https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2149535.Blood_Noir
Welcome to the Death of a Series Once upon a time there was a girl. She liked to read. A lot. She especially liked to read about books with paranormal alternate realities in them because the real world had lost its magic to things like “Reality” TV, male-dominated debates about women’s reproductive rights and vacuous celebrity worship. One day she stumbled upon a book titled Guilty Pleasures and though both the title and the cover seemed rather cheesy she figured she’d give it a try. Enter one
Enter one imperfect, stubborn, narrow-minded but somehow highly lovable main character named Anita Blake.The girl had never met such a bad ass chick.
The necromancer's mind began to open, just a little, but it was enough that the girl could see the character growth and could tell that there was more to this MC than the tough outer layer she’d been shown.
Three books later the love triangle ended in such a way that the girl began to get nervous.
By book 12 I wondered what happened to that character progression I had so looked forward to.
If Hamilton wants to improve the erotic portions of her work, she should provide more details to fire the readers' imagination.
Lack of more personal details and more imaginative sex, drags down the erotic sections of the book as it has with previous books.
How many people superslut Blake can perform with to save everyone is too cliché, as we all know that is the only way Anita can save the day anymore.Excluding the unimaginative erotic portions of the book, the story was a nice piece on Jason.
As in the last few books, the Mother of Darkness makes some appearances and Anita goes in superslut mode.
Part of the problem might be her "die hard" fans that won't hear any bad critique, and keep telling her to write the sloppy mess the Anita Blake series has become.
Working in a library I can tell you this, her holdings for the new book are sad, only five.
As compared to only three Blake books ago on release week it topped over forty.Don't even get me started on the graphic novels.UPDATE (1-22-09):Okay, I'm trying to read this again.
I'm in chapter 6 and the thought has occurred to me to edit the book to my liking.
Seriously, this book advances the overall plot in the Blake oeuvre not at all.
I used to love the dark atmosphere the early books created, but more and more, this series reads like transcripts from a sex addict's boring therapy sessions.
(The fact that she over-identifies with Anita has been obvious since one compared the author photo to the character's physical description in the very first book, but this trend has also gotten worse as time goes on.) One more petty thing that bugged the heck out of me this time around - all the characters took to saying "like" a lot, and it was punctuated incorrectly EVERY TIME.
Or, for Anita and company, like soooo two stars.ETA 2 (last time, I swear): This is a response I posted to a review that assumed that those of us that are critical of the book are prudes and should just stop reading if we hate the books so much (you know, the typical "troo" line of thinking):"I don't think it's fair to call fans disappointed with the series "prudes" or "whining wankers." I'm personally a fan of romance and erotica, so the sex isn't the issue for me.
They continue to expand exponentially, often taking control of those around her, and no one, least of all Anita herself, even THINKS to try to find a way to get rid of them.She continues to be the same hypocrite, rude, sexist, narcissist, who still hasn’t gotten over the fact it’s OK to want sex, she has been in the last 15 books:“And you just made all of your old friends think that I would allow any boyfriend of mine to ignore me for an hour as he was pawed by old lovers.”It’s not OK if you cheat on me.
During the uproar, Marmee Noir the momother of all vampires makes another play at waking from her millennium-old sleep (which she's been doing for the last 3 books now???) and causes trouble for Anita by trying to possess her.What to expect: more campy self-revelations by Anita as told from the p-of-v of multiple, fawning male studs, boring it-takes-me-three-chapters-to-write-this-scene sex, and another attempt by the author to villify Richard.
Blood Noir is one of my favorite books in the Anita Blake series.
I guess I’m just a wee bit tired and bored of Richard walking into the room and throwing a little hissy fit.The anger that rolls through Anita every time he makes her heart ache is astounding.There, a little more emotion.
Anger was so much better than the other emotions running through me-emotions so awful I didn’t want to look at them, let alone feel them.Some insight to our wonderfully funny and full of smiles Jason ..“I’ve always liked watching people, but then once I thought I’d be an actor.
I hate to begin a critique of a book I am trying very hard to be impartial about with snark, but sometimes I just can't help myself.Ok, game face.Hamilton has taken a lot of flak for what her series has become and I am not in any way an apologist.
I think it would have been better as a novella, because the stuff crammed into the middle about Marmee Noir (the aforementioned progenitor) is kind of haphazard and left largely unresolved.In what I think is a first for Hamilton, Anita's two-day sex binge is actually done 'offscreen'.
I really hate the lengths to which Hamilton has gone through to vilify Richard, Anita's long-estranged love interest.
If you liked the first 5 books of the Anita Blake series, thought the next 5 were going downhill somewhat & thought the next 5 descended into romance & page counts, then you feel about the series as I do.
This was the worst book I've read in the past couple of years.
I think Hamilton is just tired.Finally, I got to the last chapter which could have been a good book - should have been the book, with all the wasted pages beforehand edited down to a couple of chapters - at most.
I loved the first books but I can't bear to read another.
Because there is no group of supernatural creatures in this world that don’t have special sex powers.Consent being considered highly unnecessary in these books, the weretiger orgy happens while Anita, the tigers and Jason are all whammied by magic, unable to resist and afterwards can’t even remember what they did to each other except that it lasted for over a day.
Did she forget where she left off in "The Harlequin?" WTF?This book is a repetitive, disappointing, 340 page, meaningless stroll with Jason.
Then I stumbled upon the Merry Gentry series,and I thought DAYMN!
Those who have read Merry's story knew how it began, and expected it to progress.
Anita's declined, as the plot we expected wasn't there anymore.
The talent that began this series was BACK, and I couldn't wait for Blood Noir to be released.
She made me wait a year for Jason fluff?
Really?Needless to say, if you want to read the book you can find it on ebay, real cheap.
As the novel progressed, I calmed down and finally felt like I was easing into the swing of things and while I was slightly annoyed by the look-a-like cousin kafuffle that resulted with Keith Summerland and the lack of any concrete reason that there was anything for Anita and Co. to be truly concerned about, I felt myself thinking, "okay, maybe there are 3 stars in here somewhere, if only Hamilton would just remember her plot and not let the--" Ok, forget it.
This one is my favorite book so far.I have loved Jason since the beginning, there has always been something about his smiles, his comments, the way he does things that has driven me crazy.
Once they got there I thought it might just be a trip down memory lane, kind of like Micah's book, but I was so surprised with what happened in this one!!!I absolutely loved the hospital scene when Anita first meets Jason's family.
Nemůžu. Uvěřit. Že. Jsem. To. UDĚLALA.hahaha.. konečněAnito Blakeová, polib mi moji krásnou dupu! Už tě prostě číst nebudu. Slyšíš? NEBUDU. Už na to nemám. Už nechci. Říkám ti NE!*vyplazuje jazyk a skáče hrdostí do stropu* Je to tak osvobozující. *Ale těch prvních pár dílů... stejně miluju.
I think Laurell said it best on her MySpace when someone asked her what the book was about: "BLOOD NOIR is about friendship and love, and telling the difference even when the boundaries are pretty blurred by conventional standards...""BLOOD NOIR taught me, and Anita, that we didn't know all that much.
That, though Jason seemed like an open book, in fact, he'd kept most of his past hidden, at least from Anita and me.
They are like best guy friends, so maybe Nathaniel knew more, but neither of the men shared it with Anita.
Tohle bylo špatné na tolika úrovních, že to ani nejde popsat.
Nic z toho, co dělali nedávalo smysl...Osobní poznámečka: Jestli Anitě došlo až teď, jaký dopad v úpíří komunitě má její chování na J-C postavení, tak je ještě blbější, než jsem si myslela.Tohle by bylo na 1 hvězdičku, jenomže jak tomu můžu dát 1 hvězdičku a přesto si přečíst další díly?
Anita je jistá úroveň nostalgie.
Něco co bylo boží, a člověk se k tomu pořád vrací, protože doufá, že to ještě trochu boží bude.
Ale naděje zjevně umírá poslední - teda, docela by mě zajímal souboj Anita versus naděje.
It’s a lot like Micah in the sense that I like getting a closer look at a character’s backstory and it forces Anita to closely evaluate their relationship, but it’s somewhat lacking in plot.
There’s a lot of hand-holding and soul-searching, which is great for character development, but after a while it’s less than compelling.The wedding and Jason’s doppelgangers make the story more interesting than simple family drama.
In terms of overall series story-arc, it’s a good development, but in terms of the novel itself, it really throws off the pace.
a plot?I've given up on Anita after almost every book since Narcissus and this is no exception.
I'm not sure if this is the one that will truly keep me away -- it's better than some of the others, really -- but dear god, I'd kill for a flipping plot.Seriously -- this is the author who could make me stay up late needing to know what happened next.
Sigh.
I have enjoyed even the later (patently ridiculous) Anita Blake books, but this one was disappointing.
There's not much story here.I cannot believe she brought Richard in yet again to enact the exact same little drama as in the last 6 or 7 books.
It's gotten to where I roll my eyes every time Richard shows up.
It's the same scene, over and over again.And she rehashes the "What if I'm pregnant?" consternation of a couple of books ago.
We've been there and done that, why again?Very little Jean-Claude in this one, which always disappoints me.
30% in and this is a horrible book. Anita is a self righteous obnoxious hypocrite. I dislike what LkH did to a character that had such promise. The last few books have been bad, so I'm not sure why this one is making me so annoyed but it is. It makes me glad I've never bought one of the author's books except secondhand.
A bit dissapointed...too much sex not enough zombies...we need some of Hamilton's old style back in play.
Sex. When your main character is a walking porn star, there's not really any room for plot.But maybe LKH get tired of writing porn.
And when there are more big fat porn scenes later on in the book, they are tastefully timed and acutally plot relevent.There is some interesting character development (or what passes for it in an LKH world.) It focuses on Jason, who is my favorite LKH-verse character after Edward.
And the moment where Anita explores her anger was such a shining LKH scene that it was like a throwback to the old days.All this is not to say that the book was not flawed.
His dad had been abusive to him thinking he was gay, which is anything but the truth.(view spoiler)[Upon arriving at his home town complications occur because Governor Summerland’s son, Keith, is to be married, and Jason looks like he could be the twin of the governor’s son.
Angry conversations with Anita pulled some of his steam out of him, but I still don’t like him.The new characters in this book were fascinating and generate a lot of interesting intrigue.
First read Feb 7, 2010: Anita discovers some new powers while helping Jason out on a family matter.
THen read in September 16, 2011.Sixteenth in the Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter erotic urban fantasy series, Blood Noir takes place in the Blue Ridge Mountains in Asheville, North Carolina.
Naturally, nothing can ever be easy and it turns out that Jason's cousins, the Summerlands, have gathered to celebrate Keith Summerland's wedding.
A cousin whom Jason so resembles that all the reporters, security, and hotel staff believe Jason is Keith.
A resemblance that makes it easy to sell to the bad guys.
I've honestly been getting a little tired of the porn aspect of this series, and while Blood Noir is steeped in sex, I enjoyed this book better than most.Blood Noir essentially centers around Anita and Jason, the werewolf.
Apparently, Jason's dad thinks Jason is gay and Anita comes along to prove otherwise.Chaos ensues as Jason is mistaken for Keith Summerland, who is wanted by some nasty people.
And Marmee Noir, the oldest vampire who is catnapping, pays Anita a pretty intense visit at the wrong time.Like I said, better than the last few Anita Blake books.
But she could stand to tone down the porn aspect just a little.OH!
There is a lot of grumbling about this book and about Laurell K.
Do they have a lot of sex?
Add to that the story line being centered around Jason rather than Jean Claude or Richard and you have the perfect mix of angry fans.
I liked the book.
I liked the book.
(Ok - in real life we generally do not sleep with our side characters...but this is a book.
A story.
Not life.)Nope - I will not diss Laurell K.
and I will not diss this book.
It's a truth acknowledged (over and over) that I should resist from writing reviews when I am listening to M.I.A( the gun round kind of eggs my badness on). [image error]Coffee does not really help either.[image error]
3.5 Stars   MINOR SPOILERS THROUGHOUT:  I liked this installment in the Anita Blake series.
There were parts of it that I really enjoyed, such as seeing Anita and Jason grow closer, but there were also parts that I found extremely annoying, such as the whole Richard part towards the end of the book.Jason and Anita have always had an interesting relationship to me.
I felt like this book developed their relationship a lot more and Jason and Anita are closer than ever.
I go into each one of the Anita Blake books for the relationship drama and I don't really expect to enjoy anything else.
As expected this was not a good book but strangely it also didn't feel like the worst, that title went to the last two Anita adventures.First of all, I could not believe the opening scene was a sex scene and it was so long I got bored and started to read only the speech and none of the descriptions.
Secondly, there was also a lot of repetitiveness of certain words and phrases mainly with sex scenes -the way the men are described and the way other marshals/cops/bodyguards react to Anita, both within the book and the last few books.Thirdly, there was barely any plot.
