https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30594.Speak_Memory
Would it have been so hard to come down with herpes and depression like everyone else?Needless to say, Speak, Memory is one of the most brilliant autobiographies ever written, and I’m just delaying the moment when I throw my panties on the stage along with every other reviewer here.
Games, magic, deception: it all sounds like an elaborate Easter egg hunt.
Either way, it’s something I grew out of a long time ago.
Nabokov’s prose is a bit less of a simplification than anyone else’s, that’s all.
Meaning, he comes as close to honouring the riotous profusion of experience as any human being is likely to get.There.
If I hadn’t known that already, I’d have learned it when I reached the end of Speak, Memory.I’d begun my review of the book when I was about half way through reading it, something I often do, preferring to jot down thoughts and impressions as I read in case I've forgotten the significance of this or that point by the time I've reached the end.
But I'll get my own back soon.edit: 25th November: On page 196 of The Gift, a character accuses the narrator, Godunov (who resembles Nabokov more than a little), of being...a joker!
They reveal the spiral of the patterns and, through some intricate, unexplainable osmosis, are brought together to form the most remarkable story that shines with a timeless beauty, a kind of blinding revelation of the miracle of existence, akin to the ineffable light of a primordial deity.Nabokov plunges into depths of time and becomes tenderly aware of it.
This book really is like our memory - incidental, unmotivated, fickle.
There are parts of this memoir that I absolutely loved and there are parts, mostly later in the memoir and in Nabokov's life, that I found more difficult to embrace as a reader.
In one descriptive passage of the arrival of a new tutor coming to the estate by sleigh in the winter, Nabokov's worlds collide."Very lovely, very lonesome.
With that caveat, I recommend it to others who enjoy reading memoirs.This is a strong 4 (possibly a 5 but for a few chapters I found less compelling).
If you read quotes from Speak, Memory you will know that it has words of sublimity, knowing truth about beauty and art.Here is one that I have loved for years:But then, in a sense, all poetry is positional: to try to express one's position in regard to the universe embraced by consciousness, is an immemorial urge.
I don't know how many reviews of his works I've read over the years that were almost too jealous to be admiring that he could write as he does in his second language.
Δεδομένου μάλιστα πως πλήττω αφόρητα ιδίως με την παράθεση στιγμών από την παιδική ηλικία, αποφεύγω να αναλώνω πολύτιμο χρόνο σε κάτι που εκ προοιμίου θεωρώ ανούσιο.
Το αποτέλεσμα είναι πως το κείμενο που διαβάζουμε περισσότερο αποτελεί ένα ακόμα σημαντικό έργο του Nabokov και λιγότερο μια επιλεκτική αιτιολόγηση παρελθουσών καταστάσεων και εκ των υστέρων σκέψεων όσον αφορά τα πεπραγμένα.
Ένα ακόμα στοιχείο, το οποίο αφορά όμως περισσότερο τους οδεύοντες προς τη μέση ηλικία (δεν ξέρω γιατί θα μπορούσε να αφορά τους νεότερους, πλην μόνο από εγκυκλοπαιδικής απόψεως) είναι εκείνο της σημασίας της Μνήμης, άρα και του Χρόνου, του οποίου το πέρασμα βιώνουμε ως ανάμνηση.
This is, in my opinion, Nabokov's best work.
The autobiography as a form suits Nabokov perfectly, as his novels are never so much about plot or 'big ideas,' just the intense poetic possibilities of language itself.
So be forewarned, there is almost no useful information here.
You may learn a thing or two about pre-Revolution Russia, a scrap of detail about his encounters with Joyce in Paris, or some tidbits about butterfly hunting, but really there's nothing to be learned, no story, no clues to why he wrote 'Lolita' or whatever.
What you get is the greatest prose artist of the 20th Century at his finest.
ولا يحتوي الكتاب فحسب على رؤية ناباكوف حول الذاكرة، والشوق، والحنين، والمنفى، والوطن، واعادة صناعة الماضي والهوية.
بل أنه يحتوي على بعض آراء ناباكوف الغريبة والفريدة حول مواضيع مثل فكرة الزمن والوقت والخلود، يقول ناباكوف :“I confess I do not believe in time.
I like to fold my magic carpet, after use, in such a way as to superimpose one part of the pattern upon another.
It is like a momentary vacuum into which rushes all that I love.
(And this is a person born in Russia, writing in English!) The word "genius" seems to come up a lot when people speak of Nabokov.
Having read this, I now understand.It took me some time to become used to the way he writes.
Knowledge of French does not hurt either (possibly an offshoot of his indifference to making his point accessible are the many untranslated French sentences).I found the discussion of his aristocratic pedigree a bit taxing at times, but he treats it all somewhat lightly so it is manageable.In all, I really could not ask for more from a book.

ve özgün, nabokov’un eşsiz üslubuyla işlenmiş: nabokovca.övgüler düzmek dışında, yazarın ilk hatırlarından yaklaşık kırk yaşına kadar olan hayatından izler, daha doğrusu tablolar-sahneler taşıdığını söyleyeyim bu otobiyografinin.
“zamana inanmıyorum,” diyen nabokov, belki inanamayan nabokov, böyle büyük bir kırılmayla bakıyor geçmişe ve “sanatın lambasıyla” elbette.
elbette konuş hafıza okura hayat dersleri vermiyor, yazarın anlaşılması zor eserlerine ışık da tutmuyor.
öyle bir kitap değil konuş, hafıza.
ama nabokov özelinde söylemek istediğim son bir şey var: konuş, hafıza nabokov’un romanlarının gücünü-güzelliğini-büyüklüğünü tartışmamakla birlikte, genellikle nabokov’un kişiliğine bağlayarak uzak-mesafeli-soğuk ya da suya sabuna dokunmaz bulan, benim de uzun süre aralarında bulunduğum okurlar için bir yanılgıyı fark etme kitabı olabilir.
Suddenly all your life so far seem so mundane and banal, a new world of tender mellowness opens - you assimilate it, drown and resurrect in it, live its sublimity, you become the book.
It seems as though you were waiting all your life for this moment, this juncture, this awakening, it is the beginning of a new journey.
You realise you can still be happy reading and rereading only this one book for the rest of your life.
I’ve fallen in love with a life I can never possess, with places that I can never see, with feelings that I am struggling to experience.
One of the greatest literary autobiographies ever - a model for how to do it. My favourite anecdote: when he talks about how cold it was in his student room, he denies the rumour that the water in his toothmug froze solid during the night. Just a crisp layer of ice on the top, that he broke with his toothbrush...
There is the horror of hearing his father might have died in a duel, the joy of butterfly collecting - always a passion throughout his life – his early attempts at writing poetry and his final leaving of Russia after the revolution.Mostly, though, what we get are little snippets – beautifully written – of a world that has long gone, but which can see through the eyes of our narrator.
I think it is an important memoir and one which paints a portrait of a certain era and way of life which the author obviously missed, but recalled with love.
"Da allora in poi, per parecchi anni, finché scrivendo un romanzo non riuscii a liberarmi di quella feconda emozione, ho continuato a equiparare la perdita del mio paese alla perdita del mio amore." Non ho trattato bene questo libro. Sono stato cattivo nei suoi confronti. L'ho iniziato verso la fine dello scorso anno scolastico, poi l'ho ripreso verso la fine di questo e infine oggi l'ho concluso. È un libro meraviglioso, non c'è dubbio. Tuttavia la sua pesantezza lo rende una lettura di nicchi
Non ho letto nient'altro di Nabokov, nemmeno la celebre Lolita (che ho comunque acquistato tempo fa).Non ha senso fare un riassunto di un'autobiografia, quindi mi limiterò a fare qualche commento del tutto personale sugli avvenimenti che descrive l'autore.Vorrei cominciare con questo lungo passo:"Ogni qualvolta comincio a pensare al mio amore per qualcuno, ho l'abitudine di tracciare immediatamente dei raggi che vanno da quel sentimento d'amore - dal mio cuore, da un tenero nucleo personale - a punti mostruosamente remoti dell'universo.
Probably one of my favorite autobiographies to date (beaten only perhaps by the Education of Henry Adams).
Realistically, it is 4.56 stars given the narrative gaps (most were written as individual pieces for Atlantic Monthly, the New Yorker and Harpers).
The section on butterflies (Chapter 6), his Russian education (Chapter 9), and his portrait of his mother (Chapter 2) were absolutely AMAZING.
It is interesting to think of Nabokov writing these in English in Massachusetts from his Russian memories and then translating them in the 1950s back into Russian and then using the Russian version to edit a new edition in 1966.
I just prefer his fiction. I understand that this is one of the most important autobiographies/memoirs ever written, but I fail to see why. I admit that Nabokov's "poetic prose" really shines through, at certain times; however, on the whole, I found the narrative voice to be frustrating, pompous, and oppressive.
How wrong Nabokov was in claiming that the music gene had skipped him! His prose is nothing if not music.
So I feel like even though 3.5 stars is not a bad score, anything less than 5 stars is an insult to the incredible reputation this has built up in my mind (as well as the formidable expectations of said recommenders).In a way, I can totally see why people love him so much.
Nabokov is never cruel enough in his economy, his flourishes take too long, and by the time he lands that final punch, it feels overdone, like a rubbery egg.
Maybe Flaubert, then, whose sentences are also beautiful in a certain traditional way, but whose economy and clarity constantly stuns and surprises with layer upon layer of psychological subtlety and humor.
Vladimir Nabokov's Speak, Memory neither has that sorry circumstance of being a born in dirt-poor Irish family nor being a witness to a tragic love story between two people of different religions.
It seems that in Russia during that time (1899 to 1920's), children of rich Russians were tutored at their homes prior to entering gymnasiums which was the equivalent of American high-school up to 2nd year of college.I also enjoyed looking at the pictures properly interspersed in the right sections of the book.
Unfortunately, this memoir only covers up to the time that he was leaving Europe for U.S.A. Nabokov wrote Lolita when he was already in the US (it was published in 1955).
One thing is certain, I won't read it for the sake of my eyesight; the above Vintage one having then been my better option has satisfied me with its larger fonts and happier reading.Another thing impeding my attempt on this memoir is the way he wrote and how he used English words like native speakers in his short stories and some novels I read with arguable enjoyment and understanding; in short, he has wonderfully penned his works via his unique writing style and typically dramatic vocabulary in which I rarely find in other contemporary writers.
A me la prosa memorialistica di Nabokov, nel suo scandagliare allucinato e intenso il ricordo, fa pensare agli scorci urbani di Richard Estes o alle nature morte di Ralph Goings, col loro iperrealismo vetroso, la luce d’un’intensità delirante, così stagliati e a fuoco perfetto da risultare irreali, da ferire lo sguardo: Nabokov possiede un senso tattile della rimembranza, ne restituisce un’immagine che è assieme figura e oggetto da toccare avidamente; tutto in lui è al contempo visione, odore, suono, realtà solida che si avverte presente fra le dita.
This re-Englishing of a Russian reversion of what had been an English re-telling of Russian memories in the first place proved to be a diabolical task, but some consolation was given me by the thought that such multiple metamorphoses, familiar to butterflies, had not been tried by any human before.The book covers the years from his birth in 1899 to 1940, when he, his wife and son immigrated to the US.
I am writing what I have listened to in the audiobook version of this book, which is well narrated by Stefan Rudnicki, in a deep tone perfect for Nabokov’s words.
VN regularly travelled, as a boy, from their St Petersburg home, later the Danish Embassy, to their Villa in Vyra, or yearly to Biarritz and Weisbaden, Paris and Berlin; then, with the Revolution, he and his brother, draft age, were the first sent, his mother and three younger siblings a couple days later, to Ukraine.
The first chapter he wrote was also the first published in America, and the next widely circulated was “First Love,” here Ch.12, on Tamara—a name that has similar sounds to his real girlfriend, from the town near the Vyra Villa, and his Uncle’s grand abandoned estate where they often met.
Apart from the stuff I mentioned in the reading updates I'd like to bring to the fore, from amongst the embarrassment of riches that is Speak, Memory, the following:In speaking about his love for composing "fairy chess" moves, which he describes as a poethico-mathematical endeavor, Nabokov makes the following description of this cerebral pastime:Deceit, to the point of diabolism, and originality, verging upon the grotesque, were my notions of strategy; and although in matters of construction I tried to conform, whenever possible, to classical rules, such as economy of force, unity, weeding out of loose ends, I was always ready to sacrifice purity of form to the exigencies of fantastic content, causing form to bulge and burst like a sponge-bag containing a small furious devil.This seems to me as good a description as any, not of his strategy in composing chess moves, but of his strategy in composing novels.
I could not have asked for a better reading experience.
In fact, butterfly catching—the act of sneaking out of the house, net in hand, to chase flighty fairies through fields, in order to kill them and pin them in a display case—forms a handy metaphor for the artistic process: find the parts of life that are both beautiful and elusive, then capture, kill, and display.Also revealing were Nabokov’s descriptions of composing chess problems.
I would’ve loved it if Nabokov included some descriptions of his writing process, of how he liked to work, how he decided on a story, how he developed his prose style.
(Of course, his mother loved him, he was favorite both of mother and father, the eldest surviving child, heir in the end not to wealth or property or title but surely to the most elegant of intellectual fortunes.)But never, not for a page or a paragraph, was I dulled into the fast skimming reading I undertake sometimes in novels or histories; every sentence could be lifted and appreciated as its own art.
Lists of exiled Russian writers, histories of the early twentieth century told from every vantage point, of course, Pushkin, and surely, Nabokov's works themselves, are to follow in an ever-branching reading list.
Ten stars. A work of art.
Both Nabokov and Tolstoy came from Russian nobility, so their early years were characterized by a loving family, live-in tutors and nurses, and the beauties of the Russian countryside.The book continues past the Russian Revolution to the beginning of the author's wanderings in France, Britain, and Germany up until 1939.
The book which has eclipsed almost the entirety of my graduation, the favorite gospel from my Personal Jesus.
If I were a cynical person, I'd say that Nabokov is at his very best when writing about himself (Sorry, I'm still recovering from my reading of Bend Sinister).
Behind the words, however, there persisted in me an intermittent sensation of being slightly repelled by parts of Nabokov's personality.
I'm slightly overstating it here and making more of it than necessary, but it's a part of his personality that I definitely felt coming through in the writing, and it prevented me from really connecting with him on a personal level.But let not the above paragraph dissuade you from reading Speak, Memory.
Like the ardent lepidopterist he is, Nabokov pins beautiful memories to the page: moments in time so saturated with colour and intricacy it’s as if the reader was there as witness.
I watched, too, the familiar pouting movement she made to distend the network of her close-fitting veil drawn too tight over her face, and as I write this, the touch of reticulated tenderness that my lips used to feel when I kissed her veiled cheek comes back to me—flies back to me with a shout of joy out of the snow-blue, blue-windowed (the curtains are not yet drawn) past.Nabokov shouts with joy throughout the memoir.
I feel as though I could almost stop reading memoirs now.Note: I selected the wrong version of Speak, Memory.
A gift of a book, a beautiful memoir.Whenever I start thinking of my love for a person, I am in the habit of immediately drawing radii from my love - from my heart, from the tender nucleus of a personal matter - to monstrously remote points of the universe.
I have to have all space and all time participate in my emotion, in my mortal love, so that the edge of its mortality is taken off, thus helping me to fight the utter degradation, ridicule, and horror of having developed an infinity of sensation and thought within a finite existence.

I did not like the autobiography so it gets one star, but because it was exquisitely written it gets another star to boot.
But that doesn't make the book good or very much fun to read.
It was similar to orally having to swallow some very disgusting-tasting medicine.
And I am really not sure why I had such an aversion to this work of genius (or so they say).
There might be something triggering a feeling for me against those of us who are entitled, or think we are, who carry a mantle of higher power not elected but dictated to us instead.
Yet his descriptions of his father are tinged with a hint of tragedy at his untimely (and accidental) assassination at the hands of a Soviet gunman-Nabokov had a similarly close relationship to his mother and reading ‘Speak, Memory’ the reader begins to understand his dislike of Freud, with his distasteful theories of sexuality in childhood (for Nabokov the most magical period in a person’s life) and its desire to homogenize the experience of each individual human being so that it fitted in with the fantastical fantasies of a neurotic.
Scriere placuta si lina, care prin frumusetea descrierilor m’a plimbat prin locuri n_e_m_a_i_v_a_z_u_t_e dar, uite asa, i_m_a_g_i_n_a_t_e :) Am colindat paduri, am fugit pe plaja impreuna cu Colette si Floss, am simtit mainile aspre ale lui Mademoiselle, am simtit din plin zborul fluturilor, iar adierea vioaie a aripilor acestora razbate de’a lungul intregii autobiografii, nu numai in capitolul alocat acestei pasiuni.
De’a lungul acelei plaje indepartate, peste luciul nisipului de seara din trecut, in care fiecare urma de pas se umplea incet cu apa luminata de apusul soarelui, se aud, se aud tot mai aproape, ecoul si vibratia strigatului: Floss!
He has an absolutely amazing vocabulary which he uses totally un-pretentiously and beautifully. I loved the way that he took forever to tell stories and never really got around to saying anything, and his dry sense of humour was great, as in the game of reminiscences about the writer that he played with his friend, and his descriptions of his tutors. It was really touching the way he adresses his wife in the writing (although without really giving any information about her).
Напоените със слънце брезови листа поразяваха погледа с прозрачността на светлозелено грозде; елховите иглици кадифено изпъкваха върху синевата и тази синева бе толкова наситена, че успях да се насладя на подобна едва много години по-късно в планинската борова зона на Колорадо.”„Прозорците бяха затворени заради горещината и смисълът на преговорите не можеше да се разбере: селяните вероятно искаха разрешение да окосят или да отсекат нещо и ако татко веднага се съгласеше, както често се случваше, говорът се надигаше отново и по старинния руски обичай яките ръце разлюляваха тате и го подхвърляха няколко пъти.
Absolutely enchanting. After 'Lolita,' of course, this is where you look see what Nabokov could do with English prose.
Stunningly good on every page. One of those books I read slowly trying to make it last.
His writing can be hilarious at times – the bit where he met the Nobel Prize winning Russian author in a Paris restaurant cracked me up.The only thing I didn't like were the sections on lepidoptery (of course Nabokov uses this word instead of 'entomology' or 'butterfly/moth collecting').
I find butterfly collecting a bit sick, and I'm kind of glad we have Pokémon Go these days, to satisfy that bizarre urge some kids have to collect (and kill) living things.That being said, he still writes about everything in such a beautiful way.
I catch myself wondering whether, during the years I knew her, I had not kept utterly missing something in her that was far more than her chins or her ways or even her French - something perhaps akin to that last glimpse of her, to the radiant deceit she had used in order to have me depart pleased with my own kindness, or to that swan whose agony was so much closer to artistic truth than a drooping dancer's pale arms; something, in short, that I could appreciate only after the things and beings that I had most loved in the security of my childhood, had been turned to ashes or shot through the heart." Now THAT'S 5* writing folks!
Nabokov writes like no other.
And when I say this, I also mean that no one else could get away with writing like him.
The beauty in which he recalls his fiercely impressive family is with the special nonchalance of someone who knows what they're saying is interesting - and it all is.
He recalls the facts beautifully, which is why this isn't like other autobiographies.
To read Speak, Memory is to read beyond the history of a family, and into a realm of artful retrospect.
Though Pale Fire still stands as my favorite of his, Speak, Memory makes me appreciate Nabokov more as a writer.
