https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10194514-pushing-the-limits
I stopped at page 16. 16!What he says: "Her blue cotton shirt dipped below her beige tank." What I say: What she says:“Oh, God,” I moaned. She thought I was doing “it” with him.What I say: What he says: "Her silky red hair had glimmered in the moonlight."What I say: What she says: "Wow. I thought I was the only person at this school faking every moment."What I say: What he says:"I loved the sound of her sweet voice. Part angel, part music."What I say: What he says: "Damn, she smelled like cinnam
I stopped at page 16.
16!What he says: "Her blue cotton shirt dipped below her beige tank."
What I say: What she says:“Oh, God,” I moaned.
She thought I was doing “it” with him.What I say: What he says: "Her silky red hair had glimmered in the moonlight."What I say: What she says: "Wow. I thought I was the only person at this school faking every moment."What I say: What he says:"I loved the sound of her sweet voice.
Part angel, part music."What I say: What he says: "Damn, she smelled like cinnamon and sugar fresh out of the oven."What I say: So yeah.
“Fuck me and the rest of the world, I was in love.”— Pushing the Limits, Katie McGarry And I'm in love to, I FUCKING LOVE THIS BOOK! I FUCKING LOVE NOAH.AND I FUCKING LOVE KATIE McGARRY! I have officially read this only about, OH, a MILLION times. How do you get sick of a book that draws you in from the first page every single time. There's so many different views of this book it's like reading a new story each and every time I read it. 'His lips curved into a sexy smile and I became lost in hi
There's so many different views of this book it's like reading a new story each and every time I read it.
“I love you, Echo Emerson.”I whispered the words as he brought his lips to mine.
How do you think I’m doing?”I laughed and I knew I was going to love every minute of this book.
I love the way the author split Noah and Echo's POV's.
Echo was becoming essential, like air.She opened her mouth, her tongue seductively touching mine, almost bringing me to my knees.
Noah <3"Luke used to give me butterflies. Noah spawned mutant pterodactyls." This was such a sweet and heartbreaking story, with both MCs having some serious problems, but I still loved it <3I am not a fan of angst and drama, and there is both here, but not too much, so I don't think it'll be a problem for anyone else :DDA few things you need to know:1. What the book is aboutA bad boy and a troubled girl are forced to work together to solve their problems, and in the meantime they manage t
What the book is aboutA bad boy and a troubled girl are forced to work together to solve their problems, and in the meantime they manage to fall in love <3Echo is trying to remember a repressed memory from the night she almost died, and Noah is doing whatever he can to get custody of his brothers.I won't say more cause you just have to read to find out :)Anyway, there are both POVs in this book, and I really love that :))I'll talk more about Noah and Echo in their sections :)2.
Holy Sh—Oh, my---What the---For the love of---Sweet baby--- MOTHERFUCKER!  This book was fabulous/great/wow/fan♦freaking♦tastic!*deep breath*I would just like to go on the record and THANK Katie McGarry for creating Noah Hutchins. And for creating a book that held me captive until the wee hours of the morning. Holy SHIT! Your book’s good, ma’am.So without further ado… Allow me to introduce you to “Pushing the Limits”… ;) ♦ This is a story about a boy with a past in ashes who fell in love with a
It doesn’t matter that at one time in his life, smiling was once just a reflex kind of thing.All he has now are girls who only seem to remember his name when they’re moaning it; a family who consists of two friends he would do anything for; an annoying high school counselor who for some unknown fucking reason, believes in him; two younger brothers with smiles that he would literally move heaven and hell for; and…An irritatingly gorgeous red-head tutor who has scars on the outside that perfectly match the ones he carries on the inside.And despite everything, Noah can’t help falling in love with her.
Normal. She wanted normal and so did I.  If I could summarize this book with one (okay, technically two) sentence, that would be the one. Nothing else needs to be said. You can figure out from one simple sentence that this is a book about two people who have lost everything and are trying to figure out how to get normalcy back in their lives. 3.25 stars. If I was judging Pushing the Limits solely based on the journey of the characters and how they struggled to reach their own personal victorie
Both Noah and Echo were inspirational characters who learned not only how to work on themselves, but also learned how to encourage each other to trust again.What lost me (just a little) was the execution.There were several trigger words and generalizations which had me cringing :1.
Assuming that someone is on a bad path because they smoke weed or drink socially, and therefore that person needs to expel this from their life immediately, otherwise their entire future is in danger.
He didn't stop wanting sex, even though he let Echo have her space when she needed it.
When I rate a book three stars, it usually means indifference, that the book was neither especially good or bad. That I probably won't even remember it in a few days time. With Pushing the Limits that is not the case, it's more that I feel the positives and negatives equally balance each other out and the overall book falls somewhere in the middle of the rating scale because of it. I will say, though, the issues that I felt sure I'd have with it were not the reason I gave it such an average rat
Plus an extra shot of it because of the bad boy/good girl cliche we are promised.
Noah is what I mean when I say "bad boy", he is fun and likes to break a few rules, but he always respects Echo's wishes, he is kind to her and - you won't believe it - actually leaves her alone when she metaphorically gives him the finger.To get down to the real problem, it is quite simply: the angst.
McGarry is a good enough author to realise that she needs to give her characters issues and imperfections (especially if they're going to be of the cliche variety).
4.5 starsA heart-wrenching YA book about two broken teens struggling to put the shattered pieces of their lives back together and finding love along the way.
For people like me and Echo, our souls contained more scar tissue than life.”  From the first line of this book, I was drawn right into Echo’s world.
Every SINGLE one of his scenes with his little brothers made my cry (a lot) and just made my heart ache with wanting them to be happy.Both Noah and Echo are intensely angry and miserable in their lives, honestly it was hard to say which one made my heart break more at times.
When trying to find a way to describe this book – I settled on this: Pushing The Limits is the closest I’ve ever gotten to reading a Machetta book.For anyone familiar with me or Machetta – that is the highest praise I give.Very rarely does a book make me laugh and cry at all – let alone multiple times. But that’s what this book did. And really, what the hell kind of badass reviewer am I when I’m brought to sniveling, snotty tears by a book? Noah and Echo don’t talk at school. Noah is the atypica
Noah was placed in a series of very bad and neg­li­gent homes while his broth­ers were placed with a cus­tody fam­ily who restrict his access to his sib­lings and are try­ing to adopt them.Echo’s father and his new wife (Echo’s old babysit­ter) have a very rocky, unhealthy rela­tion­ship.
He is con­trol­ling, the new wife is preg­nant and Echo is des­per­ate to try and make con­tact with her mother (who has been cut off from con­tact by Echo’s father).At least – that is how it looks at the begin­ning.
And it’s very easy to think that these adults in Echo and Noah’s lives are hor­ri­ble.
This is one of those times when I feel like I'm reading a totally different book than everyone else is. This just isn't my kind of realistic fiction, my kind of romance, or my kind of boy. Meh.
After his parents died in a fire, the three brothers have been in the foster system and Noah wants nothing more than his family back together.
Covering a lot more ground than the love story itself, we get intense, emotional ups and downs that just about gave me heart palpitations.
While reading, I quickly lost myself in this incredibly enchanting story, experiencing a multitude of complex emotions.
Combining love and loss, friendship and family, the unfairnesses of life and the determination to overcome them, Pushing the Limits is a book that is not only to be read, but cherished.
I wanted to like this book, but ultimately I just ended up feeling like I’d been caught in a stampede of drama llamas.
The treatment of several of the (abundant) issues fell flat for me – it read more like an grab for an emotional reaction than a really nuanced discussion of serious topics like mental illness and abuse.
The lack of subtlety for one (which is probably just a personal taste thing), and the reliance on over-used clichés for another.
I feel like I’ve met all of these characters before, I’ve heard the same bad-boy meets former popular girl angst too many times before.
5 Stars!**RE-READ on Audible! Loved it just as much the second time around! This was not your normal romance story... In fact, normal is one of the last words you would use to describe Noah, Echo or their relationship. Echo was such a strong character. She has been through so much heartache. Not only has she lost her brother Aires, the one person who she felt loved her unconditionally, but she has had a major trauma that she has not even fully discovered. It has destroyed a lot of things importa
In fact, normal is one of the last words you would use to describe Noah, Echo or their relationship.
Noah and Echo though both damaged, develop a beautiful but difficult relationship.
(hide spoiler)] her dad could be selfish at times, and very controlling, but I think he really did love Echo and want what was best for her.
I also loved Isaiah, him fixing Aires car was great and he was like family to Noah.
I especially loved the relationship between Noah and his brothers.
It was a truly beautiful story of pain, love, heartache, discovery, understanding and acceptance.
I  ADORED  this story! Seventeen year-old Echo Emerson used to be part of the popular crowd. Two years ago things changed. Her parents divorced, her babysitter became her step-mother, and her older brother Aires died in combat. But this is not the event that changed everything for Echo. Two years ago, an event she can't remember resulted in her waking up in the hospital two-days later, with injuries up and down both her arms. Injuries that left her with ugly scars, and a restraining order in pla
She has just been assigned a new therapist, one that she shares with Noah Hutchins, resident bad-boy with a reputation of one-night-stands.
Noah's dream is to get his brothers back and reunite what's left of his family.
Noah and Echo didn't realize they had so much in common.
Noah and Echo start to truly care for one another.
You think because girls swoon over you and let you into their pants on the first try that I'll follow suit.
BE WARNED, you are going to HATE Echo's parents and the self-centered step-mother, Ashley!!
Noah and his little brothers touched my heart!
That wall...that enemy is what Echo and Noah faced on a daily bases.Echo's wall was her memoryNoah's enemy was the system"So Echo's sophomore year, she's the star of the school, right?
Of course they soon start to crave each other as well.Reading about these two made me feel like i was coming in to contact with static electricity.
For people like me and Echo, our souls contained more scar tissue than life.' - Noah's inner monologueSeriously..
You instantly fall in love with Echo and Noah and their friends.
If you have not read this book READ IT!Echo- Is kind, hardworking and loving.
I love how she really cared for both Echo and Noah.
Both of them share a couple of subjects together at school but they never had a chance to be good friends until their new clinical social worker Mrs. Collins came and partnered them for tutoring sessions.This book was full of emotions, but that wasn't the only thing that made me feel compelled to the book.
I love Noahm he's a perfect book boyfriend.
Echo is also one adorable character.
. I love Noah and Echo's chemistry and their sizzling, make-out scenes but I was looking for more.
Oh my great googly-moogly. Either I'm really hormonal, or that book just made me cry a whole lot--the good kind of crying that can only happen when you're invested in the characters and you're feeling what they're feeling.So. Flippin. Good.You need to read this book. Yes, you. If you love romance, and intensity, and emotional, high stakes, this is for you.Oh, and Noah? I love you.
Every element I long for in a book was generously provided; engaging writing, broken yet lovable characters, sexual tension, angst and heartache, and finally, growth and sweet redemption.
Her eventual 'I'm worthy' epiphany pretty much had me throwing fists in the air!This story was so wonderfully constructed and the author did an amazing job in bringing Echo's mental struggle to life.
The alternating perspectives between Echo and Noah  flowed flawlessly and allowed for an in-depth understanding of both characters.
▪	 Genre/Category: Romance/New Adult▪	 Steam Caliber: Mild▪ Romance: Intense, slow build.▪	 Characters: Broken and lost, but lovable.▪	 Plot: High school setting.
Noah would rather forget the event which led to his now screwed up life and wanting nothing more than to be reunited with his brothers.
Echo wishes she could remember the event which tore her world to shreds and left endless nightmares in it's wake.Noah is known as a “stoner” by other classmates and his only relationships are one night stands.
Echo is a straight A student and only wants to be normal again so she can be in a relationship.
”I want normal, Noah.
I can think of only three books that have ever made me cry, one of which is Pushing the Limits by Katie McGarry.
So our two main characters, Echo and Noah, begin with their own agendas in mind, their own separate problems and struggles.
And I haven’t even gotten to the romance in this novel, which is one of the major themes.
Echo and Noah = HELLO CHEMISTRY.The sexual tension between the two is just about unbearable—and that’s delicious when that happens in a novel, isn’t it?
I know I started this review by saying that this novel made me cry, but it also made me laugh.
And I liked the way his relationship progressed with Echo.
I think that the story that captivated me the most was Noah's, actually.
I felt like when the writer was talking as Echo, my feelings were being more manipulated, if that makes sense.
However, I honestly loved reading each page of both Noah and Echo's journey.
That is saying a lot.When I saw that there was a second book in the series, I was PISSED.
I thought it would be a continuation of Echo and Noah's story (which, by the way, would have been totally unnecessary).
and their lives was the fighting arena...Separated they were good, but when they were together was amazing....None of them was having an easy life, but together they overstepped every obstacle that get in their way and they earn a better life....Their past broke my heart....
He never judge her, like all the others do, he never turned his eyes away when her scars are exposed and he is making a lot of efforts to help her to regain her memories....
For people like me and Echo, our souls contained more scar tissue than life.
"Because growing up means making tough choices, and doing the right thing doesn't necessarily mean doing the thing that feels good."*****You know it's a good book when you'll never look at certain things the same way.
My heart would be teared into pieces just reading certain chapters.
I love it when characters grow.Not to mention, this book does send out some really great messages, but I like feel mentioning them would be a spoiler.
Besides, not everyone get the same experience reading the same book.
Honestly, just ignore the romance and focus on the other things that this book gives you.
I'll always love my Alex Fuentes....but my heart has now found Noah Hutchins and I can't help but say, HOLY SHIT!
So she starts seeing social worker Mrs. Collins who tries everything she can to help Echo remember what happened that night that tore her family apart.
In the mean time, she tutors a boy for chemistry, who is not much different than her....Noah lost everything the night of the house fire 2 years earlier, which claimed his parents.
I grew to love her.I only liked Lila, Echo's best friend.
I loved Noah's little brothers.
The best thing about Pushing the Limits is that it had an interesting plot: Echo is dealing with the loss of her older brother, overbearing father, self-centered step-mom, bipolar mother and tenuous high school social status, while trying to remember a traumatic experience she's blacked out of her memory; and Noah, who is trying desperately to reunite what's left of his family--him and his two little brothers--after losing both parents in a house fire a few years ago, separating Noah and his two brothers, as they're placed in different foster homes.
After finishing the novel, and knowing where the author left Echo's relationship and opinion of her mother, I almost feel the mental illness was used as a cheap ploy to push the limits of this story all in the name of drama.
They've known who each other are for a while, but they have to actually be together when Echo is assigned to tutor Noah.
There is some family and friend drama, some past demons to work through, and some sweet moments...and they get a HFN ending.POV: This alternated between Echo and Noah's POV.Overall Pace of Story:  Good.
(hide spoiler)]Heat level: Low. There are some heavy make out sessions, but they never have sex.Descriptive sex: NoSafe sex: N/AOW/OM drama: Yes (view spoiler)[The h's ex tries to get back with her.
This review is posted at My Secret RomanceWhat a bittersweet emotional story. A favorite by far this year. The worst type of crying wasn't the kind everyone else could see- the wailing on street corners, the tearing at clothes. No, the worst kind happened when your soul wept and no matter what you did, there was no way to comfort it. A section withered and became a scar on the part of your soul that survived. For people like me and Echo, our souls contained more scar tissue than life. This book
For people like me and Echo, our souls contained more scar tissue than life.
She wants to be normal again and she finds it in the person she least expected to- the bad boy in school, dealing with issues as heavy as hers and also in foster care, Noah.Add in the cattiness of the students in high school, a pushy father who wants his daughter to excel, and a pregnancy by someone who Echo feels tore her family apart.
As much as it hurt to remember, I felt like I was Echo and even Noah at times and dealing with the same struggles.
When I started this book I thought it would be some kind of cliché story about a good girl and a bad boy.
They were complex and they had their own stories and problems to overcome.
I love how they helped each other and how deeply they cared for each other.
They had a great relationship.
I absolutely loved them together.
Also their family stories were very well developed.
I find it really impressive the author was able to develop her characters in such a great way in such a small book.I really liked this book.
I need to put this book down for the time being. I'm at 40% and I know this is an excellent book, but the subject matter is very serious, sad, and quite depressing. I'm in the mood for a lighter, happier read. I can tell this is one of the better young adult books written and I want to give it the change it deserves. I just need to be in the right mood to read it.
Love. Love, love, love, love, LOVE. That is all. Oh, and one word. Noah.
I’d lost and I’d won. I’d lost the dreams I had, but won new dreams.  It was way too long. I have to admit that I skipped several descriptive parts, and focused on only dialogues. Maybe I’m too old to enjoy wholeheartedly Young Adult fiction…Anyway, the novel tries to represent serious values and moral issues, such as love, trust, respect, forgiveness, sacrifice, and selflessness. It also deals with grief, drug use, hasty sex, child abuse and abandonment. But the writing is elongated, repetiti
Is this didactic writing really necessary for younger readers to understand the message of the story?Both the main characters and the secondary characters are likeable.
Echo and Noah both had serious traumas, and I really felt for them.Echo’s character develops nicely throughout the story.
The main part of the story is about that how Echo loves her mother, misses her mother, adores her mother, etc.
"One month before school lets out—she disappears.” Beth’s eyes widened and she spread her fingers out like a magician doing a trick.Isaiah nodded.
“Poof.”“Gone,” added Beth.“Vanished,” said Isaiah.“Lost.”“Evaporated.”“Gone,” repeated Beth.
Continue.”“Oh, yeah, so she disappeared,” said Beth.“Poof,” added Isaiah.Not this again.
