https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/68775.Those_Who_Love
The true story of Abigail Smith and John Adams, who met and loved and married and became leading protagonists in events which were to change the whole concept of the Western world.عنوانها: آنها که دوست دارند؛ آنان که دوست دارند؛ نویسنده: ایرویگ استون؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه جولای 2008 میلادیعنوان: آنها که دوست دارند؛ نویسنده: ایرویگ استون؛ مترجم: فریدون گیلانی؛ تهران، اساطیر، 1366؛ در چهار جلد؛ چاپ چهارم 1372؛ چاپ پنجم 1379؛ موضوع: داستان جان آدامز از سال 1735 میلادی تا 1826 میلادی و ابیگل آدامز - از سال 1744 میلادی تا سال 1818 میلادی - سده 20 ما.
I loved this book. Cannot imagine living the life of Abigail. She was John's backbone, who would have known? This book started me reading many more about the American Revolution and the founding of our country.
عالی بود.
First published in 1965, it is quickly evident that the book and its subject matter were thoroughly researched by the author, Irving Stone.
By the end of the story, I was almost glad John Adams didn't win his second term as I did not wish to devote any more time to Stone's story.
"Those Who Love" has effectively led me to need a break from John & Abigail Adams as well as from the time period in which they lived.
This is an unfortunate consequence of having read Irving Stone's book, because from what I've read previously about John & Abigail Adams, they deserved a book to be more worthy of who they really were.
Another great one from Irving Stone. I like his pro-American, pro-founding father, but honest, take on history. I learned so much about the American Revolution and the birth of the country. Felt like I was there!
I read this some time ago, but it is one of my all time favorite books. I love the purity of the love story between John and Abigail. They showed amazing resiliency in the face of difficult trials. And became one of the most influential couples to ever grace our nation.
I really enjoyed this historical novel about the birth of our nation with the central characters being John and Abigail Adams. I learned a lot, and I found their lives fascinating. John and Abigail were honorable and honest and they sacrificed much to see our democracy come to fruition. Often, their contributions went unnoticed and unappreciated. This was a great story worthy of being read.
Their letters to one another showed that John considered not just his wife, but his best friend, his intellectual equal and his greatest confidante.The book starts with the meeting of Abigail and John and their courtship in spite of her mother's initial disapproval.
Quite often she had to do her best to make ends meet while John was not paid or belatedly paid by the government for his work.
It's a well written book and I can enthusiasically recommend it to anyone interested in the life of Abigail Adams.
I absolutely adored this biography of John and Abigail Adams.
The novel was weighted more heavily toward Abigail's view of the events that surrounded their lives, which I really loved.
She was every bit as remarkable as her famous husband.
Their sacrifices for their country were not on the battlefield, but were every bit as necessary to the survival of a young nation.
It's too bad the book is out of print, because it is beautifully written and gave me a renewed respect for the founding fathers of this nation.
I highly recommend it to anyone who get their hands on a copy.
I always love getting a little truth and history with my novels, and this one doesn't disappoint. Learn more about John and Abigail Adams and discover that behind very successful man, there is a woman who loves him.
ایروینگ استون با استفاده از اسناد به جا مانده از دوران جنگ های استقلال آمریکا، زندگی جان آدامز را روایت کرده است
A biographical novel of Abigail Smith and John Adams. Set in the 18th Century creates the drama filled years when America broke away from Britain.
I learned more than I had previously known about Abigail Smith and John Adams's marriage.
Abigail had to have been a very strong woman to have been able to care for her family and the farm, etc, while John was away for years at a time.
He did love he deeply in his own way, and she adored him, he was the love of her life.I knew that their son,Charles had his drinking issues, but did not know that John Adams had disowned him.
John broke down in sobs when he learned of Charles's death.
Of course, Abigail was devastated.
From the description this book was right up my alley. I love getting that "behind the scenes" point of view that this book promised. However, it just did not do that for me. The book was dry and dragged on far too long. I didn't give it one star because it wasn't a total disaster- there were plenty of parts that were interesting to me. But the interesting parts were far outnumbered by the bland ones, and at no point was I fully engrossed.
I remembered loving this book when we read it in high school, so I gave it as a gift to my mom after she enjoyed the John Adams miniseries.
When she was downsizing for her move and planned on donating many of her books, I took this one home and finally found time to re-read it.
I liked it very much but found it a challenging read.
I guess my brain was sharper 45 years ago!
Our high school class also saw the movie "1776" as a companion piece, and both show the mutual love and respect between John and Abigail Adams.
A beautiful book about John Adams as told from the perspective of his wife, Abigail. While Stone's writing could be a bit melodramatic this particular book which draws from letters they wrote one another isn't as bad as some of his work. Highly recommended.
Really 3 and a half. I've come to the conclusion that life back then was just as crazy as life today in some ways.
A biographical novel of Abigail and John Adams. A timeless love story depicting Boston events during Abigail's life and how our country was formed.
This book should be required reading for every American today who feels as though our government is about to implode.
Reading this novel put me at ease about our future as a country.Written over fifty years ago, Those Who Love is an extremely well-researched historical novel of the relationship between John and Abigail Adams.
I found myself researching events and people the entire time I was reading, as many of these were never mentioned during my time as a student.
We think of our founding fathers as getting along and working together to create our Constitution, ensuring that everyone would live happily ever after.
I liked it enough to check out the complete book.Then I figured out why they'd left all the other stuff out.
:PIrving Stone has a gift for smooth, unself-conscious dialogue and he has his facts right regarding the actual history.
You tend to feel like he's not being entirely honest about all the people involved and trying to represent one or two of them as different from the way they really were.
I love descriptions of physical appearance, but Irving Stone will never stop speculating about Abigail's age-ing figure and softening breasts.
Actually, I don't recommend any of Irving Stone's books.
He was vulgar enough in this one, and this was a comparatively fusty subject matter.
I loved learning about hard-working, patriotic Abigail and John Adams.“‘Inside yourself you’re strong.
130“You know, Nabby, there’s mighty few pleasures in life to equal doing one’s job.
When a mind is raised and animated by scenes that engage the heart, then those qualities which would otherwise lie dormant wake into life and form the character of the hero and the statesman…’” - Abigail Adams to her son John Quincy Adams, p.
Abigail to Johnny, p.
It is not a thriller but written in a style that you want to keep on reading it.The story covers extensive details about US independence since John Adams was one of the founding fathers and had a great role to play before and after the declaration of independence.
You start reading about the life from the time when the person is not so famous and then slowly you follow his trials and successes till he becomes the president of the US.Since the book is written from the perspective of Abigail Adams, the author has tried to keep the language from those times.
It actually gives me great hope that no matter what, this nation will survive.This is just one of the passages that moved me: But could not love, when it came, be deeper and stronger for having had doubts, for having comprehended idiosyncrasies, shortcomings?
Assuredly her levelheadedness came straight out of her Puritan New England heritage; what her father called "the mature acceptance of the imperfectability of man." Compassion was the key; and a profound sense of belonging, of the rightness of their love.
The words "Love" and "God" came mystically close to being one and the same.
Well researched and well written by Stone, this novel of John and Abigail Adams, their lives, their love, their service, their struggles and their many contributions to the revolutionary spirit and of the ideals inherent in a new experiment of government by, of and for its citizens transports us straight into the earliest days of this new country.
The more I read and learn about John Adams, the more admiration I gain for he and his wife.
It started a little slow, but I found myself really getting into the history, and the relationship between John and Abigail Adams.
It's a very personal story, based upon Abigail's letters and other historical writings.
They lived through the formation of our nation, and their lives were full of sacrifice, hard work, strong beliefs and sense of service.
The road to the Presidency was hard fought and required months and years of separation, while Abigail tended to their farm, their children and their finances.
Abigail was a very strong woman, but quiet, kind and sensible.
It was interesting to meet this woman, and walk for a while in her shoes.
I guess the lower rating is because I really enjoyed the other Irving Stone book I read about Andrew Jackson and his wife.
I enjoy reading historical fiction very much since it helps me piece together what is happening in different parts of the world at the same time.
For example, in this book, even though I knew about the French Revolution and Marie Antoinette, I never realize how soon that all had occurred after the Americans sealed their freedom from England.
Nor did I realize that it was the American revolution that spurred it on.
Give unto him an understanding heart that he may know how to go out and come in before this great people; that he may discern between good and bad...""My thoughts and my meditations are with you, though personally absent; and my petitions to Heaven are that the things which make for peace may not be hidden from your eyes.
that you may be enabled to discharge them with honor to yourself, with justice and impartiality to your country, and with satisfaction to this great people, shall be the daily prayer of your A.A."
First - this book is not a light read.
It is a little dense, but I really loved learning so much about our founding as a nation and the people who made it happen.
I learned so much that I never learned in school and it really made the time period come alive for me.
I also realized, so many time, while reading this book that the founding of our nation seemed impossible and very tenuous most of the time.
Anyway, I really loved all the great historical stuff, but it can be a little slow and sometimes leaves the lay reader a little confused.
As a work categorized as "biographical fiction," I read this with the knowledge that some historical facts and statements had been altered by the fictional aspect of the author's writing.
I'll certainly read more of his books.
Of course, my opinion is slightly colored because (1) by birth I'm an Adams, (2) I love biographical works, and (3) historical fiction ranks at the top of my favorite reads.
However, that being said, I think this is a book worth reading for not only the birth of our nation but the beautiful and spirited love story between John and Abigail Adams.

