https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22205.This_Lullaby
Rather, it was a story of a girl disillusioned in love who finally allowed herself to open herself up to an honest relationship with a man.There was really nothing wrong with this story.
They were compelling and understandable and their relationships with each other felt real.
For her 18 years of age she was awfully negative and cynical and I found it very hard at times to remain in her head, because it seemed to me she never took any pleasure in anything, even in her short relationship with Dexter.
What exactly did she want from these relationships?
I’m a living testimony to this philosophy or more like a fact of life.
To Remy, the main character in the story, her lack of faith in relationships and love is reasonably based on her own personal experiences, on what she has witnessed all through her life.
This is my third book by Ms. Sarah Dessen and I’ve learned to be comfortable with her writing style much like I have learned to be cozy with that of Jennifer E.
But what made me appreciate this particular novel more than the others is the characterization which usually is the main thing that captures me in a story.
I’ve been reading a lot of children's classics lately, so it felt good to pick a young adult romance novel by a familiar author to switch atmospheres.
But still I decided to read this book nonetheless, because I trust Sarah Dessen to write engaging and meaningful stories, whatever the themes are.
I think if this had only been about Dexter wooing Remy I would have enjoyed this a lot less, but because Remy’s mind is on different things too—college, her mother, her brother, her future, her father, her friends—the romance is never overwhelming.
Remy says about her mother's marriages, "She takes on husbands the way other people change their hair color: out of boredom, listlessness, or just feeling that this next one will fix everything, once and for all." Remy likes to feel in control of things when she's got a boyfriend.
Dexter is so many things Remy could never put up with.
Everyone except Dexter, who wants it to be more than a summer thing, who has faith in their relationship.
Sarah Dessen, author of several other books including THAT SUMMER and SOMEONE LIKE YOU, does an awesome job of keeping the reader's attention throughout THIS LULLABY.
man oh man there is nothing better than a good sarah dessen binge read in the summer.this book is Especially good, because it's pret-ty different from the typical dessen.
didn't we all think that the female main characters that populate sarah dessen books just came in barely-varying flavors of Vanilla.remy is a bit o' a badass - she dates around, she smokes sometimes, she drinks underage (gasp!).
the unfortunately the equally-unavoidable romance is the most boring, uninteresting plotline in the history of the universe, but you win some you lose some you know?bottom line: WHY DIDN'T I DO THIS SARAH DESSEN REREAD YEARS AGO.
Well, this review is me eating my words: Sarah Dessen deserves all the praise she has gotten/gets.I loved it!
Remy cannot wait to get away from home and be independent; her mother and her mother’s relationships have drilled into her what she doesn’t want to become.
Thank gosh, she’s got a brother and friends who are more or less just as cynical as she is, and consequently, very accepting of her quirks.
One would think that it was Dexter that got me to change my mind, but nope..
Dexter really got her and I loved that!
And yeah, Dexter did in fact play a role in my becoming a Dessen fan.
I did *not* like this book.
Also it was annoying and got old how she would always think to herself and wonder why she felt a pang in her chest or a tug in her heart when she was dating that retarted frat boy and then would run into Dexter.
I felt like screaming BECAUSE YOU ARE IN LOVE WITH HIM YOU DUMB ASS!!!
I don't know the book, to me, was a hell of a lot more annoying than it was entertaining.
I will say that the ending was perfect and I enjoyed it but..ugh..as a whole didn't really like it all that much.
Sarah Dessen's books always leave my heart feeling so full. I loved Remy's cynicism, Dexter's optimism, the idea of taking risks and opening up yourself to every opportunity. Such a great story!
I was 18 when I read This Lullaby, and it was the first Sarah Dessen novel that I had read.
To this day, it is still my favorite book by Dessen.The main character Remy is very relatable to many teenage girls, and even to young women who remember being the way Remy is when they were in high school.
There are little twists here and there that carry the book toward the end.
It does start off a little slow, but Dessen has a way with words and really knows how to get into the minds of young women and tell their stories with honesty and innocence.
Ah, Dexter...
Life gets in the way book lovers as you know.
I thought I would be happy that I got it done because one more book read right and I could chat with my friend Erin, whom I buddy read this wonderful jem of a novel with?
<3Long review to come with time, figuring things out, (quotes (man, this book had some great ones)), and love <3 ;-) *wink ,wink* or hint, hint to those of you who have read this wonderful novel and those of you who I haven't, I definitely recommend you should!
*Buddy read with my good friend Erin.
These rules come from the fact that her mom is currently on her fifth marriage, so it is from experience that Remy knows: relationships don't last.
However, one summer Remy meets Dexter and his personality starts making her change these rules, so Remy goes on an emotional journey, trying to come to terms with the fact that sometimes it's ok to take a chance.From the description of the plot, one might think they have the story figured out, from beginning to end.
The book in general was a perfect blend of laughter and tears; most scenes had me in one or the other.Sure, the break-up-then-quick-make-up was alive and kicking, but either it simply worked better here because I was already smitten with the love story, or I'm just becoming immune to Dessen's signature moves.Either way, the novel was sweet and enjoyable and my one complaint is that the actual plot surrounding the characters and their greatness was slightly lacking.
And of course there can never be enough Remy/Dexter.
This will most likely not stop me from picking up yet another Dessen book in the future.
“Love is needing someone. Love is putting up with someone's bad qualities because they somehow complete you.”  I really enjoyed this book, I feel like it was much better compared to The Moon and More. My marathon for Sarah Dessen books is going really great and I haven't been in a Reading Slump so I am really happy! I loved this book although I was expecting more for the ending. So many people recommended that I should read this or Just Listen and those two are my favorites, along with Along f
Remy doesn't believe in long relationships and love.
Is Remy starting to understand the real meaning to relationships and love?
I know that Remy is so cold-hearted at times but people didn't understand the fact that she thought of this because of her mother.
All her friends were so funny but at times, I didn't like how they would force Remy to do things.
I loved Remy's mom and I didn't like Don at all.
That's another thing I love about Sarah Dessen, she makes the book easy to relate to and fast-paced.
To her, love means having fun with guys, making sure that they know the relationship won’t last long, and leaving before things get complicated.
Dexter may help Remy to believe in love, but he can’t fix Remy’s problem with her mother or her sarcastic attitude toward people around her.
Remy has to be the one who takes the last step if she wants to change herself.I think my most favorite part of this book is the time when Remy thinking to buy plastic ware for Dexter.
Remy, being a neat freak and perfectionist girl, wants to buy plastic ware for Dexter but she is afraid that the gesture means so much more.
Believe me, I was not that girl, but there were other elements of her personality I related to, like when she says,"The only I can't stand more than seeing something done wrong is seeing it done slowly."Preach!
Though they are all friends, they don't necessarily all get along.This Lullaby starts right after Remy graduates from high school and right before her mother's fifth wedding.
It was like a YA version of a Kristan Higgins book, aka Type A Bitches Deserve Love Too.
“Some things don't last forever, but some things do. Like a good song, or a good book, or a good memory you can take out and unfold in your darkest times, pressing down on the corners and peering in close, hoping you still recognize the person you see there.” Most people did not like reading about Remy, the heroine in this book mostly because she’s so cynical about relationships that she’s actually keeping tables and graph to when a relationship is going to end. I mean you can’t blame her for l
Like a good song, or a good book, or a good memory you can take out and unfold in your darkest times, pressing down on the corners and peering in close, hoping you still recognize the person you see there.”
Most people did not like reading about Remy, the heroine in this book mostly because she’s so cynical about relationships that she’s actually keeping tables and graph to when a relationship is going to end.
Dexter on the other hand is the complete opposite of her personality, happens to be bold, enjoys taking risk and just this happy-go-lucky guy.
http://angelerin.blogspot.com/2016/08...To be honest This Lullaby took me a bit of time to read.
Even though I read it slowly and I wasn't really in the mood for it, I still enjoyed it a lot once I got into it.
I love their romance and also I can relate to Remy in some ways.
I just really enjoyed reading a book about a guy that can see through a girl's bitchy facade and into her heart.
Plus it was a struggle to get through at times because I wasn't in the mood the genre.
#RelatableAndEnjoyableI recommend This Lullaby for YA Romance fans looking for a great pool/beach read!!#QuickToThePoolBeforeSummerIsOver!
---------------------------------------------------MY ALL-TIME FAVORITE SARAH DESSEN BOOK!Love is needing someone.
It's one of those books I pick up when I need a story that makes me laugh or when I just feel the urge to meet Remy again!
I loved how he was always cheerful and in a good mood while Remy was the total opposite.
I felt they completed each other perfectly.“Plastic ware," he said slowly, "like knives and forks and spoons?"I brushed a bit of dirt off the back of my car—was that a scratch?—and said casually,"Yeah, I guess.
Her writing is so good, her characters always really well developed and I love that she always has a family portrayal - even if one of the parents is absent, they are still a big part of the story.
What happened here, I feel, is that Remy wasn't actually that well developed.
The family portrayal and her relationship with her mom was the thing that kept me reading the most, the thing that sucked me into the story.
Her mom is such a great character and I loved reading about the two of them together.
Not that we have been really hurt before (of course I'm not sure about when you read this, but as of this writing, we're both single since birth and there's still no one on the horizon -- but only God knows what's in store for the future), but we've definitely seen enough people get hurt so much that we don't want to experience that, ever.But remember your brother's wedding?
I know that despite all the fear of getting hurt, despite everything that you've seen, heard and read, that you still want to experience the kind of love that would make you see the reason for all those love songs.I hope that we both find an ending similar to Remy's in This Lullaby.
Definitely not my favorite Sarah Dessen book, but I still enjoyed, especially the second half.
I still liked this book, but the main reason I loved some of the other Sarah Dessen books was that I found them really relatable.
This book was and sweet, but without being able to relate, I couldn't enjoy the book as much as I wanted to.The characters were fun.
I liked Dexter, apart from the beginning, when I found him a bit creepy.
The potato song might have been a bit ridiculous, but it was fun.Overall it was a really entertaining and cute read.
The ONLY likable character in the entire book was Dexter, and Remy treated him like crap on the bottom of her shoe throughout the entire book.
And knowing that some relationships don't last is hardly an excuse for treating a really nice guy who loved her like he was her freaking "Ken doll." Yes, the book was funny, and I couldn't put it down, but that was mostly because I wanted to know if Remy ever stopped being evil.
Okay, so it's obvious now that I just hate Remy.Plus, this books was SO predictable.
“You know, when it works, love is pretty amazing.
There's a reason for all those songs.”__________________________________________I love Sarah Dessen, and out of all of her books that I've read ("The Truth About Forever", "Along for the Ride", "Just Listen" and "The Lullaby"), this one is my absolute favorite.
<3"This Lullaby" is so funny and sweet.
I love Dexter.
And they write songs about potatoes.)There were so many scenes that made me laugh out loud, and I have more than 50 quotes from this book highlighted on my kindle.
This is definitely one of my all-time favorite summer books.
I absolutely recommend it!
Im a romantic person so reading 300pages about someone who doesnt believe in love is a bit depressing.
I´m a romantic person so reading 300pages about someone who doesn´t believe in love is a bit depressing.
Remy is a girl who thinks that she has this whole love thing figured out, whenever she feels that the relationship might take a step up, she dumps the guy.
I did not care for the main character, she didn't seem to learn from her mistakes and the way she used guys in her relationships, only staying with them until she thought things were getting to serious and then unmercifully dumping them for the next guy, only made me dislike her more.
I did not like Dexter, I couldn't see how he managed to be in a band with the way he acted and how he couldn't seem to keep track of important things like the electricity bill.
Probably my favorite Dessen novel.
Remy is cynical about love, but she's looking forward to heading off to Stanford with no boyfriend attached.
There's just one problem: Remy's latest guy, Dexter, isn't buying into her plan.
Not only is he a violation of her "no musicians" rule, he's also intent on sticking around.I like teen novels that don't focus on a central romance at the expense of everything else.
Remy has friends and family, and they're as much a part of the story as Dexter is.
In many ways this is a conventional teen story, but it's one that's done really, really well.
really good book...recommend it...and others by sarah dessen
I cried three times while reading the book and that is a rarity.
Big time.
Also, Sarah Dessen has a way of words that leaves you speechless.
I immediately realized how modest and incredible she is as an author and I hope to read many many many more books by her in the future.
If you are looking for contemporary books that are equally as gripping as Thrillers but in a different way, then Sarah Dessen is your author and I would highly recommend you to pick this one up!
(Source: I own a copy of this book.)18-year-old Remy is looking forward to her last summer before college, and intends to spend it dating various different boys, and just having fun.Remy has strict rules about who she will and will-not date (no musicians, no golfers), and rules about how relationships die too, she’s seen enough of her mother’s failed relationships to know that they all end eventually, and even her own father let her down.When Remy meets Dexter she has no intention of speaking to him, never mind starting a relationship with him, but Dexter has a way of turning up in places where Remy goes, and after a while they start dating.There’s something different about Remy’s relationship with Dexter though.
