https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/126503.Spellsinger
I was the only staff member living on site, no one hung out together, the lodge was a billion miles from civilisation (duh) and I only had a pushbike, all the male staff were married, and the locals were hostile (again, duh!).That was the first Christmas Day I spent without seeing another human being.
Also without eating anything, because staff meals were in the kitchen, which was (triple duh) closed for the day, because the whole lodge was closed for the day, and this had not occurred to me, literally, until Christmas morning.Well, thank fuck for Alan Dean Foster's Spellsinger series.
So, when Clothahump searches the universe between clouds of cof open minded concoctions looking for a powerful magical engineer, Jonathan-Thomas Meriweather -who until then was trying to relax about his thesis smoking pot- ends in a forest in front of a giant otter dressed as Disney's Robin Hood reject ...
what a bad trip.But wait, Jon-Tom is not a wizard, not a engineer, and don't want to be there to help some crazy turtle with a indentured bat assistant to avoid a...
I don't know why I decided to reread this but I'm glad I did.
Spellsinger is the first in a series about a law student/amateur musician, nicknamed Jon-Tom, who is transported to a world of magic and talking animals that is seriously not Narnia.
Unless Narnia is now inhabited by alcoholic, fornicating, foul-mouthed, violent creatures.Jon-Tom discovers that his fledgling musical talents have now manifested themselves as magical with the ability to conjure items via song.
Unfortunately the book stops before it really gets into the meat of why Jon-Tom was transported but it's still worth reading.
I look forward to finally reading the rest of the series.
“The strange quasi-science [he] called magic.
Or was the wizard right and science was really quasi-magic?”Dreadfully slow pace.
Still, Foster tells a good story.“This land he now found himself in was no more alien-appearing than Amazonian Peru, and considerably less so than Manhattan.”Populating his world with human-like mammals is automatically works against stereotypes.
In addition, Foster works counter expectations with an artsy male, who is repelled by the fantasy work he’s been thrown into, and an athletic female who embraces it.“The appetite for evil far exceeds that of the benign.”Many love these never-ending tales; I don’t.
Cheesy. Very strange pacing, and characters who are just a tetch too much (the Latina cheerleader "cursed with extreme beauty"? Are you kidding?)But on the other hand, there are a few gems thrown in here--I laughed out loud when Falameezar made his appearance. And the bugs, or Plated Ones or whatever, are done very well, if only because I adore when people use the word "chitin."I may read the rest of this series or I may skim it. I'm not sure yet. It was an interesting read and a great diversion on a long bus trip.
I read this when I was a kid and liekd it. But reading it now as an adult, I am less than impressed. It's got talking animals so you'd think ti was a kids book. But there is drug use and swearing. Not to mention that everyone is so violent that the popualtion of the planet shoudl have gone to nothing centuries before. Somehow the whole thing is supposed to be a political commentary of sorts, but it doesn't have any teeth to speak of. It's supposed to be funny, but I found it amusing at best, painful at worst.
Read this book when I was in middle school and absolutely loved it. Having re-read it recently, however, I've noticed several inconstancies which really detract from the enjoyment of the book (for instance, in the first book horses are non-sentient, but can talk in later books.) I still enjoyed the books my second time through, but I really wish that Foster had spent more time proofing/editing his books.
This is one of those books that I read as a teen that I totally forgot about until I saw the title. Then I was like, "SPELLSINGER! I LOVED that book!," although I can't recollect why I loved it. It's just the feeling I got when I saw the title. If a book title alone can make me smile 20+ years after reading said book then there must have been something about it worth remembering.
Or 'The movie Jim Henson never made but should have.' Anthropomorphic fantasy fun from the masterly pen of Alan Dean Foster. The Marxist dragon alone is worth the price of admission.
What an interesting book. It starts off similar to The Lion, The Witch, and the Wardrobe, but the language is definitely not for kids. It's like Sci Fi took over some Fantasy and threw in a few words here and there that are "sciencey." There's also a long-going discussion sprinkled through the book between characters about Marxism, or some of the ideals, and that was pretty entertaining because the dialogue was used to keep another character's attention. I really enjoyed it, it's a quick read.
The Chronicles of Narnia for Adults1 January 2013 The first thing that I probably have to say about this book is that it is effectively the Chronicles of Narnia for adults. While the main character is human, when he is transported to the world of Spellsinger, he is transported to a world inhabited by talking animals. Okay, not all of Lewis' characters in Narnia were talking animals, but a lot of them where. However, Narnia was originally written for children (not to say that adults don't enjoy t
The book is about how a pre-Law student at UCLA, Jon-Tom, is transported to the other world because the turtle wizard Clothahump is looking for a powerful magic user from our world, and believes that he needs the services of an engineer.
Further, I was enthralled with the character of Jon-Tom, and pretty much read the six books that had been written at the time.
The following summary was taken from the TV Tropes Wiki entry on the Spellsinger series, and slightly modified."The Spellsinger series is a fantasy series written by Alan Dean Foster, which has been described on this wiki's This Is Your Premise On Drugs page as "Narnia on an unholy combination of pot and Viagra".In the first book, Spellsinger, the hero Jonathan Thomas Meriweather, also known as Jon-Tom, is a prelaw student with pretentions to rock stardom, who is innocently smoking pot when he's abruptly transported from the University of California at Los Angeles to a weird world in which animals talk, wear clothing, and live alongside humans by the tortoise wizard Clothahump, who was searching for a great wizardly "En'geeniar" (meaning an engineer, as he was under the impression that this is the name our world gives to wizards).
A ripping good fantasy, complete with dimensionally displaced human, wise turtle, wisecracking otter and Marxist dragon.
The biggest problem with the book it stops well short of the end of the story, which continues in the next book.
Not satisfying.First read this book and it's sequel when they were written, back in the early 80s.
I don't remember how the second book ended, but I'm fairly sure the third wasn't available at the time, and I read no further.
The first six books were published over three years, so Alan Dean Foster was really cranking them out.
He published two more in the early 90s.
I can only regret that i didn't read this book when i was 13, back then it would be amazing :) now its just good fantasy with a lot of humor.There is quite standard setup where hero from our world is teleported into the land of magic, thinking and talking animals, and has to save the world etc. Although the world is rather simple it has couple of nice quirks in it. Heroes are likeable, and a plot is quite sound. (big plus for a marxist dragon character).A good book to read on a rainy afternoon.
Not my thing, although the writing was good and the world was set up well. I just didn't really like any of the characters, and the book just ended. The author set up a huge conflict, but this is clearly just the first volume. Too little happened in too long of a time. Glad it's over and not willing to slog through another book to find out what happens...don't care enough.
That wasn't bad. It takes your standard person from Earth gets pulled to fantasy land, adds a heaping helping of talking animals, sprinkles a touch of absurdity (with a Marxist dragon), and bakes the way that only 80s fantasy can.
A light easy to read fantasy adventure. With sentient animals, groovy magic, and college students this book an enjoyable ride.
Für mich persönlich nicht gerade sehr interessant, doch für den Verlauf der Geschichte vonnöten.Die Bücher stehen schon ewig in meinem Bücherregal und wurden auch damals oft gelesen (wie man auf obigem Bild vielleicht auch sieht).
Dass es noch weitere Teile gibt, hatte ich vor Jahren irgendwie nicht mitbekommen, was aber auch durch die eingeschränkte Nutzung des Internets und etlicher anderer lesenswerter Bücher wohl bei mir untergegangen ist.Ein bisschen Sorge machte ich mir schon, als ich das erste Buch anfing zu lesen.
about to be invaded by the "plated folk" who have a new evil magic brought across from our world...The setup and antics of the book are quite funny as it is a contrast of a "fantasy world" but the main character (and general tone) is straight up realistic...
Mr Foster plays with the "chosen one" in that the wizard Clothahump was searching out for a magician of our world - an En'giniear - and Jon-Tom as a part time job at the university as a janitor (sanitation engineer...) I love that Jon-Tom is just your average university student...
Then I started picking up some of his tie-in novels, and I ended up with the first two Spellsinger books, and I recently thought, what the heck, and I gave the first one a try.I was pleasantly surprised.
There are some clever turns, though the first book doesn't stand on its own as a complete story really, it is the set up for the series, and the first few steps in the quest and the first fumbling attempts of the main character, JonTom becoming a true Spellsinger (sort of a magical troubadour more or less).
Despite some emotional turmoil in my life the past few days and a tablet whose app kept malfunctioning I was able to keep reading and finish in a relatively short amount of time.I must admit that this story reads a bit like the dream of someone very high, probably because when you first meet our main character he is high.
Like most coming of age in a fantasy setting type books the main character is sometimes an annoying prick, but for all that I forgive him because he's an academic without much world hardening to him yet.
Overall, I'd say furries and fantasy fans alike would enjoy themselves as long as they are looking for fun and not something deep, so if you're considering, then give this series a go.
This reads like a blast from the past.
Anybody who reads fantasy novels will see many fantasy troupes in the series, but at the time of publication in the 80's maybe readers had a different perspective.
I wonder if Thomas was the original hapless modern male transported to a fantasy novel cliche with more martial women as companions.
Not really sure how to rate this book, it is decades after the original publication date so different times comes different expectations.
There isn't much going on, everything is a set up for next books which means 3 star rating for me.
7/14/2018 - 6/10I read the Spellsinger series way back when I was younger and bought it on the kindle when it was on sale a couple of years back.
I remember liking it quite a bit when I was younger.
It is a quick light read with some interesting concepts (anthropomorphic animals, spellsinging, and some of the focus on politics).
The plot was a bit slow and the book had no real ending leading in to book 2.A passage I liked:Location: 2,911“Rare is the man, wizard, warrior, or worker, who can always think with his brains instead of his balls.
I loved this series when I discovered it in middle school.
Re-reading it now, I'm less impressed...
it reads like a standard person-transported-to-fantasy-world-and-discovers-magic tale.
However, there are some quite entertaining and creative elements (e.g., a Marxist dragon!).
The magic itself is nearly marginal - not complex, interesting, or well thought out (these days magic systems that impose no cost on the caster make no sense to me).
On the other hand, our protagonist (firmly embedded in the 1970s, perhaps like the author was at the time) does have some great musical tastes - the Beatles, the Stones, Moody Blues - and maybe that's what charmed me the first time around!
Better and better...Long ago I stumbled to read and understand. I was reluctant and recalcitrant. Ino school they wanted 'right' handers with right thinking. This was never me!Thank the stars for fantasy and science fiction! I have read most of Alan Dean Foster's works. Then reread others while waiting for new stories & adventures in print. So thanks for making a good read that just gets better as I age!
This is a great idea and is executed well. A vivid world that merges fantasy with a love of music.I really enjoyed the interactions and the creativity that went into this story.It is amazing how a writer like Foster who spends so much time bringing other peoples creations to paper, namely novelizations of films, can write with such originality.I loved this series.
My copy is a paperback edition from Futura Publications 1984
!Very good. I didn't really like the opening scene yet it picked up from there.
This is the most unique fantasy novel I have ever read. The plot is very basic stop the evil from invading, but the characters and story are incredible. There's a communist dragon. Nuff said.
Nothing original, but a Marxist dragon is a brilliant idea.
