https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71811.Moon_Called
She's not a complete badass but she's not a push over either.There's a mystery - though the mystery was interesting it all came up kind of lame in the end.The writing is pretty good and even though the world building is stock-standard, it was a fun read.I guess the reason there isn't much to say is that these stories all tend to blend in together now.Mercy, Merit, Mac, Cat, Elena, Dru, Rose, Sunshine, Kate...Hell, I had to look up half the names because I'd forgotten them!
While I tend to lean more towards male protagonists (i.e. Butcher's  Dresdan Files  and Green's  Nightside  series), I still love me a good, tough female protagonist.
That being said, I was hesitant to pick this one up because of the abysmal Harlequin like cover.
In my opinion, many of the current crop of urban-fantasy covers look like they belong in the romance section.
Her banter with the other werewolves is priceless, and writing good dialogue has always been Patricia Briggs strong point.This is the story of werewolves, vampires and fae, and the struggle they find living in a modern world that has no place for them.
I'm still loving my favorite coyote shapeshifter!
Mercy I re-read this on audio and it was so strange listening to Lorelei King as the narrator.
I was expecting Lula from Stephanie Plum to jump out at any moment!
It was sweet going back and listening from the beginning.
And the Mercy and Adam thing.
Everything was just so weird but still loving it.
I think there is more of that in the next book though.
I think I spelled his name wrong.
He's Mercy's vamp friends.
SHUT-UP 😂 Now I get to read about Mercy and Adam falling in love all over again.
She has an interesting relationship with the Marrok, Bran, who is the acknowleged leader of all the werewolves in North America, and somewhat like a father figure to Mercy, Samuel, the firstborn of Bran, who Mercy almost married/mated to, and Adam, the alpha of the pack of werewolves where Mercy lives, in the Tri-Cities area.
Although this was not a long book, it was a veritable hearty meal for urban fantasy lovers.All in all, a great start to a series that I definitely want to continue reading.
Around page 100 comes this hot-sexy-alpha wolf who makes you think that the book is finally going to turn out more interesting; but then things get messed up when her previous lover appears.I was waiting for something to happen between Mercy and one of the two wolves, but it never did.
Maybe it's just me, but after the second book, the feeling goes away and I get to enjoy a lot more the series.
So I'll give the series another chance.Don't get me wrong, it was a good book, I enjoyed reading it, it's just that I got bored most of the time.
► BR with my  MacHalo Freaks  starting Nov 15, 2015.Note to self: you should review books right after reading them. When you don't you always end up lowering your original rating (view spoiler)[Oh well (hide spoiler)].I should be bummed about this. I really should. And I should be wondering why most people in the universe LOVE this book. Well, most people except my dear daughter Liz, that is. But she takes after her amazing father (aka me), meaning she has pretty spectacular book taste ← this is
Anyway, I'm not bummed over this and I couldn't care less that I'm one of two people who didn't like this book.
Victory!!!!!Okay, so I didn't like the book.
Absolutely ← this is me trying to think of anything else I like about Mercy.
Love triangles in books tend to bring out the homicidal maniac in me and I feel the sudden urge to stab a few things whenever I come across one.
More inspired than her choosing Mercy's freaking neighbour, Adam, as a love interest.
Sure, I thought it was boring, didn't like the male characters and blah blah blah.
But I was looking at the book for an article I was writing about fantasy novels and read a short except on the first page and was intrigued.I'm so glad I gave this book a chance.
(view spoiler)[I thought Gerry wanting to stop Bran to keep the werewolves from going public was a excellent reason for everything that happened and for all the people who died, but when it turned out he just wanted his father to accept his wolf - that was a disappointment.
(hide spoiler)]I'm looking forward to reading more in this series!
I was super happy to discover a new PNR series and after reading Patricia Briggs 1st book in her Mercy Thompson series….I was beyond happy…excited more like it!!!!Mercy Thompson –   a natural born coyote shape shifter, auto mechanic and owner of a garage, sensible, together, strong and independent, lives in the Tri-Cities are of Washington, amidst a world of humans and supernaturals – vampires, walkers, werewolves, fey, witches…..The storyline revolves around the murder of a young boy, employed
I was super happy to discover a new PNR series and after reading Patricia Briggs 1st book in her Mercy Thompson series….I was beyond happy…excited more like it!!!!Mercy Thompson – 
When Adam Hauptman her next door neighbor and leader of the local wolf-pack is attacked and his daughter kidnapped, Mercy takes matters into her own hands…despite Adam being a bit of a twit of a neighbor…
Mercy takes him to the Marrok…leader of all wolf-packs in North America, asking for help.Whilst there’s not much of a romance story here, I think that the triangle between Mercy, Samuel and Adam is going to develop in a way I am not sure how.
A. Badass!It's a lot harder to back down when you're angry than it is to mouth off.However, sometimes it's the better part of wisdom.As long as a character is backing down to avoid a bloodbath, it makes me like them a great deal more than the idiots whose pride won't let them take an insult.Whatever the reason, Mercy's my kind of gal.I'm sticking with the original 4 stars!The only real problem I have with this one is the cover.In an embarrassing turn of events, my son picked it up to see what I was reading.
After attempting to read "Moon Called" at least 5 times I am finally giving up.
There is absolutely no chance I will ever read the sequels, so why bother?I am a fan of urban fantasy and this novel is very highly rated by readers, so it is surprising that I disliked it so much.
My expectations for urban fantasy are not huge: well developed lore, engaging paranormal mystery and one or two sexy supernatural hunks to swoon over.
Who cares to read this kind of urban fantasy?
It's now been a decade since Moon Called was published, and it remains a solid, reliable series in the urban fantasy genre.
If it is a little predictable, it's with the assurance that the experience will be satisfying and familiar, the literary equivalent of homemade bread.Mercy is a half Native-American who is able to shapeshift into coyote form.
While Mercy could be characterized as a 'Speshul Snowflake,' I think Briggs takes definite steps to mitigate the characterization through acknowledging the physical power difference of the coyote and her generally reduced physical abilities compared to werewolves.
As expected for the genre, Mercy finds herself the focus of interest by two different and powerful werewolves.
Just as good the second time around 😀
mercy, mercy.crushingly dull exposition of everything you already knew about werewolves and et cetera, served over the course of about two hundred and fifty pages of soul-withering conversation, with the requisite love triangle and weapon-listing and speyshul-snowflake-ing and seventy quintillion characters and a plot like a doily and fuck my life if i weren't so desperate to get out of my own head i would have set this on fire and then myself when the token gay human was not physically capable of watching a woman pull on a tee without at once being irrevocably compelled to fix her hair
I've tried to read this two times now.
DNF 41%.I don't like how the female werewolves and skinwalkers are treated.
No.And then when Mercy goes back to get her neighbor help (he's an Alpha too), they still pretty much treat her like shit and she doesn't do much about it, makes excuses for them pretty much.
Mercy is also kind of meh.
I guess not every UF heroine has to be a badass, but she just kind of goes along with things.
Maybe she grows as the books go on, but I don't think I will be continuing this series.
At least I tried.
I like you Mercy Thompson.I like you because you’re tough but not invincible.I like you because you’
Still awesome!Moon Called is the first book in the Mercy Thompson Urban Fantasy series, and it was a strong start.
At sixteen, she leaves after the pack Alpha sends her away to prevent her mating with his son, Sam. Now situated in the state of Washington as an auto mechanic, she comes under the Columbia Basin Wolves’ pack in a round-about way, under the charismatic, hot-tempered (and just plain HOT) Alpha, Adam.
Moon Called wraps up nicely with the main mystery solved by the end, however, the story of the characters, and their relationships have just begun.
humanity isn't entertaining enough.---------------------------------------The supernatural communities have lived hidden in our world for generations until, finally, the fae decided to come out (or at least the weaker and prettier ones).
--------------------------------------There are a few titles that tend to pop up when we google "Best Urban Fantasy books" and, whether we like it or not, Patricia Brigg's Moon Called is usually among the top of the list.So what is it that makes this series stand out?
BOOK 10Book 10 has a non-linear timeline = me confused.com----------------------------------------Conclusion: Whether Mercy Thompson is one of the best Urban Fantasies today or if it's just another series that is barely worth reading among the huge diversity in this genre, it's up for each person to decide.
Then again, I've never been a huge fan of the whole werewolf thing and I've read a mountain of UF titles from other authors, so I felt like I could safely give this one a pass.Don't judge!
It felt like a valid excuse especially because the title and series are insanely popular and so, therefore, SOMETHING might be very sketchy about it.
Maybe it's the avoidance of outright paranormal romance, instead relying on a slow and steady *something*.
Maybe it's the interesting pack politics, the interesting drugs, the backstabbing.
:)It was better than decent.
It only gets better, they say.
One of my favorite parts of this series is that Mercy isn't as strong as the wolves, but she still holds her own, and often it's HER, her brain, her reasoning, her ability (to think without the impulses that rule the werewolves) that ends up being the key to winning.
Though it starts out focused enough, in this book, in the Tri-Cities of Washington (state), the world is huge, and it's explored a lot more in both future Mercy installments, and the Alpha and Omega series (which honestly, you SHOULD read in the combined reading order, I think that offers a lot more enjoyment of both series).
Mercy soon needs to return to her original werewolf pack for help ― even though it means that she will need to face Samuel, the werewolf that she loved and left as a sixteen year old.The plot of this first book in the Mercy Thompson series revolves around a mystery: who is creating new werewolves in such an uncontrolled and dangerous manner, and why?
The plot is fast moving although there is a lot of world building but that is to be expected in the first instalment of a series.
I loved Mercy instantly.
She is loyal, stubborn, smart, tough and has a lot of sass.
There is a bit of a love triangle happening even if there isn’t a lot of romance in this book.
While Samuel is Mercy first love and another dominant werewolf.
I’m still not sure if I can trust him with Mercy's heart.
Overall, I loved every minute of it and I need the rest of the series NOW!
After all, it promises so many of the things I love about the Urban Fantasy genre: kick-ass heroine, supernatural creatures, murder mystery and hot other-wordly men.
In other words, an awesome heroine or just some funny banter can make a novel enjoyable, but this book just never seemed to deliver much of anything that I wanted to read.It was a natural choice being both from the genre that I love and also being very highly rated by other UF lovers.
When I finished reading Fire Touched recently, I wanted more Mercy so I decided it was time to listen to some of the audiobooks from this series that have been sitting in my audible account for a couple of years.
I was surprised by how much more I liked it this time around.This is the first book in the Mercy Thompson series and it does a really good job of introducing a large number of the key players in the series.
Don't get me wrong, I thought the narration was great in the end but Mercy is a character that I have been reading about for years so I had a preconceived notion about what her voice should sound like.
Funny story: I actually removed this from my TBR a few months ago, but a couple of friends convinced me to give it a chance, and I'm really glad they did. I'd say it's a solid 3.5-star read. Review to come!
Harry Dresden, Jane Yellowrock, Mercy Thompson, Atticus O’Sullivan, Jade Crow and Pinocchio gather for a meeting of Urban Fantasy Protagonists support group.
We’re kind of on our own.Atticus: We druids can change and there’s not many of us.Jade: Well I can agree with Harry, even sorcerers and wizards can feel isolated.Moderator: OK, I see a break through, what I’m hearing from all of you is a feeling of isolation, of lacking a clear belonging.Group – murmurs of agreement.Mercy: In Moon Called we explore my life in and around werewolves while not being a part of a pack and also not fitting in with the rest of humanity.
Neither is that after a pretty (view spoiler)[hot date, Adam is engaging in a heated conversation with his "rival" and not paying any attention to Mercy (hide spoiler)] - IN HER OWN HOUSE!In general, the way women are treated here is despicable.
Like the gremlin Zee who is from the Black Forest and therefore automatically my personal hero (to say nothing of his fine dagger - not a euphemism).All in all, this world has potential to expand, there is enough magic and different kinds of creatures but I don't love it.
Buddy read with some friends at Buddies Books and BaublesMild spoiler incoming If your neighbour secretly had a picture of you in his bedroom, wouldn't you at least think "What the hell" for a mere second, no matter the circumstances?Mercy doesn't. "He turned back to me. ‘But you have his scent all over your van, and he has a picture of you in his bedroom.’ Samuel gave me a sharp look. ‘In his bedroom?’ It was news to me, too. But I was more worried about Adam and Jesse than a picture. ‘All righ
Buddy read with some friends at Buddies Books and BaublesMild spoiler incoming If your neighbour secretly had a picture of you in his bedroom, wouldn't you at least think "What the hell" for a mere second, no matter the circumstances?Mercy doesn't.
Then there are a bunch of German words that left me puzzled because of their spelling.
The female main character being a car mechanic, for instance.
Stefan could be an interesting character, but there was not nearly enough of him in the book.
I will read the next book in the series and see how things develop from there.
Full of action, mystery and a lust for the supernatural, “Moon Called” is one novel that paranormal and fantasy romance fans will be reading over and over again in their lifetime!Mercy Thompson seems like an ordinary woman who works at a mechanic shop, but there is only one odd thing about her…she can change into a coyote at will!
Patricia Briggs has done an excellent job at writing this awesome novel that is set in a world where vampires, werewolves, witches (you name it!) all live side by side by humans and that was the part of the book that I really enjoyed reading because I love reading about supernatural worlds seeing humans living with supernatural creatures like it is normal, is really interesting to see.
Review from first time i read it, 04/25/11 to 04/27/11:Mercy was awesome loved this book...
Really hope she starts bathing before Adam (I am team Adam) takes a dip into her south seas Aly this review was for you- — - Second read 03/10/13 This book still rocked.
Loved it just as much the second time.
- — - Third read 01-20-14 to 01-23-14 and I still love this book.
Will read it again and again.
I appreciated that this book is not sexually explicit, which is a refreshing change of pace in the urban fantasy genre.It’s been interesting taking on Patricia Briggs’ Mercy Thompson series after reading several books in Ilona Andrews’ Kate Daniels series.
I admire the tremendous scope of imagination the Ilona Andrews team has shown in creating Kate’s world, but I also appreciate the more realistic (if one can say that of an urban fantasy), down-to-earth world of Mercy Thompson.Initial post/mini review: For some reason I read the second book in this Mercy Thompson series first (oh, yeah, this book was checked out at the library at the time, and I really wanted to try out this urban fantasy series).
