https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/285011.The_Negotiator
I did not realize that this was an inspirational romance when I began reading it.
Do evangelical Christians not realize just how arrogant this is?
I do not appreciate proselytizing in my real life and I certainly do not want to read about it.
I realize this book is geared toward those who are avid believers and evangelicals and they feel it is their Christian duty to share the word.
However, for those of us who feel religion is very personal, it is a huge turn-off from organized religion.
These type of books just reinforce the tactics used by evangelicals which in my opinion are extremely counterproductive.
That was so good! That is, if you rearrange all the commas and put them in their proper places. ;)
I really tried to like this book and get carried away by the story.
But I couldn't get past the totally unrealistic characters.
I just couldn't relate to the characters at all.
On the plus side, I did appreciate the author attempting to put a spiritual message in the book and weighing in on the paradox of God's mercy vs.
I know this book was rated highly by others so I hate to say it but maybe it's "just me" or the mood I'm currently in.
To my friends and mom who really liked this one, "Sorry, gals."
Whether defusing human time bombs or stopping stopping a person from jumping off a building, she is good at what she does and will walk into situations no one else will.
When shocking evidence from the investigation threatens to crush her, can she learn to rely and trust in Dave and the God he believes in so faithfully?I loved this book a lot.
I connected with Dave and Kate right from the start.
Though I do think the Dave fell in love with Kate a bit too quickly.
This was a great Christian Fiction book with so much suspense, mystery, and romance.
Loved this book! I enjoyed getting to know the O'Malley family immensely, and I love all the brother/sister relationships. They're always my favorite. ;) The way the author wove God into the story was very well done. It wasn't preachy at all, and I really appreciated just how much their faith in Him worked into the character's lives. The mystery was very well done, and I'm looking forward to reading the next book in the series!
Christian Fiction at its finest! I loved it. I loved everything about it. The lack of bad words, the praying, the romance, the action. It was beautiful. Sold! I'm so reading the whole series now thank you very much :-)
The Negotiator by Dee HendersonGenre: Suspense, Christian Romance, Format: KindleTimeframe: More or less current dayLocation: Chicago, ILCharacters: Kate O'Malley: The negitiatorDave Richman: FBI agentJennifer O'Malley: Youngest O’Malley sisterMarcus O'Malley: Eldest O’Malley brother, US marshalHow is it I bought this book 5 years ago and until now have never read it?
I’m not sure that what she did with the first negotiation in the book is typical, but she walked into an extremely dangerous bank hostage situation with no bullet-proof vest on, and just sat down as calmly as can be with the intent of talking and releasing tension.Meanwhile, an FBI agent (Dave Richman) was hiding under the reception desk and only she could see him.
I thought Henderson did a good job weaving in enough suspense about Kate's background and the other elements to keep the plot snappy and quick moving...until about 2/3 of the way through when it felt like everything got tangled up in details and I started having trouble following the case and who was doing what at what time.
But it got to be a bit much when each one of her siblings is just the same.Also, what in the world was with Kate's southern accent?!
Wooden dialogue, incomplete setting of scenes (pretty problematic in a book dealing with crime), repetition of the same words within a page, and confusion about the timing of a significant incident (starts off Mon, then people start talking about "what happened on Tuesday, and finally in the last part of the book, it is a "Thursday!") all contribute to a convoluted reading experience.
I don't care if he works for the FBI and has a strong personal interest in protecting the negotiator (whose reasons for being there were also thin, but plausible).
In that case, one wonders if the effort to pull a good final product from the author is worth the publisher's resources.
I loved this book so much.
And I loved (view spoiler)[ how Kate found Yeshua.
I seriously loved it.
It was so sweet and realistic to see Dave and Kate's sis Jennifer wanting her to find Yeshua, so she could be saved and believe...(view spoiler)[ but this book was so great.
I love seeing them all as a family- it was so dang realistic I was laughing.
xD  I have book zero to get on, and I gotta order the rest of this series- Marcus, here I come to see you find Light and a soulmate!
I am SOOO happy this series is right on my streak.
Within the pages of The Negotiator you'll find a nail biting, well developed suspense, a sweet and equally well developed relationship and some fine secondary characters. The plot is tense, and at times the romance becomes secondary to the suspense, but still I found it nearly impossible to put down. I highly recommend this to fans suspense fans.
Yep! It's just as good as I remembered! :)
Review to come soon. . .
I loved this first book in a series, introducing us to one of the 7 members of the O'Malley "family", Kate; a Chicago police hostage negotiator.
The book had great pacing.
I thoroughly enjoyed the "Die Hard" action / suspense parts of this book.
Henderson masterfully weaves together realistic technical details, mystery, suspense and romance into one intriguing story.
We get a very realistic understanding of the interaction and partnership between law-enforcement, EMS, and other civil protectors - and moreover, the unique human bond created by those who suffer adversity together.Did you notice the mention of romance?
In this book it is quieter and simpler; yet no less profound and wondrous.
Kate and Dave were ON PAGE TOGETHER for like 90% of the book and IT WAS FABULOUS.
(It's a slight peeve of mine when it's supposed to be a romance and there are large gaps where the characters aren't even together.
I feel like he may end up being my favorite O'Malley.4) I ended up having a perfect guess of who the bad guy was before the characters completely pinned it down, so #win.
I didn't love it, but I definitely enjoyed it and am considering continuing onto book two...because who didn't like Marcus??
by Andrea Renee CoxAs a hostage negotiator, Kate O’Malley lives life on the edge.
Under all that pressure, will Kate uncover the truth before the bomber comes after her and the people she loves?
You won’t lose interest in these books.What I really love about these stories is the principles woven into each one.
At their core they’re all about finding God’s love in a personal way and then sharing Him with others.
Beyond that, each book focuses on its own set of principles.
The Negotiator worked with justice and mercy—and the balance that’s necessary for each to shine brightly.I will never tire of this book or its companions.
From its very begining Kate O'Malley did not need to negotiate to keep my interest.
Negotiator is fast paced and gets the heart racing and yet at just the right places it has humor that give you that breathing space that is so needed in books like this.
In this book we find Kate O'Malley in a situation where a plane has a bomb in it and her name is specifically brought into it by the caller who reports the bomb.
There is romance, there is everything that a book needs, I loved it!
3.5 stars because of Dave.
Did not like Dave.
"I reeeeally like that girl, but she is not a believer.
Guess I'll just be her friend.
Of course, I'll still flirt with her, stroke her face, tell her I like those snug jeans with the heart on the back pocket, but it can't go farther than that.
Besides the occasional snuggle.
I think I'll tell her how to dress on our not-a-date, too, because I'm sure she needs help."Enjoyable besides Dave.
I liked all the O'Malleys.
The mystery was exciting.
I also got the impression Dee Henderson had done a good amount of research.
The high rating is what drew me to the book. Unfortunately, it was one of those books I could've put down and never picked up again without losing any sleep. While other reviewers were able to get involved with the characters, I found them 'campy'. I just couldn't get into them! Kate and Dave fell in love way too fast and I don't think a Christian book always has to deal with someone 'coming to Christ'. I was really looking forward to starting another great series (like Joel Rosenberg's The Ezekiel Option)but I guess I'll have to keep looking.
I really enjoyed this book. The story was compelling and the characters likeable. It was refreshing to read a book where there was no bad language or people falling into bed together on short acquaintance.
This was a good, clean book! Rather suspenseful (but not as much as Danger in the Shadows). I like how the author added Christianity into the book also!
I knew I enjoyed it the first time around, but I couldn't remember the plot.The Negotiator is an engaging, romantic, suspenseful read.
Thankfully, Kate and Dave didn't fall in love at first sight.
The book focuses a lot on God's character, which I really enjoyed.
As for Kate's personality, she was a bit too fiercely independent at first (in my opinion) but I liked that she could lean on her 'brothers'.
I liked that Dave loved her but didn't compromise his beliefs.
This book excited me so much when I got my first taste of the O'Malleys.
(Luckily I was wrong.) The character of Kate is so excellently dynamic and really what makes her book special.
That's what makes you love her.The external drama is used to enhance the internal drama.
I thought the Bible quote Dee picked for the beginning of the book was perfect for Kate: "For the Son of man came to seek and save the lost." It's so appropriate for the pain of her childhood and job.
Going back to some " oldies but goodies" Reading some older books that I'm hoping are fit for teenagers to read.
This one is unless you don't want them reading about being orphaned or foster care due to horrid parents.
The teen I have in mind is adopted, and she knows all about birth parents not wanting their kids...heartbreaking, but true.The characters are very relatable, though it is a crime drama...nothing graphic.
If you have watched Sue Thomas FBEye...it's like that.
Very little romance.dont think there was even a kiss.I love mystery books...one of my very favorite genres.
Great read.
Kate is a trained hostage negotiator, but she's also an O'Malley: one of seven children who bonded in a group home and decided to make their own family.Although this book concentrates on Kate, the center of the whole book is really the self-made family that supports, helps, teases and generally loves each other. The Christian aspect is relatively light, not as obvious as in books by Karen Kingsbury, but still present.Don't compare this series to Catherine Coulter or similar - it's lighter in plot, and definitely less dark - but it was a fun and easy read.
The story itself and the characters are both five stars. It lost a star for repeated shabby editing issues, such as run-on sentences and comma splices.I absolutely loved the characters and the very strong Christian message. Kate was such a multi-facted woman and Dave such a strong man. He'd been one of my favorite characters in "Danger in the Shadows", and it was great to get his story. I look forward to reading more of the family's stories.
Suspensful. Exciting. Worth reading :) I loved when the FBI and other associations compared notes to try to figure out a case. I also liked how Dee Henderson was able to wrap Christianity into this book and still make it great to read. I'm looking forward to reading the other O'Mally books!
I've read this book several times and still enjoy it. The O'Malley family is enchanting.
This is my second time reading this book and I really enjoyed it. I love how Dee Henderson tackles tough issues and thinks through her mysteries.
Without having read that background on Dave, I still feel that this book succeeded in introducing him and I felt like I knew him fairly well.I don’t know what I was expecting this book to be, but it quite surprised me as I was whirled into a mystery.
I haven’t read many mystery books, so I don’t have much to compare it to, but I imagine this is a good one.
I was completely enamoured by the story.Another downside to this book was the confusion of suspects.
