https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34896.The_Ice_Dragon
First, I have had this little book FOREVER.
I got it from BookOutlet and it has a little tear in the dust jacket and until I picked it up and read it, I had no idea there was an awesome poster on the other side of the dust jacket.
I fell in love with Adara who loved Winter (like me).
Adara's family loved her but not as much as the other children because she wasn't warm and whatever, until all of that changed.
I love them!I'm going along, loving the book and thinking yeah, lets go show them and then show the fam the dragon.
(B+) 76% | GoodNotes: A latter-day Grimm’s tale, it’s endearing and atmospheric, though its symbolism’s peculiar and its message abstruse.
There is no mention of an actual setting, but what is does show is an early application of an idea that he eventually used in his wonderful fantasy series: it shows us dragons that are ridden into combat at the service of Kings.
This is because with winter comes the ice dragon.
I bought this edition because the short story was my favourite amongst Martin’s  Dreamsongs.
If you, like me, love the Ice Dragon story then this edition is an expensive buy, but a nice addition to a George R.R Martin bookshelf.
Stop.....the.....presses! A thoughtful, intelligent children's book?...Yeppers, it's true...behold... ...The Ice Dragon.That wascally wabbit, George R. R. Martin, has done it yet again! He's written an elegant, pulchritudinous children’s/YA novella that spins a captivating tale that has the added virtue of respecting the brain matter of its readers. Well done, Ser Martin, well done......okay, you've been dipped in glory and praisified...now get yon self back to thy scribing of the next SOIAF vol
In addition to being physically cold, and here the true genius of Martin’s story pops up to say "hello," Adara is also emotionally distant and detached from her family and outwardly shows virtually no emotion.
Its teeth were icicles, a triple row of them, jagged spears of unequal length, white against its deep blue maw.When the ice dragon beat its wings, the cold winds blew and the snow swirled and scurried and the world seemed to shrink and shiver.
The ice dragon breathed cold.
Animals turned blue and whimpered and died, their eyes bulging and their skin covered over with frost.The ice dragon breathed death into the world; death and quiet and cold.
It honestly boggles my mind that George RR Martin can write STORIES SUITABLE FOR CHILDREN.
The book is super tiny and short because it's stuffed with the most gorgeous dragon dragons of my life.
(And it's not graphic.) And the story had a very distinct fairy tale vibe...whimsical and dragony and wintery.
Ahem.LOOK I'M STILL STRUGGLING WITH THE FACT THAT GEORGE RR MARTIN KNOWS HOW TO WRITE NICE BOOKS.
Her father only started loving her at the end because she acted like the other children.
Icy Vulcans who like dragons FTW I say.All in all: a whimsical dragon read about ice and battles.
This story left me feeling pretty haunted, so please keep that in mind and maybe read the book yourself first, before giving this to your child.
For me, the message, or symbolism, was it is okay to be cold and alone, but sometimes it is worth it to take a risk to feel someone else's warmth, especially the love of your family.
When she is four she comes in close contact with "her" ice dragon.
This book is set before the Seven Kingdoms, but I wouldn't at all be surprised to see ice dragons in Westeros.

Because it's Game of Thrones Season...It's Winter Season..And Because it was the season finale..And, Summer Child, It has an Ice Dragon
If this short story wouldn’t have been written by George R.R. Martin, I wouldn’t have read it. Or, if I would have, I wouldn’t have liked it – for the simple reason that it’s basically a children’s tale and I’m not part of that age group anymore. But the story is set in Westeros. And there are dragons. If you crave any kind of information about this world, I guess you’ll be satisfied.*An enjoyable read if you are a GRRM fan and you want to get through everything that he has written. Otherwise, stay away.
"The ice dragon breathed death into the world; death and quiet and cold".Primero que todo, a los que dicen que el dragón de hielo de la serie de TV de Game of Thrones es imposible...
¿han leído el título de este libro?
Okay, dejando eso de lado...¡ADORÉ ESTA HISTORIA!
Sí, es bastante infantil y con tintes de cuento de hadas, pero con dragones y muertes y guerra y una niña súper valiente.
Me gustó muchísimo cómo las ilustraciones se iban entrelazando con una historia que era al mismo tiempo inocente y oscura.
Sólo George R.
R. Martin podría escribir algo así.
So going into The Ice Dragon, GRRM's children's tale, I still had nothing but the highest and happiest of attitudes until I was completely disappointed...in nothing at all.
Soon the eponymous Ice Dragon enters the picture, visiting Adara at times during the winter, even letting her ride.
In the end, I highly enjoyed The Ice Dragon and would recommend it, especially at this time of year...or maybe not, GRRM does such a good job with atmosphere I was actually colder while reading it.
(It has been argued that "The Ice Dragon" is set in Westeros as well, but apart from slight indications, nothing within the text manifests this theory - and one shall bear in mind that this story has been written many years before "A Game of Thrones".) Adara is the only character we are allowed to grow attached to, while her family is characterized only casually and without giving further attention to them.
Another short story that I didn't enjoy that much.
Every winter, the ice dragon comes to the place she lives in.
Lucky for her, winter is the time of her birthday.
She looks forward to every visit that the ice dragon does, but everyone around her hates the dragon.
It brings harsh winter effects and hinders the crops to grow.
In actuality, the dragon is a curse for everyone.One thing that I can really commend on is the artwork.
Not the best thing I've read from Martin, but it seems like a short prequel to the Song of Ice and Fire series.
Μια καλογραμμένη μικρή ιστορία που σε ταξιδεύει στον κόσμο του Τραγουδιού της Φωτιάς και του Πάγου.Έ
Fuck me. Worst reviewer ever.It's been a while since I read this and I forget what it's about. I remember it being good though. Maybe.
Las ilustraciones son preciosas, y la historia es muy tierna, aunque con un leve toque de melancolía y sangre (Todos sabemos lo que le gusta eso a R.R Martin)
Η ιστορία μου άρεσε πολύ, ένα παγωμένο κορίτσι που οι πάντες το έχουν σε απόσταση, η Αντάρα συναντάει ένα πλάσμα το οποίο οι πάντες το φοβούνται, έναν δράκο του πάγου, από τότε μια άτυπη συμφωνία γεννιέται, συναντιούνται κάθε χρόνο στα γενέθλια της...
Η γλώσσα είναι απλή και η αφήγηση όμορφη.
Αυτό όμως που με συνεπήρε είναι η εικονογράφηση του Luis Royo.
ένα απο τους λόγους ανάγνωσης του βιβλίου, είναι οτι έμαθα οτι το εικονογραφεί Luis Royo.
Από το τοπίο μέχρι τους δράκους, από το κορίτσι μέχρι το χιόνι όλα ήταν πανέμορφα.
Ο συνδυασμός της ιστορίας με τις εικόνες δε, βγάζουν ένα πολύ καλό αποτέλεσμα.4/5
Πολύ ωραίο και καλογραμμένο παραμύθι. Όχι και τόσο παιδικό, όμως. Προσωπικά δεν θα το έδινα σε μικρά παιδιά, έχει μέσα κάποια πράγματα που θεωρώ ότι θα τα ψιλοσοκάρουν... (Πχ, η σκηνή με τον θείο της Αντάρα προς το τέλος).Σε όποιον αρέσει το φάντασι και θέλει να περάσει ένα χαλαρό απόγευμα, το συνιστώ ανεπιφύλακτα.
You can read this review and more on my blogIn a nutshell: The Ice Dragon is a great fantasy read for all ages with beautiful illustrations.
It's essentially a story of winter, dragons, war and sacrifice.
(hide spoiler)]It is fairly short and a nice, quick read.
Like a lot of people, I've always been fascinated by dragons and I was especially interested in this book thanks to the dragons.The Ice Dragon was not necessarily anything extraordinary but I enjoyed it.
I'd recommend it to fans of fantasy - especially dragons - of all ages, though I can imagine it would be a nice read for younger readers.
The Ice Dragon is a fine children’s tale about family, warfare, and dragons. This is my first taste of George R. R. Martin and just maybe I will read more of his work. I probably would have enjoyed this more had it not been for the ending.
Ωραίο παραμυθακι..και αφού είχε και δράκους μάλλον ο μικρός θα μου ζητήσει να του το ξανά διαβάσω αύριο! ☺
There is not much to these characters, other than that John bitterly misses his wife, Geoff wants to be a farmer, Teri is a flirt, Adara likes winter, and all the children like Uncle Hal. Right at the beginning, we learn that Adara likes winter mostly because it is when the Ice Dragon visits.
The first chapters are the only redeeming parts of the book, where they describe Adara's relationship with The Ice Dragon, including the first time she rides it at five years old.
No. Adara (view spoiler)[turns the Ice Dragon around to her family's farm, even though it is summer outside, and they never do go to the land of always-winter.
Aș învăța (cum) să iubesc iarna, dacă aș primi un dragon de gheață.
somehow GRRM manages to make even a childrens book sad
Όταν οι εκδόσεις Μεταίχμιο ανακοίνωσαν ότι απέκτησαν δικαιώματα βιβλίων του Μάρτιν πέταξαν από τη χαρά μου! Διάβασα τη σειρά του ''Το τραγούδι της Φωτιάς και του Πάγου'' που ακόμα δεν έχει ολοκληρωθεί σε τρεις μήνες και δηλώνω μεγάλη θαυμάστρια. Εφτά βιβλία των 1000 σελίδων περίπου το καθένα που αναφέρονται στις περιπέτειες και στα παιχνίδια μεγάλων οίκων για τη διεκδίκηση του θρόνου μιας τεράστιας ηπείρου με το όνομα Γουέστερος. Και φυσικά έχω δει και την τηλεοπτική τους μεταφορά στο HBO και α
Από αυτά όμως τα παραμύθια που δεν είναι μόνο φρου φρου και αρώματα και happy end όπου ζήσαν αυτοί καλά και εμείς καλύτερα αλλά πατούν γερά τα πόδια τους στην πραγματικότητα, συνδυάζουν τέλεια τη φαντασία με τον ρεαλισμό, εξάπτουν την περιέργεια και ενεργοποιούν την κριτική σκέψη των παιδιών και η χαρά πάει χέρι χέρι με τη λύπη….Υπόθεση: Ένα κοριτσάκι με το όνομα Αντάρα γεννιέται στον πιο δύσκολο χειμώνα που έχει γνωρίσει η χώρα της.
Το παράξενο όμως στην όλη ιστορία είναι πως ενώ απεχθάνομαι τους δράκους της Νταινέρυς όταν διάβασα πρώτη φορά στο βιβλίο το θρύλο για τον δράκο του Βορρά ενθουσιάστηκα σε σημείο να παρακαλώ πίσω από το θρύλο να υπάρχει αλήθεια.
[Leído en inglés]Si bien es cierto que hay buenísimas traducciones, siempre tiendo a leer los originales para que no se escape ningún matiz –como es el caso de cierto juego de palabras que tiene lugar bien avanzada la historia de GoT y que ha hecho que los traductores se tiren de los pelos–.
Diría que está más enfocada a niños o jóvenes (también por su brevedad), aunque también tiene sus matices "gore", convirtiéndola en una historia para todos los públicos.Lo que más me ha gustado ha sido, sin duda, las ilustraciones (gran trabajo del artista español Luis Royo).
Anyway, Adara befriended an ice dragon who saved her and her family from war/fire dragons - this somehow lead to Adara learning to love summer, have normal emotions, and be like other children.
Liked Adara and her being cold and quiet about everything but her ice dragon.
Loved the illustrations, they were drawn in an old fashioned sort of way, which suited the setting/story.Really enjoyed the ice dragon aspect, and how much more powerful it was in comparison to the fire dragons.Not sure if this was set in the same world as ASOIAF (as the publishers said), there's definitely similarities like the fire dragons, the Kingsroad, and the whole Winter/Summer/North/South thing, but at the same time it didn't read like Westeros.
I've read a few reviews, some saying it was great, other's saying it wasn't, and even one that detailed the entire book from start to finish and then said it was awful because people died (um, this is by George R.
Then you can talk them through it and be like "Oh I know it would be awful to lose both eyes and an arm, but people pull through, there's such a thing as hedonic adaptation after all!" (Don't freak out, that's not a spoiler.)Despite the limb losing and the dying and all the senseless warring, I loved the book.
3 stars for the story 5 stars for the illustrationsI'm really fond of dragons and the idea that George Martin could write children's stories aroused my curiosity and I have to admit that I was startled at first.
I wasn't expecting the story to be this compelling.
It was brilliant until the last chapter.
the last few pages though, killed the mood.
The idea of the wintry child as main character was magnificent but as Adara loses her own "magic" I lost my interest.
That Westeros-kind-of-setting and thatKhaleesi-kind-of-character really struck me and absorbed me.
Other than talk of a few split heads, men fried to a smoking crisp and a daughter that's maybe a little too friendly when it comes to the lads, I may consider reading this to my soon to be eight year old daughter.
After all, she's just a little bit older than our main character Adara and is also quite fond of a dragon or three as well.Overall a nice, quick easy read and illustrated by the extremely talented Luis Royo (check out his artwork if you haven't already), I'd recommend this to any George RR Martin fans or fantasy in general.
