https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2766597-the-highland-lute
A Homeric staging of the Albanian struggle for indipendence under the dissolving Ottoman Empire, quite a masterpiece.
"The Highland Lute" is considered to be a masterpiece in Albanian Literature, and not only. I have read/studied this for my Advanced Literature Class. Fishta has created some characters that can be divided in two groups: mythological and real. Still, the difference between these two groups is not that big, in fact it is not big at all. This is not a light read. You must have time and the right focus to truely enjoy and understand it correctly.
My country"s history
Reading for my East Europe history class!
Imagine the Balkan described in Homeric Verse. Really really interesting poetry.
Fishta's epic poem was the first Albanian book to be announced as a candidate for the Noble Prize (literature) in 1940. Fishta is regarded as "Albanian Homer".
The translation is not so great, but I'll give Elsie credit. Fishta is the hardest nut to crack in Albanian.
Ajo c’ka na ben shqiptar, c’ka mund te na shkaterroje dhe tna ndertoje.
Eshte e cuditshme sesi ne mendojme se nuk kemi, shprehim se kemi, mund te mos kemi, por na imponojne te kemi nevoje per te tjeret.
Por qe mjafton ta fusesh ne kornizat e realiteti dhe do gjesh nje shqiptare edhe te diteve te sotme.
Fataliste.Dihet tashme se si gruaja merr trajtat e hyjnise ne letersine popullore bashke me perfaqesueset e tyre si Oret e Zanat por Fishta e coi ne nje tjeter nivel.
Nje kryeveper e tille e meriton te quhet ''Iliada shqiptare'' e Fishta "Homeri shqiptar''.
Nese deshiron te njohesh themelet e te qenurit shqiptar ,hyr ne boten fishtiane ,degjo me vemendje e zemer vargjet e Fishtes ,te shkruara me vertetesi e ndjenje .
Ne letersine shqiptare nuk mund te kete nje Fishte te dyte ,vetem ai ta thote te verteten ne sy,te fshikullon (sigurisht,pa harruar Migjenin) pa meshire ata pseudopatriotet ''trima'' dhe ngre ne piedestal atdhedashurine e atyre burrave e grave qe derdhen gjakun per te mbrojtur kombin e tyre.
Kjo veper pa dyshim e rendesishme ,sepse ruan identitetin tone shqiptar !
Page on Google Books: https://books.google.rs/books?id=j7tL...Seems very interesting!LATER NOTE: ooooh, damn. This is translated by the notorious Elsie. Avoid, then. Elsie has made the grave mistake of Taking Sides on Balkan conflicts, which destroys any hope of a detached, objective kind of scholarship on this messy, convoluted region. In other words, it's a huge DON'T. Looks like I'll stick with Njegos. (WINK)
