https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/439283.The_Asphalt_Jungle
"You can really see how big it is, and you get to thinking about all the thousands of poor bastards conniving, fighting, biting, and scratching to make a living." Burnett is a hardboiled writer, but he is also a romantic who wants to find some hope of escaping the jungle, and a deft hand at sketching compelling characters in just a few paragraphs.
With the original story fresh in mind, the movie becomes very close to a masterpiece also, with the main points about the city and alienation well made and with a stellar cast of characters.
Αν θέλει κάποιος να ξεκινήσει να διαβάζει αστυνομική λογοτεχνία με έντονα 'νουάρ' στοιχεία, καλό θα είναι να ξεκινήσει με το συγκεκριμένο βιβλίο. Ο Burnett ψυχογραφεί με τέτοιο πειστικό τρόπο τους χαρακτήρες και τονίζει τη μοναδικότητά τους, ώστε ο αναγνώστης νιώθει την επίδραση των γεγονότων, ακόμα, και αρκετή ώρα, αφού έχει ολοκληρώσει την ανάγνωση. Πέρα από αυτό, το συγκεκριμένο μυθιστόρημα αποτελεί καί μια πειστικότατη κοινωνική καταγραφή της μεταπολεμικής Αμερικής, μέσα από τη γλαφυρά στοιχειωτική ατμόσφαιρα μιας μεγαλούπολης, όπως το Σικάγο (1949). Πρόκειται για ένα από τα πιο 'στρωτά' και ξεκάθαρα στη δομή της πλοκής 'νουάρ' μυθιστορήματα. Βαθμολογία: 4,8/5 ή 9,6/10.
Εξαιρετικό δείγμα νουάρ και από τα καλύτερα του Burnett, από όσα έχω διαβάσει μέχρι στιγμής τουλάχιστον. Το μόνο μειονέκτημα-βασικό!- η έκδοση του Παρατηρητή που έχω, η οποία καταφέρνει να καταστρέψει πολλά σημεία του έργου. Αν μπορείτε, αποφύγετέ την! Κρίμα για την αξία του βιβλίου αυτού.
This novel and subsequent film started the trend towards heist or caper stories, where the heist goes wrong.
In this instance, the heist goes wrong because of some quirk present in each of the gang members.
He is provided with a contact on the outside who can help him gather together the men and finances he needs to move forward.
His contact then introduces him to the man with the money he needs – a district attorney for the city.
Although meticulously planned, the heist goes awry through a series of random events that were beyond the control of the gang.
He has a job repairing appliances at an electrical-appliance store, but he still makes money “...in other ways...”Bob Brannom - Emmerich’s right-hand henchman and a thuggish private detective.On the good-guys team:Lou Farbstein - wise and jaded newspaper reporter, “Like Diogenes, he’d been looking for an honest man for a long time...”Police Commissioner Theo J.
Whatever books or stories about heists which came before or after ‘Asphalt Jungle’, I think this novel is the one which perfected the genre standard and set in place the elements around which all other heist stories must weave their recapitulated medleys of plot.For those who enjoy more quality, if modern, noir torch songs:https://youtu.be/AU_PuF59E5gOr, if these ruined fellows make you angry, ladies, at the waste of your time (for balance, right?)https://youtu.be/z4DYcIQ1v7M
The heist plot is nothing special but the atmosphere of corruption and decay in the Rust Belt big city (Pittsburgh) is what makes this post-WWII noir crime novel stand out. Although it's somewhat disorienting and slow in the early stages, the pace picks up by the halfway point and the conclusion is satisfying. Characters are well developed and have satisfying arcs that are typical for the genre, but Burnett clearly has contempt for some of them which doesn't play well for the reader.
Here's the 1955 Corgi Books mass-market paperback, not listed here (255 pages).
But over the course of the book they take on layers of complexity until, by the end, they’ve become people we can understand and pity.
If only he had a little kindness, a little understanding in his nature; not much, just a little.” This is a woman who has reached the end of the line, and that end is Dix. She had known only the rough side of life for thirty-five years, had been engaged in a “constant, tough, but inconclusive battle against the long, easy slide into the mire.” She had not taken on the “sordid fatalism” of the people around her.
I did not like this book.Too many characters.Too little action.Too much ugh.....On the plus side it's short.
Una tipica vicenda noir degli anni '50 dello scorso secolo, con una banda di balordi che mette a segno il colpo del secolo, un commissario apparentemente impermeabile a qualsiasi genere di umanità e ben deciso a sradicare la criminalità, nani e ballerine assortiti, e il caso, l'imponderabile, la sfiga per dirla tutta, che ci mettono il naso, e tutto va a rotoli.Bello e nerissimo.
A fascinating read, if not of the greatest literary prowess. I'm still trying to decide if Burnett was providing an ironic critique of the city or an American-heartland, xenophobic rant against immigrants. Either way the highest it could get is a four.The film adaptation is much better and, ironically, changes very little of the book. It just doesn't include the subtle xenophobic comments.
In order to keep the balls in the air, he has to come up with other alternatives and prepares various plans in which he will end up double-crossing someone or other.
He has a temper, a surprising power and he’s connected to everything that happens in the underworld crime scene.
As it happens, he’s also a big fan of Dix’s and will back him all the way and make sure that he stays safe, no matter how many cops or villains are after him.
What happens when all these characters come together and the heist is played out is gripping.
The Asphalt Jungle by W. R. Burnett was published in 1949. It is a tale of big city crime, specifically a jewelry heist. The city is as corrupt as any big city is and these other crimes are brought up as a periphery over-look. The author decided to narrow in on a big-time jewel heist, the largest within memory and the ineptness of the people that pull it off. This novel was also made into a film it had a cameo by Marilyn Monroe in one of her earliest outings and directed by john Huston.
Saw the noir movie directec by John Houston. Great stuff. Marilyn Monroe lit up the screen in 1950.
Perhaps for me one of the best noir novels ever writen that inspired an excelent movie by John Houston
One word review:“Meh.”Full review:“Confusing meh,” said the little doctor, still perplexed as to whether he was Emmerich or Riemmenschneidster or Nietzsche or Gesundheit.“I’ll call you Cobby,” said Cully, who was upset because of something the scene reminded him of from childhood.
He felt the breeze of redemption on his face.
Then he died but the scene was not over.“But don’t forget the diamonds,” said Doll.
Or a Jamieson.“And don’t forget I’m in this scene too!” exclaimed Emmerich.
Who didn’t really care about the diamonds or the characters.A little like me as I was reading this book.
In a nameless midwest city of the 1940's, a team of ex-cons, plot a jewel heist.
Once the heist is completed, Police Commissioner Hardy leads the hunt.
He runs a lunch counter, seems to know everyone and is loyal to a fault.Rich with the jargon of the day amid the backdrop of a dark and gritty city, The Asphalt Jungle has all of what we expect in a noir novel.Once you have read the book, go see the John Huston directed movie (occasionally shown on Turner Classic Movies).
It's just as good as the book if not better.
The description of the industrial city in Chapter 2 is so important.
The mass entertainment area , suburbs, the ethnic neighborhoods where men work in factory and warehouse, the immense slum with teeming tenements, millionaire's row -- a introduction to a world of a past both recent and yet now obliterated.Burnett's awareness of the hidden decency of Dix and Doll and how buried under misfortune it is -- a great contrast to the commissioner's view of the "jungle.".
That also tells you of the isolation and fears of the post war city.
The Commish is also sympathetic, until you think about what he is saying.He's as much a part of the jungle as Dix and Doll.
fantastico. come "piccolo cesare" (che è precedente) ma ancora migliore, un vero noir senza eroi- tutto incentrato su un gruppo di perdenti (dopo un iniziale barlume di speranza). non per niente, john huston ne ha tratto un capolavoro.
THE ASPHAULT JUNGLE WR BurnetWhy is it the Hollywood versions of these famous crime stories are so much better than the original book? Here's a good example. TAJ as a movie with Sterling Hayden and Sam Jaffee is great, tightly focused, and zips along. TAJ as a book drags, plus the characters are uninteresting. See the movie, skip the book.
Perhaps if I hadn't seen the Sam Jaffee / Sterling Hayden movie I would give this a higher rating... but the movie did such a good job of cutting the chaff and focusing the story that the book feels needlessly cluttered. The movie ending for Dix is soooo much better and poignant. In the book I hardly cared for him.
Δεν είναι η πρώτη φορά που διαβάζω Μπέρνετ, το 2010 διάβασα δυο βιβλία του, το Μικρός Καίσαρ και το Τέλος της διαδρομής, και τα δυο μου άρεσαν σε γενικές γραμμές χωρίς όμως να μ'εντυπωσιάσουν ιδιαίτερα.
Δεν λέω, σαν ιστορία μπορεί να δείχνει τα χρονάκια της και να μην ξετρελαίνει ιδιαίτερα με την δράση της τους νέους αναγνώστες, όμως πρόκειται για μια άκρως ενδιαφέρουσα και κλασική νουάρ ιστορία που έχει όλα τα καλούδια του είδους, όπως μαύρη ατμόσφαιρα, έντονες στιγμές, αγωνία και τραγική κατάληξη για κάποιους από τους χαρακτήρες.
The source material for the 1950 John Huston film, which was a faithful adaptation. A rag tag gang of petty thieves luck themselves into a jewel heist only to question that luck in the second half. On the strength of this I'd like to see more of W.R. Burnett's collection released to the reading public.
Great, great heist book. The one weakness, in my opinion, is that Burnett wasn't a strong enough writer (at least with this particular book) to often make it clear whose head the reader was in. POV shifts whenever he felt like shifting it. But still, a really, really good and powerful book.
Classic gangster stuff, I believe.
This book came out in 1949, and was made into a widely distributed movie just a year later, i.e. 1950.
Whatever, a crook, Erwin Riemenschneider, often known as "the doctor" is released from prison.
"The little doctor" gathers some other crooks around him and pull off an amazing jewel heist.
We have all the classic stuff of noir crime novels: corrupt cops, bookies, shyster lawyers, fancy gals, brute thugs, etc.
I believe that I read W.
R. Burnett's more famous novel, Little Caesar a few years ago.
Personally, I found this book to be much better written and much more engaging.
Empezó demasiado bien pero terminó no tan bien, la historia inicia con una construcción de personaje
Me pareció que hubo demasiados rellenos innecesarios. A pesar de que es un libro corto de casi 300 páginas, yo diría que 100 son las importantes y lo demás es por las puras. Lo terminé de leer porque en fin. Sí me gustó el desenlace de los personajes y del trama, pero no es un libro que recomendaría
Wow, I really disliked the style of this book. I shouldn’t be surprised, as I am not a big fan of the noir genre, but as this is included on so many “must read” lists, I thought I would at least give it a try.
Burnett did an awesome job creating characters that were human. Everyone had flaws, everyone had decent qualities, and everyone was distinct. The writing of the heist itself had me on the edge of my seat.
Καλό αστυνομικό μυθιστόρημα με θέμα μια ληστεία από μια συμμορία που αποτελείται από ετερόκλητους χαρακτήρες. Ο εγκέφαλος, ο διαρρήκτης, ο μπράβος, ο οδηγός, ο κλεπταποδόχος σκιαγραφούνται με επιτυχία και η ψυχολογία τους δίνει τον ρυθμό στην εξέλιξη της ιστορίας.
