https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11627.The_Colossus_and_Other_Poems
After the rot and watery decay, Plath tries to pull an Eliot, meditating on the skull beneath the skin:The crab face, etched and set there,Grimaced as skulls grimace; itHad an Oriental look,A samurai death mask doneOn a tiger’s tooth, less forArt’s sake than God’s.I’m not sure I believe her here.
And she knows you won’t believe her, as she returns you to the death process in the here and now:And whole crabs, dead, their soggyBellies pallid and upturned,Perform their shambling waltzes On the waves’ dissolving turnAnd return, losing themselvesBit by bit to their friendlyElement –I suppose I could go on about several other poems, but I see no need.
Sylvia Plath has done to me twice in the last 48 hours what not many other writers has ever done before, that being keeping me up into the early hours. Having read the stunning collection of poetry in "Ariel" this was another body of work which shows off her masterful talent and already I crave for more. Troubled genius?, tortured soul?, probably true, but that doesn't bother me, just the greatness of whenever she put pen to paper.
Perhaps I shouldn't have tried to read The Colossus all at once.
I'm sorry, I have to sit down and start again.Perhaps I shouldn't have tried to read The Colossus all at once.
It was like trying to eat a plateful of prime rib, that's been covered in dark chocolate and deep fried.
And all the hard words!
I don't mean hard like palustral is hard, as in hard to understand because I'd never before made an acquaintanceship with the word.
No, I mean hard like how a seed or a nut can be hard.
And word pairs as hard and as beautiful as (but much more plentiful than) sapphires.
Sylvia Plath's words are magical, haunting, beautiful, and forever burned into my brain. May you rest in peace, you tortured, gorgeous, sensitive soul you.
Plath writes poems that are elemental, attuned to the natural world, transfixed by decay, yet at times darkly humorous. Many are inscrutable on first reading, but become magically alive on the second. Others sing with clarity from the beginning – I like these best.
Death always hangs along the periphery for Plath, whether in the shadows seeping through each crack of her spot-on phrasings or in the tangible forms of faceless, darning-head muses or blue moles that have killed one another in tragedic Shakespearian battles.This is really Plath as her "least confessional"--these are stunning glimpses into a natural world that is brutal and frightening, though perfectly ordered.
The speakers of the poems and the characters in them are the ones that invoke chaos and suffer under the strict parameters of natural existence that has become so mythical in these poems, as with the sow, the blue moles, the dead snake in "Medallion." If anything is wrong with the world of The Colossus it is that we've interfered with it, unprepared for the consequences.
I chatted with her one evening as she disrobed in front of me for the art class and I then watched, in a mix of awe and embarrassment, as the the class of about 20 sketched her in charcoal.The reason I mention this occasion is that as much as I wanted to understand Sylvia Plath, this book of poetry only became accessible once I began to understand Linda's ability to open herself to others.
One was in my head and the other permeated everything else inside me.Linda would often sit or walk with me when I was under the spell and I would talk breathlessly about one point or another, all with what I thought was an emulation of Plath's deep seated passion.
From what I understand of the collection, the order in which the poems appear in the collection is generally chronological, and you are able to see Plath's poetry expand and her ability grow throughout the course of reading the book.I find Plath's poetry at times to be beautiful and arresting, but more often than not in this collection I was either bored or bemused.
Plath uses a great deal of metaphor in her poems, but to me it was not always that clear exactly what images she was trying to convey, which affected my ability to enjoy them and 'read into them'.
This rather pedantic attitude toward poetry shows in these poems, many of which devoutly adhere to difficult rhyme schemes (albeit frequently using slant rhymes) and all of which are marked by a studied attention to detail, both visual and sonic.
Plath frequently uses the terza-rima rhyme scheme that Dante patented, as though to suggest that life, for her, is a slow, laborious, yet dignified plod through hell.
In this book, Plath shows that she can write good poems, but she does not make the art of writing good poems seem easy.I do not, however, mean to imply that this is not a useful book for aspiring poets to read.
To Plath, even the smallest things in life are worthy of attention.
Have this book on your bedside table for those lonely, stormy nights when you want to hide underneath your covers and read something dark and meaningful.
Many of the poems are plain out disturbing and you're not going to get a 'feel good' experience out of this book - odds are you'll get some shivers down your spine, you'll probably even shudder a time or two.
But sometimes its nice to explore our dark side, run underneath the shadows of all those pent up emotions, all those forgotten dreams and hurts...
and there's no better person than Sylvia Plath to make us feel afraid  and love it .
4.5 stars. This was the first full collection of Plath's poem that I'd read and I absolutely loved it. The poems in this collection contained fresh images and there were no staleness nor redundancy. I fully ascertained the reason why Plath is regarded as one of the best poets.
Mule-bray, pig-grunt and bawdy cackles Proceed from your great lips.It's worse than a barnyard.
Perhaps you consider yourself an oracle,Mouthpiece of the dead, or of some god orother.Thirty years now I have laboredTo dredge the silt from your throat.I am none the wiser.Scaling little ladders with glue pots and pailsof lysolI crawl like an ant in mourningOver the weedy acres of your browTo mend the immense skull plates and clearThe bald, white tumuli of your eyes.A blue sky out of the OresteiaArches above us.
I think it's a wonderful thing to slow down and read Plath's poetry.
Everybody already knows Plath was a brilliant writer, so I won't spend too much time writing a review.
Plus, she has a remarkable ability to write sensuously about crustaceans:"Could they feel mud Pleasurable under claws As I could between bare toes?"Not to mention her dark side:"The head of his cadaver had caved in, And she could scarcely make out anything In that rubble of skull plates and old leather."She also writes about the ocean, bees, snakes, butterflies, mannequins, and much more, but I think my favorite poem in this collection is "Sculptor" which is about the almost unbelievable talent of a sculptor who creates something light and airy from something heavy and stubborn."To his house the bodiless Come to barter endlessly Vision, wisdom, for bodies Palpable as his, and weighty."Plath was born in 1932.
To think she could still be alive...
"Prime rib covered in dark chocolate"?
"Comes from the darkest crevices of herself"?
Shudder...
It's sentiments like these which contribute to our culture's overwhelming indifference (perhaps even resentment)towards poetry.
Poetry isn't wussy, it's not some superfluous thing which can only be grasped by the suicidal-chic.
Plath's poetry is frankly, a lot more than that.
Yes, there's pain.
There is some death.
But there's also tranquility, poignancy,and, more times than not, a hell of a lot of humour.
And, in terms of the vividness and distinctness of her metaphors, she is unrivaled.
Want to read something contemporary?
Enjoy the surreal?

The only way I could tell if Plath had ended a poem is when there was considerable blank space after the last line. And when a poem did indeed reach the last printable line on an odd-numbered page, it was only when I turned the page that I discovered if a poem had ended, or not. One can switch verses around, retitle them any ol' way, print everything backwards, whatever. As the "genius-with-word-and-song" Kurt Cobain famously begged, "Here we are now, entertain us." But to Plath, no doubt, he wailed only "Nevermind."
I did not find this collection particularly enjoyable, which was a massive shame as I'm entirely obsessed with Plath at the minute. I think it's massively less confessional than Ariel so I found it a bit uncomfortable in that sense, I kind of like when poets confess all their shit! But yeah, I'm not sure what it was it just didn't strike me in anyway, no poem in particular stood out as amazing, quite disappointed
I'm surprised I didn't care for the Colossus poems much. They felt really over-worked to me.
і я б ще українською її складну та депресивну поезію почитала. Багата на Образи, символи, незвична та незвичайна, як і сама Сильвія Плат! Перекладіть українською!
dnf at 50% due to my lack of understanding of the poems, though they are no less beautiful than the credit that I gave
One or two poems are quite good,the others are utterly tedious!
The old god, too, writes aureate poetryIn tarnished modes, maundering among the wastes,Fair chronicler of every foul declension.Age, and ages of prose, have uncoiledHis talking whirlwind, abated his excessive temperWhen words, like locusts, drummed the darkening airAnd left the cobs to rattle, bitten clean. Reading Sylvia Plath is always an experience. Her play with language, the sometimes sudden ornateness of her poems, the rhythm of the syllables, the deliciously dark atmosphere that she ofte
Reading Sylvia Plath is always an experience.
I won't pretend to understand all her metaphors (and more than once I had to get my dictionary out to get at the right meaning of a word) but the vividness and rawness of the overall effect carried me through to the end.
The Colossus is Plath's first collection of poetry (and the only published in her lifetime) but you wouldn't know that from reading it.
When I remember the way hearing a recording of Sylvia Plath reading "Daddy" seared my skin, I know Plath's work is special and that anyone could find a piece that works for them.
3.5 bintangcuma bisa bilang kalo puisi2 di buku ini tuh "unik".
Only read some poems, but come on, it's Sylvia. I'll be back. ❤
Stunning and haunting collection. Surprisingly, I liked it more than Ariel.
“Father, this thick air is murderous /I would breathe water.”I wasn’t a fan of Sylvia Plath before reading this collection - in fact, I thought her writing was slightly annoying. But this, this collection really moved me. After I finished reading it, I just sat. I had to sit with and mull over and savor these beautiful poems.I don’t know how to explain those feelings. These poems were poignant and clean; I guess I felt pure or purified. Regardless, one thing I can say for sure is that this collection is incredibly satisfying and gratifying.
Style, wordsmith poet over poets about social ,political content or those that write playing literary games of writing difficult poems that just put words together.This collection i impulse bought because of her reputation as a poet and didnt know it was her first published book of poems.
Of the 40 poems in this collection atleast 20 are very good, great ones are among the finest i have read when its comes to original imagery,craftmanship.
Why waste this much talent for poetry on a simpler, easier form of writing that is writing prose and novels.
I haven't read a book of poetry since perhaps high school.
(And, I picked this book up to fulfill a requirement that I read a "Staff Pick" for my library's adult summer reading program.) I wasn't very impressed by Plath's work though I know she is quite famous in the world of poetry.
I just didn't have the patience to delve into the meaning of the poetry.
Her imagery, at times, was fascinating but I found the topics of the poems (nature, love, death, etc.) to be fairly dry.
It will probably be a while before I pick up a book of poetry again
3.5I didn't really understand too many of the poems to be honest. I'm not good at analyzing stanzas and I mainly create my own interpretation once I read a poem.Overall, the poems I did understand, I reread them several times overRegardless, the writing was beautiful, and I certainly wouldn't know how to create poignant stories in limited phrases.
