https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/471944.Robin
I adore the wretched yet impossibly beautiful and innocent Robin, and her divinely handsome (if somewhat inarticulate) lover Donal."Robin" picks up where "The Head of the House of Coombe" leaves off: it is the eve of WWI, soldiers are leaving to fight the Kaiser, and Donal, despite his beauty, charm, and noble estate, is prime cannon fodder.
Donal may never come home again, so he and Robin engage in some pre-war indiscretions.
Consequences ensue, but lucky for Robin, the Earl of Coombe is still watching over her, even though she still detests him.Lots of Burnett-ish wanderings down Spiritualism byways, but again I say, I DON'T CARE.
She wrote about 30 adult novels and 15 or more children's books, many short stories, and a few plays and some of this work is excellent.The Head of the House of Coombe and its sequel, Robin, which were published in 1922, were the last books Burnett wrote.
They tell the story of a flighty woman, so flighty people called her Feather, and her daughter, Robin.
Feather's husband dies, leaving her with a child she does not want and an enormous load of debt.
When the servants, long unpaid, leave her and the child alone in the house she is frantic.
Lost in their own bubble of love, Robin and Donal Muir are elated to find each other again after being parted after their first meeting as children about 15 years earlier.
Robin is the lonely only child of an uncaring mother, who upon the death of her husband, accepted financial support from the elderly Head of the House of Coombe.
Donal loved Robin instantly and wanted to protect her.
The world is at war however, and the love bubble bursts cruelly when Donal marches off to war and is missing, presumed dead.
I really wanted to like this novel because I love her children's books, but I just couldn't like it.
Burnett was one of my favorite writers when I was young.
Robin is the child of this irresponsible, pretty, frivolous woman.
Robin is a child in the first book, and she grows up to be a very different woman from her mother, who is appropriately named Feather.There is a sweet, old-fashioned innocence about Burnett's writing that is a refreshing change from the edgy contemporary fiction I usually read.
Burnett's work and the author of Freckles and Girl of the Limberlost have much in common.
If you've never heard of either and are looking for some innocent, romantic escapism, either of these writers will scratch that itch for you.
Ancora una bellissima storia della Burnett, stavolta fortemente incentrata sulla guerra (si tratta proprio della 'grande guerra') e di tutto il male che può fare agli uomini, intesi come collettività e come singoli. Nel corso del racconto, emerge e si precisa sempre più la personalità di Lord Coombe: il vero protagonista dei due romanzi, una splendida figura che fa da ponte tra l'età vittoriana e il nuovo secolo. L'incursione conclusiva nel soprannaturale (che non è il mio genere) è poco invasiva, e assolutamente tollerabile.
Well written, fluff, I guess, but all about a bird?
Esta es la segunda parte de dos volúmenes que sigue la historia de Robin luego de terminar la primera parte de la serie, El señor de la casa de Coombe, en el esperado encuentro entre Robin y Donal.Tal y como se esperaba, ambos jóvenes terminan enamorándose y precipitándose sin atenerse a las consecuencias de ese amor a las puertas del estallido de la Primera Guerra Mundial.
Muchos jóvenes conocidos en el primer libro perecen y Donal también se va a la guerra.Pluma sigue indiferente hacia su hija y Coombe toma ya los colores propios de su carácter, terminando así con el misterio que envolvía a su personaje.
And Robin, the main character, after being quite resilient in volume 1, becomes extremely passive and, in the face of tragedy, almost dies of a broken heart.
However, the further character development of the head of the house of Coombe and the spectacular end of Robin's nasty mother were unexpected and well done.This volume takes place during the early years of WWI and I think Burnett does a legitimate job of portraying varied British responses to the war and the increasing news of horrors on the front.If you read volume 1, "The Head of the House of Coombe", take the time to read volume 2.
Robin is the companion book to The Head of the House of Coombe.
Though it was melodramatic in spots and the middle of the book dragged, I enjoyed it.
Robin takes place during World War 1 in England.
Burnett stresses the horrors of war way too much.
I have always had passionate emotions about both the world wars, but have to say she overdid in even my opinion.
Burnett used the war to give motivation to these new mores.The main character, Robin, is believable because her unusual history has been set up in the first book.
The sequel to The Head of the House of Coombe, Robin deals much more with WWI and its aftermath.
The main two points seem to be "Spiritualism is right!
Completely right!
I talk to the deeeeeeaaaad" and "oh that Robin, so beautiful and perfect and pure and delicate.
We must protect her at all costs because she's just so darned feminine and fragile." Coombe was wonderful; I could barely finish the sequel.
The Head of the House of Coombe himself, btw, is a great character (if you like erudite, foppish, highly educated, too-clever British peers...) and well worth reading THotHoC.
I thought the first part was weird but you really have to read both books to get the full basket of odd that is this novel.
Then because it's a romance it has a twist you see coming for miles while still suddenly veering into nascent theories about psychology and metaphysics.
It reminded me of the Maisie Dobbs novels (which I love) and also of Georgette Heyer a more modern writer who wrote mildly feminist romances set in the regency era but Burnett pre-dates both authors by a century (I think).
I'm very glad my internet research got me reading Burnett's unknown works.
This book wasn't great but was a satisfying sequel. I have a deliciously soft leather bound copy with gold lettering on the spine. In this one Robin wastes away her nymph/sylph beauty on hearing that the man she had wed in secret is dead. There are some extremely sentimental scenes in fairytale woods, but they are tempered with the tangible horror of the German war machine creeping ever closer, beautiful manse turned hospitals, the wonderful character of the Head of the House of Coombs, et cetera.
This book is terrible and it pisses me off. Longer review to come later.
It was a sweet story until the middle, then turned very sad until the last page. Not one of my favorite old romances. They're usually much happier.
Read this book for free through Project Gutenberg: http://www.gutenberg.org/files/18945/...
