https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34510.Moving_Pictures
This is a re-read and I'm upping my rating because, well, let's face it: this is the start of a brand new chapter in the Discworld and it follows the main style that I have grown to love over all the rest of the books.
I was slow to love them at first, but as I continued to see Progress raise its great lumbering head above the trash heaps of Ankh-Morpork (from inside the river, of course,) I can't help but get all bubbly inside.Memorable moments, and there are a lot of them going well beyond this review, include a certain wild dash of the head magicians, a certain talking dog, Mr. Cut-Me-Own-Throat, and of course the clever use of the old Greek "anamnesis".
And of course the lambasting of old-time Holy Wood.
From then on, the crack between dimensions gets larger and larger and there is a mad dash for nothing less than saving the entire Discworld - because that is what a male lead does, right?Some old beloved characters such as the Librarian or Death as well as some new ones like Gaspode or the trolls spice up this story and it's a delight.
I'd heard about the industrial revolution books, of course, that form a group much like the ones about the witches or the City Watch, but I didn't think I'd like them too much because I want my Discworld to stay almost medieval in its atmosphere and feared the changes.
This most Lovecraftian of Terry Pratchett’s Discworld books (this being number TEN and first published in 1990) Moving Pictures, as a title of course makes me think of Rush’s brilliant 1981 album of the same name (Pratchett even makes droll word play just as in Rush’s cover art).Like so many of Sir Terry’s Discworld adventures, he liberally sprinkles popular and cultural references throughout and besides the ubiquitous Lovecraft allusions, he also turns The Camera Eye to a Philip K.
Pratchett has fun aplenty making fun of Hollywood and he also introduces more fantastic Discworld characters, the best being Cut-me-own-throat Dibbler, Discworld’s capitalistic icon.
I'm stingy with my 5 star ratings and considered going with a 4 here, but I really enjoyed this read.
It is hilarious.
From Trolls who don't want to get "type cast" (I played a troll who runs out and hits him with a rock) to a talking wonder dog who can't get noticed because he's too "scruffy" the cliches of the movies get very skewered.
Everyone is headed to (the?)"Holy Wood" to be a star.
So, Grab yourself a "sausage on a bun" and some "banged grains" find a comfortable spot and enjoy.
I wasn't under the weather this time, and again, I enjoyed, but didn't love it! Maybe I should just save the Terry Pratchetts for times when I'm sick. It's a weird quirk. Or maybe it's just that I love the Watch books, but haven't fallen for the rest of the universe quite so hard.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
but when it's being written by Terry Pratchett why would you want to?Moving Pictures, Pratchett's Discworld parody of Hollywood, appeals to me a great deal purely as a cinephile and wannabe film maker but as it's Pratchett it's also brilliant and brilliantly funny filled with wicked caricatures and wonderful characters, and of course evil puns aplenty.In this must-read episode you get to know more about the Del Boy like trader Cut-me-own-throat Dibbler who is possessed by the ghost of Cecil B.
I love Pratchett and the Discworld but there are few DW books I didn't enjoy as much. Don't get me wrong this is funny book but nothing more than that and I come to expect lot more from Discworld. Simply there there is no that brilliance, sharp wit and excellent quotable dialogues that best of the books in the series seem to have in abundance.
Sounds like wholesome family entertainment, does it not?Well...since this sprang from the mind of Terry Pratchett, expect chaos and devastation, licentious landladies, mass hysteria, dogs and cats sharing conversations...S-o-o-o-o...in a world gone mad - a thousand elephants will cross a mountain, wizards will don fake beards over their real beards, a dog will advise some budding mammalian thespians, "Who's going to pay good money to see cats and mice chasing one another?", and the world may just end as a giant woman climbs a tall building while clutching a screaming ape.Of course, there will also be a few useful tidbits of information, like why it takes exactly SIX imps to make a moving picture.And then there's my new favorite expression, though I don't really know what it actually means - "Don't come the raw trilobite with me."Can't wait to use that one on one of the kids.
The characters were ok, and I really liked Gaspode the talking dog, but I was bored by the story.At the beginning of the book, an old man living alone in a remote area called Holy Wood dies.
I don’t know if Gaspode has any real-world film equivalent, but he was the best part of the book.This is the first book in the Industrial Revolution subseries of Discworld.
I’m feeling a little skeptical about this subseries now, but maybe I’ll like the other books better.
Except for Rincewind, though, I don’t feel like I’ve read enough books in any one subseries to choose any favorites.
This is my second time reading this book, with my first when it first came out.
I didn't particularly like it much back then and I didn't realize at the time how many ongoing Discworld characters were introduced here.In an area near the city of Ankh-Morpork the last follower of an ancient religion dies without passing on his knowledge.In Ankh-Morpork itself a group of alchemists discover the secret of a nearly-not-explosive new technology for making moving pictures, and those moving pictures are strangely compelling.Soon, there's a new area just outside Ankh-Morpork called Holy Wood that's inexplicably attracting huge numbers of people who want to work there and get into moving pictures.
This time around I appreciated it all a lot more, although I'm still fairly sure I missed some of the references.
I liked Victor, how he’d managed to just barely not pass his wizarding exam multiple times so he could stay in school and how his basic decency helped save the day when things started going wrong in Holy Wood.
It wasn’t, like several of the other Pratchett books I’ve read, so continuously LOL funny that I had to read parts of it aloud to people (whether they wanted me to or not).
Although I like reading and movies as an escape from the drudgeries of real life, I also sometimes think I’ve spent too much time indulging.
I learned a little about the Librarian before from some comment thread here on Goodreads (Oook!), and I already appreciate his way with language, and I know I'm going to see this guy again.What I liked most about the book is the unique (to me) kind of humor, and what I like least is the humor as well.
But I'm going to explore the Discworld world further, learn more about the characters and maybe even encounter a dragon or three at some point.
For some reason I thought there would be dragons in this book.
Luckily I found this nice little cardboard dragon.
This is going onto my pile of favorite Discworld books.
I just loved all the movie references, the typical Pratchett humor had me laughing throughout, and Gaspode the Wonder Dog is now one of my favorite characters.
Most of the main characters were new, but there were plenty of other characters we met previously that made numerous appearances - The Librarian, trolls, wizards, our friends from The Watch.
The ending played tug-of-war with my heart strings, but that just made it all that more exciting.
I better make sure to have plenty of banged grains ready.
"Yüzlerce insan, gerçekte ne olmak istediğini Holy Wood sayesinde anlıyor," dedi Ginger.
Hepimizi."Diskdünya'nın tekinsiz birçok büyüsüne bir yenisi ekleniyor ve çorak toprakların kalbinden, tahtalardan ibaret bir kasaba doğuyor: Holy Wood.Victor Tugelbend, bu yeni ve büyülü sektörün ilk büyük jönü olmaya hazırlanırken, Ginger da edepsiz kıyafetlerine bürünerek ona eşlik ediyor.
konuşuyor olmak.Eh, Holy Wood büyüsü bunu yapıyor işte: İnsanları hiç olmadıkları şeylere dönüştürüyor.
Siyah beyaz filmlerin, beyazperdenin cıva yoğunluğundaki nostaljisiyle okuru alıp sürüklüyor.Holy Wood’u anlamak istiyorsanız, dedi Victor seneler sonra, binalarını anlamalısınız.Kumların üzerinde bir kutu görürdünüz.
Sivrimsi bir çatısı olurdu ama aslında bu önemli değildi, çünkü Holy Wood’da asla yağmur yağmazdı.
Discworld goes to Hollywood21 May 2013 I must admit that this was not one of my favourite of Pratchett's books but I suspect that if I end up reading it again, the score might go up and the review may change, however we are getting to a point where maybe the best of Pratchett's Discword content is behind him and he is exploring other avenues to try and get a laugh. Okay, Pratchett does more than try to get a laugh, and in a way it is sort of like the Simpsons where Pratchett uses a fantasy world
When the global financial crisis hit I suggested to my boss that one way to actually kick start the economy was to increase the pay of the average worker so that they had more disposable income to go and buy stuff.
The thing is that the more money there is in the hands on the ordinary person, the more people there are wanting to buy limited amounts of stuff, which means the price of that stuff increases to meet that demand.
However, the catch is also that the less people buying stuff, the less money companies are making, which means more people out of work.
No es un libro de los más destacables de Mundodisco, por lo menos de los que he leído, pero siempre es un gusto volver a leer a Pratchett y su mundo. En esta ocasión nos adentramos en el mundo de Holywood visto desde el punto de vista del Mundodisco. Mi personaje favorito ha sido Gaspode, el perro maravilla y como siempre Pratchett deja frases para el recuerdo: "En el interior de cada anciano hay un joven preguntándose qué demonios ha pasado". Pronto volveré al Disco con El Segador.
On this occasion my memory was correct, this may be the weakest Pratchett book until the football one released a few years back.Now don’t get me wrong, even a bad Pratchett book is worth reading, and this wasn’t a complete waste of time.
Some kind of greater magic is in place, and in some ways the films start making themselves, going in directions the actors and directors don’t expect.
But if I, admitted Pratchett fanboy, struggle through a book of his I have to go with my gut.3 stars.
“The whole of life is just like watching a film. Only it's as though you always get in ten minutes after the big picture has started, and no-one will tell you the plot, so you have to work it out all yourself from the clues.”  Holy Wood. The alchemists on the Discworld discover the magic of motion pictures! This novel parodies the creation of film, and the developments it went through in the first thirty or so years of its existence. Gone With the Wind fans might find a lot of Easter eggs in he
“The whole of life is just like watching a film.
Gone With the Wind fans might find a lot of Easter eggs in here!I was pretty excited about this one, being someone working in the film industry with a love of film history.
Sadly, it was a bit dull.My enjoyment of a Discworld novel, and many other people's as well I'm sure, usually hinges on the cast of characters in that novel.
I usually love Terry Pratchett's references to our world, but not in this case where the entire plot depended on them.
I have a lot of friends who swear by Pratchett, but I found him rather dull.
A friend suggested this as one of his better outings, so I bit.He seems to harp on the most obvious jokes, extending one-note gags into paragraphs, chapters, or even whole books.
His generic fantasy world full of groan-worthy jokes reminds me of endlessly 'punny' American author Piers Anthony (thankfully, without the nods to pedophilia).
As a Brit, Pratchett does have a certain refreshing command of language, but it's not enough to escape the huckster jokeyism.My Fantasy Book Suggestions
This 10th book (in publication order) of the Discworld series was a lot of fun. As a fan of classic movies, I loved all the little parodies of them that occurred throughout the book. The best one may have been the spoof of King Kong when instead of Fay Wray and the giant ape climbing the Empire State building, Pratchett gives us a giant woman and an orangutan (the Librarian) climbing the Tower of Art!
Executive Summary: After being pretty s0-so on Eric, I really enjoyed this one a lot. It's right up there with Guards! Guards! I'd say. Full Review It's been awhile since my last Discworld read. A lot longer than I had realized. I had been planning to read a book every other month or so. I'm stubbornly determined to read the books in publication order, and I'm finding some of these early books uneven.That's not the case with this book. I really enjoyed it a lot. It might be that I'm huge movie f
Executive Summary: After being pretty s0-so on Eric, I really enjoyed this one a lot.
I had been planning to read a book every other month or so.
I really enjoyed it a lot.
It might be that I'm huge movie fan, and loved all the little easter eggs, and "in" jokes that you might not get if you hadn't seen the movie being referenced.The characters themselves are mostly forgettable save some of the recurring ones who make cameos: DEATH, the Librarian, and Cut-Me-Own-Throat Dibbler.
In fact Dibbler is probably one of the main characters in this book, rather than just a minor character in Guards!
Guards!.That said, I didn't really need great characters to enjoy this one.
It’s fine.
This is a totally fine book to start with in the world of Discworld.
I think it’s all setup for a final punchline: (view spoiler)[A giant pretty woman climbs a tower while holding an Ape.
(hide spoiler)]Some fun bits:Inside every old person is a young person wondering what happened.The universe contains any amount of horrible ways to be woken up, such as the noise of the mob breaking down the front door, the scream of fire engines, or the realization that today is the Monday which on Friday night was a comfortably long way off.
It’s like having a small piece of defrosting liver pressed lovingly against you.She was a beefy young woman and, whatever piece of music she was playing, it was definitely losing.
And it calls C.M.O.T. Dibbler, the greatest opportunist and worst entrepreneur in Ankh-Morpork.Without really knowing why, they all head to Holy Wood, where the sun always shines and the clicks can be made on the cheap.
Through them, the people of Ankh-Morpork can dream as well.All those dreams, though, are a shining beacon for Things that live beyond the boundaries of our universe.
By bringing dreams to life, the people of Holy Wood risk dooming the world to nightmares.I could, if I wanted, just start to catalog all the movie references that Pratchett makes in this book, but that would be ridiculous.
*Terry Pratchett ve Diskdünya okumuyorsanız çok şey kaçırdığınızı söylemek istiyorum.
İlk kitabı aldığınız ama beğenmediyseniz bile bu tek başına çoğu insanın evinde bulunan kitap sayısından fazla romana sahip olan seride kendinize yakın bulacağınız bir tanesi illa ki vardır.
**Her Diskdünya romanın da olduğu gibi popüler kültüre atıflarla bezenmiş bir Holywood parodisiydi.
Kameranın diskdünya versiyonu keşfeden simyacılar (sihirbaz değiller), ünlü olmak isteyen diskdünyanın dört köşesinden, her ırkından bir araya gelerek, dışardaki şeyler tarafından ele geçirilenler tarafından kurulan, Holy Wood hikayesi.
****Eksik olan şeyse güldürü dozunun çok az kalması, karakterlerinden çokta hoşlanmamam ve o lanet olası Oswald'ın, Osric'in tamamen oscar heykelciğine benzemesiydi.
Oscar Heykelciği değil.
Pictures that move us emotionally, stills changed so fast they are perceived to be in motion, frames of pictures moved location to location, and the title of Pratchett’s tenth DiscWorld book*.
Even the wizards trade pretenses for the magic of cinema.If Pratchett had produced a movie, I hope he would have filmed Moving Pictures.
Contemplation aside, Moving Pictures is also pure fun with plenty of romance, mystery, evil giant Things, heart-tugs and suspense.
My personal take is that there are too many moving parts and movie puns competing for screentime that the more meaningful subtleties are relegated to background scenes.
Usually I have no trouble retaining interest in a Terry Pratchett/Discworld novel, but this one I had to force myself to finish.
By following such a narrow path as he did in this book (with the straight on Hollywood/Holy Wood parody), he didn't leave himself much room for creativity, and that it made it feel forced.
All the movie quotes and allusions to Golden Age Hollywood were all very clever, but left me feeling cold.
In fact, now that I think about it, all of my least favorite Discworlds are straight parodies: Wyrd Sisters (Macbeth), Eric (a combination of Dr. Faustus, Dante's Inferno, The Iliad), etc.
I thought this was such an interesting concept, and one I wish Pratchett had spent more time developing, instead of shoehorning in as many references to classic Hollywood films as possible in a 200+ page book.
Instead, we get pages devoted to not one but two talking dogs; the stupid intricacies of troll courting rituals; and descriptions of an idol at the defunct first temple of Holy Wood that looks like “everyone’s uncle Osric” and is in fact a giant man made of gold, meant to resemble an Oscar statuette.
Eventually, things go awry when Victor discovers an ancient camera that’s also a portal to the Dungeon Dimension and they have to fight off monsters.This book also finally has the introduction of Archchancellor Ridcully!
There they were, a happy bunny worried mostly about cabbage and sex, and all the sudden it finds itself pondering the meaning of life and all that.All things said, this isn’t exactly a favorite of mine, but it was really nice to revisit it since it’s been a long time since I read it.
Dopo aver letto l'ennesimo libro di Pratchett (ok ok sono solo tre finora, ma aumenteranno!), mi è sorta spontanea una domanda: come diavolo è possibile che nessuno abbia ancora trasformato i suoi libri in film???
Ma passiamo al libro: la fantasia che possiede quest'uomo è sconfinata e usata in modo intelligente (l'ho per caso già detto?), e la trama è abbondantemente condita con molto, molto humor, uno humor peraltro godibilissimo (finalmente!!!
E alla faccia di tutti quegli scrittori inglesi che sfornano libri penosi, spacciandoli per british humor, che se poi non ti piacciono alla fine è quasi colpa tua che non sei abbastanza intelligente da capirlo).
"Davvero?""Era solo un teschio"."Di chi?""Non l'ha detto" rispose Gaspode.
The Unseen University and the Patrician feature in ways to that connect to earlier stories, but the main characters and their tale stand-alone.
Those who read the series will see him forcibly adjusting the world-building because he didn't really like the set-up he had given it at first.But an old man dies and realizes too late that he had not trained a successor to continue lighting the ritual fire.
And things start to happen as not quite real things seep into Discworld in search of more reality.
C.M.O.T. Dibbler takes over a studio for more dramatic and entertaining pieces than its founder, who found it all educational, and gets started on his epic of love in a world gone mad: Blown Away.
