https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/274826.Propaganda
This is the third book concerning technology and society that really changed the way I think about the world.
As with The Technological Society and Mumford's Pentagon of Power, this book contains many ideas and concepts that turn our normal worldviews upside down.
He states that Propaganda is necessary for modern societies to function and that they play an integral part in the power structures that run them.
It is part of current complex social relations involving media and the political, economic and technological forces which influence and control them.
This is, put quite simply, a MUST read. It was written shortly after WWII and focuses on the propaganda machine of Goebbels. It is shocking how much of what is described in this book is the norm in today's "quality" of discourse. Truly prophetic.
I had every intention of reviewing this, but time started to get away from me, I couldn't read it all before returning it, but I decided to skim the contents to see if I wanted to request it again at a later time.
And what I found was something completely unexpected, a story within a book.
The book contained significant handwritten notes, marginalia, throughout the text and it told a story.
This page was the one that propelled me to read all the notes.If you're interested, please see the following link for the complete story: A Story Within a Book
This book is the most influential of my career in journalism, and one of the top 10 of my life. I read it almost 20 years ago, and I often reflect on it. It changed the way I analyze news media, politicians, and marketing. Although written in the 1960s, the components essential to propaganda that he outlines hold true. Given the weighty subject matter, it isn't a quick read, more one to pause and contemplate over coffee before moving to next chapter. Even still, Ellul's extreme passion for his theories at times made me chuckle.
Because the way he talked about the power of propaganda, what it does to people and the threat it is to democracy and thought seems incredibly relevant to today.
A man caught up in the news must remain on the surface of the event; be is carried along in the current, and can at no time take a respite to judge and appreciate; he can never stop to reflect.
Such a man never stops to investigate any one point, any more than he will tie together a series of news events...And, in fact, modern man does not think about current problems; he feels them.
While portions of it are a little dated or too caught up in the Cold War or focused on the forces which brought about the second world war, the insights he draws from them are not.
I've never read a description of just what propaganda is or why it is so dangerous and effective that was close to this good.
Ellul's background in Theology shines through in a lot of places and he is also concerned with understanding how the modern state and the ideologies competing for control of it have evolved to play the role once played by Christianity.
I'm actually reading this right now, so I'll update this as I am amazed and transformed by this highly underappreciated and brilliant Frenchman.
Also, as normal, the work is not prescriptive and does not tell the reader "what is to be done" about the problem of propaganda and its negative impact on human dignity.Ellul defines propaganda as "a set of methods employed by an organized group that wants to bring about the active or passive participation in its actions of a mass of individuals, psychologically unified through psychological manipulations and incorporated in an organization." (p 61) Along the lines of his The Technological Society, Ellul notes "Ineffective propaganda is no propaganda," and therefore effectiveness becomes the supreme criteria (p x) and "propaganda has decided to submit itself to science and make use of it" showing its evolution alongside technological society.
As such, I would contend that he is both theologically neo-orthodox and politically libertarian (extreme) but with a nod toward a classical Marxist perspective on the problems faced by 20th century societies.
Ellul contends early in the text that there is no way to study propaganda in an academic, social science, experimental, or controlled way.
According to Ellul, propaganda is the system we have brought on ourselves because we have rejected the simple understanding of the Christian gospel that brings both freedom and restraint to the individual.
This is among the few books to alter how I think of how the world presents itself.
Ellul has a talent for presenting complex ideas in readable text.
The book focuses on the conditions, uses, mediums, structures and belief systems needed for propaganda to flourish.
In addition, he identifies a working definition of propaganda that is repeated throughout the text to remind the reader of its ever-present influence in our daily lives.
This is as much a dissection of propaganda as it is a warning against homogenized idealistic constructions such as "western democracy" and its supposed infallibility - well done on all fronts.
A dense (with some technical jargon) philosophical work on the nature of man in a technical society, whether it be democratic or fascist. To consider that propaganda (as described by Ellul) is not only necessary, but also a natural outcome in a large and diverse modern society, is a rather bitter concept to swallow, but for me, Ellul makes an excellent case as to its diverse means and forms.
Excellent and clearly written. The translation is quite good. I learned more from this than I expected. Not a quick read because it makes you want to stop and think about so much of what we take for granted. The impact of propaganda goes much further than most people realize. That's a deliberate intention. Very relevant to today's issues.
Like Bergson who used to base his ramblings about life on popular drama characters he had seen in a play the night before, Ellul describes life on what he has seen on TV the night before.
the last annex that describes as real an imaginary technique of "brainwashing." No wonder France is a top consumer of Homeopathy.
Yet, somehow, his literary and rhetoric technique are good enough to convince other equally qualified people that his blend of TV and newspaper virtual reality are THE reality.
Not surprising, given how many people debate the Government's best path to achieve protection from anything ranging from fleas to terrorist attacks.
Scary, scary, scary.
Nor is it normally put together via conspiracy, as we tend to imagine, although sometimes that does happen.No, Ellul points out that most propaganda is the benign, sometimes even well-intentioned, shaping of public opinion as a necessary sociological consequence of mass, technological, democratic societies.
Whoever resides at the top of cultural life at any given time has no choice but to use propaganda because 1) people--especially intellectuals, who "absorb large amounts of second hand and unverifiable information, feel a compelling need to have opinions on important issues, and judge themselves as free-thinkers"--actually crave propaganda.
Otherwise the public will not absorb the new information.Another important point is that propaganda can no longer afford to be "false" in the obvious sense.
This book opened my eyes, I gained a whole new perspective to how the world really works.
I learned a lot about our views and mindsets are formed.
This book made me question a lot of things and it made me wonder whether our thoughts truly belong to us or not?
It reminded me of something very important, something I realized our society has neglected for quite a while now, to think critically, to think for one's self.
If you seek to wake up and see the world clearly.
Read this book.
I strongly recommend it to those readers who aren't afraid of the truth.
Written in the 1950s and generally holds up really well. The only changes that affect how the ideas described in it apply are ones that Ellul wouldn't necessarily have foreseen: the 24-hour news cycle, and the internet. With those two developments, the ability to bombard people with propaganda (having it stick more effectively) and target them more accurately has become less of an issue than it was when the book was written. Overall, very chilling and a little depressing, but should be required reading for everyone.
An interesting book on the way in which comprehensive propaganda is employed in the modern world (a bit dated now, but still good and helpful, covering ground others have ignored). Ellul is a Christian as well, so his approach is more interesting than just an academic approach to the subject.
I think I was halfway in reading this book before I got it, (a good thing I did too because it was required for school) and when I did, there is nothing like that feeling. It will challenge you and stretch your mind and thinking.
As in The Technological Society, Ellul examines, not the practice of propaganda, but the the underlying assumptions and ideology that gives rise to it--a much broader category of communication than commonly assigned to the term.
A very scary book.
An important book
Depressive, but needs to be read.
Should be mandatory reading in college, if not before. I was quite a bit older when I came upon it. But it's never too late. Provides a clear description of the mechanics of INFORMATION.
Essential reading if you live in a mass society.
I’ll be honest, this book was a challenge for me to read and comprehend. It is not a book one should read through quickly though I did. Ellul masterfully details the influence of propaganda throughout the world. He gives us a bleak picture of how propaganda is used and who uses it and the necessity of it. Propaganda is not too be taken lightly and Ellul has predicted the present and we all should be aware of how the world around us is changing our actions.
Well written and fairly thorough.My biggest problem was the lack of a coherentdefinition of propaganda in one place. I had to pieceone together as I read.
Excellent, unfortunately not published in Greek.
Very dense, but a very interesting read. Lots of fun to compare this book from 1962 to the current status of the world; especially his reflections on Democracy, the church, and TV.
For example, encouraging foreign resistance movements with promises of support that are not backed up with action does not produce friends; it just makes more enemies.Political propaganda is produced by governments.
More recently, there have been efforts to license news groups and to strictly define what constitutes "press" in order to deny various groups first amendment protections.One effect of long-term exposure to propaganda that Mr. Ellul noted is a neurosis that makes it impossible for people to listen to or even tolerate messages that differ from their own belief systems.
