https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1566053.The_Portable_Atheist
Yes. That and about a thousand other reasons.It’s a good thing that atheists are now making themselves heard after centuries of oppression but I don’t like the way the argument has gone.
Okay, it probably needs to be said (but Christopher, not 15 times over) but this is not a debate about belief.AND ANYWAYThe atheists denounce Christianity and Islam (the two main disturbers of the peace in this book) as if, with their suppression, none of this xenophobic, misogynistic and fratricidal violence would ever have happened.

I would not call myself an atheist, but a some of what is collected in this book rings true to me.
If I had to guess, the existence (or non) of the truth of god lies in the analysis of Dawkins' Spaghetti Monster (which does not make much of an appearance here).Oh well.
The quest continues.-mp.s. The worst part of this book lies in the fact that it seems to be a money-grab by Hitchens.
As a side note, this book is far from portable.
His contributions to Vanity Fair, The Atlantic, Foreign Policy and Prospect were invaluable, his prose inimitable.But when it comes to spiritual beliefs the guy was a cretin.For all his erudition he never grokked that many humans have a desire to worship something outside themselves and that desire or need does not automatically make them stupid, deluded, evil or dangerous.That was always Chris' problem: people's needs and weaknesses constituted a target for his rage.
Once, in the early 90's at a briefing at Chapters Bookstore during the Serbian conflict he YELLED at some poor guy asking for some clarification on who was who.
(3) Marx: Ever wondered what the "opium of the people" really means?(4) Mencken: A witty memorial service to all the "dead" gods(5) Einstein: Always one of the best when it comes to collecting eloquent and humorous short quotes(6) Russell: Puts superstition to task.(7) Mackie: Discusses possible consequences of adopting atheism(8) Shermer: Excellent parody of what one would have to believe if one wishes to reconcile what we know scientifically today with the teachings of the Bible.
(10) Stenger: The best attack on the cosmological arguments for God.(11) Anderson: Wonderful summary of the type of moral things God does in the Bible, tells others to do, or simply permits.
He freed the body from chains because he enchained the heart.There is a brilliant essay by H.L. Mencken of all the “dead” religions.Page 146They were gods of the highest standing and dignity – gods of civilized peoples – worshipped and believed in by millions.
This is the battle Voltaire was fighting.The longest essay is by Ibn Warraq and is scathing on both Islam and Christianity.Page 395 Ibn WarraqIs it fitting that an All-Powerful, Omniscient, and Omnipotent God should revise His commands so many times?
First, the words the jump to my mind after reading this book are, "holier than thou," "dogmatic," "exclusive," and well, many others that are used by atheists against people of faith.
Healthy debate is part of that decision making, which is why I liked reading this book.
For example, in the George Elliot entry, the author(s) sort of pick at the person and work of Rev. John Cumming.
I do understand that this book is presenting "slices" of historical readings, but the author does add his own comments, and therefore could touch on this and contemporary advances that have occurred since Rev. Cumming.
Christopher Hitchens, why so angry? This is an interesting collection of essays, fiction, articles and arguments, compiled by the acidic and immature Hitchens. When Hitchens is NOT speaking, this proves evocative reading. When he is, it's annoying - like listening to a teenage girl on a cell phone on the train fighting with her boyfriend-of-the-week about "I know you are, but what am I? Shut up no you shut up you stupidhead meanyperson."
The Portable Atheist: Essential Readings for the Nonbeliever   is a collection of essays by various authors who have addressed the topic of atheism and/or agnosticism throughout the years. Although there are a few gems to be found (Hitchen’s introduction, essays by Sigmund Freud and Mark Twain, Salman Rushdie to name a few), most of the articles are pure drudgery written by long-winded philosophers who appear to have been paid by the word (or page). I particularly hated the section from Einstei
The book is laid out chronologically and, in general, the essays do get somewhat better the further towards the end of the book you go.I suspect that in putting together a book of this sort, that it is rather easy to load it up with material from dead authors - since their work is in the public domain and thus no royalties need be paid.
Unfortunately, it doesn’t appear that anyone felt the need to cull the material for unique or interesting ideas.
One thing I did find interesting is how many of the writings echo the sentiments put forth by the new atheists (Dawkins, Harris and Hitchens).
This is a collection of some of the greatest Atheistic, or at least skeptical writings, selected and abridged by Hitchens with short introductions to each as well as a longer opening introduction.
While that longer essay is a bit of a period piece not up to the standard of most of Hitchens writing, his shorter intros are delightful.
One hardly needs to be an Atheist or even secular to ponder over and enjoy The Portable Atheist, and the high quality of most of the material makes it one of Hitchens' best endeavors in his particular brand of argumentative secularism.
Religion is the most perverse ,dangerous and destructive force in the world,and even God,s favorite 
This would be more properly titled "The Portable Anti-Religion: Essential Readings for the Angry Atheist".
I really despise books and arguments that portend to be atheistic but are really just arguments against religion.
When you are arguing to be atheistic, you should start from the assumption of atheism, instead of spending a whole volume arguing against it.
This book clearly wasn't written for the "non-believer" because it spends the entire span of the book arguing against religion and trying to convince readers of its evil.
Don't waste your money, unless you are looking for an argument to be an atheist, and you can come up with plenty reasons on your own.
Lot of insights from the notions of several great thinkers.
Irrespective of your views on Atheism, it's essential to read through some of the essays to get a lot better ideas and visions on life.
Since my inception on curiously knowing about the world (mostly western, which I was oblivious of) I had found a lot of wonderful, wiser brave persons.Glad this book actually helped me find more.
This book contains 47 essays of people who lived on diversified eras and with diversified visions.
“Kuhn is thanking God because he has not been chosen.
An outstanding collection of essays and extracts from godless and freethinking writers throughout the ages.
Amongst the highlights are the pamphlet for which Shelly was thrown out of university and contributions from Bertrand Russell, Mark Twain, Thomas Jefferson and Tom Paine.
Some, such as Thomas Hardy and HL Mencken consign gods to the grave of history, while others argue strong cases for a morality that does not rely on the promise of reward or the threat of punishment from a creator.
While some of the writings are distinctly anti-theistic, others argue for the wisdom of agnosticism.
This compendium will last a while, but dipping in here and there seems the best approach.
There are some interesting essays from the early part of the last century that were important in convincing my father to get over believing in god(s).I wasn't planning on buying the book, but just happened to be browsing it at Powell's when my friend Chris Faatz, one of our great free-range intellectuals (and a Buddhist), stopped to say hello.
He knew the book and pointed several essays that recommends.
In fact, Chris almost had me buying a shelf of books to go with this one.
The late great Christopher Hitchens selects forty seven essays by some of the most influential atheist/agnostic minds.
This 528-page book is composed of forty seven essays by some of the most influential atheists/agnostics including heavyweights like: Einstein, Sagan, Russell, Darwin, Twain, Hume, Spinoza, Mill, Dawkins, Harris and many others.Positives: 1.
Great and diverse selection of atheist/agnostic essays.2.
Cosmological argument put under the scrutiny of great minds.12.
Elizabeth Anderson provides one of the strongest essays of this book.
The great thing about a book about essays is that you can skip over the ones you don’t like.
It is important to note that some of the writings that were included despite not being written by self-proclaimed atheists, but Hitchens is good at pointing these out and giving his reasons for including them - so all in all, the book is probably the better for it.Don't let the title mislead you, this 500 page paperback is "portable" only in the sense that this anthology is compacted with an abundance of informative content.
Ugh. I wrote an entire review and then it got deleted before I could save it.Okay, quick points then:First: This volume and a lot of the other work of the "new" atheists are extremely useful to those who are halfway between belief and unbelief.
What atheists should be doing, alongside deconstructing the absurdities of religion, is developing a rational belief system for people to come to.
Instead, it's on the firebrands like Hitchens, Dawkins, and Harris.And yes, I realize the irony of an atheist complaining that the loudest, most extreme voices are the ones getting the most attention.Second, we need to start recognizing that a fight against religion is a fight against a symptom, not a disease.
In The Portable Atheist, Hitchens has assembled a surprisingly diverse collection of first rate writing by non-believers.
(Those readers might like to try Guy P Harrison's excellent '50 Reasons People Give for Believing in a God'.) As others have said, Hitch's compendium is considerably less 'portable' than the average paperback, but if you compare it with a whole bookshelf from which these extracts have been taken, you start to appreciate the aptness of the title.
Whether you're an atheist, an agnostic, or just someone who appreciates fine writing, The Portable Atheist is highly recommended.
(9) Dawkins: Probably the best presented argument for the unlikelihood of the existence of God, and a good refutation of some of the most powerful objections of theists.
(10) Stenger: The best attack on the cosmological arguments for God.
(11) Anderson: Wonderful summary of the type of moral things God does in the Bible, tells others to do, or simply permits.
Also good for those that do not really understand the type of things actually written in Islamic religious doctrine (or for that matter, how these religious books came about).


I'd been avoiding reading this as I didn't want to hear him whingeing on about how oppressed he feels as an atheist or whatever, but I was pleasantly surprised that you don't hear much from him beyond the introduction. It's a collection of atheist-ish writing from great thinkers throughout history and is really well put together. I found it easier to get into some than others (skipped past some) but some lovely stuff. I particularly enjoyed the Omar Khayyam section, which was just beautiful. I have the Rubaiyat in the house and may well read the whole thing now.
Some thoughts from reading snippets of this tome for my job . . .1. At 500 pages and a few pounds, this is anything but "portable"2. For people who don't believe in a God, they spend an awful lot of time and energy talking about Him.3. If this is a true representation of atheists, then they are egotistical, arrogant, vile, cruel, hate-filled, and generally depressive people.
It's hard to rate a compilation of essays and excerpts. My favorite 5 star sections were by Mark Twain, Emma Goldman, H.P. Lovecraft, Carl Sagan, Richard Dawkins, and Ayaan Hirsi Ali. I also liked Ibn Warraq's section from "Why I Am Not a Muslim". I know little about Islam aside from propaganda and the selections from the Koran were eye-opening. Interesting bunch of heretical writings.
i've avoided this type of book for years, thinking that it would just be 'preaching to the choir' (as it were) and that i wouldn't really get much out of it. turns out that i have a lot to learn! this is like a 'primer' for skeptics, agnostics, and atheists.
There is even a rather amusing essay by Penn Jillette – the larger, more loquacious half of the comedic duo Penn & Teller.Here is a favorite passage of mine, which comes from the poem God’s Funeral, by Thomas Hardy:And tricked by our own early dreamAnd need of solace, we grew self-deceivedOur making soon our maker did we deemAnd what we had imagined we believed.It is difficult to ascertain if TPA is perhaps just a collection of Hitchens’ favorite atheists, rather than the definitive volume of non-believing luminaries, but each selection is deliciously well-chosen and represent a compendium of some of the sharpest literature in anti-theology.
I sought out this book because the bits of writing I'd seen in the past by Christopher Hitchens were extremely insightful and articulate, and to honor his recent passing away I figured it was time to read one of his works.
Only upon checking out this book from the library did I unfortunately realize that this is a compilation of a variety of authors' writings on non-belief, with a foreword by Hitchens at the start as well as brief contextual prefaces to each individual piece.
I decided the book was still worth reading, though now I still need to get my actual Hitchens fix.
If you read about atheism, you are probably familiar with the work of the late Christopher Hitchens, and his most famous contemporaries, Richard Dawkins, Sam Harris and Dan Dennett.
In The Portable Atheist, Hitchens offers readers the opportunity to expand their horizons with an anthology containing 47 essays and excerpts on unbelief.
This collection offers dozens of arguments against the existence of a deity, but it is also a book about the evolution of unbelief in Western culture.
The book weighs in at a hefty (and somewhat less than portable) 499 pages and yet undoubtedly could have included many more selections.
The Portable Atheist is a compilation of extracts from the canons of many famous philosophers, scientists, and writers (47 in all), assembled by Christopher Hitchens.
The extracts range from a couple of pages, for example Charles Templeton’s Questions to Ask Yourself (‘if God is a loving father, why does he seldom answer his needy children’s prayers’), to poems (the paraphrased translation Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam, a piece of 10th century Persian poetry, is a delight), and longer extracts, such as that from Ibn Warraq’s Why I Am Not a Muslim, which is a devastating 50 page deconstruction of the Qu’ran.
