https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/74090.The_Birthday_Party
The Birthday Party is the play I'd give to someone if I really wanted them to be scared shitless by Harold Pinter.
There is no easy way into Pinter so it's best to just crash-land into his work.
If you are in any way familiar with my humour then you've probably already guessed that I adore this play.
Pinter is one of those writers who I feel would be hilarious at funerals.
The drum beat, the fricative verbal tennis matches, everything in this play feels like it's counting down to something.
The play has been classified as a comedy of menace, characterised by Pinteresque elements such as ambiguous identity, confusions of time and place, and dark political symbolism.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیستم ماه آوریل سال 2004 میلادیعنوان: جشن تولد، به همراه نقدی از استیون اچ.
گیل؛ نویسنده: هارولد پینتر؛ مترجم: شعله آذر؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، انتشارات افراز، چاپ نخست 1385، در 234 ص؛ شابک چاپ دوم در سال 1388: 9789647640978؛جشن تولد دومین نمایشنامه‌ ی بلندِ «هارولد پینتر»، و از پراجراترین و مشهورترین نمایشنامه‌ های ایشانست.
جشن تولد نمایشنامه‌ ای ست درباره ی استنلی وِبِر، پیانونواز سابق، که در مسافر خانه‌ ای کوچک زندگی می‌کند.
Oh, gee.
As with Shaw & Beckett, Pinter's first work is not without its...
charm.
The "uselessness and bleakness" angle so articulately employed in "Godot" is present here as well-- there is an aimlessness, a sense of character alienation on an individual basis-- perhaps actual just sound and fury signifying nil.
All the characters seem to be pawns in that "Classical Narrative" sort of way--but they are obvious embodiments of other things-- FOR SURE.
Pinter seems like the most surreal (hooray!) of the three amigos-- but I wonder how he holds up against titans like Albee or even Eugene O'Neill.
It looks like Pinter had ideas about a lot of tricks - mostly aimed at confusing the audience like ambiguous identity, confusions of time and place etc. And Pinter does write his first play that display all those tricks. The problem is that the tricks are all you get. There is not much of plot or understandable characters. It is like a dish made entirely of spices.
با این حال وقتی که گلدبرگ و مک کان به آن جا می رسند، او هیچ تلاشی برای فرار نمی کند، چون می داند که نمی تواند از دست سرنوشت فرار کند.
این جشن با اشارات و کنایه های جنسی لولو ی جوان و گلدبرگ مسن تر، استنلی را معضب می کند.
تعریف گلدنربگ و مک کان از خطرات این است که که خطر همیشه در این دنیا حضور دارد و منتظر است تا آرامش، عقل و حتی زندگی افراد را از آن ها بگیرد.شخصیت های نمایشنامه هیچ توانی در دفاع از خودشان ندارند، چون نمی توانند خود را به دیگری بفهمانند و در برقراری ارتباط با همدیگر مشکل دارند.
You're nothing but an odour!Goldberg and McMann eviscerate Stanley.
Stanley takes the birthday drum kit and beats it.
If the right actor had this part it would be the rising call of every time you ever hated yourself and felt helpless and didn't know what to do.
Maybe this is what happens to you when you don't do anything.The Birthday Party is my least favorite Harold Pinter play that I've read thus far.
When he walks down the stairs and Goldberg makes his promise and Stanley's body shudders and he's "the same old Stan".
I had the feeling he gave up after his birthday drum song.
there are hundreds of "how-to-write-a-play" books which you can find in every bookstore and I bet 99% of 'em has pulled out something outta this play as sort of an instance, so you choose to read this play and you're really excited about it.
you've even got this assumption that you're gonna read something absurd, but from what you've read in past, absurd plays usually have several layers and those people who reach to the deepest layer are the most satisfied readers of the book.
I mean while you're reading the play, you're anticipating THAT turning point which will clarify lots of vague things, but there comes the last page and the turning point is not arrived yet!
If you are a literature student and haven't read this play, go sue your university.If you're a literature student, you've read the play and hated it, go sell your degree.If you are a literature student, have read the play and are indifferent to it, I understand.If you're a layman and you've read the play, bravo!Honestly, I don't know how I'd have reacted if I'd read the play when I was younger.
But literature develops taste for all things.Be forewarned.
If you are a layman and still want to read it, you'd probably want to read up on what to expect in absurd literature.
Harold Pinter, l'ami et collaborateur de Samuel Beckett, a développé un sous-genre du théâtre de l'absurde qui s'appelle le "théâtre de menace" dont "L'anniversaire" est une des pièces les plus marquantes.
Mon expérience personnelle est que sur la scène les pièces de Pinter sont beaucoup plus puissantes que celles de son maitre.
C'est très étonnant la première que l'on assiste à une pièce qui n'a ni conflit dramatique ni dénouement ni explication de qui sont les personnages.
Malgré fait que je suis bien blasé par le théâtre de l'absurde, cette pièce a gardé mon intérêt du début jusqu'à la fin.
What makes the toilet bowl in an art gallery a work of art as opposed to it being simply a lavatory for public use is that it’s installed by an artist instead of a plumber and that an art critic (or somebody who wants to call you a philistine) comes along and attachs meaning to the toilet bowl.Well I don’t go in for that kind of crap.
Next day, it’s as if nothing happened (suggestions here and there re Lulu and Goldberg spending the night together) except that the two interrogators take Stanley (who appears to have suffered a nervous breakdown) with them when they leave, ostensibly to see a doctor (Monty).You could interpret this play a hundred different ways.
read this for uni a while ago. really really unsettling, as i expected it to be. the interrogation scene will always remain in my mind.
ابزورد اما نه به کیفیت بکتنمایشنامه درد بیچارگی آدمی ست که با انزوا هم کارش درست نمی شود و هر چه می خواهد از مهلکه دور بماند بالاخره پایش گیر است و گویی هر رفتاری حتی در زندانی نمادین خود را پنهان کردن ، کنشی محسوب می شود و چاره ای برای فرار نیست، پس بهتر که به جای چشم بستن و گوشه نشینی ، اعتراض را چاره کنیم ، پینتر این را نمی گوید ولی من این طور نتیجه گرفتم !!!!
First reading: 10th May 2016Second reading 13th May 2017پنج ستاره هم ميتونستم بدم بهشااا! ولي خوبه همين چهار...
I have absolutely no idea what I just read but it was really weird and I'm weird too so I liked it.
a brilliant, confusing, and shocking play .... it takes hours and hours to talk about.
https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b083...Recommended by Brazilliant, it has been many years since first encountering this.
Wonder if this revisit with Toby Jones will tickle me into a better opinion.Description:  Stanley, an erstwhile pianist lives in a dingy seaside boarding house run by Meg and Petey.
They turn Stanley's birthday party into a menacing and terrifying encounter.
Stanley .....
Jaime WinstoneDirector/Producer Gary BrownBrought to you by the word 'succulent'An Irishman and a Jew walk into a seaside boarding house.
For the 70th anniversary, Drama on 3 presents a new production of The Birthday Party, now considered a Pinter classic, but which on its first London opening only lasted a week.<
From BBC Radio 3 - Drama on 3:Stanley, an erstwhile pianist lives in a dingy seaside boarding house run by Meg and Petey.
They turn Stanley's birthday party into a menacing and terrifying encounter.
Franz Kafka meets Donald McGill in Pinter’s iconic comedy of menace.Stanley .....
Jaime WinstoneDirector/Producer Gary BrownAn Irishman and a Jew walk into a seaside boarding house.
For the 70th anniversary, Drama on 3 presents a new production of The Birthday Party, now considered a Pinter classic, but which on its first London opening only lasted a week.https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b083...
I feel a little confused but in a mind-blown way.
I feel a lot of pathos for Stanley, who has his comfortably peaceful although mundane life disturbed by two strangers (who really put the 'strange' in 'strangers'!) staying at the boarding-house in just one day.
But Stanley himself is such an enigma to me too, it's hard to feel very personally for him.
I like how Harold Pinter approaches the complex concept of the human condition/psyche by seriously perplexing his audience/readers along the way!
Harold Pinter is a magician with dialogue and the whole dramatic pacing, it doesn't get boring at all!
It's a play in which very little of importance is said – there are no monologues which I would like to quote, in fact, I did not highlight a single passage, a rather unusual feat in my reading history.
Barely anything said is of consequence in a grander perspective, and the communications often feel like miscommunications between the characters.
What is never said, what does not happen, is more telling about these people than what actually happens.
Not sure what to make of this, I didn't know what to expect from it at the beginning. Need to do some research into what it's themes are meant to be/what it's actually meant to be about (haha). Some great quotes though, especially the one about a body in the morning being like a corpse that needs to be washed.EDIT:After reading more in depth into it's themes of individual resistance, oppression and a yearning for past times now gone, I appreciate this play much more.
a play depicting the modern rootlessness of man, who is wandering with no origin and no destination. He can be involved in dual relationship of being a lover and a surrogate son. There is something always lurking which haunts him so that he is not able to articulate himself fully. The Postmodernism predominates and in the wake of it, the danger, futility, absurdity, terror, guilt, nothingness, all prevails, which never allows the protagonist to rest, and there is no solace for him.
Absurd banality at its best.
This play is about a shady thirty-year old named Stanley, staying for well over a year now in a seaside boardinghouse run by Meg and Petey, a couple in their sixties.
Stan seems concerned when Meg tells him about the new arrivals.
At least, he is hiding away from something.Later that morning, the two gentlemen, Goldberg and McCann, arrive.
Meg reveals that she is preparing a birthday party for Stan, and Goldberg loves the idea—although when she confronts Stan about it later and reminds him that it is his birthday today to cheer him up, he denies and says that it won’t be until next month.Anyway, everything culminates in absurdity until the very end.As for the style, it’s Hemingway pure and simple: the power of the unsaid, the repressed, his iceberg theory … the telegraphic telegraphic.
Why give "The Birthday Party" only four stars and "The Caretaker" five?
While the former play is certainly Pinter's most famous, and contains a good sampling of his notable techniques - disconnected language, extreme power relationships, and a persistent sense of threat and violence - it's a much messier play than "The Caretaker"; more themes are addressed, but Pinter's ambitions often get in the way of his sense of character.
In the end, preference between the two plays seems highly personal to me; "The Birthday Party" seems, to me, to be too much about ideas and too little about character, but others obviously disagree.
Definitely my favorite Pinter that I've read so far. It's so tense and violent but what makes it work so amazingly well is how implied and ambiguous all the confrontations are. I'd love to see this on stage to get the full experience of the shouting match and blackout scenes. The influence of this play seems pretty widespread but others usually fall way short of Pinter's more subtly effective approach (Michael Haneke's Funny Games being a prime example).
This is Pinter's first well-made play!! Themes of Isolation, menace, the Other, the haunting past, idenity...and relationships are ale embedded there! A Lovely Pinteresque Language entraps you as well throughout the play!The play takes place in almost one day and a night...revolving round a birthday party! It will leave you puzzled..and in terror just as anything else in life!
3.5/5As much as I hate absurdist theater, as much as I like the plays. It's a very strange dilemma.
Un completo galimatías.
Meg, the owner, calls out to her husband Petey to come get his breakfast - a bowl of cornflakes, and then asks, "are they nice?" as though she had slaved over making them all morning long.
She's annoying throughout and doesn't let the poor man enjoy his measly breakfast in peace, but I guess that's her way of making small talk in a house/marriage where nothing much goes on.
Meg and Petey have a discussion before Stanley comes down - two men are stopping by to take lodging at the boarding house.
I was hooked by this one more than I had expected to be, probably because the dialogues are amazing and fascinating and all kinds of things, but it was also unavoidably faithful to its genre: suspenseful and masterly written, however eventually empty of resolution.
It's not a rational world and therefore you cannot get answers to your questions because, you know, that would make too much sense.
I am really unsure of what I'm saying here because it feels to me that Pinter didn't intend to make us ask ourselves specific questions about his play's genre anyway.
