https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/967909.The_Devil_in_the_Flesh
Like in Joyce's A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man we are presented with a highly precocious youth who seems to know the true meaning of life and love whilst in his mid-teens.
The torrid love affair is depicted with all the difficulties and foibles that we find in many of these "forbidden love" novels that saturated 19th-century France.
This isn't some white guy in his mid-30s trying to depict teenagers having sex, this is an actual teenager writing about what he knows and through that we discover one of the most believable and relatable teenage voices in fiction.
Between her and the young boy is born a love, total on the part of Marthe, semi-cynical, semi-sincere on the part of the narrator.
Although they are rivals, the young man tries to attenuate the unconscious cruelty that Marthe proves in relation to his husband, and to soften the tone of the letters that sends him.
Fate will decide differently.Marthe announces to her young lover that she expects a child; a child of him, the adolescent of sixteen years.
To save the respectability of the family, it is allowed to believe the husband who is the father of the child to be born.
Raymond Radiguet was 16 when he started writing this novel, was 18 when he finished it, and two years later he would be dead from typhoid fever.
It's the story of a 16 year old French boy who has an affair with the 19 year old wife of a WWI soldier away from home.
It seems to have been partly autobiographical since Radiguet himself, at age 14, had an affair with a soldiers wife.
In spite of Radiguet's young age the writing is exceptional.
Many critics agree, some calling it one of the best French novels of the 20th century.
This book has been on my radar for a while now since hearing that one of my favourite authors, Yukio Mishima, counted Radiguet as one of his influences and hoped to emulate his writing style.
The couple embark on an affair, one that brings out rollercoaster emotions in the boy; one moment he is having deep philosophical thoughts about love and displaying maturity beyond his years, the next he gets angsty, selfish and manipulative.Even if we disregard the fact that Radiguet was only 17 years old when he wrote this book, it's clear that he was a gifted writer.
Introduction, by Fay Weldon--The Devil in the FleshAfterword, by Robert Baldick
Ο Ραντιγκέ, παρόλο το νεαρό της ηλικίας του (μόλις 20 χρονών) φτιάχνει ένα δυνατό λογοτεχνικό έρωτα χρησιμοποιώντας απλή γραφή και ζωηρές περιγραφές...
Το βιβλίο είχε προκαλέσει τα ήθη της εποχής μιας και η διαφορά ηλικίας των δύο εραστών αλλά κυρίως η μοιχεία της Μάρθας ήταν αρκετά για να δημιουργήσουν εχθρικό κλίμα προς τον συγγραφέα και το βιβλίο του...
Ο νεαρός συγγραφέας με μια αφέλεια αλλά και μια αξιοσημείωτη ωριμότητα μέσα από ένα μικρό διήγημα καταφέρνει να μας κάνει να αφεθούμε στα μεθυστικά αρώματα του νεανικού έρωτα αλλά και να μας θυμίσει πως η ζωή μπορεί να ακολουθήσει διάφορες κατευθύνσεις που δεν συνάδουν πάντα με τις τρελές σκέψεις των ερωτευμένων...3/5
Enter the SASSY GAY FRIEND]SGF: Marthe is about to die a horrible death because of the callous neglect of her lover, Radiguet.
Let me come in again.[The scene rewinds and he comes in again, Spanish Inquisition style]SGF: Raymond Radiguet is about to kill himself because of the dreadful guilt he feels for having caused the death of his lover, Marthe.
This fate could have been avoided if he had had a Sassy Gay-RADIGUET: I'm not going to kill myself.SGF: [taken aback] You're not?RADIGUET: And I've already got a sassy gay friend.
The SASSY GAY FRIEND is left standing next to MARTHE's corpse]SGF: Okay.
Videorecensione: https://youtu.be/Buk3nC_PCps
I think novels like this prove that one is never too young to write.
This novel tells a story about a sixteen-year-old boy (or young man) that falls in love and has an affair with a married woman (who is nineteen herself so in a way she is still a girl too).
Like in that novel, here we have a young man who by trying to prove his own courage to himself manages to charm a woman.
I really liked the love story this novel explores, even if it is not an unorthodox one- and perhaps precisely because it is so unusual.
Qualche minuto dopo, non solo ero abituato alla bocca di Marthe, ma non potevo neanche più farne a meno”Un amore immaturo che è costretto a trasformarsi e poi a concludersi per l'incombente figura del marito di lei e per la reazione della morale comune, offesa da questa relazione.Un romanzo a mio parere interessante non in assoluto (non lo ritengo un libro fondamentale), ma più che altro per il contesto in cui è stato scritto e per l'età, 20 anni, in cui Raymond Radiguet lo scrisse; non può non colpire la profondità di alcune frasi e l'analisi psicologica dei personaggi da parte di un autore così giovane.Chissà cosa avrebbe potuto scrivere se non fosse morto di lì a qualche mese.
Radiquet was the literary prodigy and l'enfant terrible of the Post-WWI Parisian literary scene, who died in Dec. 1923 at the age of 20 from typhoid fever.
Undoubtedly something of a genius, certainly a libertine, he was the object of a nearly cult-like adoration by Jean Cocteau, though he (Radiquet) seems to have had many heterosexual liaisons as well.
It is about an adultry of a 16 year-old boy with a slightly older married woman during the War. It shows a maturity that is quite astonishing.My only criticism is that the translation, from 1968, should be redone, and the book republished in a sharper idiom.Here is a portrait of Radiguet by Modigliani, made in 1915 - when Radiquet was only 12 or so
"La felicità è egoista"Non avrei certo rischiato di rimanere complessata se anche non avessi mai avuto tra le mani questo libro, ma era da almeno una decina d’anni che rincorrevo l’idea di leggerlo.
Pertanto, mi sono tolta il capriccio rendendomi conto che, tutto sommato, “Il diavolo in corpo” di Raymond Radiguet non è poi quel gran romanzo peccaminoso che m’aveva fatto intendere, a questo punto ingannandomi, qualche breve trama o recensione letta in passato non ricordo neanche più dove.
poi certo questa passione nel 1923 - anno in cui l'autore moriva e il romanzo veniva dato alle stampe - era scandalosa sotto diversi punti di vista, ma il morbo che la divora non sta fuori.
non nelle convenzioni mandate all'aria e nei rischi corsi, ma nell'unico febbricitante modo in cui ci si può rendere conto se è «vero dunque che l'amore è la forma più violenta dell'egoismo».in questo senso, il protagonista anticipa quel david axelroad che nel romanzo di scott spencer un amore senza fine si spingerà molto oltre sulla strada dell'ossessione.martha my dear / you have always been my inspirationhttps://youtu.be/xT4a5RYLBSw3 stelle e mezzo (a radiguet.
Cosa succederebbe se nella Francia della Grande Guerra, un ragazzo di sedici anni si innamorasse di una ragazza di diciannovve, sposata, il cui marito è al fronte?"Chi già mi vuol male s'immagini quel che fu la guerra per tanti ragazzini: quattro anni di vacanza".
Con un padre che acconsente in silenzio, compiaciuto di avere un figlio Don Giovanni, e un'intero paesino che ostacola, trascurando i gesti più quotidiani, la relazione dei due, non si sente forse, l'amante, spronato a proseguire nella sua follia?
Per tutto il libro, ciò che prova il protagonista è timidezza, poi vergogna.
Μία ιστορία που ο συγγραφέας μας τη μεταφέρει με κάθε λεπτομέρεια, εμβαθύνοντας στις σκέψεις και τα συναισθήματα, δείχνοντας μας όλη την ομορφιά του πρώτου έρωτα αλλά και με ειλικρίνεια όλα τα αρνητικά που μπορεί να έχει.
Με λίγα λόγια ο συγγραφέας δημιουργεί όπως είπα μία τρυφερή ιστορία αγάπης στην οποία θα βρούμε όλο το ρομαντισμό που αναζητούμε, παράλληλα, όμως, δεν μασάει τα λόγια του, δεν ωραιοποιεί καταστάσεις, καταφέρνοντας με αυτόν τον τρόπο να μας βάλει και σε σκέψεις για τη φύση του έρωτα.
Αυτή η ομορφιά με συγκίνησε και όλα τα υπόλοιπα με έκαναν να καταλάβω ότι διαβάζω κάτι σημαντικό.
Radiguet riesce a scrivere un romanzo dal contenuto più tragico di quello di Giulietta e Romeo.L'amo
Thôi đùa.Đồng dịch giả Nguyễn Nhật Duật có lời thế này trong sách: “Điều đáng nhấn mạnh ở đây là tác giả tỏ ra thật già dặn, quá dày kinh nghiệm sống, hầu như phải đã sống cả chục lần một kinh nghiệm để viết ra mỗi câu văn trong cuốn truyện.” Mình cũng không hoàn toàn nhất trí với câu này, tuy thoạt đọc thấy đúng.Với mình, Radiguet chỉ già dặn trên mặt báo chí, còn đâu trong Tình cuồng chàng thật thà và quỷ quái đúng như tình yêu tuổi đôi tám đôi chín.
Very brief novel about teenage love, The protagonists are 16 (he) and 19 (she).
Captures wonderfully the angst, passion, selfishness, obsession of teenage love.
The boy is sometimes like a toddler having a tantrum and yet the subjects are much more serious.
It is a looking back novel and he continues to wonder how selfish and stupid he has been and how little he understood.
Yet this was written by a teenage boy.
Worth tracking the book down, and for those of us of more mature years a chance to look back and ask if it was really like that!!
Напълно разбирам защо Раймон Радиге е смятан за детето-чудо на френската литература. Писал е толкова мъдро на 18-19, така като хората и на 50 не могат да го докарат. Това е истинският талант.
ผมชอบความวาวุนในสภาวะของตัวละคร "ผม" มันแสดงออกถึงความทีอยากจะกาวและโตขึนไป แตในขณะเดียวกัน มันกยังติดอยูในวัยเยาว อยางทีเขาเยาะเยยตัวเองอยูตลอดๆ ทังเรืองโดยสวนตัวคิดวาฉบับสำนวนนีแปลไดไมดี ไมรูวาฉบับทีพิมพใหมและมีการขัดเกลาสำนวน จะดีกวาฉบับแรกหรือไม
ผมชอบความว้าวุ่นในสภาวะของตัวละคร "ผม" มันแสดงออกถึงความที่อยากจะก้าวและโตขึ้นไป แต่ในขณะเดียวกัน มันก็ยังติดอยู่ในวัยเยาว์ อย่างที่เขาเยาะเย้ยตัวเองอยู่ตลอดๆ ทั้งเรื่องโดยส่วนตัวคิดว่าฉบับสำนวนนี้แปลได้ไม่ดี ไม่รู้ว่าฉบับที่พิมพ์ใหม่และมีการขัดเกลาสำนวน จะดีกว่าฉบับแรกหรือไม่
Il non sentirsi all’altezza della persona che si ama, il volerla per sé, il cercare di piegarla alla propria volontà, il desiderio di possederla e l’angoscia di non potere, la timidezza dei primi approcci, la presa di consapevolezza di un sentimento più forte di quel che si credeva, la gelosia, il desiderio che l’altro sia nostro e allo stesso tempo il terrore che esso ci tenga nella sua morsa e ci ingabbi, lo scappare e il riprendersi, il voler sentirsi amati a tutti costi, molto più che il voler amare.Il nostro narratore liceale elegge a soggetto del suo amore Marthe, diciannovenne appena sposata, il cui marito è partito per il fronte.
But both films seem to make the protagonists older than they are in this book, which are 16 for the boy and 19 for the girl.
I had to read this because the kept woman in Kawabata's novel, "The Lake" mentions this book.
This old one I'm reading is in a somewhat antiquated style and I like that, it adds to the poetic feel.
Just when you think you've heard every profound thing that could be said about love, this one offers some that I hadn't quite read stated in this way before.
I loved reading this too much.
Excellente lecture. J'ai trouvé la plume de Raymond Radiguet "savoureuse", ça nous change du style d'écriture actuel. J'ai apprécié le portrait psychologique de François, mais celui de Marthe m'a paru un peu inconsistant. J'aurais donné 5 étoiles si l'histoire n'avait pas été aussi banale et la fin aussi prévisible.
Il fuoco dentroSembra incredibile che nel cuore acerbo dell'io narrante del romanzo - "Coeur vert" f

E' molto breve, ma non è di quei libri che si leggono tutti d'un fiato.
Lo si può leggere in breve tempo, naturalmente, ma non si ha la sensazione di averlo divorato.
Diciamo che lo 'mangi' a piccole porzioni, assimilando la storia poco a poco.Narrato con una calma impressionante, parla di un amore bruciante; è scritto con il candore di un adolescente sotto al quale si nasconde qualcosa di più oscuro e immorale; inizia descrivendo un'effimera passione giovanile il cui destino sarà quello di sfociare in qualcosa che va al di là del semplice capriccio.Una storia di contraddizioni, ripensamenti, problemi ed ostacoli.Verrebbe facile definirlo un libro d'amore, ma la verità è che questa descrizione non gli si addice proprio.
Originally published in 1923, "The Devil in the Flesh" (in French, "Le Diable au Corps"), is a tender and at times, heartbreaking story told by the narrator, who at 15, entered into an affair with Mme. Marthe Lacombe, a woman several years his senior he had fancied since his father had introduced him to her family several months before her marriage to her fiance, a soldier at the Front.
But for those of us who have known how thrilling and intoxicating Love can be, making us do some rather irresponsible things, this is a story that will have special resonance.
Raymond Radiguet bu kitabı yazdığında on dokuz yaşındaymış yirmi yaşında da ölmüş, kendisi yaşadığı hayatla birlikte ölümünü hissedenlerden:"Genç öleceğini bilen ve hayatı dolu dolu yaşamaya çalışan insanlar gibi acele ediyor, yanıp tutuşuyordum."(s. 109)"Kuraldışı yaşamış bir adam farkında olmasa da ölüme yaklaşırken, hayatındaki her şeyi aniden bir düzene koymaya başlar. Hayatı değişir. Evrak işlerini tamamlar. Erken yatar, erken kalkar. Kötü huylarından vazgeçer. Çevresinin takdirini kazanır. Öyle ki, ani ölümü bu yüzden daha da haksız gibi algılanır. Mutlu bir hayat yaşayacaktı."(s. 139)
Μού το δώρισαν ως πολύ σημαντικό λογοτεχνικό έργο. Τριακοσιεσπενηνταδύο φορές το ξεκίνησα, αγκομαχώντας το έφθανα ως ένα σημείο, για να το παρατήσω, να το ξαναξεκινήσω και φτουκιαπτηναρχή. Βιβλίο που άμα με ρωτήσεις «σε άρεσε;», θα σου πω «δεν ξέρω/δεν απαντώ», κι αμα με ξαναρωτήσεις «μα γιατί;», θα αναγκαστώ να σου πω ότι, όσο το διάβαζα, μία λέξη είχα στο μυαλό μου, ψέματα δύο, να παίζουν σε λούπα: «Τι σαλιάρης!» (ο συγγραφέας). Ανευ αστερακίων, το θεωρώ πιο τίμιο εκ μέρους μου.
Lui, il personaggio maschile di cui mai si fa il nome, è così profondamente vero, nell’immaturità giovanile che tutti abbiamo conosciuto, che è come se Radiguet diciassettenne si fosse posto davanti ad uno specchio e avesse dipinto con la penna l’immagine rimandatagli, senza nascondere nulla di quello che vedeva, anche i lati oscuri e feroci della temerarietà giovanile.
