https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1043542.Secretariat
This story of 1973 triple crown winner Secretariat is packed with statistics on blood lines & racing stats; William Nack really knows his stuff.
Now I know what “going the distance” really means, and it’s got nothing to do with Field Of Dreams.
This book is worth reading just for the chapter describing his Belmont Stakes record-breaking thirty-one length win, the author puts you in the stands yelling & cheering at probably the most exciting race in track history.
William Nack’s love of this horse he spent a lifetime following comes through loud & clear.
Just a great, inspirational story.
A legend is born…A true story of a remarkable Thoroughbred racehorse that has now also been made into a film for the big screen, Secretariat has to be one of my favorite books on racing ever written.
Here is living proof that ones dream can turn into reality as long as one possesses the determination, drive and will to succeed that you can do anything.
As her world is turned upside down with the death of her father Penny has to make a decision on whether to sell or keep her father’s beloved farm Meadow Stables, and it is this crucial choice that sets in motion the course of her future.
I did, and can definitely say that the 'feel good' movie barely touched the surface of Secretariat and all that was going on before and around him....and was written by William Nack, who was a new Turf Reporter when Secretariat made his 2-year old appearance.
All are given more substance as this goes into the actual details of what was going on.
How about the $6.08 million syndication deal?Regardless, this was a very informative book on Secretariat, and an excellent look at what goes on in the racing industry.
Some names do - inheritor of the Campbells Soup dynasty, etc, but a lot don't so it was difficult keeping everyone straight especially when it came to the syndication chapter.
A full chapter on just names!
Unfortunately those don't really happen until the end of the book so you have a lot to slog through before you get there.If someone is really interested in getting into the nitty gritty of Secretariat please read this book.
If you are just interested in passing in Secretariat watch the movie!
While I can't judge who would have won in a race between the two horses, one's story is far superior, and that is Seabiscuit's.
Running from behind in a race is not the same as overcoming all odds to win, and knowing going into the story that Secretariat won the Triple Crown meant that there was very little suspense in the book.
Here's the story in a nutshell: Secretariat is born, shows promise, is syndicated (before it's known if he will be a distance runner), wins the Triple Crown, and is retired to stud.Not helping is Nack's writing style which I just didn't enjoy very much.
My husband and I read this together. We thoroughly enjoyed this inspirational book. Reading about animals that have talents above others it is another reminder of God showing us that we can have hope in excellence and perseverance.
I picked up Secretariat for different reasons than most.
Andy Ihnatko (@Ihnatko) included this book as one of his Audible.com Picks of the Week.
Secretariat begins slowly.
Why do I care about horses not named Secretariat?
I mean I didn't pick up a book called Prince Quillo did I?
I began to see that history was being woven in front of me.
I watched a breathless Diane Lane cheering a fake horse on to victory on the silver screen.
Thats about as high of praise as you can give a book like this.
Nack is a really good writer and its a pretty interesting subject.
This book is so well researched and filled with every single fact you could imagine, but could get confusing if you are not into horses and racing.
This book is a great collection of historical facts, along with a well written story of the truth behind a great race horse.
I also liked that the author made a point to not choose sides or opinions, he kept his writing even and did not make any attempt to change the story of what really happened in those great years.
Overall, I really enjoyed this book.
I've always had a love for race horses since my first horse was a OTTB turned eventing horse.
The author does an amazing job of sharing Secretariat's story, and the love he had for this horse really showed throughout the entirety of the book.
I also learned a lot about the ins and outs of racing, and how even at the speed they're going, horses can change their leads around the corners of the racetrack.
This has become one of my favorite books, and even if you're not a horse person, I feel that anyone would enjoy this book about this amazing animal.
There were times in the book when I thought I was reading Genisis when they were going through the lineage of the horses.
I should take the time to learn something new but horse racing is at the bottom of my list of sports.
Maybe I'll try watching the movie and see what I think but the book had so much background into the business and how the money flowed and even though they took wonderful care of the horses it wasn't with love, it was a business.
Do you like equine genealogy?
This book is for you!Do you love horse racing?
This book is for you!Do you like loads of minutiae detail?
This book is for you!If you don't mind a story that jumps around and shifts focus constantly than this book is for you!Everyone else I would suggest reading a summary or doing a bit of Google research and call it quits.
I was so close to putting this one down.This might be one of those times where the movie is more engaging than the book, but I haven't seen it so I'm not sure.
What a wonderful read. What a wonderful horse. What wonderful memories come flooding back of watching him run in the Triple Crown. It is so very nice to see the behind-the-scenes story.I had to laugh at the thought of the horse raking after watching one of the grooms raking. It made me laugh out loud.
This is the book that the popular Disney movie was based on. How anybody was inspired to create a movie from this particular book I have no idea. The book was very dry and boring.
Great book a little slow reading in the beginning
I don't know much about horse racing and have wanted to read a book for some time that provides insight into the practices and culture of the horse racing world while also telling a good story.
I have a much better understanding of the basics of the horse racing world now and a true appreciation for the magnificent race horse, Secretariat.
The book has made me eager to visit the Kentucky Horse Park, Churchill Downs Museum, etc.
and I will be watching the Kentucky Derby and other horse races with much more interest in the future.
Wasn’t sure if I was going to finish this book as the beginning and the genealogy was Just. So. Boring. But after I got through that part the rest of the book was good, especially the descriptions of the races. This book wasn’t as easy to read as Seabiscuit, but a very thorough description of Secretariat and his accomplishments.
I loved the book better than the movie. I though it gave more of what the horses was about and you could think about where they where in the movie if you have seen it with the book as you where reading it. Then also I think still to this day secretariat is the best race horse of all time to this day.
I have this thing about famous horse books. I’m in awe of their drive and success. This author does a very good job detailing the life of this famous thoroughbred, who is one of the greatest ever. My edition was from 2010 so you got even more interesting info to delve into. He takes you back several generations to show you how Secretariat was made into a champion. Wonderful story of Big Red.
I found this book really hard to get into it. as it talks about the family and history before him.
Winning all three of these Thoroughbred horse races is considered the greatest accomplishment of a Thoroughbred racehorse."Lists of past Triple Crown winners can be found at:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Triple_C...FACTS ABOUT SECRETARIAT:"Secretariat's genetic legacy may be linked in part to the likelihood that he carried the "x-factor", a trait linked to a large heart, carried only on the x-chromosome, and thus, a trait that Secretariat could only pass on via his daughters."[After Secretariat's death in 1989, at the age of 19] a necropsy [i.e., autopsy] revealed that his heart was significantly larger than that of an ordinary horse.
I was eight years old when Secretariat won the Triple Crown.
I don't think it would have taken anything away from Secretariat's story to mention that another Meadows owned/Lauren trained horse won two of the three triple crown races in 1972.
Well, since I haven't gone to the theater to see a movie since "Secretariat" was released I can only say that my interest in Hollywood film is ......zero......zilch......nada......ignore it and hope it goes away.........Milos Forman, where are you?This book isn't really meant for civilians, it is written for people who have lived the life.
It kind of boils down to his sire, Bold Ruler who brought the speed, and his dam, Somethingroyal who brought the stamina, but it takes 100 pages to get there.Then we go into Secretariat's 2-year-old racing season, and there is quite a bit of detail regarding his syndication (the most expensive at the time.) The info about the breeding and the syndication can be a bit dry, but it is all a very important part of the horse racing business and really gives a full picture of this amazing horse's life.
Obviously the story really picks up during Secretariat's 3-year-old season and his Triple Crown campaign.
Overall, an informative look into the life of one of the greatest racehorses in the history of the sport.It was a quick read, and Nack's descriptions of the races almost feels like he puts you at the racetrack.
And, as others have said, certain parts - particularly the chapter on bloodlines and the formation of the syndicate - were long-winded.I also felt like it was hard to truly appreciate how awesome a horse Secretariat was without some context of how an average racehorse performs.
I am not familiar with the race horse world having had little chance to be around horses in my life.At first the book was confusing with the pedigrees and which horse was bred to which filly interspersed with the birth of Secretariat, a red colt sired by Bold Ruler.
Called Big Red by his owners, the foal grows into a colt and exceeds everyone's expectations.Losing only two races, he goes on to win the triple crown trophy, the last horse having won it being Man O' War, fifty years before.
The first fifty-plus pages contain a detailed explanation of the lineage that led to Secretariat; the pedigree of the horse that in 1973 won all three races of the Triple Crown - - a feat not completed in twenty-five previous years or the thirty-eight-plus years that have followed.
Bill Nack's biography does justice to the horse's amazing accomplishments.
At this point, Secretariat is arguably the greatest racehorse of all time.
Rather it is an accurate and exciting tale of a horse whose accomplishments may never be equaled.
Bill Nack takes the reader through the lives of the horses and people that played prominent roles in the life of Secretariat.
The story of Secretariat is great but this book does not flow like a well written story.
It veers between lots of names, dates, places, races; and a novel like attempt at description that often seems overdone, incongruous and unnecessary.
I was glad that I did not have to take a test on it and was sorry it did not come with charts of bloodlines and race statistics.
The barrage of facts would be interspersed with detailed descriptions of what someone was wearing or how a room was decorated.
Still, I enjoyed reading about Secretariat very much.
This biography is written in a narrative form which is very compelling and was difficult for me to put down. The skill and knowledge of this writer is such that despite knowing the outcome of most of the races, I was so wrapped up in the story that I felt suspense and concern over how Secretariat would place. Somehow, this was especially the case for the Triple Crown series, which of course is his claim to fame!
Mostly poor writing and a lot of minutia...I realize that horse racing is a detailed, rich (RICH RICH RICH) person's game but this book could be summed up as "An amazing horse/ rich people problems." That being said, the racing scenes were exciting to read and Secretariat is incredible.
Lots of detail. Enjoyed the movie better
Horse race lovers or just horse lovers will enjoy this book immensely. The rest of us will enjoy the movie more.
