https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/296942.Moonrise
The six cats chosen from the four wild Clans of the forest--ThunderClan, ShadowClan,RiverClan and WindClan--are finally on their way back home!In the first book of the New Prophecy, Midnight, the new warrior Bramleclaw gets a disturbing dream from StarClan telling him to join up with three other cats and "listen to what midnight tells you."They travel to the Sun-Drown-Place (the sea) and find "midnight".
Will rescue Stormfur?Meanwhile, in the forest waaaaay back home, medicine cat apprentice Leafpool is seeing the destruction of all the clans around her.
I love the drama that is in this series!
Don't get me wrong there was plenty of drama with Firestars adventures....
But Squirrelflight is quickly becoming one of my favorite characters.
:-) I am rewriting this review because the old one was pathetic.
I like how the Erins are flip flopping between characters in the rest of their series.
:-) This book has been added to my favorites shelf because of the reuniting scene when Squirrelflight and her friends come back to the clans.
This scene is one of my favorites of all time.
:-)(Review revised on June 4, 2011.)
2017 rereadMe: Maybe Feathertail won't die this time.Feathertail: *dies tragically*Me: *looks into the camera*
http://yourhappinesslife.blogspot.com...Este segundo libro me ha gustado más, ya que podemos ver como la travesía de nuestros gatos no es todo camino de rosas, se van encontrando con peligros y adversidades que tendrán que aprender a superar juntos, la más curiosa es cuando aparece un nueva profecía de una tribu de las montañas, donde uno de los gatos tendrá que afrontar su destino.
Pant Pant Pant ooooooooooooooooo...
It was still fun to read though, as it was like I was reading it for the first time again.This one was certainly different - the introduction of a new group of cats The Tribe of Rushing Water.
And I could have sworn Brook or some other tribe cat went back with them because Stormfur was starting to fall in love with her.I can't help think Feathertail's death was an answer for hers and Crowpaw's love because they wouldn't be able to see each other once they went home (to their new home, not the one they are in throughout the first series).
Leafpool gets very annoying constantly wittering about whether to tell her father about where the questing cats have gone. Someone stole Greystripe, one of the best characters and it don't look like he's coming back. This volume left me proper grumpy and out of sorts - and the the Tribe of Rushing Water had their own concept of xenophobia. Tsk!
I forgot how devastating the last twenty pages are.
Had some dull moments, but the switching perspectives are still refreshing and interesting. The exciting bits were just epic!
This book was good, but sad. It almost made me cry, but MOST of it was really really good! THE other warriors books i kinda feel the same about. Anyway, this book was amazing to read. It was pretty quick too, but nice.
tho it's mean, i'm kinda glad that (view spoiler)[ feathertail kicked the bucket (hide spoiler)] cause i was getting kind of bored of those evangelist speeches and whatnot. excited to continue, this one started getting better abt halfway thru.
The book is good tho i like survivors more because they have dogs warriors is a good series and new and hunter puts more ideas for us and stories we will lovethe fandom is trash but hunter books are amazing .
It was good because when they discover Midnight is a badger and they go back to the forest and everything is demolished.
Here, in this 2nd series I have to deal with a painful collection of characters who make me want to rip my hair out & put a bullet in my head.
Plus we are shown a band new culture, a tribe of strange cats, so very different from our beloved clans.
The adventures are good, sharptooth was pretty cool.I also have great memories of these books from my childhood.
He can't keep going on like that then turn right around & tell off Feathertail!Then he meets brook.
acting like he just wants to serve riverclan & protect his beloved sister.
Madre mía, que sufrimiento hasta el último momento, ya haré reseña, estoy pendiente adoptar a Erin Hunter, tanto si me la aceptan como si no la publicaré en tener una respuesta. De momento toca escribirla o algo.
Warriors Moonrise Author: Erin Hunter Genre: Action and adventure Now that the four chosen cats Brambleclaw, Tawnypelt, Feathertail, Crowpaw along with Stormfur and Squirrelpaw have learned the prophecy of their clans they have to go back the way they came to warn them that great danger is coming.
All four clans are going to be destroyed by twolegs if they don't work together and find a new home.
Twolegs keep destroying the forest and Firestar seems to be the only clan leader willing to work together.
Will the six cats on their journey back home make it in time before their clans get destroyed?
A group of warriors wander through their forest and then through a city to find a prophet of a sort.
She tells the warriors the whole prophecy and helps them make their way back to the forest but tells them to take a short-cut through the mountains.
On the other side of the forest, Leafpaw and her companion are inside another clans territory and are being chased by some of their warriors.
Characterization: Stormfur, Brambleclaw, Feathertail, Tawnypelt, Leafpaw, Squirrelpaw, Firestar, Cinderpelt, Crowpaw.
Firestar is the clan leader of Thunderclan and is the father of Squirrelpaw and Leafpaw.
I can say that there have only been a handful of books I've ever cried on: Cages, Where the Red Fern Grows, The Last Dog on Earth, and Warriors: #3 Forest of Secrets.
It's a good read though, leaves you wanting to read the next book in the series too, though I don't relish having to read the first several chapters of book #3 because the plot moves slowly in those chapters due to the "what's gone on before" snippets thrown in.
I liked Warriors Moonrise because it has a new style of problems that arise than the older books. The traveling cats have to face a lot of obstacles that they need to solve with teamwork and cooperation rather than get physical and hurt someone. The story is well told as the cats in the forest have to deal with problems that they could not prepare for while the traveling cats strive to help them as soon as they can.
As our hero’s face new problems and new trouble arises.
One of the main characters is a cat named Squirrelflight and another main character named brambleclaw (if I listed all the minor characters it would be like the first few pages of the book where it shows all the warrior's names).
One of the characters Squirrelflight , during the book we learn more about her and her thoughts and opinions on the world around her.
Squirrelflight always wants to find the truth and have justice served and you can see that her character is very outgoing and passive for her opinions and thoughts.
Instead of going back through Twolegplace like they came, they decide to head back through the mountains, where the Tribe cats dwell.
Don't want to spoil too much there, but the Tribe cats are in terrible danger, and they have a prophecy of their own to fulfill.Meanwhile, the situation in the forest is getting worse.
Every clan except Riverclan is affected by the Twoleg monsters, and prey is getting very hard to find, except for Riverclan (the lucky ducks).
:)If you'd like to hear more of my babblings, please visit my blog, The Book Sloth.
This book was great! I loved all the action and the cliffhanger at the end! I just wish that Feathertail completed the journey home.
Ils doivent regagner leurs clans au plus vite afin de les sauver de la menace qui les entoure.
Seulement en chemin ils vont devoir faire face à de nombreux obstacles et vont rencontrer une nouvelle Tribu, faut-il les aider?
Et à quel prix?Pendant ce temps dans les différents clans la menace se fait de plus en plus grande et les temps sont durs.
Les ressources commencent à manquer.
Des chats meurent de faim, d'autres disparaissent.
Pleins d'actions, de suspens, des passages drôles, tristes, et bien évidement: 
Les "élus" arriveront-ils à sauver leurs clans?
I found I could relate to Stormfur often; he was the strong but silent type.
But I must say, I think a whole book about their journey in the mountains only to lose a cat and waste time really wasn’t necessary.
I recommend this book to fans of the Warriors series, though i wasn’t entirely impressed with it… Despite the poor plot, Hunter has still managed to turn these feral cats into easy to relate to characters, and I think the split chapters between Leafpaw and Stormfur were quite helpful and gave me a break from the mountain chapters.
(view spoiler)[Feathertail :( So brave though!
(hide spoiler)] I legit couldn't remember this book at all.
I'm so pleased to be re-reading this series!And I still find it hard to believe that (view spoiler)[Crowpaw and Feathertail became so close.
And that ending, with (view spoiler)[Leafpaw being caught by the Twolegs!
(hide spoiler)] Something else I didn't know: Sorreltail and (view spoiler)[Leafpaw were as close?
(hide spoiler)] Maybe I'm just leaving too long in between books, maybe I'm missing little details.I need to read #3 soon!
I think I remember something from when I read it years back, but nothing much.
This one introduced a new lot of cats, although they form a tribe not a clan.
Another prophecy is combating the first, and the traveling cats must decide whether or not to help or hurry back to their own clans.
The characters are really starting to come into their own, and their interactions become more fun and meaningful.I liked the alternating between the Clans and the traveling cats.
Firestar will always be the favorite, but his daughters are getting interesting too.Very much looking forward to the next book, I'll be starting it now.
I'll say it again, I love these books.
But the ending was awful--because of the sacrifice made--I was so upset because I felt like this was an unncessary death, like it was caused just so someone on the quest died to make the whole journey more "dangerous".
I know after reading many of these books that many character I like--such as Bluestar--died and I should be used to it, but this one just felt wrong to me.
I just felt it was overkill.Otherwise this was a good book, though the cliffhanger made me glad I have the next one.

This book is about six cats traveling back home after meeting Midnight, a badger. On the way, they meet the Tribe of Rushing Water. They have seemed to take a fascination to Stormfur,but he doesn't know why. In the forest, the ThunderClan camp is being torn apart, as well as the other Clans, camps. This book is amazing, and I would like to read the next book of this series. If you like cats and survival books, then this is definitely for you!
This is a story about Stormfur,who has to survive the pain of his sister Feathertail dying. To save them all from Sharptooth, a mountainlion. This book has love in it. It makes you cry to happy, to sad. I love this book. My favorite part was how they saw the Highstone. Their long journey was complete.This book will make you read it over and over!-Calahan Barker 8 years old. (Start from number one!!!!)
