https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/326882.Triumph_and_Tragedy
Way back in Volume II, Churchill made an brilliantly prescient decision: rather than going into a defensive huddle and putting everything into defending Britain from the impending German invasion, he diverted resources to hold Egypt.
He could already see that Eastern Europe was going to be carved up between Soviet and Anglo-American forces, and he wanted to get as large a slice as possible.
As Churchill bitterly complains, if only they had taken his advice then a substantial amount of Eastern Europe would have avoided becoming Soviet satellite states for the next 50 years.With hindsight, it's clear that Stalin would never stay allied to the US and Britain longer than necessary.
Prior to this the Allies needed Soviet military participation to overthrow Japan.Having now read these six volumes (over 4,000 pages) one does gain insights into this man Churchill.
Also he was not beholden to protocol; obstacles and standard procedures could and would be removed.Also in every volume Churchill writes page after page on the importance of Turkey in the war effort, and there were meetings with emissaries and government leaders – but nothing came of this.He professed friendship and admiration for Franklin Roosevelt but I didn’t buy into this.
Our strength, which had overcome so many storms, would no longer continue in the sunshine.With that sentence, Churchill neatly summed up this last volume of his massive WWII collection...the coming victory of the Allies would mean the end of office for the Great Lion, the man who stayed true from beginning to end. The theme of this book is  How The Great Democracies Triumphed, and so Were Able to Resume the Follies Which Had so Nearly Cost Them Their Life . Unlike the previous volumes, this one
Our strength, which had overcome so many storms, would no longer continue in the sunshine.With that sentence, Churchill neatly summed up this last volume of his massive WWII collection...the coming victory of the Allies would mean the end of office for the Great Lion, the man who stayed true from beginning to end.
The conniving Soviets, the bankrupt Brits, the still-don't-get-it French, and the we-pretty-much-trust-everyone Yanks all start divvying up the goods.We cannot go running round into every German slum and argue with every German that it is his duty to surrender or we will shoot him.It's been said that Churchill was the greatest civilian war leader of all time.
Great read with lots of details about the ending of WWII. I would recommend this one.
The theme of this volume is telling: How the great democracies triumphed, and so were able to resume the follies which had so nearly cost them their life.Not bitter about being kicked out of office as soon as the war was over, is he?Because this book opened with D-Day, Hitler was soon reduced to a paper villain, unimportant because his fall was inevitable.
Though it trivializes the war a bit, the image that keeps coming to mind is Hitler's Count Dooku to Stalin's Darth Sidious.The present ineffectual design of the United Nations is the result of maneuvering to get Russia to join it.
Churchill successfully recorded his perspective of the military and political struggles for future generations.The importance of this final volume for American readers is that we gain a perspective on the British activity during the war, with particular emphasis on the military campaigns in Italy and Greece; Great Britain's efforts against the Communist partisans in Greece; and, Churchill's ultimately unsuccessful efforts to create an independent, post-war Poland.
We would like to have learned more about England's post-war recovery and the fate of the German state from the British perspective.
The final of Churchill's volumes comes to an abrupt end with his surprising election loss immediately at the end of the war.
I have been several years reading through these and, as always, Winston never is at a loss for words or opinions.
Still convinced that every opinion he had was the best, we should give him credit for acceding to the demands of others as often as he did.
I believe I will return to these often when seeking the proper words to confront enemies, encourage friends or communicate hard truth--Churchill was the master of all.

The final chapter of Churchill's personal view of WWII. Almost worth just for Churchill's writing in addition to the insights he provides.
Interesting insight. Amazing how he, just like before the war started, could so well predict what was to come. How might the world have been different if he had been listened to.
Churchill's 6th and final volume of his Pulitzer prize winning insider history of the Second World War picks up from Closing the Ring (which is mainly about defeating Mussolini's Italy) and resumes with the allied D-Day operations.
This is by no means a thorough war accounting of all the remaining theaters of battle but rather a book filled with correspondences and vital meetings between "the big three" world leaders (Stalin, Roosevelt and himself, near the end after Roosevelt's death, Truman) as well as some further correspondences with generals and ambassadors, and his rising fears and alarm about postwar Europe.
Churchill was painfully aware that things must go right with Poland since it was the invasion of Poland by the Nazis that finally moved the British people and government to declare war on Hitler.
Many long and divergent negotiations between him, Stalin, FDR (and eventually Truman) had finally lead to a stalemate on just how the post war government of Poland should develop.
Let us burn the paper.' 'No, you keep it,' said Stalin." Churchill comments "we were only dealing with immediate war-time arrangements.
Time spent with such a compelling figure as Churchill is a humbling reminder of the merit of Thomas Carlyle's Great Man Theory.
Churchill's unique personal view of theses momentous years is a wonderful counterpoint to the compelling and readable WWII histories by Rick Atkinson, Anthony Beevor and others.
The telegrams, minutes and messages included add unparalleled veracity and remind us how much spirit and precision our written language has lost in the last 50 years.
It's easy to think the outcomes we know today were inevitable but Churchill reminds us that nothing is predetermined, the unexpected is to be expected and events are shaped by the character and decisions of individual men.
I just finished reading Winston Churchill's Triumph and Tragedy which is Volume 6 of Churchill's six volume masterpiece on the history of the Second World War. Suffice it to say that Churchill was ahead of his time and way ahead of the United States in seeing the danger of the Russian/Soviet menace!
FDR and then Truman were too concerned with politics that might offend UJ.
Churchill's response was we have to do something and the hell with worrying about offending Stalin.
Churchill eludes to and mentions the iron curtain well before his famous speech in Fulton, Missouri.
Churchill really describes the ins and outs of the end of the Nazi menace and the beginning of the Cold War in this volume.
Churchill spends a lot of time trying to show how he was overruled on the Polish question by a war weary U.S. In my humble opinion, the Poland question was decided the minute the USSR chased the Germans out of it.
After reading this series, I realized why Churchill won the Nobel Prize as he is an outstanding chronicler of events.
Highly recommended for those who want the inside scoop on World War II from the greatest man of the 20th century (in my opinion).
I've read all six volumes of these diaries over the past year, with many other books in between, but I feel an achievement having finished. Although familiar with much of the history & events, the inside view these diaries provide is magnificent. It's a long slog getting through, and I tended to glaze over a little with all the references to the various armies & divisions, but absolutely worth it.
I loved reading this whole series. Churchill’s point of view and narrative style are terrific an so compelling. Kind of sad the project of reading Churchill is over for this year. He wrote so much. I will hold on to the fact that if he could endure all he had to AND deal with Stalin, what is there for me to complain about?
I love Winston and he fully deserved his Noble prize for writing. However, I don't know how a person can write a 6 volume tactical account of WWII and not once mention a concentration camp or what Hitler was doing to the Jews. How's that even possible?!
Would highly recommend this series to anyone!!!!
I thoroughly enjoyed the entire six-volume series.
Read along: The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich: A History of Nazi Germany for the German perstpective and An Army at Dawn: The War in North Africa, 1942-1943 for the American perspective close to 60 years after.Side note: Churchill's history of the Second World War was originally published in six volumes:1.
Triumph and Tragedy Churchill then condensed these into four volumes, which have since been released as one, rather hefty, publication.
The audio version of the unabridged recordings of Churchill's condensed volume, divided into four parts, as follows:1.
Alone: The Second World War (Condensed) Series, Book 23.
Potsdam gave Churchill his first opportunity to size up Harry Truman and his last hand at Big Power politics during the war.I picked up some facts that I had missed previously, such as that V-2s were used against continental targets and the uproar over Eisenhower’s letter to Stalin.
For World War II reading this is the best advice I can give you is to read Churchill’s six volumes from cover to cover.
Indeed, Britain went to war because of Poland, but in the Potsdam conference it will eventually be thrown to the dogs.
Churchill tells more about this conference, and the earlier one in Yalta than about the battles themselves, and the friction between the allies become the book's main object.
The exchange of the German foe for a Soviet one is the Tragedy of the title, although Churchill also suffers a personal tragedy in the loss of his friend an ally, Franklin D.
Unfortunately, the book ends abruptly, when in the mid of the Potsdam conference, Churchill loses the home elections.
Finally, I managed to finish all 6 volumes of Churchill's account of World War III came upon this books on an Amazon sale, been for some time interested on reading them and couln't resist the urge.
Basically Churchill follows events by commenting on his conversations, and mail exchange with military and political leaders.
From a political point of view is also interesting to see the birth of the UN, from one of it's main proponents, and see how it has (or not) achieved the original goals.As for negative elements, is quite clear the position Churchill had about Communism and that paints his later conversations with Stalin.
The book is not so much about the individual battles but about the politics around and behind the battles.I have often read that Eastern Europe was given away to Stalin at the conference in Yalta.
There was really nothing that the western allies could do to keep Russia out of Eastern Europe other than attack Russian troops.It was interesting to hear Stalin's version of the situation Poland.
However in Stalin's letters to Churchill and Roosevelt he clearly explains that the Soviet union has been invaded two times in the last 50 years by Germany and that it is absolutely essential to Russian security to have a friendly government in: to protect Russia.
Eleven years after I started volume IV, I have finally finished this grand epic of Churchill and the British nation.
One is struck by the tone of this, the final book in the series.
One might expect a triumphal attitude, as Britain alone has withstood the assault of one of the most powerful despotic nations ever to exist and has emerged victorious.
But Churchill does not really stop to reflect on any glory he may have felt; far more pride exists in his account of the year 1940.
Siempre he sentido la mayor aversión por el comunismo.
A veces hay que hacer terribles y hasta humillantes concesiones por el bien general.
Ví claramente que el comunismo sería el peligro con que la civilización tendría que enfrentarse después de la derrota del nazismo y el fascismo.
No cabe duda que esta persecución de los judíos ...
es probablemente el crimen mayor y más horrible que se ha cometido en la historia del mundo.
Winston Churchill found himself with a lot of time on his hands at the end of the war.
That is how "Triumph and Tragedy" ends, with a personal note of sourness, although with little explanation as to the why and wherefore of his own political demise.
I've no doubt he felt a little twinge, as many a soldier at the front also paradoxically felt, that his war was over.Churchill was probably without equal during his own lifetime and, by the curious twists of fate which manage men, was one of the most extraordinary players on the world stage, throughout recorded history.
The Russian promises.+++ How Stalin breaks every promise, following in the footsteps of Hitler.+++ The German surrender.++/-- The A-Bomb.
On its use and what would have happened without it.
etc.--- Why did the other Allies allow Stalin to trick everybody and get away with it is not explained.-- Not much said about Spain.
+ Enough on the problem of (New) Yugoslavia, with Tito fooling all sides but in the end siding with Stalin.++ Interesting start of a debate on the difference between Communist and democratic approach.
The intervention of British troops in Greece and Yugoslavia.
Why did it happen?
While FDR was slow to admit to Stalin's ambitions in Eastern Europe, Churchill saw clearly.
FDR was fading fast and could not act; Truman did not the grasp the world problem and could not know.
The USA had no coherent design, while Britain could not act decisively alone.
The damage was done and millions of Eastern Europeans were left captive to another totalitarian oppression.
Thus, at the moment of the Grand Alliance's triumph over fascism, Churchill's work to prevent another world war ended in tragedy.
