https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/173302.The_Writer_s_Journey
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend. An approachable and informative re-imagining of The Hero With a Thousand Faces by Joseph Campbell, replete with a simplified hero's journey and examples using modern books and films.
No empathy, no sense of irony.If you've seen a lecture about story structure, you've probably been listening to someone regurgitate this same set of values.It's doubly funny because from what I can tell, Vogler essentially rewrote Joseph Campbell while dumbing it down for writers.
Vogler at least has the decency to suggest that these are merely guides, not rules.I don't think Joseph Campbell did the work he did because he wanted to create easy lesson for hacky screenwriters (for some reason all these books seemed geared towards movies).
This book is primarily based on the great work, effort, sweat, and research of these two Godfathers of mythology, and it annoys me to see the richness and depth of their work converted into a "recipe" for "ready-meal microwave writers!".I Love Mythology, I think we all crave it in a way, and it is true that all stories can be related to it, but this does not justify the fact that the author stripped this fascinating field of knowledge from its spiritual and magical dimensions.I believe writers should read about mythology!
I found this to be of invaluable help in shaping my novel and is a must for any writer's arsenal. Whilst many of the examples I had not heard of, as they are now outdated, the knowledge was imparted in such a straight forward way and with such a conversational tone as to garner no confusion. Writers, both amateur and expert, can benefit from comparing their writing to the outline suggested and I believe all can benefit from the advice given.
While I am still reading it, it has already given me insight into looking at stories and movies in a different light.
Also, it has helped me to understand that the role can also be used as a mask, where a different archetype can pick it up and wear it as need be for the story, such as Julia Roberts girlfriend-prostitute in Pretty Woman, where she isn't always a Mentor, but she can be at times when the hero (boy or girl) needs them to be.So far an incredible book and one I'm sure I will use if ever I decide to pan out the story ideas in my head.
من المذهل ان تكتشف ان كل القصص تتكون من نفس البناء والقواعد ان جردتهاكانت هذه حقيقة اكدتها تعاليم هذ
If you are, like me, more a storyteller than a scholar, you need to dive right into this one.If you are already a Jungian or a Joseph Campbell scholar, this book is not for you.
Unless you don't care about what readers feel and think and you just want to write for you.
And I did enjoy "The Wisdom of the Body"--yes, men can write about that, too!
Although this man actually writes that your story should make at least two of your readers' organs "squirt fluids." Oh yes he did.
Vogler would be the first to admit that the Hero's Journey is not a prescription for a good story, and that many films fall outside of its Archetypes and Steps, but if your story can't be described by the Hero's Journey, you probably have some work to do.Some of the example movies are a little dated in the Year of Our Lord 2013 (Romancing the Stone, what's that?), and there isn't much said about the more complex stories typical of extended trilogies or television shows, but for all that, this is a critical book for writers looking to improve the structure of their stories.
If you're a writer and you aren't using this book, you need to be using this book. We used it to study character archetypes and stages of a hero's journey in Harry Potter this semester, but the book honestly gives you so much more than that. At the end of each chapter is a series of questions for you to answer about your own WIP, making it clear where the gaps are. I loved using this for class, and I'm happy to be getting more than a semester's use out of it.
چیزی که هنگام خواندن این کتاب برایم جالب بود لذت کشف چیزهایی بود که تا آن لحظه جلوی چشمم بود ولی من به وجودشان یا دستکم به اینکه «اینطور» هستند متوجه نبودم. مثل وقتی که کسی به صفتی یا خصیصهای در شما اشاره میکند و شما در عین تصدیق به وجود آن صفت، جا میخورد که چطور تا به امروز خودم به همچنین چیزی توجه نکرده بودم.
چیزی که هنگام خواندن این کتاب برای‌م جالب بود لذت کشف چیزهایی بود که تا آن لحظه‌ جلوی چشمم بود ولی من به وجودشان یا دست‌کم به این‌که «این‌طور» هستند متوجه نبودم. مثل وقتی که کسی به صفتی یا خصیصه‌ای در شما اشاره می‌کند و شما در عین تصدیق به وجود آن صفت، جا می‌خورد که چطور تا به امروز خودم به همچنین چیزی توجه نکرده بودم.
When I first heard about this book, I resisted it as it sounded like a formula for success in Hollywood (Vogler was an advisor at Disney).
That was ten years ago, however, and lately I've become interested in mythic structure and archetype Since Vogler translates Campbell's ideas about myth and archetype for modern storytelling, it seemed like a good place to start.
As I read, I'm amazed by how much mythic structure is I've absorbed already by osmosis.
There are so many points of correspondence between Vogler's points and the structure of the book I'm writing, it's spooky.
One might best explain this book in applying one of its models - the journey stages - to a film many of us are familiar with.
I tried it with Forrest Gump:1) Ordinary World: Begins life as a cripple, with odds stacked against him 2) His quest becomes Jenny, an early friend who treats him normally and represents normal life.
8) Ordeal: Momma dies 9) Reward: Jenny comes back only to leave him the day after she has sex with him to prove she loves him.
Jenny dies, but little Forrest is an important legacy of big Forrest’s original quest.
I might retain the gist of what they preach, but I end up forgetting most of the specifics, and so it feels like a waste of time to read them from cover to cover.
I have a story that I've wanted to write for a long time, and I needed help refining the structure, filling the holes in the plot and sharpening the themes and the characters.
I didn't use the book as a recipe, but as a sounding board, a tool that allowed me to ask all the right questions before I actually sat to write my story; and it has proven extremely useful in that respect.
This book goes well with a cup of hot tea and Bill Moyer's video.The title was poorly chosen in my opinion because it limits readership to those who see themselves as writers.
How sad.
This book is for anyone--anyone who knows or doesn't know that they are the hero of their own story.
Which is pretty much everyone, since the definition of hero includes, "central character", "he who grows the most throughout the story", and so on.So aside from bringing more clarity and enjoyment to the movies you see or the books you read, this book could very well do the same for your life.
Excellent distillation of Joeseph Campbell's work. This book delivers examples and guidance about how to use the mythic archetypes described by Campbell in his works. The book is for writers of fiction who hope to capture the power of the Heroic Journey described in The Hero of a Thousand Faces. However, this book is no substitute for reading Campbell's work, which is much broader and richer, as Vogler points out.
Extremely useful for helping me get in the head of my 70-year-old redneck semi-retired hitman character. 'Cause really, what the hell do I know about THAT? Haha!!
This is a great book for anyone wanting to understand how to use Campbell's Hero's Journey in their writing, be it fiction or nonfiction--including content marketing. Vogler is a movie-script writer and he focuses on popular movies as his examples, making it easier to familiarize yourself with the example if you haven't seen it.I read this book after it was recommended in a webinar that reviewed the basic structure of the Hero's Journey for use in content marketing, and I was able to immediately put it to use. Learning and inspiration can come from anywhere!
This book is an excellent structure for both new writers looking to hone their structure and veterans who want to revisit and compare their story structure with this classic model.
Revisiting The Writer's Journey as a writer myself of about two decades and seeing how writing has changed over the course of the time puts this in a new light.
I'm glad to look back at this time as I'm currently taking a blueprint workshop which makes use of beat sheets, also used in screenwriting.
It's interesting to see how similar beat sheets are to the writer's journey.
This book rates ten stars.Christopher Vogler is a story consultant for major Hollywood filmmakers and writers.
Vogler uses heroic characters in films to illustrate components of the mythic journey: in particular, "Red River," "Star Wars," "The Wizard of Oz," and "Pulp Fiction." I've belonged to several writers groups and find it incredible that no one ever mentioned Vogler's book.
I learned of it recently when participating in a Writer's Digest webinar.
Of particular significance to writers is the "Appendices" section, broken into chapters on polarity, catharsis, and "the wisdom of the body." Vogler's writing style is fluid, conversational, and friendly, and he thoroughly demonstrates command of his subject.
This book should be a primer for writers.
I bought this book as set reading for a writing course I'm currently studying.
Having recently finished, I can say without doubt it's the most useful book on writing I've ever read - and I've read a fair few of them.The great thing about this book is its simplicity.
The main concept - that all stories and narratives follow a set path, or journey, involving archetypal characters - is a strong one that's easy to grasp.
The rest of the book then elaborates on the theme, exploring diverse avenues like polarity and the nature of supporting characters.Of course, Vogler's analysis won't apply to every book or writer, but as somebody striving to get published in genre fiction, this book was a godsend.
Great book in the beginning and middle (Mapping and Stages of the Journey) drags near the end as Vogler starts to ponitificate a bit.
I found this left me skimmmng and not reading so much near the end.I'm sure I will re-read sections of this book again in order to get more from it.
Seems to me it is that kind of book and I do believe that it is a read neccessary for all authors at all levels of their craft as the hero's journey applies to all genres.
A massive, rambling book that seriously needed editing, but it was interesting, and worth reading. At times I almost laughed out loud, because it was ridiculous. The hero is defined as 'the protagonist' and then we were told this amazing coincidence that all stories have one (male or female). Well, duh! Everything is stretched like this, to the point of the ridiculous, but there are genuine insights as well. Most useful for writers is the knowledge that Hollywood works to this model, and our work will probably be seen within this context.
Imperdibile per chi desidera fare della scrittura un mestiere. Il saggio analizza gli achetipi che si trovano in letteratura e nel cinema: la figura dell'eroe, del messaggero, del saggio (o mentore), del guardiano della soglia, dell'ombra e dell'antagonista. Certo, alcune figure potrebbero anche mancare in un romanzo e non ne risentirebbe affatto :)
If you want to truly understand the power of story this is a must read. What Vogler has done is taken A Hero of a Thousand Faces and made it simple to understand. Instead of using myths that no one knows he uses movies to show how stories are shaped by an ancient pattern. Powerful book.
This is a great book! It took me a long time to read only because it was so densely packed with ideas that I needed time to process them all. I highly recommend it, especially if you're interested in the mythological/spiritual aspects of story telling.
Every writer, read this book. The end.
Just a copy of Campbell's The Hero with a Thousand Face, but for modern readers.
Resultado de anos de estudo sobre mitos e arquétipos, somados à experiência de Vogler na indústria cinematográfica norte-americana, esta edição, revisada pelo autor, é uma obra de referência fundamental não apenas para quem deseja escrever boas histórias – bebendo da fonte dos mais belos e fascinantes mitos já criados pela mente humana –, como para quem quer entendê-las melhor, relacionando-as à própria vida.Esgotado há anos, A Jornada do Escritor é um guia fundamental para escritores, estudiosos da arte narrativa e todos aqueles que desejam entender as relações entre mito e cotidiano.
Campbell theorized that hero stories have a similar structure across all human cultures, and that there are archetypes that we always see in them: the refusal of the call, the mentor, the inmost cave, etc.
Vogler attempts to relate Campbell's character archetypes to successful movies.
Return with the ElixirWhen you try to apply this formula to some movies, it works quite well, e.g. STAR WARS.
Mostly, my impression is, he works with writers that the studio feels could use someone with a deeper understanding of story structure.
When you "spell" a word correctly, you are in effect casting a spell, charging these abstract, arbitrary symbols with meaning and power.Christopher Vogler's book is, in effect, a "Hero's Journey" for dummies, with a screenwriting angle thrown in for good measure.
At no point does Vogler ever suggest this is the only way to write something (in fact, he often goes awkwardly out of his way to insist the opposite).
He is very clear about the ideas presented here as starting points, as grand sweeping gestures which fit, someplace, into almost all stories.
