https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/264587.The_Beautyful_Ones_Are_Not_Yet_Born
This shit-encrusted tale of corruption and despair belongs to a tradition of post-colonial African literature that is unflinchingly critical of national politics.
I have no doubt that years from now, my enduring memories of this novel will be of the nauseating stench of garbage, the wet slime of fresh vomit, the numerous images of human excrement caked onto latrines and railings and faces.
Or how about this half-hearted attempt to absolve those impelled toward corruption: 
Is there any remedy for the disease that afflicts the nation, any hope for the next generation of Ghanaians?
Ask me about a writer who is unflinching in his emasculation of an African postcolonial way of life stunted by its mire in corruption and deceit, and I'll point to Ayi Armah. Why do we waste so much time with sorrow and pity for ourselves?…not so long ago we were helpless messes of soft flesh and unformed bone squeezing through bursting motherholes, trailing dung and exhausted blood. We could not ask then why it is was necessary for us also to grow. So why now should we be shaking our head and w
Ask me about a writer who is unflinching in his emasculation of an African postcolonial way of life stunted by its mire in corruption and deceit, and I'll point to Ayi Armah.
This is Armah's first novel which has been added to Heinemann's African Writers Series, and I'm so glad that I've had a chance to come across it.
It is an attempt to broadcast the voice of Ghana that was usually unheard: that of the poor--in most cases uneducated--village worker.This novel is about the dung of life and so it is not surprising that no words are minced:
If you come near people here they will ask you, what about you?
This book changed my perception of Africa as much as Things Fall Apart did. I was startled to realise, through these books, that I had never imagined every day life for people in Ghana, had only thought of Africa through negative news reports and famine relief appeals, and had never considered the possibility that Africans might live in cities, go to work in smart clothes and drive cars. Such is the power of ethnocentric socialisation.Armah's novel twisted my stomach in empathy with its protagonist. Vivid descriptions and harshly poetic reflections made it an excellent read.
What kept me reading was how well Ayi Kwei Armah manged to capture the situation in Ghana: corruption, greed, and theft among the leaders, and a sense of utter hopelessness among the struggling masses.
And when a person tries to do the right thing, people really do look at you as if you think you're better than everyone else.
A few passages stood out to me because even though this book was written in 1968, many of the same things happen 40-odd years later.
It was nice to read a book with people just like me in it; with peculiar turns of phrases I know about; with names I recognize as part of my culture: 
A masterpiece. Truly an extraordinary work full of shit and sadness and sentences of great beauty. Proper review to come soon, but y'all need to get your greedy mitts on this ere book ASAP.
So this book is by an American trained Marxist and it about the new Ghana with Nkrumah as president.
It traces the sad move from idealistic and hopeful begins of a new state, to a corrupt and selfish mess.
Yet he goes on, trying to avoid the dirt, described vividly, on every surface, the floor, the bus, the wall, the banister.
There is something wrong there, that you see at every turn, and it disgusts you, and you feel totally separate, in this ball of distance, where you look the same and people talk to you the same but you are worried about touching anything because you can see the dirt.
Very intense and intensely written.
Also beautifully written.
I could only absorb about one chapter a day, both in content and language.
Occasionally Armah gets carried away with an elaborate metaphor or description , but generally it works.
The book works to convey the profound tedium and despair of ever getting ahead in an honest manner, or getting a government that isn't just a new corrupt version of the old corrupt government.
For some this might be too blatant a way to inject the politics, but in retrospect it worked as a counterpoint to the cycle of coups that change nothing.
As it turns out, it’s quite a good literary book, although its tone is poorly represented by its cover; picture instead a dark road strewn with litter, under a cloudy sky, lined by buildings in various stages of collapse, and you’ll have a better idea of what to expect.This book is set in Ghana in the 1960s, and is about corruption.
No lectures about ideals from him.At any rate, the book mostly follows the man through his daily life, and is heavy on the description; the writing is quite visual, but often repulsive.
This is the kind of thing:But along the streets, those who can soon learn to recognize in ordinary faces beings whom the spirit has moved, but who cannot follow where it beckons, so heavy are the small ordinary days of the time.I know it’s hardly Finnegans Wake, but it’s a bit of a speed bump when you’re reading.Incidentally, the cover of the Heinemann edition really seems like a terrible choice for a novel which is dark and spiky and intricate.
But I think it’s unavoidable that it affects your expectations, and I was really startled by the mismatch between the cover and the content.The Beautyful Ones are Not Yet Born is my book from Ghana for the Read The World challenge.
All the Beautyful Ones are Not Yet Born, by Ayi Kwei Armah, is an excellent read and the second-best book I read all year, after Johnny Got His Gun by Dalton Trumbo.Armah wrote this novel in 1968, only eleven years after Ghana got its independence, and he is often considered to be from the "second generation" of African writers.
The first generation wrote around the time of independence and was filled with optimism.
It's a relentlessly pessimistic book, although the writing is beautiful and one corrupt official gets a hilarious comeuppance near the end.
It paints the picture of an educated Ghanian civil servant, only known as the man, living with the only thing he has - his values - which sees him reject the Ghanian national sport of corruption in a country where socialism has failed due to the greed of the government and those who were in positions of power.There is a lot of power in the story telling and the actions of the characters.
The snobbish wife of the government Minister who belittles the man.
I didn't read it for many years, until my second visit to Ghana in 2014.
I started reading the book on the airplane and finished it in Accra, Ghana.
The book was good in giving a greater insight into real Ghana, behind the walls and fences that is far from the tourist norms.
The people of Ghana are going places.It is also fun to talk literature with Ghanians, not something most foreigners may be able to do.
The author is one of the most famous Ghanian writers, at least as far as I know, which isn't much.
I don't think I've ever known a writer more preoccupied with human filth, and though Armah's choice is thematically on-the-nose (the story is of the lone man who resists corruption in mid-60's Ghana), the result is a unique mix of the visceral and cerebral.
I didn't know much about Nkrumah or the situation in Ghana until after I'd read the book, and it might be a good bit of advance Wikipedia reading to supplement the experience, but the work stands on its own.
there is a part that goes:"When the war was over the soldiers came back to homes broken in their abs
I picked this book up on a fluke in Jamaica after I finished reading a John Feinstein book.
I'm glad that I did because this book is incredible.
The decay of the character and the people surrounding him are similar to that of Nausea by Sartre.
But, whatever I say, it's not going to do this book justice.
Stop reading this right now.
Go get this book and read it from cover to cover in one sitting (it's short).
This book is so good, I sent it to my friend in Nevada, and I never send people books.
This book requires patience to read. The start of the book gets on quite well, very good use of description. I got hooked from the beginning wondering who the mysterious man was and where was he heading to but immediately after my questions got answered the book quickly became boring, i feel like the writer got lost in description land, like i knew where he was going but he used too many detours to get there! Overall it's an okay read although it did take me forever to finish and bare in mind that the book is very short!
This is one of those novels where the scale of love and hate is at balance. The writing style is beautifully disgusting that it will render you nauseous. Armah's vivid description of whatever comes out of human orifices is but a technique to portray the corrupted and 'shit-caked' politics of Ghana. The beauty of the book lies in the fact that one can see his country's reflection within the lines of the book: It isn't as Afrocentric as it seems. The book is raw and literally dirty, but spectacular.
This book literally changed my life! I read it when I was in Africa-- Ghana more specifically. I was really able to gain a perspective on life in West Africa, my own identity, and the political environment and fervor which creates acts of revolution. Everyone will find something amazing in this book.
Wow, that was an amazing book that I plan to read again and again! Brilliantly written and, although short, not something to be consumed too quickly. Again, I have to say it, this man can really write!!
I Was forced to read it because it was my literature copy. the first 10 pages were the boring ever. the progress was slow but at the end i liked the story.
An early "African classic" by Armah - warning against the deleterious effects of proliferating corruption, which, alas many decades later has brought much of Africa to its knees
He feels trapped.The man feels overwhelmed by so much corruption, which is embodied in Koomson, an old school friend who chose to fall into line and is now a Minister in Nkrumah’s government, a government that is purportedly socialist, but in practice it turns out to be more of the same.Koomson, just like all other corrupt officials (after all, he who does not steal in Ghana and in Africa is plain stupid), sets an example in Oyo’s mind (the man’s wife), and in the mother-in-law’s, who insist that the man should take advantage of all possible means, be they illicit or not, to get rich and become someone of importance.
In some ways, the man has indeed won by sticking to his principles: life goes on for him, while many corrupt and ambitious officials end up in a bad way.Moreover, we know that Koomson flees Ghana on a boat.
Though the man is considered by society (and by his loved ones) as a weak person and a fool, he is truely very strong for not giving in to the temptation of choosing "rotten, sweet ways".The novel deals with the historical disappointment with postcolonial regimes ("So this was the real gain.
For the children.).(view spoiler)[Just when there seems to be no light at the end of the tunnel and the man gets increasingly alienated and depressed, the regime is overthrown and the big men from yesterday are of no use anymore.
Interesting portrayal of life in a newly independent Ghana up to the coup against Nkrumah (thought by some to have been CIA inspired). Provides reflections on class, family, race, and corruption in an early phase of independence from Britain. Deeply dark. Very powerful.
Armah levererar med denna roman ett makalöst sofistikerat porträtt av den inre smutsen, dvs. den eviga förljugenheten och hänsynslösa makthungern som allmänt sett är utmärkande kännetecken för vårt mänskliga släkte över hela världen och i alla tider, genom att projicera sin politiskt färgade samtidsberättelse (det postkoloniala Ghana under Nkrumah-åren på 1960-talet) på den fysiska verkligheten, där skitiga avträden och fettkladdig gatusmuts bäddar in hela romanen i en slags kväljande stank och iscensatt aura av motbjudande vämjelse.
One of those unforgettable books I ever read. The rot that permeates the society both physical and mental, the author uses staggering imagery to bring that to light. True genius.
Ayi Kwei Armah uses shit as a metaphor cleverly and completely.I'm on an African lit binge and TBANYB is sure to be one of the most memorable I'll read.
Since I read it after Things Fall Apart, I couldn't resist but comparing the two, though about the only thing they have in common is an African setting and an omniscient narrator.
Part of this owes to the more modern setting of TBANYB, but it is mostly to Armah's decision to symbolize corruption with shit.
Corruption, like most things that happen every day, eventually becomes mundane and Armah is wise to not belabor that point.
The last honest man in Ghana?
Images of rot persist, even as the characters are forced by rebellion's upsurge into even further filth.
This novel, while certainly part manifesto, still carries a storyteller's flair, and perhaps it is totally my misread, has more than a bit of humor in it.
Or maybe that is just my inner pragmatist laughing at the shadow of my once proud inner idealist.I miss that guy...Anyways, if this is "socialist fiction", its strength is in the latter aspect triumphing.
His thoughts on Egypt and especially family are interesting, I'm curious if he retains those thoughts to this day.
i read this not long after i returned from a few months spent traveling in central america.
although, i've never been to africa, there is a resonance here for anyone who has lived in a developing nation.
it's the similarities you see in the housing structures in xian, china, and lucea, jamaica.
or the smell of coal burning.
or the exhaust from diesel-fueled buses.
this book, albeit heavy and frustrating, is beautiful and somehow hopeful.
i hope to travel to ghana one day...a friend's father passed this to me.
he also gave me the snow leopard and the poisonwood bible.
But, fortunately, I gave it one more try at a time it was picking up.It is primarily a political book and then personal (as if the two can ever be seperated).
It is set around the time of Nkrumah's Ghana and tells through the livings of one man that power brings corruption.
It tells through his observations that as great as our liberators were in freeing us, power and its first daughter wealth became to them a more attractive couple than the fighting of the powerless.Ayi Kwei Armah delivers 'an uncomfortable human fable'.
