https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/399460.The_Holy_Temple
I honestly struggle to make it cover-to-cover through church books.
I'd rather topic study and move on, but I read this in a couple of days this week as I found myself absorbed in learning all I could about the temple.
President Packer is good about citing sources and referring you on to specific scriptures and talks.
After finishing the book, I read sections in the Doctrine & Covenants and the entire Pearl of Great Price to help supplement the points he made.
The book is definitely worth your time whether you're preparing to go to the temple or been a hundred times.
I had a hard time rating this one. It's is all good information and well-written obviously. Most of the book I felt was something I've already learned in a Sunday school lesson, but it was all information worth reviewing, and I did have my mind open to some new inspiration. It was a worthy read, but it's not a book I would read over and over again. Would highly recommend to non-LDS who want to know more about our temples.
Wow. This book makes me want to be more faithful in my family-history work and temple attendance! Beautiful.
The beginning and end of the book are quite repetitive, however, and seem to say the same thing over and over again (e.g., the temple ceremony is sacred, not secret, and we should be anxious to do family history work).
If Joseph Smith taught that, why was he getting sealed to people who weren't his family members?
After all, Elder Packer devoted several paragraphs to an explanation of how Joseph's statement that temple work was the most important work we can be engaged in does not conflict with his statement that missionary work is the most important.
I would recommend this book to anyone who is planning on going through the temple in the future or anyone who wants to know why we do temple work.
The book itself is well written with plenty of anecdotes, stories, and scripture.
I did find it a bit on the dull side after about 200 pages, mostly because it became very repetitive, but it is still a very good book about why we have temples.
This book was a gift from my mission president and his wife for our wedding and I am really glad that we have finished it.
The women in my ward (congregation) are reading this book as we look forward to the dedication of a temple here in Indianapolis. It had been a long time since I read it, and I found it very much worth reading again.One thing that I noticed more this time was the illustrations for each chapter heading. They were done by President (then Elder) Packer himself.
I started reading this shortly after being called as an ordinance worker. I have read a few short pages before my shift each week which has given me time to ponder its beauty and approach the temple with greater reverence.
Really such an excellent book. I have loved taking my time reading this book so I can take a minute to slow down and feel the Spirit as I read. I would definitely recommend this book. I love what I have learned from it!
I've read it a couple of times, but reading it this time through the eyes of a temple worker has been a revelation, so to speak.
I have been meaning to read this book for quite some time. I learned some interesting things about the temple, church history, etc.
I am so grateful for the blessings of the temple! And I cannot wait to go claim those blessings :) 10 days!
My favorite part was when it talked about Elijah and Elijah appearing and committing the dispensation of the gospel.
I read this book to come to know more about the temple since I live far from a temple. Some of the book was an introduction into what to expect when going to the temple. This was good for someone just getting aquatinted with it. I loved the stories about family history work and the blessings that come when engaged in the work. I loved that even though this book was written almost 30 years ago, the principles of truth are the same today.
I learned so much from this book. I had been wanting to read it for a long time and I'm so glad I finally did. I appreciate very much Elder Packer sharing his experiences and knowledge with me. Yes, I felt that he wrote this book just for me. He explains a lot about the temple and its purpose and why family history is so important. He did this in a way that seemed deeper for me; deeper than I had felt before. I love this book and loved learning from it.
This book was so interesting. It talks about preparing to go to the temple, a basic overview of the ordinances performed there, and ends with the importance of temple and family history work. A great read for anyone, but one I will encourage my children to read before they go to the temple for the first time.
It's been nearly 8 years since I went through the temple for the first time (not including baptisms). Reading this book, I learned so much and was inspired to make changes in my own life. If read with a humble heart and a willingness to learn and change for the better, this book will help you to become more like Christ and to prepare yourself and your family for His coming.
Excellent advice and revelation for anyone that is looking to enter into the House of the Lord woven in with the history and sacrifices that were made to bring us the Temples in these the Latter Days.
Gave me a greater understanding of the temple and a greater desire to do family history work before going to the temple. Interesting and inspiring reading.
A beautiful book! It helped me to understand many things!
An overview on why we attend the temple and participate in temple work.
good stuff.
One of the most wonderful books on the Temple and Temple Worship! Loved it and would highly recommend it!
Very good, but very basic--would be especially good for new members.
This is a very well done book. I learned a lot and am left inspired to make the temple and especially genealogy a bigger part of my life.
I loved learning more about the temple. Elder Packer had such great insights.
A contemplative book that has encouraged me to continue genealogy work.
Good book. I felt it explained not just reasons behind temple work but also doctrinal background for it. Really liked the discussion around the Old Testament temple doctrine of Elijah. Straight forward writing made it easy to understand, but also kind of dull to read in some parts. Overall a good book that expanded my understanding, which I was hoping for.
Great book. Motivated me to do better at family history and to strengthen family relationships right now.
- President Packer was always the teacher, and this book shows exactly that! - I was hoping for some spiritual messages and more insight and uplifting things about temples, but this was more of a comprehensive text book of why we have temples, and why we do what we do in the temple.- The books covers a lot of history and things. It was a really slow and arduous read.- I liked all the information, but I hoping for something a little different.
For someone like myself, who has been to the temple many times, there is not a lot of new information here.
As it says on page 42, "In the temple, we face the sunlight of truth."There was also a lot of good information about the history of temple work, and the restoration of the sealing power.There was one section that had a profound effect on me.
138"While light and virtue and truth at times will not endure the presence of darkness and evil and will not, by choice stay in their presence, ultimately the power of darkness cannot endure the presence of light." p.123"A life of righteousness does not necessarily lift from any soul the trials and difficulties, suffering and concerns of life." p.
