https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16256798-the-one-thing
There's something everyone is missing...We have books, blogs, apps, pep talks and lots of personal effort.
So how does time end up managing us more than we manage it?"The One Thing" is the first resource I've come across with an answer that works.It helps you move forward with purpose instead of being reactive to stay afloat.The book teaches you to build a big vision, then zoom in to a narrow focus that kills the most birds with one stone.
This may not seem impressive, but the way it's presented helps you TRULY understand.

BY CAPTAIN OBVIOUSThe book's big secret: concentrate on ONE thing at a time.How does it take 140 pages to get ONE Firm Grasp of ONE concept?State it ONE Hundred different ways.SAVE YOUR MONEY!
I didn’t need to use my yellow highlighter on it because the authors (or some graphic artist) underlined passages throughout on the text—as though the reader did it.
The text is well-executed with summary bullet points at the end of each chapter and graphically pleasing with pull quotations.Here’s my reason for giving this book two stars.
The authors get commended for their execution but not their content.
The contents are little but worn phrases and clichés that anyone who has read a business book in the last ten years has probably already heard.
I found little new.
This review was written by James Kennedy for Dark Matter Zine.Self-help is fantasy for some people and both genres serve similar purposes for the reader.
Where the ‘good’ self-help books make ample references to ancient wisdom and modern-day science and give dozens of inspiring anecdotes and statistics, The One Thing fails to deliver on all those fronts.
(It therefore looks like the “One Thing” theory has been disproven!)In conclusion, The One Thing is an idiosyncratic, pointlessly antagonistic and self-contradictory book written for people with no time (or for search engines!).
If we lose some of that time (which is inevitable) from distractions or emergencies we must replace it.Another great insight I took from the book is the idea of aligning the “right now moment” with our long term goals and plans.
and then this week, and then right now; to help me achieve that goal?
The questions are stacked and this of course implies that we all have a lot of ONE things but at any given time or moment we really do only have one thing.I also love the chapter about will power.


All you need to do is figure out your One Big Thing and HAMMER ON IT.In a world with an ever increasing number of options and distractions, the scarcity is attention and focus and the ones that will reap the rewards are the ones that acknowledge and build their lives not around novelty and breadth, but meaning and depth.That’s the takeaway and it was well worth 130 pages of having it drilled into my head.
If you sort of believe that but would like to have Gary Keller and Jay Papasan drill it into your head, read the book.
It was a really nice book, very well-written and scientifically backedGary Keller argues that you must always focus on one and only one thing, regarding the goal you have that by accomplishing it, next steps towards the same goal becomes easier. I think this book has a tremendous potential to increase one's productivity and effectiveness if the given pieces of advice are applied. I really liked the book and would definitely recommend it to those who seek success.
In a word: Focus.That said, let me give Gary Keller some credit for taking one simple concept, and doing a consistently good job elaborating on it and keeping his book relevant and interesting all the way through.
If you'd like to find ideas and pointers for prioritizing the things in life that matter to you the most, and getting them done, this is a book from which you will certainly benefit.
The key, of course, for any of us, in reading motivational books, is to then put the ideas into action -- by actually doing the "one thing"!
Gary Keller & Jay Papasan’s ‘The One Thing’ fits in beautifully within that framework of being engaging, interesting and substantive.The Book starts off with a beautiful Russian Quote – If you chase two rabbits, you will not catch either one.
Big is BadThe Second Part of the book focuses on the Truth to Productivity:1.
The Success Habit – Start with the Big Stuff & the A Priority Tasks3.
The Path of Greatness – How to use the Priority QuadrantPart Three encapsulates how to live ones life to achieve greatness – The Sequence being Purpose, Priority, Productivity and Profits1.
کتاب نکته های خیلی خوبی برای قدم گذاشتن در مسیر موفقیت معرفی می کنه.
در جایی از کتاب نویسنده زندگی رو به دومینو تشبیه می کنه یعنی هر کاری که امروز داریم انجام میدیم باعث اتفاق افتادن کارها و اتفاقات بعدی میشه.
توصیه بعدی نویسنده این بود که باید بزرگ فکر کرد و بزرگ هدفگذاری کرد اما برای رسیدن به این هدف های بزرگ باید از کارهای ساده شروع کرد.
چند راه حل هم برای این مورد (مشکل) معرفی می کنه.اما موضوع اصلی و اساسی که در کل کتاب بهش پرداخته میشه موضوع هدف داشتنه.
I find it hard on how to rate this book. I go back and forth on if I should rate it 2 or 4 stars, so I settled in the middle with 3.It could be worth 4 stars, because it is a great anthology of what motivates us and keeps going towards our ONE thing.It could be worth 2 stars, because it is really redundant and doesn't really show any great resources or research behind each figure.
A great book on time management and productivity. The main purpose of the book is to tell that people can not effectively perform several things at the same time. By nature, people are not multitasking. They can only quickly switch from one task to another, while consuming a lot of time and effort to refocus. Although outwardly it looks like multitasking, it's just a false idea. If you want to achieve really high results, focus only on one task, in the most important case, spending 20% of your e
The main purpose of the book is to tell that people can not effectively perform several things at the same time.
Also, set yourself up really high tasks that will be complex and learn to say "NO" to tasks that do not fit your "the one thing." The book has a lot of interesting quotations, stories and examples.
This book will be a vivid example in your home library.----------------------Чудова книга по тайм менеджменту та продуктивності.
Вони можуть лише швидко перемикатись з однії задачі на іншу, при цьому витрачаючи багато часу та сил на перефокусування.
The author takes a superficial (deluded, even) take in his case studies to make his point about the "One Thing".
He uses Apple, Microsoft and Google for companies that do one thing and does it very well.
The author's "One Thing" is a simplistic exaggeration of focus but there are many good books on focus and getting organized.
There is no point in focus when you are just delivering a lot of something that is bad however defined unprofitable/unsustainable/etc.
Very powerful book on the topic of productivity and setting yourself up for big goals. My favorite part of "The One Thing" was goal setting, the way Gary Keller is breaking down big goals into small chunks is just genius. This books is a must read for anyone who feels overwhelmed by too many things to do on their daily schedule.
Quite often the writer repeats others and doesn't own up to it. His repetition of the books title quickly grows annoying and I feel a lack of 'density' throughout the book. Even though the writing is rather boring and he presents nothing new, the book inspired me think about priorities and choices in my own life. This made me award an extra star.
You know those rare and special times when you pick up a book that changes your life?This is one of those books. What a fantastic book! I wish I had this book entering University or my first job.I highly recommend it to everyone. I'd give it more stars if I could. 10/5 stars!
I am re-reading. Actually listening over Audible. For me, this feels like good advice for tackling the feeling of being overwhelmed. Let's see. <3
Quite interesting book about how we need to set aside time to focus on the one most important thing for our success: "The One Thing".
If you (like me) read a lot of non-fiction books, chances are that you've already read a lot of this stuff a hundred times elsewhere.Take home point: Identify the one thing that, if you spent a lot of your time on energy on it, has the biggest potential when it comes to having a positive impact on your work and career.
Most people don't have the discipline to spend nearly as long time as they should on the one thing that has the biggest impact.
Those who know me, know how skeptical I am.
But this book satisfied my skepticism.
He used major psychology studies and used them just right.
His conclusion of these studies has been perfectly right.
Even better than some psychology professors at major universities!He offers really great minimalistic tools and methods for practicing the lessons of the book.
My major concern was that he may fall on the extreme of over-specialization and 1 dimensional living.
But as I progressed through the book, he delicately covered other dimensions of life.
I would recommend this book strongly.
Mis-understanding his methods may cause harm.
I didn’t really find anything new or enlightening in this book.
It restates information from other books, so if you’re widely read, you’ll not likely find it very interesting either.Every time I started reading my hard copy, I’d become frustrated at the lack of new info.
At about one third through, I ended up listening to the rest on Audible, so I could listen at 1.5 or 2x speed, just to get through it quickly and move on.
It isn’t necessarily a bad book but perhaps better suited to someone young or not so widely read.
The author is energetic and successful, having started Keller Williams Realty, which I believe is now national across the US.
تأخرت في إنهاءه لأنه يتحدث عن أهمية التركيز على الشيء الوحيد وشيئي الوحيد لم يكن القراءة بأحد المواضيع تكلم عن سلوكيات الناجحين وسهولة تنفيذها لأنها أصبحت عادات ومن المجهد تركهم لها، ولإكتساب العادات نحتاج العمل عليها لمدة ٦٦ يوم تقريبًا بدلا من ٢١ كما هو مشهور، وهذا الفصل حفزني على بدء ٦٦ يوم مختلفة بحياتي اليوم اكملت ١٨ يوم (أخفقت ببعض الالتزامات وأهمها شيئي الوحيد لكني سعيدة بإنجاز القليل منها مثل استبدال تويتر بموقع رواق التعليمي، والحرص على تناول الفاكهة صباحًا،…)أتمنى أعيد قراءته مع آخرين مستعدين لتطبيق قواعده
Even though I read many iterations of this book, the final edition was a powerful read. If you are like me and lack focus in this chaotic world and long for a break from the distractions at work and home, this book is a lifesaver.
It’s recognizing that not all things matter equally and finding the things that matter most.Domino Effect:- Getting extraordinary results is all about creating a domino effect in your life.- Life doesn’t line everything up for us and say, “Here’s where you should start.” So every day line up your priorities, find the lead domino, and whack away at it until it falls.- Extraordinary success is sequential.
Success is about doing the right thing, not about doing everything right.- Harness the power of selected discipline to build the right habit, and extraordinary results will find you.- Willpower can be recharged with downtime.- You make poor choices after doing a cognitively difficult task.
It focuses on different areas of life and how you can only do one thing at a time.
Common myths are dispelled and tools given to help you choose and focus on your one thing I'm all areas of life.
Which things take a little work and which take all your focus for long periods of time.
You have to understand the big picture and the basic idea before getting into the application, where the author explains how you can make this work in your life, no matter what that may look like for you.
Their's is the number "One."While I have read many books on goal setting and picking priorities, this one some how stood out as I flipped through the chapters and saw the section "The Lies: They Mislead And Derail Us." Why that struck me I am still not sure but as I flipped through the section I was intrigued by the 'Lies' that were included.
I have also, since reading that section, quit kidding my wife about her not being able to "multitask" very well.
Well Supported Actionable Suggestions This book was short but powerful which busy people will surely appreciate. Some of the most important take aways for me were debunking the multitasking, work/life balance and will power myths. I started focusing on the ONE thing a couple of weeks ago in the office and it's already working wonders. I finally have weekends back to enjoy how I please. I recommend this book to anyone interested in increasing productivity in a more purposeful way. You can check out my video review here.
As a licensed agent with Keller Williams Realty I'm always seeking to become more savvy in business as well as life and this self-improvement book written by the company's top guru is a must. Keller's mindset transcends real estate to all business industry segments. His proven approach to success derives from an interesting perspective and to comprehend the unique strategy I encourage others to read the book.
