https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/488268.Noddy_And_His_Car
A short story that imbibes moral values of honesty in to the impressionable minds of young readers.Was fun revisiting Noddy and his excitement over the new car.Another Enid Blyton gem. :))
Gotta love this little bugger with the weird hat. Noddy taught me to read, so he has to be worth 5 stars. His car could do with a bit of updating...AND he's not wearing a seat belt.
I first started reading the Noddy books after hearing the Golliwogs play a prominent role in them, so I had to find it out for myself whether this was true, and to see what kinds of representations they did.
I do think though, that there is reason to believe there's more racism in their original appearances which some people today still get offended by, rather than feeling blessed their people are actually featured in a work, despite the unfair appearance and roles they are given to put them in their place in society.
Every year I start with Children's books, to "train myself" (having a Grand Daughter who is almost one year old).Noddy was very brave in the previous book and got a new car! But not everything is easy when it comes to pleasing his new clients! Big Ears will have to help once again.Maria Carmo,Lisbon 1 January 2017
I had a bunch of Noddy books even before I could read. My mom would read them to me and there was a phase where I wouldn’t eat until my mom read out a Noddy Book or so I am told. There were a couple of books that I knew by heart and would pretend to read out from them.Noddy is a fun pal to have as a child.
I loved reading Noddy as a child, and I've very much enjoyed introducing him to my children. The stories still hold up today, Noddy is so cute and sweet, and these are perfect stories for bedtime.
Such a wonderful and sweet little story about Noddy and his new car. There is a lovely moral in the story about honesty being the best policy.
Buku nostalgia. Noddy dkk memberi teladan untuk pembaca (anak2) bagaimana hidup dg positif thinking,damai,bersahaja dan bahagia :)Buku ini jg didukung dg ilustrasi yg menarik...
My childhood :)I love Noddy, it was my first book actually
the book noddy and his car was nice.the story was amazing i liked it so much.
Simply love this short sweet story!
I started my reading career on Noddy! I was about 6 or 7 maybe younger. My cousin taught me to read.
