https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/395960.Mouchette
Their heavy inevitability accepted by Mouchette with such forbearance — like the misery of poverty she has been subjected to every day of her condemned life.
Her barely realised feelings, not concentrated in any precise image, demonstrate themselves in gestures rather than organised thoughts.
When she gets assaulted, she feels an inexhaustible, inexplicable sense of mutuality between herself and the rapist.
But there are dark days in life when it all ends, when no luxury of a choice is given to us.
Can any life be complete enough at any point?
In the 1980's when I was an undergraduate the "Nouvelle histoire de Mouchette" was a popular choice for inclusion on first year French Lit courses.
Finally, the outstanding Robert Bresson movie version regularly appeared in the repertory cinema house which meant that the undergraduates who studied the book would soon be able to compare their interpretation with that of a a great director.This much said the sad story of the protagonist is quite painful to read.
I advise anyone curious about Bernanos to read the "Journal d'un curé de campagne" which is one of the very finest books of French literature.

I watched this film once a day, for a few days.
I don't do this with many films- La Strada.
Pierrot le Fou I watched upon waking for about a week; it was my version of a cup of coffee and the paper.
Umberto D, a nightly salve.
But Mouchette- my little savage...
this is a brutal and beautiful tale.
Raised by generational alcoholics, scorned and abused, shamed daily, Mouchette abhors and desires affection and tenderness- in love with the man who raped her, the fierce and violent world of men is more safe than the uncertainty of the world of women.
I recommend treating the introduction as an afterword. Save it till after you've read the novella. There's so little story to be told in this tiny book, and the introduction gives it all away. Shame on the publishers. This happens so often in classics that I've learned not to go near intros. Spoiler City.
Realism so destitute yet graceful as to attain a kind of shimmering deathly clarity and deep-quarries of potential resonance. Bresson made a film of it. It jumped me at the library with its nyrb cover and only took a day to bolt through.
I get no personal satisfaction from reading the "mannered strange." Two, there are the what-I-will-call books of "existential strangeness" - the articulation of life's mysteriousness, its dimensions of seeming absurdities and incomprehensibilities, the articulation of the real behind the factual.
Examples of "existential strangeness" include everything written by Flannery O'Connor, books by Clarice Lispector, NIGHTWOOD by Djuna Barnes, and (although B.R. Myers [see his A READER'S MANIFESTO: AN ATTACK ON THE GROWING PRETENTIOUSNESS IN AMERICAN LITERARY PROSE] would not agree with me on this) I'd add the works of Cormac McCarthy.Which leads me to the "existential strangeness" of Georges Bernanos.
I was once struck by the sophistication of French film making after watching Au revoir, les enfants by Louise Malle.
There are films that I hold dear, there are films I would re-watch all the time and Mouchette is one of the films that I can’t seem to let it slip into oblivion.
The story of Mouchette lacks all trace of exuberance, she’s a gloomy little creature, regarded as a savage by all her schoolmates and teacher.
I understand Mouchette’s affection for her rapist and it’s morbidly painful to even fathom that she wants no revenge or no harm to come to him.

It's a dirt-poor region of smugglers and poachers fueled by alcohol and abuse.
The deceased grandfather of Mouchette spent time in France's notorious prison in French Guyana, probably Devil's Island.
Our main character is born into this world of poverty, alcohol, abuse, disease and despair.
Even at this young age, Mouchette's role in life is so inculcated into her that she deliberately smudges her face when she goes into town because she is expected to look dirty.
Mouchette's short life exemplifies the time of human history when life was mean, brutish and short.
Some of the great 19th century French novels (Madame Bovary, the Red and the Black) are about the entanglement of their protagonists' self-understanding with the narratives they absorb from books.
In Mouchette, Bernanos gives us a protagonist without inputs, a destitute teenage girl with a drunken father who may or may not even be able to read.
So what is a person who does not read to a French author?
At the heart of the short novel is a deeply pessimistic prognosis: if the poor ever gain self-reflection, they will kill themselves.
i would venture to guess that almost every single person on gr's is of peasant stock and that not too many generations past our grandparents or great gp's or whatever, lived the dirty, diseased, brutal life of rural folks. many, most, people still do, though probably not many post to gr's. Mouchette came to a point in her young life where death was just like life. no different. This Bernanos reminds me very much of Jose Cela's "Pascual Duarte"
Mouchette or "little fly" is a story of a destitute 14-year-old girl living in rural France, searching for hope and a better way of life. Her story is very raw and real, and she is "alone, completely alone, against everyone." Having an alcoholic father, she is abused, scoffed at, shamed, humiliated, raped. Bernanos repeatedly refers to her as an 'animal', and the schoolmistress, along with other villagers, calls her a 'savage'.An intensely grim but heartfelt rendering of a young girl living in abject poverty. Lyrical and insightful, it's a very tragic and heavy read.
Poor Mouchette. Unfortunately (or not), my perception of this story is tainted by my love for the Bresson film, which in its refusal to explore psychological realism creates a sublime vision of a soul in transition. Bernanos' novel, on the other hand, at times reads like an essay on a character rather than a story.
They are like blind men who with trembling fingers count out the coins whose value they cannot calculate."The emotion of the book comes not from the brutal events that befall Mouchette but from the fact that she barely cares.
To become like the adults around her with only new and different pains to come?
In much the same way as Kate Chopin's 'Awakening', the reader accepts Mouchette's unwillingness to be bound to that sort of life and curses a world that allows such a decision to become the only appropriate one.
For some reason, it took me a long time to get through these 127 pages and I kept losing my concentration while I was trying to read.
There is also a softness in both of these novels that is muddy and filthy and makes you wonder what bad stuff is going to happen next.I read this in anticipation of watching the film, and what is strange is the film seems to tell the story better than the book.
There are liberties that Bresson took in telling this story that make the viewer understand Mouchette in a deeper way that Bernanos does.
Imagine a typical mid century European-continental novel.
It's existentialist.
It's full of angst.
There are large dollops of absurd events.
There is a political point in there somewhere, but everything is so personal and subjective that you're never sure what that political point might be.
And there's lots of reflection.
Okay.
And now, instead of the middle-class, twenty or thirty something, over-educated male protagonist, put in a completely impoverished pubescent girl who lacks the words to describe any kind of emotion, thought or abstract notion.
I don't know how accurate the translation is, but it's very readable.
I still find this book disturbing, and yet, Bernanos tilts ever so slightly toward merciful.Having read this book four years ago, I still champion Mouchette; the girl, not the novel.
The novella was inspired by the Spanish Civil War but I wish the author had used it to broaden his own ideas of how not to be "spiritually exhausted" (a term he apparently used in relation to the Vichy govt.
during WWII) and how to overcome a life of misery and squalor.It would be difficult for a 14-year-old girl in a village to do that but Mouchette is spirited, and even though the events in the story represent the straw that broke the camel's back, I still wish the ending had been different.
MOUCHETTE's the basis for Bresson's 1967 film of the same name. It's the spare, psychologically fraught story of a mistreated girl who crosses paths with a hunter who may have or may have not committed murder. Added to this mirthful atmosphere are villains of both genders and the aura of French small village life. MOUCHETTE feels very Dickensian; however, it's far more graphic AND bleak than anything in Boz's cannon.
Good book a lot of tension, her suicide seems like a wrap up. It could have been much more forthright in style. But it did paint a good picture and there was the tension of the book. One likes Mouchette despite the ending. She seems real as does the old lady at the end.
Wonderful book. Looking forward to reading more Bernanos. If you liked Bresson's film version, you must read this as well. You will get the whole picture. I almost want to read it again. 5 well deserved stars.
Well that was a downer.
Very saddening ! I don’t like tragedies.

Mouchette was almost instantly one of my all time favorites. It's a completely heartbreaking book. The opening scene drops you in the middle of a storm with almost no idea what's going on. It's confusing and beautiful, nearly impossible to get your bearings...it's a masterfully written passage that places you the fractured world of Mouchette. .....so if you want to be depressed for a day or two, read Mouchette. It's good....if you like that sort of thing. I do.
Yes, well... difficult. I think the story could have been a great one. I usually love dramatic life stories like these, but somehow it just did not get to me. I think the novel is sometimes a little too vague which does not make you able to connect to the character at all. I did not really get her way of thinking and actions which made it hard to feel some sort of compassion.
This reminded me of Zazie in the Metro another French short novel with a young boorish female protagonist. Except where with Zazie her adventures through Paris were in good nature it's the polar opposite with Mouchette. Her story was one that was very sad.
I enjoyed reading this book. The prose is vivid with detail as it tells the story of a teenaged girl living in neglect in rural France. But man, what a grim story. I had to force myself to finish, hoping in vain for some sort of magically happy ending...
