https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/548118.The_Darling_Buds_of_May
Po ovom romanu je snimljena i sjajna serija (pre nekoliko meseci prikazivao ju je HRT) sa sjajnim Dejvidom Džejsonom (Del boj) i Ketrin Zita-Džonsovom... Zdrav britanski humor... Ovo je jedna od "must" knjiga (plus "must" serija)!
This was “perfick” reading for the warm May afternoons we’ve been having. It’s the kind of novella you can polish off in a sitting or two, and  The Novel Cure  prescribes it as a tonic for cynicism. Just like tax inspector Cedric Charlton, you’ll find yourself drawn into the orbit of Pop and Ma Larkin and their six children – indomitably cheery hedonists, the lot of them. Mr. Charlton has traveled to the Larkins’ country home in Kent to press upon Pop, a junk dealer, the importance of filling in
Just like tax inspector Cedric Charlton, you’ll find yourself drawn into the orbit of Pop and Ma Larkin and their six children – indomitably cheery hedonists, the lot of them.
Mr. Charlton has traveled to the Larkins’ country home in Kent to press upon Pop, a junk dealer, the importance of filling in his tax return, but before long the financial forms are totally forgotten.
Ma and Pop are more calculating than they let on (especially considering this came out in 1958), but gosh, you can’t help but love them.
Best read in the midst of winter to remind you that golden summers and autumns will indeed come round again. A deep warning though to have your fridge and freezer fully stocked as you will get hungry and find yourself peckish for roast goose and 5 types of potatoes. Having some bottles of your favourite snifter is also advised. Heart warming without being mawkish, Bates will remind you of the simple but wonderful pleasure of walking through the English countryside.
The plot in all essence, is rather thin – it basically consists of Pop and the other Larkins distracting Charley every time he wants to talk about tax (usually with food, but often with alcohol or their attractive daughter Mariette) and the whole book reads like one 1950′s English country holiday.
Picnic baskets, strawberries, whole legs of roasted pork, huge bacon and egg breakfasts, this book is capable of setting off deep cravings you didn’t know existed!The characters (mostly Pop and Ma, the children aren’t explored much) are fun-loving but also kind-hearted and generous, sending away people that come to visit with food, such as nice cuts of pork from their pig they just slaughtered.
Frankly, it should be compulsory for every human being on the planet to read The Darling Buds of May at least once in their life time - with the good example of Ma and Pop Larkin glowing cheerfully at the back of their minds like a summer's day in Kent, no human being could possibly want to start a war, exploit others for foul gain or deliberately hurt anyone!
I don't know how to describe this book - it's a small, perfectly round pastry - a profiterole if you will - of a book.
It's delicious, it's filled with gooey laughter and it's small and sharp.
At its heart, it's a comedy featuring an eccentric family and it's round and warm and gorgeous and bathing in the sun.
I wish I knew more people like the characters depicted in the book.
The Darling Buds of May is a special book, it made me long for a hedonistic life where my only concern would be to just sit back, and enjoy.
A British sitcom - I'm glad they don't put laugh tracks in audio books. This belongs on the same shelf as P. G. Wodehouse's Bertie Wooster and Jeeves stories, but it's rustic. If the folks from Green Acres and Petticoat Junction lived in England, the Larkins would be their neighbors. The ladies are certainly more lascivious, in an upbeat way, than I usually encounter. The story is a bit risque, in an innocent sort of way. Fun and jocularity.
The perfick book to read during a lovely, summery spell in May.
A guilty, guilty pleasure.
Yes I do have two, different editons and it's because I could not resist those wonderful covers.
A light comedic tale from the 50s about a large family of good-natured coarse hedonists, led by scrap metal dealer Pop, as they encounter and win over more genteel folks around them. The plot, such as it is, involves a pregnant teenage daughter, a taxman, some strawberry picking, and a gymkhana. It was a bit of a sitcom, and a period piece, but charming and perfect (or 'perfick') for a week that needed some open-minded levity.
Not my cup of tea.
Qué libro tan más feliz. Alegre. Gozoso. Jolly. Mirthful. Merry. Perfick
The Larkins live what appears at first to be a hand-to-mouth existence on a ramshackle farm, though Pop Larkin is never seen to do any actual farmwork like feeding the animals, milking or mucking out.
The book starts with icecreams and crisps all round, then they drive home for tea, then dinner--and Pop and Ma Larkin seem to swill alcohol nonstop without ever being a whit the worse.
No wonder Ma is hugely obese--the wonder is, no one else is!Unfortunately, the metaphorical magic of the Capra film is missing from this book.
But would I read it again?
When the war broke out, he was the first writer to be commissioned by the Air Ministry solely as a writer of short stories.
He became well known for his realistic wartime epics under the pen name of 'Flying Officer X', to be followed by others - 'How Sleep the Brave', 'Fair Stood the Wind for France' and 'The Purple Plain', starring Gregory Peck.Other novels followed after the war, but perhaps his most popular creation turned out to be the Larkin family,based on a freewheeling junk trader called Sydney Larkin, whose full name was only spelt out in full when his wife was taking him severely to task.
I don't remember why I put this book on hold and was a little confused when I picked it up from the library. Sometimes I read a book description and think I will take a chance with a book outside my typical Mormon or Christian romance genre. I am always hopeful that I have found a clean, fun book but unfortunately those are hard to find. This book falls into that category. I enjoyed parts and there were some hilarious situations but overall the language and intimate descriptions left me wishing I had passed on this book.
نزهــة خلوية خفيفة الظـل!! وإن كانت النسخة المصرية التي اقتبسها عاصم توفيق عن الرواية تفوقها برائة وهدوء أعصاب..خرج ولم يعــد أفضل بكثير من "زهور الربيع" تلك* * * * *لكن يا ترى كاثرين زيتا جونز في المسلسل الإنجليزي المُقتَبَس عن الرواية أحلى، وللا "خوخة" ليلى علوي؟!لنشاهد المسلسل إذا :)
What a great book, it's feels like I have been on holiday for two weeks!Great characters, a real feel of a time gone by.Immerse yourself in the fun and have a nice holiday.PERFICK!
Apparently I was around eleven when  The Darling Buds of May  aired on ITV. I'm not sure if I should be surprised that the young Catherine Zeta Jones could have had such a powerful effect on me at that age but, regardless, my other overpowering impression of it, looking back, is one of a nostalgic yearning for an England that never was. I suspect most people saw the series in that way but it does H.E. Bates a distinct disservice.Written and published almost exactly ten years after  Nineteen Eigh
I'm not sure if I should be surprised that the young Catherine Zeta Jones could have had such a powerful effect on me at that age but, regardless, my other overpowering impression of it, looking back, is one of a nostalgic yearning for an England that never was.
In fact, life is, by and large, 'perfick'.It is not then, as my imperfect impressions and memories may have led me to believe, a poor-man's 
They are instead though seen to be overwhelmingly happy with their life and we can't help but like and admire them - it's this that creates the false nostalgia impression.
As the story unfolded I was able to picture the Actors particularly David Jason as Pop Larkin, as he gave a 'perfick' performance as a man who life to the full, and his consumption of the good things in life knew no boundaries.
Ma and Pop Larkin's eldest daughter Mariette, is a naughty temptress, who already pregnant by persons unknown is trying to lure young Charlton 'Charlie' down the path to fleshly wickedness, and he seems unable to resist.
All things considered this is a book that is a perfick experience.
Pop Larkin is the sort of character that in less talented hands would be the most annoying loafer – a shyster, a lay about and horny old salt.
He’s an opportunist, an instigator and a bit of a manipulator – but he isn’t lazy – he may be constantly working some angle, but he’s constantly working.
The Larkin’s live off the land – they do odd jobs, salvage work, pick fruit, – they work hard and play hard (lots of drinking – which I’m not fond of) – and yet they love each other, and they love the land (nature and animals), and love food (lots of food scenes here that’ll have your mouth watering), and love ribald lovemaking in bucolic settings.
Stopped reading three chapters in, because the characters were so unappealing that I was getting terribly depressed.
The book was written in the 50s and centers upon a family that is poor and rural, and enjoys one another's company, good food, flashy possessions, and the beauty of nature.
The main question of the book is whether the pregnant 17 year old daughter can fool a random tax collector into thinking that he is the father of her baby.
But while it is well written I don't find characters this selfish to be entertaining.
Seen the TV adaptation loads of times and reading this book is gorgeously escapist, just like the programme. Makes you realise what a good adaptation it was, perfectly cast. There's so much here I'm definitely going to visit this book regularly.The observations about civilization, British culture and government are so well drawn. The feeling that the reader and the author are more like Charley than Pop is so powerful. This book is like a warm bath. Why wouldn't you want to get in? Why would you want to get out?
This was great fun! A truly delicious little novel filled with strawberry plucking, ice creams, picnics and absurd love affairs. It felt like the perfect summery read.(However, I do think I've had enough of the Larkins for now. Even absurdities have their limit.)
What an utter delight this books was. Pop is a genius at finding ways to avoid paying tax, completely ignoring the fact that there is such a thing as income is working brilliantly for him so far. All the while lavishing his family in all that money and bartering can buy.
A very odd book, full of 1950s english countryside charm, and some pretty radical class-warfare stuff. Lovely but better to not think too much about it or it would spoil the charm.
Read it now in the summer, or keep it for the winter to remind you of a summer full of sun and strawberries.
Here in the twenty first century, I am inclined to think there is a whole group of society who would look down on the Larkins and the way they lived their life......
but d'you know, he wasn't making it up, and there are still folk now who live in a similar way (although perhaps they don't eat quite so much, nor drink triple strength cocktails!).
I found it a light and appealing read over a couple of days.
This book was very funny and very silly. Thoroughly enjoyed it. Absolutely crazy, who knew what was going on.
This book put me in a great mood. It's just fun. It's without drama, without being boring. It'd be perfect to read after a more serious, depressing book - it lifts the mood really quickly!
Each time I saw the film over the years—probably ten or more times—I told myself, “You really should read that book.” And so it goes.
Bates’s main characters are the same four from the movie, almost identical in personalities, and thus, as I read, I pictured Debbie Reynolds, Tony Randall, Melvyn Douglas, and Una Merkel.
The book’s characters, too, are British, while their film counterparts are American.
The British thing, however, may have been what got in the way of my fully enjoying the book’s plot.
Still, I enjoyed The Darling Buds of May and recommend it.
