https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6917952-burned
Quite literally, the first 250 pages of this book is every single character expressing their love for Zoey and how they must save her before the earth falls into some dark oblivion.
To say the least, it was painfully boring.For the last two books, the Casts, for some reason, have thrown in these God-awful point-of-view changes.
I mean, seriously, if Stevie Rae and Rephaim are in the same room, there's no need to change the POV mid-conversation.
She probably had ten pages of narration in the book, besides the end.
(Speculation is now at fifteen books).Loving the U.K. cover by the way, disappointed its not Stevie Rae like the U.S. but it will look good on my shelf anyway.Finally, time for me to actually review it.
I still hate Zoey, and speaking of hate, I despise Damien, Jack, and the Twins too.But now for things I like, Stark for one, and pretty much anything to do with Stevie Rae and Rephaim, I hope that ends well.
Lets just hope Rephaim, Stevie Rae and Stark get their happy endings now.Oh, I must also compliment the authors for the research they did, although I obviously don't speak Scottish Gaelic, I definitely recognised the words that are identical to Irish.
Heath, Zoey, Aphrodite, Darius, Stevie-Rae, Rephaim, Stark and the big baddies (Neferet and Kalona) are the main focus and while fans of the Twins and Damien and Jack might be disappointed, the focus on the characters listed is key to this book.
What's marvelous about that, though is not all characters are developed in the present, not all are even truly in the book, but each and every character mentioned takes on more meaning and becomes so much more clear than in previous books.Now I'm a huge Stark fan and by the end of this book I don't see how anyone couldn't be, but that's not where I think this review should focus.
I absolutly loved the book before this book. The only problems I had with it were that.................. 1.) Zoey and Stark didn't seem like they got enough time together which made it seem like they were growing apart. 2.) Stark and Zoey need to be together. Period. 3.) I am zo glad Heath died. He was a totally unimportant character. he just got in the way. 4.) How in the fricken world could Zoey DIE????????????? I really hope that in Burned Zoey lives and she ends up with the right person (Stark.)
When Burned came out, I figure "what the hell, it looks relatively Zoey relationship free" Well, yes it was relatively that, but I guess BFF Stevie Rae just had to step up and fill Zoey's vacant shoes and have the boyfriend issue, but not with boys, but with a boy and a bird.
But of course there's some hot indian boy hiding in him that I'm sure Nix will turn him into in the next book or 2 so Stevie Rae can also have a hot boy.
Can't be a part of House of Night without a hot boy.
Just want to see how the story end.
I love this series.
I have never felt so connected to a set of characters.
Whenever I'm reading one of these books I always feel like I'm right there and that zoey and her gang are my friends.
These books bring me happiness, sadness, anger, serenity, & laughter.
I always regret finishing one and always enjoy picking up another.
I am ecstatic to hear that there are more books to come and even more ecstatic to hear that they are working on making them into films.
I say keep up the good work P.C. Cast.
Keepthe books coming and bring on the movies!!
***SPOILER ALERT!!!***Zoey's soul is shattered and it will only take two people in her life to save her soul; Heath and of course Stark.
I love you!' I was jumping up and down on my bed when Stark finally was part of her life.Aprodite of course was hilarious!
We got to know her better and loved her even more.Stevie Ray has a couple of parts (most of the book) that shows her point of view and lets us know a little bit about her life.
I sort of gotten annoyed with Stevie Ray and her rambling.Erik Night.
Loved them.The Twins?
i cant wait till this comes out!! the end was way too suspencefull! ahhhhhhhh! i cant wait till may!
And in this case, we know that there are going to be twenty more of these things coming out so Zoey is going to live much to my displeasure.So the whole plot of this book.Pointless and stupid.And if you were a die hard fan of this shit (and there are some people out there who enjoy these books believe it or not) then you're going to be even more confused with what's going on with the eighth installment because you had to wait twice as long to get your cliffhangers resolved.Oh, well, Zoey will probably be obsessing about another boy.
ha.Zoey is trapped in the Otherworld due to her soul shattering when Heath is killed by Kalona.
In the meantime, Neferet has put Kalona in a trance like state to make sure Zoey dies.
Then we have Stevie Ray dealing with her feelings for Rephaim in Tulsa & the other red fledglings who are causing all sorts of trouble.I have to tell you all the honest truth, I did not enjoy this book at all.
There’s Zoey, but she’s off as her souls shattered, Stark, Stevie Ray, Kalona & sometimes we hear from Heath & Aphrodite.
I usually enjoy multiple POV’s & I like the House of Night Series, but this was just too much IMO.
Nothing ever happens in them anyway, though, so I guess it's okay.Alrighty so, the plot of this one: Stupid Zoey is temporarily dead and hanging out in the Otherworld with stupid Heath.
Meanwhile, Zoey's somewhat less-stupid friends are trying to figure out a way to get her back out of her vegetable-like state.
(Although why they don't want to keep her that way … beats me.) Stevie Rae has, like Zoey––her BFF (as the Casts insist on calling her … *gag*)––become a total slut.
(I don't really get it, either.)Stark … Eh. I don't have much against him, besides the fact that he actually likes Zoey.
And as the series continue I feel that each books gets darker and each of the characters get more entangled in conflicts but they mature.
In the beginning I found Stevie Rae an annoying character but after tempted I started falling for her and I absolutely loved her in Burned.Burned is by far the best book in the series so far.
(SPOILER ALERT) I found Rephaim and Stevie Rae's story to be far more interesting than Zoey's.
Don't get me wrong I still love Zoey and Stark but Stevie Rae/ Rephaim go through something so beautiful gradually.
The first few books in this series were good.
They were fun, easy reads and guilty-pleasure material.
The last few books have been a chore to read, though.
While the characters were not as annoying in this book (due to Zoey not really being present) the writing was irritating.
I have never been a fan of the Kalona plot which was particularly boring in this book.
I keep reading these books in hopes that they'll return to what they were at the start but I'm not sure how likely that is.
i know its going to be good!but does anybody think that p.c cast should release the first chapter? pleeeaaasse?
Now while Zoey was by no means a ground-breaking character, I have to admit she kept things interesting and having one main focus provided the earlier books with a smooth chapter-by-chapter flow.
He hypes about feeling something like guilt and regret while in the Otherworld chasing after Zoey, yet the next thing we know, he's beating Stark to a pulp.
The Romance--or Lack ThereofYes, we had Stevie Rae and Rephaim as our main couple focus this time around and, yes, I thought their story was the best thing about this book, but, in the end, nothing really changed between them.
I've read seven of these books in the series so far, and really enjoyed them. There aren't many books I read, that I wish would be turned into a film or TV series, but I think these would be great on TV.
the title.......
This book is gonna test Zoey, Stevie Rae, and Aphrodite.
See if Zoey can overcome the terrible events that took a deadly toll on her.
If Stevie Rae can find the strenght and courge to put those red Flegding in line, and find a way to save Zoey From the Otherworld?
If Aphrodite can manage the sudden pressure of Nyx is putting on her.
By talking to her, Whether Aphrodite want it or not?
Three girls… playing with fire… if they don’t watch out, everyone will get Burned..........the HOUSE OF NIGHT booke series!!!Books (Everything after Burned Im not 100% those are the right titles.
I was eagerly anticipating this book, but it is clear after reading it that the authors are merely dragging this story out for profit instead of the work itself.
While the other six previous novels were paced well, this book drags.
The idiotic and sterotypical language in this book is extremely annoying.
I can see introducing a couple of new povs, but everyone almost has a pov in this story and it leapfrogs between them.
I like the scenes between Rephaim and Stevie Rae, but overall just found the book lacking.
Hopefully the next book will be better.

Let me save you some time.Page 181. That's where the actual plot starts rolling.Pages 297-298. That's how long it took Zoey to actually put her soul back together.Throw in some forbidden love for Stevie-Rae, Aphrodite getting treated like an idiot when she's trying to help, and 3 heartbroken men who have no business being as devoted and madly in love with Zoey as they claim to be, and you've got this book.
As had been the norm during the centuries since he’d fallen, Kalona felt very little.Craaaaaaaaaaaawling in my skiiiiiiiiiiiiiiin.Christ, Kalona, get a LiveJournal.I’m also side-eying that “didn’t particularly want to kill the boy” line – I feel like it’s meant to soften the blow of what he’s doing, as though a supposed lack of active malice on Kalona’s part somehow makes killing the target of your sexual aggression’s boyfriend less terrible.Anyway, he means to murder Heath on the dl, but as we already know, Zoey shows up.
I had hoped that it was going to be him in is human body that would move on but it turned out to be his soul that moved on.
Stevie Rae had become the first Red Vampyre High Priestess and became imprinted with a raven mocker who may or may not take a human form in the next book- ending was left open to this.
Nxy told Zoey that her return was only just the beginning for something even bigger.
I still remain to keep an open mind and hope that the series gets better after this book.
Like TEMPTED, Zoey's perspective is written in first-person, while everyone else is in third-person.
Given the limited focus on Zoey, the book could have easily and more smoothly been written in all third-person and without the need for chapter headings with each character's name; the authors should know that readers are smart enough to figure out the scene changes without names, just like in other books.
Though some may miss the focus on Zoey, I liked the shift because it gave new life to the other characters.
Even with these problems, I know that I'll likely pick up the eighth book when it comes out.
It took abit of time from reading Tempted to Burned.
I would say one of the best books in this gener.Zoey has a hard time right now.
So they search through old books about a warrior bringing back his High Priestess.
But all they find out is that all warriors succeded to come to the 'otherland' but the mission to come there was to hard so they died.
So it all ended up with both of them died.But Stark, a young hot warrior, find a way to not die but still get there.This book was beautiful written.
If I weren't embarrassed to admit publicly that I'm addicted to this series, I'd have a t-shirt made that said, "Slay Stevie Rae." She is the epitome of annoyance, along with Rephaim, Kalona, the stupid non-twins, and Jack, the squeaking boyfriend (Damien deserves better, I think).
The first 100 pages are a waste...meaningless dialogue that I doubt the authors even understand themselves.
But, for those of us who can't seem to tear ourselves away from the series and are looking for a happy ending (well, for now, since we're apparently a long way from the end...I'm actually kicking myself for beginning), you won't be disappointed at the end of this one.
3.5 Sterne
More like 3 and a half.
I did enjoy this one but it felt a little disjointed than the other books in the series.
Aphrodite as always remains my favorite.
Yet it was only in the last ten chapters that we finally made the journey to the Otherworld so it felt just a tad rushed.
I will miss Heath....sort of.
But it was truly nice to revisit this book.
My memory of Burned and the books following them is a little hazy (I stopped for some reason at Hidden).
Yet I'm going to enjoy finishing this series....and revisiting it.
3,5 Sterne
Those bothersome elements are what earned this book such a low rating.One of the first things I didn't like about this novel was the way it started out.
I was glad that someone finally found out that she'd been lying the whole time, even if I didn't really appreciate Dallas' freak-out.As much as I hate to say it, I am actually starting to like Rephaim.
If I had to read "bullpoopie" or "bullcrap" one more time, I was really going to throw the book at the wall.There were two things, though, that I did like: Stark and Aphrodite.
