https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/174362.Over_the_Edge
I found this book to be somewhat boring at times with too much talking and not enough action.
And we barely got any breaking and entering, which is one of my most favorite things about the first two books (and Alex in general).
This is how I summed up the final third of the book for my husband..."Alex went somewhere and they talked, and then he went somewhere else and they talked some more, and then at the end when he and Milo were recapping the crime they talked even more.
The End."And I need more Milo.
Just give me more Milo!
I have read all of Jonathan Kellerman's novels, starting with WHEN THE BOUGH BREAKS back in 1986, two years before I began writing a novel of my own.I had to wait a while for BLOOD TEST, SURVIVAL OF THE FITTEST, and THE BUTCHER'S THEATER to come to a bookstore near me because I was in Europe at the time.Then OVER THE EDGE hit the bookshelves.
I have always been fascinated by genius, and what I loved most about this book is seeing into the mind of a child-genius from the perspective of a psychologist.Even if you've never heard of Jonathan Kellerman, even if you don't usually read psychological thrillers, I'm confident you'll love this book.
Dr. Delaware receives a surprise middle of the night call from a patient he treated years ago. This young man is incoherent and Alex feels he must follow up and find out what is going on. What follows is a confusing, talk-heavy novel, that required a bigger suspension of disbelief than I was willing to give it.
I have yet to read an Alex Delaware novel that I didn't like, but some stand out more than others. This was particularly unique and intriguing as it related to use of "natural" hallucinogens, among other drugs, to alter and control a person that had a very loose grip on reality to begin with. Amazingly well-written, the story pulled me in immediately and held my interest to the very end. Excellent and unique mystery.
(Book 3 of author's Alex Delaware/Milo Sturgis series.) When child-psychologist Alex Delaware gets an incoherent, late-night call from a former patient, he is pulled into an investigation of the brutal murders of male prostitutes, among others.
This rather salacious story has a lot of twists and turns which end when all is fully revealed during the final Sturgis/Delaware confrontation with the masterminds (i.e. guilty parties in the 'drawing room').
But Kellerman decides to grant Delaware a chance to be a psychologist - a session that should have stayed confidential and not brought the book to a dull ending.
The 3rd of the Alex Delaware-Milo Sturgis series...I've read the later books in the series & loved them, so like many other series I'm trying to get thru the earlier ones...Alex receives a late night distressing call from one of his earlier patients in a study of young geniuses...perturbed by the deranged rantings Alex follows up & becomes entangled in a serial murder case with Milo on opposite sides...neat twists, but not as fast moving as his later work...still a very good read!
Later Delaware comes to know that Jamie, the rich heir is accused of serial murder of homosexual men, including his lover.
Jamie, the child protegee comes from a psychotically disturbed lineage and they want him incarcerated in a mental home rather than be arrested and tried as a sane person.
Delaware delves deeper into Jamie's background and unearths many seemingly unrelated facts which later culminate into shocking revelations.This is a story of unmasking of politely veiled greed and betrayal, which leads to multiple murders and ripples of devastation.I enjoyed this tautly placed psychological thriller, which delves into many psychological and psychiatric abnormalities, schizophrenia being one of them.
Given that I love psychology and mystery novels this was a nearly perfect fit for me.I loved the psychological background on schizophrenia and the "dim cap" (diminished capacity defense) that the author provides as part of the story.I found it an interesting exploration of how police & prosecutor's viewed gay victims/gay suspects in the 80's.
Nipples like pearl onions?
Pearl onions are pretty big, I don't think nipples get that big.I'd still recommend it though, and I plan to go back & read the first two novels in this series.
This book was long.
And it FELT long.
Because OMG so many talks and not enough action.
In the beginning, Alex also talked to his friend Lou about bonds and financial stuffs.
Because when Milo and Alex zooming in on the murderers, that scene was awesome.
I also mildly appreciated that even if the crime started with murders against male prostitutes and there was some bigotry attitude, it didn't come down to simply crimes against gays (or deviants).I still liked Alex and I still want to read all of these books (up to the current one).
Tedious. Found myself skipping great chunks of nothing but description. Kellerman is notorious for detailed descriptions of the scenery, but this was ridiculous. Also found myself skipping chunks of dialogue of main character with other secondary characters who I knew had little to do with the outcome of this story. I don't need detailed life histories of story people who ultimately don't matter. Having said that, the last chapter was quite touching and demonstrated how well Kellerman does write when he's focused on story. I don't recommend this book. He has written better ones.
Back in 2008 i read through this book at a slower than normal pace.
In the case of Timebomb, book 5 in this series which i had previously disliked and mentioned such in an earlier draft of this review.
Rereading the book faster caused me to upgrade it 2 whole stars in the review meter.
I hearby declare, do not pick up any Kellerman mystery unless you suspect you have adequate free time available to read at least one chapter per day, everyday, and in result will finish a story in 45days or less.
This book felt like a bit of a departure from the style of the first two Alex Delaware books.
It read less like a "whodunnit" and more like a "whydunnit." It was also very cerebral in nature-- very, very little action, and lots (and lots) of discussion/conversation that really felt like it was going nowhere.
Alex Delaware continues to be an interesting character, and I am enjoying following his journey, but I was definitely disappointed that the supporting crew (Milo, Robin) were not as present in this book.
If it weren't for the fact that I am reading these for my book group, I would probably stop here and feel fine about it.
Great book!
I think I have found another favorite author!
Very interesting, fast paced and full of suspense.
If you haven't read Jonathan Kellerman, now's the time to start!
Alex Delaware is a great character.
He's been added to my favorites too.
I can't wait to read more of Kellerman's books and find out what other adventures Alex has!
Every time I read one of these books, it gets me more and more interest in psychology.
I found myself looking things up that I read about in this book because I found them so interesting.
Can't wait to read the next Alex Delaware book!
I found this to be a terrific read. The plot was more than a little bizarre, but the story-telling was excellent. Lots of psychologist talk.
Dialog jest dość krótki, nie wnosi dla czytelnika niczego istotnego, a co zabawniejsze, nie przypominam sobie, żeby przez resztę historii Ned pojawił się chociaż raz.
Każda jego rozmowa z kimś nie wydaje się rozmową, tylko przesłuchaniem i wyuczonymi regułkami z pracy psychologa.
Gdy jego najlepszy przyjaciel, Milo, pije i opowiada mu o swoich problemach w pracy przez swoją orientację, to Alex niby go jakoś pociesza (chociaż jak na psychologa naprawdę mógł się bardziej postarać), a tak to siedzi właściwie niewzruszony.
Going back and hitting a few of this series I missed, and enjoying it.Kellerman writes well, and I like his characters.This book was especially relevant this week, being Pride week, and Milo's conflicts with his new boss, whose attitude towards gay cops is filtering down into the ranks of the people he used to work well with under his former boss.
Third in the Alex Delaware psychological thriller series set in the early 1980s and revolving around a child psychologist who helps fight crime in L.A. It's been three years since  When the Bough Breaks , 1.My TakeIt's so weird to read about an answering service, so ya know this is in the days before answering machines.That Mainwaring is such a jerk, all holier than thou. He's a useful conduit for Kellerman to take a whack at psychiatrists and insurance companies. Yep, those insurance companies…
Well, the things parents don't do, like tell their kids what's what.It is a pip of a story that I simply had to put down every once in awhile just to catch my breath!The StoryAn incoherent call in the wee hours of the morning, sends child psychologist Alex Delaware rushing through the night to Jamey Cadmus, the patient he had failed five years before.But by the time Alex reaches Canyon Oaks Psychiatric Hospital, Jamey is gone, surfacing a day later in the hands of the police, who believe Jamey is the infamous Lavender Slasher, a psychotic serial killer.Wooed by a high-powered attorney to build a defense, Alex will get a chance to do what he couldn’t five years ago.
Child psychologist Alex Delaware gets a 3am phone call from a former patient he hasn't heard from in 5 years.
The incoherence of the phone call was enough to get Alex to go and find Jamey to see what help he needed.
It turns out that Jamey has been arrested for murder - and not just one, but several.
Alex is hired by Jamey's lawyer as a consultant but when he isn't working fast enough for the lawyer, he gets let go.
Alex doesn't believe the Jamey could have possibly committed the crimes and sets out to do some detective work on his own.
Lo mejor del libro:"Looking for simple answers is just one way we try to make sense out of a complicated world.""It's people who don't think who sink into bigotry.""If someone's determined, he'll eventually succeed.""The symptoms of madness can often be altered with medication, but there's no therapy for evil.""We all want to feel in control of our destinies, and when events occur that rub us of that feeling of control, we seek answers, search for meaning, punishing ourselves with I-should-have and I-could-haves."
Another page turning all night read! Alex receives a call in the middle of the night from a former patient that sets him off on a road of grisley discovery. Alex is like a bulldog --- once his mind catches something he can't let it go until all the pieces are revealed. All the great secondary characters are back, Milo, Del, and Robin. Great read!
Oldie but goodie!These are the kind of mysteries I love. Lots of character development, some information, this time on psychotic drugs. This is longer than a lot of books you can get these days, but so worth it!
The best Alex D. yet.
Audio with ebookA good solid 3 stars because the author educates the reader using interesting fiction as opposed to reading a text book. Without telling the reader he draws on actual events that took place in California.What kept it from a higher rating: his character descriptions are stereotypical. his banter with his girlfriend is silly I'm not sure if I buy his nerd/tough guy personaThe series is several decades on going so I am guessing that his writing improves
longer than it could have been, it needed tightening up - but still enjoyable.
I didn't think there would ever be an Alex Delaware book that I couldn't bother to finish. A few chapters in, I started wondering if anything worthwhile was ever going to happen, so I decided to check out what other people had written here about it and that's when I decided it wasn't worth persisting.
Continuing with the need to re-read one of my favorites, Jonathan Kellerman, Over The Edge is an earlier novel that reminds me again why I'm so hooked on Dr. Delaware and his sarcastic friend Milo.
The two best friends didn't pair up as an official team on the case till toward the end, and even then the communications would kept relatively brief compared to later works, but it was still good times to be had.As for the 'villain' of this story, as is typical Kellerman many are involved.
Compared to other Kellermans, this doesn't blow me away as some of them did.
He's being cared for by his uncle and guardian, Dwight Cadmus.The evidence against Jamey looks strong and Delaware is hired by the attorney defending Jamey in hope that Jamey could be found guilty by diminished capacity and sent to a treatment center for the criminally insane.Digging deeper, everything seems a little too convenient and it makes Delaware want to know more.
They look into Jamey's past and the drug scene in Los Angeles and San Francisco in the Height Ashbury section.
Evidence shows possible use of hallucinogens and mind altering drugs.This is a well done, psychological novel with many secrets hidden by Jamey's family and uncovered by Delaware.
In my family, we have had quite a few geniuses who ended up insane in their 30s, so this intrigued me.Jamey calls Alex after 5 years ranting about plumes, glass canyons and white zombies.
Alex can't understand him and when he tries to find Jamey, he finds that he has escaped from his mental facility and is accused of being a serial killer.Alex can't reconcile this with the Jamey he knew, so when the family lawyer asks him to take part in the defense, he starts investigating.This book dragged on at a few points.
A very intelligent boy who calls Alex in the middle of the night and is not making sense, sounding psychotic and talking in unrelated words.
Alex knew Jamey from several years back.
Alex participated in a program for highly intelligent teens and befriended Jamey.
He was far from the Jamey he knew.
As Alex digs deeper he hits one brick wall after another until finally he starts to see the real story behind Jamey, his family history and what really happened to him.
The suspense in this book is awesome.
Maybe this is the book that turned the corner for Kellerman.
The complex plot builds from a frantic phone call at the beginning to a tangled web of interrelated victims and villains that nicely segues into a tight, highly satisfying conclusion.
The characters are all believable, be they desperate, cunning, cold, evil, or ineffectual.The protagonist is at his best, not as smug as he comes off in some of the other books and definitely a better friend to the troubled Detective Sturgis.
There are few troubling coincidences and only a little gratuitous sex and violence.The plot is superb.
That is Kellerman at his best.None of this book is filler.
