https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/866160.Mayday
All about a Tokyo-bound supersonic jet flying at 62000 feet hit by a naval missile inadvertently over the Pacific Ocean and how an amateur pilot and a flight steward try to bring the aircraft to safer grounds.
The flight crew are all dead.
The US naval officers in charge, the airline officials and the insurance agency try to cover it up for their own interests.
The survivors are now fighting for survival against the turbulent weather, low fuel, malfunctioning controls and people who do not want the airline to land safely.Fasten your seat belts and enjoy this turbulent ride !
I don't give out a lot of 5's, so I really need to explain this one for this very reason in addition to this book is way outside of my usual reading genres.
I've always felt that if the author can properly evoke an intended emotional response in a reader, then the book is fairly well written.
And while this book does stray outside of the realm of possibility on a number of occasions, I don't necessarily discount stories that take creative liberties.
Isn't that why they are called stories?
This isn't the most intellectually challenging of reads, but the story is more than solid.
Thomas Block, pilot by day, writer by night, pens an air flight disaster novel back in the seventies with the help of his good friend, and superstar novelist in the making, Nelson DeMille.
Here’s the kick, though, DeMille gets top billing on the re-release, and partner, a DeMille book this ain’t.The airline disaster plot is a fun, quick read and Block provides plenty of tech speak and filler that could even get diehard Clancy fans reaching for their air masks.
Reading Mayday felt like watching one of those old disaster movies!The Military test-fires a missile, missing it's target the missile strikes a large passenger flight, killing the flight crew and some of the passengers, and leaving the survivors severely brain-damaged due to the loss of oxygen.
Only 3 coherent survivors are left on board, John Berry, a man with flight experience a 13 year old girl named Linda, and Flight Attendant Sharon, take it upon themselves to do everything in their power to land the plane, while certain parties on the ground have a different agenda, the Insurance Companies and the Military trying to cover up the incident.The book was originally written in the 70's, and it was updated in the late 90's.
The book is stated as "one of the greatest air disaster novels of all time".
They weren't kidding, as it is tremendous in its drama, horror, suspense, and redemption of the human spirit.
A missile is inadvertently shot through a giant passenger airplane in the middle of the Pacific Ocean.
The utter deveastation is heart wrenching, and almost all either die or are incapicated.
The other half deals with a arrogant Navy commander, and a top adminstrator of the plane corporation who are ruthless to allow this plane to crash and all die.
For anyone who enjoys top notch suspense, this book is for you!
Ok This is just what you want to read when you are flying in a couple of days, kinda like reading Jaws before a week at the beach.
A secret missile test goes awry over the Pacific Ocean and hits a jumbo passenger jet.
The missile is not armed but goes through the fuselage.
The plane loses elevation, and everyone is without oxygen for a little too long, except for a few people who were trapped in locations where the oxygen level didn't fall too low.
Needless to say, there are only like 5 people who are ok.
The rest are like zombies.
As a big Nelson DeMille fan, I was happy when I finally snagged this library ebook, but I have to say it was a big disappointment.
Excruciatingly slow at points, the basic plot is a Navy violation of an arms treaty causes a missle to inadvertently transect a supersonic jet at 62,000 feet, causing death or brain damage to all but five people, who are either in the lavatories or sub-deck flight attendant station.
Meanwhile, nobody seems to want the jet to return safely as the Navy seeks to cover its mistake and the airline and insurance carrier fear for their respective futures.
Simply ludicrous.
While an amateur plot, a flight attendant and a 13 year old girl try to fly and land the plane safely, military personnel, an insurance agent, and an airline executive, plot to undermine a successful landing to save their own backsides.
This novel is Nelson DeMille at his best.
I reminded me of another of DeMille's stand-alone novels, "The Cathedral" which I thought was great.
First, the part of the plot that had a bunch of menacing, oxygen-deprived brain-injured survivors in the plane was over-done and unnecessary.
She seemed like a add-on that wasn't given a distinct role.Despite those things, the book was a fun-scary read.
If you're into planes or disaster scenarios, you should definitely pick up this book.
It's written by a pilot so the descriptions of the plane, protocols, etc.
I've heard that some people have problems with the decompression "zombies" on the plane and while I did have problems once or twice, I honestly don't know enough about decompression to accurately gauge whether the book hammed it up or not.
I thought the ending was movie-ish.
(view spoiler)[The final showdown between the pilot and the guy who tried to kill him.
(hide spoiler)] Ironically, I don't think this made it into the made-for-tv movie.
Mayday is an exciting story from beginning to end. The story was believable and gripping, and I finished the book at 3:00 a.m. today. If you like suspense, read Mayday. You're in for a "wild ride."
May day may say maydayI felt like yelling May day throughout the entire book, one f the best I have e read in some years. it is so different than any aircraft thriller than I have ever read, until the very end. Will be reading more by this author right away.
Another great read from Nelson DeMille with author Thomas Block. This is an updated book that was published in 1979. It's very well done. Nelson is my favorite author and he doesn't disappoint in this reprinted book. His books are always accurate and to the point.
This is an edge-of-your-seat thriller that had hubby and I absolutely riveted.Highly recommended.
Disappointing, not the Nelson DeMille I know.
(If you don' like flying, this is not the book for you, because DeMille' description of the cabin' depressurization and what happens to the passengers is rather graphic.) Not everyone is killed, but all except two are left severely brain-damaged.
In the meantime, John Berry, a small plane pilot and bathroom survivor, discovers two flight attendants who had been isolated in the lower galley, a little girl and another man who had also been lucky enough to be in the bathroom at the time of decompression.
Some passengers are immediately swept away out the holes of the jet and others are injured in the immediate aftermath but what happens next is what is most frightening: The complete depressurization of the cabin at an altitude of 60,000 feet has left the majority of passengers and crew brain-damaged except for the few that were in pressure-stable areas.The hero of Mayday, passenger John Berry, is a salesman and "weekend" pilot that has only flown small planes.
Berry isn't perfect, which makes him easy to relate to.But that's not the best part...where DeMille really shines is in his antagonists: Edward Johnson, Wayne Metz, and Commander Sloan are truly despicable.
If you're looking for a thrilling story that keeps you on the edge of your seat, this is the book for you.
This is the third or fourth time that I've read Mayday.
I purchased an audio book copy for myself at my first opportunity.
Nelson DeMille is a favorite author of mine and he co-authored the book with a boyhood friend who is a pilot.
The intro for this book by Nelson DeMille is fascinating.
If you ever have the opportunity to see it you should but be sure to read Mayday first.
At first, it seems to follow the basic pattern of such novels: there's some sort of disaster, and a few people are randomly picked to survive, and have to find a way to get back home.
The plot can be easily summed up: Flight 52, a huge airliner with around 300 people aboard is hit by a missile illegally test-fired by the US Navy.
SPOILERS!!!If you are a nut about spoilers, skip this next paragraph.The plot deviates from the normal formula when, instead of trying to get them home safely, both the Navy and certain top officials in the airliner company try to bring Flight 52 down.
A jumbo jet loaded with passengers over the Pacific is accidentally struck by a missile fired by the military.
There is decompression, which not only kills the flight crew, but lack of oxygen has turned most of the passengers into brain dead zombies.
A few passengers escape this fate by being in a spot on the plane that did not decompress.
Such as Orbit where the thrusters on a supersonic passenger jet stick open and end up parking the jet in orbit, or Forced Landing about a plot to hijack a plane full of gold and land it on a stolen aircraft carrier at sea.Good stuff.
The first Nelson DeMille novel I ever picked up was "Plum Island" and I was blown away!
Because of Goodreads, I discovered this book, which is a collaboration between DeMille and his lifelong friend and aviation expert Thomas Block.
DeMille was very wise to have his friend help him with the aviation parts of this gripping novel.
It works so well and draws you in to a world at 62,000 feet above the surface of the earth and super sonic speeds!
Suddenly, that world is rocked by a wayward missile and what ensues is exciting, scary, and very compelling.
This is a book that can be discussed on so many levels.
It is fast paced and more about being "very afraid" of government cover ups and big business-$$$, than the fear of flying.
Because that is a true fear on its own.
It is full of agonizing and gut wrenching decisions by all involved.
My head can't wrap around the aftermath of the ending and there in lies another disturbing discussion.
There was a movie going on in my head the whole time, and that is one way, I judge a good book.
I’ve never read this popular author before, but picked it up because of recent news about the missing Malaysian airliner. WOW! I was on the edge of my seat throughout this thrilling story packed with great characterizations and just enough technical detail. How could a large passenger plane just disappear? This story provided one terrifying explanation – an accidental military strike. Recommended by Kelly S.
All I can say is WOW!! They gave a warning at the beginning of the audio that advised the listener to stop listening if they were on an airplane . . . and they weren't kidding!! This story was exciting from beginning to end and I couldn't wait to hear what happened next. The end was a bit anti-climatic for me as there really was no closure as to punishment for those responsible. Great listen--9 out of 10 for me.
I hadn't read a Nelson DeMille book in several years. I used to read a lot of his stories and I enjoy them very much. This one was about a plane disaster, so of course I gobbled it right up. Besides the life and death situation on the plane, there were several other things going on. Everyone seemed to want that plane to fly right into the ocean. It was a pretty intense story and I liked it a lot.
Absolutely insane, but really fun to read. It's trashy and implausible, but the idea of a guy fighting off what basically across as zombies in a decompressed, half-blown apart air-liner is pretty fun. No, they're not zombies, but they might as well be.Use it to kill some time in the dentist's office waiting room. That's what I did.
A must-read if you like airplane-disaster thrillers. Several players are involved, from the passengers and crew to the airline officials and the insurance company. The plot is rich with danger and politics, the pace is brisk, and the writing is engaging. An edge-of-your-seat thriller.
A great story involving ethical dilemmas where if just one person had made a different decision, the outcome would be different. Well written. Action-packed. EXCELLENT! Would be a good textbook for Ethics 101.
very nice read, ddnt enjoy the way they jumped scenes when the thrill got going and you go to a totally different place leaving you hanging for a good while. otherwise it has a very nice ending
I have never read a book quite like this before.
It's hard to put a DeMille book down, even if it's 500 pagesThe suspense hangs on every page!
Even though Mayday is not a recent book it is still relevant and enticingly entertaining.
The three main survivors of the airline's deadly destruction are incredibly brave, resilient and resourceful.
Berry who applies a confident and practical approach towards their survival, Sharon, the experienced professional flight attendant, provides the needed calm and ease needed in any emergency and Linda, the young preteen, does all she can to help with an abundance of trust that these strangers will rescue her.
Flying by the seat of your pants could be another title of this book, but Mayday probably says it all.
