https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34504.Wyrd_Sisters
How have I never read Terry Pratchett before?
Wyrd Sisters is a sort of parallel story, which manages to poke fun at the play, revere the play, make inside jokes about the play, and ...
This is no Life of Brian where the story itself matters less than the hilarity of the parody.
Wyrd Sisters may draw a good deal of life from Macbeth, but its real liveliness comes from Pratchett's skilled characterizations of a regicidal Duke, his murderess Dutchess, their depressed Fool, and three very colorful witches.Oh, it's just genius.
My only problem is figuring out what Pratchett novel to read next ...
Granny Weatherwax returns from Equal Rites to star in another novel, this time in Pratchett’s 1988 entry into the Discworld universe, Wyrd Sisters, his sixth Discworld novel and the second to feature Weatherwax and her sister witches.Nanny Ogg gives her a run for her money though.Pratchett provides Granny Weatherwax with a return visit and introduces two of her sisters, Nanny Ogg and Magrat Garlick as the second and third witches to stand in for the three-witch coven triumvirate (maiden, mother, and crone).
We also get to visit with Death (a recurring character in many of the Discworld books) and the Unseen University’s orangutan Librarian.Pratchett pays loving homage to The Bard with clear references to Hamlet, Macbeth, and King Lear and an overall theme of wordsmithing to give Discworld fans a touch of Shakespeare.
To do it they'll need to mess around with time and even consort with...actors - gasp!Here the gals summon a demon, with predictably Pratchett-like results:The waters seethed a little, became very still and then, with a sudden movement and a little popping noise, mounded up into a head."Well?" it said."Who're you?" said Granny, bluntly.The head revolved to face her."My name is unpronounceable in your tongue, woman," it said."I'll be the judge of that," warned Granny, and added, "Don't you call me woman.""Very well.
My name is WxrtHltl-jwlpklz," said the demon smugly."Where were you when the vowels were handed out?
However, the land itself is not very happy about the developments so against all supposed rules, the witches need to intervene.There is magic (I vastly prefer the witches' magic to the wizards' one), there is intrigue, there is a bit of swashbuckling, there is almost Shakespearean mummery, there is DEATH, there is an assortment of animals, ghosts - and many plot concepts that get turned on their heads in the most hilarious way.Best of all, on top of getting my beloved Granny Weatherwax, we are also getting her friend Nanny Gytha Ogg (the two are a great pair) AND my beloved Greebo!(If you don't know who Greebo is, just look at the quotes I liked; he's truly unique.
There have been many great reviews on this old favorite of Sir Terry Pratchett's Discworld, and I won't wax eloquent, (or otherwise), save to mention that it's full of Headology and Shakespeare references, between murdered kings and lost heirs and crowns and a mummer's farce and a showdown between Witches and the King, but even so, it's all fun as hell.I think this is the first novel of the Discworld series that truly comes into its own...
Since this is a second read of the whole series, I found this one to be an awfully familiar and warming experience.
:) All in all, it's a fun read.
"When you break rules, break 'em good and hard."Hm. I must admit I wasn't as taken with this one as I was with Mort.
Terry Pratchett's insatiable wit was still there, but I just wasn't as invested in this story.
Three witches - Granny Weatherwax, Nanny Ogg and young Magrat keep to their own little coven and rarely meddle in other affairs.
But when three knights appear carrying a baby off into the woods they become suspicious, and decide to get involved.
The rest of the time we need wages."I did enjoy it, but it just wasn't as funny as the characters of Death and Mort for me.
Equal Rites was the first and we were introduced to one of the greatest characters of all-time: Granny Weatherwax.Wyrd Sisters brings two more witches-and mentions of many others-in to fray: Nanny Ogg, Granny's best friend, and Magrat Garlick, a new-wave witch who thinks jangling jewellery and occult symbols makes you a better witch.
Despite the wonderful Granny, the amusing Nanny and the Straightforward but naive Magrat, and my love for all the Discworld witches, I couldn't enjoy this as much as I wanted.It was funny in a tittering kind of way, and the plot was interesting, but it never quite held my attention.
Hay autores que uno termina no sólo respetando, sino admirando al reconocer que además de sus talentos narrativos se trata de personas poseedoras de una cultura impresionante.
Personas cuya cultura permea por todos lados en sus obras y donde uno termina de leer los libros y dice: 'de veras éste está cañón'.Los Alberto Manguel, los Umberto Eco son parte de este grupo.
Porque toda la novela es un homenaje no sólo a Macbeth, sino a la vida y obra del Bardo, incluso con un personaje que resulta un símil del autor.
Finally another voice said, in far more ordinary tones: ‘Well, I can do next Tuesday.’I just realised that I never finished writing a review for this one even though I absolutely loved it.
The tone suggested that death was too good for cat-haters.***********************Lightning stabbed at the earth erratically, like an inefficient assassin.***********************However, in Bad Ass a cockerel laid an egg and had to put up with some very embarrassing personal questions.***********************The duke had a mind that ticked like a clock and, like a clock, it regularly went cuckoo.*********************** Demons were like genies or philosophy professors – if you didn’t word things exactly right, they delighted in giving you absolutely accurate and completely misleading answers.*********************** ‘The door’s locked,’ said the Fool.
So much fun.
The late Terry Pratchett was a hell of a writer.
I thought one of my other favorite Fantasy authors, Brandon Sanderson, was barking up the wrong tree when he lauded Pratchett as a genius.
It is clear to me that the author of Wyrd Sisters is a master of literature, with this book to prove it.
A very great first half leading to a less than perfect second half makes me look forward to the Discworld books.
I hope to choose the next Discworld novella with the same scientific and dutiful approach the kingdom of Lance adopts in choosing their king.
Κάθε μήνα [περίπου] γράφω στο PopCode για ένα από τα 41 βιβλία του Discworld. Ορίστε τι έγραψα για αυτό, ένα βιβλίο στο οποίο συναντάμε για πρώτη φορά και τις υπόλοιπες μάγισσες πέρα από τη Granny Weatherwax, ένα ξεκαρδιστικό μυθιστόρημα όπως αυτά που ξέρει καλά να γράφει ο Terry Pratchett, μια ωδή στο θέατρο και στον Σαίξπηρ που αξίζει να αναζητήσετε.Wyrd Sisters: ★★★★
“It is true that words have power, and one of the things they are able to do is get out of someone’s mouth before the speaker has the chance to stop them.” Granny Weatherwax is back!
Our favourite witch is brought to the scene when a baby is dropped at her feet leading her and her covent sisters, Nanny Ogg and Magrat Garlick, to deal with the death of a monarch and his rightful succession.
As always, the author’s recognisable writing style and humour jump at you, full of metaphors, puns and irony, and threatening all the time to take over :O)
I entered the world of witches, Shakespearean plots and a novel full of Terry Pratchett's wonderful, quirky sense of humour.
I think my favourite part of this book had to be the Shakespeare references, especially the Mabeth reference of the usurping King and Queen.
THis was probably my favourite overall plot of the Discworld series so far, but it is always Pratchett's humour that shines.
pg 227.One of my favourite descriptions in the book was of the life of a storm.
I think that since the play is commencing to start, your friends must find a seat elsewhere, when they arrive,' he said, and sat down.
Rating: 4.5 starsWyrd Sisters is the sixth book in the Discworld series, a series known for it's many books and trickiness into deciding its reading order.
It is a fun and light hearted book involving witches, kings and magic.It is a parody of the genre and it is gloriously entertaining and such a soothing change of pace from your typical fantasy novel.
I loved Magrat, the youngest witch and new one to the job.
I also really liked how they started detached and slowly became a coven and just learned to get along.
Hamlet and MacBeth had a baby, and it was a comedy.3.5 stars.
I am warming up to Witches but so far City Watch is still my favorite Discworld series.
3.5 starsThis is the second book with Granny Weatherwax, though it’s not necessary to read the first. She has two witch friends. Meanwhile there are ghosts, regicide, a traveling troupe of actors, and a very awkward romance involving one of the witches.There’s a strong plot here compared to much of Discworld. Overall it’s a parody of Shakespeare, particularly Macbeth and Hamlet. The humor is heavy on puns. It’s a fine addition to the Discworld collection and a fun book that meets all expectations. (My edition has some glaring typos in it.)
Executive Summary: Started slow, but the second half kind of made up for the first half. And very quotable as always. 3.5 Stars. Full Review Well I made it! I did 5 Discworld books in the last few months. I was able to read this book in April for Sword and Laser without having to skip any books.It's not my favorite of the bunch, but I definitely enjoyed it more than I did Sourcery. I think I might have enjoyed Equal Rites more though. I was warned that Granny Weatherwax was a bit different in th
I was able to read this book in April for Sword and Laser without having to skip any books.It's not my favorite of the bunch, but I definitely enjoyed it more than I did Sourcery.
That said, this book was still a lot of fun, especially the second half.
I look forward to seeing more of her in the future.It's been awhile since I've read Macbeth, so I'm sure I missed a lot of the references and in jokes, but I got enough of them to get a pretty good laugh.Overall another good, but not great entry in the Discworld books.
3.5 starsI read this for the Free Space for Halloween Bingo She gave the guards a nod as she went through. It didn’t occur to either of them to stop her because witches, like beekeepers and big gorillas, went where they liked. Part of the Discworld but also the Witches series, Granny, Nanny, and Magrat run and steal the show. I would describe this as kind of a Monty Python take on Macbeth and Hamlet (with a little bit of King Lear, Sleeping Beauty, Hansel and Gretel, and probably splashes of mor
We start off with the murder of a King, who becomes a ghost, our three witches taking a baby from soldiers, the new mad King and his reveling in her evilness wife, and a wise fool.
Even when we get the second part of the witches work to change things, it doesn't end up quite to their preference but maybe for the best?
Even though things may not have worked out exactly like Granny wanted, I leave you with some inspiration from her,
This might be my favorite Discworld so far!
Reading Pratchett is like reading something written by someone who finds pretty much everything interesting, and wants to share it with you without condescending or being preachy.
Oh, wait...Here he tackles Macbeth in particular, and the power of the written and spoken word in general.
His characters are no-nonsense, rational people often thrown into ridiculous situations that cause havoc and general hilarity.
You would think that a man's view of women written 25 years ago would date horribly and laughably, but it's a mark of how insightful and observant Pratchett was that they are just as warm, relevant and funny now as they ever have been.
When the King Verence I of Lancre is murdered by his cousin, Duke Felmet, one of his servants hides his child away and the child is given to three witches.
The three witches are: Granny Weatherwax; Nanny Ogg, and Magrat Garlick, so Pratchett sets up right away the three archetypes of the maiden, the mother, and the crone.
The Duke's wife is pretty horrible and I did love how Pratchett wrapped up her story.
Pure entertainment from start to finish.
Nanny Ogg is so similar to my own grandmother that I am drawn to her character first before the more famous Granny Wetherwax despite this being the grand dame of headology's first appearance as we would come to know her after the character exploration of Equal Rites.
Taking two months away from reading and reviewing has really taken its toll, I can barely think of a thing to say.
It doesn't matter though, this one has stood the test of time and in posterity stands on its own as a shining light in the Discworld cannon.
I love this trio of witches.Terry Pratchett has done it again - another fantastic tale of the Discworld.The plot is hilarious and the characters even more so. But still there's a thread of romance, a sweet little side story.This story has heart.
Libr GENIAL escrito por un genio! Leídos 6 de Mundodisco y para mi éste es el mejor. Se lleva las 5 estrellas.
Here we are introduced to three witches who decided it may be a good idea to start a coven - Granny Weatherwax, Nanny Ogg and Magrat.
They don't really know why a coven is necessary, but it seemed like a good idea at the time.
When the king is murdered (which according to the witches is just an occupational hazard), they reluctantly get caught up in town matters and politics ; and there is even a spot of romance for young Magrat.This book has the usual Pratchett humour, and many Macbeth references which I'm sure mostly whizzed past me.
Pratchett takes a jab at Shakespeare's classics31 October 2012 Well, here I am writing a commentary on Wyrd Sisters on Halloween. Okay, this book isn't about Halloween, but the three main characters are witches, and there are a lot of ghosts in this book as well, so it seems that it is quite ironic that I am writing about it now. Not that I particularly subscribe to Halloween though, since it is an American holiday, though that is a bit of a technicality since it is really only in America that i
Okay, this book isn't about Halloween, but the three main characters are witches, and there are a lot of ghosts in this book as well, so it seems that it is quite ironic that I am writing about it now.
The bloody hands that play such a significant role in Macbeth is brought out here by Pratchett in much the same way, though the odd thing is that he tells us numerous times throughout the book that it is quite natural for a king to be usurped.
The idea of power plays out a lot in this book.
Wyrd Sisters was the very first Discworld novel that I ever read, back at the tender age of eight.
One of the best things about his novels is that even if you don't get one of his references, there are so many other jokes built in that you're bound to get another one soon; and they are delivered with so much energy that you never feel ignorant for not having understood it.The witches as characters are right up there with Sam Vimes and the Patrician in my eyes; and can anyone ever hear 'The Hedgehog Can Never Be Buggered At All' without being entranced.
The second instalment of the the Witches series of Discworld is utterly hilarious, punny, and a giant nod to Shakespeare's Macbeth and other plays.I really love all the characters, but of course the Witches are my favorite.
I'm pretty sure I was rolling around on my bed at one point laughing out loud.The plot itself was a bit formulaic and a tad predictable, and I think just about everyone will recognize the nod to Shakespeare and his witches, especially since the book seems to be an almost parody of Macbeth and Hamlet mashed together.
Overall, great instalment!
