https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50144.Kitchen
Few other writers are capable of creating such exquisite surrealistic imagery as the Japanese writers.Kitchen, by Banana Yoshimoto, is no exception to this cherished convention.
Revolving around the theme of dealing with loss, Kitchen focuses on two young women as protagonists and their perceptions of life and death.
It tells us about how recurring personal tragedies shape and reshape our views on life and death, the kind of catharsis we wish for and the mechanisms we often end up resorting to, in order to keep our personal grief from spilling over into the realm of our everyday reality.Kitchen is definitely not the most ingeniously narrated tale ever.
Kitchen and its accompanying story Moonlight Shadow comprise the first novella by award winning Japanese novelist Banana Yoshimoto.
In Kitchen, Mikage Sakurai had just lost her grandmother, the last person in her family to pass away.
One day, a classmate named Yuichi Tanabe invites her to live with him and his mother in their apartment because Mikage's grandmother had a profound effect on him.
Although both Mikage and Yuichi appear to have bleak existences, their story ends with the reader feeling hopeful that they have finally turned the corner.
Her first two stories contrast the pain of death for the living with their hope for a brighter future.
Our main character is a twentyish-woman who lost her father at an early age and then her mother.
Now here’s a modern family: just two people, the young man and his mother.
But did I tell you his father is his mother?
Or, to phrase that more correctly, his mother is his father?
It’s a transgender situation.
The two young people are drawn to each other but then he is hit by loss.
This story, also about loss, and it could be the same woman, takes us into magical realism.
Photo: Model of a Japanese kitchen, ca.
Then you shouldn't be reading Yoshimoto!
Actually consisting of two novellas, Kitchen (named after the better of the two) is the story of 1990s urban life in Japan, full of quirky postmodern characters right at the beginning of an age where the Web let everyone on the planet understand that.
If you liked the movie "Amelie," you'll love the sparse, haunting story of a hurt woman being told here, who slowly learns to trust the world again through the relative warmth of urban kitchens; like I said, the finale can be heartbreaking if you let it.
Oh, just read any of Yoshimoto's books, seriously!
This is a book on healing, a lovely look at the hurting human heart and its captivating reflection.
It’s one of the most breath-taking pieces of literature I’ve read.
The stories’ elegant simplicity feels like a breeze of cold air that can hurt, numb, and refresh.
Oftentimes we read books, they touch us and we cry but after a few hours it’s completely out of mind.
The last paragraph is nothing but one of the most beautiful things I have ever read.
It stirred something inside me and after reading I felt a deep tranquility.
I feel like flying, soaring.
It comprises a novella (Kitchen) and short story (Moonlight Shadow), but I'm not sure how much is the book's fault, and how much can be attributed to being set in an unfamiliar culture (Japanese teens/twenties), possibly bad translation, and that although the atmosphere is contemporary, it was actually written and set nearly 30 years ago.I was expecting lyrical language, and quirky insights into Japanese attitudes to death and LGBTQ issues.
Houses always feel like that after someone has died."If I had lost a parent, partner or child, maybe I'd have been more engaged with this book, but I suspect my experience would be so different as to be barely comparable.
(I loved this bravado!) Most critics don’t see this as happening, saying she is a “lightweight.” Well, I put what the critics had to say aside and began reading this novel.And I have to say I loved the use of a kitchen as a metaphor for life and life’s daily interactions.
(In graduate school I did read some essays by a sociologist and anthropologist team that ventured across Europe studying bathrooms as a way to see into a country’s culture.) But if the kitchen metaphor was only a stand-a-lone point of the story, the book would have floundered.
This is an incredibly difficult question to answer, for both the characters in the story as well as for the reader.
2 " quirky, lazy, sloppy" stars !! I wanted to like this book very much. In the end, I couldn't ! Poor writing, incongruent character psychologies and inane dialogue took any enjoyment away from a rather sweet melancholy love story. Another little novella was included in this volume (Moonlight Shadow). I do not have the patience nor the stamina to read it.
Each part of the story is centered around the death of one or more individuals, who through their passing have prompted the narrator and other characters to go forth on their own personal journeys of coming to grips with what has been left to them.
Words such as 'weird' and 'strange' lose their potency in the face of the fact that, had these unusual and rather unbelievable circumstances never come to pass, another life may have joined the ones that had gone before it.Would that have made the story better?
...if a person hasn't ever experienced true despair, she grows old never knowing how to evaluate where she is in life; never understanding what joy really is. I'm grateful for it. Samadrita in her excellent review began with:There's something about Japanese writers. They have the unparalleled ability of transforming an extremely ordinary scene from our everyday mundane lives into something magical and other-worldly.I thoroughly agree with her and that magical quality transforms what could have
So when a casual acquaintance, Yuichi Tanabe, who used to work part-time in her grandmother’s favourite flower shop, invites her to stay with him and his mother, Eriko, she agrees, especially when she sees the enormous sofa, which would be her bed, in the living room and finally the kitchen.
This story is also about a young woman called Satsuki who has lost her loved one, Hitoshi but it has more of a metaphysical feel to it.
This story is all rather dream-like and so different to Kitchen but still excellent in its own right.When I looked at this title I kept on thinking about the music of Mike Oldfield's Moonlight Shadow.
Perhaps it was the themes, not only the flavour of the language, that made this taste so distinctly Japanese to me.
Quirky relationships, dramatic melancholy, organised and comfortable domesticity, defiance of convention, appreciation of food and eating, and a kind of pride of place, a cultural pride, chimed with my preconceptions.Anyway, I love this book, which makes writing look effortless (it isn't) and feels like a personal gift.
She is also a victim of anti-trans violence.Personally, I felt sad that both Mikage and her friend Yuichi are negative about vegetarian food!
Kitchen is a gentle, comforting novella about grief.
How do we continue living in despair?Mikage and Yuichi's lives are brought together by death.
They are on the cusp of falling in love or living as strangers.
It's an appealing story in which the darkness is belied by a soft quirkiness.
It wasn't up to me.""I got dressed to begin another day.
Over and over, we begin again."Moonlight Shadow is the other short story in this edition and it is...
short.
It covers much the same ground as Kitchen and feels like an earlier work.
I feel like a lot of ambiguity is being stripped by translation.
Maybe it is not a huge distinction, but when a character 'smiles' at something his friend says and then can't stop shaking it creates the impression of an unbalanced or perhaps epileptic person when, in the original, the character was simply laughing.) Even the friendly Japanese exclamatory 'えええ' has been translated with an inappropriate emotional volume.
How have you been?'” This accounts, I suspect, for a huge amount of the inconsistencies in the prose, and for characters that vacillate wildly between contradictory and inappropriate emotions.
The images of the night, the houses in the streetlight, the colour of the sunset and the sky, the moonlight in the kitchen transpire again and again in the beautifully sparse writing until one breathes completely in the dreamlike quality of it.
The loneliness of the characters flows and merges with these images.
And it’s a pain in itself to come to a delivery where one learns to take care of a memory as a memory; something that has passed and doesn’t belong to the present.
The flow of time is something I cannot stop.
Two romantic tomes that search for goodness and love in human stuff like death and food.Her writing flashes by, leaving dewy nectar dripping from your lips...
The narrator of 'Moonlight Shadow' is, like most of the other characters, feeling the impact of loss and the sense of displacement it engenders and her message is deeply humanistic-it is via other people that we overcome our sorrows, via experiencing life that we over-come the obstacles which come our way.The narrative itself is replete with many small, yet beautiful images, as Yoshimoto creates an almost idyllic Japan, a Japan of green tea reflected against the floor against the sun-light, or of the sparkling atmosphere of a nondescript kitchen at night; "The river was roaring, sweeping along everything and anything in its way on a stream o white foam.
If you haven’t seen it, count yourself fortunateNOVELSIn the Miso Soup – Ryu Murakami – yeah, I liked thisA Personal matter – Oe – yeah, I HATED thisThe Wind-Up Bird Chronicle by the other Marukami guy – I LOVED this because it was so easy to parody and gave me my top scoring review (While I was reading it was a different story)MUSICAbsolutely NOTHING And now to add to this very small Japanese input, Kitchen, a tender sprig of a novel.
My reading of this short work might have been snake-bit from the go.
In the first I’m regrettably tinny eared when it comes to stories of romance and lost love.
So perhaps it was the translation, maybe the subject matter and the narrative, but try as I might my attempts to cull the magic from this work (as my more discerning GR chums have before me) were unfruitful.
I’m not ready to give up on Yoshimoto.
Perhaps I’ll be a better reader of one of her other works.
8th book read of 500 Great Books by Women
I know that there will be so many more."It was late at night as I started to read "Kitchen" with a cup of coffee in my own Kitchen.
The book contains "Kitchen" and Moonlight Shadow" and both stories handle about lost and grieve.
I didn't want to drop the book without finishing it but was too sleepy to continue in one go.
Banana Yoshimoto's writing style is of refined simplicity and that "Kitchen" isn't just a short love story but deeper than it seems got me hooked.
It won't be the only book I read from her...
Eriko is a transvestite, who runs a gay night club and lives with her son Yuichi who studies at Uni. He was a man for a long time until his wife died and then he changes 'her face and her everything' with the help of operations.
How Mikage helps Yuichi to cope with the loss and how her passion for food keeps the friends sane forms the rest of the story in Kitchen.
Yoshimoto's Kitchen is full of eccentric characters and I can't think of a better word than weird right now to describe the plot.
Kokio jaukumo knyga!
Trūksta ir žodžių išreikšti jausmui, lydėjusiam pirmą kartą skaitomą Bananos Yoshimoto kūrybą - tarsi purus debesėlis, kurį nešiojies įsidėjęs užantin ir dėl kurio kvailai šypsais nustebusiems aplinkiniams, nes debesėlio buvimo užantyje faktą žinai tik tu :) Kuo keistesnė istorija, tuo labiau pametu galvą dėl jos.
Maloniai nustebino Yoshimoto rašymo stilius - lengvas ir skaidrus, apie liūdnus dalykus rašyti jaukiai retam pavyksta.
Kad ir kokį personažą autorė beįvestų istorijon, jis kaip mat prigyja, yra įdomus ir greitai tampa savu, nei vieno nereikalingo.
5+++"Jeigu nori tapti tvirta, patariu ką nors užauginti.
Vaiką, augalą, dar ką nors.
Tada supranti savo galimybių ribas."
Özellikle kitaptaki Mutfak romanından sonra yer alan Ay Işığı Gölgesi başlıklı uzun öyküyü çok etkileyici buldum. Her ikisi de aşk, sevdiği kişiyi kaybetme konularını işliyor. Çağdaş Japon edebiyatının örneklerinden biri olarak kabul edilen kitap.Kitapla ilgili incelemem: https://kitapokurum.blogspot.com/2018...
Banana Yoshimoto là tác giả văn học mà mình rất thường xuyên giới thiệu cho bạn bè.
"Kitchen" là cuốn gây cho mình ấn tượng nhiều nhất.
Thực sự thì thứ ấn tượng đầu tiên đối với mình không phải giọng văn, cốt truyện mà là xây dựng những nhân vật hơi "dị" như người đàn ông chuyển giới thành phụ nữ sau khi vợ mất hay cậu trai mặc đồng phục nữ sinh tới trường sau khi bạn gái mất.
Rất lạ thường.Không hiểu sao nhưng mình rất dễ bị lôi cuốn bởi những câu chuyện liên quan tới nấu ăn và bếp núc.
Quả thực, tôi không thể dành hết thời gian để trả lời những tin nhắn không có chủ đích rõ ràng, ngoài những lời nói mông lung, đượm buồn, như muốn trút bớt đi nỗi lòng mà không cần tôi đáp lại.Quả thực, chẳng bao giờ dễ dàng gì để những kẻ sống nội tâm, chìm trong những tinh cầu của mình tương tác với nhau, nếu nó không phải là sự sắp đặt của số phận, những chuỗi nhân duyên và tình cờ.
That one friend who had just the perfect quirky turn of phrase, the oddly poetic outlook on things like noodles and shoelace-tips.
My favorite part of the book, though, isn't the title novella but the one included after it, "Moonlight Shadow." The story is tight, the characters compelling, the noodles savory.
"Moonlight Shadow" is a brief work about grief and nostalgia, but also about kindness, and about how you just go on because you have to, and about the things you learn as you step further away from grief.
Sementara sang durjana magang sudah menyerah nawar buku Remy Sylado meski masih kliatan mupeng.Tak lama kemudian yang punya lapak datang, begitu dia datang gw langsung nyabet tiga buku yang udah diincer dr tadi, setelah tawar2an ahirnya dilepas dengan harga 50 rebu sajah.
jualan gak?"Buset dah, udah nanya EA, kenceng lagi sang pedagangnya langsung tersipu-sipu malu dan menjawab sambil menggelengkan kepala"Waduh, gak jualan yang gitu disini."Reaksi sang durjanawati dia langsung "menyingkir" dengan pindah ke lapak majalah  dan si durjana magang cuman bisa "prihatin" sambil menggeleng-gelengkan kepala sambil ngusap2 jidatnya  :)) gw yang kebetulan tepat disebelah dia langsung mendelik sebelum buru2 pasang wajah malaikat."Wah sayang," sang durjana senior menggumam kecewa,"sayah butuh buat penelitian."Heh?
یوشیموتو نویسندهایه که به زیبایی از حقایق قابل لمس مینویسه؛ شاید قبل از خوندنِ داستانهاش حواستون به اون حقایق نباشه، اما همینکه خطی رو خوندید، همینکه از جمله ای عبور کردید... یه لحظه مکث میکنید. مکث میکنید چون اون جمله رو خوب فهمیدید، چون قبلا با قلبتون لمسش کردید. و لبخند میزنید به درکِ قشنگی که از اون جمله دارید و حالا اون درک به قشنگی روبروی شما بین کلمات جای گرفته.  But I was afraid—terribly afraid—to even hope for such happiness.  تِم آشپزخانه ماها همه یه مکانِ به خصوص داریم که وقتی اونجا ب
یوشیموتو نویسنده‌ایه که به زیبایی از حقایق قابل لمس می‌نویسه؛ شاید قبل از خوندنِ ‌داستان‌هاش حواستون به اون حقایق نباشه، اما همین‌که خطی رو خوندید، همین‌که از جمله‌ ای عبور کردید...
مکث می‌کنید چون اون جمله رو خوب فهمیدید، چون قبلا با قلب‌تون لمس‌ش کردید.
چون به‌قشنگی توسط شخصیت اول از این آرامش خاص می‌شنویم و‌ کم‌کم باورش می‌کنیم.و می‌تونم به یقین بگم با خوندن دو‌ کتاب از این نویسنده ی ژاپنی، خواننده عمیقا می‌تونه خودش رو در فضایی با فرهنگ ژاپنی حس کنه و این لذت‌بخشه.داستان آشپزخانهکتاب، دو داستان تقریبا کوتاه و مجزا رو روایت می‌کنه.مثل کتاب قبل این نویسنده، شروع هر دو داستان با عبور شخصیت از یه بحران شروع میشه.
I have observed that some of my favourite books have been those I've read in a single sitting.
Yoshimoto's book, at 150 pages, is such a good length for a read of that sort.
For Yoshimoto, death, that most claustrophobic of silences opens up great possibilities into vistas beyond.
It was at once a miracle and the most natural thing in the world "This sums up Yoshimoto and Kitchen.
Not too much is different from our own quotidian lives, but she manages to cull out of such existence (or the lack of it) a celebration so special that the last enemy she defeats is death.
giudizi in un haikunelle cucinedi ragazzi orfani vite sospese
All her books are about loss, grief, pain, death.
With this vague cloud of Mikage and Toichi's emotional attachment to one another, Yoshimoto pulls the zoom out, and moves on to the second story in the novel.
"Moonlight Shadow" follows the same themes of death, loss, the stages of grief, and the importance of others in a support system during these times (although, here, the support is also a victim, which in some ways makes for an even better support system with more empathy).
The narrator is grieving the loss of her recently deceased love, Hitoshi, alongside his younger brother Hirragi.
