https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27426.The_Death_of_Virgil
I was immediately captivated by the first section (Water - The Arrival) of The Death of Virgil, with its masterful, lyrical prose: even in translation it flows naturally, the writing cascading like a poem (bravo, by the way, to the translator of this novel - I cannot image a more difficult work to reshape into another language).
Though it is inconsistent, and difficult, this late work of modernism is notable for what it strives to be, for what it challenges, and for the potentials it reveals in the literary form.
At first cautiously (introducing themes of rebirth and existential extrapolations on time and being lifted directly from Heidegger), and finally abandoning all subtlety and throwing in the Messianic birth to a Virgin and the ensuing holy trinity as a prophecy, 20 years before the birth of Christ and on page 266.
And, yes, I’m aware Virgil is credited with predicting the birth of the Messiah.But lets not quibble.
But Broch wades in, Wellington boots high, and ‘redeems’ Virgil through a ‘Platonic’ love fest with Plotia (but remember all is inner monologue), at his deathbed.
Then, I re-read the above, and I’m like, ‘what!
Όταν η ποίηση παντρεύεται το πεζό κείμενο με τόσο αριστουργηματικό τρόπο, είναι να απορεί κανείς ΠΏΣ ένα τέτοιο έργο δεν είναι πιο γνωστό! Αν το βρείτε σε κάποιο βιβλιοπωλείο, ανοίξτε το και διαβάστε μια τυχαία σελίδα. Αν σας αρέσει αυτό που διαβάσατε τότε αγοράστε το χωρίς δεύτερη σκέψη. Όλο το βιβλίο διατηρεί το ίδιο ύφος και γλώσσα. Αν σας κουράσει ή σας δυσκολέψει καλύτερα να μην το επιχειρήσετε...(Προσωπικά το λάτρεψα.) Φοβάμαι ότι οτιδήποτε παραπάνω αν γράψω θα το αδικήσω. Έχω να πω μόνο ότι ήταν ΑΡΙΣΤΟΎΡΓΗΜΑ. Από τα μεγαλύτερα διαμάντια της σειράς Orbis Literae!
There is much in this tale about the challenges of writers to capture the true essence of life and the torment by Virgil about his inability to truly capture it in the Aeneid.
Broch presents the rich, dense, intellectual sensibilities of Virgil with a style that will challenge and immensely satisfy readers of gorgeous literary novels.
As beautifully as this book is written, the translation by Jean Starr Untermeyer utterly blew me away -- this is a highly nuanced and complex novel about poetic sensibilities which dive deep into the abyss and float high into the "second immensity" of the "cupola of the stars".
Guy Davenport says this book "may be the final elegy closing the long duration of a European literature from Homer to Joyce." Gotta get on this one asap.
Contemporary writing has scarcely begun to avail itself of Broch’s instigations.”  George SteinerI have read this book three or four times now and, in preparation for writing this, I opened the first page and almost got sucked straight back in: “Steel-blue and light, ruffled by a soft, scarcely perceptible cross-wind, the waves of the Adriatic streamed against the imperial squadron as it steered toward the harbor of Brundisium, the flat hills of the Calabrian coast coming gradually nearer on the left...Of the seven high-built vessels that followed one another, keels in line, only the first and last, both slender rams-prowed pentaremes, belonged to the war-fleet; the remaining five, heavier and more imposing, deccareme and duodeccareme, were of an ornate structure in keeping with the Augustan imperial rank, and the middle one, the most sumptuous, its bronze mounted bow gilded, gilded the ring-bearing lion's head under the railing, the rigging wound with colors, bore under purple sails, the festive and grand, the tent of Caesar.
World historically speaking, probably a good time to get right with one's creator.As another friend told me, Reading is mostly vanity.
Choose the good.*A lot of people claim this book is boring or extremely difficult.
While I don't mean to dispute other people's incorrigible mental states, I must submit my own testimony.
For me reading Death of Virgil was a downright ecstatic experience.
I had an extremely beat-up copy from a used bookstore which nearly turned to dust as I turned the pages.
Very few novels actually push the form to its limit and make you reconsider everything; Death of Virgil is one of them.
Νομίζω οτι είναι απο τα πιο δύσκολα βιβλία που έχω διαβάσει,ίσως το δυσκολότερο,αλλά πραγματικά άξιζ
...como disse Frida Khalo: "Onde não puderes amar, não te demores."...li 50 páginas...
Perché La morte di Virgilio è un libro che merita il nostro sforzo, perché Broch è Broch e la sua lettura premia sempre il lettore.La trama è il racconto delle ultime ventiquattro ore della vita di Virgilio, da quando il poeta, malato e ormai lucido solo a tratti, arriva a Brindisi al seguito della flotta di Ottaviano Augusto, fino alla sua morte.
While reading this one gets the sense that there is no purpose in life, that we are just along for the ride, while natural laws and theoretical ideas are only toys we use for exercising the gifts of reason and story.
Unfortunately he doesn’t depart from this formula at all, so the book risks the distinction of being one of the most redundant, repetitious, and inherently boring one to readers who don’t appreciate philosophical conundrums.The pulse of the novel is a metafictional one; the ancient Roman writer Virgil is faced with the decision of burning The Aeneid before his death.
Metafiction is somewhat of a bore to me, so the third section had me skipping ahead a few times.
He wants to start again but it's too late for that...I've learnt that the German and this English translation were published simultaneously, and Broch worked closely with Untermeyer.
They were spontaneous (that’s the use of these status updates).Believe me or not, although I’ve read this book in bits and pieces over a year, I can’t wait to start on the second read.
It’s Virgil’s inside experience – of a voyage, that cannot help but remind me of the Grey Havens and Frodo’s departure by ship.
It’s of great beauty (look, that’s an understatement, and the translation must be a miracle) and there are no spoilers.
(It only struck me after writing that that ‘flat' starts ‘flattery’.) And perhaps Broch agrees, because although Virgil’s spoken and interior arguments are about reality, it is the odious flattery in his every word to Augustus that make the most potent impression.The Met opera also resonated with The Death..., as it explores idealized love versus the reality of knowing the humanity, good and bad, of the loved one.
And both books end with a death.Yesterday, after the second half of that beautiful opera, it hit me that the beautiful evanescent light bars and the boat that the Pilgrim poles back and forth across the sea-stage, in the Met production, are absolutely the perfect setting for Virgil’s voyages toward death.
Hermann Broch was fifty-one years old in 1937 when he began to write The Death of Virgil.
From the opening pages we meet a poet/artist Virgil who is on the edge of life in several different respects.
This signals another edge that will be important throughout the novel as Virgil in his illness hovers between life and death.
And could one assume that the Aeneid would be vouchsafed another or better influence?" (p 15)His own Aeneid as quoted epigraphically by Broch suggests that Virgil is "exiled by fate" just as his creation, Aeneas, was.
In one scene, Virgil sits in his room discussing the fate of his unfinished masterpiece with two of his friends.
He has visions of a young boy who earlier in the book Virgil spied weaving his way through the clamoring mob.
The servant and the young boy take turns interrupting one another and Virgil as the layers of hallucination begin to pile up and a chorus of confusion rises to a fervent pitch.
I'll definitely read more of Broch's work and would confidently recommend The Death of Virgil to any with an artistic or academic interest in modernism.
that through such conscious assimilation the dread might be expunged, only thus might one pass through the portal of dread and achieve existence;" [83]"the perogative of gods and man was laughter, from the intuition of his own destructability" [104]"the pledge was broken, the pledge that was given at the obscure beginning, the pledge that must be kept by gods and men although no one knows what it is, no one except the unknown god, for all language stemmed from him" [109]"woe to this seeming timelessness which was the essence of all intoxication and which, to maintain such diversion, must needs continue to substitute the thing created for that which creates" [128]147 - decides to burn the Aeneid"grace fused with the pledge, disclosing itself not as word, not as speech, far rather as symbol of a word, as symbol of all speech, as symbol of every voice, as the arch-image of them all, overcoming fate in the form of the holy father-summons, it revealed itself as the tone-picture of the annunciating deed: 'Open your eyes to Love!'" [187]"'I was impatient for perception...
470 sayfalık aşka, ölüme, doğaya övgü; sanatçı ve dahi sanata yergi.
Bir cümlenin birkaç sayfa sürdüğü Su-Varış, Ateş-Çöküş bölümlerinde sabırlı davranılırsa, Roma İmparatoru Augustus ve Vergilius'un "sanat, sanat içindir./sanat, toplum içindir." temalı enfes diyaloglarının sürdüğü Toprak-Bekleyiş bölümü keyif verecektir.
Ahmet Cemal aralıklı olarak 40 yılda çevirmiş, ben 2 ayda okudum, bir cümleyi yarım saatte sindirdiğim de oldu, günlerce sürdüğü de.
Okuması da, hatırlaması da, taşıması da ağır kitaplardan.
Diyeceğim o ki Vergilius'un dilinden; "Gerçeklik, sevgidir." ve "...
tanrılar, insanların çıplak şehvetin acılarını dindirmeye yönelik çabalarını aşkla ödüllendirmişlerdir, ve aşka kavuşan, gerçekliği görür; o, kendi bilincinin mekanında artık yalnızca bir konuk değildir."
È il paradosso di uno scrittore che, convinto di essere in punto di morte, scrive un'opera letteraria proprio sull'insensatezza dell'opera letteraria stessa di fronte alla morte.Il romanzo è articolato in quattro parti, diverse per stile e contenuto: nella prima Virgilio arriva a Brindisi, e si accorge di essere stato "un ospite nella sua stessa vita"; la seconda parte è un lunghissimo flusso di coscienza che sviscera in modo ossessivo il fallimento della missione poetica di Virgilio; nella terza parte i contenuti della seconda vengono dibattuti con Augusto; la quarta parte, infine, descrive il vero e proprio passaggio verso la morte, in cui Virgilio tocca finalmente l'Assoluto e l'Unità, trovando nel Logos ineffabile la chiusura del cerchio (anche se a questo punto Broch ci ha convinti dell'impossibilità di descrivere l'assoluto con mezzi terreni).È da un po' di tempo che il tema dell'assoluto raggiungibile solo nella morte ritorna nelle mie letture.
This book was amazing!!
I can't pretend to understand most of the stream of consciousness.
The basic straight-forward story is short and quickly told: the last 18 hours in Virgil's life as he is dying.
Wow, some of the phantasmagoric descriptions, both straight-forward and surreal, and word-pictures are absolutely startling and haunting!!
Someday I'll reread the book again.
A big help was to read the book aloud; I could visualize more easily and could wallow in the language.
This is not an easy read, but well worth it and highly recommended.
Maravilloso es quedarse corto...
Epic theme, interesting exiled author (Viennese Jew fled to the States and wrote this after the trauma of fascism), lyricism, density, blurbs from heavyweights like Hannah Arendt and George Steiner.Hell, I even decided to read The Aeneid before delving into this one just because it's ridiculous that I hadn't and I wanted to get the backstory.
Loved it, by the way, so that was time well spent.And I'm definitely a fan of the Modernist several-pages-to-a-sentence, subjective immediacy style (Joyce, Faulkner, Woolf, etc) But this was just...exhausting.
It's been a while since I've read a novel that I've actually contemplated not finishing.
Well...there are passages of exquisite beauty and the overarching idea is interesting (art as linked to perception which is linked to love and thus utter enlightenment) but Broch brings the notions across much more in his (what I thought were) abstruse philosophical writings.
However, what he 's done in "Virgil" is try way too hard to convey some aesthetic notions of the ethics of art in a bombastic, repetitive, and downright treacly way.
The book ostensibly recounts the last day of Virgil's life as he contemplates burning the Aeneid.
I can take a hard bite, when it comes to difficult literature, but this one just went too far for me.
The last days of Virgil as a theme is really interesting, and Broch gives a very lively account of the life at and around the court of emperor August.
But his way of writing, with endless sentences full of "moodish"-nouns that go in every direction (usually two opposites), is making reading the book a real ordeal.
I know there are people who can enjoy this style, as I can see on these pages of Goodreads, but this time I have to say: this one is not for me.
-Güzel olan, yalnızca yüreğin ve düşüncenin ortak özlemleridir; o sonsuz iç ve dış dünyanın özlemle yoğrulmuş bölünmemişliğidir.-Kitle, tek bir insanın kişiliğinde kendine tapıyordu.-Asıl hakikat, o tatlı baştan çıkarmalar değildi, hayır, ancak gözyaşlarıydı insanı görür kılan ve gözler, ancak nice acıların ardından görebilen gözlere dönüşüyordu.-Yenik düşüp kırbaçlananlar, galip geldikleri için sevinç çığlıkları atanlar, bütün bunları içine sindirebilen, taşlaşmış bir dünya, yanan gözler, şenlik ateşleri içerisinde boğulup gitmiş bir körleşme -o halde, hangi sihirli hayata hazırlanmak içindi kendini uyanık tutmak?
N.B. la parte conclusiva "Etere - Il ritorno" è un'autentica estasi senza fiato di 40 pagine.Cit.
Even if you’ve absolutely no interest in reading classic Greek or Roman Literature this is still an absolutely incredible novel in spite of the fact that that it deals with precisely this time period and subject matter.
As his illness takes hold of him, the writing of this book takes on a surreal turn and here the narrative becomes a stunning work of stream of consciousness, at times abandoning sentence structure entirely similar to Joyce’s Ulysses.
Broch’s reputation is considered by many to have likewise achieved this very same aim in the writing of this book but seems to have somehow slipped from memory.
My favorite writers when it comes to language is Virginia Woolf and and Patrick O'Brian, where it almost doesn't matter what they write because I will read it and like it.What I've discovered is that while I talk and think about the characters the most, love an interesting and vivid setting, and can take or leave plot, the real deal breaker for me is the language.
Dünya edebiyatına baktığımızda insanın kendisi ile bu kadar büyük bir hesaplaşmaya giriştiği bir başka örnek var mı?
Vergillius'un ölümünden önceki son saatleri üzerinden hem insan varlığının - aynı anda hem tanrısal hem zavallı olabilen o karışımın - zaaflarını, hem sanatın ahlâkını, hem toplumu, devâsa bir kitle olarak sürüleşen ve hayvanî bir tek gövde oluşturanı ...
Yalına ve sessizliğe yolculuk, zaman ve doğa sarmalı ile muhteşem felsefik bir yolculuğa yelken açmak değil midir ?
Leer la muerte de Virgilio requiere de compromiso, sin duda tiene su recompensa en el uso maravilloso de lenguaje llevado al límite que lo hace tan extraordinario. Es por mucho el libro más bello que he leído en donde sería difícil encontrar un tema no tratado desde el umbral de la muerte.
This has most of what I like about modernist german literature (the informed but still somewhat mystical reflections on art, poetic stream of consciousness, the slow-meditative pace) and highlights the best parts of the Aeneid. One of the best
