https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/340321.Jennifer_Hecate_Macbeth_William_McKinley_and_Me_Elizabeth
I enjoy E. L.'s work. What an interesting little story. It's about two lonely girls who become friends. One claims to be a witch. They meet at the library every Saturday. Elizabeth becomes a witch in training. This book is from the 60s and it's pacing and content fit in to that time. I can't really say why I like this book so much; I just enjoy it. Maybe, it's having something to look forward to in life with a friend and it's about reading. Anyway, it's a 100 page book. Give it a try.
Jennifer, Hecate, Macbeth, William McKinley and Me, Elizabeth is a reading experience for me that would be akin to finding an old, well worn toy in the attic; I love to reread it, I think the story is wonderful (mostly because of memories), but this is not something that I would necessarily consider passing on immediately to a young reader-- mostly because of how well worn it is.
The story suffers slightly from being a product of its generation.
The story is best for readers 8-12, especially those who may be a witch, or are strongly considering taking up the profession.
I KNOW I read this book LAST YEAR and even wrote a review, but now all record of it is gone, gone, gone like the mastodon!

92nd book read in 2017.Number 421 out of 656 on my all time book list.Odd story of misfits finding friendship in each other.
Elizabeth and Jennifer are two of the more well drawn and memorable best friends in children's literature in this well respected (if not quite beloved) classic.
The fact that they are interracial friends probably meant a ton in 1967, although I don't recall thinking that was such a big deal twelve years later or so when I first read this (probably around 1980).
Elizabeth, who narrates, is far snarkier and less shy than you would imagine; Jennifer is perfectly serious in a hilarious way.
Frankweiler later that same year, and it's a slightly better book; it certainly has a better ending!
This was a Newbery Honor book in the late 60's and had an interesting premise so I was excited to read this book but...it reads like it was written in the late 60's and just hasn't aged well.
This was probably my favorite childhood book. I was thrilled to find a copy a few years ago at the thrift store. I remember giggling as I repeated the whole long name of the story to friends, telling them they HAD to read this book. Somehow the title seemed longer back then...
It's hard to like them when they seem to be doing a lot more jerky things than Cynthia is.I liked that the book captured the feeling of finding out what's next in unexplored territory, though; I remember discovering new subjects and wanting to follow graded steps to understanding, and that's well reflected in Elizabeth's desire to loyally obey Jennifer's commands in order to ascend the ranks of witchcraft.
The story is simply about two girls who are friends, with a light refrain on being different.While Elizabeth's age is never specified, both Elizabeth and Jennifer are in "5th form", and Jennifer is a "serious reader".Jennifer - protagonist, says she's a "Witch" and becomes Elizabeth's friend.Hecate - goddess associated with witches.
(William McKinley was the 25th President of the US).Elizabeth - protagonist and narrator, Jennifer's apprentice witch.Appealed to and engaged a young Aussie girl 45 years after it was first published.
In an attempt at post racial colorblindness (hah!) the author mentions only once that Jennifer is black.
And although it seems well-meant, it's the kind of intentional ignoring of race that has sealed America's racial issues in amber.
Does the narrator ignore Jennifer as school because they are being witchy and mysterious or because openly being friends with a black girl would have marked her as well?Anyway, as a story this is kind of a weird little book.
As a mirror reflecting the narrator/author's unwillingness to acknowledge race, it's an interesting artifact.
Why are we trapped in the dull friend's POV?
Hmm. It’s not that I didn’t enjoy reading it, it just seemed a bit pointless at the end.
I told Jennifer that I didn’t think some of them made any sense.
I asked Jennifer if she always obeyed the taboos.
She said that she always did—except that now she was allowed to light matches.
I asked Jennifer for a list of the taboos so that I wouldn’t disobey by mistake.
She said that witches don’t rely on lists.
She said that I must memorize the lit before school started the next day.
She stood up and said to me, “You have reached the end of your apprenticeship.
I don't know how I missed this book in childhood given that I loved others by E.L. Konigsburg (chief among them, From the Mixed-Up Files of Mrs. Basil E.
It's a marvelous book about not fitting in and friendship which I have no doubt speaks to the young readers for whom it was written, but it also has many layers for the adult reader to savor.
Jennifer, the self-professed young witch under whose spell narrator Elizabeth falls while friendless and new to town, is a wholly original character.
And so too is Elizabeth, although in less obvious ways.
I am so glad this showed up in my recommendations!
I've been thinking - what was that book I read in third grade where that girl becomes friends with that witch and they try to come up with a potion that lets them fly?
I'm pretty sure this is it.
I loved this book.
Even when me and my friends decided to come up (unsuccessfully) with a potion that let us fly.
From what I remember, there was some lesson to be learned at the end, but that escapes me.
The odd girl and the flying ointment - that's what I remember!
This is Konigsburg's first book, and while I liked it, it definitely doesn't measure up to her later books. But it does have a fantastic title! Elizabeth is befriended--sort of--by Jennifer, who takes her on as an apprentice witch. Jennifer is a fantastic character, singularly herself; she divulges no personal details and doesn't seem to care what anyone else thinks (often with hilarious results).
Konigsburg's first published book - has its moments as she traces lonely Elizabeth's unusual friendship with Jennifer whose apprentice in witchcraft she becomes - loses momentum at some point and never recaptures it but has all the elements that Konigsburg will later pull together so beautifully in Mixed-Up Files
I reread this for the first time in years after hearing of Konigsberg's passing. It's as good as I remember. I like it that the author leaves us in doubt for a long time as to whether or not Jennifer is really a witch. I also liked it that she was black and Elizabeth was white, and it didn't make a bit of difference in the story.
One of my favorite authors. This one feels a little off-kilter, but maybe it's just the way that this girl friendship works. Zoe really liked this one, and maybe I'd like it more if I read it again. I like "The Mixed-up Files" and "The View From Saturday" WAY better.
Elizabeth new to the area meets Jennifer who is unlike anyone she's met before and claims to be a witch. I enjoyed this and know if I'd found it as a kid it would have been a favorite. It didn't feel as dated as I expected (1967).
I never read this as a child, but really enjoyed this story of two misfit girls who practice witchcraft in New York. Their secret friendship empowers them in unexpected ways and the author tells a good story, as always.
A really sweet little book. Loved it when I was 9, got it for my 9-year-old, she loved it, too. Just reread it.
One of my favorites as a kid.
It, alongside Harriet the Spy, changed my third grade world. And the grades after that. Best EL Konigsberg book. Period.
It was a pretty good book. My mom finally got me to read it and I am sort of glad she did.
So my friend lent me another one of this lady's books (The View From Saturday), and I realized that I had this book on my shelf!
(I've actually had in on my shelf for a small millennia, but it's finnneee.)This book is super short and a really easy read.
It's funny, because I think this is one of the first books E.
So I read the opposite ends of her work!
It was very different from A View From Saturday; I thought that book felt much grander and the characters more full, even though it was about the same length as this book.
GB
Cute.
2. Elizabeth's fascination with Jennifer and the weird power she had over her.
She was akin to a total friend-crush for Elizabeth, who was so interested in Jennifer that she would pretty much put up with anything.
I had never heard of pilgrims, not being American, and I was quite interested in the arcane knowledge Jennifer delivers on this stuff, on witch history and myth.
She's almost like Elizabeth's imaginary friend, because no-one knows they are friends, sorry, witches.6.
So it kind of explains why Jennifer is on her own at the start too.
As I was reading, I found a number of things I remembered and many I'd forgotten, including the ending, which was very satisfying.On her way to school after lunch one day, fifth-grader Elizabeth chances upon Jennifer, a new classmate, sitting in a tree.
Over the course of the next several months, their friendship remains a secret from their classmates, but thrives in spite of that - or, perhaps, because of it.The ending is a bit of a surprise as Elizabeth gradually realizes that maybe her friend isn't as mysterious as she'd like to be seen.
Frankweiler, and The View from Saturday).When I was half way into the book, I realized that I had actually read this book in elementary schoolin Korean (I didn't regognize the title because the title of the translated version was 'my friend is a witch').
I remember I was also reading a book called 'little witch' (in the translated version) by a German writer.
wierd I know.Anyway, when I borrowed this book from the library this time, my boyfriend had read the first page while I was checking out other books, and he told me it was about this girl who doesn't have any friends, but one day meets this other girl (jennifer) in the woods.
