https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6838527-on-the-concept-of-history
For consistency, I just read the right pages.Walter Benjamin (1892-1940) was a German literary critic, philosopher, social critic, translator, radio broadcaster and essayist.
Benjamin uses The Turk, a famous chess-playing device of the 18th century, as an analogy for historical materialism.
Thesis I goes like this:"Sinasabing may automaton na nakakasagot sa bawat kilos ng manlalaro ng chess upang ito ang tiyak na mananalo sa laro.
However, suffice it to say that this book is worth reading and pondering if you are into history and philosophy.
Because most of the time, I am not sure what to make of those theses that I read in the book.
Il correttivo di questi ragionamenti sta nella riflessione che la storia non è solo una scienza, ma anche, e non meno, una forma della rammemorazione. Ciò che la scienza ha «stabilito», può essere modificato dalla rammemorazione. La rammemorazione può fare dell'incompiuto (la felicità) un compiuto e del compiuto (il dolore) un incompiuto.
Simple to read, written in, what I believe to be, a dialectic mode each paragraph stands as a hypothesis tangentially related by historical materialism.
Written when Mr. Benjamin was in grave danger from real Nazi police, the pseudo-emergency of 'The War on Terror' is NOT Thesis VIII.
Little pockets of trivia & poetry are squeezed in, what do you know about the Mechanical Turk?
Ultimately, an excellent statement of relation between history's logic, making history in the eternal present and the broader social mood.
Much better than what I had expected.Read online and in English.
I expect to have missed subtleties that matter.
No Future, pre-Edelman and more conclusive. Benjamin, however, is not shy to bring his argument to its conclusion. Set up against the dialectical materialist conception of history, he describes a conception of history that points towards the "messiah's coming" (i.e. revolution) without requiring that we need to or should wait for it. Rather than hoping towards the future, he would have us remember the struggles and misery of the past and then destroy the present.
Some excellent criticisms of Marx's historical materialism, many of which I have thought something similar to in recent months; Mr. Benjamin, however, was able to formulate these thoughts much more eloquently than I.I regards to history I am skeptical than any attempt -- no matter how vast or erudite -- to make sense of it can escape the sentiment of Pascal when he said: "Le nez de Cléopâtre, s'il eût été plus court, toute la face de la terre aurait changé."
Creo que se pueden decir muchas cosas de este pequeño libro, nunca publicado por Benjamin, pero deben ser más reflexionadas, por lo que esto no es un lugar apropiado.
Entre muchas frases que hay para rescatar, me quedo con esta.:"En la idea de la sociedad sin clases, Marx secularizóla idea del tiempo mesiánico.
Y estadoctrina fue la filosofía escolar del partidosocialdemócrata (...) Una vez definida la sociedad sin clases comotarea infinita, el tiempo vacío y homogéneo, setransformó, por decirlo así, en una antesala, en lacual se podía esperar con más o menos serenidad eladvenimiento de la situación revolucionaria.
"A Klee painting named Angelus Novus shows an angel looking as though he is about to move away from something he is fixedly contemplating.
His eyes are staring, his mouth is open, his wings are spread.
This is how one pictures the angel of history.
But a storm is blowing from Paradise; it has got caught in his wings with such violence that the angel can no longer close them.
The storm irresistibly propels him into the future to which his back is turned, while the pile of debris before him grows skyward.
This storm is what we call progress."
kembali membuka-buka lagi... ini memang tulisan yang monumental.banyak kutipan yang beredar berasal dari sini.termasuk epitaph benjamin sendiri mengutip dari risalah pendek yang dibukukan juga hanya beberapa lembar ini:“there has never been a document of culture, which is not simultaneously one of barbarism”
Just as Marxist as I thought it would be... but his thesis XI is interesting.
Leyéndolo mientras esperaba a un amigo a que la mañana le hiciera efecto de conciencia..., y a propósito de mi tema de investigación, esta perspectiva mesiánica de Benjamin remite de inmediato a la esperanza de incidencia metahistórica del Mesías.
Como si se emparejara el autor alemán con sus congéneres talmudistas y no se tuviera ahora otra opción más que realizar de forma secular este tikkun olam de manera política.
Y así, el final de toda la reflexión benjaminiana está trasladada hoy por filósofos como Rancière y la "repartición de lo sensible" porque Benjamin, al final, habla del arte...
Benjamin is overbroad in his treatment on the competing views of history: too unequivocal in his critique of historicism, arguing at several points that it is nothing more than an instrument of the powerful (failing to acknowledge its virtuous potential); and somewhat confused in his account of historical materialism (but I may not have read the piece carefully enough).
That said, the task of "remembrance" briefly pointed to by Benjamin in the addendum could perhaps be read as in dating something analogous to Humboldt's concept of history.
In terms of essays by Walter Benjamin; this piece ranks far below "Unpackng My Library" or "The Translator's Task".
I've read other Benjamin and have enjoyed it. This was a bit esoteric for me. I certainly understood some of it and enjoyed a few of the sections--but as a whole I feel clueless. In a sentence, can you tell me what this is about? I'm interested in theories of history. It reminded me of Bruce Popper's works on the open society. I need to read more Marxist philosophy. Must.... Comp.... rehend.....
About historical materialism vs. historicism. Benjamin says that for revolutionaries historical materialist approach must interpret and reclaim history in light of current events. It's short, give it a read.
10/10
