https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17357393-i-am-jonathan-scrivener
Wracked both economically and psychologically by two world wars, the British Empire ultimately had to cede its former economic and military dominance on the world stage to an upstart in the empire business, a wayward offspring known as the United States of America.
The old once more had to give way to the new, as is the nature of things.
The fact remains that ‘I am Jonathan Scrivener’ above all is an astonishing, wholly unique feat of psychological study (actually multiple studies, the success of the novel absolutely hinges on the in-depth study of an assortment of widely divergent personalities).
Review originally published at Learn This Phrase.First published in 1930, I Am Jonathan Scrivener concerns the unlikely adventures of James Wrexham, a disillusioned clerk of almost forty who has achieved little in his uneventful life. Wrexham considers himself not only to be a lonely man but to be defined by loneliness, yet - unlike many lonely people - he feels this has enriched his understanding of others. I have known years of loneliness and there is a type of experience which is revealed onl
He is the 'light relief' character, the least obvious fit for Scrivener's group of friends, seeming to lack the others' yearning for a unique sense of being, and his cheerful volatility appears to bring out the best of Wrexham's dry wit:Rivers was an entirely new experience for me.
I Am Jonathan Scrivener is a sort of mystery, making it a compulsive read, but more than that it is simply a story about people, their psychology, their differences and depths of character, what they might be driven to accept or reject given a wealth of opportunities.
Νομίζω ότι το χειρότερο πράγμα που έχει συμβεί στο εγχώριο εκδοτικό γίγνεσθαι είναι ότι αυτό είναι το μοναδικό μεταφρασμένο έργο του Κλοντ στα ελληνικά.

I dig it!The second best thing is Part Three of this book where it took a sudden mystical turn.
There are also flashes of Chesterton's The Man Who Was Thursday, early Evelyn Waugh, and the religious supernatural tales of Charles Williams."Another plus is that he comes highly recommended by Graham Greene.Claude Houghton is known for his psychological thrillers and I Am Jonathan Scrivener is a psychological narrative where the mystery is played out on a mindscape, but more often than not it reads like a social drama.
Quite extraordinary. A subtle and complex exploration of a damaged post-war society. A psychological investigation. A mystery that will get its claws in. Highly recommended.
Στο φετινό τοπ 10 άνετα... Το προτείνω σε όλους
The characters are vivid and their psychology studied outright in detail; the writing, like the narrator, is sober and considered but never dull.As I lost access to the library where I first read this, I hunted down a copy from the 1930 printing; the publisher states that those who intend to keep the book should rebind it, which none of the previous owners bothered to do.
If you find little pieces of it scattered between here and SoCal, it was because I had to keep reading.
Wrexham, through whom the story is told, responds for a position as secretary to a London gentleman (Scrivner as it turns out), and is hired by that man's lawyer, without meeting the client.
Scrivner has decamped, correspondence forwarded via his bankers, leaving Wrexham alone in the flat to catalogue the books, officially.
Wrexham's "duty" seems to be to deal with four other people who had met Scrivner briefly, and were now in a sort of "thrall" to him.
psychological guesswork on their parts as to why Scrivner brought them all together via Wrexham (the four had been unknown to each other).
Romanzo strano e paranoico che fonde indagine psicologica, mistero e paradosso.Buono a tratti ma pure gli intermezzi noiosi non scherzano.Finale ad orologeria che non spiega niente.Non so, forse mi sono perso qualcosa ma mi è sembrato sotto le aspettative. [69/100]
The book was released in 1930 and its author, Claude Houghton, should now, if justice be served, enjoy a richly deserved renaissance in the minds of the reading public.After living a humdrum existence into his thirties having been left little or no money in his recently deceased father’s will, the public school educated Wrexham goes to work in the offices of a small provincial town’s solicitor’s partnership.
Although their accounts differ significantly in certain respects each of Scrivener’s friends provide snippets of information about him that allow Wrexham to gradually form a picture.
The clerk James Wrexham, a nameless nobody, has been leading a miserable and lonely life until he reads an ad from Scrivener and becomes oddly Scrivener's secretary, obliged to catalogue Scrivener's maddenly various library whilst ensconced in his employer's luxurious Pall Mall (pell-mell?) flat, without ever meeting him.
Peopling Wrexham's tale are Scrivener's friends, contrasting witty types: femme fatale and ethereal beauty, drunk and man of fashion, stuffy lawyer and crook.
The dialogue is first-rate, and the mystery of who Scrivener and Wrexham are is finally solved amidst echoes of the Secret Sharer.
An odd, fascinating book which vividly paints a expressionistic portrait of several characters, and London, in the 1930s. An existential study of interwar society.
I read this book because I am a keen reader of crime & mystery classics and also I had heard it was a lost or little read masterpiece.
Although the book has a mystery as it's basis (trying to find out who Jonathan Scrivener is and why he has befriended and employed various people) - this basis is only used as a frame in which to discuss various personality types and to get the reader to self reflect upon him/herself - the entire middle section and much of the later part of the book is taken up with this quest.

I really enjoyed it at first - just so different and intriguing. The narrator leaves a lonely and humdrum existence to become secretary to Jonathan Scrivener, the mysterious character who has gone away and left his flat and library for his secretary. The mystery of who or what Jonathan Scrivener is occupies the lives of several of Scrivener's friends and the narrator himself. I just thought that it was a bit long and I did not always find the ideas about how we live convincing.
4.5 stars...
An unexpected treat. Ventures into the nature of self throught relations.
It has been highly praised and yet has never been very popular … except among those who have read it.James Wrexham, a 39 year old man, answers an advertisement and takes on a new position as the personal secretary for a man, Jonathan Scrivener, whom he has never met.
(Wrexham’s terms of employment are exceedingly generous.) He moves into the man’s home, and is essentially given one task, namely to catalogue the man’s impressive library.
He quickly gets to know all of these people, each of whom is troubled and each of whom seems to know a different Jonathan Scrivener.
I discovered this writer and this book in "The Golden Age of Murder: The Mystery of the Writers Who Invented the modern detective story," by Martin Edwards.
"Scrivener" is a very strange sort-of whodunit from 1930, during the Golden Age of british mystery novels.
Here are a few:"Nothing shakes the foundations of our civilization so violently as the suicide of a millionaire.
If this were not so, civil warfare would be the monotonous characteristic of national life.""The room was a creation, not an arrangement."I only hope I can track down more of his books.
Claude Houghton is one of the finest interwar writers of the twentieth century and deserves to be read much more than he is today. He is a master of dialogue and "I am Jonathan Scrivener" is a prime example of Houghton's skill. Though one of his best novels, this is not his best, owing to the somewhat languid pacing and abrupt and underwhelming ending. However, the dialogue and relationships of the characters are worth reading and will sustain you till the end.
Really a 3 and a half stars.
An entertaining novel in which the main character does not appear until the last line...
