https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77264.Homeland_and_Other_Stories
Like a lot of her gifts, the aforementioned Mom Stigma kept me from tearing right into it; on the contrary, it was five months before a long road trip provided the impetus to finally see what Ms. Kingsolver had to tell me.The timing, I found, couldn't have been better.
By the time we'd left New England my literature stash was already half-depleted, so as the forests and fast pace of the northeast faded into the slow, rolling hills of the south I said a silent prayer that my mom didn't strike out, smoked a bit of marijuana and tackled the first story.Give either Kingsolver or the pot credit- I've never been able to keep interested in Native American stories (am I a bad person?
and are now using the last set over and over."COVERED BRIDGESA couple ponder whether to start a family, while visiting the covered bridges typical of the area: possibly crossing from one type of life to another.QUALITY TIME"Organisation is the religion of the single parent", and guilt is the price.STONE DREAMSThe husband loves and studies rocks as a hobbly; the wife "clings to steady things, like a barnacle clings to a boulder", but it is a strained relationship.
The title refers to houses that have been split into apartments, so that each is missing something - as the inhabitants themselves might be.EXTINCTIONSA woman takes her young sons back to her family home in a small town, bringing back all sorts of memories (but leaving gaps as well) and tensions.
Kingsolver is nothing if not political.
She writes stories with a purpose.
Her characters are strugglers not stragglers.
She is of the South, but fights its good ole boy ways.In each story, the main character, most always female, fights, fights as if her life depends upon it.
Each story is powerful and no issue is resolved.
Kingsolver writes about real life problems which are rarely solved.
The heroines of these stories are torn, tugged at and sometimes tempted, but they are not toadies.
Kingsolver is like a ventriloquist, creating tableaux for her characters to speak from her heart.
In the end, I decided that the great stories outweighed the meh stories, and so it got four stars.
At first, this bothered me, until I realized it's a perfect statement about life and relationships-- it never really "ends" one story just stops.
Overall though, a really great book with some beautiful writing that really worms its way permamnently into your brain.
In these moments we are driven to try and hoard happiness by taking photographs, but I know better.
A photograph would have flattened the scene into a happy moment, whereas what I felt was rapture.
It struck me as funny the way people would literally run up to one of the great masterworks of Western Art and get their picture taken, and the way folks would elbow their way to get as close as possible to the Mona Lisa or Van Gogh's Self Portrait.
Homeland is a collection of short stories that range in subject matter from the descendants of a Cherokee woman who seem not to realize that their great-grandmother is an Indian, a woman having an affair and on a camping trip with her lover, a little girl's first encounter with a lesbian in her small town, a union leader trying to get her folks through a strike, two thieves that live in two connected apartments, and more.
I read it and then put the rest of the book down for a few weeks as I just kept thinking about it.
Her last fresh roasting ears from the garden." She was like an old pine, whose accumulated years cause one to ponder how long it has stood, not how soon it will fall." These lines are indicative of how thoughtful and beautiful her writing is.
(It makes me imagine the ponderosa pine.) Ahhhh, her writing is, simply, exquisite.Other favorites within the collection: Blueprints, Stone Dreams, and Rose-Johnny.Warning: Sometimes these stories and characters are so real and relatable that it hurts to read them.
These delicious stories are another reason I adore Barbara Kingsolver. She never fails to woo me with her simple, yet intriguing storytelling. I return to her time after time.
If I were teaching a fiction workshop to undergraduates, I think this would have to be on my reading list.
Kingsolver waltzes with those story components so gracefully and each story has range; the reader does not feel as if she is reading the same story with slight shifts.
With each story, I felt comfortable with it as a whole entity, though with many, I wish there were more, wanting to live in that world a bit longer.
The only issue I took were a good handful of her endings--they felt as if she were wrapping things in the last paragraph.
I didn't expect this book.
I read Prodigal Summer years ago, but this book is entirely different.
Fifty percent percent of the stories are awesome.
The rest are interesting but nothing stunning.
The thing that is impressive about this book is the range of voices.
As a collection of short stories it showcased Kingsolvers' ability to write convincingly from lots of different perspectives: the Latina strikebreaker, the white trash theif, the unhappily married woman - all female voices from different walks of life,occupations, concerns, countries.
I enjoyed seeing her tackle all hese different stories.
A very interesting collection of short stories that introduce the reader to women in a variety of situations and at various stages of life.
Kingsolver has a fine ear for dialog and seems able to dive straight to the heart of all manner of issues that confront our understanding of what it means to be a woman.
Each of these women proves heroic in some small way and her remarkable ability to draw us into the story is on brilliant display.
This reader came to care about each of these women in some fundamental way.
That is the power of her art.
Glad to return to an older Kingsolver book. Fine stories all, set in places like CA, Kentucky and St. Lucia. Mostly female protagonists and narrators. Mostly about complex women of various ages who face up and 'fess up to challenge and change. Especially liked "Blueprints," "Bereaved Apartments,"Jump-up Day," and "Why I Am A Danger To The Public." I love the way K. weaves in place, time, nature, and the ties that bind us despite our differences.
It has been a while since I read a book by Barbara Kingsolver, but as was the case with her earlier works, I was quickly drawn into her way of noting that which is special in ordinary lives.
Reading this collection of short stories was kind of like eating a box of assorted chocolates; many of the selections were really delicious, while a few were just “meh.” One story that I especially savoured was “Covered Bridges.” It describes a couple who found love later in life and who were struggling over whether to have a child or not until a near-fatal event caused them to re-evaluate their decision.
Phenomenal. I'm adding this to my list of reasons to love Barbara Kingsolver.
I just need to stay away from short stories. I don't like them!
Once again, Barbara Kingsolver does not disappoint.
Her writing is lovely, as usual, and over the course of these twelve stories, she touches on topics that any human could related to.
I chose to read this book during a time when I was working hard in a storage unit, sorting through 50 years-worth of my mother's and father's possessions.
It was physically- and emotionally-draining work, and I wanted to come home and curl up with a book that wouldn't tax me further.
I knew I'd be "safe" with Barbara Kingsolver.
I particularly enjoyed three stories: Homeland, Bereaved Apartments, and Rose-Johnny.
is Barbara Kingsolver even capable of short stories?
Wonderful characters, not surprisingly.
Is it weird to say that my biggest complaint was that I would get to love the characters then on to the next story?
Sorry, Barbara, but you do that to me.
Every story was so unique, I really enjoyed each.
The main characters were pretty much always women (no surprise there).
But I still feel weird reading short Kingsolver stories.
There was this one very small character I found in three of the stores, if only lightly mentioned, so I have no idea what that could be about...
It's always difficult to rate a collection like this.
I feel like four stars is an insult to the awesomeness of the several stories I loved, stories that I will return to again and again--both as a writer and a teacher of writing.
Still, I can't in good conscience give the whole book five stars--it wouldn't be fair to my favorite stories to imply that the less-great stories could hang with them.
Regardless of ratings, Kingsolver is a gifted short story writer.
I'm surprised this is her only short story collection given her prolificness since it was published in 1989.
I am a bit embarrassed to admit I've never really read anything by Kingsolver before; I started Flight Behavior when Hannah was a baby, and my e-book library loan ended before I could really get into it.
On the flipside, I am happy to have "discovered" a new author whose books I can pick up without much worry about whether or not the writing will be good.
I enjoyed each of the stories in this collection and was impressed by Kingsolver's range in voice, point of view, character, and style.
There are two stories that I think would be interesting and appropriate to read with my students, "Homeland" and "Rose-Johnny".
Again, another leap of faith I took on a Barbara Kingsolver piece.
Not usually a short story reader but I had to try.
Not my favorite of hers but just as satisfying as her other works.
What I found most amazing about this collection of short stories was how raw and loud her political and social voice came through in these stories.
More so than her novels.
This would make sense since one has less time in which to lull the reader into a sense of what you the writer are trying to say so the message comes quickly and suddenly.
This collection of short stories all have women as the protagonist. What makes the book interesting is the variety of characters. Kingsolver portrays people as diverse as a native matriarch,couples at various stages of their marriages who have lost the ability to communicate or trust, a single mom,a union supporter. Unconventional women,ordinary women, but all strong women. Her stories made me wish that she had written a novel about each one; I wanted to get to know them better and see them in many aspects of their lives. The quality of good writing, I think.
While I'm not a huge fan of short stories, if the author is Kingsolver they're going to be good. These particular tales revolve around the theme of family. Especially good was "Bereaved Apartments', about an elderly woman with antique treasures who thinks someone has broken into her home over 100 times and damaged or stolen her belongings. Kingsolver doesn't really resolve (no pun intended)her stories so much is left up to the reader to imagine. Sometimes I like that, and sometimes I want it all spelled out for me. Still, many good stories here.
I wasn't sure about this, but I needed something different after all the fantasy and science fiction I've been reading. I haven't read much Kingsolver, and it's been a while since I tackled a short story collection, but I really enjoyed this one. It is such an interesting mix of stories and characters that all somehow seem to fit together--like you could find some connecting line if you looked hard enough. It got me excited about reading short stories again.
I'm usually not a fan of short stories, but I have to admit I enjoyed this book a lot. I rated it only 4 stars because most of the stories left me with a feeling of having (needing!!) to know more- how the subjects dealt with their traumatic events, what they went on to do next, how their lives turned out, etc. (especially in the case of the last story in this book!), but I feel that way with a lot of the books I've read.
Subtlety is Kingsolver's strength, and she does it especially well in short stories. I didn't care for all the stories in this collection, though all were enjoyable. It particularly appealed to me because Kingsolver chose to concentrate on people in small towns, and she must have lived in one herself, because her detailed nuances of personalities and relationships were completely accurate. My favorites were the title story, Islands on the Moon, and Why I am a Danger to the Public.
I love pretty much everything Kingsolver does, and this book of short stories is no exception. It was put together at an early point in her career, so it's not as hard-hitting as her later stuff, but it's still solid. I read it years ago, and I just re-engaged with it. This time around, I was able to see a lot of the connective themes that become more explicit in her later work. Great stuff.
The more Kingsolver I read, the more I appreciate her words and feel inspired to put my own down on paper. This collection is obviously some of her earlier work, as a few pieces end rather abruptly and inconclusively. The evolution of her writing is evident, although I still find her non-fiction more compelling, fluid, and mesmerizing than her fictional contributions.
Glad I read this after being disappointed in "Flight Behavior". It reminded me of why I fell in love with Barbara Kingsolver's writing. Very powerful short stories. It amazes me how she can create such rich characters that you care so much about in just a few pages. Many of her "gems of insight and wisdom" in these stories.
This is some of my favorite writing by Kingsolver so far. To be honest, I cam real close to rating this book a five. The stories just hit me as some of the most honest writing I've seen of hers, good writing too. I'm glad I picked this one up.
I really, really enjoy Barbara Kingsolvers novels, however this collection of short stories was just ok. There were a few that kept my interest, but mostly I just wanted to get to the end of the book so I could add it to my challenge by the end of the year.
Like all of Kingsolver's work, this book was lyrically stunning. The voice in each of her short stories, like her novels, is unique and fresh. "Homeland", "Rose-Johnny", "Covered Bridges" and "Why I am a Danger to the Public" were my favorite stories.
