https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6515834-forgotten-god
This is one of those books that changes you forever.
He gives to the point that he draws criticism from others who say, "you've given enough, shouldn't you be thinking about yourself now?
Don't you think you should have save up for an emergency?" I love his answer: What part about children being kidnapped and then raped repeatedly every single day of their life is NOT an emergency?
Why did Christ say it was better that he die so that the Holy Spirit could come?
You simply must read it.
And don't just read it, allow the truths Mr Chan exposes transform you.
Again, I'm sorry." It takes five chapters to get to any material that is mildly connected to a believer living his life in neglect of the Holy Spirit, and even then the chapter is so basic it makes me wonder if I am have attended the only 3 churches in the world that preach and teach from the Bible.
And then the book is over, questioning again, "Do you have the courage to live like you believe in the Holy Spirit?
Each chapter ends with a story of a different friend of Chan’s who has responded to the Spirit in a radical way, and like so much Chan writes about and preaches on, he is always holding up his own life and his church to the light and considering what dramatic changes he personally needs to make.
Would you believe that my encounter was real?And yet, how many Christians say that God Himself has come inside of them and has given them the supernatural ability to kill sin, pray, witness, worship, etc, but there is hardly a noticeable different between them and the world around them?Ouch.
All of those are gifts that God enables us to do by the Spirit and they are also promises.
This book has made me cry out more desperately for the Holy Spirit to help me in my Christian life, resting in Christ’s finished work and promises.However, I was very disappointed that Chan did not develop this more.
Back in my early education days I took a class on the Holy Spirit and have always been convinced that we often neglect this aspect of God. I worship in a denomination that seems to have many of its roots grounded in reactionism.
We are not all we were made to be when everything in our lives and churches can be explained apart from the work and presence of the Spirit of God." pg 18.and"So much of what we see today is anything but unstoppable.
This title fits nicely into a category I would call “Vernacular Theology” because, while it isn’t up to the level of academic or even advanced lay-level theological writing, it isn’t exactly mere “Christian Living” either.I appreciated Francis Chan’s effort to challenge Christians toward more thorough and faithful consideration and reliance upon the Holy Spirit.
The Holy Spirit— and our theological reflection on His presence and work in our lives— is probably one of the more woefully neglected topics in the broader evangelical tradition (apart from our Pentecostal and Charismatic brethren, at least), and certainly among Reformed or Calvinist folk.There were times when I wasn’t 100% with Chan in his particular points, like when I felt he was being provocative for the sake of it or even throwing down a gauntlet of “if you disagree then maybe you aren’t a Christian” (though never in those words).
In Forgotten God Chan invites his reader to take a deeper look into one's understanding of the Holy Spirit, the seemingly "forgotten" part of the Trinity.
It appears a more apt description may be "ignored" or "quenched", since it is acknowledged that the reader is aware of the Him (the pronoun preferred by Chan over the commonly used "it"), but tends to "quench" (1 Thess.
It wasn't an especially deep discussion or study of the Holy Spirit, but I am still glad to have read it.I think Chan had two main points that I take away from this book:1) If we are truly living by the Holy Spirit and not in our own will and self-control, our lives will look different than that of the neighbor at the store.
It wasn't anything that completely blew my mind; I know I should live it more often, and it was a good reminder.
One quote that stuck out at me, after knowing many family and friends who are struggling to find churches that are truly welcoming and God-honoring: " 'You see, in the gangs we weren't just nice to each other once a week—we were family.' ...
It saddened me to think that a gang could paint a better picture of commitment, loyalty, and family than the local church body." Can you imagine if we really took to heart that idea that fellow believers are our brothers and sisters in Christ?
Of the nonfiction books written in this century (so far), this is the most helpful, edifying one I've ever read.Through simple, vulnerable introspection, Chan steers the reader away from doctrinal speculation about what the Holy Spirit may or may not be, and instead focuses on what the Bible clearly states about the Holy Spirit.
This book is a wall-shattering plea for us to allow what we know about God's spirit to affect our daily thoughts, plans, and prayers.
A significant portion of this (small) book is also geared toward missions/social justice work, and the difference between doing it by/for ourselves and doing it by/for our God.
He calls the Holy Spirit such because he affirms that although we say we know and walk with Him, our lives testify otherwise: "The light of the American church is flickering and nearly extinguished, having largely sold out to the kingdoms and values of this world." "When was the last time you were saddened because your sin pained the Holy Spirit?" "Has anyone ever been amazed by your peace?
Have you ever prayed that God would so fill you with the Spirit that people would know that the change could only be empowered by the Spirit?" So this is not a book on doctrine or strategies.
In it, Chan urged us toward lives that were obsessed with God & His Kingdom.
Forgotten God: Reversing our tragic neglect of the Holy Spirit, along with Chan's Crazy Love, are nearly part of my Bible!
He teaches truth, and he teaches it well.
He takes Biblical evidence and applies it to 21st Century living.
He motivates the reader to change their life, by the power of Christ, Father, Holy Spirit.
This is not some "happy clappy" rendition of Acts, or a stark, boring exegesis on how unattainable the power of the Spirit is.
It challenges the Western Church's apathy, it liberates those stuck under the bondage of a quenched Spirit.
Francis Chan speaks the truth in love.
It didn't leave me with a rousing sense of spirituality.
It didn't leave me with any emotion, really.
If anything, I was just left wanting.I guess the book has been helpful and motivational for some.
But I wanted actual theology and deep insight, and while this book has some good ideas, it felt disappointing overall.
It's definitely better than Crazy Love: Overwhelmed by a Relentless God though, which left me with an abundance of negative emotion.
No more Francis Chan for me.Most likely a result of my friend hyping up the book, before lending it to me.
The book (with an intriguing title) doesn't focus on the depth of pneumatology that some might expect, rather, it serves as a challenge to daily submit to the leading of the Holy Spirit.
There are some great quotes, some convicting thoughts, and a few good ideas to help the reader understand more of the Holy Spirit's activity beyond Acts 2.
But it is a good read, it is a quick read, and it is definitely a convicting read.
The main crux of the book is that for us to forget about the Spirit is a huge problem in our churches today, because Jesus often pointed to the necessity of the coming Holy Spirit.
It is a book that pulls no punches in talking about the Church's "tragic neglect of the Holy Spirit," but it does so with much grace.
A reader may find himself challenged and greatly convicted, but there is nothing here to make one feel condemned, which is as it should be.Chan presents a very balanced view on a very controversial subject in the Church, and he does so with a pastoral style rather than with a more scholarly approach.
Forgotten God:Reversing the tragic neglect of the Holy Spirit is Francis Chan's second book after Crazy Love (review here).
Most Christians look pretty much the same as most non-Christians except on Sunday mornings and that he, rightly, argues isn't quite right.In Crazy Love the diagnosis of the problem is that essentially Christians aren't really understanding or being obedient to the things Jesus said.
In Forgotten God it's like receiving a second consultation from the same doctor who says, 'Basically the problem is the same but try looking it at this way.'So Chan delves into the lack of difference by wondering whether we've neglected the Holy Spirit and in doing so clearly knows he's wandering into dangerous territory.
It's been a while since I read some classics on the topic Keep in Step with the Spirit: Finding Fullness in Our Walk with God and Baptism and Fullness: The Work of the Holy Spirit Today.The strength of this book is that Francis Chan writes from his own personal convictions and experiences.
For such a difficult subject, Francis Chan retains his speaking style of bouncing between different topics and including engaging asides rather than lay out his thinking in a clearly ordered manner.
He seems to make assumptions that the reader is probably suspicious of charismatic churches, and that perhaps the reader's motivation for reading the book is that we want the Spirit for personal selfish gain, like Simon the magician in Acts 8 who wished to pay money to obtain the Spirit.Chan makes a few helpful points.
However, "if the Holy Spirit is in you, as a believer, then when you sin you are not listening to the Spirit's leading," (pages 129-130).I was tempted to give this book only two stars, but overall, there are still quite a few good points in this book for me to consider the book to be "helpful" as a guide for Christian living.
He gives several challenging examples of people who have allowed the Holy Spirit to change them and love others through them in an extraordinary way.
By living a life of obedience to God by the power of the Holy Spirit and allowing Him to mold us, people will see that there is no way we could have done these things on our own…and God will get the recognition and glory!
However, we must live in such a way that allows for those opportunities to come about…to be bold and full of faith, trusting God to do the tough things that are impossible for us to accomplish on our own.
This is not a theology study, instead it is a challenge by Chan to see what Jesus said His purpose in giving us the Holy Spirit, then putting into practice what it means to walk by the spirit.I was constantly forced to look at how I pull back from the Spirit's direction in my life and grasp the impact that has.I led this in a church class of about 30 people using the video, with the workbook as a resource.The video's are just honest conversation from Chan about what it means to be led by the Spirit and the ways that has challenged him to reevaluate his discipleship.
This was an Amazon freebie.The focus of this book is to allow the Holy Spirit more access into your life.
A recent post I read suggested that a good way to read more books and to get more out of reading is to know when to cut your losses in a given book and stop reading it.
This is not my nature but I am resolved to do this starting with this book!I did not give this book 1 star because theologically it is correct.
At most this is a 3-star book.
I've come from a background that for fear of being too charismatic has down-played the importance of the Holy Spirit in the life of the believer.
As Chan works through Scripture texts, he forcefully points out the work of the Holy Spirit in redemption, sanctification, and preservation--all key components of the gospel power at work in our lives.
I was struck with the simple and straight forward way his book reminds just how important the Holy Spirit is in the life of a believer.
Living in this way demonstrates that we have essentially "Forgotten God," that is, God the Holy Spirit.
Well worth my time, but I had mixed feelings about some of the content.
6) Remember that the cultivation of a relationship -- whether with God or others -- is not done by wishing or waiting for the other party, but only by an investment of time and intention to it.
Instead, this book delves into the Word of God, and Chan lets the Scripture do most of the talking.
Yes, he interprets and remarks upon his thoughts and feelings, he also lets his readers know that he acknowledges the fact that he does not know everything, and that this is as much of a challenge for him as it is for anyone else.
In this book, Chan reminds us of the importance and the power of the Holy Spirit, both to the church and to our own relationships with Christ.
Chan delves into Scripture about the Holy Spirit and embarks on a journey of remembering, acknowledging, and living in the power of the Spirit.
It's a book about the Holy Spirit, sure, and Chan is clearly disturbed by the degree to which the Holy Spirit is ignored or misunderstood, but I felt like he never really got anywhere.
The opening chapter convinced me that churches tend toward one extreme or the other and that both approaches are wrong (though this was something I had already been struck by), but I wasn't really sure about the purpose of the chapters that followed.
I did appreciate his willingness to challenge both the Pentecostal and more staid evangelical churches, and I don't think he said anything that was actually wrong.
I just kept thinking he would get somewhere and never felt like he did.
A few times Chan worries me with phrases like "experiencing more of the Holy Spirit," or "having more of the Spirit." He also seems to make the Spirit's leading somewhat mystical.
Strange evangelical phrases like these are thrown around and never defined.Chan does have a couple of solid chapters on the work of the Holy Spirit in the life of the believer.
Also, the biography at the end of each chapter give practical examples of people who follow the Spirit's leading.With this being said, it would be a good book for a young Christian's or teenager's book study as long were a person with solid pneumatology leading the discussion.
The first 1/2 of the book is fantastic. Chan has a way of digging into truth and unpacking it without amazing turns of speech or pointed vocabulary. He is relentless. He presents great challenges. And this book is well worth a read.
We don't take the Holy Spirit serious enough. He's a full being who lives in us! Not beside or around but in! Think about that.
Yet this does not mean that the Holy Spirit of God is actively working and moving in the lives of the people who are coming.
It certainly does not mean that people walk out the doors moved to worship and in awe of God. People are more likely to describe the quality of the music or the appeal of the sermon than the One who is the reason people gather for “church” in the first place.
(p.53)Jesus refers to the Holy Spirit as the “Helper” or “Comforter.” Let me ask you a simple question: Why would we need to experience the Comforter if our lives are already comfortable?
Excellent, challenging book.
Pastor Chan takes a detailed look at the Holy Spirit and how we, as Christians tend to ignore this third person of the Trinity.
He says, "I spent years asking God to be part of whatever I was doing.
When I read the book of Acts, I see people privileged to play a part in what God was doing." At the end of each chapter, he has a short bio of different Christians who are depending (or have depended) on the Spirit.
It's a short book and easy to read.
