https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12447.You_Can_t_Go_Home_Again
Written in 1934, nothing has changed. People still fall in love, get hurt, have dreams, kill, lie and cheat. There was a total lack of respect for the earth then as now. Overbuilding and greed were rampant then, no worse and not better than now. Greed drives need.Still, a good story of hope, perseverance and victory of the spirit.
But under the pavements trembling like a pulse, under the buildings trembling like a cry, under the waste of time, under the hoof of the beast above the broken bones of cities, there will be something growing like a flower, something bursting from the earth again, forever deathless, faithful, coming into life again like April."-Thomas Wolfe, "You Can't Go Home Again", p.40 of the Signet Edition=================================I didn't get much further than that in the book.
:)SEPTEMBER 25, 2018:I watched the movie, "Genius" (2016)IMDb: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt1703957/..."A chronicle of Max Perkins's time as the book editor at Scribner, where he oversaw works by Thomas Wolfe, Ernest Hemingway, F.
This section is full of essays on the city, on the state of man, on the distinction between creators and academics: “creators absorb and extract the truth and convert it to art, while intellectuals absorb nothing.” There is also an extended character sketch of his trusted editor Fox - not sure how it fits into the novel, but editors were important to Webber (and to Wolfe), to help shape his amorphous barrage of content into coherent structures for the benefit of readers.Book 5 takes us to England where George with the help of his landlady, Mrs. Purvis, absorbs the social life of that nation.
Every time I think about it, I can't help saying to myself You Can't Go Home, but maybe you can?
If you suddenly for the first time, in effect, see all these people you might have spent your life with and didn't, is that like going home?
For the first time in so many years I’ve started taking buses again and reverting to childhood, sitting at the back, like a young love is going to magically appear next to me and…I’ve started going to the shopping centre local to my mother again and just stepping into the place makes me want to cry.
Every time I started reading it again I was always glad, though, because I really liked his writing.
Thomas Wolfe really had a talent for getting to the heart of situations, thoughts and feelings that are difficult to express in such a way that a reader knows exactly where the writer is coming from.
Usually with books this long, I keep thinking, "Let it be over already!" I thought that while reading this book, too, but at least I thoroughly enjoyed where Thomas Wolfe took me and how he got me there.
I was hooked from the first page and really savored the whole 700+ page experience.
Wolfe is spookily insightful, cutting right to the quick of human nature, and our many pretentions.
Wolfe describes so many different types of people and you recognize every one.
The book has a very timeless quality to it.
From overspeculation in the real estate market to the media's bizarre fixation with celebrities...
this book could have been written yesterday, and yet it was written in the 1930's.
Wolfe's powers of observation, incredible ear for dialogue and dialect and every kind of verbal nuance are astounding.
All I require from a text, when you really get down to it, is insight in theme or plot--be it wholly innovative, or merely a universal problem shed in "new" light--or fabulous writing, be it orginative, quirky, or just solid.
Of course, my favorite texts (*Ulysses*, *V.*, *Bleak House*, to echo the authors above) contain a delightful combination of them all.Wolfe does not, in my opinion, possess much of any of these traits, thus, entailing that *YCGHA* is, ultimately, long, boring, and inconsequential, in my opinion.
So I have that association.Anyway, I started reading this book while recovering and just now finished...that was around May 15th I guess, and its now September 4rd, so that's roughly 110 days...and the book is 704 pages so that's almost 7 pages a day.
Hm.My point is, this is a long, long book but I've never read so feverishly, wanting to have more of the...landscape be revealed to me.
The language feels complete, you feel like he paints everything there is...Proustian in that sense, but also Emersonian...Maybe its too soon to say any more, but this book comes highly recommended!
Faulkner called Wolfe the best of their generation, "the finest failure." I admire most the scope of Wolfe's writing.
It seems at times that he was trying to capture all of America in a single novel, and if he didn't quite make it he comes very, very close.
And he was, at his heart, hopeful: Wolfe believed in the possibility of religious transcendence and he believed in America, and the possibilities it had.
Those twin optimisms, to me, lie at the heart of the very best moments of this novel.
I'd forgotten about this till it came up in the quiz.My senior year of high school, I had some sort of comp lit class, and we had to do a major paper on one book, and I did it on this.And my paper was all about the theme of interlocking webs of some sort.
I really liked it, enjoyed the complexity, and felt a certain resonance because going home was exactly what I planned to do after high school- leaving the East Coast to come back home to the UofM.
Wolfe's life was so deeply and richly lived in a relatively short period and so lyrically written that his autobiography reads as vibrantly as fiction.
Writers will especially value this work and it pays to read to the end as Wolfe's last novel is particularly revealing in its power and optimism and lyricism at its close: "What befalls man is a tragic lot.
Mankind was fashioned for eternity." In the end Wolfe finds a comfortable home upon a promontory point in America's literary landscape.
The novel depicts events at least three levels: George Webber's struggle to write novels and gain acceptance by other novelists and publishers; America's transformation from the go-go 20's to economic ruin and depression in the 1930's; and how Webber seeks salvation by sailing to England and Germany in the mid 1930's, a few years before the start of World War II.Wolfe has an unsurpassed talent to “theatrically” present unforgivable scenes.
Later as Webber takes the train out of New York , the book transforms the reader to the hometown denizens on the train as Webber temporarily returns home.
I love the way books come to me sometimes - this one as a yellowed, tattered edition sold at a market stall for €1. I've wanted to read it for ages. The text is very dense but Wolfe's eye is keen, especially when it comes to observations about people, though I feel like his judgements can be a bit arrogant and unkind here and there. Still, I feel like this book merits recommended reading status, especially for a girl like me, who mislaid her ruby slippers somewhere along the road, sometime back.
Unless the vast majority of readers just really like lots of adjectives, my guess is that most people rate this book highly because it's a "classic" and giving it a high score means that you "get it" because you're the sort of person who "understands classics." I make no claims to that lofty throne, and I don't really think particularly highly of literary critics, so I feel comfortable declaring that I didn't enjoy this book.It was my understanding that YCGHA is about a writer whose bestselling book draws from his own life and thus attracts the ire of his old friends who felt their lives were exposed.
The same goes for other stories in the book - the detailed description of a Manhattan party, the life and family of Fox Edwards, etc - which go into great detail abotu characters that disappear only a few pages later and never reappear.
The book has some beautiful moments, but to find them you have to wade through endless description of minutiae.
He is eloquent and has a flawless eye, but in my view the description detracts from the story, which develops at an excruciating pace.
If you are more oriented towards beautiful language, or enjoy stories that seem to be told as though you are looking through the lens of a camera, then you will love this book.
But if you are looking for a novel that moves forward with pace and tension, whose characters you will be invested in before page 295, you might reconsider reading this one.
The title is wonderful.  The prose is long and seems dated. This is a very slow read but does capture a period of turmoil in the 20th century. I read it for a book group years ago, and often cursed the member who suggested it. My recollection was that we had to skip a month and most members of the group didn't finish it.
Here, Wolfe gives a vivid portrayal of train travel in its glory days, so good I dog-eared the page.Throughout the book, we follow the life of George Webber, a writer who happens to find a very sympathetic, humanitarian man for a publisher whose confidence in Webber's ability leads to the success of his first novel.
In the noise and confusion of modernity, after exploding as it did in the boom 1920's, he struggles to find meaning as he takes in the views of the many he meets.With a variety of characters, Wolfe takes us from the high society of New York City to the depths of destitution of the street people of Brooklyn.
I'm sure Perkins did this as a labor of love, because there is no doubt that Thomas Wolfe was a great poetic prose writer, and it makes complete sense that Kerouac was influenced by him, so much so, "The Town and the City," his first novel, was almost a Thomas Wolfe imitation.
Wolfe's great obsession in "You Can't Go Home Again," is that 'George Weber' writes a best seller about his hometown, and of course the people he writes about are thinly veiled portraits of real people, that instantly recognize themselves when they read the novel, and hate how they are portrayed, because Weber is a poet at heart and can't help telling the truth about people, or so he sees it.
This is a book you have to commit to reading, but it is also a book that presents the great, great talent of Thomas Wolfe. He became my literary hero with this book, published after he left us in 1938. I call him the poet novelist. His words are poetry placed within the story of his life. If you are a writer, or reader interested in world-class writing talent, I strongly recommend you read this book.
A writer who can describe emotions, feelings, people and places in a way that the reader would live through every sentence written in his books.
And now, because you have known madness and despair, and because you will grow desperate again before you come to evening, we who have stormed the ramparts of the furious earth and been hurled back, we who have been maddened by the unknowable and bitter mystery of love, we who have hungered after fame and savoured all of life, the tumult, pain, and frenzy, and now sit quietly by our windows watching all that henceforth never more shall touch us--we call upon you to take heart, for we can swear to you that these things pass.” And the reader would live through this person’s life in just one paragraph.
The uni-directional quality struck me as pretty cool, by the end, (and which of course ties in to the title and its multiple meanings, including the fact of constant social change.) We also meet many characters and they don't necessarily make a repeat appearance.
(as did at least one other reviewer) the shaving/morning ritual scene of one of the masters of the universe was fantastic, not only in its detail and flourish, but with its irony, foreshadowing, humor & buffoonery, and perhaps pity, compassion and a dollop of respect.I'd recommend this to most of my GR connections.
I enjoyed this, but it is a pretty long, hard read.
I had no idea what to expect here, having only read a few of his short stories.
I think he is great.
He is likely the first author to paint clearly an idea (which I understood) of disillusionment.
You have to put him in a to enjoy or appreciate the difference between him and a TRULY hopeless, depressing author.
This guy is only sobering, not depressing.
Vonnegut's subject matter is sobering, but his approach makes you laugh hard.
Wolfe is sobering, and he makes you question your parameters.
I am re-reading both Wolfe masterpieces, since the first time I read them the words were wasted on my youth.
Wolfe had courage, I’ll give him that—courage to attempt showing every ounce of his personal experience in the pure, naked, and sometimes brutal light of truth.
Extraordinary experiences, especially those well written, will be read by most any literate person they are presented to, but when an author plunges into the world of the mundane, the realistic and dry fabric of every-day reality, he looses audience.
From a lesser writer, I know I would have.I actually bought this book some years ago and it had just been sitting on my bookshelf (this happens to me often because I often buy books faster than II can finish reading the ones I've purchased.) It wasn't until my wife and I were in Asheville, NC (Thomas Wolfe's hometown) that something caused me to remember it.
So we went and paid our respects, and I thought "Oh hey, I have a book by him that I never read." So, when we returned to Oregon, I picked up the weighty tome and though it took me a while (hey, its over 700 pages, give me a break) it was definitely worth it.
At 700 plus pages, it's a hefty volume, so if you appreciate a story told in exacting detail, you're in for a great treat.
I noticed a pattern while reading the various reviews by their respective authors: if it didn't mesh with their favorite genres and writing styles, they simply didn't connect with this story.
Instead of appreciating the work for it's innate value, and keeping it in the context of the author's personal experience with those times, in which he lived, they simply fall back on their cold, dry, pseudo-intellectual analysis.
There are few books I have ever read that have been more beautifully written than You Can't Go Home Again.
The characters are full and richly drawn.
The plot, when it moves, is an interesting one, and Wolfe's insight is profound and inspirational.
It being an autobiographical novel, I found it very interesting that the main character talks about how he refused to edit or cut down any of HIS book and that it, therefore, took many years and publishers before it got accepted.
I was never more convinced before I read that page about the fact that this is an autobiographical novel.
I think every successful writer of fiction is allowed one exegesis of self-pity, and this is Wolfe's.
Fortunately, since Wolfe is capable of unplugging his sizable head from his wide ass, he can craft a pretty compelling portrait of the Jazz Age deteriorating into the Great Depression here in the US, and he evokes pre-WWII Europe quite well.
Considering that Wolfe died in 1938, his sojourn in Nazi Germany is shockingly poignant.
The meaty travelogue, however, is sandwiched between thick slices of self-absorption, but as tales of writerly martyrdom go, Wolfe's isn't much worse than anyone else's.
(Faint praise, I know.)
I LOVED the writing! But it was kind of hard to get through because it was so long. The writing was excellent!
I have a problem that I have to finish books that I start and this one was slow for me.I think God made me pick it back up and finish it at the right time.
It is so packed with so much foresight that it may be one of the best books ever written.Some quotes:'"You sink it is so bad here no?-ze vay sings are wiz ze Party and zese stupid people?
I think the true fulfillment of our spirit, of our people, of our mighty and immortal land, is yet to come.
On and on Wolfe writes about every person his main character meets in his life, every place he visits, every conversation he exchanges with another, and to what point?
An editor, a good one, could have easily cut this book in half, but again to what point?
The main character in the book is an author and he proposes to write as truly as he can, which is a noble goal.
Wolfe seems undecided about where this book was going and just seems to have decided to write down, in detail, everything that happens to his character.
