https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/161849.Chocky
Well, I can tell you what I expected: brutal conflicts, life-threatening confrontations, mobilisation of violent resistance to keep humanity safe from the evil extraterrestrial power that wants to colonise us in order to dominate our lives and exploit our weaknesses.
Why would I expect a highly intelligent, curious extraterrestrial explorer to be as evil and stupid as humans have proven to be, over and over again?
Why would I feel threatened by the unknown, even before I see any signs of danger?The answer to my question to myself is that human beings are conditioned to distrust anything that is different from themselves.
“Reality is relative... When people live their lives by their beliefs objective reality is almost irrelevant.”This is more psy-fi, than the sci-fi that one associates with Wyndham.He takes the central ideas of Midwich Cuckoos, published 11 years earlier and filmed twice as Village of the Damned (see my review  HERE ), but makes it more realistic. Here, there’s just one unsettling cuckoo child, and he’s unquestionably human - but he is adopted. As in Midwich, when his inexplicable talents become
When people live their lives by their beliefs objective reality is almost irrelevant.”This is more psy-fi, than the sci-fi that one associates with Wyndham.He takes the central ideas of Midwich Cuckoos, published 11 years earlier and filmed twice as Village of the Damned (see my review 
other?•	Is a benign or neutral presence less plausible and thus more unsettling than a selfish coloniser?•	Does difference need to be fixed?David remembers Sherlock Holmes:“When you have eliminated the impossible, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth.”Bang Up to DateThis was a surprisingly topical read - and not just in ways that Wyndham might have anticipated.ConsentChocky is there as a “working arrangement”, a sort of possession by consent.
Although Matt is a little old for that sort of thing, his father is not overly anxious, until he begins to listen carefully to his son’s internal, though vocalized, conversations with this fellow called “Chocky.” Chocky has opinions very different from Matthew’s, and often poses extraordinary questions which Mr. Gore doubts his son would ever have thought out for himself.
This is not an eventful novel, but the dialogue between Matt and Chocky, and the analysis David Gore applies to it as he searches for evidence of Chocky’s distinct existence, his separate reality within Matt’s mind, the many signs of his alien abilities, limitations, and possible goals, makes for an absorbing and entertaining reading experience.
I find it refreshing to dive back into the anthropology of past decades to a time when all female characters were, naturally, full of feeling and emotions, and all male characters were rational and intellectual and responsible for protecting the women and children in their lives.
Part of what I love about scifi is to recognize how time-bound this genre is even though authors are trying to be forward thinking, and trying to break through the constraints of their era.
And I enjoyed my time spent, as always, with John Wyndham and his imagination.
If you like your sci fi, old school and gentle with some cracking questions like "Daddy , why is it a cow stops ?" I'm not going into the full context here but it's an incredible question when I think about it on a par with "What came first , the chicken or the egg?
" Just going to chuck in what is for me the quote of the book.This spoken by the child's mother assuming that Chocky is an " imaginary friend "" Reality is relative .
Just as God is to people who believe in Him. When people live their lives by their beliefs objective reality is almost irrelevant " .Thank goodness I still have more Wyndhams to read.
Oh, this was SUCH a good read. Twelve-year-old Matthew seems to have a new friend, but not of the corporeal sort. The sort who teaches him binary counting, how to paint through new eyes, how to swim (even when he can’t), and encourages him to ask the most unusual questions of his parents and teachers. Not the sort of questions you’d expect from a 12-year-old. Chocky provides an interesting perspective on childhood, imaginary friends, and the nature of intelligence. Well worth the few hours it takes to read. Recommended.
Wyndham could be one of the most underrated writers of British literature. While reading The Sphere (M. Crichton) earlier this month I thought of Chocky. (view spoiler)[Jerry and Chocky were quiet similar (hide spoiler)]This book was so well written, there wasn't a single unnecessary word or sentence and the overall idea was delivered fantastically. This kid, Matthew speaking weirdly, is he talking himself, an invisible friend, or something else entirely?Thinking of it still gives me goosebumps!
I really like John Wyndham's books so was surprised I'd never read this.
Anyway, Chocky, a really enjoyable listen and a typical Wyndham book, so if you enjoy The Kraken Wakes, Day of the Triffids etc, then this will be right up your street.
It is, as usual well written and a great story, and what I love is the Englishness of it all, and the fact that a lot of Wyndham's books (like Wells) are set where I grew up, so the settings are so familiar to me, which makes me enjoy them more.
I read a lot of John Wyndham in my Sci Fi youth.
I wonder what I would have made of it back then.Reading this in later life I can but say that it is Sci Fi for sure but hardly disaster/dystopian writing I recall.
To tell why would give the story away so for those interested in 50’/60’s sci fi I say read it.
So middle upper class with lots of mummies and daddies.
I have no memory of this in the other three Wyndham books I read but then I read them an eternity ago.
Following the publication of 1960's "Trouble With Lichen," fans of the hugely popular English sci-fi writer John Wyndham would have to wait a good solid eight years for his next novel to be released.
(Hint: Wyndham WAS a science fiction writer!) During the book's finale, in which Chocky speaks to David, through Matthew's mouth, in the lad’s darkened bedroom--a highly atmospheric culmination--the being gives the nervous father, and we readers, some wonderful words of wisdom regarding life here on Earth (a la Klaatu in the finale of 1951's "The Day the Earth Stood Still:).
For one thing, during that final revelation scene just mentioned, Chocky tells Mr. Gore that he/she/it is having trouble communicating while using Matthew's limited 12-year-old vocabulary.
Chocky is an interesting character. The story is well constructed with young Matthew. I read this book as a teenager and the comments it makes rings true 50 years on. A good read with lots of thought provoking questions.
For some reason I thought this was a horror but it wasn't anything like that all all. It was pretty good though, a quick read which had more to it than meets the eye. It's sci-fi but not sci-fi enough to turn anyone off who wouldn't normally be into that.  Also this was written in the sixties, and apart from one time where shillings were mentioned, this doesn't feel dated. Another hit from Wyndham, will have to read more of his books!
This presence - Chocky - causes Matthew to ask difficult questions and say startling things.I'll stop the blurb there, as I really think the less you know about this story and the genre it's in, the better your reading experience will be.John Wyndham is a British author whose work I've been meaning to read for ages, as his works are considered classics.
I listened to the audiobook, which is wonderfully narrated by Daniel Weyman.
This delightful and charming novella takes a little over four hours to listen to, and I'd recommend it for both teen and adult readers.
This was my first ever taste of sci-fi (shocking isn't it?) and I have to say that I really enjoyed this little book.
It wasn't quite long enough for me to feel fully invested in but I really enjoyed the tale of Matthew, a seemingly ordinary 11 year old boy, who happens to hang out with an alien.
It really is just a book about a boy and his family and how they deal with this extra family member, but I have to say that I didn't see what happened at the end coming.
Chocky is the story of a young boy whose imaginary friend turns out to be an alien consciousness.While I liked Chocky a lot, it didn't go down the way I thought it would. You'd think the alien consciousness would be malicious, especially coming from John Wyndham. It's actually benevolent.
In this novel Wyndham goes against type; yes, the background is entirely realistic, yes, an unexpected science-fictional element affects the life of the narrator, but no, the entire world is not under threat and no, alien invaders are not attempting conquest.
In fact the aliens are benign and the narrator's family suffers at the hands of humans - journalists and others.This is neither the best nor the worst of Wyndham's novels; it's more readable than most but has little incident and I found Matthew's mother a trial; she's stupid and unpleasant.
Öncelikle temposu hiç düşmeyen, yalın, esprili bir anlatımı var kitabın.
Bir solukta okunabileceğini ama anlattıklarının hemen sindirilmeyeceğini düşünüyorum.
John Wyndham'ın okuduğum ilk kitabı, şans eseri kitapçıda dolaşırken konusu ilgimi çektiği için aldım.
1946 senesinden sonra adını 'mantıklı fantezi' koyduğu bir yazım tarzıyla birkaç kitap yazmış.
Sanırım bazı eserlerinin filmi de çekilmiş.
Kitabın konusuna gelirsek; anlatıcının evlatlık oğlu olan Matthew 11 yaşlarındayken zihninde sesler duymaya ve bu seslerle de bir güzel sohbet etmeye başlıyor.
Seslerin eşliğinde yaşadığı sorgulama ve Matthew'in kişisel gelişimini izliyoruz kitapta.
Bir süre sonra olay kontrolden çıkıyor tabii ki.
Bilimkurgu sevenlere de sevmeyenlere de öneririm çünkü ilginç ve güzel bir kitap.
I honestly can’t say much about this without repeating what others have said. My good friend Bill Kerwin has done an excellent review of this brilliant, parodical novella that has succinctly wrapped up everything I can say about it. Go read this book. It’s an absolute treasure and one of the best examples science fiction and domestic comedy has to offer.
Seeing as I was looking for filler fiction while I work on university assignments I am delighted I found it.
When his adopted parent become concerned as to the irregularities of Mathews interests and in the way he talks they seek help.
As it turns out Chocky is real.
Okay, this might sound like a, been there, done that kind of novel but Chocky delves into parental worries about psychological issues.
In addition, the character of Chocky looks at Earth from an outsiders point of view and what he/she finds is interesting and worth thinking about.
1. I don't like science fiction. 2. I am really picky about audio books. I find I give up on more books that I listen to. 3. This was FANTASTIC! Of course, a good production makes all the difference. Produced by the BBC with character actors, "Chocky" is the story of young Matthew and his "imaginary" friend. But is he/she really imaginary? Listen or read to find out! And at about an hour, this will take no time at all!
Chocky presents a very original and intriguing story, not just in the phenomenon of Chocky himself, but also in the dedication and concern of a father.
A fun read. Recommended for Sci-Fi starters.
Truly, one of the great great works of science fiction. You can't touch it, kids: not much else can combine such originality of thought with such an easy, populist charm.
A really enjoyable and simple story of a young lad dealing with an 'invisible friend' that has invaded his mind but has an extraordinary amount of questions...that don't quite fit that of an 11 year old boy.All is dealt with in a calm and quiet manner which is so refreshing in the current world of hysteria and media hype.I'm really enjoying John Wyndham's books - all are dealt with in this calm and quiet manner but encompass scientific ideas beyond his time.
Read in one sitting.
]His, his, his writing hits me so hardMakes me say "Ermahgerd!"Thank you for blessing himWith a mind to write and to write neat.It feels good, when you sit on downAnd open up a book by the man from Dorridge town.And he's known as suchAnd his is a feat, uh, you can't touch.This ain't no tome, boy(You can't touch this)Yeah, that's how he's writing and you know(You can't touch this)Look through the narrator's eyes, man(You can't touch this)Yo, let's bust some funky physics(You can't touch this)Fresh new plot, advanceYou gotta like that, now you gonna more than glanceSo move, and give this a readA fly sci-fi story that plants a thoughtful seed.While you're scrolling, hold onTry a bit of Wyndham 'cause he's got it going on.Like that?
I read John Wyndham’s short science fiction novel, Chocky, in a US edition trade-sized paperback.
John Wyndham is a British writer, probably best known probably for his The Day of the Triffids, which I have read.
Besides his novels, Wyndham wrote short stories for US science fiction magazines, some of which I have also read.Chocky is Wyndham’s last novel, written just one year before his death.
Although you can also find the emotionally-bonded English family setting in some of his stories, this is unlike his well-known novels that address threats to humanity.
I remember reading John Wyndham's science fiction as a kid.
Chocky was first published in 1968, after I'd pretty much stopped reading science fiction, but it's come to me now in this handsome New York Review of Books edition with an "Afterword" by Margaret Atwood.
Margaret and I enjoyed it.
Chocky is of a different character than Wyndham's novels of the 1950s, both in the threat to the earth and in the nature of the invader.
Aliens are no longer drawn to earth for its natural resources but for the intelligence of its life.
Matthew's friend Chocky, however, hangs around....
Chocky' had so much potential though for me it lacked.
Okay so in short, 12yr old Mathew is a bit old to have an imaginary friend.
After witnessing his odd and educated one sided conversations, his parents and physiatrists soon realise Mathews imaginary friend is an entity not from this world and is communicating with Mathew through his mind.I thought this concept was a brilliantly original idea.
After reading goodreads book description I was sold, I must read this book now!
Chocky, for me, was like the movie E.T the extra terrestrial only the alien was a voice in the kids head.
Wyndham. What a visionary. And this is a wonderful story, in part mystery, in part psychological thriller, in part family story, in part sci-fi, and in all ways, utterly hopeful, well, almost utterly.And did I mention timely? Given the threat we pose to the planet, this book remains pertinent.
