https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/565512.Love_Conquers_All
My favorite is essay XXVI: “When Not in Rome, Why Do As the Romans Did?” Benchley outlines the obvious difficulties in the use of Roman numerals.
How about the use of the “V” when “U” should be used?
If the idea is to deceive, and to make it easier for the stone cutter, a pleasing effect could be got from the inscription, “Erected in 1897 by the Society of Arts and Grafts”, by making it read: “EDEATEW IZ MXIXLXIXLXXII LY THE XNLIEZY OF AEXA ZNL ELAFTX.” There you have letters thatg are all adapted to stone-cutting, they look well together, and they are, in toto, as intelligible as most inscriptions.” You will love Robert Benchley’s humor!
A collection of essays and columns printed in 1922 covering everything from Baseball to opera plots to (then) current political situations. Sure some of it is now dated, but some is still quite funny. When it isn't quite funny anymore, you can still admire the quality of the writing.
So far, as usual, I'm reading a collection of essays that makes me feel as though I'm living in the wrong era. Humor so dry it blisters, sometimes now completely anachronistic, still relatable for me. At times it's less funny due to obvious effort, but not often enough to spoil the buffet.
I read this book while reading Emily Posts etiquette in Society.
Everything that Benchley wrote comically about was exactly the subject of Post's disdain.
It took me a while to figure out why this book is called "Love Conquers All".
There wasn't really any stories of Love, nor of it conquering anything.
My only guess is that the answer to all of these stories of social ungraces, personal faults, and seeming rudeness is that "Love Conquers All".
If not, none of these stories would seem funny.
They would be sad and hateful.
It's a quick read.
Really funny stuff.
This is a copious potpourri of unrelated subjects.
Robert Benchley published Love Conquers All in 1922 and opens his world of humor (proving that some things never change).
Few novels cause me to laugh out loud but this is one of them.
The fact that this was published ninety years ago one would think that an additional exegesis would be necessary but this is not the case, weather the subject is sports, marriage, children or pets, it applies to those things even today.
Love Conquers All is a “must read” book for everyone of all ages.
The essays in Benchley's first book, from 1922, already mark him as a very funny stylist and observer of life. (The title, like ones to follow, gives no hint of its contents.) "Love Conquers All" has the added bonus of a long section of his literary pieces, many of them very loose reviews of books nobody else would review, one of them a complaint that he can't find any bookcases for sale without glass fronts.
I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book. Most of it had me smiling, and some of it had me laughing out loud. There are also 2 or 3 essays that are serious and still pertinent. I got it on Amazon as a free, public domain download.
This is full of short essays, the first dozen or so are great, then they get dull. I had to give up on it.
i want to read it! it sounds interesting.
Classic. Witty. Clever. Charming. Vintage Benchley.
Lots of lesser-seen Benchley in this one - including a section of literary criticism.
Great Benchley humor. With the winners of the Benchley Writing Contest. Fun for everyone but the lady who dusted....
Benchley slays. That is all.
Robert Benchley was great and comedy writers today are doing well to equal him.
So funny! I really enjoyed these short articles written by Robert Benchley in 1922. Really cute, and some are very apropos for today!
Benchley may seem outdated at first, but by the end of this book of his columns, I was a fan. The man was a keen observer of humanity and incredibly incisive.
