https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/472778.The_Heritage_of_Hastur
Then I got to The Heritage of Hastur, and it has given me an "a-ha moment." In previous works, Darkover as a world was much more compelling than any of its inhabitants, whose personalities melted into sameness.
Yet, this fictional planet, with its Darkovan and Terran populace in constant friction, surrounded by the planet's native inhabitants who are at turns beautiful and deadly -- what rich material to mine!With The Heritage of Hastur, Bradley has produced a tale with believably motivated -- and believable -- characters.
The Heritage of Hastur gives the reader so much more; and yes, it can stand alone without one's having read other Darkover books.
Ma non so recensire questo libro...quindi seguirà un commento pietoso, con relativa supplica ad ignorarlo e a iniziare la serie comunque.L'erede di Hastur mi ha fatto innamorare dei personaggi, mi ha lasciata basita dopo aver visto un decimo del world-building e infine mi è passato sopra il cuore diverse volte per assicurarsi di averlo distrutto ben bene.
Non ho trovato la trama troppo complessa da seguire, mentre il sistema politico mi ha intrigato moltissimo, tanto che sono ancor più curiosa di vedere come le varie famiglie si intrecciano.
Non so proprio che dire.
Ho amato i personaggi e non vedo l'ora di scoprire altro di Darkover.
Regis and Danilo meet the party, led by Kennard and Dyan, on the road, and head back with them toward Alderan.Marjorie convinces Kadarin to let Lew recover from the drugs, and together they decide that Sharra must be stopped, even if it takes their deaths - and the deaths of everyone in the Sharra circle - to close the dimensional gateway that fuels it.
Anybody who's seen Kyril Ardais (Dyan's father) in earlier (as pertains to Darkovan chronology) books will recognize that he probably wouldn't have made a very good stab at fatherhood even BEFORE he went mad.
It's established in short stories that the Terrans made (re)contact with the long-isolated Darkover at the time when the twins Leonie and Lorill Hastur were still youngsters (probably not older than 20, but it's necessary to make allowances for the different length of Darkovan and Terran years).
Danvan's son Rafael was killed at a very young age: but he already had a nearly adult daughter (Javanne) by the time Regis was born.
Set in the last timeline of the Darkover series, what is essentially the 'present day' at Bradley conceives it, the novel tells the tale of young Regis Hastur (who becomes one of the two or three most important characters in the whole series), who has come to Thendara at the request his grandfather, the Regent and ruler of Darkover.
In the past, he has been friends with Regis, but the gap between them--Lew is a commanding officer, Regis a cadet, and at the same time, Regis is a potential monarch, and, in theory, all would be "under" him in society's pecking order.While in the Guards, Regis befriends Danilo Syrtis, a character who will be very recognizable to Darkover fans and who actually appears in more novels than does Regis.
There are mixed feelings about Bradley in the sf community: most people agree that "Mists of Avalon" is a good book, but opinions are pretty divided about the rest of her work.
Reading any Darkover book gives you the feeling of looking in on a real world, with a concrete sense of history, geography, climate, and culture.
I think that Darkover achieved this level of complexity and detail because it is, in a sense, a collectively built world.
Fan fic, hated by writers though it may be, is and always has been an intrinsic part of sf nerd culture.
Bradley took the unlikely step of embracing her fan fic and declaring it canonical.
Their new environment led to some families developing specific psychic abilities, and becoming leaders of the government.The Heritage of Hastur relates the intertwined histories of Regis Hastur, the future ruler of Darkover, in his days as a youth training in the guards, and Lew Alton, son of a powerful ruling family, who is bitter about having a Terran mother.
They come into contact with a faction that holds a wild matrix from the Ages of Chaos, a faceted gemstone that enhances psychic ability, and in this case, houses a dangerous power of its own.This is not a book for people who have issues with same-sex relationships.
Cosa posso dire sulla Bradley che non sia già stato detto? Riprendo in mano un suo lavoro, dopo tanti anni, e lo trovo ancora stupefacente. Le sue opere avrebbero ancora tanto da insegnare a molti autori di fantascienza e fantasy contemporanei, in cui ultimamente mi sembra regni molta superficialità e approssimazione.
I inherited a whole stack of Darkover books and have found the right order to read them in. No wonder I didn't get The Bloody Sun... Enjoyed this one very much, although the male-female relationships still give me the creeps. The amount of slender women fainting is just ridiculous in this day and age. But the Darkover universe is growing on me.
Really, I don't blame my teenage self for liking them so much (though I had to wonder if they really were the right books for me at the time - if the fact that I liked them so much meant that I found a mirror in the pages, or if it's what I read at the time that informed my view of the world).This is not a bad book.
Unbeknownst to Regis, head instructor Dyan Ardais is giving Danilo a hard time.Lew Alton is being pushed by his aging father Kennard to have more responsibility.
By this time there has been fighting between Lew and Kennard, so when he gets to Aldaran he is kind of amenable to their plans.There is an ebb and flow of emotions and relationships.
I don't want to turn any one off by saying that it's like the plot of a soap opera with a few added in scifi elements and the Darkover aura, because it was fun to read and had a great flow.
Al mismo tiempo, lucha por mantener sus tradiciones ligadas a la magia y la telepatía.En La herencia de los Hastur se nos dibuja ese conflicto latente entre los terranos y darkovianos, una brega que los siglos no han logrado hacer desaparecer; es interesante cómo la historia soterrada nos habla del colonialismo y cómo los autóctonos viven bajo esa extraña situación de dominio amistoso.
Marion Zimmer Bradley explora también las relaciones humanas, la falta de comprensión que muchas veces nos empuja a equivocarnos sin remedio y se adentra en la influencia e importancia de las tradiciones en la cultura popular y la propia historia.Gracias a una narrativa ágil y dinámica, las más de quinientas páginas se hacen cortas y dejan con ganas de más.
I picked this one first--I no longer remember the reasons why--and it was good enough then that I went back and read almost all of the other Darkover books I could find, even the ones like The World Wreckers that I found almost completely incoherent.
From there, he gets tied tighter and tighter into the web of Comyn society that he originally expected to abandon until he willingly takes the oath of service to the Comyn Council.Lew's path, the other narrative voice in the book, is perpendicular to Regis's.
This was a re-read for the Popsugar Challenge (book you loved as a child) and while I wouldn't necessarily say that I fell as deeply in love with the novel as before (I used to dream of moving to Darkover), it still is among my favorite books of all times (and certainly among the Darkover novels). Maybe next year, I'll get around to re-reading more of them ...
When an over-confident group of psi-talented young people gets hold of a powerful matrix, they think they can control it and remake the cultures of Darkover to suit themselves. They don’t realize to whom they are tools, and to what extent.Read 3 times
Simplement brutal!! La millor mostra, de lluny, de la sèrie Darkover i de l'habilitat de Zimmer Bradley. Per alguna cosa és l'autora que el va fer gaudir de la ciència ficció
My first Darkover book. It's currently available as an audio book through Brilliance Audio, and it is very well done!
I don't think I would have told anyone to start here.Even so, something about the book kept me reading.
I think I read this more for the characters than the plot.
The plot was interesting enough, I guess, but I think it would have resonated more if I'd read some of the other novels first.
I'm not sure if this is a first novel, but if it is then I hope the writing got better.I liked the characters enough that I may continue the series, but it's not very high on my priority list.
Regis compromises with his grandfather, and promises that he will serve three years in the City Guard, before making his decision to leave Darkover for unknown and glorious Terran adventure.Now being hazed by other cadets for being Comyn and under the command of his boyhood friend, his laran shows itself.
Lew, (Kennard’s half-Terran son and the only one of his two sons recognized by Comyn), will travel to Castle Aldaran to confront Lord Kermiac about this violation.(view spoiler)[Regis becomes alienated by his new best friend, the cadet Danilo, who is also a catalyst telepath who opened Regis’ laran.
Ross—"Destined for the Trunk." Still, to have actually finished something is a matter of note.) Clearly, then, it made an impression; and having read a fair amount of other Darkover material since then I thought it high time to revisit the novel and remember why it made an impression.Two reasons: One, it relates a milestone event in the post-Chaos history of Darkover, the Sharra Rebellion.
You heard it here first...) You also know that Regis Hastur has become a pivotal character in this era of the Darkover tales.
As a teenager, I'm sure that this novel would have bored me to tears, but as an adult, I find that MZB has provided us a character-centric story with deep gravitas.The story follows two characters: Regis (in third person), and Lew (in first person).
Regis wants to go offworld, while Lew isn't sure that he wants to assume more power.By all rights, this story shouldn't work nearly as well as it does.
That Marion takes her own world and subverts it into a coming of age character drama, and makes it work at that level, at an almost purely literary level, deserves respect.I find that truly great novels leave me at a loss for words.
Yet I do consider myself a fan of MZB's but that rests almost entire on her Darkover books, of which she wrote 18 in her lifetime, although there were some further (some posthumous) collaborations.
They were written out of sequence too, and I don't actually recommend you read them chronologically.
The first chronologically, for instance, Darkover Landfall, is more fun if you read other in the series first, then this origins novel to see oh, so that's where that came from!
I just reread this book for the first time in 20 or 30 years.
It certainly seemed to have more of a Young Adult tone to it than the last time I read it...but, then again, I was more of a YA myself back then.
Nonetheless, the characters and their struggles soon carried me away again just as they had the first time around.
If you get wrapped up in the emotional lives of fictional characters, if you thrill to experience agonizing decisions and their sometimes disastrous consequences, then you won't go wrong by picking up this book.
Year 2145.========================================This book is too long and unpleasant to read!Notes on The Heritage of Hastur.
These notes were taken during reading long before the internet existed.
The Comyn appear morally decadent causing Lew and Regis to reject them.
Lew goes to stop the trading but becomes involved with trying to use the Shara matrix.
Lew and Regis "rejoin" the Comyn.
The Terrans are so afraid of the compact they agree to enforce the weapons ban.---- charactersKennard (88-90?) (old, stooped with age.)Desidra Allaird (very old 84?)Lew Alton (20-25) son of KennardRegis Hastur (16-17!
too young)Mikhail (Danilo) Hastur (3-4!)Danilo Syrtis (15+!)The next book would be World Wreckers.
I've read six Darkover novels in the last half-year, and noticed a tendency for the characters having to do everything NOW or " the world ends." I always found the Compact that Darkover followed about using weapons to be an intriguing concept, and there is abundant dialogue regarding that issue.
This novel provides the backgrounds of Regis Hastur and Lew Alton.
It covers quite a bit of political conflict between the Terran culture and Darkover culture, not to mention arguments between the Comyn and Arilinn, and challenges in dealing with the power of Sharra's matrix.
The psychological violence level is kicked up a bit.
This novel strikes me as the first novel in which I recognize both the maturity of Bradley as an author and the full character of the series through which I first came to know her, the Darkover books.
While the style is still a little stilted and amateurish in places (I'm sure she was working from an old manuscript, perhaps written shortly after _The Sword of Aldones_, for which this book serves as prequel), much of the work is fully realized and capable of moving the reader with wonder, sympathy, and a deep desire to know the characters and this place in the universe.
The best of the Darkover series, which really vary in quality.
There is some reference to Regis' sexuality and his relationship with his bodyguard Danilo (the Darkovan term is paxman).
The second strand of the novel is told in the first person by Lew Alton, a half Terran half Darkovan aristocrat.
Regis and Lew play a vital part in banishing Sharra, an extremely powerful weapon which could bring the Terran Empire to its knees.Later novels in the series have paid more attention to issues of sexuality, to the detriment of the plot,but in "Heritage of Hastur" the balance is just right.
[These notes were made in 1985:].
A double-plotted Darkover novel, dealing with the pre-Sword of Aldones Lew in the first-person narrative, and the young Regis in the alternating third-person chapters.
Not quite as disjointed as it sounds, for altho' Lew's troubles with the sword and his first love, Marjorie, have little to do with Regis, Regis' problems (coming to terms with his love for Danilo, and simultaneously with his laran gift) have their root in an early encounter with Lew. I found the Regis chapters infinitely more compelling, partly, I think, because they are less cluttered with the physics and metaphysics of "matrix technology" and deal instead with recognizable emotion - loyalty, love, guilt, shame, reconciliation.
I wavered in the extreme on this book.
There were moments when I considered putting it down and not picking it back up again.
The character's were unbelievably compelling.
So what was the problem?
Well, I know it's been advised to start with this book.
The problem was, I had no concept of the psi talents.
I didn't know or thus fully appreciate luran, tower training, matrix, or any of that.
It made it hard to understand why things were important to the characters.
I didn't understand the matrices at all.
I liked the writing.
I liked the lessons and growth in the characters.
4.75 starsI don't know if it's because I read other Darkover books as a kid and thus had conditioning that pulled me in more deeply, but it seems like it's been a very, very long time since I have been so utterly engrossed in a new book.
It took a little while for me to get into it, but once I did, it felt almost more real than the world I was physically interacting with.
Even when I had to set it down, no matter what I was doing I'd find my thoughts drifting to it, wondering what Regis and Lew and Dani were doing.
