https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/825337.All_Sail_Set
A great book to read aloud to your children. We learned a lot as we read through this gem. We learned about sailing life, and the days gone by. An interesting read.
Eventually he becomes an apprentice seaman on the first voyage of the clipper ship Flying Cloud which held the speed record from NYC to San Francisco from 1854-1989.
To say this is a nautical adventure would be an understatement.
It's a rousing adventure, but it somehow failed to wholly capture me (the terminology was just overwhelming) - I think it would make a brilliant film though.
Interestingly this voyage is a key trigger in one of the earlier Newberys, Glory of the Seas (Honor Book, 1934).
I read this for my 2018 Reading Challenge and my Newbery Challenge (Honor Book, 1936).
This was an enjoyable book that is full of adventure. But the reason for a lower rating is the overwhelming usage of technical sailing terminology that prevented me from fully enjoying the plot. Considering this is intended as a children’s novel I would think the author could have made the story more accessible. Enjoy it for what it is, a good tale of high seas adventure.
Good book. I enjoyed it especially the part where the whale escapes! Makes me want to buy a sailboat even more.
Well written, but not much different from every other nautical book out there.
A boy gets a job with a shipbuilder and takes a trip on the maiden voyage of the Flying Cloud.Meh. Vintage children's stories about sailing are not my favorite.
It is quite dark by comparison to the rest of the story and I didn't think it was appropriate for a work of juvenile fiction.The genre of sea stories, factual and fictional, is a great one and ALL SAIL SET fits nicely on the shelf with many other titles celebrating the era of sailing ships.
It certainly isn't for every young reader but for anyone with an interest in maritime history, it's a good book with superb illustrations in the original edition.
After the sudden death of his father, the fourteen-year-old must find work to support his mother, and turns to Donald McKay, a friend of his father and designer of clipper ships.
Fate brings Enoch and the most famous clipper ever built, the Flying Cloud, together from the time she is just a model on McKay's desk.
Can the crew--and the ship--endure and survive the hardships?Enoch's journey is filled with new adventures, danger, and ancient seafaring stories, all in only 171 pages, making it a nice introduction to epics of the sea for the younger readers.
Ironically (considering the passage where an old hand tells his fellow sailors and apprentices that it's bad luck having women on board), this record-breaking 1851 maiden voyage of the 'Flying Cloud' from New York to San Francisco was navigated by none other than Captain Creesy's wife.
Still, this is an old fictional tale worth reading for the call and charm of well-told sailing stories that will certainly catch your fancy, even though it's directed at young people.
Follow it on with a reading of "Flying Cloud" by David Shaw at the adult level, or "Dare the Wind" by Tracey Fern at the children's level, to fill in the curiosity you'll then have for a historically accurate accounting of the mighty accomplishment.
There's an attempted mutiny, they watch a whaler get busted up, the go through some storms, etc.I find though that the author isn't that well-educated.
It seems he did his research, but in the appendix at the back of the book he says the Common Bottlenose Dolphin is more accurately called a 'Porpoise,' which is incorrect, and is a large type of fish, which is even more incorrect.
He also says that a Portuguese Man of War is a type of fish.
This isn't just him saying what the sailors think - it's in the appendix to the book.
Maybe a Newbery Honor book written for the young, but I believe that those much older like myself would really appreciate it more.
To start it is a true story.
It is a remembrance of a time long passed in the story teller's life.
The voice of the characters was wonderfully told.
Maybe a simple story, but filled with all kinds of happenings.
I felt like I was right there watching it all happen around me, and I too have survived rounding the Cape of Good Horn.
To me this should have been an Award book and not an Honor book.
This Book is about the Flying Cloud; the planning, the building and the first sailing of the ship through the eyes of Enoch Thatcher. He spins his tale from learning from the builder of the ship to actually sailing the boat from New York to the Cape of Good Horn, to San Francisco. The pictures are realistic and drawings of the ship--the spread of sails are shown. The reader learns the different terminology of the boat and parts of the ship.This book is for anyone that has a love for the sea and for sailing ships.
Fascinating story that takes place during the heyday of the clipper ships, 1843-1869, sailing ships known for their speed, narrow hull, and large total sail area. The Flying Cloud became famous for it's record-breaking trip from New York City to San Fransisco via Cape Horn in 1851. It made the trip in 89 days 8 hours, the shortest time on record at that time.
I had a fascination with clipper ships in early high school... and here is a book honoring the best one of them all, the Flying Cloud. This book follows the story of Enoch who becomes a man as he helps in the construction and then the sailing of the Flying Cloud around the Horn. Several good male role models. I wish I had found it sooner for all my boys.
We read this book as part of Gabriella's 5th grade curriculum, neither of us enjoyed it. It was linear and not exciting at all, it read like a boring diary of someone who you just couldn't care about. It illustrated what men who had their life at sea was like in the 1800's but it just wasn't captivating enough. We had a hard time finishing this.
Very interesting, lots of details about the running of a sailing ship. Just not really my sort of story. No girls except of the mother in the first couple of chapters who has a very minor role; a teenage boy coming of age story.Captains Courageous by Kipling also has a lot of ship details.
I'm certain that somewhere amongst the many mysterious nautical terms lurked an exciting story. Perhaps if we had a basic understanding of ships, this might have been mildly interesting. But we don't, and it was not. Educational? Yes. Interesting? No.
"A magical book. The romance is irresistible." — Fort Worth Star Telegram
Newbery Honor Book 1936
I got bogged down in all the nautical terms and can't help thinking there was another piece of historical fiction that would have benefited us more.
This book was nothing but confusing. It was written for sailors. Me and my landlubber boy were lost throughout most of the book.
