https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/830985.Family
Though a large family was considered to be a social ideal, the family members are barely able to conceal their resentment for each other, and they clash repeatedly over their wants and hopes for the future.I had mixed feelings about this one.
But his conflation of homosexuality with hypocrisy and decadence (as seen by his unkind portrayal of the 旦, or male actors who play female roles in plays) marks him as a man of his own time, stuck even then in his own contemporary prejudices.The title, 家, in this context, could be translated as 'family', 'household', or also 'home'.
Ba Jin se hacía llamar así en honor de Bakunin y escribió esta perfecta introducción al periodo de la China republicana, justo antes de que el gran imperio se convirtiera en estado comunista.
An interesting introspective look at China a hundred years ago.
The main character (and probably the author) was brimming with revolutionary energy.
I'm not sure how accurate his portrayal represents the general mood of China at the time (Ba Jin's intelligence and the frequency at which I imagine his body fervently vibrated while he wrote this book can't possibly be considered normal), but this story helps get a feel for the revolutionary spirit that led to the events of the next few decades.

At the end of the book, Juehui believes staying in the family is too suffocating, so he leaves Chengdu to go to Shanghai.
I would recommend this book to people that like reading about people's lives and how some people broke out of the old ways of living and into the new culture, or the May Fourth Movement.
It would be an awesome book to read for a history assignment, and how China was developing into the new world and getting away from old traditions.
I LOVED this book in highschool and then it went out of print and I could never find it. I searched used bookstores for years in the early nineties. It came to my mind again this year during our school's book fair and I realized that so much more is available because of the internet and sure enough Barnes and Noble could order me a copy. It's about the Chinese Youth Revolution and the downfall of feudalism basically. It's historical fiction and somewhat autobiographical. I'm reading it again and it's just as good as I remember. Yeah modern technology.
I had to read this for a class. I did not expect it to make me cry like a little girl. It follows the young people in a traditional Chinese family as they struggle to break free of repressive expectations during the chaos of the 20s and 30s. It provided a closer look at the time period we're studying now. It's a powerful and gut-wrenching read.
I probably would have enjoyed this more had I been able to read it in Chinese; the translation was a bit too stilted. Nonetheless, it was a great insight into the social revolution in the 1930s, when more independent-minded youth often found themselves running up against the confining rules and arrangements of their extended families.
I've been looking for this for years - I read it in college and could never find who wrote it. You try googling books with the word "family" in them. I finally hit the right combo (thanks wiki!!).Fantastic book! I recommend it to anyone!
A great look at early Nationalist Period China, circa May Fourth Movement. Incredibly interesting views on gender roles, equality, superstition, traditionalism, etc. One of the great Chinese novels. Must-read for anyone interested in the development of Modern China.
jue-hui is the prototype revolutionary softboy
“I must go my own road, even if it means trampling over dead bodies.”  The early twentieth century was a time of tumultuous change in China as cultural movements, started by students and members of the younger generation, challenged the known authority and basic social and political unit--the family. In Pa Chin’s novel, The Family, he portrays the radical and determined younger generation of the Kao family struggling against the monolithic family structure of the petty bourgeois. The story demon
“I must go my own road, even if it means trampling over dead bodies.”		The early twentieth century was a time of tumultuous change in China as cultural movements, started by students and members of the younger generation, challenged the known authority and basic social and political unit--the family.
The demonstration of young intellectuals and women in the Kao family struggling for liberation from the restraints of the patriarchal family hierarchy represents what is happening throughout the Chinese nation.
The book centers on the personal struggle the young Kao generation has between obeying the old system and creating the new.
En is dat het waard?Familie is een familieroman (wat een verrassing!), met als hoofdpersonen drie broers, waarbij conflicten tussen generaties centraal staan.
Ba Jin stelt zichzelf constant de vraag hoe de relatie tussen traditie en revolutie moet zijn, en dit doet hij door de relatie tussen generaties te beschrijven.
De oudste broer is timide, wil niet breken met zijn familie en schikt zich dus in hun eisen.
Ik snap dat het een familieroman is (en op vele punten in verbinding staat met Droom van de Rode Kamer), maar veel personages zijn moeilijk uit elkaar te houden, zeker omdat er zoveel gelijksoortige liefdesrelaties aan bod komen.
The story follows the Gao family in a Ba Jin semi autobiography. It depicts the struggles between the old and new ways following the NCM.
Too melodramatic and a bit too obvious in some ways. Still a good read.
Whenever I ended a chapter because I had to attend to life needs, all I could think about was picking up the book to find out what happened next.
But it was still an enjoyable read; and, it was interesting to think that you're learning while reading whether you know it or not because of the fictitious set-up.The book switches perspectives a lot, which, at times, can be annoying.
However, when the point of view changes from one character to another in the middle of a chapter - something I would have normally found extremely annoying - actually flowed very nicely and was written very commendably.
Family by Pa Chin is set in China during the early 20th century.
The story follows the Kao family, which lives in a compound with four generations under its roof.
Three brothers in the family, Chueh-hsin, Chueh-hui, and Chueh-min are the focus on the novel.
I felt myself get mad at Chueh-hsin for allowing himself to fall into these horrible and heartbreaking situations.
I felt myself fall in love with Chueh-hui and his determination and ambition.
I’d recommend this novel to anyone who wants to know about the changes in China in the 20th century and what really brought them on.
Es una novela interesante, aunque le falta algo para enganchar...En lo positivo: tiene un estilo muy directo y ágil (esperaba algo más ceremonioso y lento, como otras novelas chinas que he leído) que hace que la novela se lea con fluidez; trata el tema de los cambios sociales en la China del final del imperio y previa al comunismos de una manera intimista, a través de los ojos, vivencias y opiniones de los personajes; es una novela universal, en tanto que trata un tema que pertenece a toda cultura: la familia y las luchas generacionales, el impulso de los jóvenes por cambiar el mundo, y el freno de los mayores, adheridos a las tradiciones.En lo negativo: en realidad no lo tengo muy claro, es más una sensación de ligero aburrimiento y desinterés por lo que les pasa a los personajes, que algún aspecto concreto del libro.
Not a perfect novel, this has too many technical faults, like sentimentality and melodrama.
In spite of these defects, it's still a monumentally important novel, as it demonstrates the Zeitgeist of the May Fourth Movement like no other - the message being that the old, feudal system of life in China (with arranged marriages, footbinding, unquestioning filial piety to one's elders) is finished.
It's a passionate and moving novel, especially towards the end, reminding me of what Cao Xueqin's commentator once called the "blood and tears" of an author.
Certainly, no fiction Ba Jin wrote after the Torrents Trilogy is as good.
This is a classic Chinese novel about tradition versus change and modernity.
The contrasting characters - young, old, male, female, rich, poor, servant, master - give the novel its tension.
Some characters are tragic and are victims of unfair traditional practices; while others forge ahead and make their own path; and others are caught in between.
This book was published in 1931, so it's insightful on (if at times critical of) traditional Chinese culture and practices at the time.
It can be melodramatic in some parts, but overall its a a solid, well written, insightful, entertaining read.
There are several beautiful things about this book.
Sometimes I would go back and read a paragraph just because it was so beautiful.
The other thing I really like about this book is the empathy with which the author writes.
I felt like I really understood many of the characters, and I wanted all of them to succeed, but it's clear that they can't all succeed in the way that they want to without hurting each other to some extent.
The only thing I didn't really like about the book is that the tragedies felt a bit contrived in order to propel the book to its end.
I first read this novel in college (the dates are just a guess) and have subsequently re-read it many times in the course of teaching it in my college courses.
It is an extremely influential novel and beautifully typical of the literature of the 1920s, written in the wake of the May Fourth movement (it was published in 1930, I know, but the world it depicts is the world of Chengdu in the 1920s).
It is highly readable, if somewhat maudlin, and it's in my opinion some distance from the greatest writing of the era.
i could feel, i think, the effect/influence that writers like turgenev had in the of writing this.i thought it was strange that a couple days before reading this i had read things about emma goldstein and peter kropotkin considering the influence they had on the characters in the book (and pa chin).
i remember thinking a lot about this and reading this book made me remember it again.
It melds old Chinese tradition with modern China, and gives you insight into the way Chinese people think and feel, about their own culture and the world at large.
This book uses a few simple metaphors to get it's point across and it's focus especially on the interconnectedness of all the characters and their relationships made me appreciate and understand their culture even more.
I think it's cool that the author was in his 20's when he wrote this book.
It has lots of insights not just into the minds of the people of his own culture, but of human beings in general, the human psyche, and how we interact with one another.
Written from a position of modernity, Pa Chin takes a fairly rigid expression in recognizing the heavy burden of tradition centered on the Chinese family.
He seems to speak from a position of radical change, but that's probably because at the position of this novel there is only the need for change.
In a way, the characters and drama is melodramatic but that may just be to clearly emphasize the need for change.
Read today, in a post-colonial world, this book appears quaint and perhaps difficult to read as some of the tragedies appear needless as the pressures referenced in the book (a family pushing to do certain things, with collective thinking) are less felt today than they might have been when this book was fresh.
A fairly well-written, if decidedly melodramatic novel of the general feudalist shittiness of a China that struggled to modernize, while at the same time being positively steeped in millennia of Confucian tradition.
Our characters are attempting to break free, all while getting caught up in courtly intrigues, dramatic deaths, and what not.
It's all a bit silly to the modern reader, as so much romantic literature is, with their clunky symbolism and operatic plot points, but it was clearly an important novel of the liberal movement in China at the time, and really is a portrait of a cultural and intellectual landscape I really don't know that much about.
One of the top books in my book list!
A truly amazing book!
Beautifully written and covers a lot about the culture of China at that period of time.
Through the story, some of the characters' fate are affected due to China's old traditions.
What makes it pleasing is that readers can see characters, especially the younger ones, are starting to fight back the old traditions.
Currently investigating on the difference between women characters in this book and the women in the Dreams of Red Chambers, and how do the characters reflect Chinese tradition.
I recommend this book, totally amazing...
This novel didn't do much for me. The overall plot is about the forming chasm within a family between modernism and tradition. The three protagonists each represent the different routes of adaptation for young adult men regarding loyalty to family and pursuing their love interests. While the storyline gives a lot of insight to the Chinese society's behavior at the turn of the century, I was irked in more way than one by the main protagonist's development. He was such a flat character. Chueh-hui departs the novel just as stubborn and arrogant as he entered.
A random book that was required for my Chinese lit class that I actually ended up loving and I don't know why. About a family, 3 brothers in particular, and how they each choose to respond to the demands of nationalist china and how their lives eventually turn out because of it. I can't remember the last book before this one that was required for class that I actually finished - the first time I actually got ahead of schedule for a book and was excited for what happened to them next.
Written in the 1930's by prolific writer Pa Chin, this novel is indicative of the struggles that China continues to endure. Set within the home of the affluent Kao family in Cheng-tu, it follows the main character, Chueh-hui through his Westernized (Russianized) thinking which favors anarchism--the complete overthrow of the patriarchal Confucian family system of traditional China. He watches his family fall apart as it seems anyone who adheres to the old ways meets only with tragedy.
