https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1608116.The_Head_of_the_House_of_Coombe
Estupenda novela la de la escritora británica sobre todo porque, más allá de la típica trama victoriana como novela de formación de la protagonista, consiguió mezclarla con la situación histórica (los albores de la primera guerra mundial) dotándole de elementos propios de la novela de espías y policíaca. Espero que Alba se decida a publicar la segunda novela (Robin), continuación de ésta, tengo que reconocer que me he quedado con las ganas de terminar la historia.
She wrote about 30 adult novels and 15 or more children's books, many short stories, and a few plays and some of this work is excellent.The Head of the House of Coombe and its sequel, Robin, which were published in 1922, were the last books Burnett wrote.
They tell the story of a flighty woman, so flighty people called her Feather, and her daughter, Robin.
Feather's husband dies, leaving her with a child she does not want and an enormous load of debt.
When the servants, long unpaid, leave her and the child alone in the house she is frantic.
Beautifully written scenes, subtle in their understanding of the workings of societies and psyches, and truly interesting characters.
Robin is born to a mother, Feather, who has no room in her life for a child.
Donal is Robin's first social contact outside her dreary life.
At six, she is still in the attic with no toys, books, or love.The Head of the House of Coombe follows Robin's life and the twists and turns it takes, until she is a young woman.
Yes, they are written in the old style, but I've never been disappointed in any of the 20 out of 60 of her books that I've read.
You will find the reading much more interesting if you are familiar with late 19th and early 20th century European history as a number of historical events are referred to obliquely and you might miss what she's talking about if you are not.
Burnett does, by 21st century standards, occasionally go a little bit overboard in narrating a child's emotional response, but such things were de rigour in this genre at the time it was written and if you understand that, it's not annoying.It was good enough that I got volume 2 and read that too.
I knew her from The Secret Garden, Little Lord Fauntleroy, and The Little Princess.
Can't count the number of times I've reread The Little Princess.
Coombe was originally a longer book, but her publishers made her cut it into two parts, and this book is Part One, ending with the assassination of the Archduke at Sarajevo.
The main characters are young and in love and have no idea what is coming.
Need to read the sequel, called Robin, to find out what happens and hope for a happy ending.
WWI was pretty rough on the young men who served.
Me ha encantado y he quedado con ganas de leer la segunda parte, Robin. Espero que Alba la publique pronto.
Delightful classic full of twists and turns but with a happy ending.
Muchos lectores solo conocen "El jardín secreto", "La princesita" o "El pequeño Lord", pero lo cierto es que la autora escribió cerca de 30 novelas ahondando en el tema de las clases sociales, la belleza, la buena educación, la inocencia y la crueldad humana.El señor de la casa de Coombe fue publicado en su época como parte de una serie de dos volúmenes, siendo este libro el primero y su continuación titulada "Robin" (que espero que la editorial publique muy pronto) el segundo.La trama del libro narra la misteriosa conducta de Coombe, un señor a la moda, culto y del que se cuentan cosas perversas en un contexto ambiguo, al hacerse cargo de los gastos de una viuda joven, Pluma, que ha quedado endeudada por la falta de previsión de su descocado marido y la despiadada actitud de ésta hacia su pequeña hija, Robin.Robin es el centro de la trama.
Her obvious grief brings her to Lord Coombe's attention, and he begins to interest himself in her life.This is a bit of a "sensation" novel; I loved the parts about the wicked German lusting after Robin's innocence as she struggles to support herself.
There is a sequel ("Robin"), and there is no sense reading one without the other; they were originally one novel, appearing in serial form.
This is a very weird book. Written in 1922 it's part romance, part social commentary and part political commentary. The sequel, Robin was written the same year. I think it's really one book published as two. I'll be reading Robin right away.As a period piece it's really thought provoking. In 1922 this book was number 4 on the bestselling list and number 10 was Babbitt by Sinclair Lewis (who won the Nobel for literature). Unfortunately, my kindle edition was full of OCR errors that really detracted from the reading experience.
When her husband dies unexpectedly, leaving her alone and desolate in London, he ends up taking her under his wing.Feather has a daughter named Robin, of whom she takes little notice.
In fact, Robin doesn't even know Feather is her mother for her first six years, calling her 'The Lady Downstairs'.
The Duchess is the one person who knows the secret of Coombe's determination to watch over Robin and why he is willing to tolerate the activities of her mother.
At the dance, Robin meets Donal again as Coombe and the Duchess learn that an Austrian Archduke has just been assassinated in Serbia.
The story is set in England during the transition from the Victorian Era to the Edwardian Era. So expect lots of talk like, "You won't find anyone like that anymore," and "What is with the women these days wanting to get a job and support themselves?
That's just crazy!" We follow the life of young Robin and her horrible, terrible, abusive childhood all thanks to Grace Gareth-Lawless, the most despicable character ever written.
It's not that Grace is overtly evil so much as she's simply a complete failure as a human being.
There are German spies everywhere and, oh no!, part of their nefarious plans involve innocent Robin.
Read the book, and then read the sequel (which I have no plans on doing).
La verdad es que es un poco cansina tanta perfección y belleza
Robin is the neglected (on the verge of abuse) daughter of a vapid self-absorbed widow who accepts the charity of the Head of the House of Coombe so she doesn't have to give up her lavish entertaining lifestyle.
Then suddenly, deep and serious thoughts about the state of Europe are discussed via the character of Lord Coombe himself.
Then we're back to Robin, whose neglect is noted by Lord Coombe, and remedied by him in the form of a French governess and a low-class but loving nurse.
Then we're back with Robin, who meets the grown-up boy in the garden, and they've always been in love with each other - how twee.
This was the deepest yet of the Frances Hodgson Burnett stories I am reading from Project Gutenberg.
This book had a lot of political background - it takes place in England as the Kaiser is building up Germany to take over the world, and there is some intrigue, mystery, spying, etc., that is part of the plot.
But the main storyline is about a little girl whose father is dead and whose silly, airhead mother doesn't want anything to do with her.
How can such a little girl grow and thrive?
What will she become?I can't wait to read the sequel, "Robin."
This is usually classified with FHB's romances, since it is the prequel to Robin, but it is really less a romance and more a character piece.
The characters are beautifully-crafted, but there is a certain lack of plot -- everything finally starts to happen in the last few pages.
According to an editor's note in the end of my edition, the two books appeared as one in magazine serialization, but so much had been cut out that for the book version, they added it all back in and just made it two books.
Another beautifully written classic portraying a more elegant society but showing a mother who displayed such indifference and cruelty to her daughter as I haven't read previously. It is known that parents in times gone by had little interaction with their children but Feather was just Mean. I have enjoyed reading this author as a an interesting interlude to my young adult fiction and fantasy novels!
Not sure how to rate this book, since there were parts I liked, parts that were over the top (unsurprising given that this was a serial story), and parts that were pretty dull (pre-WWI political talk, but without specific details to help someone like me understand what's going on), but overall the verdict is this: I'm going to read the sequel.
Not perfect, but pretty fun to read. This book is part 1 of a 2 part series, so not all of the issues are resolved at the end, and there are a few digressions in the text, but it's overall a nice book. It's really interesting to see Burnett's childlike writing style combined with heavier themes.
http://abookadayparis.blogspot.fr/201...
Read this book for free through Project Gutenberg: http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/6491....
Dastardly deeds done to innocent girl+ ESP + WW1
Not all that well-written, but surprisingly informative about the period immediately preceding WWI.
