https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9303.Lucy_Sullivan_Is_Getting_Married
I can’t think of any other word to use other than delicious.Before this book, I would have declared myself a hardcore chick-lit fan.
I almost turned it down but at the last-minute snatched it because I needed a book for the train.THANK GOD.From the first page Marian Keyes creates a world and cast of characters that you want to hold and never let go.
What I love about this book is that Marian Keyes attacks both sides equally leaving no stone left unturned.I have read this book three times in the last two weeks.
I hate women like this so so so much.Lucy and her co-workers go to a psychic after work on day and she tells them all one thing and she tells Lucy that she will get married in a year.
Oy. Pretty much, it ends with her finally realizing her pattern with men is because of her dad and she drops them all and realizes she is in love with Daniel, who has since broken up with Karen.
She doesn't say yes or no at the end of the book.God, I hate characters like this.
Sure, I HATED HATED HATED, (did I say hated?) some characters (Karen and Gus), but even they seemed normal, real, people we've all dealt with at one time or another.
She has a job she hates, roommates she loves and hates, coworkers that are one of a kind, boyfriends that are leaches or plain wrong, a best friend who is her rock but dissapears when he has a girlfriend, a mother she can't stand and a father she adores, both of who have secrets as every family does...A long book, but a fast read, entertaining one, for sure!
There is a fine line between making a character lovably neurotic and making them unbearable and impossible to empathize with. This book falls into the latter category.
I’m a chick, and I like lit, but the genre commonly known as ‘chick lit’ – can’t stand it.
You really don’t.Anyway, on to the example of chick lit in question – Marian Keyes’Lucy Sullivan Is Getting Married.
I mean, it’s not like I’m completely heartless, or anything.
(Well, it’s chick lit, so the ending’s a bit of a foregone conclusion, but still...)Anyway, the good.
Why don’t they read books (other than chick lit)?
We just like different things, I suppose.
You like worrying about men and diets; I despise myself when I find myself worrying about these things, and try to find something rather weightier to agonise over.
She treats in the worst possible manner only those who really care for her, at the same time being every body else's doormat.
She gets to take care of her father for few months, and suddenly she sees him as he really is, while during some twenty years of growing up in her family home she never suspected anything, saw anything, heard any rumors or gossips that would make her to think twice?
Not to mention that everybody gets to keep their (paid) jobs without actually doing any work.
Twenty-six years old, she is burdened with a dysfunctional family, a dead-end job, an anal-retentive boss, a medley of demented colleagues, flat mates who totter on the thin line between heaven and hell AND a love-life that’s riddled with enough potholes to make you dizzy.
And then a tarot-reader proclaims that Lucy will be getting married within a year.
When she sees the fortunes of her colleagues coming true in varying degrees, the cynical Lucy is intrigued (and a tad hopeful).
A good splash of sarcasm, ooodles of witty repartee and the ability to transform whiny stop-gaps into pages of quirky dialogue make this book a real winner.
There's a turning point I love in a snooty restaurant where you know there's no going back.I really enjoyed the writing, the apt description of complex emotions (like a certain type of humiliation) or thoughts that go through your head during certain sitations.
Maybe I'm just feeling old fashioned today, but I thought the development of her relationship with the mystery man (no spoilers here!) was beautiful to watch.
And the way he treated her was just so realistically romantic to me (not the typical swooping you off to Paris or something, but giving you a ride, making you dinner, etc).Maybe I'm a hopeless romantic, but I thought this was a good book.
For now, it feels like this novel appears in sepia while all other Keyes books I've read are in technicolor (yes, my description is cliche, but it fits!).After reading, I still feel the same way.
I stopped reading right around when Lucy first met Gus, because I HATED him from the start and I hated the interaction that Lucy had with him.
I was disgusted with Lucy everytime she so easily let Gus back into her life, which also made it difficult to continue reading the story.
I still loathe Gus and all Lucy allows him to put her through.
That said, there were a few things about this book I liked.
However, now that I know Keyes is capable of hilarity, I would have liked it to happen more often, since the book is absurdly long.
I also liked that Lucy was not portrayed as being a totally normal girl-- she's dealt with depression throughout her life.
What I really didn't like was that most of the supporting characters were total stereotypes.
This was such a turn-off for me that, like another reviewer, I was tempted to stop reading after the first few pages.
This book was way too lengthy for my attention span.
The protagonist Lucy Sullivan has too much insecurities about herself, & that became boring after a while....(view spoiler)[ Since it's a chicklit, it was but obvious that Lucy would end up with her "too-close-to-have-a-crush-on" best friend Daniel.
But i hated the fact that their relationship hasn't been explored in the first half & instead i had to bear with Lucy's constant cribbings.
(hide spoiler)]I'm giving this book a miss..
Maybe some other day I might try finishing this book & see if the latter half redeems the book!
Coba simak kutipan berikut ini: Aku tak dapat membayangkan ada hal yang lebih membosankan daripada berkencan dengan pria yang memiliki gaji tetap, pria yang berhati-hati dengan uangnya, pria yang tahu bagaimana cara hidup agar tidak lebih besar pasak daripada tiang.
(view spoiler)[Walaupun kemudian ada penjelasan bahwa perilaku aneh Lucy itu karena ayahnya alkoholik dan sejak kecil dia berusaha menutup mata agar semua terlihat baik-baik saja, jadi dia memilih pria-pria busuk seperti ayahnya agar mendapat kesempatan kedua untuk memperbaiki keadaan.
Ya wajar lah kalau karirnya mentok (satu hal lagi yang menjadi 'kesialan' Lucy)Pokoknya, dia itu kayak nggak berjuang untuk mendapatkan hidup yang lebih baik.
I was in a mood for something different after reading the phenomenal legal thriller Sycamore Row so I picked up this 600 pages long chick-lit from my shelf. I ordinarily don't buy chick-lit books because I'd rather buy mysteries and thrillers, which I absolutely love reading. This book came from a box of some 25 assorted books which my father bought for me from a whole-sale market for just Rs. 2000.  SPOILERS Ahead. Consider yourself warned!! Lucy Sullivan is the worst type of heroine you can re
I ordinarily don't buy chick-lit books because I'd rather buy mysteries and thrillers, which I absolutely love reading.
Lucy Sullivan is the worst type of heroine you can read about and I was absolutely appalled by the behavior of most of these characters.
First reason is that sadly these characters are truly based on real life behavior of people around us.
I was curious to read more about the intolerable behavior of these people.
I was curious to see how Keyes turned Lucy into a heroine worthy of our time.
The title character of this book, Lucy Sullivan, is a 26-year old single Irish woman living in London.
At 400+ pages, the book is more well-developed than you will find in most books of this genre, although there were more moments when the story dragged just a bit.
Some of the supporting characters (eg, the gay friend) and the outcomes (eg, girl gets boy) were a bit familiar, but this did not detract from the fact that the details were both original and entertaining.
I found myself reading almost the entire book one lazy Sunday, becoming so engaged in the story that I couldn't put it down until I had finished.

I remember finishing this book, and staring at the last period on the last page saying to myself, "I WANT TO KEEP READING!" It was refreshingly funny, and although it was over 500 pages, it was such a light and quick read. As soon as I began this book, I said, "I am Lucy Sullivan...."
I loved books in this genre since just like with romance novels, you know that the girl is always going to get the guy in the end and that the villains for the most part will get their comeuppance.
Readers get to hang on for a fun ride looking at Lucy's life and those around her for that full year.I thought that the character of Lucy was aggravating at times.
At the same time it appears that several other people in Lucy's life are moving on with their own love lives.The writing reads like a twenty plus year old with no clue about things.
Just like some of my real life friends, I sometimes wanted to bop her on the head and tell her to get a reality check, but that's one of the great things about this book - Lucy is an honest, real life person with real life flaws (and an addiction to pop psychology and men who treat her badly).
I won't spoil the story for everyone - while the ending is predictable, how she got there is not - but ultimately Lucy faces childhood demons about her father and realizes that she has a pattern to date men who have similar flaws to her father.
Lucy dengan enggan ikut bersama Meredia dkk dan akhirnya Lucy mengunjungi seorang peramal dengan tiga temannya, membahas pernikahan diprediksi di masa depannya.
Ketika peramal untuk teman-temannya menjadi kenyataan, Lucy mulai curiga bahwa dia akan segera menikah.
Well,well…aku amaaaaaaaaaatt tidak menyukai seluruh cerita awal hingga akhir buku ini dan aku berpikir Lucy Sullivan adalah tokoh utama yang paling buruk, menyebalkan, tolol, dunggu, bebal, doyan mabuk2an (NGGAK BANGET!) rasa kasih sayang minim, namun Lucy memiliki rasa humor yang membuatku geli hingga mempertahankan selesai membaca itu.
After two hundred pages, I realized I read Lucy Sullivan at least ten years ago.
It was cute, but I couldn't get myself to reread the entire book again.
At 641 pages, this cute story about a fun woman and her quirky love life was too long.
So, I skipped to the sweet ending, with the guy I realized right away and remembered who would finally win Lucy's heart.
Skipping over 400 pages was a good choice for me; I was probably more satisfied than I would have been to chug through the entire book.
If you haven't read Lucy Sullivan Gets Married, it us cute.
I have read a lot of Marian's books over the course of the last 18 odd years but this story has to be my favourite, not only is an excellent story it also reminds me of a time of my life when I was young and sorta innocent!Lucy Sullivan works in London and her well meaning (interfering) workmates drag her along to meet the revered psychic Mrs Nolan.
I love Marian's style of writing and her books have been a mainstay on my shelf for a long time and for many years to come.
As Lucy is currently single she's cynical, but when the psychic's other predictions come true she begins to take it more seriously.
This really affected my enjoyment of the book as I think love triangles only work when you have reasons to root for both of the competing men/women and can't predict who the main character will choose.
I also found it hard to connect with some of the characters; in particular Lucy and her love interest Gus. The main characters is Marian's books always tend to be quirky, awkward women who are really easy to relate too, but I found Lucy to be too much.
Lucy Sullivan se casa no es ni mucho menos una mala novela, pero en comparación con otros trabajos posteriores (que por suerte o por desgracia son los primeros que he ido leyendo) se nota que la escritora irlandesa aún tenía demasiadas cosas por aprender.
Con su habitual pero poco pulido tono humorístico, mezclando grandes dosis de ingenio, chispa y picardía con algunas escenas de corte más dramático, Marian Keyes nos introduce en la piel de una mujer un tanto insatisfecha con el rumbo que lleva su vida, una chica joven, apasionada y algo falta de ambición, que en compañía de unas amigas acude a una vidente en busca de orientación existencial, buena fortuna y por qué no, unas cuantas risas.
You would really want Marian Keyes to write your way out of it!
I love the way she always finds the humour in all of lives ups and downs - her characters way of looking at things is right up my alley!
I hope the author gets as many laughs from writing her books as I do in reading them!
Some of my favourite bits here are, Lucy Driving, Lucy ditching Chuck, Megan trying to guess Meredia’s real name, Karen’s bitterness and just Lucy’s take on life in general.
I have been looking forward to reading this for ages.
I actually wanted to give this book 4 or 5 stars.
It's almost 700 pages and you spend it thinking are there actually women like this!
The lead character in this Book Lucy Sullivan is unlucky in love.
She dates a guy named Gus who treat her like trash and she puts up with it.
He's a drunk with no money , and she never sees his home in the almost 5 months they date.
I know in the end she finds one, and ends up with the guy "she would least expect" but it was a long drawn out painful process.
Like it seems all of Marian Keyes books, I loved it!
Lucy is given the prediction by a fortune teller that she was gonna get married in the next year or so.
Though in the beginning I was sure I knew who the mystery groom was gonna be, Lucy’s relationship with Gus threw me for a loop (I ended up being correct!).
It has to be one of my favorite books by Keyes now, second only to Anybody Out There?
When you have a book with 740 pages, it's not a very good sign that you can guess the whole story by page 35.
Yes, when I read: "Daniel was my friend and, while he was the closest thing that I had to a steady man in my life, I wouldn't have become emotionally involved with him if the future of the human race depended on it." I could have stopped there and moved on.But I didn't, so I endured 700 more pages of predictable merry-go-round chicklit.
I'll seriously ponder before I pick another one of these books because they're not even very good for a laugh anymore.
Shortly after Lucy and her boyfriend have broken up, Lucy goes with some coworkers to a fortune teller.
Lucy is told she will be getting married within the next year and a half.
When the other girls' fortunes come true, Lucy begins to wonder if hers will, too.
Then, she meets Gus, a really charming and fun guy.
Will Gus be “the one”?
I really enjoyed this.
The first half was good, but it got better in the second half, I thought, as more obstacles came up and Lucy had to deal with family issues, as well as boyfriend and friend issues.
This is pretty good chick lit.
Yes, it is kind of predictable but you enjoy the ride.
Chocolate for the brain.Lucy is a single girl, living in London with her flatmates and visits a psychic who tells her she's getting married.
When her friends' predictions come true, well, Lucy must be getting married.
Enter Gus, who must be one of the most annoying characters in English fiction in my opinion.
Lucy Lavan sounds so good, so she must be marrying Gus, yes?
It's a good holiday or 'my brain's not working' read.
A higher standard of chick lit.
Lucy frustrated me a lot through this book but I'm god I stuck it out because I have to say this is one of the best character developments I have read.
Oh her choice in men!
Gus!
I couldn't stand him from the start and her willingness to just hand over everything and take everything annoyed me to no end.
Oh and her roommate Karen was such a a b****!
It all started to make sense with her father and I'm glad she grew a backbone.
I think this is a book I will enjoy the second time knowing she won't always be so floppy
