https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8822819-girl-with-curious-hair
After giving some time to reflect, my overzealousness has hardly died down and, through some helpful and insightful discussions and rereads of the stories with others (I highly recommend reading Garima's wonderfully comprehensive review!), I have not only been able to pinpoint my feelings on the book, but my appreciation has only continued to grow.
Girl is an excellent introduction into the works of DFW, offering an exciting, page turning look at a wide variety of his chameleon-like styles and an introductory look into themes he would toy with and expand upon for the whole of his stunning career.
Though I’m not sure whether I qualify to judge these stories based upon its content as many themes were alien to me, so the star ratings are largely based upon David’s writing, and of course my humble comprehension/incomprehension of them.Little Expressionless animals – 5 StarsMy Favorite of the lot, a quirky take on TV Game shows (on the surface) or Media industry in general, the very 1st thought that struck me was Confession of a Dangerous Mind and I was more than happy to be familiar with a common factor between the story and the movie, i.e. The Game Show and its various facets.
Stories like ‘Little Expressionless Animals’ and ‘My Appearance’ explore Wallace’s contempt for TV over higher art forms, ‘Lyndon’ and ‘Girl With Curious Hair’ are hilarious satires on American success and wealth, and ‘Luckily the Account Representative Knew CPR’ and ‘Everything is Green’ are shorter examples of the infinite interpretability of his work.These selections demonstrate his flair for aggressive comedy, intensely felt language, experimental forms, and Pynchonesque wordplay.
It reads like the kind of fiction Wallace himself would later lampoon, the dry academic work from campus writers, albeit stamped with more wit, ideas and general impressiveness.
To put it simply, it's everything that the former isn't.4.25 stars Girl With Curious Hair I'd heard about the humor that's often staple of DFW's work, but in every sense of the word, I truly couldn't have prepared myself for his unparalleled sense of humor, which borders on hilarious and absurd.
Like the folks you personally love." This is a complex story about sacrifice, the meaning of right and wrong (it's all relative, isn't it?,) politics and the Vietnam War. Wallace also explores hetero/homosexuality, and it's done in such a way as to be completely unbiased.
"οι μερες περνουν,η θεια και ο θειος μου ειναι αψογα ευγενικοι, αλλα το Μειν γινεται ενα ακομη εδω α
(The following came up in the comment thread of my review of Oblivion: Stories.)The more I think about it the more I would recommend that people new to DFW start with his first short stories collection Girl with Curious Hair.
But for those who are apprehensive about beginning this way (or beginning with Wallace at all for that matter) I say pick up Girl with Curious Hair.
Recently I have been suffering an anxiety that I had in fact not completed his first book of short stories, Girl with Curious Hair.
It is Dave’s early capitulation to the fact of the self-reflective nature of noveling, what he attempts (and fails) to exteriorize as ‘metafiction.’ It is Dave’s carrying out of the strategy announced earlier in “My Appearance.” We all know the story of “Westward” being written in the margins of Barth’s “Lost in the Funhouse” (required reading for DFW-ites), but what is the thing about “written in the margins of .
Namely, each of their first novels and their first short story collections.
The losing team dumped in the river surrounding the peninsula on which the campus is sited, the winners drenched in cheap champagne and beer, and hoisted on shoulders to be paraded around the stadium, carrying the Horse of Triumph, a grotesque equine effigy stabled in the bowels of the Student Union offices during the year and led out for the dubious honour of this annual spectacle.Via the lack of virtue bequeathed by impoverished school grades, a place in an Economics degree, the poor relation to Business, Information Systems, and Accounting, has been secured, as well as one within an equally uninspiring quartet of students whose idea of radical consists of breaking with the time-honoured tradition of smoking marijuana behind the Rowing Club on Friday afternoons and instead lighting up on a Thursday, thereby earning the ire of the Rowing Club coach and a promise to haul us before our Dean.
Difficult, brilliant, jarring, funny, ironically earnest and earnestly ironic with the limpidity of 
enyways=mah peeps sayin i red 2 much da dee eff dub but ah say tat i can neva red 2 much ah him and i can red whatevs u kow?
example mah fav book [effinite gest:] ess dah best i wont red 5th times an i can neva red no buk afta an knot tink a hem, dee eff dub, an how much i luv him fur laiffe all da time u kow?
David Foster Wallace turns the short story upside down and inside out, making the adjectives 'inventive,' 'unique,' and 'original' seem blasé. — T.C. BoyleT.C. Boyle turns the buddy blurb into an art form, making the adjectives 'hyperbolic,' 'obsequious,' and 'pompous ass' seem passé. Furthermore, dude looks like a Q-tip dipped in iodine. — Arthur Graham I don't know what happened, but I'm pretty sure I was supposed to like this way more than I did.While there were definitely some solid stories
David Foster Wallace turns the short story upside down and inside out, making the adjectives 'inventive,' 'unique,' and 'original' seem blasé.
I don't know what happened, but I'm pretty sure I was supposed to like this way more than I did.While there were definitely some solid stories here, and there were enough gems of description and dialogue to keep me reading on for more, large swaths of this book were decidedly underwhelming in my humble estimation.
From what I've read of Infinite Jest, it's clear to see that Wallace got better with age, and here we find the seeds of that burgeoning brilliance sown amidst a great big pile of shit.Maybe it was the title that turned me off.
That love…is a federal highway…putting communities, that move and exist at a great distance, in touch.’‘Two close people can’t love each other, even in a sort of Platonic way?’‘You stand in relations…You contain one another...you are the sky whose presence and meaning have become everyday.Surely love means less?’There is a great breakdown of this dialogue here: DFW WikiWe each hold different positions in this world, built from various factors: historical, social, cultural, economic, etc.
This distance between Johnson and the protesters is, of course, best described by the word hatred.”‘Love’, ‘hatred’, and the transcendence of each, are defined by the distance between positions.John BillyIn a small town in Oklahoma John Billy is telling the story of Chuck Nunn Jr to a police Ranger.
Creo que Goodreads debiera tener la opción de permitirte calificar una o dos veces al año uno o dos libros con más de 5 estrellas.Este sería uno de mis libros con más de 5 estrellas.Cada uno de los relatos es un bombazo.El primero me recordó a un buen heredero literario de Salinger.El segundo es de una tensión brutal.El tercero (que da título al libro) precede magistralmente lo que de alguna manera desarrollará con gran tino Ellis en American Psycho.El cuarto es de lo mejor que he leído en literatura posmoderna con tintes históricos (y vamos que Homes tiene el relato aquel del Reagan con Alzheimer).El quinto lo sentí como el más flojo.El sexto es soberbio con su manejo del tiempo y las narraciones simultáneas.El séptimo, pues, bueno, lo leí entero solo porque había leído que Arturo no lo leyó porque lo odió.
Edit again: So even though I haven't read all of DFW's work yet, I think this book would be a good place to start for someone who has read none.
I remember I was reading "Little Expresionless Animals" the day before DFW died, and I was like "oh my god I can't believe someone this brilliant is alive".
Painfully insightful, hilarious, scary, beautiful, everything.
Edit: David Foster Wallace is dead.
The world is a worse place.This book is short stories so I'm gonna briefly review each of 'em.
I dunno.Little Expressionless Animals was fucking great.
Sad, beautiful, hilarious.
I LOVE DAVID FOSTER WALLACE.
Tiene relatos que parecen una completa burla de Foster Wallace al lector.
La última historia (que en realidad se podría llamar novela corta), Hacia el oeste, el avance del imperio continúa, es de lo mejor que he leído: quebró mi manera de ver el mundo de la Publicidad y el Yo solipsista.
Foster Wallace me expuso la importancia sinecdóquica del mercado publicitario: una muestra del Ser y las Relaciones, de los Miedos y los Deseos para representar la Vida.
Recomiendo absolutamente este libro a quien le guste la manera de escribir del autor.
( Piccoli animali senza espressione è probabilmente diventato IL mio racconto preferito.)Si rincorrono tra le pagine gli stessi strutturatissimi temi: cosa significa essere soli, la sostanziale incomunicabilità tra gli esseri umani, la forza ed allo stesso tempo la falsità del linguaggio, le apparenze del consumismo, ciò che si fa contro ciò che si è.
Foster Wallace è fallibile e finalmente ho letto un racconto che non mi ha entusiasmato, il che mi ha reso doppiamente entusiasta per gli ultimi due splendidi racconti.Che vi devo dire, DFW essere (v.b: da declinare a qualsiasi tempo verbale si creda appropriato; è per negare l'evidenza ed era per ferirmi.
Nonetheless, his death shook me to the core for here was a man who had many things I've spent the last few years of my life desiring like an enthusiastic Bears fan.
This book was a difficult journey, yet every other story was like being in an alternate, hallucinated reality only about 1/10 different than our own.
And of course the title story has such the eerie tone of a drugged, aroused mind grappling with the english language more unsuccessfully and stiltedly such that would only occur in proper/tidy/obsessive to a fault dfw's most endless nightmare of solipsistic perfection.
I will read you some more dfw.
You can't be cool unless you like David Foster Wallace.
Like a password; so the other members of the cognescenti will know you are one of them, one of the cool ones.
And, well, I would certainly like to be cool.
I am sorry to admit that I am not cool.Girl with the Curious Hair is about a douchebag.
These are the words Wallace puts into the protagonist's mind to show what a pompous, racist asshole he is:Keith Jarrett is a Negro who plays the piano.
Here's the problem though: KEITH JARRETT IS NOT AFRICAN-AMERICAN!
This book is very clever because every story is post-something.
Girl with curious Hair- post-Easton Ellis.
And the mother of all the posts, 'Westward the Course of Empire,' is post-Barth (unfortunately John and not Karl.) Yes, all very clever.
The problem with all this is that people who don't know DeLillo, Becket, Easton Ellis, Roth, Barth etc...
Before you go buy this because he's important and dead, ask yourself: am I the kind of person who often reads books and is inspired to write essays about them?
They don't inspire me to write; they inspire me to read.
1) El uso de ciertas técnicas o premisas típicas de la literatura posmoderna, básicamente el hecho de que el propio texto es consciente que sólo es un texto de ficción; 2) El uso de personas reales en una historia de ficción, ya sean presentadores de televisión o presidentes de Estados Unidos, o también escritores posmodernos, aunque se les haya cambiado el nombre, porque está claro que el profesor Ambrose es el escritor posmoderno John Barth (o como mínimo una parodia de él); y 3) el uso de un sarcasmo pasivo-agresivo de lo más sutil marca de la casa, dirigido tanto al mundo de la televisión como la política o la literatura, pero también un sentido del humor grotesco y absurdo.Probablemente mi cuento favorito (tanto esta vez como la anterior) haya sido 'Por suerte, el ejecutivo de cuentas sabía practicar la reanimación cardiopulmonar'.
La niña del pelo raro es una interesante recopilación de los primeros relatos de Foster Wallace publicados en diferentes revistas y periódicos.
Su marido y su agente diseñarán toda una estrategia para que Letterman no la deje en ridículo que hará que nuestra actriz se replantee sus relaciones sentimentales y se enfrente a esa estrategia siendo natural y sin miedo a nada.“Hacia el oeste, el avance del imperio continúa“: Esto más que un cuento es una mininovela y trata sobre como un grupo de extraña gente se dirige a rodar el anuncio de Mcdonalds definitivo, el cual contará con todos los actores y actrices que han aparecido en anteriores anuncios de la compañia.
The first story, Little Expressionless Animals, the start of it… I mean, I normally chose books by reading the first paragraph(as I’m quite an ignorant and not cultured at all specially on foreign fiction, and by foreign I mean non-Spanish).
But anyway, the girl and her brother are told to get out of the car in the middle of a highway, grab the post, see you later.
But then it turns into something more.
An envy-inducing collection, the sort where even failures like the frankly annoying experiment with voice "John Billy" (intended as a Gass tribute, but it comes off more as a Gass parody - DFW would become just as good in his own way at blending erudition with slang as Gass was, but with "John Billy" it all rings false) and the frustratingly preachy tone of "Westward the Course of the Empire Takes Its Way," which is a nice predecessor to Infinite Jest but shows us why we don't need to be metafictional about our metafiction, are at least interesting.
(4.5, but 5 for originality)If I could have anyone in the world I'd like explain what 8 dimensions looks like, David Foster Wallis would have been the man.
A Frank Zappa wordsmith, be prepared to eat the yellow snow.
His stories are like Jackson Pollock drip paintings.
You're either going to say, "Groovy" or you just won't get it.
It's elastic esoteric that stretches like Lululemon lycra but doesn't bust at the seams.
It's algebraic prose with more than one solution.
Prose that's going to leave your tongue sizzling with a word.
Pop rock narrative.
Funhouse folly narratively palatable.
Atonal endings that leave you...
Meglio ascoltare un po’ di musica e poi che bella giornata che è oggi, che carine le montagne in primavera, godiamoci il paesaggio…Nel tempo libero: Finalmente posso leggere un po’…però avrei proprio voglia di un'altra puntata di (serie tv a caso), vabbè leggerò staseraPrima di dormire: Dai, ho mezz’oretta per leggere, ehm, però sono parecchio stanca, meglio mettersi a dormire subitoE non è da me, per niente!Di chi è la colpa?
Wallace è troppo intelligente per me (possibilissimo!) oppure come dice il buon Bukowski "An intellectual says a simple thing in a hard way.
Qua e là ci sono stati dei pezzi di racconti che ho apprezzato ma, e mi dispiace perché Wallace è generalmente considerato un genio, non sono stati sufficienti a farmi apprezzare la raccolta in generale.
I actually really liked most of the stories here, but the ones I didn't like (John Billy, Westward the Course of Empire Takes its Way) were invariably the longer ones, so on a page by page basis I found it a bit whatever.
I wish more of this book was like Here and There or Luckily the Accounts Representative Knew CPR, they felt...human, even when they were being clever.
but even the longer crappier stories had some great passages; Westward...'s last third was gorgeous.
like Ambrose in Westward...
The groundwork for later genius; worth buying for the sexy fun with LBJ.Many of these stories go in differing directions stylistically. You can hear the shortest one set to music here or hear it straight here
In the cases with some other books (including The Pale King, where pretty much the only non-white character is a woman who, due to her complicated history 'back home', gives blowjobs to move up in the corporate world, and I think it was one of his essay collections where he writes about how he lectured a black student in a manner, which from my point of view, was cringe-inducing) I could dismiss them more as isolated incidents but after finishing this collection, I've been prompted to write about it.In the longest story of this collection, Westward the Course of Empire Takes its Way, which spans over a third of the book, I came upon the use of 'Oriental' instead of 'Asian' in referring to people, which is offensive in many contexts these days.
Cerebrale, sempre nella testa di chi legge.
Postmodernism itself eschews and snorts at the idea of the Real, but for Dave it is a very real and haunting place that houses his fathers.
And how many stories must the author tell within the story to get the reader sufficiently lost in his text, not knowing where his fingertips and nerve endings end and where the walls of the funhouse begin?
In fact Reader gets the sense that perhaps Dave was a little too neurotic about this fear of postmodern-induced solipsism.
Which begs the question of this one Reader, for whom is postmodern, modern?
