https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14461.Kitty_and_the_Midnight_Hour
If you are tired of reading shifter books about the alpha who is noble, strong, and kind..
And, maybe, for once, you would like to read the story of the loser of a werewolf pack..Have I ever found the book for you!Kitty sucks.
That's right, our alpha is a bully who beats up women and has the right to have sex with any member of the pack that he wants, even though he has a mate.Hmm, I wonder why I didn't like it?!
After reading this, all I have to say is "Come back, snowflakes!
I found that intensely refreshing.Kitty is the wolf of lowest status in her pack and complete submissive when the story starts.
I didn't care much for the way the pack controlled Kitty's life.
The one thing is hers and makes sense is her radio dj gig that becomes a show about preternatural creatures, and as it grows, helps Kitty to find her sense of self and meaning in life.This story has plenty of action, but it is also a story about a woman coming into herself and dealing with her identity.
But you know that she can handle it, because she is a wolf in control of her own destiny.
Thoughts from before I finished the book:Only 3 chapters in and I am slightly disgusted.
Not to mention that the alpha Carl basically treats Kitty like a whore.
Even if I hadn't read a ton of other were books that strictly adhere to the mating for life idea I would still find this demeaning and sad.
I am going to read the second book myself, and am hoping this will have me enjoy it more.
Truely the beginning of this book just disgusted me with the characters thoughts and ideals.
The ending though totally annoyed me plot wise.
She has no one other than her pack, who she seeks for comfort, until she finds her own with a paranormal themed late-night radio show that takes off across the coast.The radio station stuff was actually riveting - from funny callers, especially when they try to hook her up on dates, to having live attacks and suicides on the air, it's never a boring radio hour.
The personal awakenings with the pack was fresh for this type of book because I hadn't seen abuse like this toward the main character in quite this way before.
It's a quick book that's hard to put down but I hated what happened to a character I liked at the end.
Kitty Norville pleasantly surprised me with it's unique radio talk show segments and intriguing heroine.
Unlike most other heroines in PNR UF series, Kitty is at the bottom of her pack and she's the meek one who needs the protection of others.
Her radio talk show about supernatural beings suddenly takes off, and intrinsically she finds herself wanting to break out on her own and lead the pack.The whole 'pack' mentality was interesting in this one.
It's an interesting journey to follow, especially because she's not the typical kick ass heroine and she starts out from the bottom.The radio segments were fantastic.
How did I miss this series for so many years?ETA: Well, Goodreads certainly disagrees with me.
I found this because various recommendation engines said I'd like it, not because any review of it caught my eye.
I'm thankful I found it that way because I so strongly disagree with so many of this book's haters.
Don't read this book if you require your heroes or heroines to be perfect from the beginning.
Do read this book if you like urban fantasy for its ability to shine a light on the darker aspects of human nature.
Kitty is a werewolf DJ who runs a late-night radio program.
When she starts talking about the possibility that there are "real" vampires, weres, etc., out there, her program suddenly starts to gain listeners and attention, not all of it good.
Her pack leader is unhappy, the head of the local vampire collective forbids her to continue, a hunter has a contract for her life, and someone out there is killing people like a werewolf, drawing bad attention from the law.One of the things I really liked about this book is that Kitty grows as a wolf in the book, from a cowering cub in the opening through the stages of maturation.
Good, quick, fun UF with an uncomfortable abusive element. Didn't really wrap up all loose ends and the ending came and went in a blink but I really enjoyed it.
This was a cool book idea, but the weak protagonist and horrible gender dynamics completely ruin it.
Why, why, why did this female author choose to write hers in a way that justifies the main character's repeated rape?This is not okay.
Take out the werewolf aspect of this book and you are left with a story about a woman being abused and repeatedly raped by a man who is treating other women the same way (oh, and taking half of their earnings).
This is gross and wrong and why the f*** would a female writer choose to create her pack dynamic like this without soundly slapping the concept down?
I listened to the narration of Kitty and the Midnight Hour.
But I was pleasantly surprised with Kitty and I plan to continue on to the next book ...
Kitty is the main character and I liked her well enough.
I was able to put this book down (or rather turn it off since I was listening to it).
A negative for me with Kitty, which likely contributed to my lack of investment in the story, is that not enough time was spent developing Kitty's character.
I would have preferred more character development, hopefully the next books do this a little bit more.
For those of you that are put off by Kitty’s character in this book, rest assured that she really does develop a spine in the later books.Kitty Norville (how ironic is a werewolf named Kitty?) has been a werewolf for about three years.
Kitty’s wolf is eager to please the pack Alpha, a thug named Carl.
The pack politics are not very well developed in this book as they are in other werewolf/shifters series.
While most of Kitty’s pack was a bunch of thugs, TJ stood out and protected Kitty from Carl and the other weres.
Not sure how I feel about this series. It lagged in places but was super interesting in others. I think I will read the next book before I decide fully on it.
If one listens to a book on tape and hates it, but it's something they expected to like, always give the print edition a try.
Here is my review after I tried to read this book for the first time:I listened to the first couple of chapters on cd, and it was so bad I had to stop even though I still had a hundred miles to drive with nothing on the radio.
(You're not a werewolf and you're not in the pack!)Anyway, it looked like Kitty was okay with the ultra-submissive position she was in.
Marguerite Gavin’s narration caused me to bump my original rating up by a star, and my second impression kinda left me scratching my head as to why I was so harsh to begin with.KITTY AND THE MIDNIGHT HOUR still didn’t bowl me over with its mild level of Urban Fantasy badass-ery, although I did find myself enjoying the story and the characters more than expected given my initial assessment.
I enjoyed Gavin’s European accents, although they did seem slightly out of context, but that was in part due to some holes in the secondaries’ backstories which she can’t be held accountable for.KITTY AND THE MIDNIGHT HOUR needed a few years to ferment, at least for this listener.
Kitty is a werewolf who hosts The Midnight Hour, a late night radio program aimed at supernatural creatures. Every night she encounters her share of crazies, most of them are harmless, but one of them is a rogue who has started killing vulnerable women on the streets of Denver. With the police unable to deal with it, it's up to Kitty, with a little help from an assassin sent to kill her, to track down the rogue.This book is a lot of fun. It's probably not going to win any awards but it's great fun and entertaining.
It just felt out of place and awkward - like it was completely separate from Kitty herself, rather than a part of her.I did feel that there was a lot of growth to the main character though, which I appreciated, and that overall I liked this well enough to continue the series - but it was far from perfect.
Completely submissive to, and completely dependent on, her pack and alpha to keep her safe.
(** Kitty didn't see it that way - she thought that was normal pack behavior, and the submissive wolf in her worshiped her Alpha.
This isn't my favorite world building setup with vampires/werewolves, etc., but I did like the radio show aspect. I'll try another book in the series and see if the world grows on me.
(And I don’t like vampires all that much.) This is some kind of fictional monster prejudice of mine, and I’m a little ashamed of it and would welcome a twelve-step program to help me overcome it.
In fact, if one picked up this book and didn’t read the back cover, one wouldn’t even learn Kitty is a werewolf until page 8 or so.
Such is life.Vaughn lampshades Kitty and Cormac’s potential relationship on Kitty’s radio show, and if that kiss is any foreshadowing, then I suppose they develop it further in later books.
Shades of White Wolf!The story is split into several different threads: Kitty's renegotiating her place in the supernatural world (and in her pack), a rogue werewolf who's killing people, and an evangelical preacher who claims he can "cure" the supernatural.
The most entertaining bits were Kitty's on-air advice to lovelorn (and/or seriously delusional) supernaturals and supernatural-wannabes, but this was also too thin a premise by itself to keep me engaged with the series.Not a bad read, certainly, but I'm becoming increasingly judgmental about well-trodden genre novels, and this just didn't have enough Win to overcome my aversion to "hawt vampire-boinking chick" series.
Review to come. **Cliterary Genuis 2016 A to Z book challenge, letter K.
And when his mate (Meg) (more on her later) tries to have Kitty killed and also creates a werewolf to try and have her mate killed, what does he do?
As for Meg, nasty and petty doesn't even begin to describe her, like I mentioned she tried to have Kitty killed and have Carl killed.
There was one, Cormac who I actually liked a fair amount, he was a pretty interesting character and he wasn't a jerk.
The plot on the other hand was pretty good and about the only thing that kept me from giving up on this book entirely.
I about gagged when Kitty cowered and whimpered in front of her alpha and then let him screw her the next morning.
Kitty was an accidental werewolf, who was brought into the pack 5 years ago, and is still acting like a cub-but that's what they want.
But Kitty has to "man-up" so to speak, or I may just stop reading her.
I like Kitty when she's not around other wolves.
She may have accidentally "outed" herself and the werewolf community, but the vampires now owe her one, and she's not giving her paycheck to her alpha any more, so let's see how she develops.
In any case, what I do remember with perfect clarity is that it made me sick!I don't even know what I was doing picking up a book about werewolves - I dislike them as supernatural characters and only love a couple of select series that feature them.
Carl, the pack Alpha, is an absolute ass who uses and abuses Kitty on a daily basis: he takes half her paycheck, he controls her every move (she can't even go out on her own), he keeps her weak and untrained so she remains his "cub".
And if that's not bad enough, Kitty accepts the way Carl and the pack treat her!!
When I read the first book of a long series I'm not looking for perfection - I'm looking to be drawn in.
Kitty and the Midnight Hour does just that.Kick-ass heroines are a time-honored trope in urban fantasy and Kitty is not one of them.
What is life like for the weakest members of a pack?
What is it like to be the protected instead of doing the protecting?
I can't wait to meet them again in book two.Give this a go if you're in the mood for fun urban fantasy that colors outside the lines.
Also, the abuse within this structure (he takes 50% of earnings!) is out of hand and because of the magic of the change he will discipline her and her reaction is to lick his chin.Maybe the book got better, but I couldn't read anymore because of the gross gender fail.
I will, however, say that stuff at her radio station was the most enjoyable part of the book and the reason why I read as much as I did.
I have read two books from this series, and i can say i hate it.
You get the idea in the beginning of the book that she is emotionally crippled and doesn't know just how pathetic her certain actions really are.
Kitty is a horrible main character without a single likable attribute and i can say with all the conviction of my heart that i do NOT want to know what happens to her in the series.
Oh my - old timers! I thought I had this book, but couldn't find it. For some reason I'd collected the next 4, but didn't have the first, which was weird. I hadn't realized I read it! Well, I'm going to re-read it & then read the others that I have. I guess it wasn't particularly memorable.I barely got into it & remembered it fairly well. I blame my lack of memory on me & reading dozens of similar books over the past few years. It was fun! On to the next!!!------- From 27Oct08 ------
I thought I had this book, but couldn't find it.
I blame my lack of memory on me & reading dozens of similar books over the past few years.
About halfway through & I couldn't put it down, as the heroine came into her own (a little too rapidly, but it worked for me).
It's not great literature by any stretch, but it was a fun, quick read.
It wasn't quite as predictable as so many of these books are & while sex happens occasionally, it isn't graphic.
I'll look forward to reading another.
I been wanting to read this for a while now.
So as I was reading it, I found I liked Kitty at times.
It didn't stop me from liking the story.
Well maybe a tiny bit.
The radio bits were the best parts as well.
Near the end I didn't expect to go in that direction.Or maybe it had to do with me going in not hearing much about the books, except that its a good urban fantasy series and that's it.
Looking forward to the rest of the series to see where the story goes.
3.5I hated this book to begin with. The pack dynamics SUCKED and I don't think the way it was was how it really should be. Carl sucked as an Alpha. He wasn't that strong and he was spineless. Zan should have been killed when he attacked, but it's explained like it was due to him being a werewolf. Which I felt was a cop out. This book also does a lot of telling too which got annoying and the radio show though is interesting. Still I'm thinking I'll read the next one.
Dude, he has a mate and he's still screwing you when he feels like it and he's protecting you how?
The way some of the reviewers have portrayed the character as 'abused/traumatized'..I feel the urge to clear the air here.
She came from a loving family, lived a healthy life but she lets herself be treated like a rag doll.
As we can see near the end of the book, she had it in her all those friggin' time but still she didn't deflect the blows and that says it all.Next, I liked the way she hosted the show.
