https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/152121.Blue_of_Noon
In a time and place of fear there is often a self portrait that emerges that can no longer be hidden - and this is the true 'us' who we did not want others to see. Excellent examination of that which we hide - but that emerges in times of conflict.
If, for instance, a person with the sufficient knowledge of the pre-war Europe along with its political turmoils and its popular philosophical ideologies, might end up liking it much better.
The reason for the extra reading: The novel is situated in a particular historical setting of Europe and the characters are allusions to various philosophical/political positions of the then Europe (Thanks to the introduction to Will Self).
It was the time Fascism was gaining ground all over Europe.The novel as such deals with a man and his amorous encounters with three women.
True, it’s not just the suffering but his warped take on sex that’ll compell you, but in Blue of Noon, like Hitchcock, he seems to have perfected unseen-fuelled suspense, and there’s no need to explicate what is manifest in his characters’ actions.In London, in a cellar, in a neighbourhood dive – the most squalid of unlikely places – Dirty was drunk.
Não. Georges Bataille não é para mim. Pelo menos O Azul do Céu. Excepto o título, tudo é negro neste livro:Uma alcoólica (chamada Dirty) que não controla o sistema digestivo ("superior e inferior");Um homem que descobre ser necrófilo quando vê o cadáver da mãe;Cenas de sexo em cemitérios;E mais umas coisas que já esqueci...Nada disto me impressionou, apenas me enfastiou. Ou estou a ficar perversa, ou não entendi nada. Espero que a segunda hipótese seja a certa...(Na parte final tem uma referência ao Nazismo, mas já não me interessou fazer a ligação aos acontecimentos do cemitério e da taberna...)
I've read this book three weeks ago in scarce hours, but its female characters still haunt my mind - Lazare, Dirty.
The book strongly reminded me of all the fiction I have read by Henry Miller, but it is far more elegant.
Intimate and not at all political, there's nothing radical in this book but its historical context barely dimly seen.
I feel like I could have written this too.
I picked up this book in order to establish a link between eroticism and political engagement, however it seems like this is what the book is missing..
Brief, but scarringly debauched reminiscences of a man and his self-destructive relationships with three women (ugly Lazare, submissive Xenia and perverted Dirty) set against the rise of Nazism and the Catalan riots in 1935. Abusive, drunken, dilettante Communism, self-harm and perverse (with even a touch of necrophilia thrown in), this is not for the faint hearted, but it is powerful, nihilistic fare and despite the gruesomeness of it all, I wanted to go straight back to read parts of it again, so it definitely has something.
Por momentos, las fisuras tiemblan, se multiplican, se ramifican.
Hay expansión de agonías, opresiones, perversiones, epifanías.
El azul del cielo es una novela crónica de uno de esos momentos prerrevolucionarios.
Por eso se trata de un clima de época, pero también de patrones estéticos de quiebre que ocurren en otros momentos de efervescencia.
Es una novela de pura pasión, de tanta intensidad que gasta rápido la vida.
Es una novela erótica, perversa, política, filosófica.
Hay mucho sexo, alcohol, vómito, asco y fascinación.
La mirada horizontal es de caos y dolor.
La mirada vertical es tranquilidad.
“In front of them, their leader – a degenerately skinny kid with the sulky face of a fish – kept time with a long drum major's stick.
He held this stick obscenely erect, with the knob at his crotch, it then looked like a monstrous monkey's penis that had been decorated with braids of coloured cord.
Like a dirty little brute, he would then jerk the stick level with his mouth; from crotch to mouth, from mouth to crotch, each rise and fall jerking to a grinding salvo from the drums.
Such gorgeous writing! Absolutely in love with Bataille! On to Nick Land's The Thirst for Annihilation. Bataille is one of those men you wish you had in your life, a distant cousin perhaps, or an unrequited love. And I'm so happy he gave a shoutout to Kafka in the appendix. So much alike, the two. And so very fascinating!
The nature of hot sex and fascism via the eyes of the one and only Georges Bataille. Now here's a man who knew how to have a good time. One cannot seperate the politics from the sex. Is lust an individual desire or part of the whole picture?
The beautiful abject. Disgusting, gorgeous, desperate and simply divine.And incestuous, necrophiliac desires followed by outdoor rutting, for those less interested in poetry.
»(149)Ces méchants chapitres défilent en effet comme de petits coups sournois sur l'âme bonne, sur l'esprit serein, sur l'existence saine, pour en faire gicler le sang en le maculant d'encre noire et sale.Bref, ce roman sans âme, souillé, rance, où la déchéance est si complète et dénuée de grandeur qu'elle en devient franchement ennuyante saura à coup sur affecter la bonne humeur la plus radieuse et ne décevra certainement pas son lecteur averti.
Histoire de l'oeil was quite a bit better; this one dragged on a bit. The last 35 pages or so, however, were sublime. Poor Xenie.
In this context, it is a social document of sorts, set amongst the bien-pensant prosperous and idle French middle classes of the 1930s who were adopting leftist views without enthusiasm or understanding and sensing the cataclysm to come.Bataille was part of the Surrealist movement and the book is an uneasy marriage of dream sequence and realism - a brave attempt perhaps but unsatisfactory.
It is like the general air of despair amongst our middle classes as they contemplate the possibility that our society has broken down domestically as a result of the ideological 'war' betweem progressives and neo-liberals.There is another reason to keep the book in the library - a few moments of brilliant clarity.
It starts off in a world of deliberately crude debauchery and even cruder frequent weeping by its protagonist. As it goes on the backdrop of political events comes to the fore, as the protagonist travels from London to Vienna to Paris to Barcelona to Nazi Germany, all in 1935. The relationship between the personal wretchedness and the general European slide into Fascism is not at all obvious, yet demands further thought. I don't know yet what to think of the book, but it has me thinking.
Interesting for the contemporaneous history. Spain, France, Austria, Germany 1935
” Her insan, az ya da çok, hayatın farklı gerçeklerini ortaya çıkaran öykü ve romanlarla kendisi arasında bağlar kurar.
Kimi zaman kendinden geçmiş bir halde okuduğu bu öyküler, onları kaderle bile yüz yüze getirebilir.
Bu sebeple öykülerin, ne olabileceğini, yenilenmesi ya da daha iyiye gidebilmesi için gerekli olan çabaları nasıl yönetebileceğimizi tutkuyla araştırmak zorundayızdır.
Ancak, öykülere, hayatın gizli yanlarını ortaya çıkarmagücünü verenin, sadece ani çılgınlık anları ya da ıstırap deneyimleri olduğunu ileri sürmüyorum.
Burada, bu konudan bahsetmemin nedeni, Göğün Mavisi’ndeki korkunç aykırılıkların beni yıkıma uğratan büyük bir sıkıntıdan kaynaklanıyor olmasıydı sadece.
Göğün Mavisi’ ni bu aykırılıklar oluşturdu diyebilirim.
Far tamer than I expected it to be, and it kind of felt undercut by the author's afterword stroke introduction in the back of my edition. Nevertheless I enjoyed the layers of existentialist symbolism and contrast between war and erotic depravity, filth, dirt, lust, sickness etc. 3.698
A vertiginous collapse of narrative, consciousness, and fiction, as they cascade into the madness which is too horrifying to be anything but what we call reality.
Like some sort of Rousseau who loves getting drunk and peeing on the floor, the characters are deeply into debasement as a sort of intoxicating freedom.
Frankly, to me, it feels like there's enough people pissing all over the place.But it fits into my general Henry Miller, George Orwell, Movable Feast getting down and dirty in Paris in the thirties thing, and despite a really clean, minimal text (translation by Harry Mathews?) there are moments of beautiful and funny turns of phrase.
I don't know, it was like 140 pages.
Went searching for a Bataille novel at my local library and this was the only one currently available; in retrospect, it probably wasn't a great place to start.
I've not given up on Bataille, quite the contrary actually, but despite the occasional moments of brilliance I had to admit this just didn't do a thing for me.
"I got out of the car and thus beheld the starry sky overhead.
Twenty years later, the boy who used to stick himself with pens was standing under the sky in a foreign street where he had never been, waiting for some unknown, impossible event.
Tensely positioned before the outbreak of war in Europe, this novel explores the depravity, cowardice, and amorality of a world which seems to be unable to exist with itself.
Troppmann himself is unable to flee from this decay -- instead he embraces the ugliness, the death.Bataille writes with exceptional fluidity, moving from one moment to the next without any waste or unnecessary sentiment.
The most notable shortcoming of this novel is, however, its brevity; at times fluidity gives way to haste, forcing into the narrative ambiguity which serves no purpose but to keep the word count low.
Now, shopping spree to me means to buy more books than my arms can take and this one was among them.Written four years before the beggining of the World War II and one years before the spanish civil war (1935) but on published in 1957 to attend his friends requests because they loved his book, Georges Bataille antecipates the suffering and the pain that would come from these events, affecting the population.
Drowning in alcohol and prostitutes, fascinated about death, Henri's body becomes a reflection of his feelings and lifestyle and that's what i loved about Georges's writing: he's constantly exploring and pushing the limits, wether it's regarding feelings, relationships, his body or death.A totally different approach than what i'm used to.
Compared to his "The Story of the Eye," Bataille's later work is a much more maturely fleshed out story, if not as directly shocking. There is only one actual sex scene, and that near the end of the book, but much more physical sicknesses and subtle perversions relating to control. As this story hinges around the advent of the First World War Bataille's relentless metaphors all describe war-like imagery and relationships of violence and power. I am particularly fond of Sartre's description of the book, that Bataille has "a holocaust of words."
Un libro magnífico, con una velocidad narrativa impresionante. La humanidad de sus personajes desborda al lector. Existe una conjunción perfecta, cerca del desenlace, en la que todos los conflictos planteados se confrontan y disuelven. Amor, política, muerte, egoísmo, dolor. Un libro humano, que no deja indiferente, e invita a reflexionar sobre la propia vida, los ciclos inacabables de la existencia humana.
Pretty good read. Episodic in nature, with an ending that brings together all of the events depicted. The appendix included in the Penguin's classics version is fascinating.
I found the book in the library, should I read, or shouldn't I?
Elle m'enlaça, me serrant violemment: c'était, depuis longtemps, la première fois qu'lle se déchaînait.»«Elle expira comme une plainte, comme si elle suppliait tout à coup: -Je t'aime...Elle colla sa bouche fraîche à la mienne.
Quand sa langue lécha la mienne, ce fut si beau que j'aurais voulu ne plus vivre.» Un vrai chef d'oeuvre atrocement violemment beau.
Pour se transporter dans un autre monde, avec peu de temps pour lire, c'est vraiment un très bon livre marquant.
Si hâte de lire d'autres de ses oeuvres...
P.S (Ce n'est pas un livre pour les âmes sensibles)
Os movimentos políticos derivam do nosso entendimento, claro está, mas Georges Bataille, neste livro mais do que nunca, alertou-nos para o abismo inalterável, "inadulterável", o desenvolvimento da psique sexual adulta face às revoluções do mundo material - pondo em questão a sua noção de posse. E no fim, bem, no fim, depois de rirmos, chorarmos e conseguirmos fechar a boca, olhamos para cima. O céu é azul, mas nunca o azul voltou a ser como era. Georges Bataille tornou o céu azul adulto. Algo que é "inadulterável".
Göğün Mavisi'ni Bataille 1935'te yazmış ancak yayımlamamış. 1957'de dostlarının ısrarıyla yayımlamış kitabı. Kitaba yazdığı önsözde ".... İspanya ve Dünya savaşı, roman örgüsüne bağlı tarihi olaylara anlamsızlık kazandırmıştı; gerçek trajediyle yüz yüzeyken, habercileriyle ilgilenmenin ne anlamı olabilirdi" diye soruyor. Gerçekten soru çok ama çok yerinde. Bataille'nin okuduğum ikinci kitabı Göğün Mavisi. Hem Gözün Hikayesi'nde hem de Göğün Mavisi'nde birbirine karşıt ikilikler bütünleşiyor: tiksinti ile arzu, ölüm ile erotizm, acı ile haz!
