https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76104.The_Exploits_of_Sherlock_Holmes
Sin embargo, en los años 50 del pasado siglo, Adrian Conan Doyle, hijo menor de Sir Arthur y conocedor de su manera de escribir, y John Dickson Carr, famoso escritor de novelas de misterio y policíacas y gran seguidor de Sherlock Holmes, unieron fuerzas para escribir algunos relatos a la forma de Conan Doyle padre.
La manera de expresarse de Holmes y Watson, los misterios presentados y la ambientación victoriana, logran que el lector se olvide por un momento de que no está leyendo una de las historias escritas por Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.Estos son los seis relatos incluidos en esta edición de Valdemar de ‘Las hazañas de Sherlock Holmes’:La aventura de los siete relojes.
This collection of apocryphal Sherlockiana has a special status: the stories herein are the first "authorised" pastiches that came out after the demise of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.
The rarest of rare collection og pastiches & parodies, edited by Ellery Queen, had been ruthlessly suppressed by Adrian Conan Doyle.
The strong points that shout in the favour of the stories are: Holmes is true to canon, Watson is authentic, the settings and the characters don't create any discord with those of the canon, and the plots are tight (if not somewhat gimmicky, which takes away some of the re-read value.
I must confess that when I read this collection of short stories over 30 years ago, I missed out on one tiny little detail.
Before the short stories there is a section called “Always Holmes’, if I read that section, this book would have never lasted as long as it did on my bookshelf.
A lot of people can write a novel or short story.
I am not an expert on deconstructing fiction so I can’t explain why I think this collection looks like but doesn’t quite match the original.
Years ago, I read Adrian Conan Doyle's "Tales of Love and Hate" and I was appalled at the lack of talent of the son of such a gifted writer.
I hoped that Dickson Carr, a wonderful mystery writer,would add the necessary talent to these Sherlockian pastiches.
I was wrong.
The stories are not badly written but they betray the Holmesian spirit in more than one way.
Watson is minimized as a vehicle more than as a friend; Holmes' misogyny, which did not despise women but feared and respected them, in this case portrays ladies as puppets of their emotions...
There have been better pastiches and there will be.
So now that all those brilliant works by dear Arthur are all indelible features of my memory, perhaps it's time I revisited his son's attempts to recreate his father's style with the help of his dad's old desk and of collaborator John Dickson Carr.
Fun though.What always occurs to me after reading a Sherlock Holmes anthology, and the number is legion, is that no matter how closely the writers mimic Conan Doyle senior's style, or how many Holmsian elements are included, none of them come close to performing the alchemy that Arthur Conan Doyle did.
Holmes observing people and thus figuring out their profession or there earlier whereabouts followed by Watson and any other person in their company giving a 'start'.
Mind you it's always a start.
It's always a start.
Watson unlike later in the original stories continues to assume that Holmes is making stuff up until Holmes explains to him, his chain of thought.2.
I don't remember Holmes really 'Tutting' people so much in the original stories.3.
Lestrade keeps going on about Holmes being a theoretical person and he himself being a practical one in every single story he appears in.
2.5 StarsThis book is an imitation game. It's written like Sir Doyle's work,but without much of the original's magic. There are some stories which came close to great but is overshadowed by the rest of short stories which are either derivative or poorly executed.Rather than exploits of sherlock holmes, some stories felt like exploiting of Sherlock Holmes !Personal Favorite: Adventure of highgate miracle and Adventure of sealed Room
These stories are very authentic in tone and plot, and the characters remain as Doyle created them. I did find it jarring to revisit that world and that style, and as good as they are, I wasn't ready for a journey that far into the past and didn't finish the book. I recommend it for true blue fans.
The apple not only fell far from the tree, but it rolled down the hill and pretty much out of sight.
While Adrian, Arthur's son, perfectly captures the period--the hansom cabs, the dottles of tobacco in the numerous pipes, the reliable wonderment of Dr. Watson, and the cool, analytical intellect of Sherlock Holmes, the exciting climaxes of Holmes's deductions kind of left me with an "oh, I guess I sort of get it" feeling rather than the "amazing!
How did he do it?" feeling that I have always gotten from reading Arthur's original stories.
In some ways this reads like fan-fiction, in that it tries too hard to recall the original stories.
At times this is almost direct quoting of the text ("I thought for the moment that you had done something clever"), at others mimicry ("I would draw your attention to the fireplace chair" - "But there is no fireplace chair" - "That is why I draw your attention to it") All this means it does not feel originalThe stories themselves are familliar to Doyle's original fans.
Perhaps most disappointing though is 'Dark Angels' where Holmes reads the solution to the mystery almost entirely from a book on secret societies.There are also inconsistences within the stories.
If you like the original Sherlock Homes stories by Arthur Conan Doyle, then these are a great extension of those stories, written by his son, Adrian Conan Doyle.
The most fun part about it is that these stories are the ones referenced to in the original stories, but never told--those teaser announcements by Watson where he casually mentioned some other case they had been on--these are those in-between cases.
The reference to where the original story concept comes from is notated at the end of each story, and it is interesting to see how the tale was developed from just a simple phrase or sentence.
It is interesting that the Goodreads rating for this is higher than most of the original works.
It wonder if it is due to the nostalgia of reliving the joys of reading works of the master.The writing recaptures the original atmosphere, and the language is very close to Arthur Conan Doyle's.
For that, it was a delight reading this collection.
The quality of the mysteries, however, fell a little short.
I found them shallower than the originals.Regardless, this is volume worth reading and even preserving.
I had read it many years back, but had completely forgotten it.
I had a great time re-reading it.

The edition I have only contains the stories by Adrian Conan Doyle. They range from squibs in which Holmes seems to breeze in and solve a case in a day or so to more ambitious and exciting stories. The plots are all siblings or close cousins to various canonical stories, but manage to convey the atmosphere of the Baker Street world quite well. While not half the writer his father was, Adrian Doyle is at least not at abysmal a writer as Brian Herbert, another writer who has drawn from the well of a notable father's inspiration time and again.
Adrian Conan Doyle tries to live up to the expectations created because of his father and I feel that he has done a good job.My only complaint is that in all the stories he tries to stick with his father's style as much as possible which kind of looks redundant after some time. It would had been nice if he tried to add his own style into it, instead of just trying to imitate his father's style.Inspite of all of this I still enjoyed the book, since I could never get enough of Sherlock Holmes ;)
Adrian Conan Doyle might have been milking his father's legacy for an extra buck, but these non-canonical mysteries are still solid and entertaining. The collection is true to the tone of the original stories, without inappropriate additions or incongruous actions by any of the characters. Good bedtime reading.
Virtually identical in tone, atmosphere, and character to the original canon. The inclusion of three or four copycat stories (the plots were derived so heavily from canon that they are more or less identical, as in my notes) detract somewhat from an otherwise charming book.
Peccato, le storie sono tutte scopiazzate dal canone originale. A questo punto mi chiedo se sia fatto apposta oppure no...
This work is ok
This is a series of 12 short stories written by Adrian Doyle (Sir Arthur's son) and published in the 1950s.
At their best, these stories are almost like lost Doyle stories rather than something written by his son.
Overall, they are better than the final Sherlock Holmes tales Doyle wrote, and I'd be fine with them being added to the canon.Each tale takes a case mentioned in an established Holmes case but never described, and tells the story behind that mention.
At the end of each case is a small quote from a Holmes tale describing the missing case.Adrian doesn't have quite the gift of characterization that his father had, and at times he doesn't quite get Holmes or Watson right.
'The Exploits of Sherlock Holmes' is the earliest Holmes pastiche written jointly by Adrian Conan Doyle (the youngest son of Arthur Conan Doyle) and John Dickson Carr, a celebrated mystery writer.
The first 6 stories are written by Adrian and the other 6 by Carr.
The stories written by Doyle junior have more resemblance to the actual Holmes stories.
Carr's stories have a slightly different style, but owing to the author's prowess, manages to retain the spirit of the original Holmes mysteries.
Notable among these are 'The Adventure of the Deptford Horror' and 'The Adventure of the Red Widow'.
The first half of the book are stories by Adrian Conan Doyle WITH John Dickson Carr.
I wondered *why* I had ever liked Sherlock Holmes stories as they seemed so far-fetched, so manipulated, so deus ex machine.
But, the second half of the book contains stories written solely by Adrian Conan Doyle and *these* were stories so reminiscent of the original Arthur Conan Doyle stories that I immediately felt the connection.
I remembered *why* I loved the original stories, the warmth between Holmes and Watson, the connection Holmes had to others - his gentleness, his frailties, his humanity.
A very well written Holmes pastiche. The language is admirably similar to the senior Doyle and the descriptions are equally detailed and succeeds in creating the atmosphere.The quality of the stories are closer to the late originals .In other words they are not in the same bracket as the stories from first 3 Holmes compilations .However,the atmosphere and period details are immaculate and the stories are enjoyable if not very remarkable except a couple. They do not touch the lofty standards of late Arthur but Adrian is no slouch either .
The initial stories are delightfully true to the original series by Sir Arthur. They are original, with attention to small details and are most satisfying. As with the standard works, we are transported to victorian England being illuminated by the master sleuth's brilliance. The chemistry between Holmes and Watson is untouched and nostalgia warms the reader back to his first childhood 'Sherlock' reading pleasures.
The first 6 stories, written in varying degrees of collaboration, are a real mixed bag, with some scenes and especially some lines of dialogue hitting false notes. The remaining 6 were all written by Adrian Conan Doyle alone, and these are far more successful; several perfectly capture the flavour of the original stories, their plots and their sombre atmospheres lingering long in the memory.
Excellent collection of short mysteries written by John Dickson Carr in collaboration with Sir Arthur Conan Doyle’s youngest son. Taking references to cases from Sir Doyle’s original canon of stories, Carr and Doyle are creative and true to the style of the original stories. Of interest to Holmes fans but also just those who enjoy mystery short stories.
Solid Holmesian Apocrypha. Everything about it felt like the originals, in fact sometimes better. My one grievance lies in the obvious similarities between some of the later cases and cases in the original Sherlock Holmes.
I loved this, you could tell how much effort went into making this as close to the originals as they could. The plots of each story varied in strength of course, but this book has earned a spot on my Holmes shelf for sure!!
Very fun! I thought the stories were very close to the originals in style and content. A couple of them were a little weak and I thought Holmes broke character a few times, but it didn't spoil my enjoyment at all.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
