https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/435096.Three_Plays
Exciting plays. Especially love "The Emperor Jones".
Whether we are looking at the author's insensitive and borderline racist use of dialect, his tendency to paint women as whores that appears over and over again in his works, or the author's lack of nuance when it comes to dealing with issues of class and politics, these plays can do one thing well, and that is offend, as these plays are likely to offend most of the people who read them, for better or worse.The three plays of this collection combine for less than 200 pages of material, making them easy to read, at least, from a perspective of length.
The main character was written to be evil, and then was contrasted with a equally evil white man who never suffers, and then all we do is see the black protagonist suffer the entire rest of the play, constantly at the expense of other black characters...it was a mess, and difficult to stomach.Anna Christie - Ah yes, the not-so-fair maiden who just can’t seem to make up her mind about whether she will wed a man who just walked through the door intent on murdering her.
While I love Long Day's Journey... and O'Neill in general, I found The Emperor Jones really hard to read - mostly because the attempt at capturing the vernacular really failed (for me). Anna Christie is best for this aspect.
Part of why I like my local library is that I can find a 1938 edition of three Eugene O’Neill plays and read an introduction that is a contemporary rather than historical essay of the plays.
The Hairy Ape: Throughout The Hairy Ape, I kept thinking of Plato’s "Allegory of the Cave." I haven’t seen any references to it in the few essays I read about the play, but I can’t escape my own feeling that The Hairy Ape is Plato’s tale set in a capitalist system that borders on an oligarchy.
O'Neill's plays on the whole are some of the best to read because they have a mix of mostly gritty realism with some fantastical or expressionistic elements; on the whole you can really "see" everything happening, and what the characters look like, and then you'll run into something fun that will really make your imagination work, and you just long to see how it might be put onto the stage in a production.I've heard "The Emporer Jones" compared to Ibsen's "Peer Gynt" symbolically, but it always reminds me more of "Heart of Darkness" due to the jungle setting, but also the feel of persecution permeating throughout, and the explorations of how a seemingly regular or even low-class or undeserving person can set onself into power through the use of superstition, fear, manipulation, and exploitation of ignorance.
O'Neill does a fantastic job of illustrating the struggle of a character as they desperately cling to the remaining thread of their facade before it is forced from them, leaving them stripped of everything but their true forms; the inner ugliness and secrets kept hidden, crammed down into darker places, because their social acceptance depended on it.
The characters of these three plays (as well as the plays themselves) lack the depth and humorous disparity present in my favorite O'Neill play, Long Day's Journey Into Night, but they are still interesting and profound in their own ways.
The most enjoyable of the three was The Emperor Jones, but I felt that was because I was easily able to envision the theatrical potential in the setting and dialogue.
The Emperor Jones and Anna Christie (you can buy the film with Greta Garbo--they did an English version and a German version) are two of my favorites by O'Neill. While they lack the epic scale, grandeur, and grace of Long Day's Journey (obviously a masterpiece), these plays are still brilliantly innovative and present a more raw vision of the experimentation that would be taken to Shakespeare-esque transcendent theater with LDJN. The drum beats of Emperor Jones!!! The dialogue in Anna Christie! AH!
Haven't read any O'Neill in more than 20 years and have thus far only read The Hairy Ape from this collection. Still settling in to it, but it's good enough to make me reread Emperor Jones. Gotta be a helluva challenge to stage this thing. O'Neill's dialect jangles like a brutal caricature (See:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VfH9pC... for reference) in my head, but Yank--the oppressed hairy ape/boiler man of the title who fits exactly nowhere--feels just as real and moving and in this thing as he insists he is. He belongs, y'see?
If Nietzsche had an Irish temperament he would be Eugene O'Neill. One of the greatest playwrights to ever live. He create his plays from an autobiographic perspective, lanced with wit, candor, and raw emotions.If i had to pick one from the three, Hairy Ape is one of his best plays "It takes a MAN to work in hell"! But read ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING O'Neill wrote he doesnt disappoint in showing the subtle tensions that make the human condition a tragic-comic one!
یوجین اونیل (1953-1888) نمایش نامه نویس آمریکایی برنده ی نوبل، متاثر از تیاتر واقع گرای چخوف و هنریک ایبسن بود. او که سال ها روی کشتی کار کرده بود، در اغلب آثار اولیه اش به زندگی ملاحان و سفرهای دریایی پرداخت. آخرین نمایش نامه های اونیل، بهترین آنها هستند که به نوعی تراژدی شخصیت های نومید مشهور اند.
I had to read 'The Hairy Ape' for class, and I finished the other two on my own. 'Anna Christie' was my favorite of the three. The dialogues were hard to read, but I got through them. 'The Emperor Jones' reminded me of 'Their Eyes Were Watching God' for some reason.
I just don't like reading plays. Doesn't that kind of defeat the purpose?I didn't really not like it though. It just didn't add or subtract anything to/from my life at all, except maybe the hour or two spent reading it.
More of a 3.5 - These might be classics, but they aren't O'Neill's best work (I enjoyed The Hairy Ape quite a bit). The real draw here is just seeing a young O'Neill find his voice, and seeing how far he was attempting to push performance art right out of the gate.
'The Emperor Jones' was interesting but short, 'The Hairy Ape' less interesting but longer. My favourite was definitely 'Anna Christie' - a provocative work on love, sexuality, family, and redemption.
I've just read the last play in this book, "The Hairy Ape," but I enjoyed the dialect of it and the use of a Greek chorus throughout a more contemporary play. The main character, Yank, speaks like Pop-eye, but is profoundly sincere at several moments.
The plays fell flat with me. But then, most of the plays I've read alone since college have also lacked something. I think it's in the nature of the thing -- better to read these aloud with a group, and best to see them performed.I'm sure I'll reevaluate once I take in a good performance.
Great plays! Emperor Jones was a fantastic read, so was Anna Christie. Very refreshing change from reading normal books.
ENG 105: Literature in EnglishThe Emperor JonesAnna Christie
Local staging.
