https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/557188.Five_Go_Off_to_Camp
They also find a disused railway yard near a tunnel entrance.The second part of the puzzle is the suspicious affluence of the local farmer whose stepson they befriend.A mad old man with a wooden leg introduces them to the idea of spook trains running on disused lines with no lights.
They don't let her.Predictably the spook train is spotted, but when the boys explore the tunnel it went into it seems to have vanished.Separately George and the boys discover the hiding place, get captured, and find that the unreasonably rich farmer is involved.
Loved this book when I was a child and my children and grandchildren love it too.Enid Blyton started a lifetime love affair with books for me and I still have my Enid Blyton readers club badge. Thank you Enid Blyton for inspiring me to read when I was a child. Recommended.
Most pathetic story I've read so far in the Famous Five Series.
Girls go and wash/clean/cook.
Do not go to the adventure coz it won't be safe.
Even when George is far more brave than any of the kids.All that Anne wants to do is play mother, but why make George suffer coz of that??
If Julian and Dick were so concerned about Anne's safety, one of them could have stayed back instead of forcing their wishes on George.
Hate how Enid makes it George's mistake to be angry.
The 1st book where I wanted the story to get over asap.
5 stars love this series so much.
Five Go Off To Camp is quite an exciting installment of the Famous Five series.Anne, Dick, George, Julian and Timmy go camping on the moors (they clearly didn't hear the chap telling them to stick to the roads) and are startled to hear an ominous rumbling beneath their feet.When they meet a local farmer's son, Jock, and he tells them about the local legend of the 'spook trains' that cross the moors at night, the five simply have to investigate...It's all a bit Scooby Doo...
It actually made me wonder if there was some degree of influence in the other direction...
Man, Julian and Dick were real jerks in this book! Was equally pissed of at them now as I was when I was kid.
These books (Famous five) are hands down one of my favorite books from my childhood. All those adventures and mystery …and those sandwiches they always packed! aww, just the best! I would love to read one of these again. To bring back those memories..memories of first experiences of reading books.
Of course, Anne is the other girl in the five and although she always sets my teeth on edge with her stereotypical femininity, She comes through too and helps Mr Luffy bring in the police when times get toughA cute little story, and one of my favorites out of the five series.
Enid Blyton captured something beautiful in her books, and it's a shame kids these days aren't reading her as voraciously as they did in my parents and long before that time.
... reading with my 9 year old daughter...I've read all these books way back when I was a child and I've read them numerous times. I thought it was time to show them to her.This one was yet one more that she had loved.
Accompanied by their new friend, from a local farm: Jock, they venture out into the night, to investigate the extraordinary appearance of these peculiar trains, only to expose themselves to some of the most dangerous criminals they have faced, yet...Random thoughts:The book starts with the children planning their camping holiday during the summer.
Also, Blyton makes it sound as if sleeping on the ground in sleeping bags is more comfortable than it really is.Mr. Luffy lets them camp away from him, so as not to spoil the children's fun.
Anne doesn't want to go look for the "spook trains" in the tunnels, so George is kept away from the adventure because someone needs to stay with Anne.
Buku pertama dari Enid yang saya baca.
Akhirnya ya saya resmi ''berkenalan' dengan beliau XDWaktu jualan online dulu, ada yang pernah pesan 1 set Roald dahl dan Enid.
trus saya jadi penasaran pengen baca karya dari keduanya dan ternyata saya kurang cocok dengab Roald dahl.
Tapi karena ini buku pertama yang saya baca jadi saya gak bisa komentar banyak.latar ceritanya menarik, tokoh yang terlibat selain lima sekawan-nya sendiri juga cukup memuaskan meskipun agak aneh sih.
Kayak, pak Luffy yang digambarkan plin plan, pelupa gitu2 tapi kok bisa bijak(?) bingung deh wqtapi seru.
saya jadi ikut merasakan petualangan dan penasaran berpikir-apa ya yang akan terjadi selanjutnya?coba seri lain ah~
I don't have any memory of reading this one from my childhood. Pretty poor. There is very little charm to this one, no little moments that prompt a chuckle and a plot that is both thin and nonsensical. Our little band of crimebusters are pretty much obnoxious throughout with everybody including each other. Their eating is off the charts - they wouldn't be obese if they ate like this in real life they'd be dead. And their constant blathering on about spook trains (whatever that might be) is very irritating.
Was looking for something short to get used to my new e-book reader.
When I was a kid, I read everything by Enid Blyton I could get my hands on, and I was curious how her books would rate today.
Sadly these don't hold up at all, compared to some childrens classics like, say, Edith Nesbit.
The book was written in '48 and it shows: The boys condescend to the girls.
One girl cooks and tidies up and gets frightened easily, the other one is a tomboy and doesn't want to be called by her real name.
Probably wouldn't enjoy these as a kid today.
Easy to read, and great as always.Only real disappointment was the distinct lack of Kirrin Island ;D
The step-fathers in Enid Blyton novels are always dodgy geezers
Die Fünf Freunde erleben viel in diesem Abenteuer beim Zelten. Julian hat wieder die Hosen an, ein undurchsichtiger Schwiegervater und wieder ist ein temporärer sechster Freund aus der Gegend dabei. [05.08.2018]

Buku ini gak sengaja aku dapatkan waktu lg bersih2 perpustakaan di SD,bukunya dah lusuh banget,tp berhubung judul bukunya bikin penasaran,langsung deh aku bawa pulang dan kubaca. Petualangan KETUJUH mereka yang seru dan mengasyikkan!Kereta api hantu di tengah malam! Tanpa masinis, tanpa penumpang, tanpa siapa pun di atasnya. Hanya lampunya yang redup dan suaranya yang mendirikan bulu roma… Kereta itu menghilang di kegelapan ke manakah perginya? Lima Sekawan menyelidikinya dan menemukan tempat yang aneh dan menyeramkan di bawah tanah!
In their seventh adventure, the Five go off camping on the moors under the supervision of one of their teachers, Mr Luffy. Amazingly enough, they stumble across an adventure - this one involves the mysterious appearance (and disappearance) of "spook trains". Will they unlock the mystery in time?Spoiler: yes, yes they will. And there will be glorious descriptions of food, helpful adults and bad adults, and everything else that is expected from a Famous Five book. I'm making my way through this series for nostalgic reasons and I still love it!
When five go off to camp they need very large packed lunches. It's very hard to be more than three feet from a fully stocked larder (minimum 59 giant cakes of all the yummiest flavours). However will they manage on just 94 meals a day???
A break from "serious" reading to enjoy a classic. Spook trains, camping, nefarious farmers. Love it
Amazing just like last one
just as amazing as the other famous five books
Smashing!
Three stars plus one for Mr Luffy! What a great character, if he were real I think I would adore him.
I can't believe I cannot say anything about this volume. In my childhood, I read each volume many many times. And it always gave a great feeling each time you finish it.
Reading this book as an adult , just to drink.from the cup of Nostalgia . Needless to say , as Jock says " It was Smashing !!! " !
I lovvvvvvvvvvvvvve this book,Enid Blyton is amazzzzzzzzzing.I like all of the Julian,Dick,George,Anne and Timmy the dog.
Not my favourite book in the series. But I loved the character of Mr. Luffy. :) Very fun adventure.
This story dealt with the five children making a good friend who joined in the adventure, little Anne showing she was braver than she gave herself credit for and black marketers getting caught in their game.The thrilling aspect is the fact that ghost trains or "spook trains" were making the rounds at the camping side which added to the mystery of the adventure.I really enjoyed this adventure a lot.A very good read.
