https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25953369-hidden-figures
Man I really really wanted to like this book. I enjoy nonfiction and I loved the subject matter the author went after. However, this was just so dry. It felt very clinical as opposed to experiencing life with these women. Also some of the facts that the author was trying to get across were so repeated their value lost meaning. Bummer because it could have been SOOO good.
I want EVERYBODY to read this. It's a story you need to hear. It will move you, it will surprise you, it will frustrate you and it will inspire you. No matter your gender, ethnicity, race or creed, you need this in your life.
The book was as amazing as the movie. I had occasion to meet the author who is the niece of one of these remarkable women. It is unbelievable that we did not know about the contributions of these women until now. This shows how history and historians are extremely selective and do not stray from the pre-established political narrative. I'm sure there are countless other untold stories about women and minorities. Thanks to Margot Shetterly for introducing us to these (s)heroes of rocket science(!) of all things!
Let's do this thing.As a child, however, I knew so many African Americans working in science, math, and engineering that I thought that's just what black folks did.THE GOOD: - Feminism!
Why would you feel the need to put a sentence like this in your book?Spaceship-flying computers might be the future, but it didn't mean John Glenn had to trust them.
It was as simple as eighth-grade math: by the transitive property of equality, therefore, John Glenn trusted Katherine Johnson.*Carmen massages her temples* Stop, just stop.
Wow , Wow , Wow , Wow , Wow , Wow Wow , Wow , Wow , Wow , Wow , WowTHIS BOOK HOLY SHIT * AMAZING *
But, with so many core values at stake in our immediate future, with the contributions of the best and the brightest on the line, this story reminds us of why we need maths and science, and how much we can accomplish if we all work together as people, with a common goal in mind.
This book is a learning experience and an extremely interesting peak at the 'behind the scenes' beginnings of the space program, proving that every person’s role and contribution is important and makes a difference.
Hidden Figures tells the stories of Dorothy Vaughan, Mary Jackson, Katherine Johnson, and Christine Darden, four African-American women who blazed the trail for others to follow in the fields of mathematics and engineering at NASA.
NASA, originally known as NACA (National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics) began hiring women during WWII as female computers.
I particularly enjoyed how this book focused on the individual stories of each woman.
At the onset of the story, the black mathematicians are forced to work on the west side of the Langley campus until the 60s when integration occurs.
I really hope that the author was able to get through some revisions to work out some of the weaknesses in the writing because the story is so important -- it's about African-American women in the South who, because of the war, are temporarily able to secure jobs as 'human computers' at NACA -- which later becomes NASA, despite living in a Jim Crow era of extreme racism and segregation.
I am actually excited in this case that there's a major motion picture b/c I think it'll bring the narrative structure into clearer relief -- the lives of the main characters -- Dorothy, Katherine and Mary -- are so intertwined and overlapping that it's hard to keep track of whose story is being told at any given moment.
“Even as a professional in an integrated world, I had been the only black woman in enough drawing rooms and boardrooms to have an inkling of the chutzpah it took for an African American woman in a segregated southern workplace to tell her bosses she was sure her calculations would put a man on the Moon.”I don't even read nonfiction if it doesn't involve making-of Harry Potter books (which I still consider fiction in a way).
I'm not even 100% sure if I discovered the book before I heard about the film adaption, but I think I did.All in all this book was highly informative, though I think I would have enjoyed it more if I was more interested in science, space and aerodynamics.
It is extraordinary to think that while these women worked at a place as technologically progressive as Langley Memorial Aeronautical Laboratory in Virginia, that this same state was steeped with the injustice imposed by the Jim Crow laws.
"Virginia, a state with one of the highest concentrations of scientific talent in the world, led the nation in denying education to its youth."I feel I should mention just a couple of minor quibbles I had which kept this from being a 5-star book for me.
I think a more linear story with sections devoted to the individual women would have worked better for me.
But the progress made by Russia (who incidentally had female astronauts at this time) was just as exciting for us as the progress made by the USA.When I discovered that there was a book called Hidden Figures: the Story of the African-American Women Who Helped Win the Space Race, all about these women who seemed to have been erased from history, it became a must-read.
It was probably largely factual, but more of a “feel-good” film which glossed over a lot of the detail.So then I read the original book, Hidden Figures: The Story of the African-American Women Who Helped Win the Space Race which had been published in 2016.
This book was everything I thought it would be, which unfortunately is why I didn't want to read it.
I should've stuck with my gut.Non-Fiction with a lacking narrative makes for tough reading.
It makes my brain too muddy to enjoy the actual events.
I never connected to these amazing women and am going to rely on the movie to give me the "feels" and throw my fist up in the air to support them in our battle for equality.This one could be for you if you love the things I don't listed above.
It never connected or picked up the tension for me.
I know in many ways we still have a long way to go, but this book shows how much has changed for the better through the persistance of those unlikely to be given a chance.Less than 80 years ago, in many places, people of different colors still couldn't share bathrooms, tables in cafeterias, etc.
While at first the feeling was that only white men could lead the charge, several strong, intelligent, and determined black women showed that they had what it takes to work on an equal level based on skills and accomplishments instead of their physical appearance.If you like science, American history, stories about Civil Rights, this is a must read.

Reading the book just gave me even more details about the African American women who came out as human computers (I had no idea that was where the word computers came from, they computed so were seen as computers) and helped shaped the United States space program.Shetterly has historian disease (yeah I use to suffer from this as well, historians unite!) so the flow was off a few times.
Shetterly then moves between the years of NACA eventually becoming NASA, the space race with the Russians, and the African American women who were there for it all.This book primarily focuses on Dorothy Vaughan and jumps back and forth between her being the central figure and adding in details about Katherine Johnson and Mary Jackson.
This is an excellent nonfiction novel to learn about the African-American women who largely contributed to America's race to space. What I especially appreciated was the way Shetterley always grounded the story in history. The reader is always reminded of what else is going on in the world as well as other American historical events. Hidden Figures is a must read.
Maybe it’s the fact that these brave and very smart women are never portrayed as less then super heroic—they seem to effortlessly glide through their everyday encounters of prejudice and discrimination with grace, perfection and little drama.
Maybe it’s the fact that the job of being a NASA computer as these women were is hard to describe and contains little conflict.
Maybe, it is just the fact that the story of every important historical figure does not make riveting reading.While Hidden Figures was interesting as a subject matter and it does make me want to learn more math, the book did not come across as anything special.
So all the way through reading "Hidden Figures", I was asking myself why haven't I ever heard about the African American Women Scientist involved in the US Space Program from it's earliest days!
Margot Lee Shetterly does a great job of telling their story.
For me one of the most telling statements she makes is "as a child, I grew up knowing so many Black people in Science, Math, and Engineering that I thought that was just what Black folks did..." which only goes to show the type of environment that created this group of remarkable Black Women Scientist.Overall an excellent book that I would recommend to others.
The Film, based on the "Hidden Figures" is due to be released early next year and should be something to look forward to.
They, and all the other West Computers, worked unbelievably hard and with often flawless accuracy, and were responsible for calculating the math for the designs of numerous planes and missiles, and for getting men into orbit and to the moon.The author describes the women's personal struggles from the Second World War to the 1960s against a background of racism (Jim Crow and all its ugliness of segregation and humiliation and the growing Civil right movement).
One thing that also came through in Shetterly's book is the sense of community and support the West Computers had for each other.
A very well researched book on a fascinating topic very few of us knew about until now. Glad the author brought to light these extraordinarily talented “human computers”. Be forewarned: this book has lots historical and technical information and not a lot of personal stories. Look forward to the movie!
Now, the thing is the movie trailer somehow makes it come off as a motivational story with humorous undertones but in fact the book has absolutely NO humor in it!!
The content and the subject matter is fabulous because of which I cannot give it anything under 3 stars.The problem which most of the non-fiction books generally have occurred here too.
Every-time we got a bit of interest in their stories the plot suddenly veered off mentioning other random people.*Sigh*.Coming to the good parts- the content.
It is literally everything I have wanted in a science history book for a while.Hidden Figures details the lives and achievements of the Black women who worked first as computers, then as mathematicians and engineers, for NACA (the National Advisory Committee of Aeronautics) and its successor, NASA.
And, like Dorothy Vaughan, they almost always went into teaching (especially if they were also Black), until the war came along and the demand for women in the workforce—and for computers.There were white women computers as well, and Shetterly names several of them and mentions their contributions at NACA.
I like the book, but it's not a story.
She also gives histories of many of the people and she goes into many of the historical backgrounds that got us here starting with World War II.
It's amazing.The movie takes all this history and goes in a makes a story from the middle part.
I like how Margot drove home the point that as we fought the Nazi's and as we tried to be the leader in the world, our backward stance on treating people equal always stood in our way to lead.
Hidden Figures: The American Dream and the Untold Story of the Black Women Mathematicians Who Helped Win the Space Race by Margot Lee Shetterly is a book not only about strong women but more.
It is a book about society, struggles, overcoming prejudices, spirit, strong will, and brains.
This book follows a handful of smart and tough women as they work their way through a society rigged against them in every way until they get a small break and they let their brilliance shine.
They deserved more credit then but society still wasn't ready and is it still?
Janelle Monáe, Margot Lee Shetterly, and Melissa Harris-Perry on the Importance of Portraying Nuanced Black Female CharactersJust WOW, and on so many levels of brilliance. You can take La La Land and give it away to any charity shop, maybe iron it out a bit first. (the dancing was less than a week three Strictly level)So, Oscar-wise:6* Hidden Figures2* La La LandTW Florence Foster JenkinsTW Fences
Intersectionality, I love thee.I'm having a hard time coming up with more to say because I just want to press Hidden Figures into your hands and say, "read this." Learning about Dorothy Vaughan, who moved away from her family for a chance at a job that would fulfill her while providing for her children, inspires me.
A must read for NASA history buffs, and highly recommended to anyone with an interest in the space program, civil rights, or pioneering women.Thanks to William Morrow and Edelweiss for providing a review copy.
It is a product of thorough research and is full of events and anecdotes that make us re-live the tough times black women had to endure during 50s and 60s.
Information such as 'State of Virginia was paying the colored students' tuition so that they don't bother the whites and go to colleges outside Virginia' is still shocking to know.The book starts at the time of WWII, continues with the cold war, space race, civil rights movement, and brings the untold stories of everyday heroes into daylight.
I have to say, I didn't think I would like this book.
As someone who hates math with a passion, I did not think I would enjoy it but hey I wanna see the movie so I gotta read the book.
I thought this book was so good, the only reason I didn't give 5 stars was Math( I really hate math and whenever it was mentioned my eyes glazed).
I also felt ashamed that I had never heard of these amazing women.
That is so amazing.
I recommend this book to everyone.
The book is an excellent history of NASA, and an even better history of some of the Black women who quietly went about their work as mathematicians and engineers without recognition or appropriate pay or titles despite having the same college degrees and work expectations when hired at the same time as the men (many hitting the glass ceiling quickly).
Long before the " space race" which began when the Russian's launched Sputnik, black women were being recruited to help fuel the aeronautic industry needs of World War II here at home.
This book tells about the lives of 4 of them who grasped the opportunity though fraught with the hardships of prejudice and became first , "computers" (when that was a job done by people not machines), then gradually moved up to assume their rightful places as the brilliant Mathematicians and Engineers they were, right through WWII, the Cold War, The Civil Rights Movement, and finally the Space Race.
I'm happy their stories have finally been told.Read for Black History Month-March KUYH 4 starsI hear the movie is very good as well.
