https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42603.Black_Like_Me
when the book came out, the Griffin family lived with us for many weeks until the threats died down.
and if you think it magically died in the 60's you're not paying attention.We have a ridiculous excuse for public and political discussion today.
Racism is part of the reason our public discussion is such a miserable intellectual failure.ONe of the most insidious claims is that racism is not part of our world or that thosewho challenge racism are somehow doing it for cynical political gain.yet we have a nationally popular pundit who uses the word "uppity"others use the code word "arrogant" and more than once, "socialist" hasbeen the code.
Another central point the author makes is that race has no scientifically-proven bearing on intelligence or morality; it's the societal structure we are forced to live in, what we are given, what we are deprived of and how we are treated by others that makes us the person we are.
I know that racism was a big problem in the South but I was still shocked to read how pervasive it was and what extreme forms it took.
Our attitudes about people of different races need to change, people need to be given equal opportunities despite the colour of their skin.
Sorry, but read a book by a black American about the black American experience if that’s what you want to learn about; I suspect any would be more holistic than to cast black men and women as purely agents of suffering with such despairing lives that poor Griffin should be exalted to sainthood for attempting to “live as a Negro” for 6 weeks.
Griffin is a white man his whole life, and readers think his slapping on some make-up for six weeks would allow him to understand the black experience.
More importantly to the man, John Griffin, he could see human beings and human life at a deeper level than many others around him could due to those years of not being able to ‘see’.What I liked best about Black Like Me was Griffin’s plain style of writing.
Don’t avoid looking at anyone, no matter who they are.
There are so many hurting people in need of kindness and love.And finally, black and white are only coverings on the outside and we have no control over them—well most of us don’t.
My main qualm with this book is that for some reason it's on teacher's lists and reading lists etc, but why are we listening and pushing a book written by a white man who "passed" as black for a while rather than actual black people who can and do study, write and explain their experience constantly.
Let's start listening and giving credence to real live black people who have lived their entire lives in black skin and then I won't have so much difficulty with the prominence of this one book.
I'm just another white person without any real experience.
This discomfort played out in Griffin's own life, when he admitted a few years after the publication of Black Like Me the terrible irony that people came to hear him speak, as if he were a circus side-show, yet would not give the same attention to civil rights and social justice advocates of color who lived their lives in the world where he had only sojourned for six weeks.
This was so incredibly painful and terrifying.
John Howard Griffin, a 39-year old white journalist of Sepia Magazine, changed his skin color and stayed for seven weeks in Deep South, USA among the black population.
The discrimination worked both ways, blacks stay away from whites and vice versa.
That scene when Mr. Griffin first looked at his face on the mirror as a black man brought a deep insight on the discrimination he did not know existed even inside himself.
Sometimes we are not aware of it just like the white Mr. Griffin the first time he looked at himself on the mirror as a black man.
This book must have been unbelievably revolutionary in its day.
I must admit that its original impact was lost on me at times because I expected many of Griffin's experiences as a white man disguised as a black man in 1959.
He's treated poorly by white bus drivers, the hotels he stays in are substandard, he has to use separate facilites.
Within just a few days, he feels as though he is fully a part of the African-American world.
In it he says that whites trying to help black people in the '60s inevitably tried to help by making the blacks act more white.
Far from a punchline, it’s the ethnographic method Griffin uses to infiltrate black neighborhoods that would be otherwise socially locked to him and elicit bigotry without guardedness and gentility from whites.
At its best, Griffin’s journey serves as an example of the courage and effort it requires to put aside privilege and face with empathy and an open heart the experiences of others who are oppressed.
At it’s worst, Griffin can engage in racial tourism and oppression pornography.
He freely uses certain epithets and assumes an air of ownership of his newly-pigmented skin, and elides looking like, thinking like, acting like, and being black.
Just ask a group of healthy individuals and they will likely tell you that they know the feelings of the sick!
Ask rich people and they will tell you that they know the feelings of the poor.
In Black Like Me, John Griffin, a white journalist, sought to answer a complex question: How does it feel like to be black in America?
Even the simple act of looking in a mirror proved to be tormenting because Griffin was looking at a black man with a white conscience.This is a beautiful and brilliant book, with plenty of philosophical ideas.
A note on rating: I would probably have given if five stars if I hadn't read Invisible Man and Between the World and Me - both tremendous eye openers, like this one - earlier this year.
I may yet revisit the rating if I continue to think of this book.
My first reaction was: where Between the World and Me focused on mental strain produced by being black, this book focused on everyday physical humiliations - having to plan your day around the very limited map of places when a black person could have a drink of water, use the restroom, buy something to eat.
Shocking afterword on civil rights activists's lives in the sixties.
The old saying is that you never know what someone else is going through or living until you’ve walked a mile in his shoes and frankly it’s impossible.
However, John Howard Griffin turned his skin black and tried to live as a black man for six weeks while travelling through the Deep South in 1959.
He persisted to take a medication which is normally prescribed to patients suffering from vitiligo, a disease where white spots appear on the body and the face, in conjunction with exposure to ultra-violet rays to darken his skin.
For the rest of the review go to http://didibooksenglish.wordpress.com...
Essential reading - I don’t know how I didn’t come across this sooner in my education.In 1959, John Howard Griffin decided to try to pass as a black man, to experience that life in America.
And when you read his indictments of Christians & patriots almost 60 years ago, it will sting to realize he could walk through America as a black man today & come to the same conclusions.
But that’s why it’s essential reading, especially for white people.
What a brilliant anthropological/sociological study of the Black experience!
Using medication and dye, John Howard Griffin, darkened his skin, and took on the role of a black man while traveling through the deep South for a month.
His goal -- to learn for himself what it is like.
He lasted little more than a month, during November and December of 1959, until he could stand the hopelessness no longer.His experience, and the subsequent book, brought about a firestorm of criticism, argument, and discussion around the nation, and undoubtedly played no small part in our civil rights movement.
Actual Ratings: 4.5
Some people claim that if we want to know about African Americans' living conditions, we should actually read books written by African American writers.
J'ai également appris beaucoup notamment sur les différences qu'il pouvait y avoir entre les Etats dans le Sud. L'épilogue est un compte-rendu très important des conséquences de cette expérience et puis de tous les événements des Civil Rights Movement.
Il était inclus dans les deux communautés peu importe la couleur de sa peau.
There is a bit of irony in that since one of the things he seem to say too many of the cities who hired him was that they should consult with local blacks about racial problems although he was a white man from another location with no local expertise.Maybe white people in 1959 didn't understand what it was like to live as a black person.
I should point out that he uses the term Negro.It is amazing that the man wrote a book and made something of a career out of a seven week experience.
What a powerful and moving read. What the author did, a white man who darkened his skin using medication, becoming a black man and travelling to the Deep South to experience what life would be like, is truely remarkable.
During the 1950's, John Howard Griffin, an upper class white man, took medication to darken his skin so that he could experience life as an African American male in the South. In this fascinating memoir, he reveals the injustices he encountered. I read this book many years ago, but think that in many ways, it unfortunately is still relevant today.
I have been trying to write a review of the fascinating journal of what life really was like for blacks in the south during the 1950's before the Civil Rights Act. I may write more later but think you get how much I loved this book by my status updates and comments to GR friends.
If interested in what it was and in some respects still is in the south as a black person, this is a must read.
Do yourself a favor and get this book and read it.
I read this as a kid in Texas in the early '70s and found it absolutely riveting.
I suspect the reviewers who are annoyed that Griffin is so admired are much younger.
For a white man to "cross over" in the Deep South in 1959 was truly brave; remember, he didn't necessarily understand exactly how he should act with white people, which put him in danger.
This in no way negates or minimizes the danger that black people lived with every day, but for Griffin to knowingly and willingly take it on was remarkable.
As the afterword states, this is a work of radical empathy. I had my doubts but it is stunning.
Or, you know, after you read a book like this you start thinking it's possible they didn't make us read it because, well, they're racist and this might give us the wrong idea.
I want this to be long dead history and yet there's an entirely possible chance that some of the 20-year-old hate-filled white men in the story are still alive.
That's how powerful Griffin's story was - of course I've known racist people, but it just seemed like one person's problem.
Except, if a white man decided to turn himself black in order to study black people, then went back to white society, he'd be called Rachel Dolezal and be accused of wearing blackface and perpetrating appropriation.
Fun fact: My dad was raised in Pennsylvania and remembers a time where all these white men would put on blackface and it was a whole fun party.
The obsession with a black man ravishing a white woman is still around.Also, his spiel on nature versus nurture.
If you place anyone in adversity, they're going to turn out exactly how, stereotypically, black people come out in the ghetto.
The patient was an older black man.
I remember being shocked and thinking he would never speak that way to a white man.My son's friend was working for me.
He was a young black man and very darked skinned.
My friend just happened to know there was paint at the store and he was going to try to steal it?
Once when we working at a new development I stopped and parked at the side of the road to look at a map before going to the next place.
The young man was in the car with me.
The severity of my discrimination does not compare to the discrimination that Griffin voluntarily experienced during the time of his experiment in the Deep South.
He first started with taking the drugs to causes his skin to turn dark, then he threw himself into the Deep South as a Black man.
Then he went to Mississippi just after there was a big court issue involving a black man.
There is a division of his fame, he is either seen as a hero for wanting to help blacks or he is seen as a disrespectful white for going against his own race.
It will forever be one of the most important books of my life.
It’s a really fascinating true account of a white man who shaved his head and darkened his skin to live like a black man, back in 1959.
He was forced to sit at the back of the bus when traveling from Louisiana to Mississippi, and at the rest stop the bus driver only let the whites get off to use the restroom, but the blacks couldn’t leave.
But having him, a white man, explain the situation from a position of empathy, caused people to listen more closely.The essay at the end of the book, where Griffin lays out his reflections on race, was excellent.
What did surprise me was the amount of planning or thought that might go into a day, for a Black person at that time, to plan out where to eat, where to buy a drink, where to use the restroom since negro cafes and the like were not easy to find.
The version of the book that I read also had Mr. Griffin's commentary years later, and then a short biography, which was wonderful.
Mr. Griffin has had a life I would like to read more about.
I would like to read some of his other works.
