https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/216422.The_Last_Command
A trilogy that evolved in a wise way.  But it was so artistically done.  HOW A TRILOGY SHOULD BE Maybe how a trilogy should be it’s that all three parts would be the same as good. I am sure nobody would mind about that.However, if perfection isn’t in the equation, I think that a wise approach is constructing a solid first part, not necessarily extraordinary, but with great potential to become better and introducing interesting new characters. Then, having a second part involving a bigger scope
I don’t know, maybe some voodoo curse, or something!) but it’s almost inevitable after two good movies, having a failure in the third movie.
My objection falls in making a comedy-like battle of primitive almost-naked care bears against profesional trained armored-suited soldiers.In any case, we could have an eternal discussion if Return of the Jedi is as good as its two previous installments.The same kind of arguments, I’m sure, since I have no doubt there must be many readers who consider that all three books in the Thrawn Trilogy deserved a full 5-stars rating.
Strictly speaking, the poster of the original Star Wars movie does not have too much in common with the last book of the trilogy except for the settings and main heroes, but my child self really loved it when I saw it first.
The main heroes desperately try to save the situation while being pursued by even more powerful forces than Thrawn and his resurrected Empire.
Once I accepted that the main surviving heroes from the movies do not feel like themselves in the books it was a smooth sailing.
Other overused tropes that I will not discuss also show up.The final rating for the book is 3.5 stars.
It was of a similar quality to the previous two books in the series and satisfactorily wrapped up the main ongoing plot arcs.
On the plus side Thrawn was back to his best in this book.
Thrawn, Karrde, and Mara Jade continue to be more entertaining than the characters from the original movies.
I'll read more from the now defunct Star Wars EU just to read more about them.
Rating 3 stars.Audio Note: Mark Thompson did a fantastic job with this full series.
The sound effects also helped to give the audio book a real Star Wars feel.
Same review for all three: I grew up on Lucas' film trilogy; it took on a certain mythological quality.
Say what you will about Lucas: I won't apologize for this enjoyment.
When the first horn blasts of that John Williams score strike, I wear that nerdy shame with all of its lightsaber-wielding pride.And Zahn pulls off a follow-up trilogy just well enough to pass.
It moves along at a fair-enough pace, pays respect to the "classic" characters while introducing some well-executed new ones, and honors canon well enough that it won't raise the hackles of the rabid fan.High literature, it is not.
A decent enough lightweight read for an unashamed Star Wars fan, it is.
Really enjoyable and fitting closure to the Thrawn trilogy, and Mara Jade's dilemma.
The audiobook performance really elevated the story-telling, which was otherwise fairly predictable.
Luke and Leia both come across as being too nice and bland sometimes, which thankfully was tempered by more interesting characters like Han, Chewie, Lando, Talon Karrde and his smugglers, even the Noghri, and of course, Thrawn - one of the most impressive antagonists I've read to date.
What I liked most from these books is the expansion of the Star Wars galaxy from the beloved movies while maintaining the nostalgia with the characters that made it special.
Awesome ending to an awesome trilogy (and we finally get some great jedi vs. jedi action). This is a great series of books, but I will reiterate what I said in an earlier review: If you can get your hands on the Marc Thompson narrated audiobooks for this series I highly recommend it. It takes this trilogy from a series of great Star Wars stories and elevates it to an epic Star Wars experience.
Rather then ending the Thrawn Trilogy with a whimper, Timothy Zahn saves the best for The Last Command!With Darth Vader and Emperor Palpatine gone, the New Republic was supposed to usher in a golden age of peace.
But even if Luke manages to save the galaxy, he may never get to see the results of his work, since Mara Jade has vowed to fulfill the Emperor's last command and kill Luke Skywalker...Like many people my age, I grew up loving Star Wars, but in more recent years, it became harder and harder to remember why.
“The Thrawn Trilogy” is the most common answer to the question “Which Star Wars books should I start with?” After finishing this last book in the trilogy, I can understand why.
Even a casual Star Wars fan will enjoy these books.The main issue for me was that the Thrawn character was so interesting, it highlighted the flatness of many of the other characters.
Or perhaps my annoyance with Han and Leia just spilled over and infected the entire New Republic cast of characters.
Four stars for the finale and for the entire trilogy.
I don't know what more I can say about these Star Wars books. They are so enjoyable, well the audios are anyway. This one didn't have as much action as previous ones I've read, but I was still completely into it. The narrator does a great job. His Leia voice could use some work, but everything else is wonderful. I also love it when they use the real Chewy voice. So 4 stars.

A fitting ending to the true sequel trilogy to the original Star Wars movies.
Wow, what an ending... Definitely my favorite out of all three and the last 25% was so action packed! I didn't think there was enough room left at the end of the book for a good conclusion, but Zahn did it. The whole series definitely lives up as a great sequel trilogy to the original movies
I can certainly see why so many fans insisted this trilogy should be cannon, and why there is a new cannon Thrawn book. He's a great character - it is fun to have a non-force character in the Star Wars that is so dominant just because of the way the thinks.I really enjoyed this trilogy, and I will read the new Thrawn book soon.
This review applies to all three of the Thrawn Trilogy novelsIt might not be entirely fair to these books that I first started reading them expecting them to be masterpieces (touted by more than a few people I know as the very best of Star Wars EU fiction), because to be quite honest, I was more disappointed than I was impressed with them.
However, there are several aspects of these books that just irked me the entire way through, and ultimately prevent the series from getting any more than a "read it if you've got nothing else better to read" recommendation from me.The first and biggest problem with the Thrawn Trilogy is the portrayal of the central characters from the original Star Wars films.
Realistically, 2.5 stars, rounded up to 3 because there’s a good villain involved.Well, I am glad to have finished this trilogy.
Kudos to Rich Kelly for the wonderful cover art depicting Grand Admiral Thrawn.
I wish he’d been on the first book cover of the series, giving me a better image of the master-planning Imperial villain.
Is it wrong of me to like Thrawn better than any of the good guys?
And he is by far the most complex character in the trilogy.As I’ve said in reviews of the previous two books, the writing is about the right level for the 10-13 year old crowd.
The closure of the Thrawn plotline in particular was a disappointment, not only predictable, but also cutting down on a big action scene right when things were starting to get interesting.
It's probably not only the fight between good and evil (I've read some comic books from Dark Horse where the line of demarcation is more blurred and the characters more nuanced than the ones Zahn worked with), as the pure adrenalin rush of a fast paced adventure.
4.5 stars. The Thrawn Trilogy, of which this is the final book, set the standard for "non-canon" star wars books and is still among the best in that group. This is a great universe (i.e., star wars) written by an excellent author (i.e., Zahn). The result is a very good read.
After taking way to long to read this book, here's my review of the final volume in Timothy Zahn's beloved Thrawn Trilogy!
I was never a fan of the character of Karrde even at the start of the Thrawn Trilogy, but he was used sparingly in Heir to the Empire, mostly just as a way to flesh out the star wars galaxy.
(hide spoiler)].THE GOOD: When the book focused on the classic characters, Thrawn, or Mara Jade, The Last Command was the epic trilogy capper I wanted it to be.
3.5/5 - Full review at emileereads: http://emileereads.com/blog/2018/4/8/...My review for all 3 Thrawn books is the same; after reading them back to back they kinda blended together.
The thing I loved most was seeing Leia work on her Force abilities even as she continued her job as a politician.
The Leia/Noghri storyline was my favorite, by far.
But I was invested in Leia and her relationship with the Noghri from the beginning, it just seemed like a very Leia-y thing to happen.
Her backstory was wayyyy too glossed over and I kept expecting more from her.)Star Wars diehards can't go wrong with this trilogy, but I don't really see a casual fan making it past the first book.
And it will take the collaboration of long-time enemies to win.NOTE: Spoilers from the previous two novels may appear.I Liked:Another tough section to write as I want to include everything from the previous two novels!In this third book, Zahn steps up the threat of Thrawn by allowing him to capture the Katana fleet and be successful in his takeover of worlds.
Zahn followed up with a nice little win for Thrawn, and now the stakes are truly high and our heroes do have something real to worry over.I've talked endlessly about the characters, Luke, Leia, and Han, so I won't really add anything, other than they are, as always, fabulous.
If you dig Star Wars, don't miss out on these novels.
Grand Admiral Thrawn.
And of course the usual like Han, Chewie, Lando, and the rest.A big cast in a bigger world, and just what I had hoped to find in a tie-in novel.The ending was exactly how I like them: unexpected, yet inevitable.Like many before me have said, Thrawn is the best part about this trilogy, and I will throw in my agreement there.
It is weird that (view spoiler)[his death hit me the hardest of anyone in the trilogy?
(hide spoiler)]Overall, if you're looking for fun Star Wars books, pick these up.
It's been too long for me to identify specific events in each of the three volumes, but I thought I'd post a general review of the trilogy.My favourite thing about the trilogy is Talon Karrde.
He's also urbane; and I liked how he collected the artwork of different species because of what it told him about their cultures.
She's scary at times, but her inner conflict blunts her purpose.
It might not be completely logical or realistic for someone who spent years as the Emperor's Hand, his private assassin, to change sides; but I like that she has good in her, and without the Emperor jerking her around, she chooses to change.
And here, everyone piles up in several places for several huge conflicts, and the arcs for all of the characters emotionally all have pretty nice closers as well.Spoilers for books two and three ahead.Finally, Thrawn’s seemingly all-seeing strategy begins to fail, thanks to some wild cards, including the interference of Leia with the Noghri, and the increasingly erratic Joruus C’baoth, who insists that he, not Thrawn, will rule the new Empire.
Executive Summary: A pretty good end to a pretty good series.Audio book: Once again another excellent job by Marc Thompson making this one a must listen in my opinion. Full Review In the third and final book of the series, Mr. Zahn does a pretty good job wrapping things up. My only main gripe was that for a series called The Thrawn Trilogy, the ending with regards to Admiral Thrawn felt a lot more rushed compared to some of the other story lines.That said, I was happy with the ending. Parts of t
Executive Summary: A pretty good end to a pretty good series.Audio book: Once again another excellent job by Marc Thompson making this one a must listen in my opinion.
In the third and final book of the series, Mr. Zahn does a pretty good job wrapping things up.
It did have the requisite lightsabre duel that was two books in the making.This book seemed to focus a lot more on Talon Karrde, who is probably my favorite new character of the series.
Admiral Thrawn still feels a little too smart to be believable at times, though not nearly as bad as the last book.
Still, as I said before, this is fan fiction at its best.Interestingly, this book was obviously/apparently written before George Lucas worked out the exact identity of the Clone War clones.
That said, either Zahn was extremely lucky or guided by the Force because the few references he makes to stormtroopers and the old clones are ambiguous enough that local fans will give him a bye (and critics won't care).I was wrong about the identity of "Delta Source", but that's because I'm not whatever you call a Star Wars Trekkie.
That said, it's hard not to spoil things in a series/universe as thoroughly documented and analyzed as Star Wars.
Exatamente o tipo de história que eu esperava de um livro de Star Wars. Os personagens já conhecidos dão um baile no leitor ao longo das páginas; os que tiveram pouco destaque nos filmes crescem absurdamente no livro; e os novos personagens são impecáveis - o Thrawn é frio, calculista, inteligente além da conta e acompanhar o raciocínio dele é uma aventura e tanto. Adorei a Trilogia inteira.
The Last Command wrapped up the Thrawn trilogy perfectly. i became highly invested in Mara Jade and Talon Karrde, both beautifully written characters. The book goes out with a bang and leaves none of my questions unanswered.
I don't really know what else to tell you other than I really loved it. This is Star Wars the way it should. If you liked the original trilogy, I can't see you not liking this one. The final part brings the entire trilogy to a great close, it had a great ending though I wouldn't have minded for it to last a little longer. Can't recommend it enough for Star Wars fans.
That's the problem with creating a villain that you try to make a "mastermind genius" you get a character that is an arrogant prick and you don't care about him.Another problem with a story like Star Wars, when it comes to the extended universe...you know very well that the characters are going to make it, and save the day, with nary a scratch.
(granted game of thrones often takes it TOO far...)The Thrawn series is at it's heart a light hearted and I GUESS fun read...I realize that the star wars franchise is not trying to be as deep and complex as other stories.
My complaint is that the author makes characters like the smugglers, and Avs and Thrawn, way to 'mysterious' and trying too hard to be cool and aloof....
The Thrawn Trilogy (which I'll review as one unit) is, I can now agree, one of the few indispensable, and actually really worth reading productions of the EU.
Aside from these major, crucial points, Zahn also fulfills a lot of the lack I personally see in other EU material.
Instead, everything he imagined makes sense, is effective in its context, and much of it has even been put to good use since then (though much of it has also been severely abused).With the Thrawn Trilogy, Zahn set the real EU novels off to an auspicious start.
