https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37451.You_Know_You_Love_Me
this book is so tragic and alternately should be titled, 'a cautionary tale for being brunette, short, academic, and not really a scheming bitch at all.' in a mere 200 pages or so, here is what happens to poor, unfortunate blair: (1) her unfeeling, oblivious mother announces she is getting married to a cheesy perv she's known for 3 months, (2) said wedding is to take place on blair's 17th birthday, (3) oblivious mother asks blair's arch-nemesis serena van der woodsen to be a bridesmaid, (3) mother and stepfather unleash the fact that adolescent stepbrother both exists and will be moving into blair's house with big smelly dog (poor kitty minky!), (4) blair tries repeatedly to lose her virginity to boyfriend nate and is unsuccessful, (5) nate cheats on blair with a freshman, (6) nate is too cowardly (and baked) to man up and break up with her, (7) blair shoplifts a present for nate in an attempt to make him love her; nate never opens the gift, (8) blair spectacularly blows her yale interview, due to the stress of the foregoing events, and (9) blair loses the student film competition.
What am I doing with my life? Why am I reading these? But more importantly, why do I want to read more?
I liked this one slightly more than book 1, although Blair would really be better off without Nate (view spoiler)[ who is so obviously not into her, and cheating on her! (hide spoiler)] And I don't know what is going on with Dan and Serena, but she doesn't seem all that interested in him either. Hopefully Blair and Serena can be friends again though!7 out of 10["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
This book not is the best but is entertaining :)
The end felt too rushed!
Lifestyles of the rich and shameless should be full of partying and good times, but Serena, Blair, Nate, and the not so rich Dan, Jenny, and Vanessa are anything but.
And Vanessa is still hopelessly in love with the ever unaware Dan. Someone gets married, more than a few someone’s may have blown their chance at their dream schools, and some may just be moving on to bigger and better things.You Know You Love Me picks up right where the first Gossip Girl left off and it is just as drama-filled and insane as the first.
In all seriousness, for the age demographic that this is written for, and the information placed throughout the novel, its definitely a hit.Much like I was when I read the first one again after years passing since my first experience with it, I was taken up with the lives of the main characters and instantly drawn in.
I'm also a fan of the Blair and Serena friendship and despite all of the issues that face them, both in the show and in the books, I do so much like seeing them come together, even if its only for a short period of time.
I read this so I could continue to badmouth these books knowing what exactly the problems with them are. You know, with the amount of (cigarette) smoking in these books, especially indoors, these books could not take place now. But then there's Gossip Girl on the internet, but not all the characters appear to have or properly use their cell phones. The time period is a bit bizarre. And the characters are insane. Everyone sort of has the same collection of problems. I don't recommend these books to anyone.
There's so much name-dropping in these books...
Lo mejor de este libro es lo interesante y entretenido que es. Es una historia sin pretensiones, que simplemente está para pasar el rato.No soy fan ni de los personajes ni de las actitudes expuestas en este libro, pero como mínimo me sirve para pasar el rato.

I honestly don't know what I'm doing anymore. Like, these books aren't good (nor remotely close to that), and still I sort of need to keep reading. What for? I don't know either. Its shallow, selfish, vapid characters hold little interest for me. And the narrative style isn't any better, truth be told. As I said in my not-really-a-review of the previous book, this is just a trashy read. Nothing more.
The characters in this were the same as the last one. I didn't love them, and there were quite a few times where they annoyed me. This wasn't a brilliant read, but it was better than the first one.
OMG!! So much drama...I’m loving for the whole Blair Waldorf as a klepto storyline. Such a fun, easy, fast read. I’m hoping to finally finish this entire series of books this year and if they continue to be as camp and cheesy as this was I’m in for some fabulous reading.
These are actually horrible, but I just can't help myself. It's like eating candy. Nothing of substance but you just can't stop.
I know I said I wouldn't continue this series but a friend suggested that I try... so here I am
You Know You Love Me has a lot of twists and turns. It's about a group of people trying to make life perfect of them, and terrible for some. Anyone who likes romance and tragedy, this is the book for you.
I especially enjoyed Nate's inability to break up with Blair, who completely terrifies him.
His lame dodge of her at the wedding will never stop being COMPLETELY AWESOME.I enjoyed the subplot about Serena making a movie with Vanessa.
(Really, it's too bad the show decided not to keep Vanessa at Constance; she could have been a great character (or at least a non-annoying one) with a real place on the show.) This is also the book where Dan/Serena ends for good in the series, which is totally different from the show.
I really didn't like much of this book. From the swearing to the sex, the life these kids led seemed so stupid and useless, just another bunch of dumb superficial teens and their high school lives.
Heerlijk om dit boek 's avonds te luisteren. Soms schrik ik van de woorden die gebruikt worden, aangezien ik nog maar 14 was toen ik het eerste deel las.
Garbage, garbage, garbage, and I love it. Blair's increasingly desperate attempts to get Nate to pay attention to her; Nate and Jenny's sweet but probably ill-fated romance; Serena and Dan's weird relationship, where they each want very different things; the film festival, and the weekend at Brown, and the wedding. All so much fun, all so delicious, and all delightful to read about. I read almost all of this in one sitting, 2 and half hours, in the courtyard at my grandpa's assisted living facility in Pensacola, FL. What a wonderful way to spend the Christmas holiday.
2.5* These books are entertaining, and I'm gonna keep reading them because I don't have to think about them, but none of the characters have any depth at all. A lot of the writing seems like it could be meant to be ironic but I think it's just shallow and not done very well. Really, reading the books is just making me want to watch the show instead.
Wie houd er nou niet van Gossip.
Look, I can admit that these books aren't masterpieces, but damn, I really do enjoy my time reading them.
This book was actually really entertaining. It definitely was better than the first one! But the characters still were really spoiled and stupid, too, at some times. I don't know what I'm doing with my life reading these books, but what I do know is that I still want more ...!
And yet, Cecily von Ziegesar is favoring her over Blair.And why in the world is Blair born in November?
You know, why is almost every main character in some books born in late November?
What is so bad about being a virgin?When will there be a book of a girl who is happy with being a virgin and not trying to lose it, or a non virgin who isn't a whore.Nuff said on that.Blair Waldorf does not have my sympathy.
Biggest fucking bitch ever.Oh, Serena ver Dumbass fucker is no exception, either.
He just backstabs Blair and fucks other people.
I liked how the author; Cecily von Ziegesar portrayed the characters.
Throughout the book it builds up these teenager's path to college.The story starts off with Blair Waldorf and her boyfriend Nate.
Their plan didn't quite work out,because Blair's mother came home with some exciting news----- well to Mrs.Waldorf it was.
The story goes on and it goes to Serena and Dan. Serena was Blair's ex best friend.
I got to see a lot of my life and friends in this book, I saw myself in the character Blair.
I like how the author spends time on real life situations and making her audience relate to her book.
"We all come from the sorts of families and go to the sorts of schools where not applying to the Ivy Leagues is not an option, and not getting into them would be a total embarassment."College interviews, romantic troubles and a fancy wedding photographed for Vogue dominate this second installment of von Ziegesar's frothy but fun series about rich Manhattan prep school kids and the gossip web site tracking their lives.
The plot culminates at the wedding, where the girls' boy troubles come to a head.Fans of "Sex and the City" and "Cruel Intentions" will relish in the likeness of this book, and the characters rich and scandalous lifestyles.
I personally love the Gossip Girl books because they’re short, sweet and full of drama and outrageous events that keeps me hooked.
The whole relationship between Nate and Serena is clearly not a very good one and if I’m honest I think it’s time Dan and Serena called it quits too.
Though a lot of it is just catty drama, the book also focuses on some very real issues that many girls often feel in everyday life that can be very pressing.
Blair is constantly overlooked and put second to her, so the jealousy that she feels makes a lot of sense.
