https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17905709-the-narrow-road-to-the-deep-north
"I shall be a carrion monster, he whispered into the coral shell of her ear, an organ of women he found unspeakably moving in its soft, whorling vortex, and which always seemed to him to be an invitation to adventure." I guess I'm inviting haters and trolls by reviewing this much-loved Booker Prize winner, but the eye rolls started somewhere halfway through chapter one and they just wouldn't stop.It makes me feel bad saying this about a book which was clearly inspired by the author's father's o
I guess I'm inviting haters and trolls by reviewing this much-loved Booker Prize winner, but the eye rolls started somewhere halfway through chapter one and they just wouldn't stop.It makes me feel bad saying this about a book which was clearly inspired by the author's father's own experiences on the Burma death railway.
Or perhaps I'm just jealous and wish I had wondrous nipples; I didn't realise it was something I was missing out on until now.Then there's Dorrigo Evans who, despite the flowery language and metaphors floating around, feels like a Gary Stu worthy of some YA books I've read.
I received this book for free from Bookworld in exchange for an honest review.This book...
I often had to stop mid-sentence and contemplate everything; this book, people, life.
He has such a way with words - his style is so unassuming, but then I find myself needing to take a step back from the book and just breathe for a moment.
Every single character is illustrated so vividly, and in such a short amount of time, that I found myself empathising with people that seem to have no sense of humanity.
Stunning.
Absolutely stunning.
One of the best books I have read.
Full review HERE
Beware Richard Flanagan’s new novel, “The Narrow Road to the Deep North.” His story about a group of Australian POWs during World War II will cast a shadow over your summer and draw you away from friends and family into dark contemplation the way only the most extraordinary books can.
Nothing since Cormac McCarthy’s “The Road” has shaken me like this — all the more so because it’s based on recorded history, rather than apocalyptic speculation.A finalist for this year’s Man Booker Prize, “The Narrow Road to the Deeper North” portrays a singular episode of manic brutality: imperial Japan’s construction of the Thailand-Burma Death Railway in the early 1940s.
I've read it. I'm in awe. But now I don't want to talk about it ever again.
Καταραμένο μονοπάτι.Γραμμή σιδηροδρόμου που ξεκινάει απο τον πόλεμο, περνάει μέσα απο ανθρώπινες ψυχές,φορτώνει φρίκη και πόνο, καταπίνει βασανιστήρια ανδρών,διασχίζει ζούγκλες γεμάτεςλάσπη,αίμα,πληγές,βρόμα,μούχλα,σκοτάδι.Συνεχίζει,μέσα σε μια τεράστια ακατάληπτη φυλακή για σκλάβους αιχμάλωτους πολέμου που παλεύουν το ανέφικτο.
Μεταφέρει αρρώστιες που σαπίζουν και εξαθλιώνουν.Σταματάει για λίγο,οι σκλάβοι λιγοστεύουν,πονάνε,πεινάνε,παραμορφώνονται, τσακίζονται,καταρρέουν.
Μια επανάληψη αναμνήσεων και πράξεων μέσα στο πλήρωμα του χρόνου.
Στο μονοπάτι των Αυστραλών δεν υπάρχουν νικητές και νικημένοι.
Σε αυτό το μονοπάτι σέρνονται άνθρωποι ίδιοι που πρέπει να συνεχίσουν τη διαδρομή, σιωπηλά,εξοντωτικά και ασυνείδητα μέχρι τη λύτρωση, μέχρι την καρδιά της συνείδησης.
Ο έρωτας, η παθιασμένη σχέση,η αγάπη, το μαρτύριο του απαγορευμένου που βασανίζει,αποκαλύπτει και απολαμβάνει την ουσία της ύπαρξης.
now, like Schindler (from another Booker Award-winning novel by an Australian), he’s having to choose what prisoners get to live and die; now he’s living with the AFTERMATH OF ALL OF THE ABOVE• multiple shifts (in perspective): okay, there’s our main protagonist/lover/war hero/conflicted family man, Dorrigo Evans; there’s also his band of soldiers, who sport hearty names like Darky Gardiner, Sheephead Morton and Tiny Middleton and each have one characteristic that makes them stand out; oh yeah, plus we get to see through the beady eyes of the villainous, sadistic Japanese captors and a Korean guard, who of course all turn out to have their own fears and prejudices.
I turned the last page marveling at Mr. Flanagan’s skill and agreeing with historian Barbara Tuchman that, “Without books, history is silent, literature dumb, science cripples, thought and speculation at a standstill.” The Narrow Road is based on an actual event: the building of the Thai-Burma death railway in 1943 by POWs commanded to the Japanese.
"Why at the beginning of things is there always light?" My head is full of a plethora of thoughts that, somehow, need to find their way into a text? Or do they? Probably not. This must be one of the most difficult reviews I have chosen to write and this is not a cliche. It's reality. Difficult because how can one possibly describe the horrors brought about by monsters in one of the darkest eras of History that, sadly seems not too far away or lost in time? Difficult because love and pain and lo
We failed to form any kind of connection.Dorrigo Evans is a surgeon in the Australian Army during the nightmare of the Second World War. He and his regiment are now prisoners of war in a Japanese camp in Burma and the plague is quickly descending.
When I was reading Amy's POV, I was thinking that Flanagan had reserved the most beautiful language in this novel for her.
What I felt as a reader was that these characters weren't interesting enough to turn my mind away from Dorrigo and Amy's fate.
In addition, the part of the book set after the end of the war felt slow, flat and melodramatic.There were two things I deeply appreciated in the novel.
The history - of a railroad being built in the deep jungles of Java.
Built by POWs with their bare hands as they staved off disease, starvation and brutal beatings.
The disruption and destruction of war: on the soldiers, their families; their lives.It is a story of survival.
Surviving the brutal ordeal of being captured and held prisoner in the deep, dark and dank jungle.
The heart breaking triumph of stealing food that only makes one ill.The devastation of war and the costs and sacrifices made.And the hope to find the world again with the goodness that once existed.This was one intense and difficult read.
It gets incredibly gratuitous at times, and while I don't mind darkness and violence in historical fiction that warrants it, I did feel like the author was trying to use shock value and repulsive, minute detail as a too-easy way to lend power and gravity to the book.
Some of my favorite books wade just as deep into the horror of human experience (A Fine Balance comes immediately to mind) but with a complex beauty, too, which (in my humble, and clearly unpopular opinion) renders those works more authentic power and depth.
It’s a grim work, centred on the experiences of the Australian prisoners of war who were used as slave labour in the construction of the Thailand-Burma railway during World War II.
In writing the novel, Flanagan drew on the experiences of his father, a survivor of that horrific ordeal, and the public life of his central protagonist is clearly inspired by that of the legendary Weary Dunlop.
The narrative moves back and forward in time and is mostly from the point of view of Dorrigo Evans, an Australian surgeon whose life is shaped by a love of literature, by an early, passionate affair with his uncle’s wife and by his wartime experiences.
"For an instant he thought he grasped the truth of a terrifying world in which one could not escape horror, in which violence was eternal, the great and only verity, greater than the civilizations it created, greater than any god man worshipped, for it was the only true god.
For the world did not change, this violence had always existed and would never be eradicated, men would die under the boot and fists and horror of other men until the end of time, and all human history was a history of violence."While reading this powerful novel about the Australian POWs during World War II, I couldn't help but fall victim to the same dark sentiment expressed above.
I was surprised to find my mind working at two levels.
One level drew shudders - the ulcerated limbs, the beri-beri attacks, the cholera ridden bodies, the virulent lashes, the shitty camps, the fatal frostbites; their strangling hold was so difficult to visualize that I found myself keeping the book away several times to just get my hands and mind steady.
Knowing somewhere at the back of my mind that this story is weaved with the solid knots of the author’s father’s first-hand experience of war days, didn’t help either.
However the other level drew comfort.
*Be warned, some spoilers ahead*Dorrigo Evans is the protagonist of this dramatic novel; an Australian surgeon who serves in WWII and is finally captured by the Japanese and sent to Burma as a prisoner of a labor camp to assemble a railway that will connect Bangkok with Yangon.
Later I knew 'the Railway' was another line far away in the jungles of Asia, the horrors of the building of which were linked to the game-changing conflict that figured so hugely in the life of both my old man and Ray. Nothing of' 'the Railway' ever featured in my father's stories, told to me perched on his knee – that wasn't part of his war- as were the battles in Palestine and the Western Desert.
And without her, his life felt to him no longer any life at all.Death is senseless, pitiless and it knows no quarter… Grim Reaper harvests indiscriminately…It was a fabled railway that was the issue of desperation and fanaticism, made as much of myth and unreality as it was to be of wood and iron and the thousands upon thousands of lives that were to be laid down over the next year to build it.
It is a factory of death.Necks, continued Colonel Kota, looking away to where an open door framed the rainswept night.
The 2014 Booker prize-winning story is powerful, harrowing and a quite difficult read but a book that will stay with me for a long time.In the despair of a Japanese POW camp on the Burma Death Railway, surgeon Dorrigo Evans is haunted by his love affair with his uncle's young wife two years earlier.
This is a book that affects the reader on many levels, the writing is descriptive and real, the sense of time and place terrific and all the characters, even the minor ones are beautifully written.
The prose was flat, mundane, the love story was pedestrian and could probably be bested by many Harlequin romance novels, and the war imagery, while horrific, has been done (and kept provoking memories of the movie Bridge on the River Kwai, accompanied by the ear-worm whistling of the Coloney Bogey march). Unsatisfying and disappointing.
A great book compels you to reread your own soul."Focusing on a surgeon, officer, and reluctant war hero called Dorrigo Evans in order to describe the experiences of both Australian POWs and Japanese army servicemen in the construction of the Thai-Burma "Death Railway" in 1943, it may seem that it goes without saying that this book is not for the faint-hearted, but that is quite a considerable understatement.
Flanagan’s challenge here is to give literary form to the horrors of war, without resorting to despair or simple us-versus-them dichotomies.
Japanese death poems and Tennyson’s “Ulysses” weave through as refrains, and the language is lyrical even when describing atrocities: corpses are “drying dark-red meat and fly-blown viscera.” As the poem by Issa used as an epigraph reads, “In this world / we walk on the roof of hell / gazing at flowers” – finding whatever shards of beauty and love we can, even in nightmarish circumstances.(Flanagan’s father, a survivor of the Burma Death Railway, died on the day Flanagan finished writing this novel.)See my full review at The Bookbag.
These were beautiful additions and a much needed respite from the overwhelming gruesomeness of war that is portrayed here .The power of this story for me rests in Flanagan's clear and perfect writing both in the explicit details of the horrors of a WWII prison camp and the just beautiful language telling us of Dorrigo's passionate love affair with his uncle's wife .
There is a blending of past and present rather than a chronological unfolding of events even though most of the book is focused on the war and his time at the Japanese prison camp .
"In trying to escape the fatality of memory, he discovered with an immense sadness that pursuing the past inevitably only leads to greater loss." To me, these questions and thoughts are excellent illustrations of why no form of art is better able to touch us than fiction: provoking contemplation and memories, and reviving the feelings and the sensations from one's past.
Without reading fiction, we may never be called on to face certain parts of our past and to focus on the mistakes we made, the feelings we had, the true intrinsic value of our personal histories.
This novel has as its heart and soul a male character called Dorrigo Evans who becomes the surgeon and commanding officer at a Japanese POW camp of Australian soldiers.
He is haunted (though not sustained) by his love for his uncle’s young wife, Amy. To my mind the relentlessly overwritten character of Dorrigo was what let this novel down.
He’s trying way too hard to write an epic (the awful film Australia sprang to mind for which Flanagan wrote the script).
Just as he strains in his love scenes so too does Flanagan strain when trying to evoke the horror.
The abominations that were inflicted on Australian POWs and ‘slaves’ on the Burma Railway in WW2 are as sickening as anything that happened in a medieval dungeon or I imagine (shudder) in cave-man days.The good thing is Flanagan’s magnificent, memorable book, which should be required reading for anyone ever tempted to use the phrase “the glories of war”.
It's not so much a novel to read as much as one you crawl inside and experience.
Richard Flanagan not only made me feel the suffering and the humanity of the Australian men laboring as slaves to build an impossible railway line in the middle of the jungle, while starving, diseased, beaten, tortured, and dying in great numbers; he went so far as to try to explain the beliefs of the Japanese officers who condoned the treatment for the glory of the Emperor.Two quotes from the book, out of many that I highlighted:"Life wasn't about ideas.
Life was only about getting the next footstep right.""In this worldwe walk on the roof of hellgazing at flowers."I read this book as a download on my Kindle, but I'm going to buy a copy to put on my shelf.
I feel I'm being generous with 2 stars here and it's probably only because I feel guilty that I'm not more moved by the plight of Australian POWs who were forced to build the Burmese railway.
There is only one word to describe this book: boring.
I wish I could adequately describe the many failings of this book but I fear it's just too far gone to even begin; I didn't care about his smelling women's backs, or his affair which felt flat, and everybody in the camp just spent the entire book slowly dying but at least they all did it in different ways.
I struggled with this one.
It started well even though I totally disliked the main character Dorrigo Evans.
I was coping with the constant jumping around in time and I was even dealing with the lack of quotation marks around speech.
Then we got bogged down in the POW section.
It is well documented and we have all seen documentaries and movies and read other books about it.
This book did not so much tell the story as wallow in it.
It could have been such a good book but to me it wasn't.
I was writing a comment that I realized would probably end up being long enough to qualify as at least a half-assed review-like sumthin-r-nuther, so why not slap those words up here instead of down there?
It was the month of March's book club title, and I was feeling a little unsure about it at first, daunted by the length (I thought it was over 600 pages, long story) and all the roooooomance promised in the description.
Hopefully, though, I'll like the book better this month because it's being culled from my selections.
The Australian POWs were forced into slave labor to build the Burma Railway Line, or the "Death Railway." In other words, the Japanese "spirit" here was to crown the Emperor with this rail line, no matter if they had to beat, starve, and impose the most horrifying living conditions on the POWs. However, Flanagan nuanced his historical novel, a true masterpiece, with a number of contradictions within the book, often philosophical contradictions, and the title seems to be in the timbre of Flanagan's purposeful incongruities.
Based on the 8% I read, Flanagan has inherited all of McCarthy's bad qualities, and none of his good ones.
If you think these passages exemplify good writing, then you will probably love this book.
However, if you find yourself chortling, then I wouldn't be shocked if you abandoned this book like I did, or wish bitterly that you had."Shisui's poem rolled through Dorrigo Evans' subconscious, a contained void, an endless mystery, lengthless breadth, the great wheel, eternal return: the circle--anithesis of the line." [I've practiced Buddhism for 25 years now, and I don't find this sentence profound, just pretentious.]"He happily slept without women.
