https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1321926.The_Tokyo_Zodiac_Murders
The Tokyo Zodiac Murders by Soji Shimada was born under the Sun Sign Aries in 1981; its original name is Senseijutsu Satsujinjiken, which can be roughly translated as "Zodiac Murder Magic".
Those born Aries are Cardinal signs whose element is Fire; they are ruled by Mars.
At first, this appears to be the case with Tokyo Zodiac Murders, which details the murder and dismemberment of seven women, all related, all apparently murdered according to their nefarious father's demented plan.
Perhaps the killer within Tokyo Zodiac Murders should have sought to create more balance when engaging with its Mars nature!This reader was born under the Sun Sign Virgo.
As a whodunit puzzle, it is a very well structured plot, with a locked room scenario questioning how a killer committed a murder and then escaped from a room locked on the inside.
There are multiple clues and multiple red-herrings in the detail, but sifting through is a real puzzle and challenge for the reader.Let me set the scene.
The plan introduces alchemy, astrology and geography, defined in great detail, especially at the start of the book.
Enjoy the puzzle, it is a very unique and interesting plot.
A few days later the six daughters are also killed and their bodies chopped up, per Umezawa’s plan.
While I enjoyed the first half, it’s a bit artlessly written - the Holmesian Mitarai and the Watson-esque Ishioka are literally sat in a room telling the reader through their discourse the details of the crime.
I didn’t hate the novel because the first half effortlessly held my attention but it’s not a great detective story for the weak conclusion.
Still, The Tokyo Zodiac Murders isn’t a bad creepy mystery story that some crime fans might enjoy.
“The Tokyo Zodiac Murders,” is the first of over two dozen novels featuring Kiyoshi Mitarai and is written in the popular Japanese Honkaku subgenre of mysteries; very much focused on plotting and clues and where the reader is drawn into participating in solving the crime before the detective.
There are delightful digressions into other subjects, such as the novels of Sherlock Holmes, and dashes across the country to follow up clues; as well as exhortations from the author himself to try to beat the fictional detectives and solve the crime.This is a charming read and the Pushkin Vertigo series looks very promising indeed.
I am reading this for "Locked Room Mystery": The Tokyo Zodiac Murders by Soji Shimada.
But wow the author Soji Shimada is able to pretty much show you that murder is murder no matter where it takes place.This book is broken into two time periods.
Who could have decided to follow Umezawa's plan?When we are back in1979 we follow two amateur detectives (Kiyoshi Mitari and Kazumi Ishioka) our Sherlock and Dr. Watson if you will.
Just like Sherlock, Mitari is subject to depression, and Kazumi is hoping that the puzzle of the Tokyo Zodiac Murders will drag him out of his depression.
This is my second novel where the author challenge readers explicitly to guess the culprit. The first one is The Egyptian Cross Mystery. And coincidentally this novel is my first Soji Shimada's novel that I've ever read. After read this novel, I wish there are other Soji Shimada's novel translated into English.Highly recommended for readers who want to guess the culprit. Although I found some minor clues seems useful if the reader knows pop-culture of Japanese at mid 1930 era, but the essence of the trick is a classic for me.
The author Soji Shimada, has been known to readers as The King Of Dismemberment in the realm of Japanese crime/detective novels, it is his first long detective novel and it is damn impressive (the story has its flaws, but I'm still impressed).I look forward to re-read this book some day.
With the help of his friend, a fan of detective fiction, he tries to do what so many have attempted and failed over the a 40-year period of time.An amazing book, one that will totally occupy you as you read.
The characterization is very well done, the writing is excellent, and the mystery itself (not to mention the solution) is nothing like I've ever read before.
Also, if alchemy and astrology aren't your thing, then you may want to skip it.An excellent mystery -- I enjoy finding these little gems now and then.
Quoted from ‘The Tokyo Zodiac Murders’:“FOREWORDTo the best of my knowledge, the case of the serial murders which took place in Japan in 1936 - popularly known as ““The Tokyo Zodiac Murders”” - is one of the most peculiar and most elusive mysteries in the history of crime........Readers may like to attempt to unravel the puzzle themselves, just as we - my good friend Kiyoshi Mitarai and I - set out to do on that fateful day in the spring of 1979.I can assure you that I have included all the necessary clues - the same clues we had to work with.Kazumi Ishioka”Kiyoshi Mitarai is the Sherlock Holmes of this Japanese novel and Kazumi Ishioka is his Watson.
When Raymond Chandler wrote his somewhat disparaging essay on mystery novels, perhaps he hadn't been exposed to works by writers such as Shimada.For the ingenuity, meta jabs and the evocation of a bygone era where 'crime solving' was not all CSI and procedurals, 5 stars.
Even though I'm privy to the gist of the trick because of that, this was still greatly entertaining, and I can't wait to read the rest of his novels.PS: I read the Mandarin translation while comparing it to the English and Japanese kindle samples that I've got.
4 saoTruyện hấp dẫn, tình tiết ly kỳ nhưng nói về điểm không thích thì cũng không ít: đoạn đầu đọc khá chán, khô khan, hơi nhiều chi tiết và nhân vật (mà thật ra cũng không đóng vai trò gì quan trọng cho lắm ngoài làm cho sách rối rắm thêm và tốn nhiều thời gian đọc.)Đoạn điều tra cũng khá hay, nhưng kết thúc làm mình hơi thất vọng.
Вчера приключих "Зодиакалните убийства" и това което мога да кажа е - УАУ!
Макар да почна малко трудно, заради ситния шрифт и форматирането, мистерията не ме пусна до последната страничка.
Приятно се изненадах от предизвикателствата, които Шимада Соджи ми предостави, като това ме мотивира сам да разгадая мистерията.
Уви, непосилна задача за мен.
С нетърпение чаках края на книгата, където мистерията ще бъде разгадана.
Четях със зейнала уста и осъзнавах как отговорът през цялото време е бил пред самия мен.
За това и звездичките ще бъдат пет, заради умелия начин по който Соджи успя да ме заблуди.
И не само мен!
Dan, di awalan saya sudah dibuat pusing mencerna segala keterkaitan zodiac, unsur alkali korban-korban yang akan dirancang sebagai karya 'sempurna' bernama Azoth.Berlanjut dengan bagian analisa kasus tak terpecahkan #TheTokyoZodiacMurders antara Kiyoshi dan Kazumi.
Tapi, di bagian ini juga sangat berpotensi menjadi bab yang membosankan terutama untuk pembaca yang menyukai aksi.Sejak membaca salah satu bagian mutilasi setiap korban hilang, kepala saya terbayang sebuah kasus dari komik #DetektifKindaichi versi klasik, jadinya dari awal bayangan tersangka pembunuhnya sudah ada.
Hanya saja saya dibuat bingung dengan apa hubungan segala hal berbau zodiac dan muatan alkali tanah pekuburan masing-masing korban.Membaca proses penyelidikannya terasa berputar-putar dan ternyata berujung pada kesia-siaan yang melelahkan.
Practically unreadable - the first part is a sick piece of murderous misogyny, the rest - a too-long conversation between two people trying to solve a closed-room murder mystery 40 years after the fact, by meticulously dismantling inch after inch of the technical details of the murder. This you cannot possibly follow unless you have a phenomenal memory and an unlikely level of tolerance for boredom. Sorry, quitting now, before it's too late and I drown in an ocean of mind-numbing technicalities.
With this novel, Shimada-san has managed to fortuitously undertake his flair for a straightforward, yet puzzling storytelling technique which was aimed to perpetually put up the readers' minds, making them guessing who the culprit was, that has perpetrated murders of all the six women, each one with a different zodiac sign, resulted from an unsolved criminal case done about forty years ago that has caused such a huge notion all across Japan.
Shimada-san proved that he could write an impressive first detective fiction, bringing a breath of fresh air to a seemingly formulaic genre, in terms of narrating method, telling the world that detective stories still have enough innovations, to keep the genre alive and interesting for years still to come.
This is the first book I've ever read where the author actually tells you all the clues are out there, and challenges you to solve the mystery. I was not able to figure it out but looking back, I can see where you would be able to. I'm hoping Mr. Shimada has had more of his "locked room" mysteries translated. I want to try and solve another!
If you can make it through the exceedingly dry first third of this puzzler, the rest of this book is a real treat. I did figure "who dunnit" and more or less how before the big reveal but that did not in any way lessen my pleasure in this clever mystery. Bonus points for setting the much of the latter two-thirds of the book in picturesque Kyoto. Recommended for those who like old-fashioned locked room mysteries.
Thank goodness I got it right away because it took me the entire month to read it!The opening 35 pages were a letter written in 1936 by the murderer stating that he wanted to create the perfect woman by killing six women (daughters and nieces), using parts of their bodies based on their astrological signs to cobble together a woman he called Azoth.
I also loved the introduction to another culture, another way of thinking, more info about Japan, and a glimpse into how Japanese mystery writers approach telling their story – very different from what I usually read.
I love how the author actually challenge the readers to find the killer.
That whiny and impatient Kazumi and seriously too secretive Kiyoshi embarking on a journey to find the culprit just because of a letter by the late Bunjiro Takegoshi.
A very exceptional mystery--who and how until the last chapter making me so nervous and as impatient as Kazumi.
Applause to Kiyoshi for at last could answer the puzzle, though it was still mysterious to me on how he could possibly have a thought like that.Unexpected ending and I really appreciate how the killer wrote the letter and explaining the details.
Tapi ternyata dalam catatan ini sendiri (ternyata) tersimpan banyak sekali petunjuk untuk mengetahui siapa sebenarnya pelaku pembunuhan-pembunuhan itu, yang by the way tetap tak terpecahkan, hingga masa 40 tahun kemudian saat seorang detektif amatir dan nyentrik bersama rekannya yang penuh semangat dan keingintahuan (very close enough to the characters of Holmes and Watson nampaknya yah) mendapat sebuah dokumen yang berkaitan dengan kasus tersebut yang membuat mereka pada akhirnya berusaha memecahkan kasus ini.Well, membaca novel ini membutuhkan konsentrasi dan daya ingat yang lumayan kuat, karena berbagai kejadian yang terjadi serta banyaknya tokoh yang terlibat.
Un must per gli amanti di camere chiuse, indizi, enigmi, tabelle, piantine. Una vera sfida al lettore, con l'autore che, stile Ellery Queen, per ben due volte interrompe la narrazione per chiamarci in causa. Al secondo messaggio dell'autore, pag. 257, avevo già capito chi era il colpevole, soprattutto grazie alla domanda posta da Shimada. Un indizio che fra l'altro poi non viene nemmeno spiegato nella narrazione, probabilmente perché a un giapponese sarebbe apparso fin troppo ovvio. Più complicata, invece, tutta la faccenda dei corpi e di Azoth. Lì è più semplice capire i disegni che le spiegazioni.
Một câu chuyện hết sức nhạt nhẽo.
Mình thật không hiểu lý do vì sao nó nổi tiếng và là best-seller.Tiền đề của vụ án, với câu chuyện về Azoth nghe khá hấp dẫn.
Nhưng câu chuyện có quá nhiều chi tiết thừa, quá nhiều nhân vật không cần thiết.
Tác giả để nhân vật mất rất nhiều thời gian loanh quanh lạc lối, rồi cuối cùng chỉ mất 2 tiếng đồng hồ để giải quyết bí ẩn 40 năm.
Phi lý!
:))Nói chung, mình thấy nếu là trinh thám Nhật thì chỉ nên đọc sách của Keigo tiên sinh :))
Ranked #3 in the 2012 Tozai Mystery List (https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tozai...), this book is extremely popular in Japan. It is a locked-room mystery (in part) and a logic-puzzlemwhere ALL the clues are given to the reader in advance. I found it rather dry and not terribly interesting.
Chưa xem Kindaichi :vVẻ huyền bí của chiêm tinh học và thiên văn học mang đến sự hấp dẫn kì lạ cho những vụ án mạng trong quyển sách này.
A brilliantly constructed fair-play puzzle mystery, with two armchair detectives solving a set of murders from 40 years before. I never saw the clever ending coming. The only turn-off for me was the level of gore, but the violence took place off stage.
I wasn't to sire of this when I started it because it seemed to real but I'm glad I stuck with it. It took me awhile to figure out who the killer was.
Then in 1979, Kazumi Ishioka, an illustrator and mystery addict, and his friend, Kiyoshi Mitarai, astrologer and fortune teller, decide to launch their own investigation into the murders.
It starts off with Heikichi's creepy autobiography, and then his story and murder are dissected by Kazumi and Kiyoshi.
This is follow by some interviews and a great deal more talking between Kazumi and Kiyoshi before the crimes are solved.
You never really get to know any of the victims very well except for Heikichi, whose autobiography starts off the book, and he's hardly someone you'd want to know.
Художникът Умедзава Хейкичи решава да създаде перфектната жена.
Хейкичи подробно описва как смята да извърши всяко едно от убийствата – ръководен от строг астрологичен порядък.
Шестте момичета наистина умират по начина описан от него, но има една съществена пречка за намирането на убиеца.
Разследването показва, че никой от близките на семейството няма мотив и всеки един от тях разполага с алиби.
Въпреки това предполагам, че много от вас все още не са успели да я разрешат (все пак никой в Япония не го беше постигнал в рамките на повече от 40 години.)” Ще разочаровам автора, но разбрах кой е убиецът преди още 100 страници.
*SujudSyukur* #NARIPERUTMembeli buku ini tanpa melihat reviewnya di goodreads.
Ini buku terjemahan dan belum banyak goodreaders indonesia yang baca.
Saya pribadi memang penyuka buku jenis ini.
Kisah-kisah detektif itu ending dan ceritanya nggak bisa ketebak, that's why I like it!Konon kabarnya Pembunuhan Zodiac Tokyo ini kisah nyata.
Saya tidak tahu pasti sih kebenaran kasus ini karena baru tahu setelah baca bukunya.
Menyusul kemudian anak tirinya Kazue Kanemoto, tewas mengenaskan di rumahnya.
Pembunuhan ini tidak ada yang pihak yang bisa mengungkapnya.
Empat puluh tiga tahun kemudian, seorang detektif amatir bernama Kiyoshi Mitarai menemukan pelakunya dan berhasil mengungkap misteri Pembunuhan Zodiak Tokyo.Ceritanya seru, meskipun alurnya lambat...

