https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/275.The_Lover
***AWARDED THE 1984 PRIX GONCOURT***“The story of my life doesn’t exist. Does not exist. There’s never any centre to it. No path, no line. There are great spaces where you pretend there used to be someone, but it’s not true, there was no one.” The young Marguerite DurasShe has pretty hair, copper hair that spools down her back in waves of alluring movement. People always comment on how beautiful her hair is which she interprets to mean that they don’t find her pretty. She cuts her hair off. She
”Hélène Logonelle’s body is heavy, innocent still, her skin’s as soft as that of certain fruits, you almost can’t grasp her, she’s almost illusory, it’s too much….I am worn out with desire for Hélène Logonelle.
”She wasn’t sure that she hadn’t loved him with a love she hadn’t seen because it had lost itself in the affair like water in sand and she rediscovered it only now, through this moment of music flung across the sea.”This book is based on the real life of Marguerite Donnadieu better known as Marguerite Duras.
At fifteen, even when we think we are in love, we can’t know whether it is real.
Yes, I was also there when you met the nameless man while crossing the river going back to Saigon with a storm blowing inside the water.
I will never forget how you looked at our first meeting, my friend, wearing a dress of real silk, the famous pair of gold lame high heels and a man’s flat-brimmed hat, a brownish-pink fedora with a broad black ribbon.
But I remember so well what you said once, I’ve never written, though I thought I wrote, never loved, though I thought I loved, never done anything but wait outside the closed door.So many years have passed us by, leaving their ignoble scars; but we still reminisce all that went when we were almost children.
And her dysfunctional family of European colonizers needed the money.Is “The Lover” the wealthy Chinese man of twenty-seven years of age from Cholen who adores the girl from the distance, concealed behind the tainted windows of his father’s black limousine?
The cultural distance between the local people and the colonizers in French Indochina become the backdrop of a love story that is condemned by history before it even started and the detached irony that drips from the narrator’s voice can’t disguise the desolation that is eating her alive underneath a carefully studied, impassive poise.“The Lover” is a cascade of musical notes delivered in fluid movements, a whirlwind of words repeated like a mantra in breathless cadence and staccatto punctuation .
My full review, as well as my other thoughts on reading, can be found on my blog.An autobiographical story about an affair between a young French girl and a Chinese man, set near Saigon, The Lover wavers between repression and indulgence.
The unnamed French girl's tendency to return to describing a few central images from her past, capturing them from different angles, lends the photographic text a cyclical and erotic quality.
The Lover is more of a harrowing survival narrative than a romance, and Duras's story of her adolescence is well worth reading.
jacobsohn, bought for my final school assignment, i learn how to think about literature:characters and story line: young french girl, older chinese man falling into bed and clinical love without names in indochina.
everything seems muffled by gauze.reader's emotional response: unmoved.
if the author's voice is going to be so removed, and the characters aren't going to feel anything particularly deep, why should i be expected to have emotions?
resentfully.narrative: fragmentary, past/present conflation, surface-emotions only.
oh, man, i have zero to say about it.
i don't know - people love this book, but i am not one of them.
L. James, Marguerite Duras has written a sparse, minimal and painfully sad erotic love story that never gets drawn into the realms of romantic fantasy.And to deeply appreciate 'The Lover', it needs to be looked at from the perspective of Duras herself.
Pen was put to paper when she was 70, it's predominantly all about looking back on memories past, and I say it's a painful read, painful in respects to nostalgia, as nostalgia forms the basis for the story that has origins from her actual youth while living in French Indochina, age fifteen she fell in love with a rich Chinese man.
I’m sure I would have continued as a boy, unless I had met you.I had slept with many girls in Paris, and I bedded plenty more after you, before I married my wife, a virgin until our wedding night.
Something must have touched him, unless he did it out of a sense of duty to my father, for he took a photo of us that day.He gave it to me when he retired 10 years ago.
الأعمال السابقة وغيرها من قائمة الأعمال الفرنسية العظيمة – التي أحببتها شخصيًا – أقول له اليوم أضم هذه التحفة الصغيرة لـ"عبقريته الفنيةا" للأعمال الفرنسية التي أعجبتني في فترات سابقة من حياتي القرائية.، هي نوفيلا في (126) وقد كتبت بضمير متكلم والكثير من المونولوج الداخلي لكن تقنية إستحضار الفلاش باك - ذكري الماضي - وتوظيفه في الحاضر ثم وبطريقة جنونية تجعلع خبرًا إستباقيًا للمستقبل كان عملًا إحترافيًا.
أن تنقل كل أحداث طفولتها ومراهقتها وصولًآ لمرحلة الشباب والنضح لما بعد الكهولة وقد تجاوزت سن السبعين تنقله بتقنيه روائية عالية تشعرك أن كل خبرات الكتابة أذابتها ووضعتها في قالب روائي عميق يتطلب منك جهدًا لابأس من التركيزبإشارات طفيفة عن (سايغون : المستعمرة الفرنسية) في فيتنام (هو تشي منه : اليوم) نقلت العمق التاريخي الفيتنامي والصيني والفرنسي حول هذه المنطقة وتلك الفترة التريخية.
252. L'Amant = The Lover, Marguerite DurasThe Lover (French: L'Amant) is an autobiographical novel by Marguerite Duras, published in 1984 by Les Éditions de Minuit. It has been translated to 43 languages and was awarded the 1984 Prix Goncourt. It was adapted to film in 1992 as The Lover. Set against the backdrop of French colonial Vietnam, The Lover reveals the intimacies and intricacies of a clandestine romance between a pubescent girl from a financially strapped French family and an older, wea
Set against the backdrop of French colonial Vietnam, The Lover reveals the intimacies and intricacies of a clandestine romance between a pubescent girl from a financially strapped French family and an older, wealthy Chinese man.
دخترک گاه عاشق خود را دوست دارد؛ و گاهی از او بیزار است.
دیدگاه روان‌کاوانه، و تصویرپردازی دوراس، گرچه در جاهائی بی‌ ربط می‌نماید، اما حاکی از هوش نویسنده در جهت جلب و انگیزش خوانشگر عام است؛ تا حدی که «عاشق» به عنوان نمونه‌ ای از ادبیات روان‌شناسی، معرفی می‌شود.
And the time comes, when we’ve to make peace with our past, to let go of moments we cherished dearly, or of those which brought torment endless, the love we lived or the one we denied emphatically, the people we admired foolishly and the ones we’d to abandon, things fall apart and what is left are the crumbled spikes we call memories.
But along with pain can we also find pleasure in unfulfilled desires?
Longing brings pain and emptiness with itself, but it also makes the good part even better.
An ordinary, calm, perfect happiness or happiness stained by the pain which comes with longing, but also enriched by the intensity and passion that come along with it?
They also desire what ultimately can never bring them happiness.
This is a story of doomed lovers, who love each other with all the intensity and passion of people who know they are about to lose each other.
If desire is pleasure and pain equally, how do we cope?
An affair of a pubescent girl with a 27-year old affluent Chinese man brings variation in one’s perception.
Over the years, the book was disparaged for its pedophilic nature and the overtly sexual display of a young girl romanticizing to the term 'prostitutes'.
From the time I read the book as an 12 year old, when I accidentally “borrowed” the book from my cousin’s library stock to those several occasions, I comprehended the writings as an adult, all I observed was a power struggle of an adolescent who naively used her sexuality to find a sense of belonging and in some way gain control over her existence.
But at the end of the affair, she comes to the realization that her love for him may have been genuine after all.A perpetual state of chaos seems to prevail inside the adolescent protagonist's head and this almost becomes an accurate reflection of the tumultuous times of a colonized, multi-cultural, multi-ethnic Indo-China (present Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia) - a war-ravaged land whose fortunes remained at the mercy of various colonial masters for decades.
When I picked this book up I was drawn to the haunting picture of the girl on the cover, which turns out to be Marguerite Duras, the author.
After reading I'm thinking, I can't believe this book is not more prominent in the mainstream of modern literature.
It's the story of a 15 year old French girl and her affair with an older man, a wealthy Chinese.
The girl is an outcast in her own dysfunctional family, a family that is struggling to hold it's place, economically and emotionally, in the strange and ancient culture of Vietmam.
The light fell from the sky in cataracts of pure transparency, in torrents of silence and immobility. The air was blue, you could hold it in your hand. Blue. The sky was the continual throbbing of the brilliance of the light. The night lit up everything, all the country on either bank of the river as far as the eye could reach. Every night was different, each one had a name as long as it lasted. Their sound was that of the dogs, the country dogs baying at mystery. They answered one another from
The night lit up everything, all the country on either bank of the river as far as the eye could reach.
Here, the gems were fewer and farther between, and the brightness was lessened to the point that I began to wonder about efficacy of translations and even the potential worth of watching the movie to more fully appreciate the book.
I'm still eyeing that movie, but the book has enough going for it for my full appreciation to build upon my more simplistic 'like'.French Indochina was a new world of literature for me, as was Duras' writing from a viewpoint both strange and familiar.
Marguerite Duras, about 70 when she wrote it, tells you about her first affair, with a rich Chinese man.
The author is not trying to tell you a love story or complain about how fate, her lover or her family mistreated her.
I thought back to things that had happened to me when I was a teenager and I tried to write about them the way Duras did, and I couldn't do it.
Then she said that there was a second man, older, a martial arts instructor.
She said it was different from other relationships she'd had; the sex was different.
She said that she wasn't telling me anything.
A woman writing from her older years about her teenage experiences in Viet Nam with her Chinese lover, but also with her family.
And also of her experience of Viet Nam itself--the natural world, the skies and trees and people, and customs both strange and familiar.
The book is an experiential wonder, slipping between past and present, the concrete observations of the moment and whimsical, beautiful thoughts of the natural world and the history of mankind.
And there is her much older lover, a man some 20 years older than this 15 year old girl who manifestly shouts to the world how strongly she does not love him.
Though translated from the original French, you will experience an almost immediate halt, like you are reading something in a different language.
These are remembrances of herself at 15 and a half years young, and her erotic love affair with a 27 year old wealthy Chinese man.
For me though, it treads the razor's edge of true-life Lolita, with his uncontrollable love for this girl, with his tearful, sexual obsession.
An unphotographed, lonely and serious girl, whose family life has sucked the childhood out of her.
Marguerite Duras has written the remarkable story of her childhood love affair with a wealthy older man, who happened to be Chinese.
The book is written with exquisite language expressing perfectly the powerful emotions of the innocent girl as she experiences first love with an exotic and loving older man.
The young French girl faces disgrace on many levels.
He is torn between the love he feels for the young French girl and family obligation.
The sad life of the young French girl is well described, which probably explains her desire and need for love and escape from her desolate world.
A novella must ALWAYS make a deep impact. Hell, the writer did not think that more was necessary so whatever is there MUST be genius. "The Lover" is heartfelt, autobiographical, strange. The titular Chinese man is not even the focus: it is the brother and how his selfishness dooms the entire family. "L'amant" is about two people coming together in lust/love for only a moment... in solice or absolution. I like "adult" books but this one has the voice of a single victim in a long, sad tradition of "victims." Lose "classic" status, please!
امشب دیگر تحمل فکر کردن به مرد شولنی را در خود نمیبینم.
تحمل فکر کردن به هلن را هم ندارم.
بنظر میرسد که زندگی این دو از نوعی غنا برخوردار است، غنایی که بیرون از وجود آنهاست؛ من اما گویا از این چیزها مبرا هستم.
گویا زندگی دارد چهرهی واقعیاش را به من نشان میدهد.
بنظرم حالا دیگر باید این چیزها را برای خودم بگویم، بگویم که میل گنگی به مردن دارم و این کلمه را دیگر از این پس جدا از خودم نمیدانم.
میل گنگی به تنها بودن دارم، در عین حال میدانم از وقتی که کودکی
من این چهره‌ی شکسته را بیشتر از آن چهره‌ی جوان دوست دارم.کتاب با ذکر این جمله‌ی یان‌اندره‌آ، عاشق شیدای دوراس در سنین پیری آغاز می‌شود، چنانکه مخاطب در آغاز خیال می‌کند که کتاب درباره‌ی او نوشته شده است، ولی عاشق در اینجا کس دیگری‌ست، مردی از قاره‌ای دیگر.
با این وجود دوراس بعد از جدایی از مرد چینی تصور می‌کند شاید مرد شولنی، این چینی سراپا عاشق را دوست داشته و درگیری خود رابطه مانع از درک چنینی احساسی شده باشدسهاین اثر بیش از آنکه خاطره‌نویسی باشد، یک رمان نو محسوب می‌شود و از این رو روایت توالی زمانی مشخصی ندارد و وقایع بطور پراکنده در متن جا گرفته است.
I picked up a copy, read over a rainy Monday and put it on my shelf feeling like I had been hit over the head.The prose is fluid and dreamlike, probably because it’s the voice of an old woman looking back at her far away past: the details are vague, some faces are blurred and it can sometimes feel like Duras narrates her tale from a place of aloofness, but I feel like it’s simply the distance of years.
It is unsettling, but I didn’t feel like it was the relationship between the girl and the business man that was wrong: it was the abuse they both suffered.
Probably the most famous among the many brilliant works of Marguerite Duras (1914-1996), The Lover (French: L’Amant) is based on her actual experience while living in Vietnam during her teen years. Published in 1984, this autobiographical novel has been translated to 43 languages, awarded the 1984 Prix Goncourt and was turned into a movie in 1992 starring Jane March as the 15-1/2-y/o French girl Duras and Tony Leung as 17-y/o Chinese Man.   Yes, the novel (as well as the movie where the scene ab
Published in 1984, this autobiographical novel has been translated to 43 languages, awarded the 1984 Prix Goncourt and was turned into a movie in 1992 starring Jane March as the 15-1/2-y/o French girl Duras and Tony Leung as 17-y/o Chinese Man.
It will surely make you remember your first love and trigger the what if questions once again.In a nutshell, The Lover is like Duras' confession before her death twelve years after.
This is a lot better than her other book that I've read early this year, The Ravishing of Lol Stein (1964).
Marguerite Duras has written retrospectively the hypnotic story of her strange relationship with the son of a millionaire Chinese, at least 15 years older than her.
Written as a novel, there is no doubt, however, that we have our own love story when, at 15, she maintained a relationship in Indochina in the 1930s while her mother, an impoverished teacher with three children, tried to reach at the end of the month.
Duras tells the story from the distance of the years, using a technique of oblique references, forgetting, repetition (straw hat, dress, shoes ...) and fragmented images.
It is an hypnotic & seductive, atmospheric, superimposed and strangely deconstructed story, that the reader will not forget easily.
I loved the strangeness of this woman's interior, her voice, the way such a slim volume can sum up an entire life, compelling and erotic and intellectual all at once.******************rereading...
It begins with an older voice, a woman looking back at her life, a particular moment of her life, and she uses the past tense, whereas when she is in the past, in the point of view of the girl she was, she uses the present tense.
The book is like being trapped inside a deep and disturbing dream on a stifling hot summer night.
Is it Duras' writing style or the translation that creates the sparse atmosphere, the jumping around from present to memory to thoughts to...I'm not sure exactly what.
But it worked so beautifully, so tragically.Early in the book Duras writes about her mother in a way that did something to me.
If you've lost your mother, if you never had a relationship with her, if she was troubled or cold or failed to love you....the first thirty pages of this book will slay you.And then we meet the lover.
A little book about an intense, illicit affair between a 15 yr old poor white girl and a wealthy 27 year old Chinese man. Duras writes a very atmospheric novella here..I liked it
Una novela increíble: dura, real, cercana y luchadora. Me ha encantado. Duras pasa a ser todo un referente.
La ragazza, con i suoi 15 anni, è una donna che cresce all’ombra di una madre con disturbi psichici, di natura depressiva i e l’impotenza, davanti alla sua sofferenza, la rende estremamente triste.
L’impossibilità di essere figlia e per lei la famiglia che sua madre aveva vanamente sperato di creare, le aprirà la strada per sprofondare nel cinismo.
La madre che ha un ruolo fondamentale per la crescita di quella figlia le lascerà passare comportamenti disdicevoli a parere di molti ma soprattutto le lascerà credere che quel suo modo di essere presente per quell’uomo sia l’unica forma possibile di amore che potrà donargli.
Le consentirà di credere che di quell’uomo le interesseranno solo i suoi soldi.
fragmented, drab, and full of unpleasant people. had a nice part about a hat though.
