https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44234.The_Civil_War
Was it not as in the old days?”-	Private Barry Benson, Army of Northern Virginia (1880), quoted by Shelby Foote at the conclusion of Ken Burns’ The Civil War It’s hard to know where to start when discussing Shelby Foote’s three-volume The Civil War: A Narrative.
I first read The Civil War: A Narrative while in high school (which should tell you all you need to know about my popularity).
The Civil War: A Narrative is almost exclusively about the battles, the men who fought them, and the courage that took.
Far be it from me to criticize anyone who wants to read about Civil War battles.
The stand-out in this volume is, unsurprisingly, Gettysburg; I've never understood either the nature or significance of the battle the way I do now that I've read Foote's account.
All told, it took only slightly longer to fight the Civil War than it did for me to read Foote's account of it, but my opinion remains unchanged: this is an absolute masterpiece.
But the greatest praise must go to the overall impact; I feel like I truly understand the War now in ways I never have, in spite of a lifetime spent reading American history.
Shelby Foote was commissioned to write a concise narrative of the American Civil War in 1958, following his great success with the book, Shiloh.
His was the first Southern voice to describe the Civil War in more than a generation.
Shelby Foote also demonstrates his respect for Lincoln (long before Ms Godwin's "Team of Rivals") who was fighting the war on multiple fronts.
Lincoln was fighting his cabinet, the Copperhead Generals (Democrats who had their own war aims), the Radical Republicans, and come to grips with his own ignorance of modern warfare.
Footes writing style makes the work.
Having read and enjoyed Shelby Foote's novel Shiloh (which I highly recommend), I was motivated to attempt his magnum opus, the one million-plus word trilogy The Civil War. The books are surprisingly readable, come in a bright box set and are great for flipping through.
if you have any background with the Civil War, I suggest reading the introduction and then skipping around and reading about the battles or figures you're interested in.
Foote is the master of the anecdote so these books make for great conversational resources and are quite memorable.I cannot recommend this trilogy, however, without a nod to the greatest definitive history set: Gibbon's Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire.
It took me like 4 fuckin months to read this colossus, but I finally finished it (all 3, 1000+ page volumes).
A treasure.It’s also the most homoerotic thing I’ve read in a long time.
It’s technically true, yes, but you have to admit, it’s a little shady to say.As I mentioned, the book is epically long.
By the time you get to Appomattox, you’re like, come on, this is great and all, but end this thing already.
And they do, but there’s like 800 pages to go after that.
And there is still like 500 pages to go.
These things alone should have caused Foote to leave aside his shuck-and-jive introduction about being a sucker for a lost cause, and instead honestly include in the title, making it "The Civil War: A Confederate Perspective", or something similar.* Though he says he has written a nonfiction series, using narrative form because he wrote primarily as a novelist (which he was good at and should have stuck to, IMHO), he takes the third person omniscient, stating what various members of the secessionist army and political leadership were thinking at so many times that it is hard to believe his blanket statement that it is all documented; it surely is not referenced, as the McPherson work I am currently reading is.
This is the last volume which covered Grant arriving in Washington to take up duties as commander—and looking like a scruffy nonentity who was offered a room in the attic of Willard’s Hotel until the clerk saw his name—to the death of Jefferson Davis (Foote is a southerner after all).
If Red River to Appomattox ended with the death of Jefferson Davis, it began with Grant's coming to Washington and being taken for a run-of-the-mill nonentity general when he asked for a room at Willard's hotel--until he signed his name.
I have read this set half a dozen times -- for a while there I re-read them every summer. Foote was a novelist before he was a historian, and it shows in his style. The books give a fairly even-handed treatment of the military history of the American civil war, using actual quotes to flesh out the interactions among the characters to a surprising extent. One of the best histories I've ever read.
In fact, it had become so horrible that we couldn't even lie to ourselves about it any more.Or so you'd like to think.In any case, by the time I got to the end of this trilogy I was wondering how much longer the blood and suffering could go on.
For all that, anyone interested in the United States should read a good history of the Civil War, and this is one of the best.
As Foote himself said, everything the United States has become since, good and bad, we became because of this war.
This is probably the leading complete history of the Civil War, which for me means there is a great opportunity for someone to write something better.Good things:1.
Too strong a bias in favor of South.2.
Too strong a bias in favor of covering less important western action.3.
For me, needed more and better maps, with dates and times on them.5.
Would have benefitted from a "Cast of Players" list so reader could keep straight on who various military figures were, and provide refresher on where one had last read about them.6.
They also maintained that the Confederate Constitution represented the Original Intent of the Founders, particularly slave owners like George Washington and Thomas Jefferson, in spite of the fact that both freed their slaves in their wills.This is important particularly because these issues are still alive in the former Confederacy, particularly in the Republican Southern Strategy of racism and resentment starting in 1964, after passage of the Civil Rights Acts and the Voting Rights Act. I have written about that and about the use of Dog Whistle code for White Supremacy and other such issues at Daily Kos, under the name Mokurai, and on dKosopedia, particularlyhttp://www.dkosopedia.com/wiki/Code_W...Apart from that, I learned a great deal more about the battles and about the politics, North and South, than I had learned from other sources, and enjoyed learning it more.
Still have a couple hundred pages in the last volume because I got waylaid with other books to review for actual money -- but Foote's Civil War is a true masterpiece. His friend Walker Percy famously called it "an American Iliad," which description I cannot dispute.
It was a stratified, aristocratic society in many ways, and the officers tended to come from the upper class,which meant merging and crossing family lines.
The union’s General Butler was a congressman who wanted to be president and thought being a war hero would be a good way to get himself some creds.
Talk about idiocy and obstinacy.And, finally, there’s Jefferson Davis himself—the president, not the union officer.
But he did talk in his later years about how given the present circumstances, seeing to the good of the union was the best course for everyone.Going on to construction: An army’s purpose is to kill people and destroy things.
This magisterial work is the best book that I've read on the Civil War. Incredibly well researched, but if you're looking for something with a lot of footnotes for your own work or research, this isn't it; however, if you're an American history buff or simply a fan of good writing, you should read these books.Don't be deterred by the length.
The Civil War had a profound effect on American life and consciousness, and there can be no better way to celebrate the 150th anniversary than reading these incredible books.
Confederate troops wore not just grey, but also "butternut".
Great series. Excellent narrative.
I wander back into Shelby Foote's Civil War trilogy every few years, partly out of an enduring love for the work, partly from five years or so having to pass for the entirety of its contents to have dribbled out of my sieve-like mind.
(Which is probably why I struggle with these silly little book reviews and Foote was able to complete the greatest Civil War history of them all.)Volume 1 is the slowest of the three, but that by no means is a slight on it.
For now, I love this trilogy, I am inspired and entranced by their beauty and literary heft, and I wish I could shake Shelby Foote's hand.
Later on in this shitty year, well into our terrible future, I'll get to a point where I can sit down and record my brain vibrations regarding the 3,000 or so pages of Shelby Foote I lobbed into their heavily bombarded homeland over the course of the last year.
It is the civil war given the full Gibbon, so to speak, (with a little bit of Milton) and the labor of reading it was both immediately gratifying for the strength of the prose as well as being a heavy thing to ponder as a painstakingly researched document of the war itself.
I'd somehow become dawn to read Civil War history (this was before Ken Burns' PBS series made its initial run).When I realized it was a trilogy, I decided to go on to volume three.
From there, I went to the first volume and read all three books straight through.Shelby Foote came from a family that had writers in it.
They spent time together on the family estate of the Percy's (Walker and Shelby's uncle's home).This trilogy reads like a novel.
Having seen him in Ken Burns' series and on Book-TV from time to time, Mr. Foote told a great story.This series might surprise people with the breadth and scope of the activity surrounding the war.
Foote's 3 volume narrative history of the Civil War is considered the definitive history for a very good reason: it is almost unbelievably complete and, at the same time, wonderfully charactered.
Foote finds aspects of personality and upbringing that cast every major figure of the civil war in almost an entirely unique light.
Also, you won't hear it in the book on tape, but the man had one of the sweetest voices ever to grace a human being's ear.
I never thought I would love the sound of another man's voice, but holy s***, tell me this isn't a voice just MADE to tell stories?http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gBghmv...
This is the first of many volumes on the Civil War, this one covering the time from Lincoln's election through secession to Fort Henry.
I knew very little about the Civil War other than a few things I remembered from American History many years ago.
I was amazed at the problems, mistakes, rivalries, and misjudgements that occurred on both sides.
Rivalries between commanding officers caused battles to be lost, opportunities to be wasted.
Both sides expected to win within months, not realizing the complexity and strength of their opponent or the difficulties involved with untrained volunteers.I am looking forward to reading the next volume.
Forgot about this trio - so I will add a few words...I am fascinated by the US Civil War and it doesn't take much to get my interest flowing, if the topic is covered.
It is immense in size and had to be so, as it covers material - not only the handful of years when the Civil War actually occurred, but the aftermath and also the historical and cultural significance to Americans, and world citizenry.When I first bought them, I read the entirety in about two weeks.
The best book I've read recently is "The Civil War: A Narrative" by Shelby Foote.
It is kind of a commitment--three fairly hefty volumes.
But it is far more entertaining than one expects.
I bought it at a used book store after seeing him (Foote) on a dvd of the PBS series, "The Civil War".
The series was outstanding in large part because of Foote's contributions, so I thought to myself, "I really liked listening to this guy talk, so maybe I'll like reading his book".I did, and very much so.
What a superb piece of writing!The very best historical works, for me, have always been those which have a strong narrative voice.
I think the origins of this taste lie in my early reading of Herodotus' epic recounting of the Persian Wars.
I think it re-enforces the fact that history is a human endeavour.
It's the story of human activities, without make-up, if you will.Shelby Foote supplies that human voice, in plenty, both with his own words and the quotes he utilizes, by characters in the drama both major and minor.I can't praise this work too highly.
I don't buy books much anymore; blame the library right around the corner for that.
This million-page history is good enough to read every couple years.
So I put Vol. 1 on my Christmas list, and by next Christmas, I will probably have read Vol. 2 and will ask for the final bloody volume.
Shelby Foote is clear, cogent, and even-handed.
The progression of the war is easy to follow and Foote used primary sources extensively from what I could tell.
I need to read more about the buildup to the war now.
I also haven't read much about Reconstruction.
Recommended for history buffs.
Just read this series of books for the second time.
All History should be this well researched, and this well written.
Shelby foot may not have written too many books, but it is clear he understood the art and craft of writing, and brought that approachability to over 20 years of research.
Its a history book that I was sorry ended except that one is glad the war is over, and the incredible bloodshed has come to an end.
I only wish he had written a forth volume about reconstruction and what happened there.
When we moved to DC in 1990 (and then Arlington in 1992), I went on a civil war kick, since we were in the heart of so many battlefields, and as an homage to my Dad, who was fascinated with the Civil War (his grandfather was a boy when Sherman marched through his town of McDonough, GA).
I read a ton of books on the subject - this 3 volume series is, I think, my favorite series on the War. Lots of great detail, plus interesting asides, personal stories, and all well written.
I was sorry when I was finished with this.
You really can't talk about these volumes without going overboard. Foote's account is stately and Homeric- it glorifies and romanticizes the War in a way that would be inconceivable after Vietnam- he wrote it in the fifties and early sixties. It's probably the most detailed popular account that we'll have for quite some time. When I was young the part of the South I lived in was still fighting the conflict, so I come by my fascination with it honestly, and I must say reading (and listening on Audible) to Foote made for a memorable summer.
Read over the course of a summer several years ago; purchased for a song from the B&N bargain shelves."Comprehensive" doesn't cover it. You'll never hold all the names, notables and nuance in your head; don't bother trying. One of the few histories of the Civil War that lends the appropriate weight to the Western campaigns; the only one I've read that got the story of Little Round Top right.
I first discovered shelby foote while watching ken burns' civil war. I am fascinated by this period of history, anthese three volumes are the ultimate detailed record. they describe the battles, politics, biographies, and much of the human reaction to war, soldiers and people warred upon. great stuff if that's your interest.
