https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3427361-winnie-the-pooh-treasury
I haven't read or seen any Winnie-The-Pooh stories since childhood. They are simply lovely.
I just saw the movie Christopher Robin, and I'm not exactly sure why but it was a hug for my soul. I'd never read the original Pooh stories before. Turns out they are just delightful and full of quiet, humorous turns of phrase.
I love these stories. I do think some of the messages are a bit tongue and cheek, but I think it was still perfect for bedtime.
These stories are absolutely charming. I think I enjoyed them more than my kids. My boys enjoyed the stories, and I enjoyed the wit. Genuinely a must read.
I don't know WHY on earth they would do it this way, but the stories are not just a random jumble of selections from Winnie-the-Pooh and The House at Pooh Corner, they are all out of order!
Why would you do that, editor?!?!The illustrations are beautiful and in full color, but the stories themselves were also just a "meh" for me.
There are some cute ones but part of the humor is supposed to be that Pooh and Piglet and company are rather know-it-all and selfish.
Honestly, I think I prefer watching the Disneyfied cartoon versions from the '60s because they had cute songs and chose really great voices for the characters.
How can I express my love for these wonderful tales?
I can only say that every child should be blessed by their presence in their lives.
Read them to your children and cure them of many heart aches.
Peter Denis reads them aloud and in that audio version there is an introduction written by Christopher Robin himself (in which he recommends listening to Peter read them).If your children are going to be watching the Disney versions of these immortal tales then they certainly ought to listen or read the originals because there is far more charm and wisdom in them.
I listened to this on a playaway from the library, read by Peter Dennis.
I'm not a frequent listener of audiobooks, so it took some getting used to.
I'm still not totally comfortable with not being able to refer back to earlier pages.
Especially the table of contents.
It was nice, however, because the little songs and rhymes are performed.
I liked the music between tracks and wish they had listed the composer on the box somewhere.
ETA: I lied the composer, Don Davis, was covered up by a sticker the library put on the player.
I have a very special place in my heart for the bear of very little brain.
Children are never too old to be read to.
This will be the first thing I read to my children, because I want them to "think-think-think"to know "that they are braver than they believe, stronger than they seem, and smarter than they think" and to know that "forever isn't long at all when I'm with you".
I want their dearest friends to be each other, their mama, and a silly old bear.
5 stars for A.A. Milne but only 3 for the editor.
I have never read the "real" Pooh books so I can't quite compare but this is just a collection of stories and they all seemed to be out of order.
For instance, we'd read about Kanga and Tigger and then the last few chapters were about how those characters came to the forest.
Shouldn't those have been toward the beginning?
There were several instances of things being out of order and I was unimpressed.
I like that it is nicely bound and I think it will last a long time even with my rough toddlers.
Read to Kira.
I don't remember reading this book when I was little, so it was new for me as I read it to my daughter. We both enjoyed it so much more than the "Disney-ized" versions of the stories we've encountered recently. My favorite parts were the little songs Pooh makes up throughout. I also liked that the whole book is a set of stories told to the "real" Christopher Robin by his Mom? Dad? Caregiver? It's not clear who is inventing the stories, but they are imaginative and the language is wonderful.
I loved reading these stories aloud with my son again, now he's a little older. So many giggles at these funny, sweet, loving stories. This particular edition, however, the stories are not in order though, which can be confusing, but as we knew the stories anyway we just enjoyed reading it. It was a sweet nightly read with my boy.
This collection of about 10 books (may be more, may be less, they are now scattered throughout various bookshelves in our house), is simply enchanting. The innocence of Pooh and his companions is a joy to behold, and the stories endure long after the children have progressed out of the nursery. An absolute must for every child's reading list.
This book is all the comfort and love of childhood in one cover. Winnie the Pooh shaped my life from the beginning, and even now, sixteen years later, it touches me to read it. All of the tales of Pooh and Piglet and Christopher Robin are like a window to the past, an insight on the simplicity of childhood.
Moms facing empty nests should really have a whole pack of tissues at their disposal for the last chapter of this book (really two books in one). I felt the whole ebb and flow of childhood pass before my eyes as Christopher Robin went...somewhere. What sorrow that this is the last time I will read these books to my children!
This book is not one to read straight through. Each chapter is a different story. And some of the stories I really did not like. Considered reading this to my son but really did not like the way the stories read. The movie is better in my opinion.
Every time I read this, I choose a new favorite part. Today, it's Chapter 2 of The House at Pooh Corner "In Which Tigger Comes to the Forest and Has Breakfast" I much prefer classic Tigger to the Disney version.
Cute, simple stories that my boys and I enjoyed reading together. The stories are sweet and at times very touching but I found the rambling oh-I'm-so-muddled passages grating. Contains a lot of tongue-in-cheek humor that seems more appropriate for adults.
Such adorable stories! My children and I have cozied up for a laugh each evening and played Pooh sticks at every bridge. We have talked about fears and friendships. In short this has been a joyful read aloud book
It was a great story to read to my sons. They liked how it had pictures in it, and I liked how it was more like an actual novel w/the pictures from time to time to keep their attention. --How funny, Anthony just looked over my shoulder and read my comments about the book outloud :)--
My favorite bedtime stories, along with Beatrix Potter. I'll never be too old to be read to, or read to, bedtime stories; mostly in hammocks ;-)
Disappointed that there are so few stories in here and that they are out of order. When I bought it, I thought it was all the Pooh stories (as it is a "treasury") but it was only a select few.
One of my favorite books of all time. The older I get the better they become.
I read this aloud to my 9 year old and she adored it. I don't remember reading it as a child but loved it too.
I love this copy of Milne's stories.
Classic Pooh with classic moments
So imaginative. Really captures a child's world.
Narration stellar!
I read this to my children, but I got as much enjoyment out of it as they did.
wonderful read aloud--actually so smart--you want to read it to older kids to get the full benefit of the fun humor and touching dialogue.
One of my absolute favorites!
