https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51373.Change_Your_Brain_Change_Your_Life
Amen focuses solely on case study after case study after case study as evidence for how effective various medications can be.
We are never given a zoomed-out view on all of his patients; he only focuses on subjects that received "successful" treatments.He does not balance his pro-drug argument with the consequences of misdiagnoses, negative side effects, and so forth.
Every time he names the brand of a drug, it feels like a product placement, which distracts and undermines the sincerity of his recommendations.
Amen inserts his personal opinion alongside his professional neurological opinion, namely on music.
In reference to the title, I found the chapter on the Cingulate part of the brain to be absolutely enlightening.
Dr Amen is not drug pusher however, at the end of the chapters on specific disorders he provides great advice for both sufferers and those close to sufferers that is both non-judgmental but also realistic and honest.Personally I find neurobiology heavy going, but this book provided plenty of straightford information about behaviour and while one might not remember the function of every brain area the basic ideas and information are absolutely vital for anyone concerned with their own or other's behaviour.
For those who aren't familiar, the science behind this book explains what parts of the brain contribute to what things, and how (when these parts are damaged by head injuries, trauma, or what have you) personalities change/are formed.
But not the way this author writes or thinks about it.There is a LOT of specious science in this book.
The author draws a *lot* of conclusions that are clearly based on his view of the world, not on "real science".
This author claims that it's "no coincidence" that "most teenagers" who come to psychologists seeking help for mental health conditions listen to heavy metal.
Dr. Amen does a great job of talking about SPECT scans, and describing the main sections of the brain.
Dr. Amen does a great job of illustrating this in several examples.Two minor complaints: Like so many book of this type, so much pre-time is devoted to the topic of "why you should read this book", when a preface or dust jacket review should suffice.
Also, Dr. Amen is a brain specialist and an active psychiatrist who prescribes medicines.
Having read counter-points on this, I am leery of the use of brain medications, in spite of Dr. Amen's eloquent defense of them.
Your brain is the hardware of your soul.--Dr. Daniel AmenAfter reading about half the book, I grew weary of the repetitive pattern of naming a part of the brain, describing its function in terms of behavior, and then offering advice about how to improve its performance.
Serious brain science has only been around for a couple of decades, and most people still aren't aware of the biological basis of behavior--much less the fact that we can have a great deal of control over our thoughts, feelings, and even physical structure of our brains.
I have bipolar disorder, and this book helped give me more direction in treating and controlling it. I found myself described very well in Dr. Ahmen's case studies, self-tests, and medical studies. He dispenses more than just medication (which, by the way, I take and fully support) - he offers direction in psychotherapy and behavioral therapy as well. I found the book encouraging and helpful as did my husband. He's not bipolar; he was able to relate more to me and help me determining things about myself that I didn't realize.
If you have ever struggled with anxiety, depression, ADHD, obsessive-compulsive disorder, or other garden-variety psychological problems, this book is extremely helpful.
The author, Daniel Amen, is a neuropsychiatrist who specializes in a type of brain imaging called SPECT (single photon emission computed tomography), which measures cerebral blood flow and metabolic activity patterns.
Each psychological problem listed above is characterized by a particular pattern in the brain.
There is a physical basis for the problem, not just "how you're feeling."What makes the book especially valuable is that Amen gives "prescriptions" based on his extensive practice for each disorder, a set of steps that can help you strengthen the brain that isn't working quite
«Ознакомившись с результатами пяти тысяч обследований SPECT, вкупе с историями болезней этих пациентов, я пришел к убеждению, что – это мы, когда наш мозг работает нормально.
Я обладаю весьма посредственными медицинскими знаниями, но книги написана очень понятно и у меня не возникло трудностей с пониманием материала.Книга, главным образом, посвящена описанию работы отделов мозга и тому как они влияют на поведение человека.
Может в силу того, что книга эта по психологии, и все выводы сделанные психологами на основании эмпирических изысканий также точны, как и при анализе мозга, современной медициной.
Никогда не думал, что играя на спортплощадке и ударившись головой о турник, можно всю жизнь расплачиваться за свою невнимательность.Мне понравилось, как написана книга.
This book came across my radar a few weeks ago when I was channel-surfing and caught the PBS program "Change Your Brain, Change Your Life" presented by Dr. Daniel Amen.
As he explains which parts of the brain control which behaviors and emotions, he is able to determine and diagnose problems in brain function which underlie a patient's behavior.
He talks about how medications are used and how they work on the damaged brain, and gives recommendations for exercise and nutrition that can optimize brain function.
started interesting but it became full of bias affirmations and pre-concepts that are so old fashioned I had to check if the book wasn't written in the 60s
I HIGHLY recommend this book. Don't let the cheeky title or the click-bait-looking cover fool you. This book is a treasure trove of information that I duly intend to fact check and act upon. It has given me insight into my self, and those around me and helped me to better understand human actions and relationships. A must read in my opinion.
Dr. Amen primarily uses SPECT (single photon emission computed tomography) scans to show patients what their brains look like before and after treatment.
On the other hand, I liked the way he presented the educative aspects of the book, for instance, in chapter 5 on anxiety and fear, he did an excellent presentation of the basal ganglia.
Although I have been spot reading by chapter, overall, I think this is a good book to read if you want to understand the way your brain works and what is going on during the progression of certain mental disorders.
My hubby and I saw Daniel Amen give a presentation on PBS on the nutrition-brain-wellness connection and were intrigued.
I think I accidentally bought the wrong book on Amazon.
Anyhoo, we *are* trying to incorporate the brain foods that Amen recommended in his PBS presentation into our weekly diet:1.
Fish--salmon, tuna, mackerel, herring2.
Poultry--chicken and turkey3.
Meat--lean beef and pork 4.
Tofu and soy products6.
Dairy products--low-fat cheeses and cottage cheese, low-fat sugar-free yogurt and low-fat or skim milk7.
Beans, especially garbanzo beans and lentils8.
Nuts and seeds, especially walnuts9.
Berries--especially blueberries, raspberries, strawberries, blackberries10.
Extra-virgin cold-pressed olive oil 22.
Olives23.
I really loved this book, first time i stumbled across the author, and if his findings are true, it 
8/29/18 - Amen leads study of aging brain ... marijuana accelerates aging processhttps://www.sciencedaily.com/releases...7/22/18 - Thought of Amen when reading linked articlehttps://www.sciencedaily.com/releases...***Remembering one of first HS Shooters ... after Kip killed fellow students, Amen studied his brain, found it extremely distorted physically ... now, wonder if Vegas shooter's brain remains can be analyzed, and wonder about his blood chemistry, serotonin levels, etc.?https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thursto...http://www.autismwebsite.com/crimetim...***
There was a lot of interesting information in this book. And some stuff that seemed a bit strange/silly/unscientific. Like that rock music is bad for you. I do also question the benefits of getting a SPECT scan versus the cons. The book makes it sound kind of amazing and like we all need to run out and get one done, but I highly doubt it is actually a good idea for everyone. However, I think it could be interesting to try some of his recommendations if you have some of these issues and want to try things besides traditional medicine.
It was good!
It taught me a lot in How Brian's work.
How our Brian affects our behavior and how we can get our behavior under control by controlling our Brian.
Sometimes the way we act is a brain problem and we need to restore our thoughts back to Christ.
Sometimes you can't do alone, and there may be a bigger picture on why people act the way they do.
It could be a brain problem.
Liked how it gave many examples backed up with evidence from the numerous brain scans that the doctor has done.
Also gives answers on how to fix the problem you are having.
I enjoyed this book although I'm don't think it's for everyone. Lots of medical diagnosis and brain talk but it was intriguing to me.
Read this many years ago but thought it was fantastic and have been following Dr. Amen ever since.
I have a 2nd copy of this ebook epub./ Tubel.15/11/13 1 of 8 books for $6 tuggerah library chuck out
I liked this book a lot, but I don't think everyone would.
You should know that it goes into detail around biological and neurological processes, and that the anecdotes and prescriptive advice can become repetitive.
I don't like that the cover and title makes it sound like some as-seen-on-tv infomercial hocus pocus, because the science is real and well-founded, but within the book the author does a good job at not overtly "selling" to the reader all the time, i.e. while his system and products are consistently mentioned, he's not constantly shilling them to the reader.
I found this book fascinating. It gave so much information on a very complex subject and made it understandable to the average person. I learned so much from this book. I learned so much about the brain, its specific areas and its functions. I loved understanding how the brain works at its best and when there is a disconnect what the different areas of the brain do. If you haven't read this book, do yourself a favor and get it.
A surprisingly fascinating look at the physiology behind the psychology. I thought I was going to be bored by brain science jargon, but instead I learned a lot from brain science jargon. The book is organized with alternating chapters of science and application, liberally sprinkled with anecdotes and examples (this helps a lot to keep the prose from slowing down). I picked up a lot of really helpful strategies for managing anxiety and worry, and the more I learned about how the brain's performance affects thoughts, feelings, and actions the more empathetic I became towards others (and myself).
(Creating what seems to me to be a sort of MRI of the brain with light or dark shades indicating above or below normal activity levels, to this layman)Finally, with all that said, I can relate the more intriguing chapters on the Deep Limbic system " near the center of the brain packed with functions critical for human behavior and survival.
How touching brings about physical responses - stirring the limbic system, why couples bond beyond their emotional connection, and casual sex really isn't.
It got me thinking about acquaintances who have taken too many drugs and why they keep telling the same stories over and over again, and why some people behave the way they do.
There may be a cause, like their brain is missing something.
There are dire consequences for damaging your brain with drugs, alcohol, or trauma.
He discovered a correlation with aspects of brain scans with behavior patterns.
This book lists many cases and the various drugs and treatments that led to success stories.
So memory loss and/or dementia are not necessarily a part of aging.
One thing that particularly interests me is how a doctor writes his case studies and in this Dr. Amen demonstrates about as much perspicacity and compassion for his patients as a potato.As I'm not interested in the latest PET scan technology--which *is* the most fascinating portion of this book--and because his suggestions for self care are remedial at best I give this book one star.
My advice to this doctor is stick with the PET scans and the prescription pads.
Let the professionals do the other stuff.Several other reviewers have plaudited Dr. Amen for the "science" in the book.
This book came to me through my interest in Brain Gym (something all integral health seekers should look into as the brain is the organ we ignore the most and take care off/exercise the least).
Each chapter refers to a specific area of the brain, its importance to the human body, related illnesses, shares cases and provides 8 to 10 different tips that can promote health and I would add...
If you are looking for even more alternative health tips and a more touching book I recommend "The Instinct to Heal" by Dr. David Servan-Schreiber.
I finally completed this entire book!
It has taken me four years to read-a-little, comprehend, apply, read-some-more, listen to the audio version, comprehend, re-listen, apply and finally finish this amazing book.
:) It is amazing to gain perspective that not all behavior issues are due to character flaws but because of real overactive and/or under-active parts of your brain or literally brain damage from head damage as children.
(I was dropped on my head a couple times as a toddler onto concrete.) I think I am ready to have a brain scan to see what is going on up there.
If there were negative numbers I would rate this book in the negative category primarily for the destruction it has caused to many along the way.
Dr. Amen and his machine is a HUGE fraud.
We (our family) spent thousands of dollars traveling to one of his clinics only to be greeted with more propaganda, more opportunities to buy more and absolutely NO answers.
The scans he suggested as diagnostic in this book are not at all diagnostic, they are a sorry cover for much deeper problems.
Find real answers from reputable psychiatrists, neurologists, psychologists and neurosurgeons.
This book had easy to implement steps to having a healthier brain. I especially liked Chapter 7 "Feel Better Fast" I also like the idea of linking mental health and the the physical brain together. It makes sense to look at brain images while trying to heal your mind. Good suggestions for people who are suffering from anxiety, depression, OCD, ADHD, lack of focus, anger and memory problems. Looking at the physical brain is a great start to help take away the stigma of mental health.
