https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16243.Case_Histories
And if it isn't an overstatement, then I really don't want to read the non-literary crime fiction.The main character is Jackson, private detective who is trying to resolve 3 or 4 different cases at the same time.
I think there are way better ways to create a character than to drown the reader in their never ending stream of consciousness.I will give you an example:"The language students all seemed to be dressed in combats, in khaki and comouflage, as if there were a war going on and they were the troops (God help us if that were the case).
Case Histories- Jackson Brodie # 1- by Kate Atkinson is a 2007 Little, Brown and Co. publication.
Jackson Brodie, private detective, has an interesting case load: A father looking for the man who viciously murdered his daughter, an elderly lady with so many cats, Jackson must help her look for them, a pair of eccentric sisters looking for the truth about their missing sister, and the sister of an ax murderer is looking for her runaway niece.
Jackson Brodie is hilarious on occasion and I loved his inner monologues.
Set mostly in Cambridge, England, it's the story of a private detective as he tries to solve three cold cases (I mean, REALLY cold - the most recent crime is still 10 years old) as they all interweave and mix in with personal life.
In theory, the plot is nothing special; some missing persons and murder cases, and the details are revealed as the story develops, and the detective's personal life is a mess and someone is trying to kill him.
She has a gorgeous, intimate writing style, pulling you into the personal stories of the living people in the book, and then nonchalantly throwing in the "crime drama" stuff as an afterthought.
I also appreciate authors trying to stretch the mystery genre and find ways to alter its railroad-track kind of plotting.
She told three (or four, depending on how you count) different murder stories, skipping from one to the other without immediately apparent reason.
In a "normally" plotted book I would have skipped over a mistake like this, but here I was just barely hanging on to characters by my fingernails, and I had to search back to reassure myself that she had indeed been Jessop's wife, not his sister or daughter.
As a long-time reader of crime fiction, it is also a joy to read such a literate and character-driven mystery, which does not fit neatly into any particular crime fiction sub-genre.
While the narrative does rely on coincidence, in the context of this novel that felt okay.
Actually, not just okay, but right, because all readers have experienced random coincidences which come from nowhere and yet profoundly affect their lives.
Highly recommended for readers who like character-driven narratives and who don't need their crime fiction to slot neatly into a particular genre.
And one that relies not on plot alone, but on character development much more, which makes it my kind of page-turner.
I also enjoyed both her sly, ironic humor and her sensitive (but not maudlin) compassion concerning all the 'lost girls'.And while my picky brain noticed a colloquialism (used twice) that bothers me ('try and', instead of 'try to', though I know I'm being very picky as the book is written in a colloquial style) and an editing mistake of 'waiver' instead of 'waver' (Anybody want to hire me as a proofreader?
On top of Atkinson's cliched writing style, there were multitudes of plot strands that were ridiculously and not credibly interwoven; many parents (again, not credibly) indifferent to their children; a toll of murder, death, attempted murder, rape, and sexual abuse that had risen almost too high to count by the end (gratuitous would not be overstating it); facile quirkiness and dysfunctionality that was supposed to pass for richness of characterization; endless plot twists large and small, and character shifts, that felt more like being jerked around.
Only one character was remotely likable, the fat (as we are told endlessly) hapless Theo, and really only because he was so pitiable.
She often found herself wanting to remonstrate with her mother and father about their lack of parental care, but her mother had succumbed to stomach cancer not long after Amelia was born, and her father had remarried and moved to Ipswich, where he spent most of his days in the bookies, and all of his evenings in the pub.If, in five years time, Sylvia brought home a thirty-six year old cradle snatching fiance (particularly if he claimed to be a great mathematician) then Rosemary thought she would probably cut his heart out with the carving knife.
This book falls under 2 genres - mystery and family drama - and I would argue that it is much more than the sum of its parts.
Having said that, Case Histories feels like a light read because of Atkinson's great wit.
Atkinson has a talent for weaving together 3 seemingly unrelated stories, all with themes loss, innocence, and healing.
My favorite thing about this book was Atkinson's attention to detail.
But in Case Histories, it wasn't until I finished the novel that I realized that the tiniest nuances were actually meaningful symbols.
Great writing, great characters, great stories - READ THIS BOOK!
Pearl Ruled: CASE HISTORIES by KATE ATKINSONRating: 2* of five (p102)First of the hugely popular Jackson Brodie series of mysteries set in Scotland, this book comes super-positively blurbed by Stephen King, recommended by site royalty, and could not possibly have left me more flat, uninterested, and even impatient."The rain's easing off," he said, and Caroline said, "Yes, I think it is." He stood up and escorted her outside.
The dogs had been asleep and now made a great performance of welcoming Caroline's appearance, although she knew they couldn't care less really."Good-bye, then," John Burton said and shook her hand again.
The rubbish about the dogs is ridiculous, but the wave, the wobble, and the swoon are pretty good.
The subject matter was often compelling and I deeply appreciated her focus mostly on character rather than plot (which was an especially good choice not only because it played to Atkinson's strengths in psychological drama, but because was pretty easy to guess the resolution of each plot not long after it appeared).
And she definitely committed to her unlikeable characters until the end.But it's only worth it to go unlikeable if you also make your characters believable at the same time- why do it if you're not trying to capture pyschological realism, the sort that people flinch away from acknowledging, but actually indulge in every day of their lives?
Novels gave you a completely false idea about life, they told lies and they implied there were endings when in reality there were no endings, everything just went on and on and on.” I have been in a reading slump but this book was exactly what I needed… I wanted a cool crime novel; I got that and something very different...
*Kate Atkinson* managed to have a very cool, dark comical style which just blended well, her characters were fleshed out and sort of morphed into real people.
I loved the characterization this how crime writers should write their characters.
This is the second of Atkinson's Jackson Brodie mystery novels I've read.
We see the story through multiple viewpoints, with Jackson being the center point and ultimately a sort of slightly flawed moral compass.I am amazed at what Atkinson has accomplished with this book, keeping all these stories alive and bouncing in the air with multiple narrators along side the central narrator.
And doing this, she keeps the reader not only engaged but anxious to know what is going to happen next and to whom.
Part of me wonders if it's a 5.Recommended for anyone who would like to read a literate mystery.
I really liked this. It's not your conventional detective mystery; despite a missing toddler and two murders, its emphasis is on the characters rather than the crimes.Detective Jackson Brodie is dealing with his own emotional baggage, as are the various family members of the three cold cases he's investigating. The result is tragic, quirky, confusing, surprising, frustrating, compelling. I read it in two sittings, such is its complex pull.Recommended if you like something a little different.
Amazingly good. I didn't want to put it down and I didn't, until I finished the book, 48 hours after beginning, Phew! I'm not a fast reader but I found this a real page turner. It isn't a thriller, but it's a fantastic mystery. I read it and listened to it. The narrator of the audiobook was excellent. It won't be long before I read the next one in the series. I just have to catch my breath first.
However, in Case Histories, we meet these characters long before we meet the detective and we continue to walk in their shoes for the entire length of the book.
We see much more of their lives than we normally would in a detective novel and, in this way, the book becomes less about solving the crimes (although that is dealt with, obviously) and more about how to keep living after the loss of a loved one shatters your existence into pieces.The story isn’t told in a linear fashion; the timeline jumps about a fair bit, filling in missing pieces of the plot as it goes.
I'm only giving this book two stars, but it's really better than that.
The characters all end up interacting in various ways with Jackson Brodie, a private detective hired to look into the cases for various reasons.
The problem I had with the book is that it's a mystery novel, in essence, but the author never lets you, the reader, figure out the mysteries for yourself.
There are one or two things that you could figure out, but by and large, the cases themselves hinge on evidence not presented to the reader until the detective has already figured it out.
The sweet youngest daughter in the family goes missing one hot summer night.
A lawyer's teenage daughter is killed in a senseless act of violence at his workplace.
A mother goes crazy after the birth of her daughter and goes to jail for killing her husband.
They have all landed on the desk of private investigator Jackson Brodie.
His wife has remarried, his precocious daughter is dressing way beyond her years, and the strange cat lady keeps calling.
But all the cases are converging and Brodie keeps finding out things the original investigators missed, and now someone wants to end his life too.
This 2004 story is set in Cambridge, England and concerns the mysteries surrounding three cold cases.
In a third case from 1979, the murderer was convicted - 18 year old Michelle Fletcher had hacked to death her husband, but what had happened to her infant daughter after being put into the care of her grandparents?The thread that holds these three disparate cases together is 45 year old Jackson Brodie, private investigator, and former police detective.
In a short space of time, Jackson’s languishing business has turned around, and he is dashing from one case to another, losing sleep and getting hurt along the way.
Hodge-podge jumbles sad incoherent unpleasant British murders and warped porn glimpses into a dark vision of humanity.
The least hint of warmth, love, is buried, more by atrocities of average citizens gone wrong than extreme villainy, like Holocaust butcher next-door.
I lasted for some of the exposition, then skipped to find closure.
(view spoiler)[For example, we learn the vanished girl's abusive father buried her, then see her slightly older sister, who had fits and heard God, smother her trying to silence her, then asked their sire to take care of the body.
(hide spoiler)]BBC drama supposed to be based on book, hope improvement.http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EdVvxg...
Gahhh, what a mess.
I've heard a lot about Kate Atkinson, most of it amazing, but this does not tempt me to read any more of her books...
Though it could be worse, I suppose.
At least she can string a coherent sentence together.NOTE: I have since read Life After Life and it is worlds away from this mess.
Her writing there is wry and delicate, the story strung together with warmth and ease and I actually can't believe the same author wrote this book.
Still, I'm glad I didn't give up on her completely - I suppose A God in Ruins is next!
When I read Life After Life a few weeks ago, I so fully admired its craft that Kate Atkinson led me to use a new set of critical questions as I leapt through the chapters.
Its parts seemed folded over each other, not assembled in any usual, contiguous structure, like origami applied to narrative, but not with experimental arrogance.
Then I remembered another fresh novel that recently led me toward this new sort of collaboration with an unconventional narrative: The Orphan-Master's Son. Perhaps I am becoming a better and more patient reader, or I am discovering more complexity and more illusions of insight as I progress.
Great book, absolutely enthralling mystery read...Three intertwined stories which involve a disappearance, a death, and another disappearance, and though it seems at first that the three aren't 'related' to one another...Well, they are!
And it's up to Jackson Brodie, a somewhat reluctant, slightly-jaded PI, who was in the police force (so he has 'contacts' here and there, always helpful in a book of this type), to figure out what's up.
(Or an entire fistful of index cards!) It's complex, yet straightforward in that the reader never gets lost.Then why four stars and not five?
That's not to say the plot is an afterthought -- it manages to weave together three or four stories of tragic death over the course of several decades, and does it rather well, even if, in the end, the answers aren't wholly satisfying.It is, most surprisingly, a very funny book (very British), with likeable and amusing characters, but Atkinson seems a bit nervous about backgrounding the mystery angle to the point where she decides to put in another layer of confusion by mucking about with time.
We meet many characters, most of which I absolutely LOVED.
Kate Atkinson does a fabulous job developing these characters, flaws and all.While most of the cases do get resolved by the end, there is one that is left un-resolved, hoping that she brings this back up in a future book, since this is a series.
Loved the banter between Amelia and Julia, sisters torn apart by little Olivia, the sister that vanished into the night when she was just a little girl.
Crazy cat lady Binky Rain continues to haunt the reader, and Laura Wyre's tragic demise is heartbreaking, but it is her realtionship with Theo, her ravaged father that torn my heart apart the most.
An unlikely mix of nasty murders, sexual abuse and wild black humour that reminded me a little of Fay Weldon.
Third read of this and it gets better each time.
So I was both looking forward to this … and a little afraid of it, because you know a good tv series doesn't necessarily mean a good book, and vice versa.
So I was very happy when the from the first disc this book engaged me, made me laugh, made me feel sympathy for the characters – and made me really, really love (or at least root for) Jackson Brodie.
It takes a little while before the scene which made me say "Ohhhhhhh…" – and while this might drive me up a wall with some books, I have to admire Kate Atkinson's skills.
He is called upon to work on several cases that prove to be intertwined: An old woman (Binky) thinks someone is stealing her cats.
A man (Theo) asks him to find the killer of his daughter (Laura).
A woman (Shirley) asks him to find her sister's (Michelle's) child (Tanya)- telling him that Michelle murdered her husband, went to prison, and then vanished upon her release.
Shirley is actually the murderer of Michelle's husband, and she does not reveal this to Jackson.
The person attempting to kill Jackson is Quintus, Binky's only remaining blood relative.
Her sister wants Jackson to find Tanya, the niece she promised to care for.
Ms. Atkinson’s book was an absolute delight to read.
We get to know them all but particularly Jackson is revealed to us as the story unfolds.
In some ways, this isn’t the easiest book to read just from the way it is structured, and it’s not a gripping page-turner in the usual sense.
It is, however, a page-turner in that I became so involved with the stories, I had to know what would happen next and resolution to each case.
