https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33724.Can_You_Keep_a_Secret_
i actually went to a nearby cafe right after buying this from the store just so that i could begin.which turned out to be a bad idea cos it was literally difficult to keep a straight face once i read the first few chapters.you ever had that experience when something is really really funny but you can't laugh outright or even smile cos people around you will start getting wary?
i just wanted to skip on the next scene where he'll appear--i can't wait what next secret he'll be dangling for Emma to squirm over.it's not even your run-of-the-mill chick-lit cos there were some parts that became serious they were heartbreaking.
This was so funny and cute! It didn't blow me away, but I was in the mood for a rom-com style read and that's exactly what this was! Definitely looking forward to reading more Sophie Kinsella when I need something lighthearted and fun.
I've never had a desire to read Bridget Jones' Diary or The Devil Wears Prada (although I do hate to admit that I actually liked Devil as a movie) I mean, it's Chick Lit. Fluff without the smut.
I practically sighed with exasperation over the flighty, bumbling, office girl who embarrasses herself in front of her boss without knowing who he is.
look.It took several chapters for me to warm up to the book and truth be told, if I hadn't promised myself that I wanted to finish at least one chick lit book just to say that I had given the genre a shot, I would have quit out before getting to the part where it started to get good.
Goal: Read a light book and laugh my ass off.Result: Read a stupid book that made me want to cut it into little pieces.Overall Goal: Happiness.Overall Result: A sh*tty headache.All my friends gave Can You Keep A Secret?
a high score, all of them loved it, all of them asked me to read it.So I did.Yep. And I ended up having a headache.
Mrs. Kinsella you owe me a pack of meds and a nice foot massage.So why did all my friends love this book and I didn’t?
”'Please promote me,' I say desperately.
I have to get a promotion to impress my family.
Two point five-ish stars ^^Quirky, hilarious read about a 25 year old clumsy, silly, awkward Emma who is always caught in the most embarrassing situations and thinking she’s probably not yet embarrassed enough, spewed out every single one of her deepest, darkest most embarrassing secrets to a stranger on a plane when she thought they were going to die during a violent turbulence.
It’s my first Sophie Kinsella read and although it wasn’t completely successful, I have a feeling I’ll enjoy her YA novel, Finding Audrey more.
Despite the few stars, I enjoyed the read so it’s all good.
I'm not really 100% into Chick-Lit, but this is one of those books that I've seen pop up over and over again on all the Best Of lists over the years, and I've grown quite curious.No, seriously.
Supposedly, this was a HI-LARIOUS rom-com, and I was in the market for exactly that.However.Sometimes what makes me smile doesn't match up with everyone else in the room...So was it funny?Yes. No.
Kinda?I mean, it wasn't the sort of humor that had me doubled over, gasping for breath, but there were cute moments.
<--if that makes sense?BUT.Even though this wasn't exactly what I was initially looking for, I still had a reallyreallyreally good time reading it!
This was such a fun and entertaining book! I laughed out loud multiple times and I also cringed several times because of how embarrassed I was for Emma.My only problem with this book is that I felt like it could have been longer! It felt rushed at times and I wished there was more of an ending. I wanted to know how it all came together and like, for example, how Kerry was doing (terribly, I hope).Nevertheless, I really enjoyed reading this book and I can't wait to read more of her novels in the future!
OMG, this book is laugh out loud funny, like sitting in my cubicle at work just giggling to myself.
Some of my best friends raved about this book during our girls weekend last year and I was repeatedly told, you have to read this!Emma Corrigan is a typical girl, just like us or me at least.
All her secrets are out, some as small as hating g-strings and the coffee at work, to her insecurities with her family and lesbian dream she had about her best friend.
It’s so funny, it's freaking cute as shit and the love stories is so sweet.
Gosh, this books was so much fun!!!Often times when I’m told a book is  funny,  I usually find that it turns out being more painful to read than anything.
But damn, is Sophie Kinsella hilarious!
Can You Keep a Secret  follows the charismatic tale of Emma Corrigan.
It was such an easy read and really brought on that little bits of glee that usually accompany a great book.
But there were parts of the book that I found excessive.
. .I was never a huge fan of chick-lit but after reading this one, I’m definitely not done with this genre or this author!
I’m gonna spill all your secrets to my friends, Emma.
hahaha1st secret: Guys..
See what she did!BUT HAHAHAHAAAAAAA….2rd secret: The plane got turbulence so she thinks she gonna die!!!
to that guy like a naked girl.
Yess the guy she unintentionally spill all her ( top ) secrets to is her CEO.……………………………………………………..This book is funny!
This Emma Corrigan kinda reminds me of Meg Cabot’s heroine, Idk. Hahaha She is clumsy, whinny, and funny that made me laugh so hard until having face palms for her.
Nahh… I just want something like this happen real to my life!
The ending left me entirely unsatisfied and highly doubtful about the future of Emma and Jack, as a couple and otherwise.
It would have been the perfect ending had this been a series, but since it's a stand-alone novel, I got the distinct impression that there were still several chapters left, and they were simply missing from the version of the book I read.
Emma is a lot better at confrontations and standing up for herself than the other two heroines of Kinsella's I've read, namely Poppy from I've Got Your Number: A Novel and Lexi from Remember Me?
Although I wouldn’t go into so much detail as Emma did in “Can You Keep A Secret?”Once again Sophie Kinsella delivers a heroine that we want to cheer for and chastise at the same time!
Fearing a plane crash, The heroine spills all her deepest secrets to a total stranger.
(hide spoiler)] This is a delicious book!There were some very hilarious moments in this story.
All in her head of course.
I think we all like a lovable loser, don't we?Not much I can say about the hero, just another closed-mouth guy, but he did come through in the end.

I skimmed Confessions of a Shopaholic a few years ago before I saw the movie but I'm probably going to go back and read it now because the characters in this book had such real voices.
Like I might not have the same personality as Emma, but I could still relate to her just because she was so entertaining and likable.Basically, Emma drinks a bit too much on a flight with turbulence and ends up spilling all of her secrets in a panicked rush to the guy sitting next to her...
I swear the moment I was done with this book...I was just so..soo.. SO DAMN FRUSTRATED The ending seemed so...lacking? Disappointing? Hell ! Fr the first time,in my history of reading books.I actually ended up hating the hero Jack,(view spoiler)[(who spilled all her secrets on NATIONAL TELEVISION ), (hide spoiler)] instead of the heroine,along with her cousin Kerry (who basically STOLE THE HEROINE'S ENTIRE CHILDHOOD) and her fashion/mommy obsessed roommate Jemima (who basically spent the whole b


This was really cute and funny! A great lighthearted read. Review to come!
I saw this on my Nook and remembered you said it's her best book.
Can he keep her secrets?I've gotten to the point where I feel like if you have reviewed one Sophie Kinsella book you have reviewed them all.
Laugh out loud humor, a loveable but usually quite clueless heroine, some barely there romance, and a picture perfect ending.
I like knowing what to expect, but I would also like a bit of surprise with the ending.
Why bother giving the heroines a boyfriend at the start of the book?
All's fine until Emma goes to work on Monday to find out that the passenger is the CEO of Panther Cooperation.Can You Keep a Secret?
I do have to give Jemima props for trying to help.Emma's family play a huge part in Can You Keep a Secret?
Connor works in another division at Panther Cooperation.
It didn't help that the co-workers didn't bother to see it from Emma' point of view.Connor also tries multiple times to confront Emma about who she is dating.
When Jack appears in at the Panther Cooperation, he spends quite a bit of time poking fun at Emma's secrets.
Bien bonito. Divertido 😂 a morir y muy ligero. De los que te entretienen y te hacen pasar muy buen rato.No hay mucho romance pero eso es típico en las novelas de este estilo. Me gustó bastante. Pero no es mi favorito de la autora!!!
The basic idea is, imagine what would happen if in a moment of panic you were to spill all your darkest secrets to a perfect stranger and of course that stranger was extremely attractive and turned out to be a new big shot at your company, genius uh?
When Emma spills it all out it makes you want to cover your eyes with your hands and tell her:The fun, as always with Kinsella standalone novels, is guaranteed and the romance is just witty and cute.(view spoiler)[ The cousin was so bad!!!
In the final retribution moment I was yeah!
(hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
2.5 stars - SpoilersThis was kind of fun but also kind of awful, as expected the heroine was an utter idiot and the plot was beyond silly, but I have to admit that there were some funny moments and the story despite being nonsensical was easy to get through and somewhat entertaining.-Who the hell would reveal ALL their secrets to a total stranger?
-Emma's parents were such dicks, they treated her like crap and never showed her any love or support.
And silly cow Emma immediately accepted their apology and was over the top grateful for them finally acting like half decent parents.
2.5 stars"it was ok" is seriously such an accurate description of this book.
good job, description-that-hovers-over-the-2-star-rating!emma, our main character, is monumentally irritating.
she compulsively lies about things that she shouldn't have to lie about, and is so horrendously unprofessional in her workplace, it's a wonder that she's maintained her job for as long as she has.
i think there's a marked improvement in the book's storytelling and humor past the halfway mark, which is quite a commitment tbh.
it takes a while for the humor to be funny, but when it gets there, it's great.
3.5 starsAlright, I've been reading romance novels off late.
Did Emma get on my nerves by whining too much?
Sure.
Sure.
But thing is, this woman knows how to pen chick-lit.
Emma, who I'm sure suffers from some form of anxiety, spills all her secrets to the gorgeous American sitting next to her.
Like the boss man, boss; he owns the company she works for.
Emma is your run of the mill, regular, working class girl.
And she has secrets.
But yeah, like every chick-lit books, they beat the odds together.
Still, you know, this makes for a pleasing read.
Can You Keep a Secret is possibly my favorite Kinsella standalone.It follows the story of Emma, an ordinary, slightly ditzy girl (think Anna from Anna and the French Kiss) who accidentally spills all her secrets to a stranger on the plane.
In honor of this book—and because I absolutely suck at writing reviews for books I love, I am going to spill to you, strangers of the Internet, all of my secrets.
I love Kinsella's work.
The problems work themselves out most of the time and the MC and Mr. Businessman go home happy and schmooze.But at the same time, they're also fun, compulsively readable, and keep me up reading til 2am on a school night because I can't stop flipping the pages.
After having read and adored Something Borrowed and Something Blue I thought I wasn't giving enough credit to this genre, I thought there were some good books on it out there.
The only character I did like was the Hero and we never really get to know him.
Just don't read more books in this genre...
I'll try another book of this author because I just can't believe everybody likes her so much and I enjoyed this book so little, maybe it was just the topic.
Are all of Sophie Kinsella's books this formulaic? Every day gal, coming across a handsome, eligible, scrumptious boss? This installment we have Emma, working in marketing come across the CEO. Will it be a happy ever after, who knows?! Kooky flatmates, the tube, bitchy office workers, there's a bit of the usual here.These suite the purpose though, as I always say. Easy reading to the extreme.
Philippines is composed of of 7,107 islands..) We went to a supermarket before going to our campsite to buy some basic stuffs.One of my friends, Jeffrey was with me.(I don't know why he keeps on tagging along with me)I know my period is just around the corner so I was looking for some tampons.
Bad: the store is SO big I can't find where they put the fucking tampons and I'm having a hard time looking for it.
I wanted to punch the son-of-a-gun and maybe cripple him a little but I can't because he was one of the people I love so much and no matter how embarrassing that scenario was, my fondness for him was bigger than the mortification.
Sophie Kinsella's characters tend to have that effect on me.But then it got better and I especially loved the way Emma matured throughout the book and stood up for herself often.When they were on their first date and Jack was ordering everything for Emma and basically controlling everything, Emma started yelling at him for it, I was like you go girl!
Anyways, everything (view spoiler)[worked out great (hide spoiler)] in the end, and I was happy :DI also loved the way Jack's mindset grew and developed after associating and spending time with Emma!
BR WITH AKIRA!
Bo this was fun!I really liked this book!
It was hilarious and Despite the second hand embarrassment it was very funny!
Emma herself as a character is very flawed and might make you face-palm every other page or so, but nonetheless, she's very likeable.
The only thing that bothered me a bit is how every fucking time when shit seems to go smoothly a problem arises.
And it's more annoying because you already know what kind of ending this will have, but still, you need to suffer along through many problems and conflicts.
But overall it was a really fun read!
