https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14014.Arrow_s_Fall
For better or worse, this trilogy in general and this book in particular are built around the character of Talia.
This means that the novel is really good when Talia is at her best and it is extremely frustrating read when she is at her worst.
I will have to repeat myself, but the character of Talia is brilliant.
This is about the ability to overcome all the obstacles and care about the welfare of other human beings no matter how miserable you are at the moment - there was a scene in this novel which shows this clearly.
Setting/World Building: 4/5. Main Character: 4/5Other Characters: 3/5. Kind of disappointed by the lack of depth to the villains.Plot: 2/5Writing: 2/5Triggering/Issues: 2/5. Character death, but even worse, rape followed by torture (of the sexual sadist variety). Also triggering is the way the aftermath is handled (or rather, the way it isn't really handled at all). AVERAGED TOTAL:  3.1 out of 5, rounded to 3. 2.8 out of 5, rounded down to 2, after a few days had passed and I was still mad.Oh, h
She's then tortured by the 'baddies' of the book (who were unfortunately very one-dimensional so far), who of course are sexual sadists who get off on torturing her, which feels to her (in her own words) like being raped all over again.And it never gets better, it really is all downhill from there.
I assume that's to carry over into the next trio of books but frankly, it seemed kind of half-assed, like she just cut them off so she could end with the wedding.Even worse, the rape and it's effects on her are literally never handled.

This book is actually the best of the three as far as being an actual fantasy novel - we have a real mage-war, lifebonding, near-death experiences, use of Gifts, and some political intrigue.
Unfortunately, all this excitement literally happens in the final third of the book.
The villain could be promising, and Lackey attempts to add a few plot twists using previous characters and mages, but it is all so poorly developed as to feel forced.
However, her Herald-Mage series - the only other Lackey books I have read thus far - is superior, but again has angst problems.
It all felt like a big build up to nothing.
The entire series, even this finale, felt like the main character encountered a problem then solved it, then encounters a new one, and solves it.
In this book, the main bad guy is defeated rather handily, without much fan fair, actually.
The secondary bad guy who might have held some depth besides just being evil, turns out to just be evil after all, and instead of a satisfying confrontation and resolution, he's quickly killed.
It felt like they were together because they were SUPPOSE to be, because of their lifebond, not because they actually fell in love or even really liked each other all that much.
The ending scene for this trilogy is perfection. I am so happy 💘💘
That’s pretty much all I have to say – it’s a tie for my favorite book out of all three (the tie being with the first).I think Mercedes Lackey read my previous reviews, because the pacing went up by a considerable amount.
She came a long way from Arrows of the Queen, and I loved seeing the entire process from the Brat to Elspeth-in-the-third-book.About a fourth into the novel, the plot really picks up.
No matter how many times I read this series/novel, the one thing that will never change is how I feel about...
Talia truly and properly comes into her own, facing all sorts of challenges and meeting them all head on.
I did like the part with Elspeth, since her dodging Talia was a nice parallel to Hulda's work to keep Elspeth away from Talia in the first book.The story gets much better once Talia and Kris set off to investigate the neighboring kingdom.
While it isn't depicted in a creepy, all too loving way like it is in some gross novels, it still isn't an element I enjoy reading about.
The other two books clearly show how hard and trying the life a Herald is.
She still has to deal with the political drama that she had left behind, and the enemy in the dark who has been trying to chip away at her from the very first day she came to the Herald Collegium.
It may being going back in time, but it explains a lot of things about the loss of Herald-mages and the "protection" that Valdemar has.
This is the strongest book in the trilogy, I think - the stakes are raised significantly, and there is some resolution to the major plot threads.
And the pacing is super weird - the major resolution comes two thirds of the way through the book, and there's quite a bit of Return to the Shire-style resolution that makes the book trail off rather than come to a measured halt.I hate to sound like I really dislike these books, because I respect them in a lot of ways and they were the springboard for much better and more interesting work later on, but I would still not suggest them to adult readers without a lot of caveats.
She finally gets back to Haven to serve as Queen’s Own Herald, and try to work her love life out.
There’s trouble over the border with Hardorn—the prince has sent a marriage proposal for Elspeth, heir to the throne—but the queen is wary because of her own history.
So the queen sends Talia and that handsome Herald to check out Hardorn.
They arrive just as the prince makes his move, assassinating his father, killing Kris, and taking Talia captive.
Her lover teleports her out of her prison long-distance, and they catch the traitor in the Valdemar court and stop the prince at the
Being home sick gives you lots of time to read books about magical horses.
This one isn't as strong as the previous, but in my stuffed-up state it was entertaining enough.(view spoiler)[A lot of the rape stuff rubbed me the wrong way.
I wished a little more time had been dedicated to Talia's recovery at the end, when she discovered that she couldn't be touched without picturing her rapists, but instead it was just like "just go away for a few weeks, and when you come back she'll be fine!" And she was.
(hide spoiler)]
The final book in the first trilogy of Valdemar books.
As I was expecting, this book was quite a bit better than the middle book.
Overall I found the whole plot a little bit to simplistic and obvious from the start.
The identity of the bad guy had been hinted at since book 1, and there was really only one possible suspect.
Another thing that bothered me was that these books didn't seem to know what category they were in.
There are many more Valdemar novels but I don't think they will ever be on my reading list.
** 8th re-read in Jan 2017This series is mature young adult.
There's a huge amount of peripheral characters and a couple one-off books to give you backstory on specific individuals.This first trilogy (Arrows) follows Talia, a young and shy girl from a rough area that isn't known for treating women well.
Italia gets "chosen" by one of the magical horse/companions of Valdemar to become a Herald.Next trilogy follows Princess Elsbeth who is a recurring character in this first three books.Magical fantasy world.
Battles, war & redemption are common themes.I enjoy this series every time I read it.Absolutely recommended!
this whole trilogy underwhelmed me.
the writing wasn't fantastic, it was a little simplistic both in plot and in character development.
there was a lot of telling, not a lot of showing; there was barely a time when i felt any emotional connection to any of the characters.
that said, the plot wasn't awful, the world creation was decent, and i think if the different plot threads had all been woven together instead of brought up and dealt with episodically the entire trilogy would have been much more cohesive and interesting.
A nice conclusion to the Arrows series. Like Arrow's Flight, it might be more of a 3.5 star book, but I rounded up. I really liked the entire series, even if it was YA and clearly a "first" series. This is the kind of book that brought me into the genre to begin with. I wish I had read it when I was younger, especially for how it handles "adult" topics of death, homosexuality, etc. If this ever came out in audio, I'd read it in a heartbeat.
Lackey needs to grow as a writer here if the Valdemar sequence is going to be worth continuing – her style of communication between characters is affected to the point of annoyance, she clearly wants people reading her book to feel the happiness and the joy of this magical fantasy world, and I did from time to time, but not when the characters kept insisting what wonderful people the heralds all are and especially Talia.Are the books fun, though?
*sobs*First of all, I loved getting back into this world and meeting Talia, Rolan, Kris, Tantris, Dirk and all the others again.
*hrmpf* Also, (and that might be my sadness/bitterness speaking because see below) it's a bit convenient how that got resolved...
:/And then, then Kris and Tantris got killed and, I, just, *sobs*.
Even though, there is a scene that gives me a bit of hope (when Talia is feverish and hallucinates Kris).
And Dirk also is understanding and makes sure Talia is okay on their wedding night.So, yeah, overall I really liked it but it also left me with some sadness.
3.5 starsI didn’t like this one as much as the others. It felt very slow. I’m also so confused because I’m p sure this is a trilogy but it ended with them still in war? What’s going to happen with Ancar?
Estaría bien un Viaje de la Heroína que no incluyese una paradita en el País de las Violaciones. Se me han quitado las ganas de seguir con la serie.
Oh Talia, how I have come to care for you, Elspeth, Dirk, Skif, Kris and even the Companions by the end of this book!
I remember when I first read Owlflight, I adored Darian and his angst filled story.
I didn't think another character could compare, but Talia came close!
It was just so damn sad!-Sigh- so ends my read of the beginning of Valdemar, but not the end for me.
It has reawakened my love for this series, and now I need more!
There aren't enough Valdemar books to quench this thirst, but I will try.
Moving on to the next series, but not without regret.
Or read it and be warned since like I said it's not in graphic detail.
But because it was so grim it did leave me wanting to keep reading to find out what would happen next and also because I enjoy reading the comfort side of things after a character is hurt...It had a very saccharine ending which I guess is expected???
I 100% want to read some of the spin off books now.
But I think I am content enough with this book to leave the story of Talia alone.
I have not read either of the preceding books in this particular Trilogy, and yet I felt like I knew Talia and her cohort very well just a short way into the book.
I thought they were very tastefully written so as to convey the horror of Talia's trials and the disgusting horribleness of the villains, and I thought the way things were handled afterwards re: recovery from abuse were not inauthentic although perhaps a bit simplified.
In short, yes these horrible things have an affect on Talia like sexual and physical abuse do IRL and this is mitigated and healed in much the same way it would be on a non-Herald IRL.
The writing seems dumbed down in this series, but it was bearable in the first two volumes.I appreciate that some of the seemingly stand-alone events in book 2 of this trilogy come full circle and the book got good for a few pages towards the last third, but it was very hard to slog through.
Basically, every conversation is a discussion about a simple problem, such as "It's cold".
We all would have died of the cold had it not been for Talia.
Whoever would have thought to use fire for warmth?"Maybe the problem is that aside from the Collegium and a way-station, we haven't seen much of Valdemar.
She called those her "candy novels"- little substance, quick and enjoyable reads, but they don't quite fill you up intellectually.No offense intended, but Mercedes Lackey provides my "candy novels".
The writing, plot line, character development and other literary elements are far superior in my opinion to any romance novel I've ever remotely considered reading...
That is simply because of their genre and intended / target audience.In any case, the fact that these books stand up to my enjoyment after numerous re-readings over the course of more than 10 years.
Quick, entertaining, exciting reads for adults or adolescents.
This was by far my favorite book in the trilogy.
The fact that just when I thought I had things figured out the author threw me an unexpected ccurve ball that had me on the edge of my seat waiting to se how the characters interacted to both the events and reacted to one another.This book ripped my heart out and slowly mended it back together with it's romance, tragedy, and even sometimes humor.
It was jsut as the first a page turner that left me laughing, crying and feeling an overwhelming sense of urgancy to see just how this book was going to end.
This, along with Arrows of the Queen, is one of those books that I go back to whenever I have a gap in my reading and an afternoon or so to fill, not wanting to dig into anything more substantial.
It's a satisfying end to the trilogy, while still leaving the way for the series that she wrote about Valdemar after that.
Elspeth's story in the Winds and Storm series in particular are teed up nicely.
Make no mistake about it being a brutal book, though, with a whole section of rape and torture, although it's mostly left to the imagination (always the most effective way).
I was split on this book.
The first third (or maybe half) frustrated me a lot.
I hate it when characters hide their thoughts and feelings from their closest friends rather than coming out and just discussing things.
It always makes things worse (didn't Talia and Kris learn anything from the previous book??).
On the other hand, the second half of the book totally made up for it.
You know things are not going to go well, but just how quickly and suddenly everything comes to a head is crazy.
It totally caught me off guard.
I like how Talia grew through all three novels and Lackey certainly made me feel for her characters.
This author's and series greatest flaw is arguably that she creates a very black and white world, with villains in the twirl-the-mustache mold, and this is no exception.
Combined with the appealing characters, I loved the magical world Lackey created--a group of heroes of various backgrounds drawn together because they are the chosen of their companions--magical horses who are their full partners.
But I still enjoyed rereading this even as an adult: a good escapist read.
This book was much better than the first two.
A lot more satisfying.
More action, better character building.
I did get tired of the whole "I wonder what so and so is thinking, feeling...
It just makes me want to scream "OUT WITH IT FOR PETE'S SAKE!!!" All and all, just this one book makes me want to read more from Lackey now.
I think this series was some of her begining books, and I've a couple of her books that I've loved.
I've also read some other reviews saying that Talia (the main character) is one of their favorites.
