https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5288.Wit_and_Wisdom
I adore Oscar Wilde, he had the most brilliant mind of his age! I love this book... all this beautiful quotes gathered in one place! Love it!“Yes: I am a dreamer. For a dreamer is one who can only find his way by moonlight, and his punishment is that he sees the dawn before the rest of the world.” Oscar Wilde
Most people exist, that is all.”“When I am in trouble, eating is the only thing that consoles me.
It is a great fault.” “It is only about things that do not interest one that one can give a really unbiased opinion, which is, no doubt, the reason why an unbiased opinion is always absolutely valueless.
The man who sees both sides of a question is a man who sees absolutely nothing at all.”“Thinking is the most unhealthy thing in the world, and people die of it just as they die of any other disease.
~To live is the rarest thing in the world. Most people exist__ that is all.Irrespective of the fact, whether I agree with all his thoughts or not. But I love his writing style and He's the wittiest writer of all times. :')
The smooth flowing utterance, sedate and self-possessed, oracular in tone, whimsical in substance, carried on without halt, or hesitation or change of word with the queer zest of a man perfect at the game.This book an excellent one for anyone to understand and appreciate the impromptu wacky wit of Oscar Wilde.
One occasion took place in America when a lady told him something was 'awfully nice'.'But 'nice' is a such a nasty word ,' said a bored- looking Wilde'Really, Mr. Wilde?', she responded.
Some of my absolute favourites are....."Either those curtains go or I do""A gentleman is one who never hurts anyone's feelings unintentionally""A true friend stabs you in the front""Always forgive your enemies - nothing annoys them so much""Experience is simply the name we give our mistakes"
Some examples: Good taste is the excuse I've always given for leading such a bad life.
It is the only thing that makes life worth living.
Life can only be lived.
It is absurd to divide people into good or bad.
No great artist sees things as they really are.
The only portraits in which one believes are portraits where there is very little of the sitter and a very great deal of the artist.
I hate people who talk about themselves, as you do, when one wants to talk about oneself, as I do.
Com a leitura deste livro, compreende-se a vastidão de temas que este escritor, Oscar Wilde,tão aclamado, envolvia no seu trabalho, integrando toda a filosofia advinda desse mesmo trabalho na sua vida e vice-versa.
Um único apontamento negativo a este livro é a repetição excessiva de citações para uma obra tão curta, de tão poucas páginas.
O editor parece ter forçado a divisão de citações para que se encaixassem em vários temas, o que tira algum entusiasmo ao livro, pois faz o leitor, neste caso a mim, temer voltar a encontrar num curto espaço de folhas ideias que já tinha lido.
An absolute genius!
His extremely wise words miraculously work in today's societies.
Granted, not all of his quotes are in this book, but a whole lot of them are.
I do adore books, and love to keep them crease-free and in pristine condition, but perhaps with this one I will highlight the quotes I simply adore the most.
Oscar Wilde; I'm so glad I have discovered your genius, and only regret not finding out about you sooner.
Having already read Dorian Gray (which I've removed from my Goodreads 'read' list as I want to re-visit it) I can't wait to read the rest of his works.
i may not always agree with his statements, but i'll be damned if he isn't the wittiest man i've ever read.
This is my guide to life.
我滿喜歡Wilde的誠實不過他的想法有時候有一點無恥、讓我覺得很刺激、可能是因為他面對現實。
For all of you quote-alcholics, this is the book for you. With quotes upon quotes from all of his novels, you will dive into this book whole heartly. With a subject by subject notion, this book is divided into subjects such as (women, men, politics, parents, smoking) etc. Fun book, quick, read, for all of you who love to quote authors.
Oscar Wilde is always my inspiration. He must have been witty, funny and wise back then. And I will re-read this again, and again :))
charming and wise
Brittany bought this for me! Best present ever.
A wonderful collection of some of the best aphorisms ever spoken from one of the wittiest men who ever lived. I can't get enough of Oscar's quotations.
A must-read for all Oscar Wilde fans.
More than the messages that some of the quotations convey, is the genius behind their structure that appeals me.
A short and sweet sample of one of my favorite authors. I'll definitely be reading this again.
Oscar is the quintessential wit-clever, biting, and wise. His wit can never be over-rated. A must.
Some of my favorites:On Literature:"There is a great deal to be said in favor of reading a novel backwards.
The last page is, as a rule, the most interesting and when one begins with the catastrophe or denouement one feels on pleasant terms of equality with the author.""To know the vintage and quality of a wine one need not drink the whole cask.
It must be perfectly easy in half an hour to say whether a book is worth anything or worth reading.
One tastes it, and that is quite enough."Quips:"When I am in trouble, eating is the only thing that consoles me.
Indeed, when I am in really great trouble...I refuse everything except food and drink."
Witty and humorous. Replete with Oscar Wilde. It delivered as advertised. I stole a lot of quotes from it, too. And an entire philosophy.
An interesting collection of Wilde's wit & humor as promised in the title.Enjoyable for those readers who line quite collection or have an interest in Wilde.
Master of WritingWilde tells Truth with most fascinating style of writing ! He exquisitely reveals the hidden face of human society. One should read all of his literature
Wonderful quotes giving full insight into various themes and subjects as seen by the ever witty Oscar Wilde.
This book truly shows the wit of Oscar Wilde and gives insight into his views on various topics. Any true Wilde fan must pick it up!
For a dreamer is one who can only find his way by moonlight, and his punishment is that he sees the dawn before the rest of the world."-The Picture of Dorian Gray"To become a spectator of one's own life is to escape the suffering of life.""We live in an age that reads too much to be wise, and thinks too much to be beautiful." "There is no such thing as a moral or inmoral book.
when gods wish to punish us they answer our prayers."-The Soul of Man Under Socialism "To live is the rarest thing in the world.
~Frank Harris, Wilde biographerI love quotes and I love Oscar Wilde.
So what could be better than The Wit & Humor of Oscar Wilde collected and edited by Alan Redman?
The collection presents Wilde's wit and sense of humor at its finest.
Redman has done his research--combing Wilde's plays, poems, fairy tales, and correspondence to produce an exhaustive, completely authenticated work.
There have been many quotes attributed to Wilde that you will not find here for the simple reason that Redman could find no authentic source confirming that Wilde first said them.
A funny and interesting book--just right for the quote-lovers and fans of Wilde alike.
After reading The Picture of Dorian Gray it would only make sense to continue with some more Wilde.
This is a book about Wilde's aphorisms divided by topics.
Needless to say I underlined nearly the whole and when I have sometime I will totally come here and write the quoted down.
After the shallowness and disgust for women I saw in his preview book I read, this was delightful to see another complete face of Wilde.
A more sensitive human being.
note to self: there is a biographical movie called Wilde I totally show check out.
Sometimes, when you take a quote out of context, the humor is lost.
Quotes and one-liners are tossed around all the time that no one knows came from Wilde, but they enjoy it anyway.I find it incredibly amusing that he was the one who said, 'Every saint has a past, every sinner has a future', because churches in my area have begun using it....
I'm sure if they knew the source was a man convicted of sodomy, they wouldn't use that quote anymore.All in all, amusing and often true.
Really, we should all just read his plays, but if you're looking for a particular quote, this is useful.
