https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1140802.Secret_of_the_Andes
This book gets negative attention because it beat out Charlotte's Web for the 1953 Newbery Medal, and looking through the lens of time it's easy to say that it probably should have gone the other way.
I read it as a young boy and loved it, although not as much this time.
What makes this a good children's book is that it teaches about a foreign culture, one that is disappearing and most of us know little about.
In this story it's about the Inca's and passing their knowledge of culture and history on to the young generation through a boy named Cusi.

So therefore, while I do understand and feel for Cusi in this novel and while I have also enjoyed reading about him and his life, his development, his journeys, I for one would definitely have enjoyed reading about Cusi considerably more, if Secret of the Andes had been penned by an author of indigenous, of Incan background or even if Ann Nolan Clark had not even whilst indeed seemingly meaning well, even whilst attempting to paint a positive picture of the Incas, shown so much a tendency to annoying paternalism, and gently smiling patronising, and yes also, if in Secret of the Andes, there were a trifle less details and rhapsodising about Cusi's pet llama Misti, as it does become more than a bit monotonous and frustrating to constantly be reading about her, and the fact that Misti continuously appears almost to be more human than llama (and more wisdom-imbued than many humans), that she even often seems more Incan, more in tune with Incan culture and its legacy than Cusi, than the main protagonist of Secret of the Andes).
I liked it a lot.
I think Cusi is a neat kid, and is upbringing only makes him a little different from any other child.
are there more in some editions?I liked the writing style.
I thought it intentional, as meant to echo the speaking style of people who spend a lot of time in thought, and much of their time speaking doing so in song & other oral traditions.
but I appreciate the tight focus, too.I probably would not have liked this when I was a child.
It's subtle, a bit *L*iterary, not lively.
Otoh, there is a bit of a quest...
Secret of the Andes is a quiet story of an Inca boy growing up in the mountains of Peru, raising llamas.
This boy, Cusi, knows little of his past, and has no home other than the mountains, no family outside his elderly mentor and his llamas.
Time passes and Cusi knows he must leave the mountain, leave his llamas, leave his mentor, and go to the city to seek out his heart’s desire.
Will he find this heart’s desire?
A wonderful little story of the seeking and finding of simple happiness in a big world.
The young shepherd boy Cusi has lived high up in the mountains with only the old shepherd Chuto and their llamas for company.
The people of modern day Peru have the blood of both the Inca and the Spaniards in their veins.
The story portrays them as ordinary people yet they have forgotten their native tongue and the old ways.
I don't know who Ann Nolan Clark is/was but she did an amazing job portraying the history and culture of the Inca people of Peru.
It is very inspirational for modern day Inca people as well.
The Sun god is mentioned a few times throughout the book.
A boy makes a vow and a man stabs his hand to draw a little blood for a blood vow.Parent TakeawayA boy lives in seclusion up in the Andes Mountains.
He must decide whether to become a part of a family, something he's always wanted, or devote himself to living in seclusion up in the mountains in order to preserve the Incan way.
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
Here is a short summary of what happen in this book: There was an orphaned Indian who lived in a hidden valley in Peru with an old man and lots of llamas.
A few days passed and the old man decided that the boy should go trade his llamas for clothes, sandals, etc.
After a while he decided that it didn't feel right living with them so he left the family in the middle of the night and went back to the hidden valley to live his simple life the old man and llamas.
Newbery Medal Winner--1953This was an okay little adventure story. Cusi is a boy who lives high in the moutains with only an old man and a herd of llamas--but there is something special about Cusi. He must go on a journey to find himself, his family, and his home. The story is short and simple...and not bad, I just need a little more excitement to really enjoy an adventure story like this one.
Of course, the Newbery Award has never been intended to single out the most popular or kid-friendly book but it cannot be argued that Charlotte's Web has had far greater staying power than Secret of the Andes.
And for myself, I particularly loved the llamas.Book Pairings:For a full historical context, E.B. White's Charlotte's Web and the possibly the other 1953 Newbery Honor books, Moccasin Trail, Red Sails to Capri, The Bears on Hemlock Mountain, Birthdays of Freedom, Vol.1.For books with a similar mystical journey, I was reminded of The Alchemist by Paulo Coelho.
On the other had, it's a poorly written tome that is written in such a manner as to lure the reader to total disengagement: "Slowly Cusi felt happiness fill his body warmly.
It's simply so repetitive with slight variations, like a chant, that I found my inner zen and reached the point of total freedom of the mind to wander over any subject not related to this book.Ultimately, I can only regard the selection of "Secret of the Andes" by the Newbery committee as a victory for what adults who love words above stories see as their conception of children's literature.
I read that with the sinking feeling that this writer had absolutely no concept of what would interest a reader.For most of the book, Misti the pet llama was more interesting than any of the human characters.
Everything else in the book felt like an afterthought, and I often wondered why Clark bothered to do anything other than chronicle the doings of Misti the llama.The ending was very effective and surprisingly satisfying.
I had pretty much written this one off by the time I got to it, so I was shocked at how good it actually was.If you're hard core about llamas, then this is the book for you.
One of the most interesting facts about this book is that it beat out Charlotte's Web for the 1952 Newbery Medal.
In her acceptance speech, Clark said, "I have worked with Spanish children from New Mexico to Central and South America, with Indian children from Canada to Peru.
I have worked with them because I like them.
All children need someone to make a bridge from their world to the world of the adults who surround them." Although it does not have the wide appeal of Charlotte's Web, Secret Of the Andes is worthy of its honor.
This story of a young llama herder who must leave the valley where he grew up to find his heart's desire has a surprisingly mystical quality for a children's book and offers a mysterious plot that kept me intrigued in spite of its somewhat dry writing style. For those young readers who wish to pick up this 1953 Newbery winner, I'd recommend they first learn a little about the Incas and the Spanish conquest of their empire.
1953 Newbery MedalThis will have little appeal to young readers today and it is especially hard to belief this won the medal over Charlotte's Web. A young Incan shepherd contemplates leaving the only life he's known. While I did find some of the language describing the Andes life pleasant it was overall not engaging enough to recommend.
Confusing and mostly boring. I wanted it to be better, but mostly it just wasn't.
This book did a good job of conveying the mystery and the confusion that Cusi experiences.
I was as in the dark as he was, wondering what would happen next and what were the answers to all his questions.
It was understandable that Cusi had never seen a truck and that he was puzzled and curious about it, but it was fascinating to consider an individual who was kept so isolated that he had never seen a family.
This just added to the mystery.
An afterword about the historical background and the culture of the Peruvian Indians would have been most welcome.
I didn't like this book. It's about a young boy who watches llamas with "the old man" in the Hidden Valley in Peru. His "whole life" has been this valley. And by this they mean he's about nine. The story is cryptic. You're meant to learn things as the boy learns them, but my attention kept wandering. There were lots of paragraphs explaining things like rope making that just did not hold my interest at all.
This felt like The Alchemist for kids to me. Took me so long to get through it, but it was well worth it.
It was hard for me to stay interested in this story.
Problematic, like many older children's books.
Ann Nolan Clark did work with native children and did live in South America for around 5 years.
Even so, she is an outsider writing about a culture she isn't a part of.
At least there isn't blatant racism like slurs and so on.
It's just more of that native mysticism style racism.
The story is okay, a bit repetitive, not really lively enough to be much fun, but not totally dull either.
A modern child with an old soul could still enjoy reading this, but, it definitely has a bit of a limited audience.
They are visited by strange travelers who teach Cusi many things, and eventually Cusi sets out on a solo journey to "seek his heart's desire."The author of this book taught on a Native American reservation in New Mexico from 1920-1955, and also travelled extensively through Latin America.
I think the author was trying to do something valuable with this book, expose children to a culture that was on this continent before Europeans arrived, and that still tries to persist.
In my present day adult world view, the book seemed to gloss over the surface of the evils of colonization and also romanticize Incan culture.
I'm a bit of an Inca-phile...having consumed many books on Incan history, their lives, and their ultimate demise following the Spanish Conquest in the early 16th Century.And so I bought Secret of the Andes for my daughter...thinking that the Newberry Award winner would be a terrific way for me to share my interests with my avid reader.
This sparks Cusi's internal and external adventure to discover his own history, his own past, and his real family.Along the way, Cusi learns, in broad strokes, Incan origin and religious myths, and the impact on their cultural heritage of Spanish conquest.The book is deep and spiritual.
"The Secret of the Andes" by Ann Nolan Clark is a beautifully woven tale that draws the reader into the rarified, secret world of mountain-dwelling Incan people.
In the end, Cusi realizes his heart's desire is to stay with Chuto and the herd and help preserve the ways of the ancient Incan people."The Secret of the Andes" was a Newberry Award winner in 1963.
The simple story is compelling and Clark creates a world where the reader comes to respect the ways and beliefs of the Inca.
Without heavy-handedness, the reader comes to understand the cultural price of the Spanish invasion of South America.
this is the journey he takes by leaving the valley where he has always lived and searches for his family (his heart's desire) he learns the meaning of the ancient Inca saying "Grieve not if your searching circles".
He returns to the valley with his bet llama Misti after he slowly discovers the truth about his birth and his people's ancient glory.
He discovers the meaning of the little gold slippers.
One is the title page of 2 Inca men, one hlding a pair of slippers.
I read this when I was a kid, so this was my second reading. I enjoyed the Andean setting.
I almost gave this book a two star rating. I can't imagine asking 5th graders to read it. It's a good book, but not exciting enough for a short attention span.
I come not to praise Charlotte's Web, but to put a stake through its heart.I read Secret of the Andes as a kid, when I was making my way through the list of Newbery winners.
Also, growing up in New England gives one a very different perspective on colonialism than the one presented in this book, which was also a novel idea to nine-year-old me.For 1953, Secret of the Andes seems like a pretty unusual choice for the Newbery committee to make, and I'm really glad they did.
This reader, at least, appreciates the decision of the Newbery committee that year.
This is a fairly long story; I felt like it took us a long time to read it.
It is not fast-paced, but interesting, and definitely a living book.
The descriptions painted pictures in our minds as we read it, and it made us want to look up real photographs of the mountains, the valleys, the ychu grass, the llamas, and find out what panpipes sound like.
Overall, I felt like it was a good intro, and sparked conversations about Incan religion and culture.
I read it on the way to Peru.
The depiction of the places, especially the Salt Terraces of Maras gave what I learned on my travels a little imagination of what could have been.~~~Some spoilers ~~~I was disappointed that the poor child was essentially turned away from what he wanted most, a family.
However, while in Peru, I learned that it was customary for families with many children to have late children brought up away from the family, essentially given to the community for military or spiritual purposes and that gave me better understanding of what perhaps may have gone on in this novel.
