https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17491.The_Enchanted_Wood
A magical tree where magical beings live was a great idea, but having various lands come to the top of the tree was a stroke of genius.Jo, Bessie and Fanny are three kids who move from the town to the countryside that borders on a mysterious wood.
It's just pure mindless fun.Like I said, censorship ruined the newer versions of the book.
I think Fanny is now called Franny.
Dame Slap is called Dame Snap.
She doesn't slap naughty students anymore.
All the more reason to cherish my unhurt version of the book.
They often harp on about how lucky they are that the Enchanted Wood starts across the lane from their house.The second thing to note is that if you read this book as a child then all four children in the modern edition will have changed their names!Dick and Fanny are now Rick and Franny.Jo is Joe. And Bessie is Beth.Did they change Jo and Bessie so it wasn't so obvious why they changed Dick and Fanny?
There's a ladder up into the clouds at the top of it and this leads to ever-changing magic lands that swing into position one after the next.The tree is populated by a good number of folk, though only a few are ever named.
The whole avoidance technique with changing the names and actions of characters (like Dame Slap) in Enid Blyton's books just bubble wraps kids now and suggests to me that adults really fear children coming into contact with anything 'controversial', or reading anything that might require adults to sit down, talk and spend time with their kids, rather than shoving an electronic device at them and telling them to go and do whatever.
I am definitely not a child anymore, but I admit that I partially bought these books in hopes that one day I can read these original editions to children and hope they enjoy Jo, Bessie and Fanny's adventures in the Enchanted Wood they way Enid Blyton intended them to be as much as I still do./end rant
Read this as part of 2018 Ultimate Reading Challenge, Category: "A book you were supposed to read in school but haven’t yet".  'It's called the Enchanted Wood,' said their father. 'People don't go there if they can help it. It's funny to hear things like this nowadays, and I don't expect there is really anything strange about the wood. But just be careful not to go too far into it, in case you get lost.'  I picked this book up as it was recommended to me as an excellent read and as part of the c
I picked this book up as it was recommended to me as an excellent read and as part of the challenge I had to read a book that I was supposed to read in school but haven't and here we are.When I started reading this, I felt I have read this already but then parts of it I couldn't remember.
And finally I figured out why this story and characters felt a bit familiar...It's because I have watched Enchanted Lands which is based on this book series.This book is absolutely fun and a page turner...
I knew I was taking the risk of marring my rose-tinted memories of this series but decided to proceed, regardless.It was with much relief that I found the joy and awe so often felt on early readings, as soon as I opened the very first page.
Of course there is an element of predictability to the events and the safety of the characters is continually ensured, but the whimsical beauty of the setting, the hilarious anecdotes from the characters, the soaring feats of bravery, the fantastically odd beings, and the wonderful (and sometimes not so) lands visited, all made this an utterly charming read and escape from reality for my my pre-teen, my teenage, and my (now) adult self.
Following the resounding success of my Locus Quest, I faced a dilemma: which reading list to follow it up with? Variety is the spice of life, so I’ve decided to diversify and pursue six different lists simultaneously. This book falls into my BEDTIME STORIES list.I have a little boy and love reading to him, so this reading list will cover the classic (and new) children’s stories we’re enjoying together.My wife, Millie, and I are taking it in turns to pick bed-time stories for our baby boy, Fin.
This book falls into my BEDTIME STORIES list.I have a little boy and love reading to him, so this reading list will cover the classic (and new) children’s stories we’re enjoying together.My wife, Millie, and I are taking it in turns to pick bed-time stories for our baby boy, Fin.
But some others seemed rather uninspired and forgettable – The Roundabout Land, The Land of Ice and Snow, The Land of the Saucepan Man, etc.Likewise, the characters who inhabit the enchanted wood and the faraway tree were a bit hit and miss for me.
As for the three children – I never developed different voices for them with my read aloud as I did with the characters of 
This was most definitely the first novel I read when I was about 7 or 8, and I was completely mesmerized by Joe, Bessie and Fannie and their adventures in the enchanted woods so much that I just COULD no keep this book down.
they could see the trees in the wood, and hear them talking their strange tree-talk: ‘Wish-wisha-wisha-wisha!’The Faraway Tree Series written by the much beloved Enid Blyton was one of my favorite book series when I was a kid.
There was Joe, Bessie and Fannie, the three siblings; and then there were the magic tree dwellers, Mr Watzisname, Moon Face, Sauce-pan man and my favorite character, Silky.
Originally published in 1939, Enid Blyton was an early writer of tween fantasy. Jo, Bessie and Fanny are three kids who move from the town to the countryside that borders on a mysterious wood. While exploring in between daily chores, they discover brownies, pixies and elves, and a magical tree containing all sorts of characters. What really makes the tree magical is the various lands that can be accessed at the top of the tree, and we follow the three kids on various adventures in these places. A bit tame and out of date for today's readers.
She is very much out of favor these days, but Enid Blyton's old-fashioned adventure books are still popular in many countries like India and Australia.
Children still enjoy her books, while adults frown at their “racism” and “sexism”.
But quite the most enchanting books she has ever written have got to be The Faraway Tree series: The Enchanted Wood, The Magic Faraway Tree and The Folk of the Faraway Tree.
Three children living near an enchanted wood discover an enormous tree peopled with fairy folk, at the very top of which is a ladder that leads to a different magical land every few days.
I'm visiting my eldest daughter and my three month old granddaughter this weekend.
I loved those books so you can imagine how peed off I was when I discovered that the books have been edited to make them more politically correct!Honestly, how stupid are some people to want to change perfectly delightful books about a magic tree and the folk that live there?
I spent a couple of hours today revisiting these old friends and I was quite amazed by how much I remembered after more than fifty years.I still love them and I'll be searching for the original stories for my granddaughter and not the edited ones.
I really missed out on a gem with this series; I know I would have loved this when I was younger. I still enjoyed it very much though. I decided to actually listen to this on audiobook and loved it! Narrated by Kate Winslet she did an absolutely amazing job with it. :)
The discovery of the faraway tree10 March 2012 Enid Blyton turns out (according to Wikipedia) to be a rather strange woman and not somebody who one would expect to the a very successful author of children's books. However, the views of Wikipedia, and some of those who wrote about her, do tend to be somewhat tainted. This does not mean that Blyton was necessarily a person of high moral standing. It appears that she had two marriages, and at one stage, allegedly, was quite promiscuous. It also app
The discovery of the faraway tree10 March 2012	Enid Blyton turns out (according to Wikipedia) to be a rather strange woman and not somebody who one would expect to the a very successful author of children's books.
At the beginning of the book we are told that their father had got a job in the country, so they moved out to a cottage at the edge of an enchanted wood.
I have seen this strategy before, and one can tell that Blyton is weaving familiar stories into her book mostly to appeal to children.
But, I always prefer to believe that even if we can never regain our childhood innocence, then we can at least borrow some of it for a temporary time while reading the storybooks that made us so happy when we were kids.
This is a fun storybook for kids because it will blow the minds of the young ones ( preferably under the age of 9 ) who will be amazed to read about all the little folks who've built homes in a huge tree that grew all the way to the clouds.
I'm so disappointed that the publishers thought it was a good idea to Americanise, and make a classic story politically correct. Shame. Shame. Shame.
To read this book as a child was pure joy.
To read this book as an adult, now that's pure escapism from the cruel world.
I really love this book and I'm pleased to say that re-reading this as an adult made me rediscover the simple joy of imagining about the wonderful world around me.
It is such a misfortune that we no longer get these kinds of books in the market.
Such a shame that our children's and YA genre is infested with vampire, werewolves and whatnot.
Back then, we just had pure, unadulterated literary fun instead of the darker tones of tales!
Again, I haven't let this change affect my rating, but I am extremely disappointed all the same at how political correctness and everything else is even creeping into classic children's stories.With the above ranting out the way, I can now go back to talking about how incredibly happy this book made me.
I really think that Kate Winslet helped bring this series into the modern day and I would very highly recommend getting younger children the audiobooks to this series as they would absolutely love it.I also loved getting re-aquainted with all my favourite old characters, even the ones I had forgotten about.
I consider it a privielige that I get to read it to both my own child (5 years old) and my class (NZ yr 3, so 7 turning 8).
My class agreed when I told them about this.Still, the loveliness of the era remains, a time when children would leave the house for the day and you wouldn't worry that someone had snatched them, innocent and magical.
I still wish I could find that tree and visit the wonderful lands at the top.
I am desperate to try pop cakes, and that slippery slip still sounds like the very best way to get down a tree.
What a delight to read it to your 6 yr old and see him giggle, laugh and get anxious on this adventurous journey. A first big book for my lil one where he takes his tiny steps to enter the world of imagination and what joy and pride to see him fall in love with my first fav author whom I grew up reading.
This has to be one of the most fantastic childrens' books I've ever read.
The tale revolves around three children who live next to the Enchanted Wood, which houses the Faraway Tree.
The Faraway tree is home to many wonderful people -- Mister Whatizname, Dame Washalot, Silky the Fairy, Moon Face, and eventually The Saucepan Man -- but the best part of the Faraway Tree is that at the very top is a ladder that reaches through the clouds.
This was my favourite series when I was a kid.
I have been waiting years until my kids were old enough to read it to them.
It's not quite the same with Beth, Frannie and Jo instead of Bessie, Fannie and Joe, but still a great tale.**Interview with my 6 year old son**Me: What did you think of the book?Him: It was really awesome!Me: Which bit did you like the best?Him: My favourite bit was when they found the secret forest.
I found my old copy of this book when i was visiting home last year. Its UNEDITED (i am so disappointed about the new edited versions) and it was so sweet and nostalgic to read again. Loved revisiting the wonderful lands of the Faraway Tree. I don't think i have read the rest of the series previously. Going on the hunt to find the original copies of those books.
Before GR
Along the way I had some great adventures.My reading was slowed a little in high school when I was given books to study like "White Fang" by Jack London and "The Red Badge of Courage" about the American Civil War and something about an Eskimo, 'Nanuk of the North' maybe.
My mother introduced me to great Australian classics, friends introduced me to contemporary novels and reading around particular topics or other books by favourite authors expanded my world exponentially.
What Goodreads doesn't know is that I'd already read this one, and now, all the memories have come flooding back.I remember so much about this book --- I read it almost two decades ago.
I remember struggling to stay awake on school nights so that I could spend time with my imaginary friends, my folks of the faraway tree who never had to go back to their own homes.I am not going to make the mistake of reading this book for myself now --- I know I've got a very annoying voice in my head that goes, "Seriously?
The first book in which Blyton introduces the wood and the tree and still a fantastic read. One of the great British imaginations, a fantastic communicator. I still remember reading this one as a child and loving it and have just finished reading an abridged, cleaned-up, politically neutered version with my kids and have seen the same shock and excitement in their eyes as the story twisted and turned like the trunk of the great tree itself. Moon Face, Silky and the lands are wonderful achievements and this is kid´s literature of the highest order.
This book was awesome! I loved every part,every minute, every character in it.It was totally unexpected in a good way and that to me is why I loved it. There was humour as well. I just couldn't help laughing. The author's imagination came to play right in this book and I liked though the saucepan man was pretty much annoying. Anyway there are always annoying characters in every book so that was okay. Overall, great book.I loved it!
fun and adventure, a perfect bedtime read for the kids.
Oh would you look at this.....!! I had this read TO ME by my Mummy because I was 2 and couldn't even read. But I think it still counts! Don't you?!!
Just finished- this is the first full book that I have read to my eldest (5 years old). Short, fun chapters for reading before bed, nothing scary, lots of interesting characters and two more books to look forward to. I recommend it to parents as a starter to move from picture books.
The Enchanted Wood tells the story of Jo, Bessie and Fanny (remodelled Joe, Beth and Franny in later years), three siblings who move to the English countryside and proceed to have various adventures in a magical wood backing the yard of their new home.
Children visit tree, vowing not to enter current land at top.
I do understand that the repetitive and predictable features of The Enchanted Wood are the kind of thing kids love, and considering its perennial popularity, it’s fair to say that Enid Blyton was a genius in her own way.
