https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/70582.War_for_the_Oaks
Oops I was browsing the "recommended because of your shelf" listings and I noticed that this book was not on my lists?! In fact, not on my FAVORITE SHELVES list? I've read it about 4 times so GET ON MY SHELF!This book was written years before the trend of "paranormal romance faerie crossing into urban environment" became commonplace. If you want to see one of the books that probably helped start ALL this paranormal stuff, here it is. GREAT book for girls and boys alike. I have it in 3 different versions, one day I'll get it signed :)
I certainly didn't expect that I'd find a book that I had a hard time putting down and ended up finishing in two days.
As I understand it, War for the Oaks is an early example of urban fantasy.
A few things do make the story a bit dated, like some clothing descriptions and the constant references to how hot Prince is.
(I never thought he was.) But, most of the story manages to avoid most things that would make it seem exceptionally dated.Now, it's really possible that this book doesn't deserve five stars.
Either way, I was confident I'd enjoy myself, on the knee jerk gut level if nothing else.I was right about the enjoyment part.
Persons of color exist, but so does a great deal of casual racism, culminating in an endnote describing the author adapting the book for a movie and choosing to cut one of the persons of color in favor of expanding two white male character narratives (predictable culmination, anyone?).
In short, female solidarity is actively developed (the book flat out talks about women's rights at one point), but there is no application of lessons learned in the development process to everyone else.
The story is about a young woman with great musical aspirations--she wants to start her own band—who stumbles across a fae war and gets recruited.
Since I mostly read stories set in far off places (and imaginary worlds), it's a little unsettling—in a good way—to dive into a book that features Minneapolis...
Or that fae factions used to duke it out every night right across the street from where I used to live?Urban fantasy has come so far from its origins that reading this book is like examining a piece of relic recently unearthed from some lost burial ground.
War for the Oaks has the distinction of helping mold the subgenre of urban fantasy.
War for the Oaks is an excellent example of everything I’ve come to love about the fusion of modernity and magic.
He’s enigmatic and eccentric, but endearing; it’s easy to share in Eddi’s growing trust in him.
Many of the powers of the Fae are not clearly defined; Bull picks and chooses which rules to share, so the plot can glide along without the burden of weighty details.
It’s easy to see how its release in the late 80s would have encouraged acknowledgement of the urban fantasy subgenre.
Eddi, a singer/electric guitarist living in Minneapolis, finds herself chosen by the Seelie Court for a job nobody would be especially keen on: the Seelie and Unseelie Courts, whose queens are resident in Minneapolis for reasons that are never quite addressed, are declaring a war for the city.
The Phouka is a really fantastic character, especially in his early scenes, and the descriptions of the fey folk themselves are lively and convincing and imaginative.
Eddi's band is central to the action and ultimately to the plot, and the most powerful scenes are the ones in which they're playing and Eddi's feeling the chords slide and wail around her.

That, combined with the fact that there's a quote on front in which Neil Gaiman states, "Emma Bull is really good" (which may seem scant praise, but is everything to a Gaiman fan), I finally decided to just go ahead and order it.
After reading it, I concur with Mr. Gaiman--Emma Bull is really good.
Bull draws heavily on the folktales of Ireland and Scotland and her faeries are wonderful creatures--seldom completely good or evil, but always looking to bend events to their favor with no regard to the consequences brought upon others.
הציון האמיתי הוא 4.5, אבל איזה יופי של ספר!
אני מבינה למה ניל גיימן כתב על אמה בול שהיא "ממש ממש טובה".כבר לא מעט זמן שקלתי לקרוא אותו.
הכלב השחור הוא הכל רק לא כלב, ומכאן מתחיל סיפור שבו אדי מגלה שהיא נבחרה לשמש כפיון במלחמה העתיקה שבין הסילי לאנסילי קורט.הקלילות של הספר עומדת בסתירה לכתיבה הנפלאה שעשירה ברגישות ובמינימליזם נהדר.
בקיצור - כמו שצריך.* את סיפור האהבה - "הפוקה" הוא אחת הדמויות השובות לב שיצא לי לקרוא.
אבל מי אמר שזה דבר רע?
Apparently, too, an early (1987) entry in the Urban Fantasy genre.Brilliant in many ways.
Fun, and sometimes funny, With some romance, some heavy-duty magical battles, and lots and lots of music.
And lots of Minneapolis.Eddi is a strong woman in many ways.
Lots of descriptions of wonderful fashion choices.Just one thing about the blurb on the back of the edition that I read.
where it says "her boyfriend just dumped her" it is so wrong it's not funny.
I think some male chauvinist must have written that bit!(And I see that the GR blurb has that, too; I'll have to fix that.)(Read for a Strong Women challenge.)
This is the way writing should be -- clear, lyrical, smooth. A tight plot that still leaves plenty of room for character development.An "off-the-bookshelf" Monopoly move.SRC 2018 'TUM' (Fall) Task 15.3 Let's Play! Title initials found in "sTar Wars actiOn Figures" Author initials found in "Easy-Bake oven"  (Did not check for other possible tasks)
It is astonishing to think that Minneapolis was the center of the Faerie world in 1987.
I was enjoying the retro nature of the bands mentioned and the clothing styles, but then suddenly realized a character had just ducked into a phone booth.
Oh: no cell phones, no computers, and despite this being a rock ‘n’ roll band story, somehow the whole grunge movement never got mentioned?
Quite surprising.) All the male faeries are described like they stepped out of a Prince music video, and the lead character apparently dresses like Stevie Nicks.In any event, 
This book is a very strong argument as to why frequent, extended descriptions of what the characters are wearing is a bad idea: not only is it unnecessary, a lot of the time, but it makes the book feel very dated.
I've read things by, say, Gaiman, who have taken on the same themes and roughly the same settings, and haven't left me feeling frustrated by things left hinted at or never explored.
(Why the hell have two European fairy courts taken up residence in Minneapolis, of all places?
4.5 starsI understand this book was a pioneer in the urban fantasy world.
One could only wish that the subsequent urban fantasy was as good.At first it felt tired and old hat to me, but gradually, Emma Bull's world and characters began to build and before you know it, I was enchanted.It's a tour de force of music, magic, honor, courage, and love.
The Pouka is the most endearing and lovable character I've come across in a long time.
Eddi's character gradually develops depth and the story takes off.
The peripheral characters are delightful.
Willy Silver is a true tragic hero.
Yep, still excellent! With it's wit, warmth, great characters and a story that gets you hooked, instantly. Faeries, a chosen mortal, a fight between good (of sort) and evil, a lot of Rock'n'Roll and one sexy, irresistible Phouka.I love it!b/w the book was written in the 80's. References, clothes, songs. A trip down memory lane :)
I thought the music would be a saving grace because that's something I do love, but I still wasn't really getting into that portion.A friend pointed out to me that this was sort of the first UF written.
Looking at it from that perspective, and from the very important perspective that this was written in the 80s, things finally started clicking for me.
The second half was quite good.The interesting thing about this was that there wasn't one single actual plot twist that surprised me.
Where the book was strongest was the novel setting and the way that music became such an integral part of the overall story.
Music and dancing?
Neil Gaiman's quote on the book jacket for The War for the Oaks reads: "Emma Bull is really good."I'm with Mr. Gaiman.
The heroine, Eddi, has her own kind of magic that comes from her stage presence when she's playing with her band.
Now I've gotta think: is that all?Eddi is chosen by the fae to bring to their war a to-the-death ability.
If it matters it is.)I was bored with the book by the end and didn't care to read the script sample from Bull and her husband for a movie version of The War for the Oaks.
I also wish I'd heard of at least half of the songs mentioned (stuffed, more like) in it.
I can't even recall how many times I had to exclaim "REALLY?" before I lost my voice to disgust and just started gagging.
Probably right around the point where Carla, a completely flat character seemingly designed by a schizophrenic, says "No one is cuter than Prince." Or maybe it was Eddi who said that.
Whatever, the two were completely interchangeable, which is made worse by the fact that Eddi is THE MFING PROTAGONIST.
Even writers like Laurell K.
This is, I believe, the book that kicked off the "using music against the Sidhe" subgenre that became so popular through the nineties. When I first read it, I wondered if the influence had been Elizabeth Marie Pope's The Perilous Garde--the idea of women writers catching, adding their own grace notes, and passing on ideas being exemplified so very well here.
It gets a star because I finished it. Don't read this book. A mix between fantasy and a rock novel incorporating the worst aspects of both genres with an inability to compose a coherent action sequence.
Eddi McCandry is a rocker with a big heart.
She attracts the attention of the Seelie Court and her life is turned upside down.I absolutely loved this.
Love him.Even aside from the characters, the story was a page-turner.
I wanted to get on with this story.) I managed to be polite and listen to him, but the whole time I was sitting there wondering what was going to happen next, hoping that the trainee would need a bathroom break soon and I could read a little more about what was going on with Eddi, the Phouka, and the Seelie Court.
This is one of, if not THE book that started it all.There are fairies (but don't call them that if you know what's good for you) of every shape and size, lust, love, rock n' roll and a war between Seelie and Unseelie courts- what more could you want?
How about characters you care for almost instantly, magic that somehow makes sense even when it doesn't, and don't forget- the magic of music.This is no cut and dry good vs.
As might be expected from a book that drips hip despite its pop culture references now being 20 years old, an allusion to Homestar Runner is one of my favorite ways to summarize it:"Faeries are dragging us into their bloody war!""I don't want to take any chances.
We should play in a band just to be safe."And that's precisely what the heroine, a down-on-her-luck guitar player/singer, does.The real magic in this book is not Faerie glamour but Bull's upper-echelon storytelling skills and otherworldly ability to make you like her characters.
This book has a permanent place on my shelf and "reread periodically" status.
Can Eddi and her new band save Minneapolis from the Unseelie Court?
The Fey are not my favorite fantasy creatures, and this book got off to a weak start, but I was soon enjoying myself.
This is described as "one of the pioneering works of urban fantasy".
It was written as contemporary fiction in the 80's (our heroes are fond of vests, denim jackets and high-top sneakers) and features an out-of-work singer/guitarist who gets dragged into the middle of a Fairy war.
She's guarded by a fabulous phouka, seduced by a Fairy lord, and threatened by a variety of hostile, inhuman creatures.
In the end she champions the Seelie Court with her magical music.
Such a fun read. As someone in the center of the Venn diagram of "loves folk lore," "loves music," and "loves books," this was basically made for me. If you like badass urban fantasy with great tie ins to Celtic lore and have fond memories of going to shows, you really need to check this out.CONTENT WARNING: (view spoiler)[A man hits his girlfriend. There are brief depictions of war and death (hide spoiler)]Things to love: -The phouka. Yeah, I know Eddi is the main character, and she's pretty gr
As someone in the center of the Venn diagram of "loves folk lore," "loves music," and "loves books," this was basically made for me.
If you like badass urban fantasy with great tie ins to Celtic lore and have fond memories of going to shows, you really need to check this out.CONTENT WARNING: (view spoiler)[A man hits his girlfriend.
There are brief depictions of war and death  (hide spoiler)]Things to love: -The phouka.
It makes me want to book a gig even though I don't have a band.
Super cool, but I wanted more meat so that I felt the story like I did the bits about the music.-The ending.
4.5 stars. My second original English version of fantasy fiction.
Another is a girl who loves the mystery and thrill of a vibrant urban landscape, the citylight stars humming along asphalt and bright window displays.
Who likes going to a sweaty gig at Joe's just as much as the opera.I have been unconsciously suppressing this girl for the past year or so, and War for the Oaks brought her out of me again.
Not everyone will like this book, 'cause they might get lost in the language or a musician's lifestyle, or they might not connect with the urban aesthetic or the fashion of the 80s.
This book was described as the foundation for urban fantasy-ish, so I just had to read it.
Her prose is fantastic, lyrical with unique descriptions that didn't fall into the trap of being cliche or trite.
The way she wrote the main character, Eddi's, passion for singing was marvelous and it made me feel caught up in a magical world.
I absolutely loved how the romance in this book was slow and built up so it was natural for the characters to fall in love, not like this "we meet" and then "OMG I LOVE YOU!!!" crap in young adult urban fantasy I see now.
To read this book and criticize it for jumping on the "fae" "shifter" bandwagon is not recognizing that it started then bandwagon - it did not join the train in progress.
It was written before I became immersed in Urban Fantasy.
I'm not completely sure how I missed it at the time it was written as it was also before my refusal to read Urban Fantasy.
) Hmm. May well be that I was still reading mysteries and by the time I got into fantasy, it was old.
My one disappointment in this book is all the musical references and lyrics presented.
This book is probably pretty awesome if you are a 14 year-old girl with black nail polish.
For me though, the only reason I'm giving it two stars rather than none is a sort of sweet enthusiasm for her characters and theme that the author manages to project, despite her crap hand with plot and characterization.
Doesn't it seem that the blacker the nail polish, the more vowels should go in that word?) warfare, with a rock-n-rollin' Minnesotan named Eddi as the mortal lynchpin for the good guys.
