https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/402943.Mysterium_Paschale
"In other words, the renunciation of the 'form of God' and the taking on of the 'form of a slave' with all their consequences do not entail any alienation within the Trinitarian life of God. God is so divine that by way of the Incarnation, death and Resurrection, he can truly and not just in seeming become that which as God he already and always is." (208) A theology of the cross in Trinitarian perspective, with all the erudition you might expect from Balthasar as he draws from scripture, Church Fathers, and contemporary theologians/exegetes.
A bit dry, and unnecessarily long-winded at points, but otherwise and fascinating, and insightful examination of kenosis, incarnation, death, burial and resurrection of Jesus. The fact that Balthasar explores the place of Holy Saturday and the incarnation as part of the depiction of the Paschal work of Christ is noteworthy, and helpful.
Originally, I purchased this work by the noted & respected Catholic theologian, Hans Urs von Balthasar (1905-1988), out of interest for reading a theological treatment of the liturgy of the sacred Easter Triduum (Good Friday/Holy Saturday/Resurrection Sunday).
Here's how von Balthasar describes it in the Preface: "This book appeared for the first time as a constituent chapter of a large-scale dogmatics.
This isn't a book which can be rushed through, and undoubtedly would bear reading multiple times.
Super hard to read I don’t know Latin. I didn’t understand the complicated arguments. I guess this maybe more for the scholar and academic.
great book
This is the hardest Balthasar book I've read -- which is saying something!
I didn't do myself any favors by reading this over the course of many months.
Still this is the densest of Balthasar's works I've read -- I haven't dipped into his famous Trilogy yet.
I found his exegetical discussion of the Resurrection to be a bit disturbing.
Perhaps this is because Balthasar is prodigious with his notes, but I hated having to flip to the back of the sections to read the notes and by the final part, I simply read them after I'd finished the body of the section.
Breathtaking Vision of the Life, Death and ResurrectionVon Balthasar's extensive reflections upon the cross in relation to Israel, the church, time and space and the hope of redemption will require me to return again and again to sit with these insights. At the same, they call me again and again to bow before the glory of the Lord and worship Him in His beauty.
