https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12351649-perfection
Meet Zoe, Trevor's slightly over-weight and plain looking neighbor.
Having enough of being walked over that day, Zoe tries to reclaim her food only to have Trevor tell her "Its not like you need it." Feeling mildly guilty for saying that out loud, Trevor decides to make amends by getting Zoe a job at his uncle's construction business.
However, Trevor is mortified when he finds himself attracted to Zoe. After all, she's the complete opposite of his dream woman.
Even Trevor hops on this band wagon by constantly thinking Zoe is too fat to be with him.
Zoe:Feeling like a total cad for insulting Zoe’s weight problem and making her run away crying, he goes about trying to make amends.
I loved Trevor and Zoe, even when he was being a jerk and she was pushing his buttons, they really worked for me.
I think why I might like this one a bit more than Playing For Keep is that Trevor wasn't quite as obnoxious as Jason, and I could relate to so many of their situations.
Zoe's weight problem was a big part of this story, and with that comes a woman who doesn't feel beautiful or worthy of a hot guy like Trevor.
Full review now posted... 5 ‘damned near perfect’ stars!!  "Does no one care that she just manhandled me?" Trevor demanded, facing the men who should be properly outraged on his behalf.Jason snorted. "As long as brings me food, she can bitch slap you and call you spanky."Trevor narrowed his eyes on the men who dared laugh at his pain.Betraying bastards. Perfection is the second book in R.L. Mathewson’s Neighbor From Hell series and again, one helluva funny read. Like the first book, this one has
Perfection is the second book in R.L. Mathewson’s Neighbor From Hell series and again, one helluva funny read.
Like the first book, this one has laugh out loud dialog, romance, holy hell it's hot in here heat, and I couldn’t put it down!
So when she loses her job over something most bosses would probably be happy with and her life starts going down hill from there she doesn't expect it to get any better.
Perfection is a funny book, with tonnes of good natured banter and sly flippant humor but as Bill Maher recently discovered, great comedy is a trifecta of timing, content, and delivery.I think we know that even a great comic can and has been derailed by the content of their act.
This book, for me, was let down by Trevor, what with the constant derision of Zoe's looks, hair, weight, clothes etc.
Yes, he eventually sees the error of his ways but by which time I had lost all interest.Oftentimes, I found myself laughing AT Trevor rather than with him; just as I felt overwhelmed by the constant reference to the "Bradford appetite for food" or the "Bradford looks" then my favorite, the "Bradford studs".
Kissing my kindleMuahSmackSmoochPeck, peck, peckI love this fluffy little story. When you get past the slightly corny beginning, it becomes...WonderfulQuirkyLightheartedLaugh out loud funnyBetter review when I get to an actual computer!
I really needed a pick me up and this book was just perfect for that.
The funny dialogue, the unusual characters and the fact that there was no instalust or instalove made it all better.
:DNot to mention the weird relationship with food that all the Bradford men share...it was definitely a treat :POhhh...I almost forgot...loved the fact that the main female character was a woman with curves and not "the most beautiful thing he's ever seen".
It made this crazy unbelievable story just a little more real :DBut when Trevor called her fat (true...not in so many words) I just wanted to pull him out from my Kindle and smack him around a little...he deserved it...
Don't you just lurve it when a non-conventional heroine (who was not tall, slender and willowy) bagged the hot Hero? And in this case the short and plump girl totally brought the wicked stud to his knees. Trevor was not as bad as his cousin Jason, but a Bradford is still a Bradford, known for their love for all that is food. And Trevor's antics were equally juvenile in this book too. Love for another Bradford in the future books.
October 2013 Reread- This book once again rocked my world!!WARNING! Do not read this in public areas...people think you are crazy when you laugh hysterically for seemingly no reason...assholesThis has got to be the best 72p I have EVER spent and has now sparked off a teeny tiny obsession with buying every book that R.L. Mathewson has ever published. Zoe has had the worst day of her life. Ever. Attacked by the bosses wife, unfairly fired from her soul destroying job, her car window breaking and
But the confrontation with her neighbour the handsome, arrogant food obsessed Trevor leads in to unexpected directions as they set up a little arrangement to benefit them both.I bought this on impulse as I love plain Jane stories, I am ashamed to say I thought it would be a quick enjoyable but ultimately forgettable read, I was wrong, I LOVED this book.
The other characters around them were also great, the whole Bradford Clan were completely food obsessed and a little insane and I can't wait to read more about them!This was a great book, I loved every second of it am now off to Amazon to loot the rest of R.L Mathewson's books...!
But this scene made up a bit for his behavior (his "friend" Hank brought him a woman to meet, at that time he's sleeping with Zoe).
She's a chef," Hank announced with a cocky grin, no doubt knowing how attractive a woman who could cook was to a Bradford.What he didn't know was that so far Mandy was scoring pretty high on Trevor's perfect woman list.
He had his standards and this woman failed them.----------------What the hell was the man thinking bringing a woman like that to meet him?
Did the man think he was so desperate that he'd consider sleeping with a woman like that?
This book had me laughing out loud at all Trevor’s crazy antics.
Zoe needs someone to be her champion and Trevor is just the man for the job.
See, Zoe’s a plump girl, and Trevor has a list of standards that his future wife needs to meet.
He also helps satisfy her sexual needs, his way of protecting her from all the evil men out there who will just take advantage of her...yeah right Trevor!!!
So, not only did we get Trevor and Zoe’s story, we got crazy Jason and the lovely Haley too.
In this case, the 3-3.5 star rating means that I enjoyed the book!
I was suffering from a book hungover and I was looking for a cute, light and funny book and this was exactly what I needed.Some scenes made me LOL so hard, especially because of Bradfords obsession with food!
The Bradford appetite was a disability, damn it and should be treated as such.I couldn't rate it higher because (view spoiler)[ Trevor was a jerk at the beginning.
(hide spoiler)] Overall, it was an entertaining and enjoyable story and I'm looking forward to reading the next books in the series!
He’s a horrible neighbor, both greedy and selfish, only thinking of his own needs, and after Zoe gets fired, all she wants to do is eat her pizza she orders.
Trevor is scary obsessed with food, and when Zoe confronts him, he says she doesn’t need to eat the pizza, implying she’s fat.
Trevor then feels guilty for what he has done and offers her a job as his personal housekeeper of sorts and getting her job as his uncle’s secretary.Things are looking up for Zoe and she decides she wants to have more of a social life and that means dating and sex.
5 "perfectly imperfect" Stars. Changed my rating. I'm just going to bump it up to 5 stars since I keep rereading it, and it gets better a better every time. I don't see a reason why it shouldn't get 5 stars. This book was fucking perfect! Everything i look in a romance. Both characters are wonderfully flawed, i just adore their imperfections. I actually didn't care for rest of the books in the series. Many, many 1 or 2 star reviews are coming, I'm afraid. 4.5 Stars! “She also wasn’t the type of
5 "perfectly imperfect" Stars.
I'm just going to bump it up to 5 stars since I keep rereading it, and it gets better a better every time.
I don't see a reason why it shouldn't get 5 stars.
This book was fucking perfect!
Both characters are wonderfully flawed, i just adore their imperfections.
Many, many 1 or 2 star reviews are coming, I'm afraid.
4.5 Stars!
:(I enjoyed this book a lot more than i thought i would.
Many people love the first book, i just couldn't get into that one so i started this with very low expectations, it totally caught me off guard.
5 stars This book has hearts and flowers written all over it. Zoe is jobless and alone. Her landlord, Trevor, helps get her a job. A start of a great frienship turns into friends with benefits.I really liked Zoe. I thought she was a strong heroine considering her background. Trevor's character was over the top and hilarious but such a sweetie.   You're a Bradford... We always fuck up  It was predictable but  entertaining. A fabulous light and funny book that left me with a fat grin.
Uploaded with ImageShack.usI love this series not only because of the hilarious dialogue, cute banters, chessy romance, but also for all the foodgasm goodness involved. Quite addictive and with Bradford obsessions of food, its not to hard to imagine.☺ Uploaded with ImageShack.us BRADFORD'S APPETITE!! Uploaded with ImageShack.usTrevor, cousin of Jason, from book 1 have also this "huge" love for food. And with his busy schedule she offered his tenant, Zoe, help to get a job in his uncle construct
Uploaded with ImageShack.usI love this series not only because of the hilarious dialogue, cute banters, chessy romance, but also for all the foodgasm goodness involved.
Quite addictive and with Bradford obsessions of food, its not to hard to imagine.☺
Uploaded with ImageShack.us BRADFORD'S APPETITE!!
Uploaded with ImageShack.usTrevor, cousin of Jason, from book 1 have also this "huge" love for food.
Uploaded with ImageShack.usAnd Zoe, her favorite tenant, was the complete opposite.
Uploaded with ImageShack.usOverall, I love this as much as Playing for Keeps & Checkmate.
With a two people having a lot of insecurities/ issues yet able to look beyond the imperfection.
Uploaded with ImageShack.us
Really funny , really cute but the only thing was (view spoiler)[ i didnt like how he treats her in the Beg. or in some parts in the middle and then to just go from being a butt hole to then out of nowhere he really likes her throws me off (hide spoiler)]
however I hate it when the characters ruins what could've been a good story.
Though not much happened in this book, it would still be interesting enough to enjoy if it weren't for the characters.
If you know me, then you know the male character is a huge deal to me.
If I don't like the man, then the book is over for me.
I simply need to love the male character in a book.
So overall, the story got destroyed because of the characters, aka Trevor.
(hide spoiler)]Favorite character?
- I'm stupid, who knows.Would I recommend this book/series?
I love food.
I love eating.
And I simply don’t care if I gain or lose weight with all the food I stuff in my mouth.
I simply don’t find it adorable.You see this book have marked me as the hero food obsessed, the heroine a big dull dud.
To top it all off, I threw in some cocktail drinks and voila, complete course of meal.
LOL.As I finished this book, my belly is full, I had a wonderful time with my sister-in-law while she’s baking my dessert and I got reacquainted with my favorite cocktail drink.
What she really needs is comfort food and to curl up in a ball, what she gets is her neighbor stealing her takeout order and insulted all in the same breath.What starts out as a tolerable relationship ends up leading to a friends with benefits but no commitment arrangement, but to think it will be easy to maintain a distance is proving to be harder than both of them thought.I would have given this a five, but Trevor is a bit of a dick for awhile.
Rating 3.5This didn't work that well for me since I didn't love Trevor as much, he came across as shallow and for a long time I didn't like his treatment of Zoe, his tenant.
Though it took him too long to get his head straight and realize that he was bonkers over her and that their arrangement about being friends with benefits in secret was not working for him and he wanted more.
Audio re-read 11/29/18 I still like this story but I skipped around on the audio a lot. I forgot just how much Zoe doubted herself and how prevalent Trevor's asshole behavior was in the story and it got a bit much to listen to for so long.
Ljudi, ja obožavam ovaj "Neighbor from Hell" serijal.
:D"Would it have killed you to keep it a secret between us?" Trevor asked as they stepped in line.
"It's a buffet Trevor.
They would have found out about it within a week," Zoe replied.
"Yes, but that would have been a week that I could have enjoyed this place before those greedy bastards got us all banned." Trevor sighed.
Trevor slowly looked down at her.
You sold me out!" he said looking shocked.
"I wanted to see how a whole family gets banned from a restaurant" she admitted with a shrug.
one of the amazing books i've come across this year ! LOL...love trevor sooo much because he adores zoe more than homemade cupcakes...and thats saying a LOT for a Bradford. ;)
"If I say you're beautiful then you're beautiful so get the hell over it!" he snapped."Look, I appreciate the compliment, but-""Out," he said, dropping onto his back and folding his arms over his chest as he stubbornly looked away from her."But-""I said out, woman!""This is my apartment," Zoe pointed out, sounding close to laughing."Then you know where the door is.
Now get out, woman, and don't you dare come back until you're ready to apologize to me," he said, waving a dismissive hand in the direction of the door.I did like how the extreme dieting that Zoe is doing is not portrayed as ok.
Oh, but wait that's nothing because her termination comes after she gets an ice latte thrown at her by the embezzler.
If you have read book one in this series then you are aware that he as well as all Bradford men has a bottomless stomach.
As of today Trevor fears he may lose his perfect tenant after a conversation they share where she lets him know she may soon need to move since she has lost her job.
Trevor ends up at the same bar when he spots a drunken Zoe and makes her an offer she can't refuse.
3.5 stars or 3.75 stars, maybe 4 stars.I'm torn on my rating. My enjoyment was a 4-4.5 stars. The story was a 3-3.5 stars. But I really really enjoyed it. I mean a family of men who loved to eat and get thrown out of buffets...how can I not be amused? Both hero and heroine were likable.Why can't GR create half stars or something?
Loved this one! Just as good as the first :-) Zoe and Trevor were great, emotional moments, hilarious moments it had it all! Enjoyed their story and I loved how Jason, Haley and the other Bradfords were back! Can't wait to read book number 3 in this series.
I knew soon as Trevor stated his list of what his future wife's requirements were that it was going to be fun watching him fall madly in love with his future wife's complete opposite.The Bradford men were once again over the top with their food consumption issues, a little silly or too much at times, but some good laughs as they passed that gene to their off springs.
Trevor had a little bit of Tate Jackson from Sweet Dreams in him, especially how he belittled Zoe for her looks and weight.
Five Perfect Stars :) As long as she brings me food she can bitch slap you and call you spanky ~ Jason Bradford  I just had to include that quote simply because it made me laugh and it strongly describes how fixated the Bradford men are with food. Its ridiculously hilarious. Though Jason and Haley from the first novel, Playing For Keeps, makes several appearances in this story, this story involved another Bradford family member, Trevor and his shy and sweet tenant, Zoe. Once again, I could not p
I just had to include that quote simply because it made me laugh and it strongly describes how fixated the Bradford men are with food.
Though Jason and Haley from the first novel, Playing For Keeps, makes several appearances in this story, this story involved another Bradford family member, Trevor and his shy and sweet tenant, Zoe. Once again, I could not put down this book and finished it in one sitting.
However, after putting his foot in his mouth after Zoe has a day from hell, Trevor feels the need to help her.
I can't get enough of these Bradford men.
"Would it have killed you to keep it a secret between us?" Trevor asked as they stepped in line.  "It's a buffet Trevor. They would have found out about it within a week," Zoe replied. "Yes, but that would have been a week that I could have enjoyed this place before those greedy bastards got us all banned." Trevor sighed.  "Gee, I hadn't thought of that," she mumbled, trying not to laugh. Trevor slowly looked down at her. His eyes narrowed dangerously on her as she did her best to bite back the
Trevor slowly looked down at her.
After meeting the Bradfords in the last book I LOVED THAT SCENE!
If you have read this book you know what I'm talking about..
If you haven't read this book PLEASE DO even if its just for that part!
This is the story of Trevor and Zoe...
Trevor is a Bradford so we do see Hayley and Jason pop in and find out what they are up too.
Zoe and Trevor actually live next door to each other.
LOL I liked Zoe alot...
