https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/562775.The_Mirror_and_the_Lamp
I like it when academics can detail exactly what it is they're talking about, and Abrams has a happy habit of thought I think, which allows him to be able to organize his argument.
I have read some reviews saying that Abrams's style is 'ostensibly academic', to which I have nothing to say but 'bollocks' and 'up yours'.
I would think many academics would write apologias as a reaction to this, but without naming it -- sort of like setting up fences without mentioning the huge elephant that might try to blunder through.
The early chapters, up to his precis of Wordsworth and especially Coleridge are excellent- he explains how and why Romantic criticism came to be what it is, by putting it into the context of earlier critics.
So that didn't help the middle two chapters.
On the other hand, better this than the books that were being written twenty years later, since Abrams was still under the impression that you have to know about something before writing theory about that thing, so this book will help you learn about the Romantics and not about, say, a deconstructivist post-feminist anti-Marxist stance with some vague connection to Shelley.
Its fine, clear distinctions positively bask in an age when literary endeavor and discussion redounded through the halls of the academy, as economics and computers and medically-related programs do now.
I used to use a chair in my freshman comp: I'd place it on top of the desk and ask, "Is this a Real Chair?" I would puzzle my freshmen by, "Plato says the Chair in the Mind is the real chair, and it produces this chair, and all chairs we non-Platonists might call 'real.'" Abrams cites Socrates' Ideal bed in the mind, the carpenter's bed I lie in, and the painter's bed.
An essential text for the study of Romantic poetry, built upon a brilliant metaphor.
However, you could do a lot worse than this book for an introduction to a vast range of evolving lit-critical modes through history, starting with Greece and ending in 19th-century England, with Wordworth and Coleridge--whom Abrams venerates as the most valuable and interesting practitioners and theorists of romantic poetry--our principal touchstones.
In addition, Abrams's categories of theories of art--mimetic, pragmatic, objective, expressive--are fairly comprehensive and useful, and offer a good overview of critical attitudes toward art (meaning, here, poetry), at least up through Abrams' post-WWII/American cultural moment.
Can you believe it, I eat this stuff up.
This past year I've been thinking and reading about how the "I" in contemporary poetry has evolved from the Greek lyric and Romantic poets--and Abrams lays it out in this book. Excellent so far.
Re-read celem doczytania o recepcji Younga w Prusach. Doktorat in progress.
A compulsary reading for me, an English student back to 13 years ago.Reading it, I made doodles, notes, folding, highlight, comments. The book is now dog-eared, wrinkle, dirty, old but still CHARMING.I still read it sometimes.
The best survey of romantic literary theory. Abrams is a scholar, not a critic, but he is a very great scholar.
After Wordsworth and Coleridge, it began to be accessible to anybody with a pen and paper.The central metaphor lies in the mirror and the lamp.
The Romantics added a lamp to that metaphor, asserting it was the moral and aesthetic imperative of the poet to not only instruct through access to empirical evidence, but also to infuse those observations with the imaginative interaction of the poet's mind in particular to illuminate the universal truths embedded invisibly within the poetic subject.If you find literary theory a tough slog, this is a 335 page book on literary theory.
this short and precise novel opened my integrity to the ramifications to today's society. It has somewhat elevated me to a non Neolithically citizen, in a way to adjust to the darkness of musical dormitory.Outstandingly vocal, I would suggest to any one that needs a reinvention to a literacy on a downfall to a delegative domain.
what a dude
Interesting and very thorough history of literary criticism as pertaining to poetry.
It was published in the 1950s so does not include any of the more modern theories or stances but gives a very good idea of the foundations on which attitudes to art and poetry are based.
I suppose some of the beliefs about what poetry should be seem to ignore the reader which for me is paramount so they appear quite bizarre.
It is remarkable that the importance of the reader has only been considered seriously in fairly modern times.
Having read this twice (with a 20 year gap between readings), I now understand much more, but know much less. Which is to say: this time I enjoyed the intellectual history, but felt less compelled to take sides.
good
