https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/631146.The_Clue_of_the_Whistling_Bagpipes
An excellent trip down memory lane with Nancy, Bess and George. Fun times!
This is one of the first Nancy Drew books that I read and at a tender age, I was thoroughly disillusioned.
In one sitting, Nancy learns to play the bagpipes.
I asked my father, a bagpiper, how long it took to learn and guess what?
Pipers learn to play on a chanter and have to get the fingering down pat before they even attempt to play a bagpipe itself.
I recovered enough to read other Nancy Drew mysteries, of course, but I was never the huge fan that I could have been if I hadn't started with this one early on.
"Scots, Wha Hae," composed supposedly in remembrance of William Wallace and Robert Bruce — it's a song around which the plot of Nancy's mystery revolves in this particular story.I always thought the name was Robert the Bruce, and have always been fascinated because if someone is called Anything the Bruce, that's serious business, now isn't it.But anyway, Nancy and her friends omit the the, but I'm not changing my stance. These gals aren't always correct.Scots, wha hae wi' Wallace bled,Scots, wha
"Scots, Wha Hae," composed supposedly in remembrance of William Wallace and Robert Bruce ⁠— it's a song around which the plot of Nancy's mystery revolves in this particular story.I always thought the name was Robert the Bruce, and have always been fascinated because if someone is called Anything the Bruce, that's serious business, now isn't it.But anyway, Nancy and her friends omit the the, but I'm not changing my stance.
Good.Book also features:-Exploding mailbox-Wrecked cars-Bagpipe learning-How to coordinate clan tartans with your complexion.I honestly have no idea what the mystery was here.
Sheep stealing??
I love, love, love the classic Nancy Drew mysteries!
This Nancy Drew installment is very intriguing beyond the normal mystery.
I know I did.]The story is well written with an ebb and flow of action interlaced with clues and deductive reasoning.
In the end Nancy proved to be worthy of the same motto as the Canadian Mounties...she always gets her man.I highly recommend this book and this series to any mystery fan; especially those honing their reading skills.
These are wonderfully written chapter books.
Nancy Drew travels to Scotland to solve this family mystery that introduces us to Nancy's great-grandmother.
Re-reading Nancy Drew mysteries comforts me when I'm going through a rough time. And even when I'm not.
So happy to find Nancy visited Scotland! She checks off so many "must-see tourist places" and eats all the right foods too! Full review here: http://www.readingscotland.com/2017/0...
This is a very exciting and suspenseful story. It is full of accurate historical information about Scotland. The story is very fun to read and I enjoyed every minute of it.
In another of the "Nancy travels the world" series, she goes to Scotland, and for the first time I can remember, looks for something that belongs to HER!
A brooch that belongs to her great-grandmother (who lives in a castle in Scotland) is missing.
(Seriously, is wool something people would smuggle?)A continuity error is that the bad guys try to dissuade Nancy from going to Scotland before even Nancy knows she's going there or that there is any other mystery, though it seems like River Heights is the center of the crime universe.No one loses consciousness or even gets kidnapped but there are a lot of car crashes and a houseboat flips over once.
I remember the first time I read Nancy Drew. It blew my mind that there were girls presented with a brain. Most of the stuff I'd read up to that time, was that girls were sugar and spice - fluffy. No brains. To also learn about George who is a tomboy was a nice validation. Carolyn Keene wrote just for me! That is how I felt. When I did more research, I was shocked to find out, Ms. Keene was actually a man ... writing under Frank Dixon. I also loved the Hardy Boys. No wonder I loved these series.
-YESIs it a good mystery story ?- NoThe clue of the whistling Bagpipes" is 41st edition in the Nancy drew series and though I thoroughly enjoyed its successor i.e.
As a matter of fact this mystery do not have much to do with any mysterious occurances or criminal activities.You will feel like reading a travelogue about one Scottish city and the otherThe excursion to Scotland is described in depth with all the important places of interest mentioned.
Interesting facts about scotland are discussed at great lengths.The girls are primarily touring Scotland with just a tiny speck of mystery here and there till you reach halfway to the book.
The first Nancy Drew mystery that I awarded only 3 stars to. I found it lacking in action, and was bored with the trip to Scotland and all its unfamiliar terms. The mystery didn't seem all that gripping to me.
This book padded it's read-time excessively by filling every other page with Scottish History to distract from there being very little story. I know readers are expected to suspend disbelief when reading this series but I've read other ND books with better plots than this.
heirlooms and smuggling rackets. Nancy heads to Scotland.
Ho amato molto questo personaggio in gioventù rileggerlo ora però mi è parso un po' meno brillante, troppo perfetta la figura di Nancy, esagerata la gentilezza e l'ospitalità scozzese.
I am still in my read through of the original Nance Drew series. I saw this one at the library so I grabbed it. Cute, quick read.
Nancy Drew is timeless and a good role model for girls!
I really like this book because it is just full of mysteries. I like it because it has at least 2 mysteries and they are all solved by Nancy Drew! I love Nancy Drew's mysteries because I am just fascinated by how she always solves them and she makes people the happiest than they could be because they know that they aren't going to be terrorized by someone again.
The Clue of the Whistling Bagpipes  is a children's story by Carolyn Keene (pseudonym) and the 41st book in the  Nancy Drew  series. Warnings not to go to Scotland can't stop Nancy Drew from setting out on a thrill-packed mystery adventure. Undaunted by the vicious threats, the attractive young detective—with her father and her two close friends—goes to visit her great-grandmother at an imposing estate in the Scottish Highlands, and to solve the mystery of a missing family heirloom.And there is
Undaunted by the vicious threats, the attractive young detective—with her father and her two close friends—goes to visit her great-grandmother at an imposing estate in the Scottish Highlands, and to solve the mystery of a missing family heirloom.And there is another mystery to be solved: the fate of flocks of stolen sheep.Baffling clues challenge Nancy's powers of deduction: a note written in the ancient Gaelic language, a deserted houseboat on Loch Lomond, a sinister red-bearded stranger in Edinburgh, eerie whistling noises in the Highlands.
Even though I haven’t re-read any of these books since I was a child, I still think that Nancy is a great character—her courage, confidence and fierce independence, makes her an iconic source of inspiration for young girls everywhere.
It wasn't the best book in the series, in my opinion, because there were some things that were used a lot in the other books too, like the villain trying to run Nancy's car off the road.
Also, Ned used handwriting analysis to try to find out who might have written a warning note to Nancy, and concluded that it was written by a "shy, motherly person, probably elderly".
I don't know much about handwriting analysis, but it doesn't seem like it would be a very exact science, so such a precise description and perfect match seem kind of farfetched.
Perhaps not the best Nancy Drew story, but definitely worth reading.
Here's my Grade 6 review:"The book is The Clue of the Whistling Bagpipes, by Carolyn Keene.
One bit of action is where Nancy, Bess, George and Fiona are driving off a ferry and the car gets rammed into the water.
Another bit with action is when the four are hiking up Ben Nevis (a mountain, not a person) and George gets pushed down by a red-bearded stranger.
So, all in all, you can learn [from:] and enjoy The Clue of the Whistling Bagpipes, by Carolyn Keene."As if you can only learn about bagpipes if you have Scottish roots.
A valuable heirloom that was to come to Nancy has been stolen .In addition to that sheep's are being stolen at night in scotland. Will Nancy be able to solve two mysteries at once? To find out read the book.
In this book nancy travels to Scotland.
Nancy also goes through many trials before she leaves.
Bess also enters Nancy's picture in a competition, which makes her more well known as a detective, and allows Bess and George to go to Scotland with Nancy.
When they arrive in Scotland, they all go to their hotel rooms.
They were actually put in Mr. Dewar's room.
They save a girl and her mom from drowning in their house boat.
The neighbors talk about these men that are staying in one of the house boats.
The story involves one specific theft and a general type of theft.
An heirloom that was supposed to go to Nancy has disappeared and is presumed stolen.
Secondly, bunches of sheep are being stolen.
There's even a bomb in a mailbox.In other words, the usual events happen to Nancy.
What makes this book different is that the author has added a good bit of history of the bagpipes along with Scottish history.
The bagpipe history bit is particularly interesting.The book is worth reading for those parts alone.
I thought this book was okay.
The beginning wasn't that engaging, but slowly, I started to enjoy the book and Nancy's adventure.
The mystery starts with a heirloom getting lost from Nancy's great grandmother.
Then, Ned Nickerson suggested solving the mystery of the stolen sheep while Nancy is in Scotland.
Later in the book, Nancy finds out that both mysteries are connected.
The gang that stole sheep also stole the heirloom for more money.
Unfortunately for the leader of the gang, Mr. Dewer, he tripped and the heirloom fell into the pond near Nancy's great grandmother's estate.
It ending was really nice.
Hooray for Nancy! She solved another mystery and emerged unscathed, having learned not only how to foil bad guys on foreign turf but also how to perform on the bagpipes. Faithful boyfriend Ned Nickerson plays only a small role in this book, set in Scotland, and Nancy's dad is even less prominent. Still, Nancy, Bess and George come through. Reading a book from the series that enthralled me decades ago, during my youth, made for some fun winter nights during an especially cold January. I recommend a trip to the world of Nancy Drew to anyone of any age!
Sigh.
I read, loved and collected all the Nancy Drew books when I was a girl; I had a bunch of originals from the 50s and 60s that my mom had also read and loved.
This year for a reading challenge, I decided to re-read this one for the "book from your childhood" category.
It's not as enjoyable as it was when I was 10, as I know better now that a lot of what Nancy does could never really happen; but I'll give it three stars for nostalgia and the hope that young girls at least still enjoy her shenanigans.
I enjoyed that the book was set in Scotland and all 3 girls played a big role in solving the mystery. Fun destinations and lots of Bess and George are two of the things I love in Nancy Drew books. My one big complaint was that it seemed like the mysteries were very loosely connected, and that it felt like for a chunk of the book there was a lot of the bad guys going after Nancy and company without much detecting or much information about what exactly was going on with the mysteries.
I don't know if I'm just too old for this series now, or what, but I didn't think the writing style was the best. It relies on a lot of dull or cliched descriptions.That being said, it's kind of fun to sit down and fly through a mystery story like this, and I did love that it was set in Scotland. (But come on, Nancy learns how to play the bagpipes in like, 10 minutes? Give me a break.)
First review:Nancy Drew travels to Scotland, and her great-grandmother's estate to unearth her lost inheritance. On the way, she rounds up a sheep-pilfering gang, who uses the chanters on bagpipes as their signal for their illegal operations. Second Review: This Nancy Drew book always interested me, because I love Scotland and Scottish culture.
