https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/493212.Propaganda
Bernays argues that the manipulation of public opinion is necessary for a stable and well functioning society.
Five stars because this is the kind of stuff you aren't taught in history class."THE systematic study of mass psychology revealed to students the potentialities of invisible government of society by manipulation of the motives which actuate man in the group.
If we understand the mechanism and motives of the group mind, is it not possible to control and regiment the masses according to our will without their knowing it?" pg47"If you can influence the leaders, either with or without their conscious cooperation, you automaticallyinfluence the group which they sway.
This is a brief little instruction manual on the usage of propaganda, primarily as a public relations tool for businesses and corporations.
Here propaganda has two goals: molding the minds of the public so as to teach or 'improve' them as they cannot govern themselves, or improving their relationships with the business sector.The political usage of propaganda is only briefly discussed, but here the ideas are so commonly used as to be obvious.
The 'engineering of consent,' which is seemingly a spin from Lippman's term 'the manufacture of consent,' is in Bernays eyes, a process that must be utilized by a specialized class of men in order to influence, control, and direct the minds of the common man.
In this book as well as Lippman's, there is an underlying belief that "the common man," left to his own will is lost and bewildered, and must be controled and regimented in order to make 'proper' and 'correct' decisions.
The fact that I am struggling to come up with a rating for this book, because I feel extremely ambivalent about its contents, doesn't mean it is not a book that shouldn't be read. It's an extremely important history book for anyone interested in how society really works...
مستعيناً بعمه سيغموند فرويد، استطاع بيرنيز تطويع وتطوير البروباجندا من أجل السيطرة على عقول العامة وتوجيهها، وليعلن بذلك بداية عصر المستهلك.
اكتشف بيرنيز أن هناك غرائز ودوافع خفية تتحكم في سلوك الإنسان، وأن هذه الدوافع الخفية يمكن استخدامها من أجل التسويق لسلعة ما، وذلك عن طريق إشباعها.
لذلك يرى إدوارد أن البروباجندا هي الوسيلة الوحيدة لكي يستطيع الصفوة من المتنورة السيطرة على الغالبية الغوغاء.
يعتقد بيرنيز أن البروباجندا يمكن استخدامها لأغراض سلمية وإيجابية، كوسيلة لإعلاء صوت الأقليات والمقهورين، أو لنشر قيم مجتمعية معينة كالعدل وتقبل الآخر، لكن ربما هذه وسيلة أخرى من وسائله لتسويق سلعته هذه المتمثلة في هذا الكتاب.
Published in 1928, the book is an attempt to rehabilitate "propaganda" as a nece3ssary and ultimately benevolent part of a democratic society.
While that attempt failed in the narrow sense--it was running an uphill battle in the wake of WW I with Hitler and Stalin just down the road--Bernays is damn near prophetic in his vision of Public Relations as the central organizing principle of every sphere of modern life: business, politics, education, art....What's stunning is how absolutely open Bernays is about his vision.
You can get most of what's in the book by reading it, but that would be like settling for the abstract of a Stephen King novel.
[...] They govern us by their qualities of natural leadership, their ability to supply needed ideas and by their key position in the social structure."[...]"No serious sociologist any longer believes that the voice of the people expresses any divine or specially wise and lofty idea.
The voice of the people expresses the mind of the people, and that mind is made up for it by the group leaders in whom it believes and by those persons who understand the manipulation of public opinion.
It's quite possibly the best part of this book, which gives the basic tenants of the positive and negative aspects of propaganda since its first use in World War I.
These basic tenants boil down to the disturbing but not unknown means by which "public relations" experts shape and manipulate public opinion in the interests of government and corporations.
But those first 95 pages are essential reading for all of us who, as the publisher states, "wish to understand how power is used by the ruling elite of our society." Especially at this time in our country's history when greed is ruling our economy and craziness is threatening to take over our government.
The first sentence says it all: "The conscious and intelligent manipulation of the organized habits and opinions of the masses is an important element in a democratic society." Just how we reconcile 'manipulation' with 'democracy' isn't something Bernays is particularly worried about---for him, business leaders are exemplums of Social Darwinism who have risen to the top because they're best suited to save society from the messiness of mob mentality.
Still, PROPAGANDA is a pretty chilling reminder that some people genuinely do believe that consent MUST be engineered for America and democracy to exist.
In the old days, propaganda just meant what modern-day PR means: advocating on behalf of an organization (or government or business) and explaining and justifying the institution to the public.Here are some choice quotes from Bernays' book:The conscious and intelligent manipulation of the organized habits and opinions of the masses is an important element in democratic society.
In a modern mass democracy, the elite cannot force the serfs to accept unpopular or unproven ideas.
Therefore, the elite has the problem of governing the rabble in a mass democracy.So, the elite promotes and shapes information to influence the desires of the masses - thereby garnering the consent of the governed.
The masses may even believe themselves to be the source of societal, economic or political change.I think the takeaway for you is to consider the role of information in a society and what marketing may be called upon to do from time to time.Edward Bernays (a nephew of Sigmund Freud no less!) wrote the book.
This was one of the first books to articulate this concept (1928).
"Propaganda will never die out. Intelligent men must realise that propaganda is the modern instrument by which they can fight for productive ends and help to bring order out of chaos." Propaganda is a loaded term. And not many associations we have with it today are positive - it makes us think of politicians trying to get your vote, companies trying to get your purchase. But in Propaganda, Edward L. Bernays examines the origins and functions of a concept that he sees as the fundamental part of
But in Propaganda, Edward L.
It's an examination of how propaganda shapes public opinions and how it influences politics, business, art and science.
A lot of it might seem like common knowledge today, but it's astonishing when you think about the fact that this has been written in 1928 - almost a century ago!
And still it is relevant, when we look at how social media influences what teenagers consider beautiful, when we think of how runway trends shape the latest fashion trends or even how adverts convince us of the superiority of a product.It's a short, but fascinating and somehow even scary read.
You'll hardly find anything new in this book.
He's one of the fathers of PR (a term he used instead of propaganda, because the latter word had acquired some negative connotations after the War) and he seems steel confident that propaganda is an absolutely necessary tool in a democratic society.
He, one of those who revolutioned propaganda, simply says that "yes, it may be abused and misused" and that's all.
His naivety may easily be explained by the fact that this book is itself a form of propaganda, it's propagandising propaganda and trying to make it more acceptable to the public opinion.
I didn`t believe Propiganda was real till I read this easy to read Book on Controling human beings minds Withouth their Knowledge.
This book is the most powerful book on mind control of the masses ever allowed to be seen by the public.
It is all about Controling others without their knowledge.
Those who manipulate this unseen mechanism of society constitute an invisible government which is the true ruling power of our country."As modern humans, we like to think our status/dignity derives from the ability to make choices — to find oneself, or shape one's own destiny and identity.
It recognizes that "men are very largely actuated by motives which they conceal from themselves."A great illustration (not touched on in this book) is Bernays' "Torches of Freedom" campaign to encourage women to smoke cigarettes.
Women are being manipulated into lives of slavery to tobacco by invisible wirepullers (as Bernays call people like himself).
Some parts brilliant, some parts frightening, one thing is true, he had a low opinion of democracy.
Edvard Bernajs, koji se smatra ocem propagande i odnosa s javnošću, objavio ju je u Njujorku 1928.
godine, a ovo je, koliko je meni poznato, prvi i jedini prevod ovog naslova na srpski jezik.
Pravi kuriozitet predstavlja činjenica da je Bernajs ovu knjigu, čiji je podnaslov "Stvaranje javnog mnjenja", pisao ne kao teoretičar ovog fenomena, već kao čovek kojem je stvaranje propagande bio posao.
Neke od propagandnih kampanja ovog austrijsko-američkog Jevrejina ticale su se cigareta Lucky Strike i fluorizacije američke vode.
S obzirom na to da sam je čitao u vreme predizbornih kampanja, pomogla mi je da uvidim koliko je lako manipulisati javnim mnjenjem.
Edward Bernay's had a very hopeful and optimistic view on the use of propaganda to achieve social and political change. It truly did work at one time. But as usual, the positives of the past become the negatives of the present.
Reading books like this is a good start towards understanding how great masses of people continue to be pawns and sheep.
Much of the book is a waste of space but it's a short read and a few gems make it worth your time.
It almost seems like the confession of a man who feels guilty but is still justifying himself.Karl Rove said, "We're an empire now, and when we act, we create our own reality.
And while you're studying that reality—judiciously, as you will—we'll act again, creating other new realities, which you can study too, and that's how things will sort out.
This book is a classic for a writer who basically innovated the craft of advertisement as we know it today.
Being Freud's nephew, he took his uncle's teachings of human psychology to come up with these fresh ideas, hence it's pretty interesting to see the underlying linkage between the teachings of the two men.As any other classic, you don't expect something you're not already familiar with, after all the art of propaganda has advanced a lot in unfathomable ways at the moment but it's nice to see the basics stripped bare.
A manuscript expounding the dubious virtue of a de facto paternalistic dictatorship--nonetheless asserted by the author as being benevolent and democratic--in which its presumed inherently incompetent and chronically uninformed members are taken by the proverbial hand in everything they do by invisible authority figures utilizing ubiquitous propaganda.
It's a work of propaganda (on propaganda itself also) that strongly reminded me of that ancient other work of propaganda on the definition of an ideal (Nanny) State: The Republic by Plato (actually, by Socrates and recorded by his pupil Plato).
The book also reminded me of Goebbels and his confession that he admired Bernays' work and went to base Nazi propaganda on it.
It is amazing how relevant this book still is, despite being published in 1928.
It’s more about public relations, government, and marketing than it is about selling.
I read it off an old, terrible, scanned PDF, and was thrilled to see it finally reprinted for modern consumption.
This book goes deep in to the public psyche–the consciousness of the masses.
Bernays depicts public society as a dangerous, irrational collective that requires manipulation in order to function in a democratic manner over the long term.
It’s a little Machiavellian, kind of dystopian, and very psychoanalytical (he was the nephew of Freud, after all), but it is a great read.
I dunno about this.
On one hand, yes propaganda has proved to be extremely effective in molding public opinion and purchasing patterns.
On the other it only works in very specific scenarios and is quite limited in what can be accomplished.
The book is very outdated.
Nowadays we get exposed to propaganda and counter propaganda constantly.
At this point, a good propaganda campaign is something that is necessary.
Without it, any idea will be crushed by their opponents propaganda.
I would say read the first 3 or 4 chapters, the rest just isn't relevant except for people who are really interested in this subject.
Indeed as the author said: "propaganda will never die out". Even though this book was written many decades ago, its contents are still very much relevant today albite with more modern means. Concise and very informative.
Scary stuff. If you think you aren't being manipulated, I've got news for you...
A forgotten classic, maybe it's good so few people know about it.
Мені здається, що на сьогодні вона буде цікава / корисна або з історичного погляду, або для людини, яка невинно нічогісінько не читала про те, як працює реклама чи політтехнології.
Бернейс багато уваги приділяє впливові на авторитетів (адже саме вони -- ті, хто ведуть за своєю думкою розрізнені групи, з яких і складається більшість), а також тому, що потрібно створювати потреби, а не просто задовольняти їх.
Я б окремо виділила те, що Бернейс постійно пише про важливість людини, яка і займається пропагандою, -- він називає її "консультант зі зв*язків із громадськістю".
Але, попри всі завіряння Бернейса, реклама просто так не працює: вона легко може використати правдиві дані для того, щоб принести прибутки певній корпорації.
Edward Bernays was one of the founders of modern public relations and the namer of the art.
Bernays considered public relations to be an unfortunately necessary euphemistic synonym.
He preferred to focus on the propagate root of propaganda and considered the activity a value neutral tool that could be used for good as well as harm.The book, published in 1928, is an interesting historical document that is still relevant today.
Considering that propaganda is universal today, and more sophisticated, it behooves the modern person to know something about its techniques.
In this book Bernays - a professional propagandist - lays out the benefits and overall use of propaganda.
In a time where we are continuously bombarded with propaganda, it is important to peer behind the veil and consider the minds and motivations of the men who formulate and release mass propaganda campaigns.
Four stars because Bernays often looks at this issue through rose-colored glasses (presumably because of his professional life dedicated to the subject) and does not address the nefarious uses of these techniques adequately.
Propaganda really has gotten a bad rap. It is the force by which chaos is transformed into order. Bernays makes it very clear that he does not believe propaganda is brainwashing, and that the intelligent public relations agent, marketer, or propagandist would do well not to underestimate their audience. Those that speak truthfully, understand their market, and attempt to mesh their ideas with the public rather than leading them like a horse with a yoke will find great results.
