https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/492037.Miss_Bunting
I don't care if Thirkell's characters could have lived.
All I care is the world she created in her series.
I live there when I read her books.From the first pages, I liked Jane, Robin and Frank.
Frank reminded me very much of Tony (one of my favorite characters of series).
I come from Central Europe and I know also Balkan nations a little and I can tell that a satire of them all in Thirkell's novels is one of the best.I was enchanted by a parallel between Jane's and Robin's losses.
While knowing the Trollope series isn't required to enjoy this novel, it does add a spice to the storyline revolving about Mr. Adams of Hogglestock.
Although I laughed aloud at several points while reading this, this novel (written at the end of WW2) has a feeling of sadness, not just about the dead & wounded men but for the loss of a state of society Thirkell had captured so wonderfully in the early books in the series.
Зато все друг другу кузены и крестные и бесконечно передаривают тетушкины жемчуга и прабабкин сапфировый перстень.Miss Bunting -- поздний роман, и читать его лучше не первым у Тиркелл, так как в нем постоянно передаются приветы от персонажей предыдущих книг, и если вы их читали, вам будет приятно узнать, например, что мальчик, который когда-то увлекался паровозами, вырос, пошел на войну, выжил в ней и по-прежнему не унывает, или что у семейной четы, которую вы в последний раз видели в компании трех детей, теперь их уже шесть.
И еще они понимают, что эти дни -- последние недели войны -- закат довоенного образа жизни и довоенного мира, который они так любили и который казался бесконечным.
I loved the earlier Barsetshire books (pre-war), but this one definitely wasn't one of my favourites - too much glaring elitism!If you're interested in reading anything by Thirkell, I highly recommend you try High Rising, The Brandons and/or Wild Strawberries :)Anyhow, back to Miss Bunting:The treatment of Mr. Adams and Heather particularly troubled me.
Seriously, they're trying to be nice, and people are looking down on them because of the [stupid!] class hierarchy.
Considering that, I could hardly believe this quote:'The Admiral...had always liked his womenfolk good-looking or smart, preferably both.'I don't recommend this particular book, but she's written some other brilliant ones.
This month's book for the Angela Thirkell reading group. I love contemporary British fiction from this era, particularly books that take place during the Second World War. While she is a snob of the first order,Angela Thirkell is one of the few authors who chronicled the war year by year through her fiction.
Why has it taken me so long to find Angela Thirkell? She is a 20th Century successor to Elizabeth Gaskell -- whom I LOVE -- using many of the same fictional settings as Anthony Trollope in his Barchester series. I am looking forward to many happy hours with both Thirkell and Trollope.
Mrs. Jane Gresham, not quite a widow but most definitely a mother, is charged with finding Heather Adams a suitable place to live and thus makes the acquaintance of the girl and her robust father.
Jane's friend Robin Dale, a schoolmaster, has returned from the Italian theater of the war without a foot.
He teaches Jane's young son Frank, Frank's best friend Tom Watson and a few other boys to prepare them for Southbridge and other preparatory schools and looks after his elderly clergyman father.
The two characters I liked in this novel were Anne and Robin.
I would have liked Jane if she wasn't such a snob.
Also part of the action are Robin Dale, a schoolmaster who's back from the front with an amputated foot; Anne Fielding, a 17-year-old who's just on the cusp of grown-up-ness; Miss Bunting, an aging governess who represents the end of an era; and Sam and Heather Adams, a father and daughter who are nouveau riche, good at heart, but not fitting in very well.Interesting thing about British books written in this time period by a certain class of author.
The author takes it for granted that if you're reading her books, you have at least a smattering of French and a working knowledge of whatever was considered classic and also popular literature 50 to 100 years ago.
I enjoy Angela Thirkell's books and pick them up wherever I can find them; as another reviewer noted here, yes, she is a snob of the first order, but honestly so for her class and time.
I enjoy her satirical eye, her characters, and her portrayal of everyday life in the small English villages of Barsetshire at the end of WWII; I would recommend her to fans of Trollope, Gaskell, Austen, Wodehouse and E.F. Benson - not in their league, perhaps, but fun all the same.
One of the best of Thirkell's Barsetshire series, written in 1945.
A tribute to wounded veterans, cottage industries that supported the British war effort, wives whose husbands were MIA for months and years on end, and a hierarchical society being undermined by manufacturing and war.
Thirkell gets her characters just right, not to mention all the clever humor.I have been familiar for this series for many years, and just today I had an interesting revelation: take Sam Adams, the self-confident, self-made, generous engineer; then subtract most of his money and add a bit more education, and you have my paternal grandfather.
I don't think I'm going to continue reading Thirkell's books. She's lost the sparkle and wit I loved in her pre-war and early-war novels. Her characters now spend much of their time sitting around and talking openly about how lower class every one is these days. It may have been how she felt after the war, and it may have been true, but the repetition becomes dreary to read.
Quit about a quarter of the way through. Had some of the feel of a book written 100 years earlier, but without much wit or developed depth of character. Just didn't care enough about any of it to finish.
NOT Moyer Bell version shown above. Mine is Hamish Hamilton, hardbound, 1945/1974. With dust jacket.Sweet...continuing the closeness of Barsetshire society. Anne Fielding, Jane Gresham, Miss B, of course...and all the others. Begins the redemption of Sam Adams (and Heather--sort of).
See my review here:https://whatmeread.wordpress.com/2015...
The first Thirkell I couldn't like and quite possibly the most boring book I've ever read.
Charming and slightly snobby as always, but she does allow Mr. Adams to start to become a real character, rather than a wealthy lower-class buffoon, as he was in some danger of becoming.
But I saw that I had it, read about the author (who is often compared to Anthony Trollope), and figured what the heck?Miss Bunting is an elderly, respected governess who is employed for a summer to work with Anne Fielding, a young woman of some means whose parents want her to get some extra help.
They bemoan the fact that the New Town residents are tradesmen, and industrialists, without the proper manners and nuances of class.
The book basically takes the framework of Miss Bunting and Anne, and brings in others of the Old Town and New Town who enter and leave their universe during the summer of the book.
One of our members offered to do a talk on this book for our latest meeting and I wanted to be prepared.
I was not immediately drawn into the book and struggled with it for the first several chapters.
What I noticed the most was the the title character was barely present in the first half of the book.
By the second half of the book it seemed to flow much better and I began to enjoy it.
The talk offered some additional insight while helped to add more to the overall experience of the book.
Not my favourite of the series - and displaying some of the more dated attitudes of the time - but still a lot of fun to read. Definitely a class comedy and musings on the changes that the Second World War brought - even beyond the upheaval of the First World War. I liked it, although it took a bit of getting in to. I definitely wouldn't recommend it as a starting point for the series though.
I'm not sure if I'll finish this. It's ok, but not exactly gripping. Betsy-Tacy is more engaging. God, I got about 15% through this and gave up. It was mostly idle blather, meant to be funny, but it wasn't much doing it for me. Boy have I hit a dark patch, something like 4 give-ups in a row, and I can generally force myself to read almost anything. Thank God I have more Betsy-Tacy.
Not one of my favorites, but still lovely to read because I always like being in Barsetshire. I did like Anne and Robin and Jane immensely and thought the various endings for these characters were very fitting.
Set during WWII, this is, understandably, not as light as Thirkell's other books. While it was still an enjoyable read, wartime austerity, wounded veterans and husbands MIA are nowhere near as enchanting as the lives of the gentry and upper middle-class before the war.
The fourteenth Barsetshire novel is a charming period piece best appreciated in the context of the mid-twentieth century English countryside in which it is set.
You either love Angela Thirkell or you don't get her. Well I loved this one.A very satisfactory bittersweet ending too.Thirkell fans will love this.
I enjoyed this very much. It had me googling all the literary & poetic allusions. Another addictive book in the Barsetshire series.
Gentle British Comedy of MannersJust as with most of Angela Thirkell's books,this is set in an English village in the 1940's. An aged governess is persuaded to oversee the education and training of a young girl in poor health. Over the course of a few months several interrelated stories introduce us to many engaging characters. I can recommend any of Thirkell's novel; they are heartwarming, engaging and sentimental while skillfully giving a glimpse into the lifestyle and class system of England before and during WWII.
