https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149187.The_Book_of_Small

This is a delightful collection of short stories and a must read for anyone living in Victoria and particularly for anyone who spends a lot of time in James Bay, as I do.
I especially enjoyed the local references and will be looking at the James Bay area with new awareness.The stories depict domestic life in Victoria in the late 1800’s.
There is some glimmers of Emily's artistic nature in her mention of her preference for the “wild places” as opposed to the neat organized English gardens of the time.
Her description of nature and her personalization of inanimate objects also illustrated her artistic nature.
This is a semi-autobiographical book written by Emily Carr about her childhood years growing up in prim and proper Victoria, British Columbia.
She is the girl who proudly walked with her Father on his daily route to his job, enjoying the neighbors and Victoria along the way.
I rue not being willing to mark up this book with its soft feel and new look.
The descriptive phrases are worthy of relishing once more.As with the other books by Emily, I feel drawn to Victoria, especially on Victoria Day. One of these days, the desire will carry me over the mountains and across the ferry...
I read this second, after 'Growing Pains the autobiography of Emily Carr'.
This memoir is seen through Emily's childhood years in Victoria, BC.
The book incorporates Victoria itself, the changes it went through and it's evolution as a British colony.
It's like another character.It's only a little book, but was an absolute pleasure.
I'd recommend it to anyone who enjoys history (Emily was born in 1871) or who knows Victoria B.C Canada, as a lot of places are named and described.
For those who want to read about her art, this isn't the book because it's focused only on her childhood years.
This book is in my Top Twenty.
I'm not fond of Ms.Carr's paintings, even though that's probably treasonous for a Canadian to say (what the heck, I hate the Group of Seven too - or at least six of them, if you must know), but by George, she's one of the most entertaining autobiographers out there - and I'm not confining that to Canadian writers.
Emily Carr is full of life and cleverness and sass.
I own "Growing Pains", the next installment of her autobiographical works, but I'm holding off, so I can savor it.
I highly recommend this book.
This is a collection of autobiographical anecdotes or remembrances from Emily Carr's life in Victoria, mostly from early childhood (ages 4-8). She writes wonderfully and really captures viewpoint and feeling of childhood, when so many things don't make sense. However, life was hard and parents often harsh, so this may not be the best read for younger children; I know if I had read it as a kid there would have been some parts that upset me, especially relating to the treatment of animals.
This is the first book of Emily Carr's that I have read and I loved it.
I mainly read it on the way to work and was gob smacked to be walking along the very streets in Victoria which she describes so vividly, 140 years earlier: cows wandering along the three-plank sidewalks up Government Street; a dump in the inner harbour mudflats where the Empress Hotel now stands; the the Carr homestead just steps from my office building; and the quirky cast of characters who were the citizens of the sleepy outpost of Victoria, B.C. Seldom have I read a book that so perfectly captures the voice of a child and her small world.
Why this book is not required reading in Canadian public schools is beyond me, especially here in Victoria.
Once again Emily Carr delights us with a thoughtful remembrance of growing up in Victoria on Vancouver Island. This book reminds me of the Little House on the Prairie series. If you are a middle child or a younger child in a large family then you will relate to the injustices of the older children and the adults!
Short stories of childhood memories, growing up with well to do proper English parents, in a large family. Beautifully crafted but content is the stuff in little girls heads.
The consummate artist, Emily Carr uses her beautiful prose to paint a vivid picture of early Victoria through the eyes of her younger self. A delight!!
Tried to read it, but found her writing painfully dull.
I did feel that the first half was a little slow, getting to know her and her family, but by the end of the book, I felt as if I knew Ms. Carr well and could imagine walking the streets of young Victoria.
Having moved to British Columbia 4 years ago, and only visited Victoria a couple of short times, I loved learning about the early history of our capital city.
I found myself checking Google Maps constantly to see where each story was taking place; now I can't wait to go back to Victoria!
Victorian life in early Victoria, described through a little girl's eyes. An easy read and 100% delightful.
I would compare this book to autobiographical works by Agatha Christie and Laurie Lee. I love Christie's writing because she brings her characters so distinctly to life that they fairly leap off the page.
In the beginning she discusses her childhood living among family and farm animals.
Her descriptions of the farm animals are quite sweet.
Townspeople, the same - she had a few favorites who get a little more attention, but it's like she feels she needs to get someone's description out of the way in order to rush on to the next story.
These would make good stories to read aloud to a child, although I wish that there had been some illustrations.
Perhaps because Carr was an artistic yet did not create illustrations, it's been thought presumptious to add them, but children relate to pictures as well as words.Carr has an unusual writing voice.
Most writers in English describe how a scene looks & sometimes how things sound.
More rarely, they address smells, tastes, and how things feel to the touch.
She tends to write as she apparently thought when young & that gives immediacy to her communication of her sensory perceptions.
Truly loved this book.
I am a huge fan of Emily Carr but cannot believe it has taken me this long to read one of her books.
She is an amazing writer as well!
I borrowed this book from the library but anticipate buying it myself for re-reads!I highly recommend this book to anyone either a fan of Emily but more importantly if they love Victoria, BC.
It was so interesting reading about my beautiful hometown and what it was like to live here 120 to 60 years ago!Her ability to narrate from her perspective as a "small" girl even though she was 70 years old when she wrote this book made it so amusing!
Highly recommend!
She has that weird attachment to the presence of things, a propensity that means that the world will never add up, it'll never be more than the sum of its parts, but. The parts are enough. more than enough. The love of the fur, the smell, the green, the water, the buzzing of it all, leads one to renounce any thought of transcendence in favor of lying down forever with the mortal remains of what one has loved.
Such a GEM of a book. Who knew that Emily Carr, one of the greatest Canadian painters of the 20th century, could also write like a dream?Her descriptions of life in Victoria, where she grew up in the 1870s and 80s, are perfection. One of those people who really LOOK and do not forget their own childhood, Carr captures a small girl's universe in all it's glorious detail, from irritating aunts and pet tragedies to the blazing beauty of the landscape around her.
I started reading Emily Carr's books while on a vacation with my dad in Victoria, BC, near where Emily Carr grew up. Her art is famous, but sadly her writing has faded into the background. IT shouldn't - it's brilliant. This book is a childhood memoir in the best old-fashioned sense. IT's a quick read and a lot of fun. The history is interesting and the family dynamic is great. Maybe not for everybody, but I sure liked it, even at 16.
This book is really two in one. One part, mostly the second half, is local history: a child's colorful memories of Victoria in the 19th century. The other part, of more general interest, is a child's-eye view of family life from one who didn't quite fit in: the future artist who as a little girl was known simply as "Small". It may not be great literature, but it does a great job of bringing a certain time and place to life in a personal way.
Carr captured detailed vignettes of her childhood, for all of the senses. Not only her painterly impressions, but the sounds and smells of early Victoria are brought to life. She evokes the rumbling wooden bridges and the childhood dread of the mud-flat smell underneath. But my favourite part is the characterization of a historical figure who Carr gave an alias to protect from her sharp portrayal.
Read this in Victoria, BC, Emily Carr's hometown and the setting of this memoir of her early childhood. I think Carr captures childhood beautifully, and I enjoy her sentences as well as her humor and eye.
The first part was charming and quirky when she was telling the story of her childhood through the eyes of "Small", her name for herself as a child. When she shifts to telling the history of Victoria, the writing becomes conventional, well done, but rather stuffy.
I do love her writing and the window she opens to what life was like for a child of an English immigrant shopkeeper in early colonial Victoria. It's worth reading for both of those things. But I cringed almost every time she wrote about First Nations and Chinese Victorians.
A beautiful hidden gem that I was sad not have read before now. A semi-autobiographical text, Small has a voice that echoed through my head. As an outdoorsy Canadian, her depictions of nature are eerily on point for me, and they really bring you through the woods.
A delightful book, especially if you're a fan of Emily Carr. I would recommend this as a companion book to take along if you're visiting Victoria, BC. Lots of history, and fun reading to boot!
Excellent, excellent. Fine Canadian writing. Carr writes so vividly, the artist that she is. What a breath of fresh air for me, particularly since my last few reads have been decidedly meh.
Have always liked her paintings but never read any of her writing. Turns out I like the way she writes too! A nice read, especially if you like Victoria.
I appreciate Carr's writing as much as I do her visual art. Her memoirs simply paint with words rather than pigment.
From the book box that dutch-flybabe sent to me.
