https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/327242.Anatomy_for_the_Artist
(More pictures at parkablogs.com)Sarah Simblet's anatomy book is a bit of a mixed bag for me.Unlike other anatomy books, this one features lots of stunning photography of the body in nude. The models have lean muscular figures and the lighting and poses are great. Some photos are used as underlays with translucent skeleton overlays on top. Unfortunately, there aren't any muscles overlay using this method.As a book that's targeted at artists, I thought the drawings were not good enough. They are
(More pictures at parkablogs.com)Sarah Simblet's anatomy book is a bit of a mixed bag for me.Unlike other anatomy books, this one features lots of stunning photography of the body in nude.
Unfortunately, there aren't any muscles overlay using this method.As a book that's targeted at artists, I thought the drawings were not good enough.
Overall, the book lacks the depth of coverage you find in other anatomy books like Human Anatomy for Artists by Eliot Goldfinger, which presents layers over layers of muscles each in different drawings, or the concise explanation of Classic Human Anatomy: The Artist's Guide to Form, Function, and Movement by Valerie L.
Winslow.With its great photography but not very defined drawings, it's a general anatomy reference book at best.
Some nice photographs and drawings however all the models are a bit too perfect. It would have been more interesting if more body shapes and different ages were included. Also the unnaturally coiffed body hair is a bit distracting. I found the anatomical drawings of most use. The text was not really helpful or instructive to me. I think this is aimed more at those with an interest in life drawing rather than for experienced practitioners. Having said that, it is a beautiful book with some lovely transparent overlays. The male models are gorgeous.
Very informative, agreed. Everything anyone would want to learn how to "draw". Yet i don't believe in learning art practical - if you like to draw, draw. If it's not anything similar to the object you're drawing,sketching, painting, sculpting .. it's irrelevant. What matters is if YOU enjoy art. It's yours, you created it, it's a piece of you. THAT'S art. You do not need to "learn" how to "draw" .. Subjectivism.However, Informative :)
The only complaint I have about this book is that the models are MODELS. They're too perfect looking. Most people don't have such sculpted abs, and perfect butts. And since when was drawing or sculpting boring perfect-looking people fun?
An absolute brilliant book to draw from. This book is ideal for referance work, for those who seek it i would highly recomend this. Not only does it show great quility photos of different poses and angles but also illustrate the relationship between the surface appearance of the body and the complexities of the underlying structure.
Very helpful! This book is full of descriptive text, photographs, drawings by the author, art historical references, and, unlike many books on human anatomy, it doesn't ignore the genitals. No fig leaves here, my friends!
This book is pretty crappy. It reminds me of what an anatomy book would look like if E! did an anatomy book. It's all bells and whistles... and I'm sure it sells well, but in the end the all you'll really get out of it is knowledge of what an air brushed body looks like. blaaaa.
I recommend this for any body artist...its a great book
The book is good
One of the most beautiful and detailed anatomy books.
By far the best anatomy book I have found so far. Amazing muscle reference and vellum overlays make this a permanent accessory at my desk.
An EXCELLENT resource for drawing humans, with many hard-to-get reference photos of the human body.
Regardless of whether, notwithstanding, each of those definition also contains the style related copy of model of bestial, that this essay bets compose as well as a design template wherever generally composition could very well be included.When locating a market to find a class paper, carefully consider diversities and as a result resemblances concerned with the subcategories, you will learn you get possibly be negotiated to do a amount to be able to cause a close.
Drop the weight advice the simply writing on the dissertation so the slices attach using them down in a logical healthy.
This is a good resource but I wish there was more variety in the body types. Beautiful as they are the models are all young and fit.
I found the book very useful in revising some captures human body.....
This book is the perfect blend between art and beauty of the human body.I loved it.
A wonderful resource to have in any artists' collection.
lukis peha dan pergelangan tangan masih sukar untukku,buku ini menunjukkan jalan buatku
This book is ideal for reference work, for those who seek it i would highly recommend this to all human , and it shows up how all humans body looks like and everything like that.
One fault I found in the photographs was that there was only one type of body shape having photos taken of, for a book on human anatomy there should've been more variety.
This being my first anatomy book I read, I found the information really interesting, sometimes kinda boring depending on what it was that I was reading about.
But the information helped explain any visuals in the book that were provided.
There's still quite a bit to learn, and I need to learn to apply all of this but for my first read of an anatomy book I found this really helpful.
While this is not the most interesting book in the world and definitely not the kind of thing I would choose to read in an idle Sunday afternoon, it is probably one of the most insightful that I have ever read.
For someone who is trying to learn how to draw or even improve their skills, this book is awfully useful.
When you finish reading the book, you will, at the very least, have a very good notion of the human anatomy and how it can affect your drawings.Excellent book to use as a reference.
This is a very good on anatomy, sure it doesn't go into complete detail of the human body, but it doesn't have to. As an artist's anatomy reference it's great, it covers the skeleton and muscle systems of the human body in good detail, providing a lot of information useful to artists when drawing or sculpting or whatever the human body.I'm not much of an artist, and am instead a technical person. I rig characters for animation and this book provides me with a better understanding of the human body's skeletal and muscle structures, which comes in handy.
I love how they break down the book into each major body part.
And the tracing paper overlays of the bones are just awesome.
But I wish they had just a little more variation in the view of poses and I REALLY wish they had a wider variety of of body types.
I'm not just talking about no fat people, this book seems to only have generic builds of both sexes.
All the men have slight muscle definition with hardly any body hair.
It just ends up being boring if you're using this book as a reference for drawing.
THis book is the best out there it's fantastic reference book for aspiring artists, It has a introduction on the history of the study of anatomy, then sections covering each part of the body (as well as the body as a whole). Colour and tonal photos of each part, plus full-body poses, are used throughout as examples, and there are plenty of illustrations of the skeleton and muscle structure too.
The real title: Porn For The Artist. Some of the men in here are so HOT, and the pictures of them leave nothing to the imagination. One picture is so fantastic I think about it when I'm not "reading" (oh yeah, like I really read) this book. So how on earth can I think of working with these images in front of me? I can't. I didn't buy the book for that either lol. And I can't imagine the creators think this skin-book is an "art book." Come on with your bullshit now....
Brilliant. Excellent. There is no other book that has affected my figure drawing skills in the way this has. I drew a face, read the book, drew another. That was it. No practicing or sketching. The first face looked flat. The second looked real. 950% improved just by reading their discussion on muscles, interaction and understanding. Since studying their models more fully I have produced some pretty decent human forms.
Extremely well put together, although very artsy. Of course, this is the purpose of the book. Most of the musculoskeletal drawings are sketched as opposed to drawn, which is the one thing that takes away from it. It lends itself well to understanding the support of flesh and movement but less so to the exactitude of anatomy. Jeno Barcsay is more suited to those looking for precision, although his books are very hard to find and aren't even available to rate in GoodReads...
A lovely coffee table tome full of gorgeous photos of beautiful people in extravagant poses (mostly very coy- hardly any rude bits)This is exactly what you don't want as reference if you are an artist.Nice to look through in a bored moment, but not one ounce of use for anatomy- an expensive white elephant
This is really a beautiful book, but I personally think it should be considered little more than a coffee table edition ... something to have, to enjoy and to show off. As far as an actual anatomical reference for an artist? Nah. There are many other books that do a much better job, to be sure. Even so, I am glad I have my copy.
not so much of a reading book but I can't give it enough praise for being an excellent reference book for drawing......My only complaint is that there aren't any other books this good for anatomy study
