https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/294430.Lucky_You
Bode and Chub enlist the store clerk who sold the lottery ticket to Lucks into joining them in their new anti-immigrant militia.
Bode doesn't have to talk very long before he has convinced them to attack JoLayne and steal her ticket.Meanwhile, Tom Krome, reporter, is falling for JoLayne.
Will Tom use his resources to track down Bode and Chub and get her lottery ticket back?
He will.Then, Tom's brittle boss, Sinclair, Assistant Deputy Managing Editor of Features and Style, fires Tom because he won't give up the lottery news story.
Rarely have I found an author that has made me laugh out loud so many times in one book.
This is a great story about two lottery ticket winners in Florida.
One is a young black woman that works in a vet's office and loves animals (keeps an aquarium full of 45 baby turtles that she saved) and the other is a redneck, white supremacist that doesn't feel like sharing the $28 mil., especially with a "negro".
Thus begins the story of his search for JoLayne and her ticket.
If you like a good laugh and a little mystery, give this one a shot.
Along with the romance, this was a fun sort of caper, on-the-road read as JoLayne and Tom pursue the fellows who have beaten her up and stolen her lottery ticket, as well as wreaking havoc across the state of Florida.
Hiaasen gives the reader some really strange characters, and along the way, I found myself getting sucked into this story, rooting for JoLayne and Tom, scratching my head over the psychology of such flagrant bigotry as evidenced by Chub and Bode, and enjoying the Florida local color.I've read another book by Hiaasen, but it was a long time ago.
Once again Carl Hiaasen proves why he is one of my favorite authors! Enjoyable and entertaining from the start to finish! This a stand alone book, so can enjoy without reading Hiaasen before.
This is the best Hiaasen book I've read so far! It has all the things that make him so readable, and then some: crazy fanatics of all sorts, mixed with a (very) few "normal" people, murder and mayhem like you wouldn't believe, bad folks getting their comeuppance in spades, plus multiple lottery winners, Florida wildlife, love in strange places. What a great book.
This is one of the bestest, funniest, funnest, good feelings at the end book I have ever read! Hiaasen at his best :) A pure pleasure book.
I was thinking about Carl Hiassen/Elmore Leonard books, trying to remember which ones I'd read...it's proven challenging.
Don't get me wrong, these are great books for what they are--fun summer reading.
If you're looking for complex characters or compelling literary fiction, look elsewhere, but if you just want to sit and be entertained for awhile, grab any book by either of these authors.Although I think this is my favorite of the Hiaasen books I've read, b/c of the crazy guy who finds spiritual enlightenment by rolling around in a kiddie pool full of baby turtles (cooters) LOL!
It’s odd when you set out not even knowing a book’s genre, but the novel soon enough revealed itself to be sheer humor, with just enough of a light mystery to create a little suspense along the way.
The plot was fairly original – two dumb, petty criminals named Chubb and Bode Gazzer, hit the lottery for $14M, only to learn another winner named JoLayne Lucks, a plucky veterinarian’s assistant, also has a winner worth the same amount.
One soon gets the drift that the light plot is little more than an excuse to parade about all these incredible characters!
With Carl Hiaasen, I've never had a bad experience, I thought that this was slightly weaker than the other ones I've read, because it swings very unevenly between some truly unpleasntly detailed racism and violence and racous comedy and religious satire, I was personally more engaged by the subplot involving the holy cooters(turtles) and road stain jesus than the main story line which involved two white supremicist thugs stealing a lotto ticket, the main storyline isn't bad or anything, it's just not as funny as the Holy turtles.

So do Chub and Bode, a pair of washed white-supremacist wannabes.
About a hundred pages in, Hiaasen seems to notice he is being verbally polite for a white supremacist and so lampshade hangs the n-word-less Bode and gets to it.
Took me three or four days to read, which seems kind of long considering the length and density, but pulls a fairly large cast and several subplots: except many of the characters are just there, Dave Barry-like, to be humorous asides, and most of the plots look scripted to make visual cutaways if a movie ever showed up.
In keeping with Hiaasen's custom of putting forward the most outrageous low-lifes as his hapless vil
A $28 million lottery. An African American woman wins half of it and proposes to use her winnings to save a wildlife refuge from developers. Two white would-be militia members (remember militias? They're still out there, while Bin Laden is not!)win half of it and steal her winning ticket so they can use all of it to fund their racist activities...if they can ever stop sniffling glue and posturing. And a reporter whose death has been greatly exaggerated. These are just some of the ingredients in this crazy stew of a book.
This is a great humorous novel! 10 of 10 stars
This book borders on ridiculous which makes it funny. It has so many inappropriate things happen with his white trash characters that you honestly laugh out loud on occasion.
A newspaper reporter sent to interview her about her lucky lotto ticket, joins in the hunt to outfox the miscreants, regain JoLayne's winning ticket and manage to stay alive.With the chase on, an additional number of wild and wacky characters are introduced: the town's infamous and suspicious 'miracle' workers, the reporter's wife who refuses to divorce him and the jealous husband of the reporter's ex-girlfriend.This is not edge-of-the-seat reading, this is fall-off-the-chair laughing.
Just finished reading one of Carl Hiaasen's earlier "crazed and crazier in Florida" novel: "Lucky You", in which drama and epic comedy involving winners of the state's lottery plays out. OK. Now, who's the winner of this literary lottery, pitting the eccentric, freaky Florida: Hiaasen or Randy Wayne White? Voting's not obligatory....
This is the 5th book I have read by Hiaasen and they are all interesting and amusing. Don't think I have ever read a series of books that has so many wacky but seemingly true characters.
Cute, funny, like most Hiassen's books. I was a little turned off by slightly more violence (a beating, several shootings, an attempted rape) in this one. I the fake crying Madonna statue was a funny side line. And turtles! But I sort of had it with the persistent "white trash" images as dumb, racist, violent shmucks. I get it. I may not even disagree, but enough already. Or maybe here I was not quite as taken with the "hero" as with, say, Yancy of his other novels. So 3 starts.
It was a silly read. But I'm glad it made me think. What would I do if I won the lottery?
I mean really, we age the characters, throw in a bit more sex and violence, change Pancake house to mob boss, and owls to turtles and the new novel is ready to go.As if the absurdity of the theft of the lotto ticked by white trash supremists and the introduction of the mafia wasn't enough, Hiaasen felt it was necessary to add in the abduction of the Hooters waitress.
I get that Amber was necessary to the plot later (and the return of the 2nd lotto ticket), but Hiaasen needed a better way for her to get there.Another unnecessary (and stupid) plot twist was the whole excursion to the keys.
Familiar format but the contents were fairly meh.I like Hiaasen's brand of comedy, it's satirical, dark and larger than life, I've also read enough of his books to see that he has a story framework that he uses again and again with new characters and a central theme of the Florida Keys and terrible human beings.
So, this time we have a story about a lottery ticket theft, with two white supremacists, a skinhead, a hooters girl, a black vet assitant and a journalist, and no they did not walk into a bar, but you get the gist of what it's like reading a Hiaasen novel, so how does this one fare.
Because nothing says summer quite like a white supremacist getting high off pepper spray after being stranded in the Florida Keys.I picked this up after reading Adam Gopnik's article in the New Yorker about the rise of Florida crime fiction: "In the Florida novel, moralizing or minimalist, weather matters most.
The rednecks are a dangerous combination of stupid, incompetent, and paranoid (they've stockpiled a cache of machine guns to protect AmeriKKKa) but JoLayne isn't the type of person to give up easily and she subsequently teams up with an ex-reporter to get her ticket back.There's a lot to like about this book.
I have come to lower my expectations with Hiaasen books, so maybe that is why I have started to enjoy them a little more.One irritating quality of Hiaasen's is that he always writes stereotypical redneck /southern characters and religious yokels (or charlatans) in his books.
Their views on the Constitution, and especially heinous misreading of it, are a real delight.Hiaasen always does a very nice job of creating a large cast of characters who weave in and out of the central plot of the book.
It is just in time as she is hoping to use the money to buy a plot of land to create a nature preserve.The problem for her is that the other ticket is owned by two men hoping to use their part of the funds to found a white supremacist militia.
LoJayne lives in a small community in Florida that seems to have become famous for creating small religious miracles, which adds to the quirkiness of the story.
instead, he opts to help her get back her ticket.This is definitely a typical Hiaasen book.
(JoLayne actually wants to use the money to buy a local wilderness area and keep it for its resident wild creatures.) A newspaper reporter, Tom Krome, gets on the story, and so, unfortunately, do Bodean Gazzer and his friend Chub, the heart (and only members) of an "anti-gummint," white-supremacist, Bud-guzzling militia.
This unsavory pair also won on the split ticket with JoLayne; but figuring that she, being black, doesn't deserve her half, they take it off her.
JoLayne's efforts, with Tom's help, to get the ticket back are the heart of the story.
What follows is a romp involving Hooters chicks, Jesus-shaped oil stains on highways, misadventures with the wildlife of the Florida Keys and shady real estate deals.I spent a decade living in Florida.
I spent most of that time operating businesses such as telemarketing companies and private armed security.
This provided me with above-average exposure to Florida's special breed of whacko.Most who read Lucky You might find it rather a tall tale.
I knew people just like all of the people in Lucky You. Like most Carl Hiaasen novels I've read, he does an amazing job of capturing the time and place...
I have never read Hiaasen before.
His way of telling a story leaves much to fate and even more to chance, but it is wonderful to see him slowly thread the strings of his seemingly disorganized world into one amazingly strange tapestry.
Hiaasen transports you into the minds of his characters, and despite their sometimes odious and malicious thought and deeds, you cannot help but feel connected to them in some way.
One has to wonder how an author was able to do research to put himself in the minds of so many people of such varying views on the world.
JoLayne Lucks, just won the Florida lottery.
Now she has just got to hang on to the ticket long enough to claim the winnings.
Chub and Bode has won the same lottery and set off on a madcap adventure with plenty of beer filled episodes to ensure that they are the only ones to claim the ticket.
Tom our erst-while reporter has his own problems, he has agreed to help Jolayne, but he also has an exwife that refuses to be served divorce papers and an ex-lover's husband that is determined that he should pay the ultimate price for being the better lover.
A very funny novel that starts out with two winners of a $27 million dollar lottery.
One of the winners is a veterinarian’s assistant in a small town in southern Florida and the other is a paranoid militia wanna-be criminal who thinks splitting the jackpot would be ridiculous.
He sets out to steal the other lottery ticket with the only other member of his militia.
Mix in a Hooter's waitress, a convenience store clerk, and all the residents of a very strange town where miracles are made to happen.
Even when you think the story has to be over, there are more laughs at the strange and ridiculous.
