https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12197.The_Rescue
The rest of the book deals with those plans and the way the people of the yacht (especially Mrs. Travers, the owner's wife) affect the destinies of Lingard, his crew, the friends he is on the way to meet and the plans they had made.
And I was annoyed at other times by Conrad's way here of stopping the action at a dramatic point at the end of one section, then beginning the next section with Lingard remembering what had happened.
That broke up the flow of the story for me, but at least the next time I read the book I will be prepared.
I'm just knocking off the last few I have left ('The Rover', 'An Outcast of the Islands') and discovering in Conrad a writing style I didn't believe he had any inclination or facility for.'Rescue' is a slow, dense, read; but its immediately noticeable that Conrad here has not skimped or made things convenient for himself --as he can often be fairly accused of doing--by writing only the content which he is master of and comfortable with.
Its nearly the same exciting set-up as 'HoD' but instead of going off into speculative inquiries on mankind's fate; Conrad's 'Rescue' has all its characters confronting each other directly.
It is the last novel in which Captain Lingard appears, but is the first in time.
Lingard is called upon to rescue the yacht “Hermit” from a sandbank, along with all of its passengers, but it is not so simple.
Aiding the freeing of the “Hermit” from her stranded condition upsets Lingard’s former plans for his voyage and gets him involved in a lot of local politics that will thrust him and his crew into danger.
Added to these two plot elements, Lingard becomes intranced by the wife of one of the yacht passengers, Mrs. Edith Travers.
The key relationship is between her and Lingard, but there’s also D’Alcacer, who is supposedly also in love with her; if this were really a Henry James novel, D’Alcacer would probably be one of those cold-blooded protagonist-narrators, but by separating him from the actual narrative in ‘The Rescue’, Conrad is able to set up this Jamesian perspective as a slightly different thing to the structure of his novel as a whole.The book also notable for its depiction of a foreign civilisation; unlikes those aforementioned early novels, there’s little sense here of the Malaysians as an ‘other’ who only serve to respect the unknowable aspects of their white masters.
' "Am I a fat white man?" snapped the serang. "I was a man of the sea before you were born, O Sali! The order is to keep silence and mind the rudder, lest evil befall the ship." 'Enjoyed this read. Conrad knows how to describe a sea calm better than anyone else.
Except for Heart of Darkness, which any instructor in Intro to Lit gets to know a lot better than one ever wanted to, I'd not read any Conrad in decades.
Lucienne in Nicholas Freeling's Gun before Butter drew me to this under-appreciated novel - Conrad's hero Captain Lingard was her masculine ideal & I wanted to find out if he was worthy & indeed he is.
But the character who really haunts me is not Lingard, but old Captain Jorgenson, late master of the barque Wild Rose - which like Jorgenson himself is a burnt out wreck.
The best of the Lingard trilogy (for me). With the exception of the end, which somehow lacks the power of much of the rest of the book, a tour de force. I love the descriptions of the landscape, the light, the sea ... Some good characters: Jorgensen, Lingard, Mr. Travers, ...
My introduction to Conrad after overdosing on Thomas Hardy. Compelling, pellucid and emotionally powerful.
Exotic to western readers, the locale renders even more special the romance between a freelance sea captain of a small boat and a British woman traveling with her husband on a yacht that has gone aground on a sandbar off one of the many islands.
The major characters, perhaps six or seven, rotate through omniscient authorial treatments of their natures and feelings, immersing the reader.
Conrad's understanding of human nature make these haunted characters -- and by no means only the Europeans -- find their commonality with you or with people you have known.Conrad had started The Rescue in 1898, when he was 41, but put it aside as too much of a challenge for his skills at the time.
All of the Malays represent romantic stock figures, and are less well-defined.The story concerns Captain Tom Lingard, a supporting character in two earlier novels, now taking centre stage.
Lingard’s confidence in his own abilities is soon put to the test when a small ship is stranded close to the area where Lingard has been seeking support from the natives.The ship is owned by the odious businessman, Travers, who is caught with his bored and scornful wife, Edith, and their acquaintance, D’Alsacer.
That the clothes are those that Lingard had laid aside for Immada also reinforces the sense of Edith interfering in a situation and taking their rightful place.The Rescue is the third book in a trilogy-in-reverse.
I remember liking Conrad a lot in high school, and I still enjoy the intense dialogues that elaborate the themes of a thoroughly gripping adventure story. But everything is melodramatic and absolute--from the opening description of the sea down to the smallest twitch of a character's arm--and that can get a little tiring to read.
This had a strong naval feel to it as most of Conrad's novels do, but I had a brighter, more enjoyable time while reading this, too. It was not as dark as his other texts, and it was nice to be in the shoes of a sea captain. Still, as part of a trilogy, it carries the same undertones as its predecessors, and a must read for those interested in colonialist works.
Not the best of Conrad, slow, verbose, heavy, over egged. Foggy plot, and the main character seems two dimentional. But i love Conrad and can forgive him this one!
However, Conrad lays on the inscrutable doom too thick - I got the point, I just want to know what is happening sometimes!
I never really got why the native chiefs of the island were so interested in the hostages and why the hostages kept going back and forth like passenger pigeons.The book might also suffer from a little too obvious allegory to the First World War - the character Mr. Travers is an obvious allusion to the dolts who started the trench warfare and then washed their hands of it.
his life work of replacing this man back on his throne is abruptly interrupted by the appearance of an English 'yacht' grounded at the mouth of the river where he is mounting his native force to retake the throne/power for his friend.
he relates to the woman on the yacht as a fellow European and is unable to seperate himself from her fate and that of her detested and smug husband.
his life goal is frustrated in rescuing her and her husband from the tribes leaving him to sail away having reneged on his promises and self esteem.
As is usual with Conrad (this is my penultimate novel of his) the beginning is confusing, you start to wonder if you are going to get into this one, and suddenly about a third of the way through you are totally hooked.
It is tremendously detailed in both descriptions of what happens and of what the characters are thinking.
The 'minor' characters are drawn with as much care as the major, with the truly appalling Travers and the faithful Jaffir.
I can't recommend it highly enough - I have one more full novel to read, and then I'm going to go back to Almayer's Folly and just read them All Over Again.
I mean... it's Conrad. If you like Conrad, you'll like this. I don't like Conrad, but wanted to give him another shot. Ultimately, though, this is "Heart of Darkness" with Asians instead of Africans, from the disturbing racial slurs to the jungle setting to the pervading "darkness" to the "noble savages." I will give Conrad credit for being a masterful writer, however. If you disregard the plot, the writing itself is gorgeous. Conrad was clearly a master craftsman when it came to writing in English.
Not too much to add beyond what others have said. Portions of the first part of the book are very fine. The second half is tough going. My favorite quotes is "the world is too prudent to be sincere."
Beautiful. Poignant, understated, painful. Like life.
one of the most long-winded works i have ever read. some great passages, sure, but mostly this was "slower than whale shit", even for conrad.
Aaah, the overwrought Victorians. This would make a good opera, much seething undisclosed passion in an exotic locale.
