https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/110018.Run_with_the_Horsemen
This trilogy is underrated.
The first book is as a good a rumination on adolescent male sexuality as Roth's "Portnoy's Complaint," and also examines race relations and generational distance in the agrarian early-20th century South.
The second find Porter disillusioned with life and medical school, as well as losing his virginity to the unforgettable Vashti.
Admittedly, the final chapter in this trilogy isn't up to par with the first two--it's a bit far-fetched and tries to make too many connections--but it's still damn good.
Overall, this trilogy is story-telling at its best.
These books consumed my life.
Ferrol Sams uses such beautiful language to describe Georgia between Reconstruction and WWII, the relationships between the landowners and their dependents and the virtures of being Raised Right.I found it fascinating that we do not find out our protagonist's name until page 65, before then he is "the boy".
These descriptors are used heavily throughout the beginning of the book as Sams builds his world and introduces us to the quirks of personality of the individuals who inhabit it.
they are introduced to us by their actions and history before we ever learn their names.I'm looking forward to reading the next two books again,as there are certain things I think I remember and I'm hoping the boy is as clever as he was.
One of my favorite books, I've re-read this so many times I've lost count!
By the author of Forrest Gump, Run With The Horsemen is the coming-of-age story of "Little Porter" Osbourne, the son of a Georgia farming family growing up during the Depression.
The author doesn't sugar-coat the state of race relations during that era, but deals with the issue as simply another fact of life for those times.
Highly recommended reading!
Since I have moved to Georgia, I have been wanting to read a book that submerses me in the southern culture to help me acclamate. This book was given to me by a friend who grew up in the deep south that thought it would do the trick. It reminded me of A TREE GROWS IN BROOKLYN--but about a boy, set in the deep south, and not as tragic. I fell in love with this protagonist, the hired "colored-folk" that worked his pa's farms, and his flawed family. It was a delight of a book. So glad I read it.
When I discovered Ferrol Sams', Run with the Horsemen, I could not understand why it had not been hailed as one of the best American novels of our time. It captures with brutal accuracy the Deep South at the onset of the Great Depression. It reveals the reality of the times and would be what one would see had he a time machine to travel back to these days. Porter Osborne, intelligent, humorous, and perceptive, yet, naïve, is the bridge between the cultures. I thoroughly enjoyed this book
Now THIS is how a coming-of-age story should be written.
Alongside To Kill a Mockingbird, which is the best of the best, I think that Run With the Horsemen comes in a close second, with two differences being that it is the boy's story without having a heroic father as counterpoint (although his father is certainly central to the plot), and it was a bit raunchier in the telling.
The writing is wonderful, so descriptive, so funny at times, so interesting regarding life on a Georgia farm during the Depression.
This was classic writing at its best.
The boy is endearing, precocious, funny, and at the same time forever trying to measure up to his father's expectations. A must-read series if you love Southern coming-of-age. Incidentally, I have attended a couple of book-signings by Ferrol Sams, and the man is amazing. He's not a quick scribbler, but actually spends a half-minute or so talking to each reader, then...BAM! writes a perfect line or two in your book, like he's known you forever. Snap!
But there is one fascinating aspect of the story the author uses to great effect.
By the end of the story Porter Osborne Jr. is a mountain of a man.
When the reader learns that this mountain of a man stands no more than four feet ten inches tall and weighs a mere ninety pounds, it illuminates the wisdom shared by two different characters in the book (one at the beginning and the other at the end): "It's not the dog in the fight, it's the fight in the dog." With Run with the Horsemen" author Farrell Sams has contributed a solid book to the shelf of Southern Literature.
This is an great book on its own but I have just finished rereading "To Kill a Mockingbird" and I was interested in comparing the two books.
He is a heavey-drinking, violent man redeemed mostly by his uncompromising sense of justice.Run with the Horsemen's protagonist is a teenage boy and much of the book deals with his becoming a man, learning about sex and understanding his father.To Kill a Mockingbird is far more inspiring but Run with the Horsemen stands up well beside it.Added much later: I have been thinking about rereading this book but find there is no 'e-book' version.
This book is set in the south in the same era as “To Kill a Mockingbird” and is both funny and poignant as it explores the relationship between the races through the eyes of the protagonist, Porter Osborne III, a bright, sensitive boy growing up on a farm in Georgia. It follows him from childhood to WWII, when he graduates from high school. The book is based on the author’s own boyhood in Fayette County. He published the book, his first, in 1982 at age 60.
I found this slow-going at first, and found difficulty in knowing who was the central character, and would have given it 2 stars. By a third of the way through I was involved with the main character and his dilemmas and life, it was making 3 stars. By the end of the book I was thoroughly convinced and found the conclusion strong and thought-provoking, and a 5-star finish. I shall read more by Ferrol Sams in the future and appreciate Donette's recommendation.
One of my all-time favorite books...Southern storytelling at its best.This is the first in a semi-autobiographical trilogy that follows the life and exploits of the main character, Porter Osborne jr. (Sambo). Also don't miss. 2) The Whisper of the River3) When All the World Was Young
I might be a bit prejudiced because I know Dr. Sams personally but I thought this book was wonderful!
I just love this whole trilogy-- I love watching the main character grow up and figure out life.
The characters are very life like and, as it is with most books, the reader gets lost in the story and forgets that the characters, ocurrences and places in the book are fictional!
Written in a light-hearted manor that makes even the most serious of situations funnny, this book tackles issues such as pride and poverty in the Great Deppression is a way that keeps the reader interested to the final pages!
I would reccomend this book to anyone who enjoys historical fiction books that are well written with challenging vocabulary entwined into every page.
Run with the Horsemen is a must read for any Southerner or anyone who has enjoyed To Kill a Mockingbird. One experiences of life in rural Georgia during the Great Depression and sees it from the eyes of a young boy.I enjoyed every page and was sorry to come to its end. Ferrol Sams created a book that will likely be one of my all time favorites.
This series is a must read for everyone who grew up in the South, moves to the South, loves a person from the South, or just needs to know what it means to be "Raised Right.Turns out I met all the criteria save the first.
I fell in love with the stories, the moods, the lessons, and what makes all of the above more precious than is seemed before.This book is the hook of the trilogy - it's impossible not to love the story of the boy growing toward manhood.
One of the most underrated coming-of-age stories ever. This autobiographical trilogy, beginning with Run with the Horsemen, chronicles the life of Porter Osborne from his childhood in rural Georgia through medical school at Emory during World War II. Run with the Horsemen, the first book, chronicles Porter's childhood on the Georgia farm. It is a can't miss read. Porter is a latter-day Tom Sawyer, and his adventures are just as good. I know that's heresy, but there it is.
This glimpse at rural America will have you in stitches. I suspect the story is thematically biographical but there's no way to know. Sams' description of a young boy's daily adventure makes one long for the days of youth. Sams' posseses possibly the best vocabularly of any author I've read. And his creative use of seldom used adjectives is a real treat for the mind.
Ferrol Sams, where have you been all of my life? Run With the Horsemen vivaciously brought to life the daily happenings of a small southern town during the 1920s and 1930s. Accessibly-written, nuanced, scathing, scandalous, and hilarious. Rarely has reading a novel been such a pure delight.
Amazing writing.
Love everything written by Ferrol Sams. This is the first of three about Porter Osborne, Jr. and his coming of age in the South during the Depression.
One of my top ten all time favorites.
Southern fiction at its finest.
I didn't want this book to end
Ferrol Sams was a gifted story-teller. His thinly disguised autobiography is rich with humor and pathos. He accurately captures life in early 20th century rural Georgia with the eye of a keen observer. A delight to read!
The strength of this book is the author's treatment of the relationship between father and son.
The reason I'm giving the book 3 stars is because I didn't like how much of it was written with the characters identified by such impersonal tags, as the boy, the father, the grandfather, etc.
I didn't like how the dialog was written for the white characters, versus their black counterparts.
Finally, the novel took too much time to lay out the ground work for the relationship between the boy and his father, and I struggled through the first 80 or so pages.
3.5*** This is a semi-autobiographical novel detailing the coming of age of a young boy – the scion of a well-to-do cotton farmer in rural George, during the Depression.
The Boy is the only son of a refined and long-suffering mother and an alcoholic, politically connected father.
The book covers his story from early childhood through high school.
I had a hard time connecting to the boy and his circumstances.
However, about 1/3 of the way through the book I grew to really enjoy the story of his journey to young adulthood.
This was an interesting book about a boy in the rural South between WWI and WWII.
The main character tried really hard to do well in school and overcome the fact that he was one of the smallest students in the entire school.
The author, almost throughout, referred to the main character as 'the boy'.
The author, perhaps in consideration of the age of 'the boy', had many passages about copulation, early adolescent exploration, and whether or not various characters had reached puberty.
That, plus having to wade through the colloquial speech of the African Americans, made this an onerous book to read.
Dr Sams doesn't claim the story is autobiographical, but the main character is a boy nicknamed 'Sambo' who was small for his age, one of the smartest kids in school, wants to be a doctor, and struggles internally with being a good Baptist and being quite a prankster.
And you can imagine a boy whose last name is Sams MIGHT have the nickname 'Sambo'..an unusual name for a white kid in the deep south (as a character, Boston Harbor Jone,s points out to him in college - Dr Sams' second book.
