https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13503109-this-is-how-you-lose-her
He screws around on women, and when he is caught and discarded there is great chest thumping and hair tearing and he learns...nothing.Mr. Diaz provides imagery fireworks -- great use of language, flying sentences, created a real louse of a character (Yunior) who keeps you reading because, well it's like watching a bad driver wreck his same car in the same way 5 or six times.My big problem with this book is that is left me unmoved and oddly unfeeling, considering the subject matter.
Took me a while to figure it out.There is not one fully drawn women character in any of these stories.
You gave me flat characters powered by preoccupations with sex and body parts, especially bushy hair, peppered the prose with Spanish words that were often slangy or derogatory, and allowed superficial, albeit energetic, descriptions of shallow thoughtlessness to masquerade as gritty literary style.I am puzzled as to why I feel so far off the general opinion of the literary pundits who widely praise this book.
I do wonder if it is because of my utter lack of exposure to any Spanish or Hispanic culture.
Perhaps I lack the cultural tools to appreciate it.Nonetheless, I didn't like it.
This is exactly how you lose me.I usually like to start my reviews (rants) with a quote, since this involved words such as bitches, n****rs, sluts, in almost every single sentence, i think i'll just skip that part.
Mind you, i read HP and Goblet of Fire in less than two days, so this looked like a piece of cake to me.
I couldn't read a single page without making that face...
All i know is, i despised the main character and hated almost every women he dated.
Particularly, someone like this guy.
In 1997 he walloped the literary landscape and established his name as a meteoric presence with Drown, a collection of gritty stories centering on Dominican American immigrants and culture.
Not until a decade later did he finish his next work, the acclaimed novel The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao, which recounts in ecstatic prose the tragedies that befall a first generation Dominican American family.
With this collection of stories, Diaz continues to explore his trademark themes of hardship, loss, failure, and resilience in the lives of Dominican American characters.
He is a genius of language, most notably with the peerless voice of Yunior.
However, this maternal bond is now being threatened by each irrational decision of Rafa`s while in the throes of the Big C; namely his choice to date, Pura, an opportunistic Dominican mother of two young children desperately seeking citizenship in America.In the end it really doesn’t matter what type of book Diaz decided to write as the follow up to The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao. And despite the fact that This Is How...
Junot Diaz brings back Yunior from The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao as the narrator for most of the stories but leaves out the Dominican history and the geek references.
You know, the stuff that makes life worth living.Taken as a whole, these powerful stories give us a history for Yunior as he grows up in Jersey as a Dominican immigrant dealing with his family and his tendency to cheat on the women in his life until one betrayal too many sends him into a downward spiral that seemingly lasts for years.The odd thing here is that I never felt that depressed or sad while reading.
At the heart of these stories is the irrepressible, irresistible Yunior, a young hardhead whose longing for love is equaled only by his recklessness--and by the extraordinary women he loves and loses: artistic Alma; the aging Miss Lora; Magdalena, who thinks all Dominican men are cheaters; and the love of his life, whose heartbreak ultimately becomes his own.“And that’s when I know it’s over.
As soon as you start thinking about the beginning, it’s the end.”This being my first read by Junot Diaz, I was in for a pleasant surprise regarding the writing and the tempo of each tale.
He was reading excerpts from the first three of the short stories in this book (The Sun, The Moon, The Stars; Nilda and Alma).
Why I love this book is that Diaz incorporates so many different style of language in it.
The way he organizes it is witty and very timely; I burst out laughing more than once while reading the stories.Why I admire Diaz so much as an author is his need to challenge simplistic knowledge in his books.
He says he's obsessed (his word choice) with patriarchy and by how masculinity interacts in society.
Or this story that just happened last week at school---or how their heart is broken.
It's a close-up look at Dominican life in New York, and some of the stories were heart-wrenching.
No. Sexual content and language make this a very gritty story--I found it to be compelling and eye-opening, but it's not for your conservative book club.
Take a peek at it if you want some crafty, real writing that makes you say, How did Diaz make me feel like I was in the room with him?
Can I write characters that real?
It reads extremely fast, goes down like alcopop, but you know it’s meticulous.
I found a quote from Diaz:The question was always, for someone like me: What is the role of a male artist in the feminist struggle?
In fact the focus is so close that everything else is very hazy; in the stories about the grown up Yunior, it’s only mentioned in passing that he’s an academic; he seems to transform from ghetto boy to professor without any intervening stages, like Clark Kent nipping into the phone box.
a.k.a The Various Sexcapades of Yunior and Other Dominican Men.I can praise this.
Yunior, so funny and eloquent in Oscar Wao, is only amusing at best here.
From start to end, it's just an unemotional, cold, and distant narration of who he fucked and who he cheated on and what he did to win them back - only to lapse back into the habit like gamblers and alcoholics.There might be something profound here, about life and loss and all the other rot, but I'm afraid the message was not received.
The one message that the book tried to hand me was completely redundant.
The mark of a great author is the characters he crafts, and Diaz is a writer who blows the best of them out of the water on that count.Diaz has an amazing ability to evoke emotion like few others can - you pull for Yunior and his boys.
You want to hug Yunior's girls, tell them you've been there, hold their hands, tell them that even the smartest women can be easily fooled by a charming man.
I never got around to reading Oscar Wao mostly because I never got around to it and a little because I was concerned that I simply wouldn't be able to relate to a story about a nerdy teenage boy living in what Diaz himself describes as the ghetto.
Many stories involve Yunior, who also appeared in Diaz's previous works, but some focus on new characters as well.
Those latter stories falter a little bit for me, but that's mostly because Yunior's felt so much like Diaz opening his veins and pouring his blood out onto the pages.
The protagonist of the book is not a very easy guy to like.
And this book is a snapshot of times he spent with different women.
I read it all in one sitting because, strangely I felt attached to the guy right from page one.
But I think all he needed was love.
The writing is rich in certain places but so subtle in others that as a reader you can't not think about it after you have finished the book.
I can only wish every book I come across is like that.
I loved the protagonist's character.
My friends sometimes ask me why I don’t read more contemporary fiction, and my reaction to this book is a good illustration of the reason.
Díaz’s prose is punchy and energetic; but its energy reminds me of how CGI is abused in contemporary films—an added dose of color and dazzle that attempts to make up for a lack of substance.
I admit that the struggles of a young man to stop making obviously bad decisions that hurt people did not strike a chord in me.
Women are just fucktoys.
Men are not loyal, never will be loyal, and women shouldn't expect them to be.
There's no such thing as a loyal husband or boyfriend.Women have no personalities or character traits.
There is no good in the world, it's a never-ending cesspool of misery.
The never-ending misogyny and the unrelenting stupidity (as in “inability to learn anything”, not book smarts) of the main character were annoying and didn't make for any kind of good storyline or plot.
If you could even claim this book has a storyline or plot, which I find doubtful.
The Dominican background and stories color this book all the more for the better, as usual, and give it that "glitter" that Junot knows how to lace through with some awesome prose.
"Flaca" is the story of Yunior dating a "whitegirl" that he knows he will never love.
Yunior has cheated on his fiancé and regrets it deeply after she dumps him and the story follows him through the years of trying to put his life back together, of feeling like he is never going to find someone better, and in true Junot fashion, there is a melancholic enlightenment that the protagonist experiences.
Че онзи Юниор, който разби сърцето на Лола, е литературното алтер его на самия Джуно Диас и се появява и в трите му книги, сякаш за да придаде допълнителна документалност на разказа.
„Ето така я губиш“ е книга за личните рани, семейните травми и обществените язви – тя разказва какво е да разбиваш сърцето си отново и отново, да бъдеш брат, баща и син, да си тъмнокож в Бостън.
За книга, фокусирана върху края, „Ето така я губиш“ отделя много внимание на началата.понякога начало е всичко, което получаваме
He never has a “that was a great day of writing” moment, and he says that it is just part of the process of creating something good.Díaz comes at the writing process as a reader first.
By beginning to write for READERS, Díaz found his voice.
Díaz chose to read the short story “The Cheater’s Guide to Love,” and I felt like I just had to read This is How You Lose Her.I hate short stories.
I loved Yunior because he was a character that looked like you or me: Human, flawed, and brutally real.
Отново не си изневерил на себе си, бил си верен на всичко, което познаваш - само на половинката не и пак си прецакал нещата.Освен че внушава съпричастност, а може би просто излага фактите каквито са, Джуно Диас оцветява разказите си и с грозната страна на живота на цветнокожите - расизма, неприемането, културните различия, в които се изгубваш и в един момент се оказва, че май не си съвсем нито доминиканец, нито американец, а това няма как да ти е от полза, когато преживяваш поредната семейна криза и раздяла.
I hate to filter my response to book based upon others' responses to a book, but after a National Book Award nomination, a Guggenheim, and the almost unseemly vocal adoration of seemingly every major reviewer, one comes to a book with certain expectations.
Is it the Star Trek metaphors that the characters use to give shape to their emotions?
Is it just that Diaz (who, yes, is a fantastic writer of sentences, however slight their freight) has a corner on this particular slice of the market?
Here's hoping that Diaz's characters, led by Yunior, will be given the chance to grow up.
You’ve got a fun, energetic style, and we don’t know any other Dominican writers, so you can keep writing about sucios and morenos and we’ll keep applauding because it’ll seem culturally insensitive to say that, after three books largely focused on your thinly-veiled alter ego, Yunior, it’s time you tried something new.In his previous two works, “Drown” and the Pulitzer-winning “The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao,” Yunior was a dorky outcast more likely to read Lovecraft than find love, which helped to defuse the inherent sexism of his machismo-infused raps.
I don't know what to say...What did I just read?
Why did I read this book?
What was the point of all this?
Was there a message I missed?
Diaz might be a good writer but his choice of words, his storyline, his endless catalog of tits and ass, it just gives me goosebumps, and no matter how much I read, I don't see any consolation for the flat-out misogyny.
Maybe I missed the message, maybe there was NO message and I just misunderstood, but whatever the reason, I absolutely loathed this book.
This slim volume of nine short stories, about the battlefield of love.
Being with one you don't want.
Yearning for the one you want.
Several of the stories feature Yunior, a young Dominican man--sometimes boy--struggling to live up to male culture while at the same time trying to find what's true to himself--while his brother Rafa is a pure heat-seeking missile of sex.
Rafa's death hangs over several of the stories.
The unflinching view of the male experience, the immigrant experience, the Latino experience, opinions--correct or not--the less correct usually delivered in Dominican scented Spanish - fly like fur and as with all great writing, Junot Diaz wins it on the sentences, one surprising, perfect laugh out loud brilliant choice after another.
“And that's when I know it's over. As soon as you start thinking about the beginning, it's the end.”
Twelve pages in and this amazing line, "She's sensitive, too. Takes to hurt the way water takes to paper." I'm so excited about how much I'm going to love this book.
Fuck you for reducing it to the word cheating.
And you killed it when its back was turned.”Fuck Yeah.Yet you continue to read these stories of Yunior and his exploits and his constant yearning for that one true love.
It’s not hard to ignore when he gets all “I want to do with you what spring does with the cherry trees.” on you, and you know that you are being judgmental and that you should be Freetobeyouandme about it but you feel betrayed.
But now, now you watch the demise, physical, emotional, psychological and you want to say it’s okay.
I think most of the time I was lost somewhere in translation.The first story is about Yunior on vacation in Santo Domingo with his current girlfriend, Magda.
This chapter ends well.Another story deals with Yunior, his brother Rafa (Rafael)and their mother coming to America.
I think the mother is in serious denial and I found it really sad how she let herself be pushed around and bullied by Rafa.
This, however, does not happen.The stories are well written and the author has an excellent way of fleshing out the characters, in my opinion.Overall, I think I probably would have enjoyed this book more if I understood Spanish.
3.5/5... понякога началото е всичко, което получаваме ...
".. и защото знаеш дълбоко в невярното си сърце, че понякога началото е всичко, което получаваме"Това и още няколко изречения, плюс писането на места ми харесаха, но не ми харесаха нито историите, нито изменчивият стил. Особено дразнещ и маниерен в последната една трета от книгата. Това е книга, в която като цяло нищо не се случва, няма обрати, има меланхолия, тъга, много гето и сдухани латиноси имигранти. Ми не е моето нещо.
