https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/427920.Chicken_Soup_for_the_Teenage_Soul
Being the first one in the trilogy, it was good and very touching. It gave me the felling that I was not alone in feeling the "teenage" feelings I was feeling.
If the soul was ever in need of comfort or soothing (which chicken soup supposedly is) then I feel very sorry for the person who goes straight to this book to find it. Another collection of stories etc from 'real people' about 'life lessons' and 'issues'. There is a very mainstream conservative twinge in these books. You never hear stories of people who stopped believing in God or who are from non Judeo Christian religions, are gay, or who committed crimes in their youth or who dropped out of school and that worked out OK (think Richard Branson).
The name of this book is called Chicken Soup for the Teenage Soul 101 Stories of Life, Love and Learning (Paperback) by Kirberger Kimberly.
An example of a story that in this book would be about a girl who had her heart broken because her boyfriend decided that they best way for them was to end the relationship.
She said that she hated it and that she hated how she saw him so happy with other people and when he was talking or hanging out with other girls she would assume that they went out.
This book was just heartwarming. I read the other books of the chicken soup and the teenage soul when I was a teenager and I stumbled upon this one a year or so ago. I couldn't resist buying it. the book is as good as I remember the others were. these real stories and experiences really inspire me.
"Chicken Soup for the Teenage Soul" was a beautiful compilation of short stories that I think every teenager can relate to, all the time.
I'm almost positive that fifty years from now, if a teenager picked up this book, they'd instantly be able to relate to it.With that said, Chicken Soup wasn't always brilliantly written, but the thought was there.
I wasn't expecting it to be out-of-this-world, because of course, it was written by teenagers for teenagers.
You don't need to be a teenager to appreciate the brilliance of "Chicken Soup".
Chicken Soup for the Teenage Soul is written by Jack Canfield.I really enjoyed reading this book.
It was at my level, meaning it was easy to read.Chicken Soup for the Teenage Soul is pretty much a book for teens.
Chicken Soup for the Teenage Soul is like a guide for life.
It includes many stories that relate to teens.This book includes 101 stories of life as a teenager and how to get through situations.I have made connections thru out each chapter.
If you like to read about realistic fiction, problems and encouragement, I suggest you read this book.
Stephanie JonesShort Stories As a young teenager, I remember reading the first editions of the “Chicken Soup” series.
The “Chicken Soup” books were written to bring comfort (as actual chicken soup does) to different age groups and share the experiences of ordinary people to help readers to see that they are not alone in what they are dealing with.
These books of short stories, along with the Bible, were my instruction manuals on how to survive being a teenager.
“Chicken Soup for the Teenage Soul” took me back to some of the most difficult and confusing times of my life.
Chicken soup is a really good book because it gives you great advise and its a book that will make you happy and sad.
This book really makes you care and feel good or bad for the people in the book.
Some people in this book have storys that may have happened to the person thats reading the book or it might make a person learn a lesson or improve there life.
This storys will make anyone have any kind of feeling and make them care and be happy for all the opertunitys they have and love life more.
This book was pretty goodAt first I wanted to stay within my fantasy book and not move on to a nonfiction.
The Chicken Soup for the Teenage Soul books were given to me by my cousin.
If this wasn't part of the forty book challenge and my cousin never gave it to me, then I would have never picked it up.
I really liked this book 4 stars.
It had plenty of interesting, inspirational, sweet, and sad stories that really touched your heart.
For those who don't want to read a nonfiction book this one is an easy read and engaging.
I instantly denied it due to the fact that I always thought Chicken Soup books were for saps and stay-at-home mothers.
A quote that got me was, "They'll never have to worry about their parents saying 'Don’t take it so seriously, its only puppy love.'"After reading that, I was hooked.
The passage I loved was called I Try to Remember.
I also thought that if every person out there affect by that had a chance to read this, they'd be so touched!
I was scared about how everything was, is, and will always be changing.

This book consists of a variety of true stories about teenagers, by teenagers, or in some cases, by adults writing in about an experience they had as a teenager.
I like how this book was divided into sections such as friendship, relationships, tough stuff, and family.
This book really makes you think about yourself and things you'd like to do in this world.
The variety in this book allows many teenagers to relate and maybe they can learn a few things on how to deal with friendships, relationships, or family stuff.
I would recommend any teenager to read this book.
The problem with the Chicken Soup collection is that after the first one or two, they start to all seem the same. The quotes dispersed between stories/poems/whatever are repeated in nearly every book. Now, as a lover of a good quote, I find myself eager for some variation. Also, with the exception of Chicken Soup For The Pet Lover's Soul, the stories become very similar, it's just basically a hundred different variations of the same book.None of them are bad, but one or two is sufficient.
لمدة سنة كل مارحت المكتبه امر من قدام الكتاب واطنشو حسبتو وصفات لشربة دجاج هههههه بعدين قررت اني اتصفحو واشتريتو بس مو مره عجبني حسيتو مره ما يناسب مجتمعنا..
I love Chicken Soup books and this one didn't disappoint me. There were so many good, funny, and awesome stories. Pick it up and read it all!
The three things that stood out to me the most were the various authors, its styled chapters and last but last least the many morals I learned from the book.
Chicken soup for the soul is 101 different stories of love, life and learning.
Reading this book I learned that anybody any age can tell a story and express their feeling through writing.Achieving dreams, friendship, attitude and perspective, love and life were on a few of the chapter themes in the book.
The chapter was filled with stories from different authors writing about the theme.
I defiantly underestimated how good anthologies are as they are short stories put in a collection, which are usually categorised.
What I have is simply enough and I don’t need to wait for the right moment, because the right moment is now.Something new I learned from this book is:From the story “ My Best Enemy” I learnt that we have to be open mined about our friends and whom we choose to be friends with.
This book contains 101 stories for teenagers about:RelationshipsFriendshipFamilyLove and KindnessLearningTough StuffMaking a DifferenceGoing For ItThe introduction of the book explains that the books can be read straight through or can be used as a guide book, depending on what issue the reader is going through.
I liked this book because the majority of stories and poems are written by teenagers that have dealt with these situations.
A few stories are written by adults that remember what it was like to be a teenager.
Her feelings were honest and raw.I would like to keep this book on hand to help students if I know that they are going through a situation.
This book is about teens that are not living a normal life.
Some of the stories that were involved in the book, are "Death and Spying, Suicide, Eating Disorders” and many more.
In one of the stories, it mentions how teens these days suicide for their problems that they cannot settle.
One thing I learned from the book was that I should appreciate what I have, because I know it’s not going to be with me anymore.
These stories are all really based on true teen lives.
I definitely recommend this book to every teen, so that they can also relate to it, and learn some things out of it too!
The stories were powerful and I felt so many different emotions as I read this book.
Some stories that I really enjoyed were: Losing the "Us", The Gossiper, My New Best Friend, First Love, The Dance, If I Knew, Reaching out to a Stranger, The Champ, The Home Run, The Leader, and I Am Home.
There are stories for every aspect of your life and I thought that was great.
There are pomes, as well as stories and I enjoyed the pomes very much.
This book is a life lesson book.
There a bunch of stories on girls, about their lives.
It deals with romance, friends, school, and much more.
These books are made up of a bunch of short storis that will make you laugh, along with learn.
This book has about 300 pages.
Even if you don't like to read you could just read one 3 page story a night.
These books are so much fun!One of my favorite stories is one were a boy kisses a girl on her teeth.
It was really funny.
But not all of the stories are funny like this.
I can't even begin to describe how much this book helped me when I was 14, at the age when I was going through school problems. It's just stories of other teenagers and how they tackled their problems. It makes you feel less lonely and very inspired by friendship. I would recommend this to any young teenage boy/girl.
And to think I started this in September...Chicken Soup for the Teenage Soul is a collection of short stories ranging from relationships to making a difference that offer wisdom and inspiration from teenagers past and present.
The true stories in this book attest to that.
However, I felt that some of the stories were a bit repetitive (not that they were bad, of course), which lost some of my interest and prompted my short leave away from it.
And a word of caution since this book deals with some sensitive topics (e.g. suicide).
Chicken Soup for the Teenage Soul is comforting, heart-wrenching, and inspiring– all at once.
I loved this book. It contains a great number of truly inspirational stories about ordinary people, just like us, who, just like we aspire, follow their hearts into doing something extraordinary. So, heroic deeds are demystified and all of us are taken to a mental place where we can clearly see ourselves as successful, inspiring, altruists. Furthermore, one 'gets it' through the sequence of simple -everyday-people's stories that such qualities as courage, creativity, greatness, leadership skills are into each and every one of us. We only have to tap into them, for us to rock in our life.
I read this book wayyyyyy back when I was just hitting puberty (over 15 years ago.
All I remember from this book was the emotions it gave me.
My parents ended up buying me a few more Chicken Soup books and they were all amazing.
I’m sure if I reread this book my thoughts would be different.
As an adult there is a large chance I will not relate to these stories like I did before.
I will say that if you are a teen give this book a try.
If you are an adult you might take away something different.
This book made me sad and happy. Thinking about the kids who had to go through this. A lot of these teens wrote about them going through depression almost committing suicide. stories about kids getting bullied and very nice poems.
Name of book: Chicken Soup for the Teenage SoulAuthor: Jack CanfieldPages: 353Genre: non fictionReading Level:Exposition: The book is about different teenage stories and of what some teenagers have gone through.
The good thing about this books is that they help you relate to the story without being afraid of being judge basically you are learning from experience of others.
This is the exposition of the book.Conflict: There are many different stories in the book so I choose the story that has to do of a girl that has gone through so much in her relation with her bf.
This is a book summary from amazon.comThis book, the latest in the hugely popular Chicken Soup for the Soul series, contains stories, poems, and cartoons relating to the specific troubles that traumatize teenagers everywhere.
But Chicken Soup for the Teenage Soul doesn't shy away from the big issues either, with essays on suicide, dying young, and drunk driving.
This book is a great way to get real world, positive advice for troubles that teenagers face every day.What I really admire about this book is the fact that the book is not censored to just the small issues of teenage life.
I just became what we call "a real teenager" (NOT 13) and I thought that maybe this book would help me to navigate this new world of adolescence.
It was split up into sections, such as Family, Love and Relationships, and so on; you know, all of the important things in a teenage life.I thought that the stories were definitely well-thought out and I actually enjoyed reading them for entertainment.
After a time, it did start to seem like they were all variations of the same story but I still enjoyed reading through the whole thing.
I actually read this book a while ago, in intermediate, and used to enjoy the short stories within.
I decided to re-read it because i knew it was good.This book is a compilation of short stories, with subtle morals for the average teenager.
I learnt many things from these short stories.
One moral i read about was respect.
I also learnt many other things like the importance of relationships and love.
She spent so much energy on him, when she knew that their relationship was futile, and once she realised this, she is healing and ultimately, over him.
