https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60403.Love_in_the_Ruins
I seduce myself into thinking I'm actually just a bad Catholic and promise myself that next time I get a chance I will lose myself in the desert, the woods, or anywhere I can see the cold stars and the burning sand and live forever somewhere in between.Reading another Percy novel is like discovering an unopened can of cashews in the cupboard.
The amount of joy and delight I get from reading and laughing at Percy's absurd view of religion, life, love, the modern era, etc., is really only approached by a handful of lightly salted cashews and sex.
Capsule Review: Don't Read Walker Percy.
Ever.Longer Review: If somebody recommends this book (or any other of his books) to you, rest assured that that he will one day soon try to convince you that the Eagles really are rock n' roll.
For example, say your boss, Mr. When-I'm-in-My-Car-I-Rock-Out-to-The Best of Sting, has previously recommended to you a novel written by one Walker Percy (thus alerting you that all of his taste is in his mouth).
Watch him shut up.(And yes, I've posted the exact same review for all the Walker Percy books I've been unfortunate enough to read.
Perhaps Percy's "Ruins" is a metaphor for the decline of our society and for Dr. More's mental illness.
Percy's description of the decay of Southern Coastal society into armed camps divided along racial, idealogical, and political lines is a delicious satire that still seems apropos in 2013, forty years after Love in the Ruins' first publication.
Somehow, despite the expanding decay, both in general society around him, and in his person, Dr. More manages to show me reason to be hopeful about our future, especially about the endurance of love.
This is Walker Percy at his misanthropic, self-hating Catholic best.
The story centers around Thomas More, a self-professed "bad Catholic" who loves women and whiskey a lot more than God or his fellow man.
(He basically could care less for his fellow man, and he'd probably choose his beloved Early Times over women as well).
What makes him appealing is his grasp of the human condition that he is faced with, where people are continually estranged from themselves and their own swirling desires.
So, he invents a device designed to reconcile opposites within the human psyche.Of course, he is no different as he is in love with three women at once.
I slogged through this only making it because of an occasional witty descriptive phrase. The story is about the collapse of a fragmented society. Dr. Tom More has invented a device (a lapsometer) which he believes can cure people from their demons. He has his own demons too. Some will find his writing and the plot clever and brilliantly written. I found both very tedious.
Maybe the strangest book I've ever read.this book is a perverse, pious, and odd angled look at the downfall of the American mind and American society. having just finished it, my head is spun with thoughts of the dislocated and disassociated nature of the prose and themes. I don't know if I should recommend it or bury it in the backyard for fear the children might stumble onto it. you'll have to decide for yourself.
This is a great Catholic novel, and an excellent satire that still holds up. My favorite character: Father Kev Kevin, the ex priest who looks like Pat O'Brien and spends his working days at the Love Clinic sitting at the vaginal console reading Commonweal....if you get why this is funny, or even if you don't, but particularly if you do, read the book.
Walker Percy is a writer I read when I was attending a Jesuit University in the 1980s.
Percy is writing a dystopian novel about a future a few decades after the time of writing from the vantage point of the early 1970s of an America which is extremely polarized left and right and religious life so degraded and intermixed with commercial capitalism and the country falling apart.
However, he was very perceptive the faultlines of his time he envisions metastasizing did, in fact, deliver their poisons to an America on the brink in his novel which does indeed resemble the decaying country of our own time.
This books reads like some dumpster baby of Kierkegaard and Clancy (Yes, Tom Clancy).
The rest is a poorly edited barebones satire of autumn-century America, and as is the case with nearly all satire, difficult to keep engaged, even though it's couched in a thrilleresque mode.
I'm not sure what to make of Walker Percy anymore.
Some paragraphs are gorgeous pinpricks of insight into what we all as modern Americans feel but have never been able to express, and the rest reads like a fifth-tier MFA dropout wrote it.
I guess that Percy attended UNC should absolve him of these follies, but I'm not sure even my love of the Tarheels can save this one.
Hard to justify the time spent writing this review but I can't just give something one star and not explain.
I thought this story was slow and meandered too long without direction.
There was too much introspection, it lacked a feeling of cohesion, and there was too little meaning for everything that was happening (which wasn't much) in the first 150 pages for me to justify spending any more time with it.
I just didn't care and was bored out of my mind.
I had hoped for more since I'd heard great things about Walker Percy's writing, but this was a letdown.
What was probably at one time a revolutionary, subversive and thought-provoking novel is now only a curiosity in the wake of better books by Vonnegut and Robbins and Wilson. I don't think that I will ever understand the tendency of stories from this era (the 1970s) to be so paranoid and winky. Then again, I wasn't alive at the time.This is not to say that Percy is a bad writer, but I've come to expect more from my questionable narrators and post-apocalyptic scenarios.
It just takes place in Louisiana not very far into the future from the novel's publication date of 1970.A doctor named Thomas More works on a new 'lapsometer' that can read and influence the emotional state of the mind to some extent.
So are the people that protested Vietnam and voted for George McGovern, continuing to support "Liberty equality...the pill, atheism, pot, antipollution, sex, abortion, and euthanasia." the latter of which is now legal.
Out of all the Catholic novels I've read this has been the most unique one.
My friend Grieg said that Percy was trying to do what O'Connor did successfully.
I suspect this statement is true.
But behind it is another statement: which genre is more effective in asserting a morality (or better, critiquing a vice): postmodern satire, or modernist-punch-you-in-the-throat literature?
My friend Nathan said he didn't see the point to this novel.
The revolution/apocalypse does a The Hobbit on us and happens off stage.
And the revolution/apocalypse ended up just being a general upset, not the big one.
I went to meet Percy in 1977.
The entire goal of his writing was to show how the historical events of Christian history constituted a "message" which brought life to people who were in the position of "castaways" on a desert island, waiting for a message that could help them in their plight to wash up on the beach...And he did not write didactically, as if to say, "this is the message, here is part one, here is part two, you must believe this point, and this point, and also this other point..."Rather, he described men and women finding the message, right in the middle of their loneliness -- all of us are shipwrecked; that is why we should be kind to one another -- and in finding the message, finding true life.'
This is certainly a strange book.
I read this just after reading Peter Augustine Lawler's Postmodernism Rightly Understood, which cleared up the philosophy behind the book.
My general impression is that in this book Percy is settling into a didactic mode, which I don't mind since I find the theory interesting.
But it could be hard to just drop in if you don't know what Percy means by “angelism,” or what he thinks of Descartes.
Generally, it seems like the actions of Percy's protagonists are incomprehensible apart from some philosophical context, but if you've got that, then the books can be a great deal of fun—and edifying, too.
A quirky, absurdest, medical comedy set against the backdrop of the real-life oddity that is south Louisiana culture . An African American uprising, a sex laboratory (with a "panic" room), college educated hippies living in the swamp, a sniper in the abandoned golf club house, polygamy, Early Times whiskey... ...these are just some of the events and devices that Dr. Tom More encounters during the 3 day period over which the novel takes place. With sharp wit and sound wisdom, Percy explores the futile ways in which people search for healing and redemption in the "Christ-haunted" United States of America.
A couple of years ago I read a lot of Walker Percy and loved his books.
Reading Love in the Ruins - The Adventures of a Bad Catholic at a Time Near the End of the World now shows me again that there are times and conditions that are right or wrong for certain books.
I've marked this book as "Read" though I stopped at 16%.
I didn't quite slot it in my "ugh" sub shelves because, after all, Walker Percy.
But this is not a time for me to read dystopia and cartoonish characters.
Oh, full disclosure, I read the last page too.
I sometimes feel a little abashed to say how much I love this book, because if you're a serious literary person you can *only* like the Moviegoer. But Love in the Ruins is the first book I ever read by Percy, and I thought it was the smartest, funniest, oddest book--all dressed up in this hilarious country-club Southern accent. The world (the late 60s) is divided into Knotheads (conservatives in a delusional rage) and the Leftpapasanes (ineffective, muddied liberals). There's a great line: "The center did not hold. However, the Gross National Product continues to rise." Sounds familiar...
I have no idea what in the world I just read...
At once philosophical study, religious treatise, and apocalyptic fiction, Love in the Ruins extrapolates modern society to its conclusion and envisions a hyperbolic United States on the eve of its own destruction.
With constant wit, undeniable charm, and a pithy grasp of what constitutes the modern United States, Walker Percy lays bare the ills of society and intimates deftly at their solutions.
The result is something that combines the presence of Aldous Huxley' Brave New World with the political insight of David Brin's The Postman and the verisimilitude of the first act of Stephen King's The Stand.I would recommend Love in the Ruins to any fans of cerebral fiction.
Well-written and it kept moving, but the story was too oddball for me and I couldn't enjoy it.
The narrator suggests that they have lost their souls...and I think this is, for the most part, an accurate description.Now imagine that this is from a time period around 1970 and the United States has just undergone a tremendous upheaval, a great deal of the electric grid is not functioning, the population has become so factioned that one has to be careful where one lives and one gathers that the populations has been severely decreased.
Prophetic, insightful, dizzying.
Well, that was different. Quite good actually, but pretty strange. And daring in a way that probably couldn't be published today.
There is an interesting disconnect when you enter the "Tomorrowland" section of the Magic Kingdom in Walt Disney World.
You are seeing a vision of the future, but it is a vision steeped in the culture of the early 1970s, when the park opened.
I had the same disconnect reading Love in the Ruins.
Unlike George Orwell's timeless dystopian novel, 1984, Percy's vision of a dystopian future is firmly rooted in the early 1970s, when he wrote the book.
I enjoyed the book well enough to read it to the end, but wish I had read it a few decades ago, when it would have had more impact on me.
Continuing my personal Great Authors I Vaguely Remember Thinking About Reading, "Love in the Ruins," written in '71, imagines a U.S.A. in which prevalent (and sometimes contradictory) trends run to their illogical extremes -- political association becomes fragmented to the point of neo-tribalism, mainline churches become secularized to the point of banality or fixated to the point of intolerance, and psychological treatment grows increasing manipulative.
Like all technologies, the Lapsometer becomes a means of social and spiritual manipulation, and Dr. More and his device set in play a story that leads the world to the brink of apocalypse.
At the beginning, Percy tells us that the end of America has come, and what is left is a fractious, conceited, egoistic culture.
Hippies have withdrawn "to the swamp." Tom More is somewhere in the middle of it all--a bad Catholic whose only sorrow is his lack of penitence over his wicked ways.Yet More is brilliant and has a gadget that he hopes will one day restore the Western soul to the body once again and restore what was lost.
The adventure follows More over the course of a few days, but meanders through his past as we learn about More and how we are like him.This is a creative novel full of humor, philosophical and religious feeling, and questioning what has brought Western culture so low.
This book disappointed after rereading it from many years prior. I'm a Percy fan, having reading all his novels and many essays, but suddenly this book seems dated. While the structure seems clumsy, Percy still handles the basic questions of who we are are and how we fit in society better than most. A Catholic convert, he has a critical yet sympathetic way of challenging the faith in a way that would make most Christians squirm. In short, he takes on the tough questions and is resolved to not understanding he answers.
My second time through this novel has proven it more worthwhile than I'd first regarded it to be. Thus far, it is the most enjoyable of his novels--a bizarre chronicle of a mid-life crisis that has the humorous contrivance of being set at a time near the end of the world. There are angels and demons, angelism-bestialism, patient-therapists, lordly pilgrims and sovereign exiles that conspire, willingly or unwillingly, to bring Percy's vision of the predicament of twentienth-century western man to light. Saint Thomas More, ora pro nobis.
December 2015 reread. I'm learning to appreciate this book. Dr Thomas More is a drunk with emotional problems. He's also a lost Catholic. "I believe in God and the whole business but I love women best, music and science next, whiskey next, God fourth, and my fellow man hardly at all. "He makes lousy choices and would like to amend his life. But he doesn't want to because sin "is a great pleasure. "And this book is very funny. It's also philosophical/theological.
