https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/985945.Guests_of_the_Nation
This story takes place in the midst of the Irish War of Independence.
The main character is a solider who is part of the Irish side and then there are two prisoners of war from the British side.
Soliders have a "switch button" where they need to switch on their thoughts of humanity and then turn it off.
For example, during a war where the death toll determines the winner of the battle, solider need to know that they must kill as many opposing solider as possible to make sure that their side wins.
That time, their humanity will be turned off and will be overcome with the thoughts of following their duties as a soldier.
Very good collection of short stories about the Irish Revolution. I only read about half of them and will probably read the other half another time. Some stories were more slight than others, but overall they were effective. The title story was flat out excellent. A great anti-war story focusing on humanity over politics. I believe it was the basis for the exposition in the film "The Crying Game." I would revisit this story again.
- Guest of the NationShortstory about the difficult and complex relationship between hostages and their captors. The personal relation formed between them makes it difficult to draw back to a functional belic position, only accomplished through the depersonalization of the individual.
Really good story about the IRA's battle against British control. It's only a short story, so I won't get into too many details to ruin it. But if opposing forces interacting with each other on a non-violent level sounds interesting, I'd recommend reading it.
I remember it today. I had to look up the story on the internet. It has been 34 years since I read it and I still remember the ending - especially the old woman. All of the fight knocked out of her.
Disturbingly well written stories of the Irish Revolution Civil War.
An interesting collection of stories set during the era of the fight for Irish independence. Much human interest,but surprisingly little politics.
Read 2015.
Good short read about the opposing forces during the Irish Revolution Civil war and the unlikely bonds between prisoner and captor... well-written. Some things will change you forever.
WAR! HUH! YEAH!What is it good for? ABSOLUTELY NOTHING!
Only have I read guests of the nation, few months ago I guess in Feb .. not the whole collection .. very interesting,! draws the reader's attention back to the sad truths of wars especially those caused between who were supposed to be brothers and neighbors, Alas! the victims are always the soldiers. while seniors, presidents or people in power are always the ones who play the whole shit incredibly to prove who'd take more souls from whom.."humanity is just another proof of how chaotic this world is".. #Jag
One might expect the rest of the stories are more of the same, but while they all have that distinct tone of tragic regret and loss of innocence, some are quite funny - 'a flippant attitude dominates' the blurb quotes reprovingly, but these are the stories that almost burst with life.
They are wonderfully well written pieces of social realism, firmly, earthily grounded and full of Irish voices, mostly Corkonian, and Irish attitudes and their tiny squabbles and concerns set against the backdrop of a struggle that might not be epic but was certainly bitter and brutal.
How can a solider function as an instrument (for guarding, killing, or other military function) as well as being a normal human being? On the other side of "banality of evil" (which may apply to one of the characters in the story -- Jeremiah Donovan), there is the casualty of being in the path of the war-machine. Simone Weil's essay on war and violence comes to mind as well. This is a simple story with searingly powerful reverberation on a particular human condition, i.e., that of a simple solider's confrontation of being both as an instrument and a human.
An excellent and well written collection by one of my favourite short story writers.
