https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/66474.Godplayer
Did not like this book at all. It was very boring, the main characters were pathetic. There were too many loose ends that never got resolved. Characters came into the picture that didn't do anything of any significance. There was no action throughout the majority of the book. Everything happened in the last 100 pages or so. The only reason I finished it at all is because I can't quit reading a book right in the middle of one otherwise I would have cast it aside. Quite a disappointment coming from such a great author as Robin Cook.
Although this book ended up being fairly predictable, it was suspenseful, and I couldn't put it down.
Cassi and her friend in pathology are looking into a number of mysterious cases that exhibit what they believe is death with no cause.
As they get closer to the cause, Cassi's friend becomes a victim of the mysterious death, and the mysterious killer.
After several murder attempts, which Cassi survives, she goes to the chief surgeon for help with her husband (the killer), who thinks that she is just going crazy, since the attempts on her life made it look like she was trying to commit suicide.
An OK book, but not one of Cook's best.
One of the story lines I thought was a key plot turns out to be unanswered by the end and nearly forgotten.
The final pages hint that there could be a sequel, but to the best of my knowledge, there wasn't one.I didn't feel like I knew enough about any of the characters save the main character, Cassi, and characters would reappear a couple chapters after introduction but I had already forgotten about them.
Glad Robin Cook's writing and stories have improved since this one was written.
Cassi's husband, Thomas, is a superstar of the cardiology ward, and a surgeon of top class - he wants her to stop, as if these deaths have a medical reason, it will bring down the hospital.
Thomas is annoyed that Cassi is associating with a 'known homosexual' like Robert.
Oh, and when Cassi starts to wonder about her husband's sanity, everyone tells her to calm down, stand by her man, etc.
She also constantly thinks things like, "If my husband left me, my life would fall apart!
I actually listened to the unabridged book on tape, and that was the only reason I actually made it all the way through.
I kept hoping it would get better, but the book dragged all the way to the very end.
The female character Cassie constantly got on my nerves with her insecure whining and worrying about whether or not her husband would be upset with her for one thing or another.
The characters were just unbelievable, and by the end of the book I didn't care about any of them.
I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone.
I liked it a lot, Cook is one of my favourite writers in the pure entertainment department. Obviously the medical side of the story looks a bit updated, but the mad scientist is always an engaging character. Cassie, the protagonist, is a little too princess-y for my taste but she turns out ok in the end.
I found this book very hard to put down, and was surprised by the real culprit in the end.
There were dated details, such as a patient smoking in the main character's office and a doctor having to fight his way across a dark apartment to get to the phone when called in the middle of the night, that reminded me of how long ago this book was written, but they didn't detract from the story.
I highly recommend this to people who love murder mysteries, medical fiction, or want a reminder of how much easier it is today to deal with an illness such as diabetes.

This is some of Robin Cook's early writing. It's not as well-developed as later books, but it is still a good, solid mystery. I especially liked reading it because I could see how Mr. Cook's writing evolved and improved over time. It was like seeing a bud before a flower blooms. Oh, and don't read this book if you're in the hospital or are having surgery very soon. You'll think about it at night as you peer into the shadows around your bed. This is the voice of experience talking. :)
Story plods along to an unsatisfactory and blatantly simplistic resolution. Lacking the medical maturity of his other books, this was one of the more frustrating and least thought provoking Robin Cook stories I have read.
It was quite refreshing to read a medical thriller after so long. Robin Cook is as always at his best. I loved the plot, the suspense. Another good book by Robin Cook.
I agree not one of Cook's best, just okay. I think some parts of the book drag and didn't have anything to do with the plot.
Excelente. Atrapante desde el principio hasta el final, y super ágil de leer.Recomendadísimo al 100%
1984 tarihli Koğuş, maalesef bildiğimiz gibi.
Ben gibi daha önce birkaç Robin Cook romanı okuduysanız, kolaylıkla olay örgüsünü ve sonunu tahmin edebiliyorsunuz.
Çoğu kitabında olduğu gibi yine bir hastane, hasta yataklarında yaşanan ani ölümler, kısıtlı tıbbi ve maddi kaynakları daha verimli kullanmak adına uygulanan prosedürler, kokuşmuş Amerikan sağlık sistemi, işinde son derece başarılı ama aynı oranda kendini beğenmiş, bencil, sinir bozucu, ego manyağı erkek doktor karakterimiz, onun yanında bu doktora delice bir sevgiyle bağlı, akıllı, alçak gönüllü, sağduyulu, ezik ama tüm bu ezikliği, pasifliğine rağmen olayı çözecek kadın karakter… Kısaca doktorun kitaplarında onlarca kere tekrarlanan standart şablonunun üzerine oturtulmuş sıradan bir kitap.
Like seriously?
Even though the book's main theme is pretty interesting, the characters are so dumb, that I was seriously angry.
Cassie, the main protagonist, has a strange custom to discuss private things with every single human being.
She has no aim, I do not think that she knows what is marriage, and that things that involve her husband should be first discussed with him and not with her mother-in-law.
But you had to dig for this in the chapters like a mole, because it was covered with a lot of self-pity from main character.
Look, it is not a terrible book. To me, it was just too predictable, a bit self-serving and with strange storytelling style. Also, it felt unnecessarily focused on readers of a gentler sex. But I like that the author used to be (is?) a doctor which makes the medical stuff seem realistic. At least to a reader as uneducated in medicine as I am. And to be fair - dysfunctional relationship between a triangle of husband (Thomas), wife (Cass) and husband's mother (Patricia) was well portrayed.
As always a ten starNo only can he hold the reader he also teaches us about medical procedures we know little about and medication the dangerously casual usage of it by to many out there!I love all his characters he always mixes enough of medicine with a great plot and really makes you wonder about your next trip to the hospital?I always come away from his novels a tiny bit smarter about The risk on any minor operations and going to sleep and maybe not waking up!??
Read in one night. Even though the medical procedures were obviously outdated for 2017, it was a book I couldn't put down. A great medical mystery for any time period.I would recommend this book for anyone who enjoys medical mysteries and surprise endings. Don't discount this thriller if you have read more recent novels by Robin Cook. Once you start reading, you can't put it down!
I'm not even half way through this book and I can already rate it. I'm not sure how Robin Cook managed to get so many books published by writing such terrible stuff as Godplayer. The characters are just awful, so far the plot is going nowhere and the writing is just plain bad.
La verdad es que es muy predecible y ya desde la sinopsis te dice implícito lo que va a pasar..xDLo rescatable de la novela es el dilema moral que se plantea en el hospital.
Though the hospital techniques are out of date the sentiments about patient care are still applicable. The mystery aspect adds to the excitement.
Couldn’t put it downEasy, edge of your seat kinda book. Many real life situations in this book. Robin Cook books never disappoint. Love medical suspense books
A fast paced quick read with a very simplistic plot and characters that lack clarity or interest
This was by far one of the worst books I ever read.
Good writers start out writing some great books, become rich, well known, and then start authoring bad books, figuring their readers will buy them.
This book made no sense at all.
I will give you one of the preposterous scenarios..if you were a psych MD in a hospital and your good friend was a pathologist, and the two of you were investigating unexplained deaths in seemingly healthy surgical patients in that same hospital, would the two of you elect to have your simple surgeries in that same hospital????
BOOK: GodplayerAUTHOR: Robin CookThis novel was a medical thriller classic.
The delicacy of cardiac surgery is also one of great importance that is presented in this novel & how many people each day die of heart related symptoms.
Another idea that presents itself in this book is about the egoism & narcissistic tendencies of excellent surgeons.
Two characters that stand out in this novel are the famous cardiac surgeon Thomas Kingsley & his wife Cassandra (Cassi) Cassidy who is a first year psychiatrist who was earlier into pathology.
In ‘Godplayer’, psychiatry resident Cassi leads a perfect life - she’s gorgeous and married to renowned surgeon Thomas Kingsley.
That’s what Cassi attempts to figure out as her marriage gradually falls apart.The murder mystery was incredibly suspenseful and creepy.
There was a nice pool of suspects – perhaps Cassi was responsible for the murders or it could be Thomas who’s popping pills and obsessed with carrying out as many surgeries as possible.
It was convincing and tied up all the loose ends.Cassi wasn’t exactly my favourite type of character as she was weak and submissive especially when it came to Thomas.

This is one of the earlier books written by Robin Cook.Cassie, a 1st year medical student, marries the ullustrious Dr. Thomas Kingsley.
Cassie has no support from anyone when trying to confront Thomas about this--his mother does not like her, the chief lets Thomas get away with just a quick remark along of the lines, of I am not an addict, just an occassional pill here and there.
Thomas does not like Robert nor the fact that Cassie is somewhat involved in it.
I do like his books and I will continue to read them as I go along.
Every time I read a Robin Cook book I think, "He has really bought into the hype that doctors are better than anyone else." I imagine that if I were to meet him in person he would be the most arrogant of assholes.
There is always at least one character in the book that my imagination tells me is really Robin Cook.
You have to ask your husband whether you can have that operation on your eye to save your eyesight?
Your husband tried to kill you twice, but you're still in love with him?
We'll never know.And yet, I keep reading his books.
When Cassandra Cassidy meets Thomas Kingsley, it's love at first sight for both of them.
Deeply in love, the two gifted doctors are soon married.
As Cassandra's degenerative eye disease forces her to switch from her chosen field to psychiatry she tries to make the best of her situation.Around other people he is wonderful, but as he begins a meteoric rise in the hospital, alone with her, Thomas is hostile and full of rage.
Soon, the fairytale begins to crumble.
Desperate to save her marriage, Cassandra spends more time around the hospital, which is being menaced itself.
