https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80213.Anthills_of_the_Savannah
Lord Acton's Power corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely plus life as intrinsically optimistic, closing with childbirth and the naming of a child suggests a brighter future in which tradition doesn't have to loose out to modernity and that community can survive despite the main action of the novel in which we learn that three friends have since decolonialisation grown apart and power requires them to become enemies. A short little west African novel.
تشنوا آشيبي - كثبان النمل في السافانا رواية لابد أن تُصيب القارئ بالتخمة.. دسمة، صعبة، شائكة مكتوبة بقلم أديب يجيد رسم أفكاره وأحداث روايته بصورة متناسقة، لا تخلو من صعوبة بالتأكيد ليست من الروايات التقليدية ، تختزل الواقع الأفريقي في رواية واحدة .. أفريقيا بعد الإحتلال حيث ينكمش الوضع السياسي ليتحول حكم الدولة والأرض إلى فئة محدودة، وضعت الحجر الأساس لـ دكتاتوريات وجدت بيئة خصبة لها بعد مغادرة الرجل الأبيض..رواية تحكي عن الصراع السياسي والتقلبات المفاجئة في هرم السلطة والعلاقة بين الشعب والزعم
تشنوا آشيبي - كثبان النمل في السافانا
رواية لابد أن تُصيب القارئ بالتخمة..
دسمة، صعبة، شائكة مكتوبة بقلم أديب يجيد رسم أفكاره وأحداث روايته بصورة متناسقة، لا تخلو من صعوبة بالتأكيد ليست من الروايات التقليدية ، تختزل الواقع الأفريقي في رواية واحدة ..
أفريقيا بعد الإحتلال حيث ينكمش الوضع السياسي ليتحول حكم الدولة والأرض إلى فئة محدودة، وضعت الحجر الأساس لـ دكتاتوريات وجدت بيئة خصبة لها بعد مغادرة الرجل الأبيض..رواية تحكي عن الصراع السياسي والتقلبات المفاجئة في هرم السلطة والعلاقة بين الشعب والزعماء ، مع مزيج من الأساطير الافريقية والعلاقات الفردية والعاطفية في المجتمع ذاك..رواية جيدة و نقطة هامة للأنتقال إلى مستوى جديد من الروايات الغنية ذات الطابع الأدبي الخلاب..
Here we see the role of woman in the world, something Ikem could not see or express with words, and what Chris, the man of action, would never have fought for.In the middle of Achebe’s novel there is an extract from David Diop’s poem Africa:“Africa tell me AfricaIs this you this back that is bentThis back that breaks under the weight of humiliationThis back trembling with red scarsAnd saying yes to the whip under the midday sun” (P.134)We are bought full circle, back to the arguments Achebe has been making since Things Fall Apart.
La traduzione italiana del titolo ("Viandanti della storia"), invece, sottolinea il nervo principale di quest'opera facendo riferimento agli eventi che la Storia ed i suoi protagonisti mettono in atto; consci o meno dell'essere portatori di cambiamento.In un'immaginaria nazione chiamata Kangania si dipana la storia di Chris, Beatrice, Ikem ed Elewa.
E poi il noi diventa Io, diventa l’imperiale Noi." Una riflessione sulla questione del potere ma anche la celebrazione di "cerimonie di amore, amicizia, tradimento e morte" La Kangania, dunque, come la Nigeria post-coloniale degli anni '80.
Anthills of the Savannah is set in the fictitious West African country of Kangan, which is marked by social unrest and political intrigue.
The beginning is rough—you are thrown into an unclear situation which, at least for me, rather than generating interest more frequently annoys—and, while the story does become better and more interesting as the novel progresses, it still feels rather flat overall.
Not just flat in terms of failing to evoke an emotional response, but some parts also come across as artificial—the bits of social and political criticism which, though fascinating at times, appear to be thrown into the story rather than organically emerging from it.
صاحب أشياء تتداعي الروائي النيجيري الكبير تشينوا أتشيبي أعود إليه في تلك الرواية الدسمة عن سيرة مكررة لحكم الجنرالات فى أفريقيا ، وكيف يتحول الحاكم بمجرد أن ينزع بذته العسكرية من مجرد ظابط طموح ومنفتح الي ديكتاتور يضيق بالجميع حتي الذين ناصروة ووواوصلوه الي الحكم ، يكتب تشينوا اتشيبي عن بذرة التماهي التي تنمو فى عقل الحاكم حتي يصبح هو الوطن ذاته وهو الشعب ذاته وهو القانون والدستور ذاته .رواية عظيمة بلا شك من روائي قدير
Three childhood friends ascend to leadership within their country and the book centers around greed and power lust, showcasing socio-economic issues and governmental corruption in some part of Africa (though the country is fictionalized), as well as what exiles must go through (or rather how hard it is to speak out against a not-so-democratic government and then attempt an escape from your homeland).
Somehow I feel as if I've committed a crime by rating an Achebe book like this--big Chinua Achebe fan.
While I liked the romance shared by Chris and Beatrice ("Sometimes when I thought of her what came most readily to my mind was not roses or music but a good and tastefully produced book, easy on the eye.
I gave this book a low rating because 1) it was a bit of a let down after Things Fall Apart, and 2)it was way over my head.
This book was surprisingly hard to read.
I'm ashamed to say that I need someone to walk me through this book, our high school English teachers used to do.
I felt that I might have been missing some vital clues in the pidgin dialogue that was oftentimes too hard to follow.
It's a book that needs to be re-read and read slowly, methodically.
The reader needs some background information on the cultural and political history of Nigeria during this time (of which I am woefully ignorant).
Painfully boring story of politics in Africa. If it had not been written like a newspaper article, if there had been some effort toward characterization or coherent plot, or explanation of the history of the circumstances described, I still would probably have disliked this book. Much time passed before I could make myself knock off the final 20 pages, not a good sign. Story of friends who become entrenched in politics, end up double-crossing each other and fleeing from the one of them who gained power. Sounds like an interesting premise, but don't be fooled.
From the perspectives of a government Commissioner (Chris), the Editor in Chief of the national newspaper (Ikem) and the woman important to them both (Beatrice), we are shown a crumbling regime from both a humorous and a tragic point of view.The anthills of the title, an image re-used throughout the novel, are manyfold.
Ironically, some of the most profound statements are made by these characters, and the novel is concluded on a question phrased to an English-educated Beatrice from Ikem's girlfriend in this dialect.In a way, it causes the reader to question the truly important characters in the novel.
Another fantastic book by Chinua Achebe.
The novel details the events leading up to a military coup from the perspective of the president's (dictator's) inner circle of college friends.
This is a fantastic read that picks up after the first 40 pages or so.
As people who live in the U.S. we have a unique sense of political stability that we often take for granted, and this novel is a portrait of the many times of violence that regularly mark political change in so many countries across the world.
Stick with this one - it's definitely worth the read.
One thing I like about this novel is Achebe's use of creole forms. It's probably the first novel I read with extensive use of "non-standard" English, and I remember finding it a little difficult at first. I also found it intriguing, though, and that interest persists. Standards in language are overrated.
I managed to finish it in reasonable time. That speaks to it's ability to keep meengaged. I was, at first, annoyed by the pidgin, but then I started to follow it and ended up enjoying it a little.The 'fictitious' land of Kangan andit's capital city Bassa. The province of Abazon and the anthills found there.Book 1 done and dusted. Kangan, aka Nigeria - for it bears an unmistakable resemblance to that country - I have been to visit you. What country shall follow next? Stay tuned... hahaha#AbookfromeverycountryinAfrica is the challenge. Happy travels fellow travellers!
They are cardboard cutouts of "Romantic Characters" you might find in thousands of other fictional political commentaries.
The rest is a meandering, third-rate political satire that nobody has asked for, and that nobody can learn from.As Ikem screams in the book, "writers do not enact change, they cause headaches" (or something along those lines, I can't be assed to find the exact quote), so Achebe screams about a bunch of muddied nothing while pretending he's a whispering, wise sage.
It is almost like you wait for exams to get over and when they are finally over you do not know how to manage the free time since you have been so focused on seeing them through that your head is heavily blocked up with that.Achebe describes this confusion through the lives of three political leaders and through alternation of narration tries to give a wholesome picture.
There appears to be a lot of confusion in the book -not just in the story, but in the writing style also.In the end, it is a political work, and describes the aftermath of colonialism.
I wanted to like this book more than I did.
'Things Fall Apart' is one of my absolute favourite books so I was looking forward to this read.The story is a slow burn.
It took until about 3/4 of the way through the book before any level of tension began to build, although when it did, the story became quite engaging, particularly with regards to Ikem's rabble-rousing.
I didn't dislike this book; it had a lot to reveal about the problems facing post-colonial African societies.
Yet I didn't particularly enjoy most of it either, as I struggled to develop any real interest in the narrative as it unfolded.

I read this translation parallel to the original. I gave the original three stars, therefore I give this one two. The translation was not my style: too 'distant'/formal, the intended reader must be someone completely different from myself.I will be writing a review of this translation for the Dutch platform Stemmen van Afrika; a link will follow.
Great. Achebe does a very good job at describing the internal struggles of an authoritarian regime, but he also develops very attractive and interesting characters while doing so.
Achebe proves yet again that traditional tribal beliefs have a place in African modernity. A tragic, yet beautiful story of the effects of power in postcolonial Africa.
Two and a half stars, rounded down.Anthills of the Savannah takes place in an imaginary West African country called Kangan.
A British trained officer, known as his Excellency, has come into power following a coup d’état.
Achebe describes the chaotic political situation thorough the eyes of three friends: Chris (who is also Commissioner for Information in the government), Beatrice (an official in the Ministry of Finance), and Ikem (newspaper editor critical of the regime).This book bored me big time.
I listened to the book in (African) English, and some parts were obviously written in creole language, which didn’t make it easier to understand.
The two coexist often among the same people.The book was a delight to read if a bit disturbing and Achebe achieves (I love the alliterational possibilities on his name - I was tempted to include the word achingly in between) a sense of accomplishment, though half filled, at the end when the old dictator is liquidated in yet another coup.
Dus gaan Zijne Excellentie en een aantal andere leden van het kabinet en de geheime dienst op zoek naar redenen om de mannen uit de weg te ruimen.
Maar het leven kruipt waar het niet gaan kan...Dit boek stond op de shortlist van de Booker Prize in 1987.
Het beschreven gedrag is helaas maar al te herkenbaar en Achebe's geboorteland Nigeria (waar de Big Chiefs de Big Thieves worden genoemd) is daar echt een akelig precies voorbeeld van.
Anthills of the Savannah presents the establishment and subsequent fall of a tyrannic (yet legal) regime in the fictitious country of Kangan.
Having read Chinua Achebe's Things Fall Apart and Arrow of Gods, I was already aware of his storytelling mastery.
With Anthills of the Savannah I was very curious how storytelling can meet the topic of ruthless politics.
Third, Achebe finds towards the end of the story place for his favorite theme, that of the conflict between the African culture and modernity.
Overall, though at times too sketchy and at others too pedantic, Anthills achieves a difficult goal: presenting "modern" tyranny through a humanist perspective.
The book was published in 1987 and set after 1976, but Nigeria has had a series of military coups overthrowing short-lived civilian governments and each other.The author uses multiple narrators to show both different political viewpoints and the various concerns of the population, although all the chosen narrators are part of the country's elite rather than the general mass of the people.
The characters make political speeches, all within the context of the story; they are well-drawn characters, not merely political mouthpieces for Achebe's own views (although I think Ikem may be a partial self-portrait).
It had a tough act to follow; our first book was the most excellent Green Grass, Running Water.Anthills takes place in a fictional African country, Kangan, after it has gained independence from Britain.
It centres on three figures: Sam, the dictator of Kangan; the newspaper editor guy whose name I can't remember right this second; and Chris, the Minister for Information.
The story chronicles Sam's dictatorship, circumstances that serve as a parallel to Achebe's own country, Nigeria.The plot was an interesting idea, but it was decidedly more of a chore to get through than Green Grass.
The finale is definitely very underwhelming.The book did have some moments of comedy, I think my most favourite quote is one of the quotes about when one of the government ministers was studying in Britain,"During my first year in Britain I saw Welsh Rarebit on the menu one fine day and I rubbed my hands together and my mouth began to water because I thought I was going to eat real bush-meat from the forests of Wales!"I suppose the bits I found most interesting were the ponderings on Marxism by several of the character.
Also, I think I'm not familiar enough with post-colonial Africa for it to make a lot of sense to me.
The parts written in dialiect were really difficult to understand, and I think there is probably a lot of symbolic meaning throughout the book that I missed.
I think if I had studied this in school alongside the history of post-colonial Africa, I would have gotten a lot more out of it.
I don't really want to dismiss it totally, as I think it has more meaning than I could glean from it, but I did not feel that I learned a lot or felt a lot emotionally while reading it.

Set in the fictional West African country of Kangan soon after a military coup, Anthills of the Savannah is Achebe's great literary satire of his own Nigeria.
The novel centres around the lives of 3 friends - Chris,Beatrice and Ikem - who are all, in one form or another, dissident voices under the new military regime.
Eventually the new Sandhurst-trained ruler Sam toppled, and Chris (the government's commissioner for information)is also killed.
Whilst not as famous as Achebe's first novel 'Things Fall Apart', 'Anthills...' may be a more accessible entrypoint for those wishing to understand the work of Nigeria's most famous author.MT
