https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/243396.To_Love_and_Be_Wise
In this 4th book of Josephine Tey’s Inspector Grant series, he is active in it from the beginning.
A young man disappears – or is disappeared – and Scotland Yard has assigned Alan Grant the responsibility of figuring out whether it is by fair means or foul.Once again, I am impressed by the writing and Josephine Tey’s excellent grasp of psychology.
Josephine Tey's life was cut tragically short. If not for this I do believe would be talking about "The Big Five" Golden Age Detective Writers, rather than "The Big Four."I can't comment on Margery Allingham's works as I have only read one, but Tey at her best is definitely superior to Ngaio Marsh - & while Tey has weaker works, so do Sayers & Christie. This particular novel is all kinds of awesome & one of the very few 5★ I have given this year for fiction that isn't a reread.   It
This particular novel is all kinds of awesome & one of the very few 5★ I have given this year for fiction that isn't a reread.
It isn't just that this is a very well constructed mystery - all the characters are well realised.
I am really looking forward to rereading The Daughter of Time which is another mystery from Tey's very creative brain.
I'm hoping it lives up to my memory.I will mention that the edition I read doesn't have Tey's usual racist comments, so I'm assuming it has been cleaned up.In case I haven't been clear, I highly recommend this one.
In my opinion, Josephine Tey is up there with the best British crime novelists of the last century.
Tey was also good with the minor characters, although in this novel it's fair to say that some are more believable than others.Here, Inspector Grant is sent to investigate the disappearance of a very attractive young photographer whose arrival in an English village has had a disturbing impact on a number of the locals.
That's not my favourite style of mystery, but when it's written by Josephine Tey, I'm prepared to forgive a lot.
Leslie is more reserved; the short time he is in the picture presents a vivid image of his personality, but as Alan finds it's not that easy to get a handle on exactly who he was; part of it, though, is a little illumination of what it's like to live inside that spotlight, to be that bird of paradise, inspiring love and hatred and all sorts of other strong emotion simply by virtue of looking as he looks.
Minor characters are, as always, wonderful portraits in miniature; secondary characters – including a deeper acquaintance with Marta Hallard – are, as always, unique and genuine; and Alan Grant, as always, is magnificent.The mystery is, as is typical with Josephine Tey, not really one which is conducive to solution by the armchair detective.
God can this woman write anything worthy of less than five stars?
Her voice can be incredibly hilarious at the most unexpected moments and though the case itself is fairly light throughout (for most of the novel indeed nobody's sure there's even a case at all) it's a wonderful occasion for her to display her knowledge of human nature and she does so beautifully.
The end is incredible - both completely out there and so logical.
I've never read an end that feels both like a tremendous deflation and the greatest stroke of genius ever.
Please do read her if you haven't already.
Tey does things with her apparently simple plots that no one, but no one else can manage. A deliciously sly woman.
To Love and Be Wise - Josephine Tey Edited to add a picture of Calder Alexander Eno the preternaturally enormous cat.
He loves lying on books and devices; probably he can absorb books by osmosis.
He is extremely affectionate and loves to lie on the sofa with me while I read.
But not now, because it is warm and he would like me to get up and feed him.
The Gorey cat looks like him, I think.
I now return you to the book review.
It would do nicely for Cozy Mystery as well.
There isn't much to it, but it is so well-mannered.
It's like knitting, a pleasant past time with many a reader and in fact Tey often referred to her novels as being tantamount to "Yearly Knitting." One might compare this to a comparable story in today's music industry where Taylor Swift who though not exactly shunning the media, steadfastly refuses to discuss her personal life and points her critics and admireres to her singer/songwriter work for the answer to their questions.
It is also one of my favorite book covers because it perfectly illustrates the essence of this mystery novel.And who is Inspector Grant?
Long ago, in what now seems like another lifetime, I read a lot of Josephine Tey's books and admired her clever plots and superb writing.
Soon he was firmly ensconced.He teams up with one of the local celebrities, a writer and radio personality, to write a book about the river that runs through the village.
As Tey told us in that other book of hers, truth is the daughter of time, and sometimes it takes time and distance to be able to see the truth.The mystery is complicated and it is not one that your typical armchair detective - of whom I count myself one - will readily solve, and yet, once the solution is explained by Grant, as we look back over the book, we see that all the clues were there.
Why?I don’t want to say much more about the mystery at the heart of this book, because the resolution made me laugh out loud; I saw it coming only a couple of pages before it became clear, and only because it becomes fairly obvious.In addition to the fiendish story, Tey’s succinct character sketches are peppered with telling details that made me smile; many of the artists in Salcott St. Mary are so wonderfully English that if you’re an Anglophile, I dare you not to appreciate their quirks.
Not as stellar as The Daughter of Time, but thoroughly enjoyable. Well, it took me like three hours to read it all, without pausing except to stop the dog from barking at the coyotes. That should tell you how much I enjoyed it!
The solution is highly ingenious, albeit impossible in real life, (view spoiler)[(a subterfuge couldn't be maintained because humans excrete) (hide spoiler)] but that's almost the least part of the joy of a novel that's deliciously written and intent more on characterization and exploring the nature of love.Inspector Alan Grant (Tey's series hero) meets American photographer Leslie Searle at the launch party for the new novel by romance writer Lavinia Fitch, and is startled by the man's beauty; he's one of those rare people whom others simply cannot help looking at.
Grant's at the party merely to give his actress friend Marta Hallard a good excuse to slip off early; Leslie's there to introduce himself to the author, whose nephew, nationally loved nature broadcaster and in private sad sack Walter Whitmore, was a mutual friend of a now-deceased war photographer.
To Love and Be Wise is the 4th book in the Inspector Grant mystery series by Josephine Tey. If you enjoy Agatha Christie or Ngaio Marsh or Dorothy Sayers, you'll also enjoy this classic writer of mysteries.Inspector Grant is a Scotland Yard inspector who has been assigned to investigate a disappearance of an American.
It turns out that Grant had previously met this American when he was attending a party with his actress acquaintance, Marta Hallard.
I also liked Grant's 'girlfriend', actress Marta Hallard; lovely, intelligent, sensible and someone who Grant is able to bounce his thoughts off.All in all, I enjoyed this story more than I thought I would.
A delightful mystery story with Alan Grant as the debonair detective.
Grant does police work because he likes it.
In this story a young photographer goes missing in the night.
I'm proud that I detected the key to the mystery, even if I didn't get it completely correct.I especially like the part where two policemen recite poetry to each other and then burst out laughing at whether those crazy detective story novelists would ever think of policemen reciting poetry.
Lovely.Incredibly well written.Read for Golden Vintage Mystery Challenge -- Read one book with a professional detective (Grant)Read for Climbing Mt. TBR Challenge
I went into this looking for a light read to suit my mood and came to discover that this classic mystery is still strikingly modern in its central issues of identity and gender.
It has set my brain ticking on how these issues crop up in other of Tey's novels.
Why has no one has written a serious work of criticism about these novels?
Val McDermid wrote an excellent piece several years ago that you can find here: http://www.telegraph.co.uk/books/auth...I want more!
More context, more interpretation, more analysis of themes that appear and reappear in these all too brief and wonderfully twisty books.
3.5 stars. This is one of the slightly odder plots among Tey's mysteries—but, oh, how I do like Inspector Grant. He and Sergeant Williams are getting to be one of my favorite detective duos in fiction. Grant is the observant connoisseur of human nature that's usually found among the amateur detectives, the sidekicks and the chroniclers, yet he's also a highly professional and efficient police inspector, which makes for a fascinating combination. Tey's writing is wonderful too, and her plots always have plenty of twists and tantalizing clues.
It was a wonderful surprise to read this. The characters were all well-drawn, the plot fluid and engaging, and the ending was quite unexpected. What was so refreshing was the absence of ludicrous plot-twists and clichéd characters that one finds in so many of the detective stories written during this so-called 'golden age' of English crime fiction. There was also none of the stifling class rigidities that usually plagued such works. I find Agatha Christie and her ilk quite unreadable now, and one of the main differences is that Josephine Tey is a much more accomplished writer.
All terribly British. Full of eccentrics, a chap who dancers, famous names, life in the country estates, and a disdain for everyone from the US. As with other novels in this series, the characters are from the theatre and there is an American link.In this case a famous American photographer goes missing. Murder, kidnapping, an accident or a practical joke? And the denouement must have created waves at the time with the introduction of transvestism.
Free download at Project Gutenberg AustraliaWith this book, I just finished the Inspector Alan Grant series.5* The Daughter of Time4* The Franchise Affair3* The Singing Sands4* Brat Farrar4* A Schilling for Candles4* The Man in the Queue4* To Love and Be WiseTBR Miss Pym Disposes
(view spoiler)[I do wonder why mystery writers are so fascinated by people who assume another gender purely for the purpose of committing a crime.
I've never encountered this in real life, but I do know a few trans folks and drag queens - who don't really commit a lot of crime, much less plot murders or embezzlement, etc.
(hide spoiler)] Meanwhile, there are lots of beautiful descriptions of the countryside and whatever Marta is feeding Grant and I did get the delightful impression that Tey is not at all fond of children.
Chief Inspector Alan Grant meets American photographer Leslie Searle at a party, and a few weeks later finds himself investigating the man's disappearance in highly suspicious circumstances.
It seems to be a classic “village murder” centering on the big house and the pub, but nobody can find the dead body.I thought I'd read all of Josephine Tey's few books so this one came as a surprise.
I haven't always enjoyed them, but I think this was one of her best.
It's not quite so full of impossible coincidences as some, and the main characters are well drawn.
HCpwlwNftE
Fun read. This is the first one I've read by this author. I look forward to reading more. I appreciated her very wry sense of humor.
I love Josephine Tey, and can't believe I hadn't read this book before.
What an amazingly pleasant surprise, from the first chapter to the last. "I didn't see that coming!"I found it clever, entertaining, and an excellent example of why she was so popular. I think this is my favorite Inspector Grant episode, so far.
She wrote murder mysteries in a style I would describe as English Country House Murder with a touch of Flapper Flair.
In any case, To Love and Be Wise is the 4th in the Alan Grant series and is my favorite so far.
All the elements of the traditional English Country House murder are present, spiced up by the presence of movie stars, artist colonies, and the attendant emotional frailties and jealousies that are present whenever artistes are gathered together.
In a perfect world I would have settled in next to a crackling fire with a glass of red wine and a plate of shortbread cookies and devoured Alan Grant #4 at one sitting.
Josephine Tey felt confident that the fans of her quirky, character-driven novels would be content with NO body if the story line was good.
This is one of her later books (it was published two years before her death) and I think one of her best.The scene is the small village of Salcott St. Mary, where best-selling romance novelist Lavinia Fitch has settled into a huge garish mansion called Trimmings.
It's one of my all-time favorites.Seven of Josephine Tey's eight mysteries (including this one) are compiled in ELIZABETH MACKINTOSH, COLLECTION NOVELS.
One of the pleasures of reading To Love and Be Wise after almost all of the others was recognizing allusions to the prior novels, such as Jerry Lamont, a suspect in The Man in the Queue; Jammy Hopkins, the sensationalist journalist from A Shilling for Candles; and several characters that would get a mention in The Daughter of Time such as Benny Skoll, and novelists Lavinia Fitch and Silas Weekly.Lavinia Fitch actually has a prominent role in this novel, as she plays hostess to American photographer Leslie Searle.
Her Inspector Alan Grant has rather grown on me through the novels.
Josephine Tey continues to be about the only "Golden Age" mystery writer that I care for (although I have begun making inroads on Dorothy L.
Sayers), and To Love and Be Wise continues my admiration of her writing.
And that disappearance of Leslie Searle is truly puzzling-- although Tey plants a vital clue to its solution at the very beginning of the story.More than anything else-- especially with Williams being pulled away to conclude a case in London-- the pace is slow and deliberate, as though Grant is taking a leisurely stroll through the suspect pool and trying the noose on each of them for size.
I've been reading them in order, and her plotting and characterization seem to get better and better, while Tey's terrific prose and wit has made reading all of them a pleasure.
The entire cast of characters was interesting, consisting mainly of artistic types; Tey skewered most of them, especially the writers, making me wonder if she didn't particularly like authors.
Either way, it was fun hearing her send up their works and artistic process; as the old quip goes, "If you can’t say something good about someone, sit right here by me".
