https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/67140.Boredom
Boredom by name, most certainly not by nature, Alberto Moravia has written a fascinating, thought-provoking and often deceptive novel that explores the relations between boredom, sexual obsession and wealth in the social classes of 1950's Rome.
Cecilia is as much an interesting character as Dino, and Moravia portrays a young woman who is a step or two above the poverty line, but not yet middle class, someone who can use money, and have a practical attitude towards the possibilities of sex, and yet also exhibit an absence of envy that would make her situation the more lamentable.
She is in fact a psychic blank with grinding hips, and she is far too much for our analytical protagonist to handle.There is one very telling passage somewhere near the middle of the book where Dino, our protagonist, observes that Cecilia, our hips, suffers from the same boredom as he, but doesn’t know it as she’s never known anything but that boredom, and so she is not tormented as he is tormented.
This is just one of many sticking points that prevent Dino from fully possessing/understanding Ceclia, and the novel is propelled by his attempts to possess/understand her so that he can discard her and disentangle himself and get on with his life of boredom.It’s an excruciating tale, relentless in its coldly analytical momentum, but it’s also humorous in its own way.
للأسف قرأت نسخة مختصرة من الرواية الأصلية السأم لا أعرف كيف تسنى للمترجم أن يقوم بهذه الجريمة الأدبية فيغير شخصيات الرواية إلى أسماء مثل سمير ومجدي وسلوى والأماكن إلى المعادي والدقي والقاهرة لينسف بذلك هوية الرواية ويقضي على روحها .. على الرغم من كل مصائب هذه الترجمة فإن فكرة النص وشخصية بطل الرواية جديرة بالإهتمام أنصح بنسخة دار الآداب أعتقد إنها النسخة الأفضل
It seems a more appropriate title for this book would have been Obsession, as it chronicles the pathetic tale of a 35-year-old painter (who doesn't paint) who is madly in love with a maddening 17-year-old girl who has already showed an older painter to his death (he died of "obsession," too, it would appear).But maybe boredom and obsession are more closely aligned than one would think.
Like the girl in this book, all objects of obsession.Still, 2-start credit goes to Moravia for getting me through, start to finish, despite the fact that I loathed both painter and his nymphomaniac friend (in fairness, they both qualify for that particular branch of "boredom").I should have known, reading a book of this title.
In obsessed spades lifting chunks of boredom from the roots.
En segundo lugar, este sentimiento no es sino una excusa para contarnos la historia de una pasión mal llevada.
Uno, el hombre, un adolescente treintañero de mamá, y otra, la mujer, una teen, con un (debemos suponer) tremendo poder sexual, sin nada en la cabeza (aunque puede ser que eso es lo que nos da a entender el sosainas hombre, cuando en realidad la niñita es una lista de muy señor mío; en cualquier caso nunca sabemos qué es lo que pasa realmente por su cabecita y si nos atenemos a lo que nos cuenta el susodicho sosainas eso que le pasa por la cabecita es nada ...
He happens upon Cecila, an attractive, elusive, seventeen-year old girl and ultimately destroys himself through trying to possess her.This novel is rife with fascinating character relationships.
First, there is Dino's pitiful relationship with his mother, of whom we are afforded only a glimpse of character, but Moravia's skilfull weaving of diaologue with first person narrtive allows us to peer far enough into her psyche tp understand her emotional turmoil and leave us curious as to how deep the troubles in her relationship with Dino go.
Amongst these, you are again only afforded glimpses of Dino's relationship with Cecila, Cecilia's with the deceased artist Balestrieri, and the also Cecilia's with her parents.
Yet another "existential" novel about a disaffected rich prick going through an existential crisis. Like Sartre's protagonist in  Nausea  or Huysmans'  Against Nature , the protagonist here is a spoiled twit who feels disconnected with the world, but he calls it "boredom." Fair enough. Our poor little rich boy has stopped painting (it's boring) and really isn't doing much other than spying on his neighbors (but only half-heartedly since that's also boring). Enter one 17 year old vamp who, except
Our poor little rich boy has stopped painting (it's boring) and really isn't doing much other than spying on his neighbors (but only half-heartedly since that's also boring).
He decides to dump her (she's boring) but she starts acting weird which annoys the shit out of our protagonist because he thought he, like, totally possessed her, but now she's acting on her own.
He decides he must possess her and then, and only then, can he dump her (because she's boring).
But until he possesses her, she's not boring.Like any good existential novel, there is no real ending.
It’s a story about 35 yr.old prick Dino, Italian dandy, who is bored out of his f*ucking mind.
I mean he doesn’t really want to be a painter, but at least, with a brush he feels like he is at least doing something (although ‘doing something’ is not an imperative to him), and the truth is - he is doing nothing.
His boredom has a face and it’s everywhere.
And she starts milking the life, mind, sex, money and any decency that he has as a man.
For me, this book is horrible, I despise Dino, but this is the point of Boredom.
إنّها العلمنة الكاملة , و الأبيقوريّة الديونيزيّة المحضة , بطلة القصّة تهتمّ بالمتعة فقط , إنّها الم

La prosa di Moravia provoca continui orgasmi.Questa è la mia recensione per temperamente.it: Una volta mi è stato detto che La noia è un libro pesante, senza dubbio più de Gli indifferenti e di altre opere moraviane. Ebbene, non posso che dissentire con chi fece quell’affermazione. “Pesante”, come intendo io questo termine, non lo è affatto: argomento molto impegnativo e non certo da libro harmony (ma quando mai un’opera di Moravia – o di qualsiasi altro Autore con l’iniziale maiuscola – è stata tale?), prosa, per dirlo con dei superlativi, elegantissima, scorrevolissima, chiarissima. Insomma, moravian(issim)a. [...]Per continuare la lettura: http://www.temperamente.it/novecento/...
I love Alberto Moravia's work. A hard title for someone to get excited about - but this book is anything but boring.A story of a wealthy man who is extremely bored with life. Out of spite and just to play a game he decides to seduce a young girl who is from the lower class. Of course what happens the girl becomes an object of obsession for him that drives him nuts. A great novel!
Per buona parte delle sue pagine il romanzo è un’autentica apnea da cui è difficile risalire: l’indolenza del protagonista e la sua incomprensibile incapacità di attribuire la minima rilevanza a qualunque oggetto o figura gli si presenti innanzi demoralizzano ed irritano il lettore, ma se si ha la pazienza di perseverare nella lettura si schiuderanno delle pagine di profonda e toccante verità.
Leggere un romanzo di Moravia è un po' come trovarsi al tavolino di un caffè con un amico che ti racconta, in maniera del tutto confidenziale ma diretta, le sue esperienze.
Moravia, da vivo, non mi piaceva.Questo è il primo libro che leggo, penso sarà anche l'ultimo.Da morto, Moravia, continua a non piacermi.Amen.
The novel starts with the boredom of the central character Dinno which differs from ordinary way in which this word is used .
He is too convinced that women is in love with her and that possibly is reason why she appears boring to him just like other objects .
Things gets really problematic for Dinno when he realise that the women is not that interested in him as he imagined her to be .
In the end it became a quest for me to understand the psychology of the female character but like Dinno I too failed miserably .
طورتُ ارتباطًا مظطردًا بازدياد بهذهِ الرواية منذ الشروع في قراءتها، في تمهيد الرواية تطرق الراوي لتعريفات متعددة لوصف السأم الذي يشعر به، و في هذهِ المواجهات المباشرة لاحظتُ أنّ ذلك ليس سأمًا ببساطة، و تساءلت عن مقدار تسامح السأم الذي يسمح لذلك القدر من المشاعر و الأفعال الملتبسة لأن تستظلل بظلّه.
و رغم أنه تم ادراج تعريف لهذه الكلمة، إلا أني استدركت متساءلة عن ماهية السأم، و لماذا لم يستخدم الراوي كلمة أخرى ليحمّلها أزمته، ثم عدت أفكر عما إن كان السأم هو ببساطة الكثافة الضخمة لشعور أو إدراك مهما بلغت درجة التباسه و بالتالي لا تهم حقيقته مادامت النتيجة تؤدي إلى السأم، حين تسأمه أنت تفعله باستمرار حتى لاتعود قادرًا على التوقف عنه و بالتالي الإحساس به، فلم يبقى منه إلا السأم.
My fave line from The Boredom: "Boredom, for me, was like a kind of fog in which my thought was constantly losing its way, catching glimpses only at intervals of some detail of reality: like a person in a thick mist who catches a glimpse now of the corner of a house, now of the figure of a passer-by, now of some other object, but only for an instant, before they vanish."No one writes like Moravia. This book is the one that makes your head feel just right fuzzy !
My fave line from ‪‎The‬ Boredom: "Boredom, for me, was like a kind of fog in which my thought was constantly losing its way, catching glimpses only at intervals of some detail of reality: like a person in a thick mist who catches a glimpse now of the corner of a house, now of the figure of a passer-by, now of some other object, but only for an instant, before they vanish."No one writes like Moravia. This book is the one that makes your head feel just right fuzzy !
This sounds more to me like depression than boredom.When Dino meets a very young woman named Cecelia he begins an intense sexual relationship with her.
In order to make her seem more interesting he even experiments with treating her cruelly, but he quickly comes to his senses and decides that the best thing to do is to end the relationship.
This is the point in the story where things become interesting for Dino.Just as he is about to break the affair off with Cecelia she starts to become detached from him and begins missing their daily meetings.
Поразительно, как часто это со мной бывает, множество раз ищешь одно и то же, ходишь по тем же местам и находишь совершенно иное.
Та же история приключиламь и здесь, нашёл эту книгу совершенно внезапно среди многих других результатов поиска, которые я уже встречал то тут, то там.
Книга очень интимная, в том плане, что поймет и примет ее не каждый, а те, кто примут, увидят все исключительно через призму своего жизненного опыта и ракурса.
Книга затягивает, вызывает желания, эмоции, переживания, предлагает останавливаться то тут, то там, примеряя на себя сказанное, смакуя, вспоминая, воображая.
The conversations between the compulsively interrogating narrator and his young lover, who maintains a stubborn grasp of only the most flat reality, are very funny and reflect a vision of the world so surprisingly different from that of the narrator that he feels compelled to find some way to reduce her to the "irreality" that constitutes his boredom (for example, marrying her and turning her into a "wife").
Moravia is a very good novelist who finds ways to tell a story of sometimes rather philosophical content in a fashion that maintains tension and keeps the reader moving forward.
خبر جيد!
فعلى الأقل فإن فتاته جعلت نفسها تنجرف بصدق مع قناعتها بالأنانية، ولم تكن بحاجة إلى فلسفته وتبريراته لكونه انسانا انانيا لا يحب ولا يكره، ولا يتحمس، ويقذف منيه كمن يبصقكانت تضاجع وتقدم التنازلات كما علمتها روما الحديثة..

I am currently re-reading this book because I am taking a writing class that said to bring our favorite novel to class. This came in first without much thought (second, The Temple of the Golden Pavillion).  A wonderful study on the nature of real boredom and the way cruelty and pain can bind us to the world. The movie made from the book, l'ennui, is very good too. But if you want the deep study of boredom and sexual desire/possesion, read this.Moravia is brilliant- and this is his best.
السأم ثاني رواية أقرأها لالبرتو مورافيا بعد رواية الاحتقار والتي قرأتها من اسبوع ومن فرط وقوعي في حب
قراءتي لها قديمة..لكن الرواية مهمة للمهتم بأدب مورافيا ورؤيته المجتمعية
This book should have been titled “Possession” for it deals with obsessive-possessive love spawned by the boredom of the disengaged.Dino is a 35 year-old painter who has lost his touch, a spoiled only-child of a doting but rich mother.
He hates the lifestyle she represents yet willingly settles for a generous “allowance” so that he can live apart and “poor.” This pseudo-poor state does not do his soul any good (for he can always go back to mama for a stake if times get tough) and he drifts into an obsessive relationship with a seventeen year old working class girl, Cecilia, who was the model for an older painter and neighbour, Balastrieri.
The artist who rents the studio next to his, Balestrieri, is an older gentleman – 65 or so.
Dino sees that his model visits him almost every day, and suspects that more than painting is going on.
The model, Cecilia, then comes to Dino’s studio and wants to know if he wants to paint her, since Balestrieri, her lover, is now dead.
Dino reaches the point, after starting an intense sexual relationship with her, that he now wants to possess her totally, since by possessing her he can then regard her as an object and subsequently reject her as boring.
Let me try to enumerate the thoughts which mindfully web my agony: the absolute isolation of individuals despite social ties; the insignificance of anything outside the realm of consciousness, which implies the inexistence of the self outside of others’ perception; the subjectivity of said perception so that no accomplishment, no intelligence, no wonder may ever be appreciated by pollutant eyes and minds as they ought to be noumenally; the evanescence of anything and everything, from the actually fleeting to the seemingly eternal; the beauty of learning and creation clashing with the futility of effort and achievement; the minuscule reality of humans in the galaxy, and of the galaxy in the universe, and of the universe in the possible multiverse; the lack of meaning or purpose, now, later, forever.”The prologue made me expect a better dénouement, as those feelings from a remote past were thrown back at me like a recurring plague.
A book which delves into what it means to possess a lover.
Does possession lead to boredom, which Moravia defines as a lack of relationship with reality.
In Boredom, the protagonist seems driven to make his lover predictable, which she thwarts at every turn.
He asks her, not to preserve his love for her, but as a way to end it.
That may seem like a very bizarre attitude with which to make that overture, until one considers how many marriages fail.The book is an illustration of how a man can come to want what he doesn't want, always as a way to avoid the pain that the wanting brings him.

