https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/159582.The_Yearling
The Florida Crackers that Rawlings knew so well were proud, hard-working people that only asked for help from neighbors when there was no other choice, and gave help in turn when it was needed.The description of this book would have you believe that it's the story of a young boy who adopts a fawn, and while this is true, the real story is the relationship between a boy and his father.
The dialect in the book is so real it reads like poetry.
And, of course, how they recommended this book to everyone they knew.But I hated it.Really the only looks I had as I read were:My thoughts were that it would have been a FAR better book if what I wanted to happen would have happened.
I wanted little Flag to show up on page 1 (instead of 130) and have rabies, thus infecting Jody and his parents.
So Jody kills Flag and runs away from home: moping and being, again, immature.
I honestly shudder to think what this looked like before editing...So if someone asked me if they should read this book:["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Jody’s father, Penny, is wise and kind and showers him with attention and Jody thrives on a life of hard, honest work and playing in the woods.
Jody and Penny love animals, but seem to always be killing them.
There is a destructive flood, a plague that hits the animals, attacks from starving wolves, the death of a beloved neighbor, a showdown with Old Slewfoot, and finally the sad events that shape Jody into the man he will become—someone who sees the world clearly, and is honest, and wise like his father.
Sometimes you read a book and it is just words on a page, sometimes it becomes a story.
That was my experience here.I loved Jody and Penny's relationship, how overwhelming Penny's love is for his son, how much he wants for Jody to learn and grow.
There is much to learn from the characters in this book if your heart is open.I treasured every moment I got to spend with Penny, Ora and Jody, seeing the world through their eyes.Very good book and now Andrew Peterson, a song writer, has a song about it.
It is called "The Ballad of Jody Baxter".
Neither seemed like a good plan in the end.When I cried, I cried because as a parent, there's no clear right path for raising my children.
They'd be as whiny as Jody was before his coming-of-age except they'd be trapped in it, perpetual children.My take-home message from this book is that the way to help my children grow to be capable adults is to get them a wild animal to raise so it can betray them and so open their eyes to the betrayals they can expect from life every step of the way.
The Yearling is a fine coming-of-age novel that I have somehow managed to avoid reading until know.
Fortunately, thanks to the fine folks at the On the Southern Literary Trail Goodreads group, I finally had the opportunity to read and discuss it with others who appreciate it.
Uninformed readers such as I will automatically assume that the yearling in question is the fawn prominently displayed on the cover but that is not really correct.
The real yearling is Jody, a young boy growing up in isolation with only his hard-working parents for company.
One final comment: The audiorecording of this novel was magnificently narrated by Tom Stechschulte.

Rawlings’s 1938 Pulitzer-winning novel focuses on the boy Jody, his parents Ora and Penny Baxter, their neighbors the Forresters, and their hard-scrabble lives in central Florida in about 1870.
He’s twelve years old when the novel opens, and still spends much of his time roaming about the woods, exercising his imagination and connecting with nature.
…. The birds were reflected in the clear marsh water.
Magic birds were dancing in a mystic marsh.
The grass swayed with them, and the shallow waters, and the earth fluttered under them.
The earth was dancing with the cranes, and the low sun, and the wind and sky.
In past reviews, people have speculated that if The Yearling were to have been published in today's times, would it still have been awarded the Pulitzer Prize for Literature.
I say so because the novel captures, with vivid simplicity, a bygone American era via the stark usage of the literaty resources available to Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings at the time, quite simply, the values, environment and language which surrounded her.
But it was also a deep almost religious respect of the land and its animals that could definitely shape the thinking and the ever evolving twists and turns that are in abundance in The Yearling.
The Yearling is Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings’ Pulitzer prize winning novel about the coming of age of Jody Baxter, the son of a backwood farming family that is trying to eke a living from a bit of high land in the Florida scrub shortly after the Civil War. The story is about a boy’s love for a fawn, a man’s love for his son, and the difficult lessons life throws in the path of a boy who lives in a world where he must become a man in order to survive.There are many wonderful characters apart from the Baxters.
A classic I had never been assigned to read or really had recommended, this 1938 novel was suggested to me by a librarian and I read it chapter by chapter over a number of weeks.Taking place on "Baxter's Island" in post-Civil War Florida, this follows the bond formed between a boy, Jody Baxter, and a fawn he rescues from the wild and attempts to domesticate.
These rare moments became comic instead of frustrating, such as when Jody's mother scolds his incorrect grammar with flaws in her own speech.It's a classic for a reason.
Complete and earthy and challenging, I'd recommend it for...
At least young Jody was having a wonderful and happy childhood until the last chapter...
The story, The Yearling, is of a young boy named Jody and his life in the hardscrabble backwoods of northern Florida in the late 1800's.
Jody and his parents live a solitary life and one where frivolous things don't belong.
I would be hard pressed to put this into the hands of a child today, though middle school patient kids who love long and carefully crafted deep stories might be candidates.
I loved the phrase, "don't go gittin' faintified on me!" The descriptions of the woods were full of words like loblolly pine, saw grass, red bay, sweet gum, and palmetto.
Looking at the book cover, I thought I was going to read about a child and his pet deer.
But Penny Baxter, Jody's father, wants his son to enjoy his childhood as long as he can.
After this singular year they are all changed and Jody has shed childhood without being forced to.I love the wisdom of Penny Baxter, Jody's father.
I love the thought of a beautiful father and son relationship and where the son learns what is right and wrong from his own dad.There are a lot of descriptives in this book, scenery and food among others, that plant me firmly in the time period.
By today's standards, this slow-paced and ponderous work seems ill-fitting to Y/A, and yet too ordinary or naive for adult readerships.
But to me in fifth grade, perhaps because of my thirst for another time and place from my poverty and fear, and of course my love of animals, this was the perfect fit, if a bit haunting.
Rawlings allowed me to both escape and yet experience sympathy through her tender rendering of timeless portraits of a child and his pet--unconditional love that could never be properly requited.This is a lost classic which may never receive the recognition it deserves.
Along with that, comes the daily struggle of surviving.
He should have seen that nothing good could come of it.
The loss of his only friend made his desire even more to have Flag as a pet.The book is about a year (yearling) of the adventures of life on the farm and the lessons one has to learn along the way to go from a young boy to being a man.
It does make one notice how much our pets are part of our family and a loss is very hard to take.
I had never read this classic, despite the fact that it is set just south of here, I have seen the original manuscript at UF archives, and been to Rawlings house where whe wrote it.
It was slow, but there is some nice vivid imagery of rural Florida.
The story is centered around a boy, maybe ten years old, and his expireinces growing up as an early settler in Florida.
I was shocked by Rawlings descriptions of some of the female characters, but understood after finishing the book whay she wrote them as she did.
Despite the slow going, the book deserves its praise- a beautiful metaphor for growing up.
I HATE THIS BOOK PERIOD! PLEASE DO NOT READ THIS! YOU WILL MISS HALF OF YOUR LIFE OR EVEN MORE! hahahaha
I read this book because I was required to, and any joy I may have gotten out of it was destroyed before I even started.
The Yearling is not a book for those who get bored easily. The book is slow-moving, taking its time to vividly describe the Florida wild. Although the description is indeed colorful and paints the picture well, there's a fine line to walk between enough description, and too much. Sadly, The Yearling doesn't quite walk this line.  The book is the tale of young Jody Baxter, a twelve year old boy living in the wild of Florida. When his father shoots a doe, Jody convinces him to let him take the you
The book is the tale of young Jody Baxter, a twelve year old boy living in the wild of Florida.
Prose is the box, packaging is the plot and characters, and the item is the theme.
Too much prose with too little plot, characters, and theme ends in a dull book.
Too little plot or character, even if the theme and prose is fantastic, is still a dull book.
Sadly, The Yearling has a box that's a bit too big, and ends up eliminating the point of the packaging and the item itself.
Rawlings is good at description but only so much is needed per book.
I thought the book was over-hard on the mother and soft on the father (who never did get around to digging a well despite those six babies lost to late miscarriage and early death).
Fodder-wing's caged menagerie included a lot of babies likely to end as stew meat.
The dog in the story includes terrier blood and is likely the size of a small Fox Terrier or Rat Terrier.And then I come back, once more.
I have seen the movie based on this novel countless times and I am certain The Yearling was required reading more than once.
This story definitely loomed large throughout my many days of living in Florida, but I just could not remember the details of having read it other than the climactic event at the end.
And, yes, it is a coming-of-age story that touches the heart and soul of the journey from boyhood to manhood.This novel was published in March,1938, making this year the 80th anniversary of its first printing.
Ular-ular merayap bebas karena periode terpanas sudah lewat dan masa ganti kulit serta kebutaan mereka telah usai” [hal 261]Mereka hidup di sebuah lahan yang telah di beli oleh Penny dari keluarga Forrester.Wilayah yang dikelilingi pohon pinus."wilayah kecil dengan tumbuhan subur; bahkan dipenuhi pohon hammock yang paling subur dibanding semuanya.
Selain berburu, setiap hari Jody membantu ibunya untuk mengangkut air dari sebuah tempat air resapan yang telah disekat-sekat oleh Penny untuk kebutuhan keluarga dan ternak yang berjarak beberapa kilometer dari rumah mereka.
Jody sangat mencintai alam, setiap kali dia dan ayahnya berburu, dia selalu menginginkan seekor binatang yang bisa dipeliharanya sejak kecil.
One of the book's triumphs as I see it is the natural and easy way the interior backwoods Florida dialect came across.
And the book was fine and above-average.It's about the story of a young teenage boy coming to adulthood in a very rural, agrarian, interior community in Florida.
The relationship of humans to nature, in both its harshness and its simple beauty, is a big theme.
It wasn't really until the very end that it became clear that the fawn was symbolic of the boy himself; and the fawn's turning into a hard-to-manage yearling was symbolic of Jody's passing from carefree childhood and adolescence to responsible adulthood.My one criticism of the book is that it ended rather abruptly and in a rushed, disorganized way.
Rawlings sets us up for loss from the end of the first chapter: "A mark was on [Jody] from the day's delight, so that all his life, when April was a thin green and the flavor of rain was on his tongue, an old wound would throb and a nostalgia would fill him for something he could not quite remember." And as shet sets us up, she inspires the same feeling of vague loss that each of us carries.
Rawling's may leave us without a shred of hope for the death of the yearling (i.e. Jody)--"It was not his own voice that called.
It started out very good and continued throughout the book but, I really despised the ending.
All the settings were very involved in the action and Rawlings really made the contrasts of emotion in different scenes and different characters come to life.
The relationship between Jody and the yearling was touching and his own narration of the link between nature/civilization and animal/human was very well executed by Rawlings.
Jody comes to understand the consequence of choice and his own personal journey of innocence to worldliness is natural and goes beyond what I had originally anticipated.
I read this because an adult male told me that he loved this book as a middle school kid, but it took me 200 pages of suffering to get into it.
I can't imagine recommending it to a modern kid because the use of dialect is unwieldy, the length is daunting, and the copious descriptions of pastoral scenes could get tedious.
The plot catches up with the language, the dialect falls away, the characters stop being caricatures, and you want to read while peeking between fingers covering your eyes because you know it's going to end with heartbreak.
Finally I said, well, now's the time, and sat down to read it.
I've always loved the MGM version with Gregory Peck and Jane Wyman.
Rawlings' book is flintier, tougher, somehow even more moving.
Rawlings was a pet of Maxwell Perkins and their published correspondence makes a great companion piece to this.
This book is for children but isn't at all, too.
It is about arriving at the moment in life when for the first time you are forced to kill the thing that you think will be the only thing in your life just like it, the only thing you will ever love.
Sometimes, I just need to read a slow book that focuses on the beauty and variety of nature.
Maybe I appreciate that more as an adult than I would have as a child, or maybe I felt more attuned to the nature described because I now live in the South.
This book has beauty and loneliness and love and the drama of living poor; but what I loved most was the tension between the humans and wildness of nature - the way they collided and made peace.
I could feel Rawlings' love for her native land in every attention paid to the plants and animals that parade so abundantly through her story.
I read this when I was a little girl, & I believe my Dad read it before me when he was a boy, since this book, in one of it's OLD hardback editions, lived in the cupboard of an old red topped desk in my grandparents' home.This was wonderfully written, an absolute delight :) It remains one of my favorites.
