https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/890626.A_Complete_Guide_to_Heraldry
Banners, crests, dragons, guilds, towns, heraldic lions, dragons :: all dating from the fourteenth to the twentieth century. So very cool.
nerdy
What's not to like about coats of arms and shields and crests? Well-told and properly explained. Loved this.
A very comprehensive account purchased for reference. very useful information with clear and precise details and examples.
ISBN? - 9781853263651General Subject/s? - History / Heraldry / Politics / ArtTitle? - Common images that appear on heraldic badges and what they mean - badgers, lions, tigers, panthers, helmets, crowns, etc.General Analysis? - A fantastic book full of facts that help you to break down complex images into bite-size chunks. I use it for the heraldic badges, but it can be used for a much wider purpose as well.Recommend? – Yes, great.
I'm actually in the Project Gutenberg edition at http://www.gutenberg.org/files/48573/... and hoping that this and that are the same, but it's a lovely pick up and browse sort of a book. I'd expected more about the art and less about the weaponry, but I'm pleasantly surprised indeed. Very much a browsing book rather than a cover-to-cover one for anyone outside of specialty research, but I'll definitely be going back over this a few more times.
If someone is interested in heraldry, this is a good book for teaching the basics of blazon - the rules that are followed in designing and "reading" a coat of arms. But that is all it is. It's a primer, not an advanced text. Nor is it a reference work for determining if a design is in conflict with extant arms. Regard it in that light, and it deserves a place on your reference shelf.
Love this book. Classical heraldry book from the Victorian perspective, very clear and easy to understand.
honorable subject
Pretty much the definitive work on the subject. 'Nuff said!
Love this book. Classical heraldry book from the Victorian perspective, very clear and easy to understand.
