https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35187203-the-overstory
The flaw in this approach is that the book either reads like a literary triumph that starts slow then builds to something satiating, or it reads like a bait-and-switch with a breathtaking start followed by a wearisome and long-winded trek to the conclusion.
Part 1 (called “Roots”) reads like a magnificent short story collection.
These characters remain separate in “Roots,” yet their stories are united by meaningful interaction with trees.
Powers pulls back the curtain to introduce trees as a tenth character and forces us to examine our role in, and relationship to, nature.
Richard Powers’s “The Overstory” soars up through the canopy of American literature and remakes the landscape of environmental fiction.Long celebrated for his compelling, cerebral books, Powers demonstrates a remarkable ability to tell dramatic, emotionally involving stories while delving into subjects many readers would otherwise find arcane.
In 2006, his novel about neurology, “The Echo Maker,” won a National Book Award.
And now he’s turned his attention, more fully than ever before, to our imperiled biome and particularly to the world’s oldest, grandest life-forms: trees.“The Overstory” moves the way an open field evolves into a thick forest: slowly, then inevitably.
The latter of those two surprised me because I thought that knowing the story would reduce the emotional impact, but the reverse happened.I loved all the comparisons of speed (humans, the natural world, computers) and I got a lot more out of Neelay's story this time through.So, whilst I can understand the criticisms some have made, I'm choosing to ignore those bits and take the novel as a whole which is, I think, required reading.---------Update: on reflection, I got a bit excited about having a new Richard Powers book to read and I have definitely, despite what I say below, read better books this year.
Shortlisted for the Man Booker in 2018, The Overstory is a brilliant and passionate book about humans and their relationship to trees and the natural environment.The first half of the book is exceptional.
Written like short stories, 9 characters are introduced separately with their tree story.
The stories are phenomenal.The second half of the book is about these same characters being drawn together to fight the cause of saving trees.
However, I found the second half to be too long.
His book is 500 pages long and not an easy one to get through.
Perhaps a convincing resolution is too much to ask when the subject matter is so diverse and extraordinary.The book is all about trees, and in many ways the trees are more important than the diverse cast of human characters, all of whom become involved with protecting, nurturing or learning from trees in many different ways.
For me, Barkskins was the more complete book.The details are, as ever with Powers, fascinating and impressive, but inevitably the science is a little simplified to meet the demands of the story and some of the conjecture is decidedly fanciful.
This amazing book connects specific trees to people or families and then the stories come together and morph into being about the environment, how trees relate to each other, and this underlying theme of personal and natural histories that always play out. Decisions have long-reaching consequences, etc. The first section had me in tears about Chestnut trees. All I wanted to do when I reached the end was go back to the beginning. I started this as a review copy but bought my own hardcover before I hit 100 pages.
The novel shifts its focus somewhat in the final section, with a somewhat cryptic hint that trees may well outlast humanity.Parts of The Overstory rate five stars, easily, but personally I hit a bit of a wall with the lengthy middle section, “Trunk.” As brilliantly written as the book is, it’s also sometimes slow-paced, repetitious and didactic, as Powers delves into the evils of the corporations and groups who are indiscriminately cutting down trees and eliminating forests, and the worst of the tactics they use against those who try to oppose them.
Also, as Powers points out more than once, trees live very slowly compared to humans, and that is echoed in the deliberate pacing of The Overstory.For readers already of the view that humans are doing profound damage to the ecology of our world, The Overstory will give you additional arguments and inspiration.
Brilliant, slow, and meditative. It made me evaluate my ideas about sustainability, wood, and trees and how I can be a better person in the world. None of the characters really stuck with me, but the presentation of different species of trees (and individual trees situated in places and times) in their grand majesty over time was extraordinary.My hardback copy was printed on recycled paper, which was a good detail!
Now Shortlisted for the Man Booker Prize 2018 Richard Powers goes eco-fiction: In "The Overstory", the real protagonists are trees - living, breathing, communicating, ever-evolving, hard-working, intelligent trees.
Powers knits a whole web of protagonists, and the rootage of the book is a compilation of short stories, introducing the human characters: Nicholas Hoel (who grew up on a farm), Mimi Ma (the daughter of a Chinese immigrant), Adam Appich (a psychologist), Ray Brinkman and Dorothy Cazaly (a childless married couple), Douglas Pavlicek (a war veteran), Neelay Mehta (a computer game developer), Patricia Westerford (a biologist), and Olivia Vandergriff (a recently divorced student).
Gradually, the reader understands how these people's destinies are connected, and all these connections relate to trees and forest preservation.
The first is the concept of different timescales and in particular the link to Artificial intelligence; something which I think was vital to the very conception of this book which arose when the author was based around Silicon Valley but walking amongst ancient trees.
A bibliography is not required for a novel but I think it would have been useful given the campaigning nature of the book, so I will add my own.
Unfortunately, I came away from this wondering if I might have been better served reading Wohlleben's  Secret life of trees .I am aware Powers has a degree in Physics as well as literature and that becomes obvious in sentences like these :Ten million points flicker in the falling dark, like logic gates of a circuit cranking out solutions to a calculation generations in the making.
There are far better reviews available that discuss the ecological themes of this book, its' unusual structure, the characters and why Powers might win a place on the Man Booker shortlist.
We didn't know how hard it is for you to grow back."Powers begins his monumental novel by introducing his characters - each with their own short story.
As one character mentions, "Demand for wood has tripled in our lifetime." I didn't enjoy this part as much as the character introductions, but it still made for a powerful read."Trees stand at the heart of ecology, and they must come to stand at the heart of human politics.
People could be the heaven that the Earth is trying to speak to."If we could see green, we'd see a thing that keeps getting more interesting the closer we get.
If we know what green wanted, we wouldn't have to choose between the Earth's interests and ours.
I had conflicted feelings while getting through the pages, because while I was loving the story and its importance, I was also frustrated with the fact that the storyline is messy and hard to keep track of, and I had difficulties keeping the characters straight and remembering who was who.
And she could never keep the characters straight."This book encapsulates nature and the secret life of trees in many ways, and these sentences encapsulate exactly how I was feeling while reading.
I love "The Overstory" for its importance and its ability to drag the reader into a somewhat messy plot and still make us feel like we are reading important, unique and dangerous history.
As Ovid began “Metamorphoses”:Let me sing to you now, about how people turn into other things.For example, a key character, Patricia, grows up feeling isolated by her hearing impairment but gets drawn to the mysteries of the world of plants through the inspiration of outdoor travels with her father and readings of his books such as those by the 19th century naturalist John Muir, who said:We all travel the Milky Way together, trees and men … In every walk with nature one receives far more than he seeks.
A third invents the whole idea of world building god games (like Sim City and Sid Meier’s Civilisation).And in the book’s own specialist topic area, Patricia Westerford, later to become a best-selling author of seminal popular science books on the life of trees, is, earlier in her career, ridiculed by her fellow research students (as “Plant-Patty”) and humiliated and ostracised by the academic community when she is, in the novel, the first person to propose the (later academically credited) idea of trees communcating by airborne semaphores.
The forest is a paradise that never ceases to amaze her: "She works all day in the woods, her back crawling with chiggers, her scalp with ticks, her mouth filled with leaf duff, her eyes with pollen, cobwebs like scarves around her face, bracelets of poison ivy, her knees gouged by cinders, her nose lined with spores, the backs of her thighs bitten Braille by wasps, and her heart as happy as the day is generous." Even when Patricia, who has enjoyed quite a solitary existence, falls in love late in life, she can't help making a reference to trees when describing her happiness: "She takes his shaking hand in the dark.
4.5 Stars4.5 Stars“We lived on a street where the tall elm shadeWas as green as the grass and as cool as a bladeThat you held in your teeth as we lay on our backsStaring up at the blue and the blue stared back“I used to believe we were just like those treesWe'd grown just as tall and as proud as we pleasedWith our feet on the ground and our arms in the breezeUnder a sheltering sky” -- Only a Dream, Mary Chapin Carpenter, Songwriters: Mary Chapin Carpenter ”First there was nothing. Then there was
Later that night, he will propose to Vi, a young Irish girl, and they marry before Christmas, and will move ”through the great tracts of eastern white pine, into the dark beech forests of Ohio, across the Midwestern oak breaks, and out to the settlement near Fort Des Moines in the new state of Iowa, where the authorities give away land platted yesterday to anyone who will farm it..
Then throughout the book, I re-erupted with it, sometimes to Richard Powers, sometimes to whatever force allowed me to understand what came through Powers, through the page, through the people he was writing through, and through the ancient tree memory that pervaded this orgasmic and sweeping novel about all of Nature’s life.This book, the writing, the subject of trees and Life with a capital "L" throbs.
Love of and for trees as the complicated communal beings that they are, and when you feel that, it changes everything—from your relationship to the book you're holding that once was a tree, to your connection to Life, to the incontrovertible knowing that there is nothing that is not alive and remembering and praying, and even if we humans destroy ourselves, Life will always go on.
What I'm interested in when I read is conflict and human interest and interpersonal dynamics, and when none of that is at the forefront of a book, I'm inevitably going to struggle with it.While Richard Powers did create a host of distinct characters in The Overstory - the first section of the novel is eight different short stories, one following each of the main characters through defining moments in their early lives - it soon becomes apparent that their stories aren't the ones that Powers is interested in telling.
On a sentence-by-sentence level, I lost track of the amount of times I paused and reread a particularly striking passage, and the amount of detail that Powers is able to pack into every page is incredibly impressive.
The Overstory  is a big, ambitious, urgent, impassioned, and fact-filled novel. By turns, fascinating, stimulating, frustrating, and fatiguing, the novel’s central premise is that humans aren’t the stars of the show they think they are. They are only one part (and a blind, brutal, rapaciously destructive one at that) of a far larger, intelligent, mysteriously interconnected world.In “Roots”, the first portion of a book whose sections are named for the parts of a tree, Powers introduces us to mo
They are only one part (and a blind, brutal, rapaciously destructive one at that) of a far larger, intelligent, mysteriously interconnected world.In “Roots”, the first portion of a book whose sections are named for the parts of a tree, Powers introduces us to most of his large cast of characters.
even a paralyzed young computer programmer/digital game developer, who has spent the majority of his life in an alternate world of his own creating, knows that humans share a quarter of their genes with trees.
The Overstory is the second Richard Powers book I have read – after  Plowing the Dark  – and although I liked this a lot more, I find it equally difficult to talk about. Perhaps it's simply the scope of it: the cast of characters alone is vast, and if I start trying to write a summary of each of them I'll be here all day. The plot is even harder to pin down. It is, of course, basically about trees. Trees as the extraordinary, underappreciated, misunderstood organism and life-force they are. Tree
The first half takes its time introducing the characters, their histories, their strange little links to the world of trees.
I loved the way Powers shows us these solitary people, or couples or families, as separate units yet part of a greater network – just like the trees, naturally – and celebrates their differences.
I loved Neelay's plot strand, and could have read an entire book just about him (is it significant that of all the characters, he has the least interaction with the others?)You're studying what makes some people take the living world seriously when the only real thing for everyone else is other people.
This is a novel where full attention must be paid.Still, the truth is I learned a ton about the world of trees and will never look at them quite the same way again.
Just this past weekend, two lots near ours cleared, cut and/or burned many of the trees on their property in preparation for building.
It is a commitment, though, so be aware when you start that it’s a lengthy, dense, and thoughtful kind of book.
This isn’t a book you’ll be inclined to speed read.
And although it’s a “tree-hugger” kind of book, it is not preachy and has an optimistic heart.
I can't stop thinking about this book.
A sprawling literary eco-epic, The Overstory is the kind of novel that changes people.
It's a riveting call to arms and a bitter indictment of our wasteful culture.
More than this, it's an incredibly human story with a huge cast of rich characters that you'll never forget.
Dense but accessible, Powers is a master of intersecting science, art, and spirituality without sacrificing plot.
I pity the next customer who comes in looking for "a book about trees".
Powers has given me a lot to say.
Thanks to Meg Sherman at WW Norton for the ARC
Trying to explain Richard Powers' Overstory a few weeks back I told someone that it was as if Wendell Berry had written a work of magical realism.
I don't know if that's exactly right or not now, but I know that this novel is something different than anything else I've ever read.
When I finished it the first time, I took a few weeks to try and digest it.
Good novels aren't simple card tricks.
Good novels make the Statue of Liberty disappear before your eyes.
This is the only book I've read this year that's done that.
While I found it slow to start with, it’s a book that rewards patience.Nine characters are introduced in what appear to be unconnected but thematically linked short stories.
It’s a lengthy prelude to the main event, but worth it for the depth it brings to these characters before their stories converge into an ensemble piece.
But as a story about emotionally damaged people seeking kinship, the pitfalls of activism, and as a heartfelt ode to forests, it is an absorbing read, providing lots of food for thought.
When I began reading this magnificent book I declared "this is going to be one of my favorite books of 2018." Then something happened.
I was entranced by the chestnut-manna scene that begins the novel, and the lone tree that survives on the Hoel farm, and every perfect thing that happened between the words "Now is the time of chestnuts" and "the bluest of Midwestern skies."Then, ok, what followed was "interesting." Now and then I felt moved.
But mostly I felt led around, like being on a tour at a museum where the docent hurries you from room to room, when what you really want is to spend some more time right where you are, seeing less, but seeing full.
This is my first novel by Powers and I couldn't help but admire the guy's ambition, dense writing style, and the massive scope with which he approached The Overstory.Clocking in at just over 500 pages, The Overstory is filled to the brim with an astonishing nine primary characters with their own supporting casts.
I found these opening sections worked a bit like a short story collection that revolved around a central premise: trees.
Undoubtedly the book had me groaning in bits where Powers lays it all on thicker than tree sap.
I’ve been hesitant about reading Richard Powers for years because some readers I know have dismissed his writing as pretentious.
He frames these stories through the lens of trees so time is altered to recount events at their pace of life.
The stories initially leap through years and big events are recounted in brief.
While they seem so disparate at first they gradually thread together throughout the novel to tell a much larger story.
Powers structures the novel like a tree itself from the roots to the trunk to the crown to the seeds.
Read my full review of The Overstory by Richard Powers on LonesomeReader
LAMENT FOR THE GOLDEN AGE  Then the great conifersRuffled at home on the high hills.They had no premonition of the axeHurtling towards them on its parabola.Or of the shipyard. Or of what other landsThey would glimpse from the lift of the ocean swell. The quotation above comes from Ovid's Metamorphoses, in the translation by Ted Hughes. It is part of the description of the Age of Gold, the Edenic era in which people were content to live in harmony with nature, and trees unharvested grew tall as
Atwood's comparison is true of every Powers book that I have read, rooted in fact yet over the top at the same time.
I also thought of the structure and even more the moral range of Patrick White's towering Riders in the Chariot.There is Nicholas Hoel, a young sculptor, growing up on an Iowa farm in the shade of a huge chestnut tree planted by his great-great-great-grandfather.
But I suspect that Olivia's story may turn out to be the key to unlock all the others.======Into the ForestThe long middle section of the novel, "Trunk," is basically the story of the opposition to clear-cutting of virgin forests in the West, including various forms of protest and civil disobedience, leading eventually to actual violence.
The only thing that really counts is hoarding a little bit more.There's a strange thread running through this novel.
The theme is hammered home repeatedly with resounding force and frequency: we can't identify with plants, thus we aren't able to recognize their integral position in ecology.
Yeah, well, maybe that's why my focus suffered throughout this 500 page novel.
It isn't the ecology but the response to human devastation thereof.
I didn't sense a passion in this novel, unlike the reverence for music epistemology which garland his other works, The Overstory's embrace of environmentalism appeared almost perfunctory.
