https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/95558.Solaris
Many sci-fi authors think that they write about aliens. The truth is, they really don't.  Instead, they essentially write about humans. Most sci-fi aliens are little more than an allegory for humanity, a mirror through which we can see ourselves - maybe slightly different-looking, with more (or fewer) appendages, different senses, funny names, different social structures - but still unmistakably human.  And so, when we think of aliens as shown in popular literature/ cinematography, 99% of us wi
Many sci-fi authors think that they write about aliens.
Whichever way the sci-fi aliens are described, there is always something about them that we can relate to.
that there is no way humans can comprehend or relate to its vast alienness.
But, unlike the aliens of our space dreams that may love us or hate us or despise us, the Ocean of Solaris does not seem to particularly care.
But to me this will always remain an brilliant, albeit a little dry story of a mysterious and alien ocean which may or may not be alive and may or may not even care.
I rate books base on my enjoyment and while this was an very interesting take on the whole "alien/first contact" I can't say I had a lot of fun reading it.I do recommend it if you love that premise and are intrigue about a sentient ocean but it won't be for everyone!
I'm afraid I'm a philistine. I liked the Soderberg remake of the movie most, then the book, and last the original Tarkovsky movie. If you're cultured and sophisticated, I think that you're supposed to have the exact opposite ordering. Oh well.In my defense, I recall that, when I watched the Tarkovsky version, I looked around at one point and discovered that the people on both sides of me had fallen asleep. As far as I can remember, this is the only time I've ever see it happen.
Darn those coercive, psychic ocean mind waves!**Despite work, an appalling lack of sleep, work, life, work, copious amounts of laundry, work, and MORE WORK, I finally finished this little gem of a book.
I am giving it four stars for now, but depending on how I feel after I absorb more of the book, I may bump up the rating.
Do we even fully understand ourselves enough to communicate clearly with them?The planet Solaris is inhabited by one living organism--a vast "ocean" that covers the entire planet.
Without spoiling the book, a psychologist named Kris Kelvin arrives in a space station above the ocean to study the organism.
Three scientists on the remote planet Solaris seek contact with the lone enormous creature occupying it -- the ocean.
When the scientists start bombarding the ocean with xrays, for lack of a better idea, the planet sends to each of them a visitor from an emotionally charged period of their own lives.
The simulacra obviously constitute contact of a very high order, an enormously rich opportunity, it seems to me, to communicate one on one with the entity.
But the horrified scientists never see that.
This reader came to understand what was necessary after about page 100 or so.
Yet the book drones on for another hundred pages.
The scientists never get it.
I've been meaning to read this for a while, and bought the book years ago because I know Lem is one of the greats of SF.
Plus, I figured if they made a movie out of it, the story had to have some good staying power.
True, I haven't read much Sci-fi lately.
I like me some Sci-fi, vintage or otherwise.
But the story just felt cumbersome to me.
Half of it was an engaging psychological teaser/thriller/mystery, the other half read like the research bibliography covering 100 years of fictional science surrounding a fictional planet.
The first half was pretty good.
This book is a timeless masterpiece of science fiction.
Everything we know about the universe in the book there is a review, not to speak of the human psyche that the writer brought to the last hidden parts of humanity.
At the end of what we know about the universe, only tiny details and the man is not at all aware of what hidden in the vastness of the stars.
The whole book permeated by challenging the planet Solaris, which is, in fact, a living being.
The book I would recommend to all fans of science fiction, I enjoyed in the author's imagination.
I found it difficult enough to get my head around the behaviour and motivations of humans, I had enough problems understanding my own world, that the possibility of engaging meaningfully with aliens struck me as, to all intents and purposes, impossible.For this same reason, I have never been particularly drawn to Sci-Fi. The writers and books I most enjoy are ones that I believe contain insights about human nature, that help me come to terms with who I am and how my world works.
It’s by no means a boring read, or a bad story, it just contains numerous dull sections that I recommend you skim over.P.S: I love spotting dated tech/attitudes in old SF works and I collected a few in Solaris- The radio set Kris uses needs time for its ‘valves’ to warm up, the station is packed with heavy old paper books, and the 'auto-librarian' spits out bits of cardboard when asked questions.
Who could have thought of a planet, almost covered by ocean and that the ocean is in reality an organism enveloping the planet?
The reason is that, in my opinion, it is the writing that makes this book worth reading.
I read a good portion of the book while our motorboat was afloat the notorious Devouring Bay last weekend, the passengers uncertain of their fate, considering the strong wind and the mile-high waves.
Since the main alien character of this book is the organism enveloping the planet Solaris, Lem made sure that the ocean, alongside all those technical terms that made his narration felt believable.
Obviously, this is not science fiction meant to be read by teens/tweens, waiting for the next evolution of the Twilight series or FableHaven or whatever teenagers read now.
This is Big Mamma Science Fiction dealing with big issues using philosophy and poetry to communicate both the strangeness of mankind and the gentle waves of the Universe.
Being a translation*, the reader (or listener) is only able to capture an incomplete shadow of Lem's original text.
However, if the shadow is any indication, the height of Solaris in Polish must have been a mimoid on a grand scale.* of a translation (see comments below).
(I will review this properly after re-read, but I can say that this book was fantastic; I've seen the newer movie - which was good - and will watch the older at some point. Not action-packed, but more pondering kind of a book.)
It is unfortunate that Lem is labeled as an author of "science fiction", but really only because of what the american traditions for that genre have imprinted on our culture.
Solaris is a deeply philosophical look at the notion of "otherness", a meditation on the hard limits at the edges of human cognition, and science's inability to look outside of problems that science can describe.
Tarkovsky's Solaris is brilliant for it's own reasons, but it misses the deep meditation on science that makes Lem's work so interesting.
That other guy's version of Solaris is well worth forgetting.
Μήπως όλα αυτά δεν είναι και μια απόδειξη πως τα πάντα στη ζωη, στον κόσμο, στην αντίληψή μας είναι κυκλικά και αλληλένδετα; Φαινομενικά αντίθετες μεταξύ τους έννοιες χρειάζονται η μία την άλλη, συνυπάρχουν, και είναι τελικά πολύ πιο κοντινές απ΄ ότι τις έχει διχοτομήσει η λογική και η σχολική εκπαίδευση στο μυαλό μας.
Οι μεγάλες ιδέες του Στανισλαβ Λεμ ανατάραξαν βίαια την κοσμοθεωρία μου: ο παραλληλισμός του δευτεραγωνιστή με τον Φάουστ, ο συμβολισμός του Θείου με τον Ωκεανό, η ιδέες περί αγάπης κι αφθαρσίας και ποιητικής της ζωής ιδωμένες μέσα από ένα παράλληλο σύμπαν, σ' έναν μακρινό, πολύ μακρινό μας πλανήτη.
Le roman de Stanislas Lem devint très tôt un classique du genre, sans doute propulsé par l'adaptation cinématographique de Tarkovsky en 1972 (le grand film de science-fiction soviétique, en réponse sans doute au 2001 de Kubrick / Clarke).
Soderbergh proposera une autre version (avec George Clooney) trente ans plus tard.Il s'agit d'un livre assez troublant : Kelvin, le narrateur et personnage principal, est un psychologue envoyé sur une station spatiale en orbite basse autour d'une planète-océan, Solaris, qui fut découverte plusieurs année auparavant, gravitant autour d'un soleil double.
Cuando vuelva a oír a alguien hablar de las limitaciones de la ciencia ficción como género, cogeré un ejemplar de Solaris y se lo lanzaré a la cabeza.
Σε αυτόν τον σταθμό, που έπρεπε να έχει τρεις ενοίκους (τους επιστήμονες Γκιμπάριαν, Σνάουτ και Σαρτόριους), αλλά μοιάζει να είναι εγκαταλελειμμένος, θα προσεδαφιστεί η άκατος του Κρις Κέλβιν και θα φέρει τον επιβάτη της αντιμέτωπο με τον εφιάλτη.
"Δεν θέλουμε να κατακτήσουμε το σύμπαν, θέλουμε να επεκτείνουμε τα σύνορα της Γης μέχρι τα όρια του σύμπαντος...
δεν θέλουμε να κατακτήσουμε άλλες φυλές, θέλουμε απλώς να τους κληροδοτήσουμε τις αξίες μας και να πάρουμε ως αντάλλαγμα τη δική τους κληρονομιά.
Publicada originalmente en 1961, aún seguimos hablando de esta novela como un clásico de culto, y un libro casi podríamos decir indispensable para entender la ciencia ficción y, profundizando un poco más, para entender las capacidades (e incapacidades) del ser humano a la hora de comunicarse no solo con los otros, sino también con uno mismo.
Por un lado, por cómo narra Lem. Tiene un estilo muy poético, que en ocasiones se torna un poco complejo de entender y, por otra parte, también por el hecho de que el autor inventa palabras, como en el caso de “simetriada”, que se utiliza para describir uno de los tantos fenómenos dentro del planeta.
Μπορεί ο άνθρωπος να εξερευνήσει κάθε γωνία του; Να δώσει εξηγήσεις για όλα όσα συμβαίνουν ή ακόμα ακόμα να τον χαρτογραφήσει;; Φυσικά, ο Λεμ γράφει μια αλληγορία για το συνειδητό και το ασυνείδητο!
Αλήθεια τι ακριβώς είναι οι αναμνήσεις; Πόσο μας επηρεάζουν τα όνειρα; Τα βλέπουμε σαν τιμωρία, ευχαρίστηση ή βασανιστήριο;; Τέλος, ο συγγραφέας πιστεύω πως θίγει με έναν τρόπο αρκετά σκωπτικό την δίψα του ανθρώπου για να κατακτήσει άλλους πλανήτες.
Δεν θέλουμε να κατακτήσουμε το σύμπαν, θέλουμε να επεκτείνουμε τα σύνορα της Γης μέχρι τα όρια του Σύμπαντος.” (επιστήμονας Σνάουτ)Και η σκωπτική του διάθεση αγκαλιάζει όλα τα έργα επιστημονικής φαντασίας με έναν μοναδικό τρόπο!ΥΓ: Το βιβλίο μιλάει για την Σολαρολογία.
I'm not sure if that was the author's intention, but I honestly don't know when was the last time a book made me feel that way.
I know that this added to the book's point as well as the myth's realism, but interrupting the amazing plot to provide me with all this boring scientific information, well, it was kind of a turn-off and it happened twice.
My second complaint concerns the ending which I found rather abrupt and without closure.Four stars for the emotional and philosophical depth, as well as the riveting atmosphere.
I believe that great sci-fi books are never really about the future and always about the very now.
Like all the gargantuan books (depth, not size), the themes touched here could be listed in pages, but what stood out for me is a focus on general symptoms of how we deal with the unknown, mysterious in our Western world.
It is applicable to variety of levels: cosmos in general, unsolvable questions of purpose & meaning, difference in people, menacing, conflicting ideas.
This is not a book for the answers, but a damn great one for asking thrilling questions.
When Kris Kelvin arrives at the planet Solaris to study the ocean that covers its surface, he finds a painful, hitherto unconscious memory embodied in the living physical likeness of a long-dead lover. Others examining the planet, Kelvin learns, are plagued with their own repressed and newly corporeal memories. The Solaris ocean may be a massive brain that creates these incarnate memories, though its purpose in doing so is unknown, forcing the scientists to shift the focus of their quest and wo
When Kris Kelvin arrives at the planet Solaris to study the ocean that covers its surface, he finds a painful, hitherto unconscious memory embodied in the living physical likeness of a long-dead lover.
I liked how the book explored the idea of an ocean as an alien.
Although, I felt like the whole planet Solaris was the alien, not just its ocean.Other than that, the book is pretty boring.
This is one of those books I've read to be able to say I did because I enjoyed it very little.
I've seen them both, but the Russian version felt even more boring than the book.
The most brilliant part of the novel, and something that was completely cut from the films, is the meticulous and often humorous development of academic research on Solaris which begins with breathless excitement as scientists face the prospect of man’s first possible contact with extraterrestrial life, then splitting into various factions who make minute observations of the numerous and inscrutable formations of the ocean, which get categorized into “dendromountains”, “extensors”, “megamushrooms”, “mimoids”, “symmetriads”, “asymmetriads”, etc.
Solaris wasn't very rememberable.I'm not even completely sure what it was about because not a lot of things happened.The book is short (just over 200 pages) but it doesn't feel that way.
I had to drag myself through the main character reading endless reports about the planet Solaris.
FINE, have it you way, Mr. Lem, but you won't get many stars from me on goodreads!It probably would have been better had it been a picture book.
If you could skip most of the descriptions and just look at a few pictures instead, the book would probably get cut down to a quarter of its current size.
Интригуваща идея, която ми се стори не твърде добре разработена. Прекалено много ей така зачекнати концепции и случки имаше, които по едно време не водеха наникъде и оставаха да висят просто като пълнеж в текста – да не се повтарям за Чеховия принцип, който вече съм споменавала  тук . А в един момент се изгубих сред протяжните обяснения за тази и онази теория какво представлявал прословутият океан на Соларис, какви форми образувал и всяка как се наричала, кога зреела и как умирала и т.н., и т.н.
Освен това, както повечето хора и аз лапвам въдицата като има малко енигматичност в постройката на непознат свят, но когато неизвестните станат повече от известните, мозъкът ми започва да се губи из дебрите.
(hide spoiler)] Има и малко за съдбовната неизбежност.
(view spoiler)[Може би във всеки един свят, в който са заедно, Харей ще умира и Крис няма да може да я спаси.
Накъде без него.Всъщност струва ми се, че това е първата фантастика, която съм чела, и типичните наблъскани научни и технически обяснения ми дойдоха в повече.
448. Solaris, Stanislaw LemSolaris is a 1961 philosophical science fiction novel by Polish writer Stanisław Lem. The book centers upon the themes of the nature of human memory, experience and the ultimate inadequacy of communication between human and non-human species. In probing and examining the oceanic surface of the planet Solaris from a hovering research station the human scientists are, in turn, being apparently studied by the sentient planet itself, which probes for and examines the thoug
In probing and examining the oceanic surface of the planet Solaris from a hovering research station the human scientists are, in turn, being apparently studied by the sentient planet itself, which probes for and examines the thoughts of the human beings who are analyzing it.
All efforts of human probing into the secrets of Solaris proved to be futile.
بر روی این سیاره یک اقیانوس هوشمند وجود دارد.
کلوین هنگام ورود به سیاره با پدیده ای عجیب رو به رو میشود.
اگر یادم مانده باشد، جایی در همین کتاب نوشته بود: هر دانش حقیقی همواره یک دانش حرامزاده در کنار خود دارد.
Proprio per riuscire a capire nasce la Solaristica, scienza che si dedica alo studio di questo particolare pianeta.Chris, psicologo e scienziato, si è preparato a lungo per questa spedizione ma quando arriva alla base spaziale di Solaris è subito chiaro che qualcosa non va per il verso giusto.Una lettura che inquieta nella misura in cui al si vede palesemente come metafora filosofica dell'esistenza.
L'uomo con il suo innato spirito dominatore si è spinto nello spazio cercando di stabilire un contatto non rendendosi conto che non si può comunicare con altri esseri quando sulla Terra stessa le relazioni sono difficili.”Siamo umanitari e nobili, non abbiamo intenzione di conquistare altre razze, vogliamo solo trasmettere i nostri valori e in cambio impadronirci del loro patrimonio.
"Nisam znao nista ostajuci u nepokolebljivoj veri da nije proslo vreme okrutnih cuda." "Ono finis vitae sed non amoris." - Kraj života nije i kraj ljubavi (lat.).
La caduta della ragione "Ti prego, fa che il tempo dei miracoli crudeli non sia finito."Alla fine ch
This fact alone invalidated that category of Solarist theories which claimed that the ocean was an 'introverted' world, a 'hermit entity,' deprived by a process of degeneration of the thinking organs it once possessed, unaware of the existence of external objects and events, the prisoner of a gigantic vortex mental currents created and confined in the depths of this monster revolving around two suns.A head hunched over in shame.
I felt the weight on his head before he goes to sleep and before she pop goes the weasel into the atmosphere of his consciousness."A normal man," he said.
Kris goes into the thinking man's pose.
