https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/511527.Double_Act
Oh, what I will read in the chase for that elusive and dubious honour of having read all the BBC's Big Read books.
(I have 13 more to go!) If not for that, I probably never would have discovered Jacqueline Wilson - I missed these books when I was young, and they're not the sort of things I would have otherwise stumbled upon as an adult.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
His form of selfishness is just a bit more subtle than the likes of Sue from Diamond Girls, or Tracy Beaker's mum Carly.Throughout the entire book it's clear that Richard is going through a sort-of early-onset mid-life crisis.
If the twins become TV actors, they'll spend a good chunk of the summer holidays away filming, which will act as a temporary measure until she figures out how to get rid of them permanently.She encourages them when Ruby announces her plan to go to the audition with Garnet, only it is Richard who foils everything this time.
Read as part of The Infinite Variety Reading Challenge, based on the BBC's Big Read Poll of 2003.Better than her other tripe but still a bit naff. Full review to follow.Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Pinterest | Shop | Etsy
I got this book as a Christmas present from my mother.
It was kind of a joke because I have a twin sister and my mother knows I like to read a lot.
I can imagine I would have liked it a lot when I was younger.
It did have some parts that annoyed me, like the girls sneaking out on their own in order to audition for a tv-show.
I get the point, though, because as the story progresses both girls seem to grow up and accept themselves as they are.
This would be a good book for middle-grade readers and especially for twins, of course.
I love Jacqueline Wilson books because they don't shy away from real life. She gets deals with real things many kids go through on a daily basis, in an easy to understand way and accessible way. This book is about identity. How to be yourself when you are considered by all (even yourself) to be inextricably part of a pair. This is true for all relationships - not just the identical twin stars of this book. It also touches on a new member joining a family (after a loss). As an adult reader I was not only entertained, but informed.
It was a lovely story about two twin sisters and their little adventures together. Close to the end of the book the story took a big turn that was very sudden but it was very satisfying. I would definitely recommend reading this book. It's short and fun with a sweet message delivered to the reader.
Read when i was very young. Was nice to read again.
Double act by Jacqueline WilsonThis book is about two young twins Ruby (the lively confident one) and Garnet ( the shy quiet one).
The girls hate rosie and do not treat her with respect at all.Ruby dreams of being an actress one day and sees an add in a paper for twins to take part in a commercial held in london, however Garnet dosent want to persue a career in showbiz, she prefers to studying.
Having failed the audition ruby decides that she wants to go to boarding school because of the stage and velvet curtains, but Garnet is not so keen.
I am a big Jacqueline Wilson fan and as a child read her books continuously, over and over again.
The twins Ruby and Garnet hate her the first time she sees her, which is when their dad brings her home to have tea, out off the blue and their Nan tried her best to be nice to Rose.
Ruby and Garnet hate the idea, that means that they will have to change schools and they will have to live with Rose.
Jacqueline Wilson is an excellent writer and she makes her books fun and easy to understand.
I really enjoyed this book when I was going through my Jackie Wilson phase.
I think I perhaps read it four or five times throughout my childhood and early teenage years.
Wilson is an expert at creating realistic characters and is probably the closest thing you can get to actual being inside a child's mind yourself.
Wilson tackles difficult topics that sadly affect a lot of children, such as bereavement, domestic abuse and divorce.
I believe all young children, and particularly girls, should read Wilson's work.
My first book review is on Jacquline Wilson’s Double Act. As a child I was never a big fan of the Jacquline Wilson books; I found her “matter-of-fact” attitude towards reality somewhat bleak.
I was therefore pleasantly surprised that I thoroughly enjoyed reading the Double Act. The Double Act is about ten year old identical twins Ruby and Garnet who are exactly the same!
They look the same, act the same and weigh the same and yet their personalities are very different.
A great read for KS2 students; the story of Garnet and Ruby is a brilliant example of how to overcome the problems of everyday life.
Wilson is great at making realistic characters that you can quickly come to term with, giving realistic reactions to events.Her books are great at getting children to really think about actions and their consequences, really opening the eyes of children to the world. Some of her books are sensitive reads yet they are all great at sending life messages to children.I feel as though Wilson books are a must in the lives of young children, a way of opening their eyes to the real world in the right way.
I love this book so much, it really shows different personalities and can teach younger children to not let their differences with their friends or family get in the way of achieving their dreams.
Wilson (alongside Dahl and Blyton) is the perfect go-to for this type of behaviour.Although I probably read this in a fraction of the time it would have taken me twenty (ouch) years ago, it absolutely hasn’t lost its gorgeous charm.
Richard is an absolute villain, and although the twins hate him for finding a new girlfriend after their mum’s death, and dragging them away from their home and school to live in a new area, Wilson doesn’t quite make bold his villainy.
Un libro muy interesante acerca de dos gemelas y su familia. Los personajes principales muestran muy claramente su personalidad y son divertidas y vivarachas. En algunos momentos es un libro triste, pero muy interesante para niñ@s a partir de 8 años aproximadamente. Como pega (bajo mi humilde opinion), el hecho de que sea una traducción fiel a los escenarios y culturas inglesas. Al ser tan fiel al original, algunos detalles o localizaciones se escapan a l@s lector@s de esa edad y a cualquiera que no conozca la cultura y costumbres británicas. Aún así, estoy bien trabajado y conseguido.
double act is a vibrant, witty story written story about two twins named Ruby and Garnet. Ruby is bossy, lively and brilliant, and Garnet is more meek and mild, but very kind and incredibly caring and careful. I would only recommend this book to a friend, because it is funny and well written.

Ruby is the oldest twin and Garnet is younger.
Ruby likes to act and Garnet doesn't.
Ruby read on the newspaper that two girl twins are wanted for a show.
Ruby got all excited and told Garnet, but Garnet didn't really want to act but she had to.
Next, they saw a school they liked and they wanted to go to it, but once again, their dad said no.
Garnet promised to write to Ruby everyday and Ruby did too!!!This book was just like my life,except that Ruby and Garnet were twins and my sister and I are normal sisters!!!
Ruby and Garnet Barker are ten year old identical twins who live with their dad and grandmother following the death of their mother.
This followed by a sudden move to the country and a change of school leaves the girls, especially Ruby determined not to accept and to blame Rose.
After the girls apply to an exclusive boarding school to escape their new situation, things once again chance dramatically and we are left wondering can they really stay inseparable forever.
We see an example of a modern day family and are left feeling that we ourselves have a personal connection to Ruby and Garnet.
As a fan of Jaqueline Wilson's books, Double Act is one of my favorites.
The twin shown in the book Double Act has grown up basically living the exact same way and thought they needed to be the same for everything.
She changes herself to become different, and they both learn to be mature enough to say, "We are best friends", even after going through one of the greatest changes in their lives.
Sisters are rivals, but at the same time, they are best friends of yours.
Double Act follows the lives of identical twins Ruby and Garnet Barker.
Sadly, Ruby and Garnet's mum died when they were little so they live with their Dad and Nan which they love.
However, when Dad gets a new girlfriend Rose they move to the country and open a bookshop which the girls hate, but not as much as they hate Rose!
However, the girls soon make up and embrace their new split identities.This book is one of my childhood favourites, and always made me wish I was a twin.
While the title of this book is 'Double Act' both Ruby and Garnet could not be more different.
Ruby is loud, lively and ambitious.
Garnet is quiet, clever and thoughtful.
The Girls mother died when they were young and so they live with their Dad and their Gran.
Their father has a new girlfriend Rose who the girls really don't warm to.
While Ruby is desperate to succeed as an actress, Garnet is excited to go to boarding school.
Wilson does a great job conveying both the girls personalities and it's extremely fun and enjoyable for ages 8+
Double Act by Jacqueline Wilson is about ten year old identical twins called Ruby and Garnet.
These twins do quite literally everything together, however since the death of their mother things are constantly changing around them.
In the story Dad meets a new woman and the girls find themselves having to adapt to the changes of moving house and making friends in a new a school.
The girls find themselves coping with these changes differently and begin to question whether being a double act will really last forever.
This is a book about two twins.
One of the twins is very smart her name is Garnet and the other is called Ruby.
There are very few people that can tell them apart.
When they were babies their mother passed away.
A few years later their Dad meets up with a woman named Rose.
The twins hate her, and so does their gran.
Ruby & Garnet adore their gran but one day they had to leave her and they were very upset and angered by this.
They plot to see the back of Rose.
The book is action-packed and exciting.
The cover of the book is brightly coloured which made me pick it up as I thought it looked a fun book to read.
The story is about a set of twins and their life and what they think and feel.
Although they are very different in how they dress and how they think they support each other and have been through a great deal together.
I think it can be read by 9-15 year olds.
I like the way that not all the pages are full of words and have really great pictures.
I think this is a top book to read and I highly recommend it.
This one was okay but not too memorable to me. I didn't really like the back and forth twin dialouge. I think I would have rather heard the story from Garnet's p.o.v. But as usual I loved the illustrations.
This is definitely a book that I don't think transcends age ranges unlike some other children's books. I didn't really like the characters and although the morals and messages were strong, I didn't enjoy this book.
I thought this book was very good because it wasn't to long and each chapter they had something exciting. I liked how it didn't have to many characters because it becomes to complicated. I liked how the ending ended up being happy and they finally separate and both do something without their twin.
This book is amazing you should read it.
jajn fnh rgggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyywwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaarrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr
