https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/285563.Native_Tongue
It has been discovered that the only way to communicate with humanoid aliens is to have them send a representative who will interact with a human infant, until that infant picks up the alien language as its 'native tongue.' Only the babies of thirteen Linguist families, who all live in communal houses on Earth, are trained to this important work.
We don't know how a single alien thinks; what their cultures want, or how or why they are sending representatives to Earth to teach babies their languages.
(view spoiler)[I really wanted it all to end with the women speaking the new language, and making all the men 'blow up' like the baby did.
Absolutely excellent. I know The Handmaid's Tale gets more press and praise, but this is a far more realistic and chilling misogynist future. There's really so much meaty stuff, and I'm so far from eloquent, that I'll just say read it and leave it at that.
Noting the passing last week of Suzette Haden Elgin: linguist, verbal self-defense teacher, feminist genre writer, & founder of the Science Fiction Poetry Association.
Elgin holds a Ph.D in linguistics, and Native Tongue plays on the idea that human languages themselves, used for countless years in a patriarchal context, are indeed major tools of female repression.
It’s more than a little hard to swallow women losing all powers of majority by the end of the 20th century!— though these fears offer a historic value from the height of the Reagan era.Another potential drawback is while Native Tongue's narrative threads end more or less satisfactorily, Elgin leaves the implications of “what next” in the overthrow of the old world order open.
It's simple: All women are good (even the one lady who systematically kills people), all men are bad (even the one guy who appeared to treat a female character like she was equal in intellect and status).
I am all for that notion, ladyface!The problem with all this is that Elgin really believes - IN REAL LIFE - that women should have a language separate from men.
But, women are not the only other in any conceivable reality, and sometimes, even if they are the other in one reality, they may be the elite, ruling, mainstream in another (in Elgin's case, see: female linguists v.
Women have no rights and are the property of men.
The women of the Lines, as restricted and patronized as any other women, have developed a secret language for women only.
Elgin created an actual 'women's language' called Laadan which is still active today, and I think, like Tolkien, the language came before the story.It's interesting that current reviews on amazon refer to the book as dated and several people say it's history and things are not like this today.
Well, things may be better, or we at least have the concept they should be better, but this is not dated.
I'll never forgive the university professors who made me read this novel. Some of the sci-fi elements in it were interesting and it posed some compelling linguistic questions but mostly it was just tiresome. The majority of the narrative is the kind heavy-handed man-hating that has done more to hurt the cause of feminism than further it. Every man in the novel is a cowardly, misogynistic tyrant while every woman is a long-suffering, angelic saint. I found the whole thing simply tedious.
4.5 stars. Excellent story with well drawn characters (both male and female) and an original premise. Recommended!!
Parts of the feminism were so ridiculous that after a while I was like God I get it, women's lives suck in your future!
Women are considered minors in this crappy future, and can't hold jobs or buy anything without their husband's say so.
So this book is basically the shitty Dark Ages but in the future.
Lots of alien languages are part of this future, coincidentally, but very few actual aliens.The thesis put forth is basically - language is empowering.
What's more empowering than a language meant just for women?Edit: OH MY GOD IT'S A TRILOGY.
If the languages are being learnt by babies and toddlers, how do they become so proficient in all the vocabulary and cultural nuances that never come up in the conversations of babies and toddlers?And if Teenager Y is the only person in the universe (apart from a couple of toddlers) who speaks both X and English - where do the dictionaries come from that the second-best backups look things up in?And how (view spoiler)[ when the men towards the end spotted all the 'charming concepts' the little girls were coming up with, did those men know what the girls were talking about, if the girls were talking in Laadan?
The stuff about language reminds me a lot of 1984 and the Newspeak dictionary--the idea that taking away words for certain concepts or creating/encoding words for others can change the way people think and behave and affect whether they have the capacity to rebel against an authoritarian regime.The book's biggest flaw is gender essentialism.
The book seems to advocate creating a women's world and women's language that totally writes off all men as irredeemable.
(Although despite that, all the characters in the book also seem to be heterosexual, which is a whole other issue).That said, it's still a great and fascinating read.
[Update Feb 2015: SHE has passed away. http://catherineldf.livejournal.com/2...]I've been seeing the sequel to this book in my public library (a ratty paperback) since I was a kid, and wanted to read it, but have never found the first volume.
When your novel starts with a board meeting, you know you're in for a real thrill ride.
I feel like this was written by an author with good ideas and solid linguistic knowledge, but no real feel for writing fiction.
Does this have value, as the essay in my edition* claims, as a feminist document?
In 1984 when this was published, I was too busy being the biggest feminist in my fourth-grade class to really relate to what the author is talking about.
Of course, the 1980s were a foul decade, and maybe people needed more reassurance back then.*By the way, this edition had so many typos in it, you would not believe it.
This fiction is one of the more masterful pieces of literature of the 20th century.
The book is engrossing; the plot is multilayered; the concept is unique; and the characters are easy to understand.On the surface it's about learning to communicate with life forms so alien, it requires human children to interact with aliens during the child's language forming years.
A secondary plot line deals with the continued struggle between man and woman.
Underlying all that is a theme dealing with freedom of speech.This book has me scrabbling for every novel Ms. Elgin brings out.
The idea that a language can influence culture and behavior, and ultimately the outcome of history is really brilliant.
However, the author fails to take this brilliant idea beyond the concept.
The plot drags, the storytelling is boring, the characterizations are flat, and the flow is cumbersome.There are so many flaws in this story.
The author doesn't give any single character any type of profound thoughts that would add to the character development.
You can sum up the male thought processes in four words: "Man smart.
Woman dumb." You can sum up the women's thought processes in five words: "Male species=Rapist baby-killers.
The story drags horrendously.
Other reviewers have noted the chracter traits seem to line up positively and negatively along gender lines, and I think Haden Elgin was conscious enough of trying to avoid that to introduce some (underdeveloped) outliers to offset that criticism.
(Haden Elgin was writing more than two decades ago, which makes her observations that much more damning.) I kept reading past my fatigue with the writer's cliches and the flawed central premise, that linguists had somehow become an almost genetically insular group of "Lines," because the book really engages with its ideas, and the ideas are provocative.
The premise of this book is intriguing - a future where a combination of alien contact and patriarchal rule has led to a subculture of women-centered linguistics. Sadly, focuses mostly on the male perspective, never makes the world believable, and never really delves into the "revolutionary" idea of a female language.
La historia de Lengua materna nos presenta un mundo futurista en el que la mujer ha perdido todo derecho.
Las mujeres están sometidas completamente a los caprichos del hombre y son poco más que objetos para el uso y disfrute de éstos.
Todo este entorno opresor convivirá con una sociedad ubicada aproximádamente en el 2200, con grandes avances tecnológicos.
Los lingos no son otra cosas que lingüistas.
Un idioma creado por mujeres para mujeres.El libro me ha gustado mucho.
Los personajes feméninos son increíbles.
Ahora tendré que leer las otras partes.
Representa demasiado bien la sociedad en la que podríamos acabar si no se lucha.
Not that this wasn't one of the better examples of both that I've read recently, but I realized as I was reading that doesn't mean much.I picked this book up because I wanted to try to more linguistic scifi and I had some hope because the author was a linguistics professor.
I had high hopes that this wouldn't be yet another book that relied on an outdated and largely discredited linguistic theory known as Sapir-Whorf (the strong version).
Seriously, this is a bad enough theory that I found someone suggesting this book be read as fantasy.
It’s a damn shame this feminist science fiction cult classic trilogy is out of print today. Elgin was a linguist, and this novel explores a world where women’s rights have been revoked, but the birth of a women’s language may change everything. Also ALIENS! Native Tongue is not a subtle book but it is a fascinating one, narratively, historically (2nd Wave feminism, Moral Majority), and in how it interacts with linguistic theory. I’m really looking forward to reading the rest of the trilogy.
I suppose you could relate this to the loss of rights of any minority, but it is still very hard to believe.I think I almost like the idea of language gathering at infancy, though the result of this is that children are forced into work at very young ages because the knowledge they acquire is so valuable an asset.
I can’t say I believe that humans could self-destruct from simply being forced to try and perceive something non-humanoid, but it does provide a stark view of “government work” and tolerances for cruelty when someone says do it and we don’t care how.It raises the question of would reality actually change with a new language to describe it.
A group of women, led by Nazareth, create a new language as an act of resistance.
I assisted to this conference where Mrs Elgin, inventor of the Laadan, and John Ford, inventor (at least, one of the inventors) of the Klingon discussed the very different destinies of the invented languages.
But the idea of the use of the language to express feminine, and other new ideas and concept.
Where the Novlang diminished the number and variety of words to express concepts, Laadan make them bloom and multiply.
the first chapter with Michaela Landry gave me CHILLS- the fact that all linguist children learn to sign!The things I disliked (or wish she explored more)-- the slow pace of the book and how everything only really took place at the end (much of the government plot and the more man-centric chapters seemed unnecessary to me)...- the last chapter didn't leave me with what I wanted, to be honest...
The main thrust of the book follows the efforts of a group of female linguists to create a language for women that will change their oppressed position in life.Some interesting concepts here—it isn't surprising that the author, a linguist, has put more thought into the potential challenges of communicating with aliens than most sci-fi authors bother with.
But I found the men vs women main thread mostly tedious.
I also have difficulty with the main premise here: that a language for women would solve the problems with patriarchy.
The feminist angle is laid on pretty thick, and as such there are parts which angered me quite a bit, but once I got past the first few chapters that started to fade away as the plot gained momentum.
Their subversive plot to gain independence through language is original and exciting, and the book as a whole is unlike anything I've encountered previously.Haven't read the two follow-up books to this, and I doubt I will - according to people whose opinions I trust, they are an embarrassment compared to this classic.
A nice concept, badly executed. From reading this I got the image of the author sitting behind a typewriter bashing the keys while screaming 'All men are bastards!' over and over again.Besides that, the dystopian society is just not very well realised. Why are women second class citizens? *shrug* As far as I remember, it isn't mentioned. I would have to assume it's because all men are bastards.Having more of the language in the actual book would have been nice. For a good feminist dystopian story, read The Handmaid's Tale. This is mediocre.
I can't review this book until my friends in the Feminist group have finished it!!
Elgin's goal with this book, and its sequels, seems to me to be a misguided one because we don't live in a society like the one she portrays in this book, but the story she built around this concept is told with sly humor and just enough nods to pulpy sci-fi tropes to reel in unsuspecting readers with its bold political message.
A lot of the negative reviews of this book online question the plausibility of the society the book portrays.
I also see a lot of negative reviews harping on Elgin not being the right kind of feminist.
I read this for a class on feminist literature.
which, of course, led to great conversation in a classroom setting but hindered my interest in the novel (even though I usually love feminist books).
Sure, there are several voices being used as first person narrators throughout the novel — and that’s usually okay — but I felt that Elgin was sloppy with the way she executed it...
to the point where at the end of the novel I felt that I missed out on the character-reader bond I usually get from a good book.
Despite these issues, I still enjoyed reading this book for class and especially the conversations that came from it.
I am boggled by the fact that this book isn't ranked alongside 1984 or The Handmaid's Tale for excellent dystopic future novels.Why do I like it so much?I think a big part of it was the elegance with which the world is constructed for the reader.
It's quite an easy, seamless even, immersion into the world of the novel.
And then I think it's a great Feminist read which is perhaps more delightfully droll than other similar books I've read.
There's a certain wittiness to it, and an edge of resilience and subversion in the women of the novel that was great to read.
It's not an easy read. I had problem reading it, especially first half was dragging on and on for me. I didn't find this whole concept of liberating women through language all that interesting. It's probably me, not the book, though. Reading afterword was quite interesting, but it also made me sure the book is over-political. I don't think I will read remaining two parts of the trilogy, simply not my cup of tea. Even though linguistics are fascinating, this book isn't.
