https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/82970.Lucky
This is the first line in Lucky, Alice Sebold's memoir of her rape and its aftermath.
In comparison, they said, I was lucky...But at the time, I felt I had more in common with the dead girl than I did with the large, beefy police officers or my stunned freshman-year girlfriends.
I will think of a girl in the last moments of her life.Since Lucky was published back in 1999, Alice Sebold has gone on to great fame and fortune as the author of The Lovely Bones.
If you come by this book, it's probably for one of two reasons: first, you liked The Lovely Bones; second, you have a personal need for Sebold's insights.
Robinson di Repubblica ne ha anticipato un ampio stralcio.Comincia così, con rara potenza:Sono passati trentasei anni da quando sono stata violentata, diciotto dalla prima edizione di Lucky, e solo due mesi da quando un molestatore seriale nonché orgoglioso palpeggiatore di figa è stato eletto quarantacinquesimo presidente di questi Stati Uniti.Foto di Silvia Camporesi.Prosegue così, con altrettanta potenza:L’amara verità è questa: se potessi avere una gomma magica e cancellare quella notte del 1981, lo farei in un batter d’occhio, e se potessi dire a qualunque ragazza o ragazzo violentato da un parente che rispetto a lui o a lei sono stata davvero fortunata, lo avrei già fatto.
In Lucky, Alice Sebold recounts the night she was raped and how that event and its consequences reverberated throughout her life.
The first chapter of this book made me feel ill, so major warning to readers that there is intense detail about rape and assault right from the very start.
However, I thought Sebold's frankness was very important to her story.
This book made me furious and sad, and for good reason.
And, like the book and ill-spoken words of the police officers said of Sebold, she was relatively 'lucky' with her situation.
Of course, no one raped is ever lucky.
Even though what happened to me was not violent, nor did I report it, I still went through many of the emotions, inner dialogue, and relationship changes and challenges Alice went through in the long aftermath, and I really enjoyed comparing the similarities and differences in our experiences.
But Sebold does depict the range of reactions, and sometimes I find her responses to the "bad reactors" a little curt, like she was built more for emotional survival than I was -- or maybe it is the other way around?In any case, as a survivor, and having also read 'The Lovely Bones' and enjoying Sebold's style, this was a great read for me.
I think that as the book went on, it wasn’t so much a direct ‘I was raped’ story but more of a day to day life after with all the idiosyncrasies and patterns that emerge that drew me in.
I would find myself not being able to put the book down during the time between the rape and the trial, watching Alice justify her actions and her drinking and not even commenting on the fact that it was an escape mechanism.
But, following the trial, I was in that sort of valley stage, which, I suppose, is how life goes and it took me a bit longer to get through that.
what i love about this book is that sebold doesn't fall into the normal tradition of "victim" memoirs.
she accepts that this horrible thing happened to her, and then she tells her story of how she pulled herself out of the hole, how she fought against being a victim, how she fought with herself.
she doesn't take too much blame, and she doesn't push it off on others - it's the story of someone who has adjusted, who has had something horrible happened to them and come out on top.
It wasn't the subject because I've read books on this subject matter before but it drove me crazy how everything in her life, every moment became about her rape.
During the rape she made a vow that it would be apart of her forever and she kept it.
She even took credit for a police officers promotion because of her rape case.
I kept reading it in hopes that it would get better.
This book has very little to do with surviving rape and reads more of a detail of her trial and hatred for her family and herself.
Alice is brutally raped and beaten she struggles as much as she can, but is threatened by her attacker that he will kill her is she doesn't do as she is told.After the attack she must deal with the aftermath of the trauma she has just endured.
After reporting it to the police she must find the strength to go ahead with legal proceedings.This is a very harrowing true story and one in which is quite difficult to read at times.
The graphic, painful and disturbing details may be hard to read, but I feel it's a remarkable story of someone who finds the strength to survive such a horrific ordeal and continues to thrive and love again.
Brilliant.
I was hooked from the first paragraph of the foreword but I had a very difficult time getting though the first chapter, where Sebold's rape was described in excrutiating detail.
Remembering this is a memoir, it made me physically ill.
I really admire the guts this woman has...she went right back to Syracuse and went on with her life, determined to get justice for what happened and reclaim her identity to be more than "that girl who was raped".
The people in her life from her family to her friends, insist on treating Sebold as a victim and she obviously didn't want that role.
An absorbing memoir about a college girl who was raped. The book covers the rape, the trial, and the very long recovery. Rape is an ugly and isolating act and the author takes you as close to it as is possible for someone never having experienced the trauma. It will take me awhile to get this story out of my head.
Alice Sebold molti di voi probabilmente l’assoceranno ad Amabili Resti , libro che ne ha decretato il successo.
Lucky è tutt’altro, Lucky non è per tutti ,Lucky è una storia vera .
Niente parole inutili o preamboli , il tema trattato è uno stupro.
Alice ripercorre il maggio del 1981 e i 10 anni successivi , affronta il prima e il dopo e le varie ricadute e le sofferenze quotidiane, ma questa storia risulta difficile da digerire .
“ Perché se resta anonima , la mia storia è solo una storia , non la realtà “ .
Women's stories of their trauma aren't being told, their being sold. Here's a shining example.
I mean, the funny thing is that I did write the beginning of The Lovely Bones before I wrote my memoir, so the violent crime that occurs in Susie's life happened, in terms of writing about it, before a description of my own rape was written by me later.
And one of the things that was very important for me to do was to get all the facts of my own case down, so they had been written, they existed whole in a whole other book, and I could go back to Susie and she could lead me where she wanted to take me and tell me her story in the way she wanted to tell it, as opposed to me feeling perhaps that I needed to really tell the real deal about every dtail of rape and violence.
It took me awhile to read this book, mostly because I had so little time, but I loved it.
It was like reading my own story.
I was so proud of how she stood up to her attacker, and always wished I could have.
The time period was exactly the same, so it was eerily the same in a lot of ways.
I also grew up in Syracuse, so I knew all the locations quite well and felt her story even more, if that's possible.
You have a life before and a life after, and it's never the same again, no matter how hard you try.
I actually got the rest of the book as an audiobook (got to Chapter 3 via online excerpts) and listened to Sebold herself narrate the story of how, when she was an 18 year old virgin coed at Syracuse University, she was brutalized, beaten, and viciously raped and sodomized one night on her way home.
I have to admit - I couldn't finish this book.
Rarely do I not finish a book, but I just couldn't with this one.
I know that's true - I can never understand - but I'm reading this book to try to understand what it's like, and it's the job of the author to use her gift of words to explain it to me.
It felt more like she was writing the book in order to provide herself with a type of therapy, rather than to spread understanding to the reader.
I read Lucky not long after it was released. Alice Sebold deserves credit for her sometimes graphic but realistic description of her horrible experience. I would have hoped that writing this book would have allowed her to get it out of her system so that she could move on with her life. Evidently, this is not the case. >> http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...
As a grad student at Syracuse, this book definitely hits close to home.
I feel that The Lovely Bones is really just a metaphor for this, the author's real experience with her rape as a college freshman at SU.
I love the recognition and legitimacy of hatred in the author's recovery.
And yet Nancy Cantor is still all about her connective corridor so the ghettos of Syracuse can have direct access to the Univeristy.
How about you conduct your social experiments in your own living room instead of using clueless 18-22 year old kids as your petri dish???
Я прочла ее за день, мне точно нужно отдышаться и хлопнуть стакан коньяка
It follows the life of the author after she suffers the brutality of a terrible rape.
Sebold is very blunt about what happened to her, to a point that it's difficult to read at times.
The most fascinating thing about the book, however, is reading what happened to Sebold as she got further and further from this defining event in her life.
I enjoyed reading this book to a certain point.
I never imagined that rape itself was not the worst part of such an event.
Instead, it's all the horrible things you have to endure after the rape that make it so difficult to bear.
Penso di non possedere parole appartenenti al mio vocabolario con cui descrivere questo libro che è tagliente e doloroso ma é uno di quei romanzi che tutti dovrebbero leggere e lo dico non solo in quanto donna ma, prima ancora, in quanto essere umano.
Più volte viene ripetuto come il processo di Alice sia stato uno dei rari casi di vittoria proprio perché la vittima poteva 'vantare' di essere vergine e di essere vestita in modo casto quando la violenza avvenne.
Per tutti gli ignoranti che hanno risposto si allora dovrebbero leggere questo libro, perché la violenza sessuale non è giustificabile, mai.
It was interesting reading this true story after "The Lovely Bones" (this was her first published book) as now I see where her obsession with interlacing violence with the mundane world comes from.
I didn't feel the terror, the anguish, the paranoia but instead felt as if I were in fact at the police station going endlessly over the episode.
When I think of it, that's sort of how she describes the rape/murder of the little girl in LB; perhaps that distance is what a victim needs to relay the incident but the reader experiences it as a distasteful, rotten piece of fruit (the raper apologizes and cries afterward) and fails to communicate how it lacerated her sense of self.
DNFI’ve said this before about memoirs, and I’ll say it again…they need to be believable.
If you tell me something, which I doubt very much to be true, then I’m going to take it that the whole book is a fabrication.Page 13 on my laptop…“He began to knead his fist against the opening of my vagina.
Inserted his fingers into it, three or four at a time.
Something tore.
I began to bleed there.
I was wet now.It made him excited.
As he worked his whole fist up into my vagina and pumped it…”I don’t believe it!
It also takes time.
My reading of this book is most likely affected by that article.
Sebold's story starts with an act that despite its violence, its illegality, is simple.
Sebold's graphic description of her rape makes the reader at once a unwilling quasi voyager while shattering and subverting all the romance novel fantasies.The complex follows afterward as Sebold details not only her reaction, but those of the police, the lawyers, her friends, her family, her community's (both college and home) reaction to her rape.
No, I'm not talking about just where rape is used as punishment or where women are killed by thier family or where women get thier virginity tested upon arrest.
Nor does she to want the reader's admiration or liking or, more importantly, pity.
The first line of the book: “This is what I remember…”The last line (implied): “This is what I’ll never forget…”“The Lovely Bones” was how I first heard of Alice Sebold, first the movie, and then the book.
Now that I’ve read it, I think this worked as some closure for her.Because I was so shocked, I never got past the first few pages of the book, and kept putting it aside for some other time.
While I was reading this book I kept thinking I was inside a nightmare, and once I woke up I’d be free… but am I really?
I was with her most of the way, but the part towards the end where her friend is raped really, really bothered me -- at that point the story, for me, stopped being a straightforward account of "this is my rape, this is my trial, this is what happened to me" and started to get, as one commenter below wrote angrily, holier-than-thou.
The "Aftermath" section didn't work for me at all -- too choppy, too "look what a bad girl I turned into." Disappointing end to what had started off as a powerful narrative.
One of the most fascinatingly written novels I've ever read. Alice Sebold goes into such brilliant detail about everything, and really elongates things she finds most valid and/or important. It's a must read!
I thought I had a fair understanding of how rape affects victims, but after reading this book, I feel humbled by how little I really knew.
From there, she describes with painful honesty how being raped affected her, how beyond the PTSD, it “tainted” her, like a communicable disease.The treatment Ms. Seibold received in the aftermath of this crime will make you flinch, from police officers (one of whom, speaking of his niece who had likewise been a rape victim, cried, “She’s ruined!
(view spoiler)[If so, then I suppose the subsequent rape of Ms. Sebold’s college housemate, perhaps as revenge for her having criminally prosecuted her attacker, could be labeled as such.
It wouldn’t do justice to Lucky to call it a “rape memoir.” Though the events of the book cycle around Sebold’s rape she experienced as a college freshman, in a broader context her story deals with social attitudes and crime/justice.
It takes a gifted writer to make brutal events into captivating memoirs; in stories that deal with a single trauma, first-person accounts tend to be so caught up feelings of aggression or grief that the emotions take precedence over the writing itself.
I originally bought this book for research.
Sebold's story is the account of her own rape.
It's a story every woman (and man) should read.
Although I'm happy I found this book, I'm so sorry it had to be written.
Thank you, Ms. Sebold for your courage to stand up to your assailant and for having the guts to put your story out there for the world to read.
I know you consider yourself LUCKY.
And women everywhere are LUCKY to have people like you to stand up for those who, like Lila, can't find the strength to do so.
