https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1449309.Proposed_Roads_to_Freedom
A certain percentage, guided by personal ambition, make the effort of thought and will which is necessary to place themselves among the more fortunate members of the community; but very few among these are seriously concerned to secure for all the advantages which they seek for themselves.
It is only a few rare and exceptional men who have that kind of love toward mankind at large that makes them unable to endure patiently the general mass of evil and suffering, regardless of any relation it may have to their own lives", to me this theory is quite true.Generally this is a rather interesting philosophical read I think it also deserves a place on my 're-read' shelf.
Once invited Richard Stallman to give a course on Eliademy.com, he titles it "The road to digital freedom" now I found from where he got his inspiration....Russell. A book in favoure of pure anarchism but also pragmatic that is Utopic to seek such system, thus "socialism" is the 3rd way and the easiest to achieve. A good book and good arguments.
I've read Russell's work before and his philosophical background also led me to believe there would be an emphasis on the theories, and perhaps intellectual history of each of the movements as well.What I got instead was a brief but unimpressive overview of a few movements, usually already well trodden ground, and then Russell's own opinions which were somewhere between being a realistic progressive and a full blown utopian.You do get an acceptable introduction to socialism, syndicalism and anarchism, along with some coverage of contemporary politics which of course aged badly and I was hoping would be skipped over in exchange for a more theory heavy analysis.While I was underwhelmed overall I have to admit it was interesting going over Russell's opinions on how close we can get to achieving utopia.
This is great for a historic look back at these philosophies. This was written almost one hundred years ago, so the implications of these different philosophies has changed over the years, but we need to know where we have been to figure out where we are going.
This is an excellent little book promoting a form of guild socialism, as opposed to state socialism or pure anarchism.
It's probably the most anti-utopian, anti-idealist account of a socialist society I've yet read (which isn't to say that it doesn't have its moments).
The one major complaint I have is that when it comes to economic distribution and production Russell glosses over any apparent problems in his conception of socialism as purely "technical" problems.
He seems to have an undue optimism in this regard and, accordingly, minimizes the very substantial nature any averse consequences would have in the practicability of a socialist society.
Everyone should read this book.
Cringe inducing sections on "inferior races" and a lot of arguments for a "vagabond wage"/universal basic income at the poverty line.
This is my introduction to Russell and his writings, and the book provides a worth while overview of a subject I am deeply interested in.
I am always interested by the philosophical, sociological, and political, but this book touches on the subjects of anarchism and socialism of which I am an adherent.
It touches on these, and basically provides an overview of these ideas, without getting into too much depth.
Although, he doesn't go into much depth on this subject alone, since this is an overview of a large chunk of competing ideas in the anarchist and socialist viewpoints.
This was a concise, yet abstract vision from Bertrand Russell.
Favoring what some would call "Anarchist - Guild Socialism", Russell Fleshes out with precise detail, the shortfalls and possibilities of the realms associated with socialism and anarchism (in its many various forms).
Russell makes use of familiar examples and reasonable rhetorical experiments in an attempt to paint a picture of what the difference between utopian and reality actually is, all in regards of supposed and proposed roads to freedom.
Without favoring one road or another, Russell takes his time to compare, contrast, and subject his personal insight into what the future of industrial societies may hold.
In typical Russell fashion, a critical account of even the positions he's in favour of. A hundred years after its publication, the reader will likely be shocked to learn just how big anarcho-syndicalism was in the early twentieth century.
Unha xoia ben argumentada e clara.
They have revived the quest for liberty which has grown somewhat dimmed under the regime of parliamentary socialism and they have reminded men that what are modern society needs is not a little tinkering key here and there nor the kind of minor readjustments to which the existing holder of power may consent but fundamental reconstruction, a sweeping away of all the sources of oppression, a liberation of men, constructive energies and holly new way of conceiving and regularly reproduction and economic relation." As i see from the above quotes that the syndicalism only cares about the worker not the employer.
Unfortunately what i see is that Anarchism is supposing that man is naturally good.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book as an academic overview of socialism, anarchism, and syndicalism.
As much as I commend Russell for his respect and careful consideration of a social revolution, the book kept surprising me by reminding me of the time it was written in and the identity of who wrote it.
In terms of gender, Russell is surprisingly vocal about the equality and education of women (although I cannot claim to know how much he followed what he spoke of).
He believes women should be paid for domestic labour, and that all men and women should be educated equally.
Russel discusses these two ideologies, following the socialist Marx with his economic analysis , and the divide between him and the anarchists such as Bakunin and Kropotkin.
Russel Overviews different forms of socialism - useful least of all because it can demonstrates to the uninformed that socialism is not some monolithic ideology but a diverse array of principles and worldviews.
He critiques some of the different forms, including the authoritarian marxism that was on the rise.
In addition to discussing and critiquing ideologies, he also prescribes his own idea for what ideals should guide us on the road to freedom.
The first part of the book, that explains the differences between the listed ideologies, was good.
I feel like anyone who doesn’t know the basics of these would find it helpful.
It lost me in the last few chapters when he started talking about how international relations under Anarchist and Socialist ideologies would look with “uncivilized nations,” “inferior races,” and how the “civilized world” may need to still have some sort of army to protect against the “negro menace,” but probably won’t have to worry much about the “Yellow Peril.”It goes to show how pervasive racism was at that time.
Some of the proposed ways are already adopted in the civilised world and thought rather as an obvious and uncontroversial part of it. However, a lot of the reasoning lacks any supporting evidence in data and its supposed validity is based solely on the plausibility of how it sounds. It is a work of a dreamer and should be regarded exactly as such.
A large portion over my head, politics not a subject I find of interest, and clearly dated a hundred years later, I don’t think I read this under good context. It’s a bit idealistic, but still it seems ahead of it’s time. I may need to return to this upon familiarization with other political ideas. 6/10
In this book you will know Russell's perspective of how a economic system can improve with the ideas of socialism and anarchism. But it's only that, Russell did know basic economics and interaction of individuals in a market environment, so he felt in basic fallacies longer time ago refuted (or accepted) by economist in both sides of the spectrum. "Sounds good, doesn't work"
Russell is by far one of my favorite philosophers. He so eloquently puts forth rational arguments that focus on the well being of all, and included so much discussion of equality and women’s rights that I’m sad to say continue to be argued over in the US today. The last chapter describes a plan that I think could still work, but I also fear is unlikely to ever be accomplished.
Excellent intro to forms of socialism/anarchismRussel writes a strong analysis of various forms of socialism and anarchism and from that puts forth his view of an ideal society. His insights into the strengths and weaknesses of these socioeconomic systems are informative and well though out- he leaves little untouched in his analysis.
Bra koncisa sammanfattningar om vardera rörelse/tradition. Lyckas också kännas aktuell trots hundra år på nacken vilket är imponerande. Nååååågot utdragen på slutet dock, men kan delvis vara för att jag läste originalöversättningen - väldigt gammal svenska.
It's not bad but I could have addressed all his criticisms of anarchism. He should have asked me :)
Interesante, aunque un poco pesado de leer.
Russell, in his vivid and logical language, and spending very little time asserting that capitalism is a failure that encompasses injustice, oppression, and tyranny; writes this volume to discuss and analyse the possible alternative.
Many of the arguments he puts forward are still strong and logical while some have to be seen differently a hundred years later.He proposes a hybrid system that largely builds on the ideas of anarchism but requires a gradual move towards it rather than a revolution and keeps some elements of governance, force, and a complement to the absolute equal distribution of wealth that allows all to enjoy the basic sustenance while being able, through extra work, to acquire preferred luxuries.
Russell's vision of Socialism - a small state Libertarian Anarchism - is one that appears strange to modern eyes used to the dogmatic ideology of the authoritarian Communist states which rose and fell over the twenieth century.
What I found most interesting was his focus on 'Freedom' and 'the development of the Individual' - concepts he puts forward as the most vital elements of any future society which is to improve on Capitalism.
In the century since Russell wrote this book, almost no one seems to have paid attention.
Un análisis a los posibles cambios que necesita la sociedad para vivir en un mundo más libre y una reacción a las injusticias del capitalismo.
Nessa obra, Russell faz, primeiramente, um apanhado geral das três causas - Socialismo, Anarquismo e Sindicalismo - com que, partindo de algumas de suas proposições, propõe-e a analisar certos problemas, que incluem, por exemplo, a coletivização, a remuneração do trabalho, relações internacionais e a arte e a ciência sob esses sistemas.
Uma das coisas que me chamou a atenção, e que até mesmo fora dita pelo próprio Russell no Prefácio à Terceira edição, foi o fato dele ter previsto, de certo modo, o que se passaria na união soviética, no que diz a natureza do sistema - o que mais tarde ele viria a denunciar em A prática e a teoria do Bolchevismo.
Russell is mostly known as a great logician and one of the founders of analytic philosophy.
He was also a very prolific writer on social issues which eventually granted him a Nobel prize in literature.
Who would have imagined that such a mainstream figure would openly advocate the abolition of capitalism and instead propose some form of Guild Socialism that appears to be very close to traditional Anarchism?
Inspired mostly by G.D.H. Cole and Peter Kropotkin, this book remains a serious discussion on the prospects of a better future.
It might appear somehow anachronistic at times, but the world that it aspires to create remains relevant.
Given when this was written it is a very clear, concise and logical step by step guide to the possible advantages and disadvantages of various styles of Socialist societies. Bertrand breaks down Marxist thinking and investigates the three main 'routes' discussing them in a clear and rational way before looking at how society would function.What I would of liked was to see how/if Betrand's views changed after seeing what happened to the political Left after WWI and WWII. But, perhaps he wrote that elsewhere..
Russell discusses the virtues and draw backs of state Socialism and Anarchism as alternatives to Capitalism. Though he builds the case that they may not be the ideal options he goes on to discuss Guild Socialism that takes on a very protectionist stance by putting the unions and trades in charge to protect their members. Interesting idea but still did not build a compelling reason why is wouldn't lead to a chase to the bottom as people life of the labor of others and no one is motivated t give extra effort other then through altruism.
