https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60932.Parable_of_the_Talents
God is change.Thus is presented Octavia Butler’s brilliant and brutally powerful 1998 Earthseed novel Parable of the Talents.Taking its title from the Biblical parable from St. Matthew, Butler describes a near future dystopian American society that has been decimated by apocalypse, The Pox, and is unraveling along socio-economic and theological lines.Religion as powerSome religious critics will see this novel as an attack on religious fundamentalism, most specifically Christian extremism, as horribly exemplified by Christian America (CA) Crusaders.
Butler is showing us how nationalistic and religious fronts can hide gross and deplorable moves for power by playing on inner fears and prejudices.Religion as a spiritual movementButler describes a movement created by and championed by the protagonist Lauren Olamina: Earthseed.
Butler's Parable of the Talents told a seemingly totally unrelated tale."Parable of the Talents" continues the story of the birth of a religion and its evolution into a way of life, Earthseed.
A frightening futureHaving read the interviews with Octavia Butler at the end of the books, the main aim was to give an idea of the challenges that come with starting up a new religion.
Again, I don't blame Butler for not having come up with a great new religion, but it made the whole thing harder to relate to, especially if, aside from the religion's fanatic founder, you see people in the book vehemently cling to these words and make them their own.
We go on having stupid wars that we justify and get passionate about, but in the end, all they do is kill huge numbers of people, maim others, impoverish still more, spread disease and hunger”The above passage is the essence of what Octavia Butler wanted to communicate with her Earthseed duology — of which Parable of the Talents is the concluding volume — I think.
Suffice it to say that the book ends very well and should leave most readers fully satisfied.I really want to rate parable of talents 5 stars because it is an excellent novel and a well deserved the Nebula Award winner, but I can't do that in good conscience as I do have one minor issue with it.
And although it overtly criticises evangelical Christianity, particularly the militant American brand, its target is really the monotheistic religions of the world - notably Judaism, Christianity, and Islam - not because they are monotheistic but because they are dogmatic, and consequently sectarian, and therefore useful for political manipulation, especially in modern democracies.
Although not consistent with some developed theology, this insight is not at odds with the fundamental scriptures of any of the monotheistic religions, which all present an acting, feeling, mutable God who apparently learns about human beings as they learn about Him. Process Theology does not deny various monotheistic tenets such as divine eternity, omnipotence or even the immutability of the 'core' of God, as it were.
I think we were still supposed to sympathize with Lauren the most (and you do, at the end in particular, which is truly emotionally jarring for reasons I don't want to spoil), but it was still gratifying to have an acknowledgment of the fact that she consistently bullied or seduced people into embracing her religion.To be fair, I am only being so critical of this stuff because Butler came so close to writing a post-apocalyptic story that was totally on-point with regard to the creation of a better, post-capitalist society in the ashes of the old, avoiding the libertarian/hyper-individualist bent that afflicts so many stories of this genre.
Grim, bleak, and intellectual read about the near future.
She and her husband live in the community of Acorn where Olamina teaches Earthseed, promotes literacy, education, and a stable way of life.
The Crusaders are not down & Acorn and its members are soon imprisoned as they are considered cultists.
Their young children are quickly adopted into "good CA (Christian America) homes." The community members spend seventeen months being brutalized and worked like animals before being able to escape.
The rest of the story deals with the after effects of their imprisonment and the search for their children.
The story takes place in the western United States during the years 2032-2090, and chronicles how Lauren leads the small community of Acorn toward her dreamed-of New World amongst the stars, Destiny.
Acorn is the community slowly being transformed through a worldview known as Earthseed, or, ”shapers of God.” For Earthseed, “God is Change.” It seems that Butler’s novel was allowed to develop from that same concept in that it begins with one set of ideas but rather than being bound by those parameters, the story morphs organically through the wills of its characters.
This follows the same protagonist, Lauren, although the time period has shifted forward a few years, from the first book.
This primarily follows the same diary-style format, although there are additional small inclusions from other characters.
It also deals with primarily the same topics of focusing on the societal and political alterations in an anarchy-ruled dystopian, and the instalment and a creation of a new religion to alleviate the destruction and chaos that is so prevalent.Although this was well-structured and formulated I had the same issues with this, that I had with Parable of the Sower.
This book's plot can be summarised in just one paragraph and little happens beyond this.
I think both this and its predecessor Parable of the Sower are particularly relevant reads at this time. This one is superior to the first, in my opinion. It did a lot to make me feel absolutely terrible, but I do mean that in a positive way.RTC.
Though my inquiry into understanding the true nature of faith and religion is far from over, Butler has been able to show me some insightful avenues of thought, but perhaps also stoked the fires of fear that lurk under my misunderstanding.
Her steadfast faith that her beliefs are unequivocal truths makes her vulnerable, while she created Earthseed largely to help people understand this post-apocalyptic world, survive in it and become stronger, a contradiction.
Ender could show people all of the illusions that had mislead them into hate and fear, but he wouldn't create illusions even to give hope and purpose.
Her daughter has a very difficult time coming to terms with who her mother was, and so there are two very different narrative threads woven through the events described in the novel: Lauren, describing much of it as it was happening, and her daughter, commenting (and often, passing judgment) decades later.This is one of those science fiction books that really should be considered literature, and it's a shame Octavia Butler isn't more widely known.
So I'll just say a few things -- I noticed some people complaining in their reviews of Parable of the Sower that while Butler did go into some of the ways that minorities are hit harder during difficult times, she didn't go into much into how they fall harder on women.
I can no longer use a label that in any way implies I lend my support to these men."Because the truly horrifying thing about this book is that it cannot be put away from you on the basis that it is "fiction." These things have happened, are happening, will continue to happen all over the world.
Then it's boring again until the end.Part of the boredom stems from the way this book is written.
Unlike Parable of the Sower, which steeps the reader in the middle of the drama, this book consists entirely of diary entries that continue the first story (but told in fragments missing big chunks of time), and bold texted narrative written by Olamina's daughter.
Ron Hubbard at his desk trying to think of ways to start writing his Scientology when Olamina (who is pretty much nameless in this book -- the journals being in first-person and all) recites her verses over and over again.
I've never experienced a narrator like this - a young black woman founding a new religion in a post apocalyptic world.
In this book, she's up against the Christian America movement, whose leader is elected president and whose Crusaders are given a free hand to destroy or enslave "heathens" and other undesirables.
Some of the early rhetoric of the Christian America movement was eerily reminiscent of that which surrounded George W.
Bush's presidency, which makes the fact that Butler wrote this before his term so amazing to me.It's a tough read at times, emotionally - the chaotic world they're surviving breeds lots of slavery and rape and murder.
Recommended reading at the date of this review publishing.President Jarret's slogan in this book is "Make America Great Again" and you read that within 30 pages of the opening. Ring the alarm.
2.5/5Two major problems lead to this book getting the rating it did--The first one was completely the book's fault and that was extremely mediocre dialogue.
Like its been a while since I've read dialogue this colorless.--The second was that this is the second book in a duology...and i didnt read the first book.
Bare in mind that you absolutely don't need to read the first book to read this one.
But since i review books more from a writers standpoint than that of enjoyment, i noticed a lot of bugs that came from me having no prior knowledge of character or world.
Maybe Butler was clairvoyant, but mostly she was a student of history who used her brilliant imagination to envision a chilling world in our near future. I appreciated her addition of POVs in this 2nd Earthseed book. The mother-daughter contrast was stark. And the violence was rough to digest. But Talents cemented Butler as a favorite of mine, if not THE favorite. Full review on my book blog TheBibliophage.com.
One thing Octavia excels at is looking at how small actions change people. Another thing Octavia excels at is being relentless af. This isn’t my fave OB but I find myself wishing she were still alive and writing. Small tangent: the tyrant president in this used “Make America Great Again” as a catchphrase. OB wrote this in the 1990s.
I would like to believe that certain aspects, such as the religious “Crusaders” and slave collars is an exaggeration, and yet, part of me knows that, even now, the kind of thinking that the book’s Christian Church of America instills is very much prevalent.Community – and the meaning of family with in the community – is a prominent theme, as it is in all of Butler’s books so far.
In this case, Earthseed is what the poor and abused have come to cling to in order to survive and not give up hope, while extremist Christianity runs rampant among the rich and those who fear everything else.For the second time, I’ve ended up reading Butler’s books out of order.
Interspersed between her journal entries are the thoughts of her daughter--Asha.
Parable of the Talents tells the story of how mother and daughter were separated, and how Acorn collapsed.I loved Parable of the Sowers so much, I had no doubt that I would enjoy this one.
A LOT of rape, I mean, every single guy but one rapes or sexually abuses women at some point, and that one exception is a manipulating asshole.
This novel is a barrage of every possible abuse against women, and it's too much for me.
I can handle violence, and violence against women, certainly Parable of the Sowers had that, but this was excessive.
I learned about Octavia Butler by reading Linda Haroway's Modest Witness@Second Millenium. FemaleMan Meets OncoMouse: Feminism and Technoscience. Octavia Butler writes fantastic, interesting stories. You should not be scared away by the "science fiction" title. Octavia writes exactly what science fiction should be- exploring what it means to be human, gendered, sexual, organic, alive. It is not stupid tazers/3rd penis/deep space science fiction masturbation. This is my favorite of all of her books, but also the least science fictiony- if you like this book, you should read the rest. Start with "Lilith's Brood"- the third book (Imago) is the best.
This was brutal in every way, but so, so good. This is what I want from a dystopia. It's heartbreaking and impossible to dismiss. It's a warning. And also a promise that life will survive. (Also I found myself a bit of a convert to a fictional religion?)
Memory of this incident has stayed with me because later in a women's magazine, I read a number of letters to the editor in which letter writers insisted that it was Mrs. Liuzzo's duty to stay at home and look after her family.
She had no right, the letter writers said, to involve herself in a struggle not her own.
Of course, the true goals was to force the illegals out, but as long as there are jobs here--even dirty, ill-paid, dangerous jobs--needy people from other countries will come here.
second read - 13 August 2018 - ***** Because I had just re-read Parable of the Sower, I also felt I needed to re-read Parable of the Talents, the second book of Octavia Butler’s Earthseed duology.
I, for one, did not see even this much coming, and so quickly.14 years ago, I found Parable of the Talents to be the lesser work, in comparison to Parable of the Sower.
This book is painfully powerful at this time.While Parable of the Talents does reach a satisfying ending, Butler had intended for Earthseed to be a trilogy, or perhaps a longer series.
The continuing story of Lauren Olamina, whose gathered followers are now part of a community called Acorn.
Things seem to be going well until a white Christian demagogue is elected, whose followers take matters into their own hands, attacking Acorn, killing a number of residents, imprisoning the survivors, and removing the children, placing them into more traditional religious homes.
Lauren's dreams for Earthseed are derailed, while the survivors wait for their opportunity to liberate themselves.
Lauren loses and finds (view spoiler)[family (hide spoiler)] without losing her faith, and is eventually paired with someone who is able to help her spread her message and find supporters.
Loved this book. It's amazing. I think everyone should read it (after reading Parable of the Sower). I'll definitely be looking for more Octavia Butler books to read.
Nobody says a reaction like that has to be logical, but I just didn't enjoy that facet of the novel and thought it felt contrived.But as for what this book did right, it's difficult to know where to begin.
The critical failing of current dystopian novels, particularly within YA, stems from the seeming inability these (majority white) authors have to identify the problems and perpetrators of current issues.
It's a world where public education has collapsed because selfish people no longer feel like paying taxes to educate children, and the resulting illiteracy and vagrancy causes a massively destructive drug epidemic and - again- widespread poverty.
I liked Butler's historical time travel novel Kindred, but was disappointed with this dystopian SF.
I liked the idea of society's "leftovers" coming together to build a new community, and I'm a fan of the woman as leader.
I didn't like the simplistic way most Christians in the novel were portrayed as evil, sadistic hypocrites.
And what's up with Olamina confessing, in the last 100 pages of the book, to wanting to sleep with a woman?
After reading Kindred, I suspect that Butler is a much better writer than this book reveals.
For me, this novel was a lazy misfire of Butler's own considerable talents.
I read it just as the bush admin was quietly shriveling to its long awaited end and I was feeling hopeful that Obama could actually bring some positive change.
This book resonated with some of those feelings.
If the decline is long and slow and the recovery is longer and slower I want to align myself with group like Acorn- hunker down, work hard, grow and nurture, try to survive with some sense of hope and integrity.
Not as smooth as the previous Parable of the Sower, Butler is a little too in love with her cast of characters and the Acorn settlement to move the story forward, burdening the tale with occasional stuck-in-the-mud moments of bogged-down, stagnant plot.
Not sure how I feel about Butler's narrative voice decision of a sullen long-lost daughter, who seems to only be there to cast unreliability on Lauren Oya Olamina's own prideful journals, but surely that would be more convincingly if done more subtly.
It makes me wonder if Butler made this choice when she noticed early fans of THE SOWER exalting Lauren's status as their own kind of messiah.
