https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6048685-the-decisive-moment
Steidl, as with all the books that they print, did an amazing job with Cartier-Bresson's The Decisive Moment.
The photographs on the Orient seem more busy and chaotic, which I'm sure is because of the feel of the place itself.The text at the beginning of the book is written by Cartier-Bresson himself.
It's interesting and exciting that he chose to write his own introduction when most photographers had their introduction written by famous writers of the time (Jean-Paul Sartre for example had been considered as a potential writer for the introduction to The Decisive Moment, similar to how Jack Kerouac wrote one for Robert Frank's The Americans) For an amateur photographer, it was surely inspiring to read what Cartier-Bresson had to say about photography, even after watching probably dozens of tiny films or documentaries with or about him.
Henri Cartier-Bresson was one of the great photographers of all time, and this is his signature book.
Whether you've seen all of these images before, or you're discovering them for the first time, there is genius here.
In the words, and especially in the images.There appears to be a new republication of this book coming in the fall - specifically one with a large size and without prints across the bind, which HCB notoriously hated.
You may want to do as I do - check this one out from the library from time to time, and get ready to buy the upcoming reprint.
The title of the book is perfect. Cartier is one of he big masters of photography. If you are a professional or an amateur photographer I think you will find this book very inspirational because he talks about taking the photo at the right time, the camera and technicalities are extra but not the most important part in photography which is your eye and the timing, the perfect timing.
From Cartier-Bresson I have learned to prime the action and the subject over the technique and composition. This, for me, is a difficult lesson to apply as I feel rather unnatural to take portraits or even street photography showcasing action.An area to explore.
Henri Cartier-Bresson and W. Eugene Smith are the greatest Photographers for me. Fuckin get this book and live in it . Meaning - Truth and Beauty will shake and hold you and remind you what it means to be alive here.
The legendary book. Love all the work by HCB. The book is well finished with thick and very nice texture paper. And it’s huge!
Most comprehensive in so few words. A must read for any photo enthusiast.
Steidl, as with all the books that they print, did an amazing job with Cartier-Bresson's The Decisive Moment.
The photographs on the Orient seem more busy and chaotic, which I'm sure is because of the feel of the place itself.The text at the beginning of the book is written by Cartier-Bresson himself.
It's interesting and exciting that he chose to write his own introduction when most photographers had their introduction written by famous writers of the time (Jean-Paul Sartre for example had been considered as a potential writer for the introduction to The Decisive Moment, similar to how Jack Kerouac wrote one for Robert Frank's The Americans) For an amateur photographer, it was surely inspiring to read what Cartier-Bresson had to say about photography, even after watching probably dozens of tiny films or documentaries with or about him.
Inspiring. And so he did. Inspire, that is. Several generations of photographers. It's so sad that there has been this attempt by postmodern theorists to lump his work into the Modernist canon to be de-constructed and debunked. A great loss, but there are many photographers and photography lovers out there who can see through the bullshit, and will continue to revere this great maker of profound and sublime images.
The same eye that make me fall in love with photographyIf you have $ 3500 you can bought the first edition of this copy. but if you don't have the money watch the video on http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dSCNDm...cheers
The unbearable "light"-ness of photographing... Here comes the account form one of the masters of it of all times. A must read for book lovers...
No need a word. His photos are amazingly inspirational. Open any page to find his grip of decisive moments. Full of wisdom from a great photographer and wise human being.
