https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114130.Honest_Illusions
Honest Illusions is another of Roberts' "time progression" stories in that it moves through different periods of the characters' lives instead of only being set in the present.
The book progresses through various periods, going through important events that build the characters to what they are - one of the most important being Luke discovering that Max is more than a magician.
And Luke is just yummy.I love the time progression aspect of the story.
It just makes the relationship between them so full-bodied and real and you really connect with them as characters and lovers.But a word of warning, though - a large majority of this book is the time progression.
Final rating: 5/5 stars  “In all the illusions, you’re the only truth I need.”  I have so many feelings about this book. First of all, I want to congratulate Nora for making such a twisted bad guy. Good job, everytime it was his POV, i was angry. Good job indeed. Other than that, amazing and great characters, not only the main ones, but side ones as well, which were so deep and wonderfully done. I bought this book on a sale and I don't regret it - it was worth it, even though I only read transla
It's so rare to see a stand alone book which has absolutely everything I need: it made me laugh, made me cry, had great ending where everything was wonderfully solved, and had wonderful, vivid and heartbreaking characters, both main and side ones.
The short story version:The book then starts with many years earlier, the moment when a horribly abused and wounded runaway Luke met Nouvelle family and started working for them.
Through the years, he falls in love with Max Nouvelle's daughter Roxanne, but never acts on his feelings, until Roxy took things in her hands and "seduced" him instead, where he finally gave in when they were 21/17 years old.
And that "the alcohol helped kill the pain some, but the sex helped more." I thought that was so bizarre that he would tell her about it like that: "I missed you so much I slept with thousands of women--and it really helped!" And she just took it in stride and said something like, "I'll bet," and took him back.
Grrrr!It was too bad, too, because there was a lot about the book I enjoyed--like how the hero and heroine were raised together, grew up fighting like cats and dogs, but ended up falling in love.
Things that were awesome-Magicians-Good relations in general (NO DYSFUNCTIONAL FAMILIES)-Good relationship development (except for the transition.. uhh Luke became creepy)-and my favorite, THIEVES.Reasons why this book did not blow my mind-Wayyy too long-Cheesy ending -Umm I don't understand the villain. Perhaps because he was a sociopath or perhaps his motives were absolutely ridiculous. DUDE! THIS HAPPENED YEARS AGO! Build a bridge. GET OVER IT. Plus what does it matter to you, aren't you a sociopath or something?On a somewhat related note....(view spoiler)[ He mentioned the sorcerer's stone didn't he? What happened to that? (hide spoiler)]
Skittish Luke wants only to make a clean getaway until he meets the lovely and really, really stacked Lily Bates, Max's lover and magic assistant.
Luke falls a little bit in love with sweet, warm-hearted Lily and relaxes his guard enough to accept Max's offer.The only drawback is the presence of eight-year-old Roxanne, Max's snotty little brat of a kid.
After all, they aren't really brother and sister.Did I mention that Max Nouvelle is no ordinary carnival magician?
Max and Luke, being men and all, are under an illusion that Roxanne knows nothing of the real family business.
The Nouvelle family magic act has become, bigger, better, and internationally acclaimed.
I can't describe the way this book made me feel, because somewhere between page 1 and 492 I lost myself.
I stole from the rich and gave to the poor; watched my closest friend become my worst enemy; made love on a cruise ship and then watched my lover walk out of my life, only to have the lying baster return five years too late to bring me crashing back to my knees.I suppose none of that makes a whole lot of sense to any of you, but pick up this book and all your questions will disappear.
Vivieron juntos parte de su adolescencia, pelearon, discutieron, fueron más rivales que amigos, hasta que un día toda esa energía se volcó en la atracción que cada día crecía más fuerte.Llegado un momento, ya adultos, después de cinco años de haber desaparecido sin haber dicho una palabra, Luke regresa.
(view spoiler)[Aparte, al parecer él no pensaba en regresar hasta que vio la noticia en el periodico de su archienemigo (hide spoiler)] No entiendo porqué Roxanne tiene que bancarse la desaprobación de su familia solo porque no lo recibe con los brazos abiertos.
(hide spoiler)]Más allá de eso, no fue una lectura muy agradable, los personajes principales no me llegaron al conmover.
When 12-year-old Luke Callahan first sees Magician Max Nouvelle and his young daughter Roxanne at a traveling circus, he is fascinated.
Max offers Luke a job, takes him into the family, and teaches him some magic tricks.
As they become a family and travel the country with their magic act, Luke realizes that magic isn't Max's only talent.
As Luke and Roxy grow closer, a villain is plotting a vengeance that just might destroy the Nouvelle family and ruin the life Luke has built for himself.I shouldn't have let this book sit on the shelf for so long.
No entanto, há algo que transporta esta obra para um nível superior em relação às outras.Como não poderia deixar de ser, Nora Roberts apresenta-nos um romance repleto de tudo o que caracteriza o género.
Ao longo desta obra, podemos ver uma narrativa sólida, com personagens muito bem construídas, acompanhada de uma escrita leve como é habitual.
E talvez seja este o motivo pelo qual este livro me deixou um sabor especial.Como podemos ler na sinopse, a narrativa desenrola-se em torno de uma família de ilusionistas – a família Nouvelle – e de Luke – “um rapaz que Max recolheu das ruas”, com um passado assustador.
Сред всички илюзии,ти си истината от която се нуждая.
Just one example is how the leading pair, Roxy & Luke, were treated in respect to dating and sex as they were growing up.
And then later when they are adults and finally get together....(view spoiler)[Luke leaves for lame reasons and while he's gone he travels the world drinking and whoring while Roxy is at home raising their child not dating even after how Luke left.
I didn't like the way he often behaved and how he treated Roxy when he knew she was in love with him.
I have to say, that the big *thing* that happens between Roxy and Luke didn't have to go down the way it did.
Written in a time progression manner, where the story travels from one period of characters’ lives to another, Honest Illusions is definitely one of the best romance novels I’ve ever read.
Huge part of the Honest Illusions consists of what happen in the past, allowing readers to thoroughly understand what really happen to the main characters, what makes them who they are and why they act in certain ways.The characters created by Roberts in this book are real and well balanced.
3.5* A very enjoyable book, but not my favorite Nora Roberts.
I think I'm prejudice because the protagonists are jewel thieves.
Other than that, and a few standard plot devices (not bad, just well-used) I enjoyed the story and liked the main characters.
It still amazes me how many very good books Nora Roberts has written.
She always layers her stories, adding details and complexity, often crossing continents or spanning years.
She obviously researches her settings, both the physical/geographic setting and the setting for the story, such as the world of magicians and jewel heists for Honest Illusions.
Gosto sempre de voltar a Nora Roberts. São romances, sabemos à partida que vão acabar bem, mas que me deixam sempre com uma sensação de bem estar no fim.Gostei das personagens, adorei o Max e tive pena da reviravolta, mas foi um livro que me manteve sempre interessada.
This took a while to get into.
I'm not sure if it was timing, or mood, but Nora Roberts writing usually sucks me in right away, and I didn't get sucked in until almost 2/3 o f the way in.
Then I couldn't put it down.
The characters were good, the story was good, and I loved the ending.
There was a nice twist a bit earlier, and maybe that's what started getting me really into the book.
She was incredibly stubborn and childish at times.
Although, her love for her family, especially her father, was endearing.
At 50% I'm not finishing this book. So far it's just been the two MCs squabbling like kids. If I wanted to listen to hours of sibling rivalry I'd just leave my Grandkids unsupervised for a while. :( I'm sure it will strike others differently, but this isn't what I want from a book.
Of course, Roxanne has a few surprises of her own.::: I'll Admit It; I've Read It Several Times :::Honest Illusions is probably my favorite Roberts book of all times, and I've read it more times than I care to admit.
Max even goes so far as to tithe profit from the sale of the items that he steals, and seeing him give Luke the love and care that he should have had all along will break any parent's heart.If there is one single Roberts book that anyone curious should read, it should be Honest Illusions.
Mas a vida é uma ilusão, e somos facilmente atingidos pela magia das coisas e esta relação evolui de uma forma muito engraçada e muito bem desenvolvida.
Um livro que facilmente nos transporta para um contexto à parte daquele que é a nossa própria realidade.
Todos nós procuramos as coisas positivas, as coisas boas, mas muitas vezes estas não passam de meras ilusões que oferecemos a nós mesmos para lidar com uma realidade um pouco mais difícil que aquela que queríamos.
Este livro deixam-nos um pouco dessa magia da vida que procuramos.
My first Nora Roberts, which I enjoyed, but I can't say I passionately loved, hence 3.5 stars.The story revolves around Luke, an abused runaway, Max, a magician (and part-time jewel thief) who takes Luke under his wing, and Roxanne, Max's fiery daughter.
It was quite enjoyable and I liked the mains but I never went into obsession, largely because of two flaws: (1) they are thieves - I am sorry, that prevented me from really rooting for them.
He breathes, drinks, eats, and sleeps evil.
Oh, and the "talk to each other" syndrome raises its head.
It's realistic that Luke, with his issues, does what he does, but it doesn't mean it doesn't set my teeth on edge.
I have tried audio books a few times now and always have this persistent hope of capturing the joy I felt as a child listening to stories on the radio (yes I am that old) however I have realised that there are two main factors that always determines my enjoyment:1) The storyline2) The narratorIn this book both of these factors fell way off the mark and I could only stick it out to the halfway mark. I have outgrown Nora Roberts books a long time ago and should never have started this audio book b
I have tried audio books a few times now and always have this persistent hope of capturing the joy I felt as a child listening to stories on the radio (yes I am that old) however I have realised that there are two main factors that always determines my enjoyment:1)	The storyline2)	The narratorIn this book both of these factors fell way off the mark and I could only stick it out to the halfway mark.
I have outgrown Nora Roberts books a long time ago and should never have started this audio book but I got it as a gift and you should never look a gift horse in the mouth so to speak.
She doesn't actually take long to invite him back into her bed, but there was a fair bit of the story to tie up before it finished and this was towards the end.I was upset about Max's fate and it is interesting to read a romance where all the characters don't have a HEA.I liked the early stories when they were kids and watching them grow up and change over the years.Luke SHOULD have explained his reason for leaving and he COULD have kept in touch (covertly).All in all an enjoyable read.
Dit boek is niet één van Nora's beste maar zeker ook niet haar slechtste boek. Het thema van dit boek is magie / illusionisten en dievenbendes, eens iets volledig anders maar zeker niet slecht. De personages zijn zoals altijd goed onderbouwd en spreken ook onmiddellijk aan. Deel 1 en deel 3 lezen erg vlot en de spanning bouwt zich mooi op. Echter deel 2 vond ik langdradig, het mocht hier voor mij gerust met 50 pg minder. Vandaar de 4 sterren en geen 5.
This is perhaps my favorite stand alone Nora Roberts. I love the hero and heroine. I love the magic. I love the thievery as subplot. The villian is dispicable in all those good ways.I find myself reading this book at least once a year when i'm looking to curl up and engulf myself in other people's lives that are far more exotic than my own.
zanimljiva prica o trupi madjionicara,o Luku i Roxane koji su se zavoljeli u svijetu magije i kradje nakita, ali zivot je pred njih stavio razna iskusenja,samo je magija uspjela da ih ponovo spoji .,..
Como siempre digo cuando reseño uno de sus libros, me gusta muchísimo la pluma de la autora, creo que tiene un estilo poético precioso y una narrativa muy elegante y cuidada.
De verdad que da gusto leer los libros de esta autora.Además, algo que siempre me cautiva de sus novelas es la descripción detallada de los oficios de los personajes y todo el trabajo de documentación que tiene detrás.
Pero, afortunadamente, me he rencontrado con mi pasión y ha sido gracias a la autora.El único fallito que le veo yo a este libro es que junto a los protagonistas hay varios personajes secundarios que son importantes en la trama y me hubiera gustado poder conocerlos un poco más.
But Luke's past came back to haunt him, and he left his family, and his heart, behind to protect them.But now, after five years, he's back, determined to get it all, especially Roxy, back no matter the cost.I must confess these "time progression" stories by Ms Roberts are hit-and-miss for me.
Roxy was a brat and Luke was a jerk for the better part of the story, and once they finally started to get interesting, it all went down the drain thanks to an especially twisted villain, whose motive was a bit far-fetched, if you ask me, and his actions rather disproportionate compared to the "offense".
Kaip visada ši autorė meistriškai kuria siužetą ir veikėjus!! Roksana ir Lukas auga kartu, pamažu pažįsta vienas kitą supranta, kad šeima ir namai yra viskas. Labai lengvai skaitosi, labai šilta ir magijos kupina knyga!
story was nice . I think it could be a best book of it wasn't too long .
I don’t like blackmail plots where the victim gives in and just pays and pays.Two different blackmails were used to get characters to do things that did not fit their motivations.
Not a good story for me.(view spoiler)[In one blackmail, the victim A is supposed to leave the person he loves (B) and not tell B.
Like Roxy was sick but kept insisting she could do a job.
I did not like the thief part.
Some sounded like cartoon characters.
You could hear the narrator taking breaths -- also annoying.OTHER BOOKS:Nora Roberts is hit and miss with me.
The characters...gosh you just love them, you feel like you know them...
they feel like friends.
You LOVE Lilly Nouvelle, she may look like trailer trash, but she is a Queen- a diamond in the rough.
Max Nouvelle, a magician, a thief, and a philanthropist...I think his character and integrity is better than some people who call themselves Christians.
The Alzheimer element is informative, descriptive and sad.
You love Max and feel like you are going through it with them!
Also, they were good, smart thieves, is it wrong to love criminals?
Then I love the Nouvelles.
