https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/369409.The_Logic_of_Collective_Action
The Logic of Collective ActionJDN 2456594 PDT 15:55.The blinders neoclassicists wear are large indeed. This book was written in 1971, and the neoclassical understanding of collective action has, as far as I can tell, not been substantially advanced since then—in over 40 years, the essential conclusions haven't changed. This would not be a problem, of course, if those conclusions were correct; but they aren't. Indeed they are wrong at a fundamental level; they are almost literally reversed from t
(Yet this is how you would behave, if you actually acted in your own self-interest independent of that of your "household", that is, your family.) True, they might be punished for it; but then again they might not (most child neglect goes unreported), and in any case, this does not factor into a normal human being's decision process.
But if we were really atomistic individuals, acting always in our own self-interest, there would be virtually no cooperation at all; even enforcement mechanisms are costly, and if we were all the psychopaths we are imagined to be, we wouldn't even be willing to punish people who do bad things, because that takes effort and time (and in a modern economy, money).
Olson argued (contrary to the conventional academic wisdom up to that time) that "unless the number of individuals in a group is quite small, or unless there is coercion or some other special device to make individuals act in their common interest, rational, self-interested individuals will not act to achieve their common or group interests." (Emphasis his.) It makes no rational sense for an individual to join an organization and work hard to achieve some aim, if the aim will be provided anyway.
Olson’s main argument is: Individuals will not act in the interest of a group unless there’s some form of coercion, or the group is relatively small.
An economist by training, Olson disregards that humans are capable of altruistic behavior and that there are intangible benefits that individuals seek by being loyal to a certain group.
Guess the soft science of studying the great lengths many of us are willing to go to in order to belong to a group was not popular in the 1960's.
Not quite a terrible book, just one about how to explain collective action through a strictly economic lens.
Brain food.Within a fairly small space the author puts forward a theory that spans economics, political science, and group psychology.
He then applies this to liberal economies, Marxist theory, and past and present America (i.e. unions, lobbies, agricultural coops).
He breaks a few myths and common misunderstandings, and puts forward an explanation of the strengths and weaknesses of all of these cases that is very compelling.
Notable is the attention given to explaining (with data) the history of the American labor movement from the viewpoint of what precisely made American unions powerful and what didn't really matter.The style is very direct, clear, and methodical, but it is also engaging.
"In a large group in which no single individual's contribution makes a perceptible difference to the group as a whole, it is certain that the collective good will NOT be provided unless there is coercion or some outside inducements that will lead the members of the large group to act in common interests." (44) Climate change, of course, is a problem where the collective good is scaled at the level of largest "latent group" there is, namely the 7B members of humanity as a whole.
Mancur Olsen’s ideas about why groups form, the difference between small and large groups that are exclusive or inclusive, and effects such as free-riding ware explained in his book, The Logic of Cooperation.
The freerider is someone (or an organization or state) that receives the benefit of public goods (like security or funding), which may be sponsored by a benefactor member.
A good example of this is how the U.S., the benefactor to NATO, will pull the lions share for the other member states.
Even if they under contribute (free-ride), they still get the benefit of the NATO security blanket.
Read this as a supplement (not a requirement) for a community development class. I don't think it would hurt anyone studying in this field to read this book. It's short enough, and easy to understand, but brings home some important concepts about collective action and capacity building that were not in my case, so easily understandable in our text.
Read the first third of the book. Had to put it down to finish another Library book. When I picked it up again, I thought to myself, "good god, I really don't want to read any more of this." Any book that I'm that repulsed to pick up again has to get one star.I'd advise you to read a wikipedia article about the book instead.
KOBOBOOKS
This is a core text in the economics of labor movements and political parties.
Required Reading for Intro Political Science. Interesting... and that 's about it.
Indeed, as the old saying indicates, their necessity is as certain as death itself.""If the state, with all of the emotional resources at its command, cannot finance its most basic and vital activities without resort to compulsion, it would seem that large private organizations might also have difficulty in getting the individuals in the groups whose interests they attempt to advance to make the necessary contributions voluntarily."-Mancur Olson, the Logic of Collective Action--------------------------------------------------"A farmer who placed the interests of other farmers above his own would not necessarily restrict his production to raise farm prices, since he would know that his sacrifice would not bring a noticeable benefit to anyone.
This is a classic book for understanding cooperation in contributing to public goods.
Olson extends and makes accessible Samuelson's arguments about the provision of public goods.
The main contribution (IMO) is identifying the conditions under which public goods *will* be produced.
Olson calls these 'latent' groups and claims that they will be much more common as group size increases.The ideas of this book have been highly influential and important.
They both take issue with Olson's assertion that large groups are less likely to provide public goods and provide additional insights into when and how collective action does (and doesn't) work.
I was thinking of joining a professional journalists and/or a professional historians organization, but now I'm not so sure that's a good idea.
A seminal work in public choice.
In The Logic of Collective Action, Olson originates what has become the standard story that the public choice economists tell about the role of special-interests in politics.
Namely, that a small group is inherently at an advantage against a larger group in arguments over public policy.
Although in total the amount at stake is the same for each group, the individual members of the small group have much more at stake than the individual members of the large group so they have an incentive to spend more time and energy trying to effect government policy to their benefit.
Mancur Olson is essential reading for anyone studying economics or any of the social sciences. He stresses that GROUP action and COLLECTIVE action is the motive force of society, and not the actions of individuals. Thus, history is not determined by individuals, but by groups and collective forces. The relationship between Prof. Olson's theories and welfare economics are obvious, as well as the relation to political science, sociology and just about everything else. Essential reading.
I kind of read this book by accident. The author, Mancur Olson, is often mentioned by an author I like, Ashwin Parameswaran, on the topic of "crony capitalism." I saw this book in a used book store and picked it up. It turns out, however, that this particular book is completely unrelated to the work mentioned by Parameswaran. To me it is pretty much a garden-variety exposition of the economic problems associated with collective goods (though perhaps it was groundbreaking when published).
Read only a portion of this book. Generally, author's thesis is that the larger a group is, the less likely it is to pursue a common good unless additional incentives are offered. This is for a number of reasons, but stems mostly from the fact that more members means less "bang" for each "buck" spent in pursuit of the common good. This hurt my brain a little bit.
A classic example of the very best scholarship that turns conventional logic on its head and opens up a whole new field of approaches. Absolutely essential to anyone working with policy or political theory.
An interesting look at the dynamics of group behavior and effectiveness, it describes the dynamics of small groups and large, and gets it right. Olson's description of how groups work is right on the money in my experience. While not exactly entertaining, it is illuminating.
3.75 starsGood look at the motivations people do, or do not have, to have to create groups. I had to play catch up, as the book starts out super strong, but their are some interesting points throughout the book.
This book delves into some thought provoking questions, such as why rational actors engage in economic activity that is of no direct benefit to them, and why groups refuse to act collectively even when it is in everyone's best interest.
I'm told that this is the driest book Olson wrote, I'm really hoping that's true, because I have Rise and Decline of Nations as well as Power & Prosperity waiting for me in the next couple of weeks. It was informative though, and he does explain his theory well.
one of the great books of all times, a structure of the socio- human world
...It was...interesting. common sense though. Big groups, harder to please but more powerful. Small groups, easy to please less powerful.etc etc.
Foundational, although not the whole story since, as I read somewhere, "all of history is a collective action problem."
Best book ever written about group behavior, which means it's the best book ever written about politics.
Read the first few chapters for a project I'm working on and when I got what I was looking for I stopped. No time to go on after I'd gotten what I needed. Very thought provoking though.
this book made a really good point but I forgot what it was - please remind me
This is a book you MUST read.
