https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/536799.Lo_
In Lo! Charles Fort writes about the kind of things—teleportation, spontaneous combustion, the “hive mind”—that have more recently been employed as themes in the Fox television series  Fringe . To say Fort writes about “freak occurrences” seems like a misnomer; here he has collected so many reports of crews disappearing from ships, cigar-shaped airships flying overhead, and strange animals seen at sea that such events begin to seem much more commonplace than conventional thought would suggest. A
Charles Fort writes about the kind of things—teleportation, spontaneous combustion, the “hive mind”—that have more recently been employed as themes in the Fox television series 
. To say Fort writes about “freak occurrences” seems like a misnomer; here he has collected so many reports of crews disappearing from ships, cigar-shaped airships flying overhead, and strange animals seen at sea that such events begin to seem much more commonplace than conventional thought would suggest.
In this book"," Charles Fort examines extreme phenomena"," and the mysterious forces behind them. His musings suggest that the universe is a much stranger place than anyone imagines"," and that even scientists may not know what is going on.While some of his ideas are crazy"," which he admits"," they certainly make me think twice before I believe anything – even my own senses.
çok ama çok merak ediyorum yaaaaa
This is among my favorite books of all time. Tongue in cheek, devils advocate, believe nothing, our perception is small treatise. Fort's writing style has a brilliantly off kilter rhythmic, un-reproducible quality that accents unpredictable comedic timing. A must read for any one into philosophy, semantics, metaphysics, sci-fi, horror, and especially ASTRONOMY!
An entertaining read but the emphasis on meteorological anomalies becomes a little tiresome in the end. Ultimately Fort undermines his own position by using copious empirical data to argue that one cannot understand the world by empirical methods. Philosophically I think Fort is at his best when he is most Platonist and at his weakest when he is most Monist.
This book demonstrates that Fort was a master of inductive reasoning... and also why inductive reasoning is unreliable. Still, very funny, witty. And I can always get behind the poking of complacent scientists.
Prepare to be amused, astonished, or alarmed, according to nerve and judgment!
It was awesome! So many twists and turns, but very wierd
