https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8568.Odds_Against
(Sid's wife has left him, which is not at all uncommon for a protagonist in a Dick Francis novel, but he's still on good terms with her father.)The father-in-law has an ulterior motive, which Halley soon discovers.
Well, of course, we can't allow something that horrifying to happen, but once Halley is on the job, a lot of other very horrifying things will happen--most all of them to him.Dick Francis is a very dependable author who almost always tells an interesting tale that moves swiftly along, and this book is certainly no exception.
”It came, the blinding flash in the eyes, as we soared into the air. White, dazzling, brain shattering light, splintering the day into a million fragments and blotting out the world in a blaze as searing as the sun. I felt Revelation falling beneath me and rolled instinctively, my eyes open and quite unable to see. There there was the rough crash on the turf and the return of vision from light to blackness and up through grey to normal light.” Two years ago Sid Halley crashed during a horse race
Two years ago Sid Halley crashed during a horse race and horse shoes made razor thin by use sliced up his left arm like roast beef at the deli counter.
She can’t just hide her face in her pocket like Sid can his hand.The interesting part that Dick Francis explores so deftly in this novel is the way people react to deformity.
Even when they have lost their jockey some of the horses want to finish the race.It has been a long time since I’ve read Dick Francis, too long.
This was my first Francis, but it definitely won't be my last.Sid Halley used to be a jockey until his hand was badly mangled in a fall--Francis alludes to what a sharp horseshoe and a horse's full weight can do to you, and it's not pretty--and since then, he's been drifting through life without fully participating it.
And Sid is eminently likable--matter-of-fact about his shortness, annoyed by his inability to eat anything but beef broth while his stomach is healing, self-conscious about his hand, smart, capable, and slowly putting his life back together.
One of the few characters champion jockey-turned-racetrack mystery writer Dick Francis has ever written more than one novel about is champion jockey-turned-racetrack private eye SID HALLEY.
It's a toss-up as to who's the better one-armed dick -- Halley or Michael Collins' Dan Fortune.In 1978, a British television series based on the characters created in Odds Against appeared, entitled The Racing Game.
Under Orders found Halley back on his feet (after the events of 1995's Come to Grief) and, if anything, more determined than ever.First Read: I always enjoy reading a good Dick Francis novel.
I really enjoy the Sid Halley series too.
He used to be alive.Now he merely drifts in a job at that he thinks was given to him out of pity; pity for a cripple with a deformed and useless hand.
Then a two-bit crook takes a pot shot at Halley who winds up, once again, in a hospital.
On leave, visiting with the father of his ex-wife, Halley is drawn into a complex investigation of financial fraud, crooked real estate deals and race track politics.
Highly recommended even for those who rarely read adventure or detective stories.This might be my all-time favorite Dick Francis and Sid Halley is his most inspiring hero.
As I think about all of his books (yes, this review covers all of his books, and yes I've read them all) I think about a moral ethical hero, steeped in intelligence and goodness embroiled in evil machinations within British horse racing society - either directly or indirectly.
The heroes aren't always horse jockies, they can be film producers, or involve heroes engaged in peripheral professions that somehow always touch the horse racing world.But more than that, Francis's heroes are rational human beings.
The hero's thoughts reveal a vulnerability that is touching, while his actions are always based on doing the right thing to achieve justice.
I have read every Dick Francis book, here is what they have to offer:Great charactersExcellent storiesWell thought out plotsGreat books!
The first of the wonderful Sid Halley books ... my favorites of the Dick Francis horse racing mystery thrillers - perhaps because of the damaged (in this case, literally) nature of the hero protagonist?
Mix equal parts of Agatha Christie, Eric Ambler, Graham Greene and Leslie Charteris. Shake well. And garnish with a dash of Grey and L'Amour.Dick Francis is the perfect author for an enjoyable reading experience. His characters remind me of watching the old Roger Moore Saint TV show or the Margaret Rutherford Miss Marple movies... just good clean fun.
In "Odds Against," though, Francis creates for the first--but not the last--time a hero whose life is decidedly unaspirational, and in doing so, introduces his most long-running hero and a theme that would haunt much of his works: what do you do when the thing you most want is taken away from you, and you still have a lot of life left to live?Sid Halley was a champion steeplechase jockey until a riding accident left him with a crippled hand and a bitter mind.
Halley is a typical Francis drifter-through-life, emotionally isolated but still financially comfortable enough to know the rules of Sloane Rangerdom and enjoy rubbing shoulders with the rich.
Though his wife left him early on, his ex-father in law still has him round to the big house occasionally, and this time it's to try and kickstart his interest in life again through investigating the dodgy dealings of a wide boy with perverted sexual tastes.
Sid comes in for a lot of physical abuse--to the place that I wondered how he lived through it, but according to Francis' autobiographies all jockeys have amazing powers of healing--or they retire early.
A fast, fun read, well up to the usual Francis standards.
Sid Halley, former jockey, has been working for a P.I. firm since his final race, which cost him the use of a hand.
He's given a big case involving racecourses that leads him to truly become an investigator, but at great cost.Halley is a fantastic hero, sardonic and pragmatic, and the support characters are all swell.
The mystery is properly twisty, and there is some rather nasty action as well.All in all, this is a fine read, perfect for Francis fans as well as any mystery readers wanting to see what this author is all about.
Reread but I hardly remembered anything except that it was a Sid Halley book.
He did his usual excellent job with both the men's and women's parts and brought a lovely poignancy to Miss Martin's character.
This is one of Francis's earliest books, and the 1960s setting comes through.
Over the course of the story Sid regains his confidence and comes to terms with the severe hand injury that cut short his racing career.
An excellent introduction to the Francis oeuvre if you haven't read him, featuring one of his best-liked characters.
Dick Francis is a delight. The man can spin a mystery/thriller like no other, and featuring horses to boot. Great characters, hijinks, and suspense. If you are a fan of Sherlock Holmes and also like or do not mind stories about horse racing, you won't be disappointed. Barring some minor 1960s-appropriate sexism (although it's a lot better than most books of that time that I've read), it really holds up even 50+ years later.
With tiny camera, Sid photographs Kraye's private papers on a country weekend at Oxfordshire where host Charles pretends to criticize Sid. Kraye "dangerous big-time crook" p 56 and wife Doria share deviant love of torture, pain, hurt Sid's hand.
Thug Fred bombs Sid's home, office, heads to torture Charles.
(view spoiler)[Sid removes rodent by tail plugging boiler, adds water to simulate overflow, but Doria sees not enough.
Krayes trap Sid and destroy his hand to find location of paper.
Sid decides to trade sheet of paper for Kraye's shares in Seabury.
The very first Sid Halley novel, and one of Dick Francis’ best.
All in all a thumping good read.Halley would be featured in four novels by Francis, and a fifth by Francis’ son Felix.Odds Against would earn Francis his first Edgar Award nomination for best novel.
The next Halley novel, Whip Hand, would earn Francis the Edgar and the CWA Gold Dagger.Look for the Pocket paperback editions with the cover art, usually depicting a scene of violence from the novel, divided up into cubes with a couple missing; like missing pieces of a puzzle.
This was my first Dick Francis book.
I have been avoiding them for a long time - even though my mother was a keen advocate.
Since it is the first in the Sid Halley series, I decided to get my feet wet.
I am glad I did.My long avoidance of Dick Francis was my belief that the backdrop of horse racing would be a detractor for me, even though I was born in blue grass country.
Sid Halley has experienced a good amount of misfortune in his life, and the book opens at such a time - he has just been shot.
probably the best known thriller by Dick Francis, the introduction of Sid Halley - steeplechase jockey turned private investigator. It contains all the trademark aspects of mr. Francis heroes and plot development, still fresh close to the start of his writing career
I don't think I ever came across a Dick Francis main character that didn't engage my interest, but Sid Halley is a cut above the average.
That doesn't mean he's my favourite, no, that privilege would have to go to Kit Fielding of "Break in" and "Bolt", but Sid Halley always makes for interesting reading.
He is deep, complex, and can be very infuriating at times, but he never bores.This was my first reading of book 1 in the Sid Halley series, though I've read all the others several times.
I think this is my favorite character in all of the Dick Francis mysteries. I read this years and years ago after my dad introduced me to the world that Dick Francis wrote about. I think there are three books with Sid as the main character, but this one is the best. He takes what has happened to him and makes it work instead of letting it rule his life. Excellent mystery set in the horse racing world. Definitely recommend.
I've reread this one countless times. And I never tire of it. The characters and plotting completely satisfy every time.
The first episode was an adaptation of this book; the remainder were based on the characters and written by screenwriters in consultation with Mr. Francis.
In it, Sid Halley has been "working" in a large detective agency for two years, ever since his hand was smashed in a steeplechase accident, ending his career as a jockey.
All this character growth is brought out much more fully in the book than in the film.
If you like to see filmed mysteries, do watch the videos first and then read the book.
But do read the book by all means.
As always, Francis comes up with a winning combination of mystery, intelligence, horse-racing, and clever detective work.
I like all of the heroes that Francis creates, but Sid Halley is one of my favorites.
He recognizes the depth of Sid's personality and is very supportive, getting him out of the doldrums by providing him with an intriguing puzzle to solve involving a potential hostile takeover of Seabury Racecourse.
The mystery is complicated, but Francis makes it easy to follow and keeps the story moving very quickly and with great excitement.
The secondary characters of Chico and Miss Martin and Radnor (and of course, Charles) are full of personality and greatly enhance the story.
After recovery, he's offered a consultant job in the Racing Division at Hunt Radnor Associates, an investigation agency.
His father-in-law Charles comes to visit and asks him to come to his country home to convalesce, which Sid agrees to do.
Charles also mentions he'll have house guests one weekend and that one of them is a greedy land grabber with his eyes on a rundown race course called Seabury.
As it is one of Sid's favourite courses, he does not want to see it closed and developed into subdivisions.
I have not read a Dick Francis book in over 40 years, and I thoroughly enjoyed Against Odds, the story of Sid Halley, a retired steeplechase jockey.
England and steeplechase courses provide a compelling setting as Sid battles to save the demise of racing course slated for a capitalistic venture into housing units.
The story delves into the beautiful versus the ugly, and which is truly good, which reminds me of the two women in High Noon---the black lady and the white lady in her wedding attire.
Dick Francis presents a descriptive book of both setting and characters which stroked the flames concerning steeplechase racing.
Dick Francis is the featured author this month for the Cozy mysteries group here at Goodreads.
I haven't read too many of his stories before, so I thought I'd check out this book.
However, in every story I've read by him, I find the plot riddled with graphic violence and crime.
I prefer my mysteries truly cozy, and I wouldn't really consider his books all that cozy.
Still, I read this book quickly and I was truly enthralled by the overall plot.
I like Sid Halley, and despite the violence and gore, I would be willing to read the other books in that series.
I've come to think of Dick Francis as a safe, predictable read.
Each story, though materially different in circumstance, is crafted around some aspect of horse racing with each unique angle of each story being richly researched and presented as the story unfolds.
In this story, however, I found more grit than expected.
(Read that as a positive.) The climax scene was well presented with dynamic pacing and more protagonist angst than I've come to expect in a Dick Francis novel.
Not to say that his other protagonists are lite weights, rather that he really beats the hell out of this one.
All in all, a great read.
#1 in the Sid Halley series.Sid Halley series - It's amazing what bodily injury can do for a man.
A fall from a racehorse left brilliant jockey Sid Halley dangerously depressed, with a wrecked hand and the need for a new career.
Although he'd been with a detective agency since his racing accident, it isn't until some two-bit hoodlum drills a slug into his side that he is sent out on a case of his own.
That is where he meets Zanna Martin, a woman who just might make life worth living again.
But it is an even-money bet that he will be killed before she has the chance.
Another in the Francis horse racing oeuvre.
I like that in many stories, Francis's characters seem so real.
In this case, though, Francis was starting off a series with a new character, and I think he provided more than the usual personal weaknesses in this one so he could overcome them in upcoming books.
I also note that Francis seems to write a lot of torture and pain scenes in some of his books, and this one is one of those.
But now that I've bought into the first book in the series, I'll look forward to reading the others as well.
Sid Halley, former steeplechase jockey with a crippled hand from a fall, has spent the 2 years since the accident working in a detective agency.
He figures that he is only there as a favor to his father in law, and he doesn't do much at all.
While recovering at his father in laws Charles' home, Charles gets him involved in what he thinks is a scheme to take over a steeplechase race course and turn it in to building lots.
Sid gets interested and gets some of his competitive fire back.
Good book, interesting character.
