https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1111600.The_Wheel_of_Time
This is another series that I had a hard time getting into.
Once I made it through the first couple hundred pages, though, I was hooked.
Seriously hooked.
The series has really colorful characters that are easy to get attached to, it's filled with foreshadowing, and the world that it's based in is really original and beautiful.
So it really came as a shock when I was halfway through book four and I realized that I was reading nothing but descriptions of tapestries and different styles of dresses.
So I read the next 10 or so books thinking that maybe I would ride through the dull parts and it would get amazing again.
I started reading the series in 1994, when I was still in high school and fell in love with it at once.
By the time I started reading, the first 6 books were already released, so to begin with it was just a matter of going to the library to get the next one.
Not only for each new release, but also in the story itself, the pace became slower, and there were more parts that felt like "you had to get through it to get to the good stuff".Me and my sister, who also got hooked, sometimes joked that Robert Jordan would die before he finished the series, but were shocked when it actually happened.
Read the first three and stop.
Its a great standalone trilogy and I think was intended to stop there until the money making possibilities were realized.I wish the story could have continued, I was very excited to read about Mat and the daughter of the nine moons however id rather have not spent three books for the bowl of winds that never got to do much.
Just read the first three and be happy rather than bitter and indignant like the rest of us who got dragged on for decades of our life to get nothing in the end for our loyalty.
The Eye of the World is the first book in the long line that is The Wheel of Time series.
Some are better than others but I liked them all.
They are long and very complicated with an ever expanding story line.
Some people don't like that but I do so these are great books for me.
Very simply put the story follows a small group of people from humble origins that help change their world.
With each new book the story gets more and more vast .
There are about 11 books in the series and they are all quite long.
AM so sad he died before finishing the last book.Liked the first couple the best. The middle ones were ok and the last few were good again.
There were too many main characters and too many things going on for this to be a good book series (and I just finished the entire series last week).
As much as I enjoyed Mat's story, it was totally unnecessary to the main plot except that Jordan kept torturedly returning him to it.
Mat and Perrin should have remained loyal secondary characters.
Jordan could have told Rand's story in three or four books, then moved on the Mat and Perrin if there was interest and demand.
He wrote for the money after all; how else do you explain Books Nine and Ten (The same story twice from different characters).
So far I'm very happy with this series and it's made for a fun summer read - something to sink your teeth into so to speak...
September update: finished series, was about 3/4 way through book 11 when I heard that Robert Jordan has passed away.
Very sad, I suppose everyone leaves with things left undone but it seems particularly sad that RJ didn't get a chance to personally finish telling this story to all his many readers.
I read that he left notes and outlines with his family so I guess it'll be up to them now.
December update: They've announced the author who'll finish the last book using Jordan's notes, etc.
Okay, so I had seen these books a billion times and I was always scared off by the cover art.
Have you seen the cover art on these shits?
However, one day I overheard one of my professors, Dr. Lehtola, talking about World of Warcraft, and naturally I immediately joined that conversation and let her know that I, too, am a geek.
She told me to read this series of books, boldly claiming "It's better than Lord of the Rings".
If you like Lord of the Rings, read this shit.
You're not a real geek if you haven't.
The "Wheel of time" series is by far the best books that i have read.I started reading it last year and couldn't stop till i finished it all.
I was reading some other series when i first saw this.But i stopped it and started reading this.i could't get all the books here.So i got eBooks and read in my computer.The no of characters in these books.
It gets hard to keep track of them all.And the detail Robert Jordan goes to is great.It is a really long story and i wouldn't suggest it to those who doesn't have the patience to read it all.
This is a series of 11 books (only 8 shown in the title above), with the 12th and final yet to be published.
It is a LOT of reading but this is an amazing series if you are into epic fantasy like the Lord of the Rings.
It can get long and there are some plot lines that are less interesting than others, but overall this series has kept me more interested than any other fantasy series.
Just realize that you are getting into a huge, dorky fantasy series with an unthinkable quantity of fictional, impossible to pronounce names.
I started reading this series back in 1992 and it sucked me in!
I fell in love with the characters and the story and would buy the books brand new in hardcover when they were released.
It's hard to keep up with the storylines when you go a couple of years between books.
I just saw a couple of the newer books at Dollar Tree, though, so I've been thinking about getting back into it!I just read in someone else's review that Robert Jordan was up to his 13th book in the series when he passed away in Sept 2007.
okay, so, five stars...that means i like these books better than, say, slaughterhouse five, cloud atlas, love in the time of cholera, and most books ever written right?
i mean, not really.
these books, and others of their ilk (harry potter, LOTR, etc) are something else for me...its almost like comparing movies to tv or tv to theatre, is the most enjoyable tv show better than a great piece of theatre?
who knows.
its just different.
but if you like fantasy (even of the oft derided sword-and-sorcery type) and are willing to give up a year or two of your reading life, you can't go wrong.
This series was ok. I was interested enough that I read the entire thing, but I don't think I would recommend it to my friends. I really enjoyed the first three books, but then it bogged down and became tedious. There would be a great action sequence and then several extremely boring chapters about dresses or other random things not essential to the plot. I was also really bothered that the main character was having a relationship with 3 different women.
The first few books of this series are at the top of my list as some of favorite books ever. Yes- the series does get LONG and somewhat bogged down later, but I love it anyway. There is light at the end of the tunnel with only one more book left to be published. It has been a wonderful- enjoyable ride.What a tragedy that Robert Jordan isn't alive to see the grand finale....
Another favorite set - one that, just like Little House on the Prairie, I maintain on my personal shelves and recommend to students. This Sci-Fi set is very engaging and thoroughly satisfying... it's about time for me to read them again!
A fantastic series. Sometimes it gets bogged down and a little but it always comes back even better than before. I thought we were doomed after Robert Jordan died, but his wife found a wonderful replacement auther in Brandon Sanderson.
God, I love this series. It just sucks you right in. I have been waiting for the last book for a few years now... It might be long (11 books) but it is definitely worth it and u really won't even notice the length.
Robert Jordan has a way of giving great detail to his fantasy world. It's amazing!
entertaining yet annoying
My favorite fiction series of all time. I have read (and re-read) every book in the series that has been published to date. A brilliant fantasy world that is wonderfully epic in scope.
Awesome! In depth characters, no gruesome goryness or sexual stuff, no swearing, and I still can't wait to see how it all turns out in the end. These I reread all the time.
Starts out strong but then drags on...and on...and ON...
A fantastic science fantasy series that draws the reader into wonder and delight. Each book becomes addictive!
The first books were amazing... the series gets a bit out of control and becomes tedious to read at times.
A classic coming-of-age adventure that parallels themes found in my own work. The characters have enjoyable quirky qualities and its themes have been replicated among several modern works that I can think of.
Add to that the the tomb opening (see Glen Cook, Gary Gygax, Dr. Who and Pandora of legend) And I was left wondering if there was anything original in this at all?This series was a huge disappointment and I stopped reading it shortly after it degenerated from a bushido into a harem anime plot complete with multiple women who all are so understanding and just want him to be happy.
Martin is also not worth my time because he writes poorly and I have yet to see an original idea or character in his novels either.That started me thinking.
Jordan's Wheel of Time series was a huge let down for me.
He introduces quite a few too many new characters and spends a lot of time talking about the clothes they are wearing and the goblets of wine they sip.
And then the books begin spending time with petty adolescent arguments between characters who are pouting and stalking off saying "I'll never talk to you again", etc.
I kept wondering how he was going to tie all these ideas together.
I was sad at what happened starting approximately with book 7 and found myself wondering what caused the change where he is losing his sense of the large picture and being caught up with trivia.
I think what you will end up getting with the Wheel of Time series is good writing with poor storytelling and character development.
The series definitely has its moments, but in terms of grittiness and detail it has nothing on George RR Martin's Song of Ice and Fire series and its memorable characters, epic scope, world creation pale to Steven Erickson's Malazan Book of the Fallen series.
The Malazan Book of the Fallen and Song of Ice and Fire are the current standards I use to compare other fantasy series.
I began reading these books as a young teen.
But as I kept plowing through his dense books, I found that at the end of the fourth or fifth book NOTHING had really happened in the thousand pages except to run about and keep tabs on his overly complex world.
As I realized this, I found that the slowing going had come to a halt, and for me, there wasn't a reason to keep reading.
Though, honestly, I probably won't bother to read it when it comes out next year.
I tried reading this series several times before finally being in the right "mood." The first three or four books are pretty good (3-stars) but then there's a long fallow period where NOTHING happens until book 10.Jordan's quirky take on male-female relationships also becomes annoying after 1000+ pages (actually it gets annoying far sooner).Finally, and perhaps the most telling failure of the series, is that there is nothing to fight for.
Understandably, most rational people would like to avoid living in a world ruled by an evil god but the "good guys" of the book ain't so "good" and it's hard to want them to succeed.
The lack of such in the Wheel of Time, I think, detracts from its power.
