https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/815612.Larousse_Gastronomique
For example, if you want to find different ways to cook sole, look up "sole," and the entry will provide an explanation of the subject, tips on how to select and prepare the fish, then different recipes that focus on ingredients rather than step-by-step instructions such as "Turn the oven to 400 degrees...."[return][return]My edition is old, from the '60s or '70s, but it is still is useful to have around.
Larousse Gastronomique is a companion to the kitchen and certainly not a replacement for a cookbook, as the recipes are there more for inspiration than direct instruction.
A reminder that as a child and thru high school my knowledge of the world was greatly dependent on the World Book Encyclopedia and Classic Comics, the precursors to our ability to search for every topic on earth thru the internet. Thanks to Erin and Andrew for this wonderful browsing companion. I find it impossible to read an entry without finding a term or reference that I don't know and need to look up elsewhere in the book.

One of the reference books we turn to when we need to know something that we don't know--with the internet, this is less of a necessary item on every cooks bookshelf, but we are book people, we have hundreds of cookbooks, so we of course have this too and use it farily frequently even to this day--there is alot to know...
Đây là một cuốn sách rất độc đáo, viết nên bởi sự tìm hiểu sâu rộng của tác giả về các vấn đề đời sống như thức ăn, quần áo lót, cờ vua và nhiều thứ nữa...Mình đã không ít lần shock khi đọc về cuộc sống của con người cách đây chỉ vài thập kỉ.
Bên cạnh những thông tin sách cung cấp, còn có rất nhiều hình minh họa hehe.Tuy nhiên mình chỉ cho 4 sao thôi vì đôi lúc hình minh họa không được hài hước cho lắm :))
The constant companion. If I were ever to be in the "big Brother" house and allowed to bring only one book in, this would be it. Who knew there were so many ways to cook and egg? This book took me from someone who could make a passable bowl of spaghetti, to someone not afraid to experiment with tastes and flavour combinations.
Big Book. Lots of outdated dishes but as a historical reference to Classic French foods it is like a bible of sorts. Another book that should be on any cooks shelf.
A bible for food. I have my grandmothers copy.
Then I can cozy up with my food dictionary and ponder how I want to cook up my left over ingredients by using the recipes and methods described in Larousse.Of course I have not read this cover to cover (I shouldn't say of course, because I would love to read it cover to cover some day.) It is essentially a dictionary of everything culinary in the western world, and sometimes beyond.
Larousse is a must have reference book for any aspiring chef.
It follows the typical conundrum of not usually entering one's collection until they are well educated in culinary arts, but I would pick up a copy ASAP if you are thinking of studying food or cooking.
(2009) "Larousse Gastronomique: The World's Greatest Culinary Encyclopedia." Clarkson PotterBrittany BallardType of reference: EncyclopediaCall Number:TX349 .L365 2009Brief Description: This book is a chef's dream!
It not only gives recipes, but also histories of the dishes as well.
Students can learn hoe to cook as well as the history behind the dish.
The information given is a compilation of different techniques and recipes from different chefs, so it is accurate.Arrangement/Presentation: This encyclopedia is broken into categories and spans over 1216 pages.
It also spans over many different types of food from different ethnicities and cultures.
why not!) for "banquet":"During the suppers which Louis XIV was wont to have with the princesses and the ladies at Marly, it sometimes happened that the king, who was very dexterous, amused himself by throwing little rolls of bread at the ladies and allowed all of them to throw them at him.
It is said that Mademoiselle de Vautois, lady-in-waiting to the Princess de Conti, the king's daughter, who was hurt when the king threw a roll at her, threw a salad at him, fully seasoned."Besides having a penchant for definitional exhaustion of terms of French cuisine, ingredients, techniques, and so on, Larousse possesses a finely tuned sense of comedy.
This is a great book for the kitchen of anyone who loves food.
This edition of the classic French reference book is quite beautiful.
This is the first place to turn to for any food related question.
The only problem: this is only the first place to turn to for any food related question.
Some might be annoyed at this, but I imagine those to be the same people who got upset when their high school teachers told them their World Book Encyclopedias were, in fact, not a proper nor complete reference on the history and importance of oysters in New York.
Although I embrace cuisine as a necessary element of culture, I have hitherto been rather an ignoramus in the field.
This Christmas treasure, a gift from good (culinary) friends, was originally devised by Prosper Montagnè, with the first edition in 1938, as a comprehensive guide to matters gastronomic, a serious counterweight to Alexandre Dumas' Grand Dictionnaire de cuisine.
A skim of the contributors to this (2009 English edition, based on the French, 2007) and earlier versions reveals a pantheon of cordon bleu chefs, restauranteurs, academics, scientists, critics, writers, oenologists, sommeliers, confectioners, etc, etc.
No foodie has a complete shelf without a copy of Gastronomique.
It's part of a sturdy foundation for both professional and home cooks, bursting with tons of illustrations and information.
This edition has full color and sharp illustrations and even recipes, an unpretentious look at food and doesn't become condescending when explaining the intricacies of the culinary world.
The translation is smooth and even allows for casual reading.
Mine needs replacing soon from years of spills and stains and very rarely do I get complaints over my cooking.
I really think I owe that to the Gastronomique and a good translation of Escoffier.
Absolutely indespensible as a historical guide to classic cuisine, as well as a byzantine collection of oddities, rare recipes, and general foodie goodness. Some of the recipes are indeed quite dated, from ingredients (crow stuffed with juniper, anyone?) to measurements (take 'some' flour...) However, if I had all the information in this in my head, I could easily cook for the Marquis himself. One entry leads to another, to another, to another, in a spellbinding tome that you will want to read in a kitchen by candlelight.
Larousse Gastronomique is often cited as the best resource for culinary information. It's an enormous book with recipes, biographies, photos, ingredients, preparation techniques, cooking equipment, and food history. If you're looking for basic information, you'd probably be better suited with another guide. But if you're looking for in-depth or authoritative information, this is what you want.
It's only shortcomings are its extraordinary franco-centricity, as well as factual errors here and there. Very useful resource though. Don't bother with recipes from it - obviously not very well tested (it's a reference book, not a recipe book).
You can't argue with the comprehensiveness of this work (although I was looking for a recipe on Panna Cotta the other day and there's no entry for it!), it's just amazing. Obviously there's a big French slant, but that's okay (it's not like you don't know what you're getting).
We selected the name of our dog from this book. I just sit down, flip open to a random page and begin reading and ooing and aaahing over the pictures. The recipes have all been a success so far. Great book.
Although it has great photo's and explanations of techniques, I would not suggest anyone using this book as a "Cook Book". Its useful as a reference book however for the beginner cook to exactly follow the ingredient amounts might not notice that the measurements are often incorrect.
This is the book for anyone that wants to know anything about cooking! It is a very old, very french book that has been translated, however it is like the bible of cooking and techniques! I highly recommend it!
As a enthusiastic culinary student, this book was no less than my college crush. It was my bible. I treasured it like an idol.In this day and age of internet, it isn't as important as it used to be, but I will never forget how I felt when I first read this book, cover to cover!
I'm not French, but I can pretend. Heavy on the butter.
4.5a m a z i n g(but needs more pictures)
Great reference book.
A cooking reference I find indispensable.
Mine is an earlier edition with the same cover. This is a brilliant book, dated but so useful.
It's not the most recent edition, but I totally scored and I'm very very happy!
This book as been my bible for cookery for longer than I care to remember
A solid reference book. Still using after all these years.
