https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/859778.Bears_on_Wheels
A tripped-out Berenstain Bears counting book for very young children. It is very simple and perfectly written with the 3-5 year old in mind. This is before Stan and Jan started the 80s bears, so the beloved bear characters really aren't in this one. The 4 year old liked this book.
Good for beginning readers
I had high expectations for this book. Bears and wheels make for an intriguing combination. However, though I knew there were bears on wheels, I didn't believe there were bears on wheels. Also, instead of letting these bears show the readers that they were on wheels, the authors insisted on constantly telling us that these bears were on wheels. All in all, an utter disappointment.
A great educational book for your younger ones. My twin 3 yr old's loved it. Colorful fun pictures that helps get the child engaged and keeps them engaged. A great addition to any children's library.
One of my all time favorite books as a child.
This book is a fun and funny method of learning to count for a small child! Cute expressions on the bears in the illustrations!
1) Book summary: A cute simple counting book with the bears trying to see how many they can fit on a bike.
3) Appropriate classroom use (subject area): Reading block period 4) Individual students who might benefit from reading: Every child can benefit from learning how to count.
5) Small group use (literary circles): I could ask the students how many bears started on the first bike and how many bears ended on the bike at the end of the book.
7) Related books in genre/subject or content area : Bears in the night, and The big honey hut 8) Multimedia connections (audio book, movie) available: Hardcover, Paperback, Textbook binding
I enjoyed this book as a child because I thought it was fun and silly. As an adult, I like it because of the basic math skills it teaches my child.
II
4/5 ⭐ great read from childhood found this and figured I’d read it. I loved the Berenstain Bears when I was younger.
4/5 ⭐️ great read from childhood found this and figured I’d read it. I loved the Berenstain Bears when I was younger.
And I end up talking about text messaging18 November 2013 It seems as if the Berenstains can do no wrong, that is if their goal is to write a bunch of books with no plot whatsoever, yet are still entertaining, and in some ways amusing. Yes, I know, this is a kid's book, but shouldn't kid's books actually have a plot. Well, I guess it depends on the purpose of the kid's book. I guess the genius of these books is that they have no plot, but they teach children to read and they do it in a most ente
And I end up talking about text messaging18 November 2013	It seems as if the Berenstains can do no wrong, that is if their goal is to write a bunch of books with no plot whatsoever, yet are still entertaining, and in some ways amusing.
I guess the genius of these books is that they have no plot, but they teach children to read and they do it in a most entertaining way.
I guess that is the essence of language, being able to understand the meaning of the words in a way that other people also understand them.
But before I go on a rant about the absence of reading in children's life, I'll talk about this book, Bears on wheels, and the significance of it.
Spoilers fall below (not that there's much to spoil) The children's books Bears on wheels by Dr.Seuss is one of many that will help children take their first steps into being able to read.
Like most children's books, they all aim to do two things: teach the child how to read, and make a few chuckles happen as well.
As a challenge, students can create their own math problems from using the book.
Students can see a contrast in bears and make fractions on how many bears on the bicycle.
Students can write the fraction of blue bears 2/3 and the fraction of pink bears 1/3, and add them to together 2/3 + 1/3 = 3/3 (1) on one unicyle.It is an introduction to wheels (transportation through bicycles).
Students can learn how many people should be one different types of bicycles.It can be an reinforcement of learning book genres.
Students can learn that bears dont ride bicycles or have multiple people on one bicycle.
Boring book literally about bears being on wheels.Wow, this is a super boring book.
It is literally bears on wheels.
A bear on a unicycle, somebody jumps on his shoulders, then other bears jump on top of him.
Somebody has a bicycle, there's some guy with a five-wheel bicycle, and different numbers of bears piled on top of different numbers of wheels.
They get in crashes, and bears go flying through the air, and that's it.
This is one of the earlier Berenstain Bear books, and it shows.
The illustrations make it perfect, as he's constantly getting jumped on, or falling off, or colliding with other bears.There are only a few words per page, with a basic vocabulary, so this one is perfect both for early readers and for little-little ones learning to talk.
However, don't expect it to help your child learn to count, it's not really a good book for that.
It starts out with one bear on one wheel.
But it always goes back to one bear on one wheel many times throughout the story.
Make sure to read the story yourself, or to your children, and expect a fun, mouth-tiring book.
As it changes the amounts of bears and wheels many times, it always returns to one bear on one wheel which makes it a circle story.
That is always a fun reading strategy that children love to read!
Not many children will say they have seen bears on wheels, so this is an interesting book for children.
This book is a quick way to get children started on their reading and math skills.
The captions describe how many bears there are on the bike each time a new one gets on so it gives the chance for the reader to actually count how many bears there are.
The captions are simple to read, so there isn't a chance for the child to get bored of it because of how capturing the counting and illustrations are.
I definitely recommend this book for a child getting ready to read and to get ready for math.
The words are simple and the illustrations are just as simple.
There are only a few words on each page and the illustraions are very subtle usually only conatining one character.
This story as contains a lot of repetition, this allows children to read the same word multiple times and help with their recognition and literacy of the same word.
Hopefully helping them learn it.
You could use this book within a math lesson and children would have a great time and be totaly unaware that they were actually learning something.
This is a book about counting.
I would use this book in a classroom for early age children just learning how to count.
Books like this are great for early readers because they are engaging and they teach students how to count.
It is important to find ways that are interesting to bring into early learning classrooms and this book would be great for that.
It could be incorporated into a math lesson where the students read this book and then take the skills they have seen and apply them to a math lesson.
This book is not like the normal Berentain bear books because it does not focus on brother and sister bear.
It focuses on bears as they ride different types of cycles.
They fit as many bears on a unicycle as they can, or they ride a two seater together.
They get up to 10 bears on a unicycle at one time, and they have 10 bears parachuting at the same time on the next page.
The illustrations of this book are basic, with the roads being yellow, and the bears and the cycles being the only other thing colored in on the page, and everything else is white.
I have always loved the Berenstain books, and this one is a classic.
This book has so much to offer teachers that are trying to teach counting, number sense, and even division.
The literature in this book expresses number sense throw number words and the pictures help the students to count if they can’t recognize the number word.
I would use this book teach division because it is comparing bears to wheels, which can be arranged into a division problem were the wheels represent the denominator and the bears represent the numerator.
I would also use this book to teach addition.
This short children's picture book is a book that helps young readers learn how to count and read. It is a very fun story that involves bear rides bikes with different numbers of wheels. The bears switch from bike to bike, fall off bikes, ride on shoulders, and other eventful things. I love this story because it is very fun and engaging for young students learning how to read. Not only does it teach reading but it also helps with beginning counting skills.
O.K., now THIS one was more like it. It's easy to read and FUNNY! It's all these bears riding BIKES! And who cares if real bears don't ride bikes. It was that good. FUNNY! Ten stars.If these bears have more books like this one, I can see why some kids like them. I just had to keep trying. And it worked!You know what a clue is? The dumb ones I read were all square, but this one was shaped like a real book [a rectangle]. So I'm going to look for more book ones and not the square ones.
This is a great level 1 reader to help boost self esteem of beginning readers. Simple words and repeatative on each page will help them learn fast and bring smiles to their faces. Uses bears and bicycles. You can also use these illustrations to help children to learn counting by asking the child to count or to pick out 'which bear is dressed in blue" "in pink" etc. You can use this book for speech therapy; or for reading.
This book is a children's book about a bunch of bear on wheels, and the purpose about this book is to teach children how to count. I think this a great book for children because it is simple and will teach little children how to read and count. Little kids books are the building blocks to their learning not just from reading but also concepts like math. Since i am going to school for elementary education i would highly recommend this book.
It's funny how the simplest concepts can make the most fun children stories. My kids love this book and I can't help but find it funny, too. That poor unicycle riding bear! Following a young bear just trying to enjoy a leisurely trip only to be constantly fending off other bears looking to get a free ride is not something I ever would have thought of. It's counting, it's math, it's an amusing escapade!
Nick is highly resistant to reading any book he hasn't been exposed to previously. So it was particularly delightful to watch his expression change from sullen to gleeful laughter as he read through this easy book about bears and wheels in increasingly absurd configurations. There were only two words he was unsure of, and one he figured out on his own, meaning it was exactly the right difficulty level, too.
This book repeats a lot. It would be good to get children to recognize short words. Most of the words in this book could be sight words and would be a great teaching strategy to get children to remember sight words. It is also a great book for math. It counts the bears and the wheels. You could have the children count each bear and wheel.
This book is only for very young children (3 or under). After that is becomes a bit redundant. I tired using this as a math book for some preschoolers and they were quickly bored. Too easy and repetitive for them. I love Berenstain Bears books and the art is still fun but the story is bland overall. Great for the kids just learn numbers though.
This book used repetition to make it easy for early readers. It was so simple, but so fun. The counts of bears and wheels changed page by page. It was pretty much non-sense, but it was enjoyable. I liked the mathematical element of the counting. It was more advanced because it wasn't just the typical sequential counting.http://www.momsradius.com/2015/10/qua...
