https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19161880-a-hell-of-a-woman
Down on his luck salesman Frank Dillon meets a girl named Mona who's being abused and practically put on the street corner by her elderly aunt.
When Dillon finds out the aunt has over a hundred thousand dollars hidden in the house, he plans to kill her and run off with Mona.
Unfortunately, this book was written by Jim Thompson...Nobody writes noir tales about the wheels coming off an already shaky plan like old Mr. Cheerful himself, Jim Thompson.
Man meets woman, bumps off someone in order to be with her, then quickly descends into madness.Frank Dillon coming unglued is a testament to Jim Thompson's skill as a writer.
While making his rounds Dolly meets Mona, a young woman who is being pimped out her by nasty old aunt, and Dolly finds himself sympathetic towards her even though he’s got his hands full with his own problems at work.In some ways this is a typical noir story with a small time loser coming up with a criminal scheme to get the better life he thinks he deserves.
I didn’t much care for the last chapter which knocked this down a bit for me.It’s exactly what you’d expect from Jim Thompson telling this kind of story, and that’s pretty damn good.
"L'enfer, c'est les autres"- Jean-Paul Sartre, No ExitThere is only so much Jim Thompson one should read in a summer.
Look, this isn't his best pitch.
But still, reading this Dimestore Dostoevsky is going to bend you no matter how this book measures up to Thompson's other stuff.
The women hurt and the money doesn't help.
Life isn't fair.
Women are hard.
It all becomes that much more complicated when you are beat down and a bit crazy to boot.
Some people never catch an easy day.
This book is for the poor, the misunderstood, the downtrodden.
these 3 star ratings reflect a lack of consistency as thompson was a pulpdrunk piece-of-shit meet-a-deadline writer who could reach great heights but then'd mar the work with some sloppyass booshit.
just as simenon, in response to a question asking if he had a 'great' book in him, said that all his slim, singularly focused books were mere tiles in a great mosaic, i kinda think thompson's oeuvre adds up to something greater than the sum of its parts.
we like.
we like.
we like a lot.
This is the first Jim Thompson book I've read (don't know why it took so long), but it was definitely an experience.
The story starts out with a fairly simple and familiar noir plot, focusing on a door-to door salesman who gets smitten for a meek, but strangely attractive young woman, and hatches a plot to steal some dough from her aunt, who's a down-right deplorable old witch that pimps out her niece to everyone around town.
WHAT AN ENDING!I'm excited to get into his other novels!
Any author that has the balls to write a line like the one below, is definitely one to get excited about:"...even the puke was beautiful like everything else."
Better still, that genre takes him places he maybe couldn't get otherwise - through some sordid, creepy acts of violence and scenes of dialogue reminiscent of Crime and Punishment in their potential double-meanings, which play on the paranoiac narrator's nerves to the point of near-insanity.
There's a scene around the middle of Woman in which the narrator, Frank 'Dolly' Dillon, is suddenly confronted with a 'Where did you get that money?' by a character we know has been playing it coy for several pages, and even though we see it coming it's chilling, because what we can't know is just how Dolly will react, given that he's been lulling himself in a dream-world by deliberately taking things at face value.
This is vintage Jim Thompson--a story filled with irredeemable characters and lots of sex, violence and alcohol.
Frank Dillon is an outside salesman/collector for a company that preys on low-income people.
And all he has to do to get both the girl and the cash is kill a couple of people who desperately deserve killing.
But poor Frank doesn't know that he's wandered into Jim Thompson country and that things are probably not going to turn out well.
A masterclass in noir, A Hell of a Woman delves into crime, paranoia, passion, and madness. It also has some of my favorite noir tropes, such as a rude, no-nonsense protagonist and a metric ton of witty smart-mouthing.
Since it was my last $3.95 I had to go downtown and donate my blood so I could have more money for books.I read "A Hell Of A Woman" lying on a gurney pumping my plasma for book dough, and the transfusion didn't make my blood run cold, this awesome novel did.
A credit shark named "Dolly" kills an old woman who holds her stuttering imbecile of a niece captive so he can play house with her.
The climax to the book is unlike anything ever written and has to be read to be believed.
Good plot, good suspense. Displays Thompson's mastery of twisted perspective shifts. Kind of just sinks into a hellhole at the end, like a fair amount of his fiction does.
Thus, since beginning to read noir in an orderly way, I've read the first two novels of Charles Williams, the first three of Raymond Chandler, the first six or seven by Cornell Woolrich, etc.
At some point, I'll start with the first Jim Thompson book, and begin working my way through his canon in an orderly fashion, too, and when I reach (and re-read) my Thompson favorites, I will post comments about them.
But this is where I am supposed to clarify that A Hell of a Woman is a groundbreaking mess that helped to pave the way for noir fiction to be taken seriously as art, right?
Offered the services of the sex slave as payment for goods he quickly turns down the offer (one of his very few redeemable moments) and sets out to free Mona.
Having had upwards of five wives already, it’s clear for the reader to discern a pattern in Dolly’s actions and warped sense of thought.A HELL OF A WOMEN is pure noir.
Dolly has little to no redeeming qualities, violence is easy and without emotion, and the ending isn’t all sunshine and rainbows.
The plot itself was entertaining but was soured by a confusing last couple of pages where Dolly’s mind is put in question in almost no uncertain terms.
Sure fire formula for a great book....completely messed up, unreliable narrator who degenerates into madness. I despise people who don't accept responsibility for their actions, but somehow I forgive it in a Jim Thompson character. Frank Dillon is such a heel that I had to laugh at him. Crazy ass ending as usual....sort of a split-screen drug experience thing..... I've never read anything like it, except Thompson.
"There's just some guys that get the breaks, and some that don't. And me, I guess you know the kind I am." Not my favourite Jim Thompson novel, but a great read nonetheless, with a complex narrator and a plot that twists and turns in a dozen different ways.
"Dolly" Dillon is an SOB in the classic Thompson vein.
Joyce is interesting in that even after she makes a break and leaves Dolly, she's not done.
Poor Mona lived the life of an abused innocent.
This is hell, after all, and they don't call it hell for nothing.Thompson doesn't seem to tell his readers everything, just enough for us to want to fill in the blanks between the lines, and the missing blocks in a passage of time.
Perhaps we readers of Thompson are in training to achieve the necessary objectivity with which to view ourselves through the story arc of our own lives.
When I finished this book, it was a beautiful day in Rome. The birds were twittering, the sun was glinting through the trees and all seemed well with the world. Except I was reading a book by Jim Thompson. My word, that man was dark.
Fortunately, it's just as strong as those aforementioned books, and if you're a Jim Thompson fan, I suggest you give this one a go.The main character Frank "Dolly" Dillon is a pretty standard Thompson protagonist; he's ruthless, bibulous, hostile toward women, looking for an angle, and an unreliable narrator.
Reading Savage Art, Robert Polito's excellent and exhaustive biography of Thompson, helped me realize how much of Frank Dillon's personality was similar to Jim Thompson's.
Dillon gets propositioned to trade a silverware set for an assignation with Mona.
A HELL OF A WOMAN is a hell of a book, but if you've read much Jim Thompson you know that already.
The end of every chapter throws a new wrench in the works, making this a gripping read that's hard to put down.It's difficult to identify any significant flaws in this work, so the only reason I don't give it five stars is simply because it doesn't top my favorites by Thompson (which include The Killer Inside Me, Savage Night, and The Getaway).
This is top-shelf crime fiction that you'd be hard-pressed to beat with anything from your average library.
This is a new experience for me, i havent read an avreage JT novel before and this was less than i expect from his kind of noir stories of characters with depth, the tight storytelling driven by the many compelling characters.
This novel the only character with depth, written decently compared to what i have come to expect from Thompson is the POV lead role Frank "Dolly" Dillion.
He is unreliable narrator, disgusting pig when it comes to women, a real loser even in his own mind but at-least he was not bland like the other prominent characters of the novel.
I don't know what the new, modern cover is supposed to illustrate but THIS ->>   depicts the opening scene. And who knew you could get away with publishing such a perverse and sexual set-up back then? In fact, if adjectives like dark, perverse, sexual, and bleak make you prick up your ears, this is your book. They don't get much more noir than this.
Dostoevsky without hope.

Sleazy, violent, misogynistic and black as pitch: welcome to the world of Jim Thompson.
Somewhere along the way he thinks he's going to rescue the girl, but then he patches things up with his wife.
And I mean he really goes off the deep end.
(view spoiler)[I'm not sure what happens in the end (the ending is notorious for its violence), but Dolly goes into a total fugue state and possibly castrates himself.
(hide spoiler)] The ending is broken up into italics and non-italics, which represents two states of mind, where you see two possible outcomes for Dolly's life.
The average joe character in A Hell of a Woman is named Dillon.
In order to enhance both of their lives, Dillon and Mona, become tangled up in a plot which involves murder, theft, and lies.From page 84 on I felt like I was on a tilt-a-whirl while experiencing a fever dream.
The avant-garde moments (of which Thompson incorporates in his work) are absolutely enjoyable and give the story added layers of complexity.
This is where Thompson shines and his work transcends simple crime fiction by dipping a toe in interpretative literature.
Frank "Dolly" Dillon is a salesman/money collector selling and collecting for cheap garbage with a huge mark up, but has been skimming his payouts and doctoring the paperwork.
Because he's such a great guy, he doesn't take up with the girl, instead plots to kill the miserly crone and start a new life with this helpless girl.
Frank lies, makes excuses, contradicts himself, pleads for understanding, and sometimes gets it, but every time you start to sympathize, Frank changes up his story.
It doesn't end well for Frank, or anyone he comes in contact with for that matter, but when does it ever work out in a Thompson novel?
Pulp fiction at its finest.I first knew about Jim Thompson's work from seeing some of their film adaptations, things like 'The Getaway' and 'The Grifters' (though I haven't read those two novels).
Once I saw 'After Dark, My Sweet', I kept it in the back of my mind to get around to reading its source material - and I eventually did read that one.
I'll keep it in mind to get around to more of his work.
The crime world is not really among my favorite worlds of fiction - but when it's handled with distinctive style (as it is here), I'm in.
Apparently there was some dispute between Thompson and the publisher as to how the experimental section at the end was typeset -- whatever, I'm kind of shocked they allowed freaky post-modernist shit like that to be used in a crime novel.
For my money, it doesn't work, but that kind of freakout is part of what makes Thompson interesting; he'd try anything to lay his booze-addled, brain-damaged misanthropic hateful vision of the world on people, to make them suffer with the burden of, as he put it, "A bucket of shit with a barbed-wire handle." The barbed wire's never been sharper or rustier, the shit never stinkier or heavier than in this book.
With the small matter of a hidden stash of 100,000 dollars greed, lust and murder all conspire to drag Frank into his own personal hell, gradually losing his mind.
As usual with Jim Thompson the delicate balance of life slowly starts to disintegrate as Frank realises that he’s just born to lose.
A Hell of a Woman is another typical twisted crime novel from the one of those rare authors who turns pulp fiction into literary magic.
Although for me not as powerful or spellbinding as The Killer Inside Me, this novel still manages to shock and impress like much of Jim Thompson’s dark crime work.
The last few pages, in which the protagonist has a mental breakdown, is written in alternating lines of conflicting consciousness: its among the most evocative, frightening, and beautiful prose I've read.
The protagonist, a sleazy door-to-door salesman, is the epitome of the Thompson archetype: he fears betrayal because he, himself, has no loyalties, and sees no justification for them; his over-confidence is equaled only by his paranoia; and his failure to get a grip on his life is, ultimately, a human tragedy all too common and one in which we must empathize with.
Among Thompson's best works.
The story of a man, a woman, and money that doesn't belong to them: that's the plot of a bunch of Jim Thompson books, but few of them go as nightmarish in the final pages, and that's saying something when you remember...oh, just about anything else he wrote after the first three books.
There's a temptation when reading a book like this to fly through the words just to see in what specific way this one will go wrong, but if you can slow down, do so.
There's just so much here that's worth savoring, even if every bit of it is drunk with blood and mean as hell.
