https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/534733.Rising_Tides
Great series! awesome and interesting storyline that dealt with what brotherhood meant..this was the best book in the series i think..good storytelling and writing (paperback!)
The abuse he suffered has kept him from acting on his feelings for young single mother Grace Monroe, but with Seth in the picture, Ethan finds that not only has his life drastically changed, but he can't keep his feelings for Grace a secret any longer.This is yet another highly enjoyable book from Nora Roberts.
She was a real sweetheart.One of the great things about this book, and common to NR trilogy books, is that even though the book focuses on one couple (in this case Ethan and Grace) you still get plenty of the other characters.
It really helps you to know them better and develops this amazing sense of family and togetherness.And another great thing about the book is the progression of Seth's story.
This time story focus is on Ethan, the second brother, continuing directly after the last book ended.
Nora deals with some heavy themes in these books as each and every single brother in Quinn's household went through many traumatic events of each kind.
The boat building business the three (now four) of them started was going smoothly and the situation settles down for a bit.Ethan has admired their housekeeper from afar - is in love with her for years, but his traumatic past makes him unable to approach her and tell her the truth.
☑ Relationships of the Quinns and that of Ethan and Grace
*Review without spoilers*  Ray and Stella had taken them in, three half-grown boys, all wild, all damaged, all strangers. And had made them a family.Oh, my, Grace thought with her nose pressed up against the window. Oh, my. If she’d ever seen two more impressive examples of the male form, she couldn’t say when. She’d only intended to sneak a quick glance. Really. Just one innocent little peek. But then Ethan had peeled off his shirt and...  Another multiple re read I don’t tire of...This book pi
Contrary to Cam, he likes to think things thoroughly before making his moves.
“Because she’s rock-steady, pretty as a picture, patient as Job, and she’s got enough humor about life to tickle out yours.”But the fact was, growing up, there had only been two things she’d wanted.
The dance, and Ethan Quinn.“Damn, she’s the best thing that ever happened to you.
There were shadows in those eyes that Ethan also recognized.
Grace is the first woman, he trully trusts and loves and he has more things in commun with Ethan that he thinks.
The second book in the series picks up right where Sea Swept left off - Anna and Cam are on their honeymoon, Phillip is commuting to the house on the bay every weekend to help build the new boat and care for their new brother, Seth. Seth is finally blending into his new family with help from Ethan, the steady, thoughtful, fisherman/craftsman who now has his eyes set on something more than just the next crab pot. But can he let go of his past in order to finally move forward? What I Liked: -The c
The second book in the series picks up right where Sea Swept left off - Anna and Cam are on their honeymoon, Phillip is commuting to the house on the bay every weekend to help build the new boat and care for their new brother, Seth.
Ethan and Grace are clearly the focus of this book, and we learn about their depth of emotion and past struggles.
And we also continue to learn more about all the other characters that were introduced in the first book as well.
This book needs a major trigger warning: there is child abuse.
Although it's in the past it is still very disturbing.
Ethan had a horrific childhood.
By the time the Quinn's saved him he was almost dead and completely without hope.
They helped him to heal but he still carried a hurt on his soul and never saw himself worthy of love, marriage and especially children.
Grace always loved him.
She is willing to work hard and gives heartily to others, but her pride keeps her from Ethan.
This is a beautiful love story and hard to put down.
"No voy a ser capaz de darte la oportunidad de vivir sin mí, después de todo."Enamorada es poco de esta historia.
Creí que el primer libro de La Bahía iba a ser insuperable, me equivoqué.
La historia de Ethan me ha durado un día, lo he devorado y lo he cerrado con ganas de más.
Quiero seguir leyendo a estos hermanos, aunque creo que me quedo con Ethan y su carácter pensativo, su fragilidad, su fuerza.Cada vez tengo más claro que los libros de Nora Roberts escritos antes del 200-2005 son los mejores que tiene: atemporales, llenos de sentimientos trabajados, dulces, llenos de oscuridad y superación.
you know,until I discovered this author I considered myself a practical, levelheaded and down-to-Earth kind of woman.
Where's the practicality when you get all mushy and soft by reading a book?
All I have to say is that I adore the way this author writes cont-romance and I truly hope she never stops.While I was worried sick I wouldn't like this book because Ethan and Grace seemed a bit boring and steady, I was thrilled to see I was completely wrong and both of them had temper.
The whole "I'm tragically flawed and must be alone" thing was rather self-indulgent and that stood against every other aspect of his life.That said, Grace was nine kinds of awesome, even if (view spoiler)[she did go kind of stupid with the whole assuming Ethan just needed her to take the steps to advance their relationship.
While it was a little cheap how the scenes played into Ethan's insecurities in certain ways, (view spoiler)[I also appreciated how Grace was able to turn that into a positive by owning her appreciation for and participation in their (very mild) demand/surrender sex play as an equally responsible partner.
I am often amazed when I read a Nora Roberts book.
The opening of this book is just so lovely in terms of place, feeling, and character.
I love that Ethan is a working class hero and so devoted to his family.
The loved forever theme is a fun one and Grace is great as well.Roberts writing shines but I am kept from falling in love with this book because I want to send Ethan to therapy and want what happens at the end of the book to occur in the middle of the book so that we get a love story of acknowledged equals rather than 95% of the story with Ethan doing what he thinks is best instead of evolving.
Another sweet read. I liked Ethan and Grace although Ethan was a bit stubborn at times. I know he had a tough upbringing prior to meeting the Quinns, but ...Interesting storyline about Seth. Want to keep reading so that I find out what the little mystery is but might wait a while. I really think some of these older kindle books should be a bit cheaper!! But that is just me, probably.Nice to catch up with the characters from the first book.
¡Muy bonito! Me han gustado mucho las personalidades de Ethan y Grace, serenos pero fuertes y luchadores. Pensaba que el final iba a ser un poco más profundo pero aún así me gustó que la tranquilidad y parsimonia explotara. Si he visto algunos fallos con respecto al libro anterior, como el nombre del perro, los años que tenían o algunas fechas que te estropea un poco la lectura. Pero en conjunto muy bonito y entretenido.
I am in tears.
I knew that it would be very emotional to read it again - even after all those years.
But I never thought that it would touch me again like it did, when I read it the first time many years ago.
A beautiful and touching saga ...This is one of the most beautiful series, Nora Roberts has ever written.
No matter how long it has been since Ive read those series the first time, it is always a pleasure to re-read it.
And everytime I do so I find something new that catches my eye and get
And everytime I do so I find something new that catches my eye and get again touched by it.Nora Roberts writing style in this saga is a bit different from the style her books show today.
But despite that, this series is beautiful in its setting, shows the perfect amount of feelings, bad situations, what family means and can be like and that there is nothing greater than being loved and to feel it.After Cam and Anna its now Ethan´s and Grace´s turn to step onto the emotional rollercoaster.
The wellbeing of a young boy is all that matters to the three grown up Quinn brothers Ethan, Cam and Phillip.
Ellos ya tienen una base.Pero creo que todo se vino a bajo para mí cuando Grace toma cartas en el asunto, no sé, me pareció tan desesperada por Ethan.
(hide spoiler)]Aunque luego se resolvió todo, Grace resultó tener razón, y le concedo un punto a medias.
Me gusta de este libro porque se nota que cada uno de los hermanos tiene una relación distinta con Seth.
Unas ganas terribles de abrazarlos.En fin, aunque todo decayó un poco con la persecución de Grace, el libro me gustaba bastante.
Ethan had a few too many me-Tarzan-you-Jane moments during the first half of this book, and I wasn't wild about the revelation that Grace had been practically pining for him all these years.
Unfortunately, it lost another star right around the time Grace started daydreaming in her kitchen about how Ethan might propose, when they'd been together for all of one week.
(view spoiler)[And as much as I didn't particulaly agree with Ethan either, I draw the line at ultimatums.
Everyone giving Ethan an ultimatum that it was either marriage to Grace or nothing at all made me bristle; it actually drew me into his camp instead of Grace's.
NR already wrote this story, only she titled it The Heart of Devon MacKade.
The similarities are far too many to count between the two.
It's actually a bit ridiculous!
So why am I not pissed that I just paid to read virtually the same story twice?
Because this simple story appeals to me on so many levels.
You got the small town community where everybody knows everybody.
Not to mention the ridiculously hot brothers!!!
NR added just enough subtle changes to this story to make it it's own so I was able to enjoy it all the same.
She knows her stuff.
(view spoiler)[ So anyways, just the fact that Grace forced Ethan into proposing by saying he either marry her or they are over (and the way she went about their whole relationship) left a bitter taste in my mouth...
(hide spoiler)]Now, Ethan was another story - his reason for not wanting to get married was somewhat reasonable...
(hide spoiler)] What I didn't understand was how his HUGE issue ended up being solved after a 10 minute conversation with his pushy sister-in-law-shrink-Anna!
I honestly don't understand why he would be against Grace and Ethan together, but NOT against Cam and Anna together?!
With some help and push from Anna, Cam’s wife (who I absolutely adore…see my review on her story Sea Swept http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33...}, Grace shows Ethan what she wants…him.These two are such a sweet and adorable couple.[image error]I loved their story and enjoyed seeing the closeness and love between the growing Quinn family.
Love the bond between him and little Audrey….[image error] My favorite scene in this book is when Ethan is getting ready for his date with Grace – Cam is naturally helping him get himself together, when Anna suddenly appears demanding to know who stole her flowers.
I don’t think this book, the second in the series, is a “stand-alone”; definitely Ethan and Grace’s on-going story would be enjoyed more if the first one, Sea Swept (Cam & Grace’s story), were read first.The Quinns are three men, abused as children (some sexually), who were adopted by a loving couple (both now deceased).
Each story is how they deal with the ongoing mystery surrounding their father’s car crash (suicide or accident?), and coping with the angst surrounding the last young boy, Seth, their father was in the process of adopting.
**The book was originally part of The Quinn Brothers Trilogy, but then Seth’s story was added.
He punches Ethan in the face twice, and a few more times in the stomach.
So stupid.The way I see it: you shouldn't hit someone that can't hit you back.
A woman shouldn't hit a man, because the man can't hit back (without being considered evil, anyway).
I don't know, maybe I'm just not a fan of violence.It pissed me off that Anna butted her unwanted head into Ethan's business.
And then, of course, Ethan NEVER gets angry when people spout out thousands of insults his way.
So sad to give the second book in the Chesapeake Bay Saga 3 stars after I gave the first book 5, but I didn't love it like I loved the first one.Rising Tides continues the story of the Quinn brothers, though focusing on Ethan (the second kid Ray and Stella Quinn adopted) and Grace, a single mother who's been in love with him since always (and who Ethan has been in love with since always as well).The book is actually too focused on them, on their romance.
So much better than book one. I love Nora's series when they focus on siblings such as this. All of their pasts are heartbreaking, but so far Ethan's has been the hardest. The romance in this book was good, but it was how Ethan and Seth connected that really touched me.
Hubo momentos en que peca de paternalista con Grace pero se entiende por qué hace lo que hace y es desde un buen lugar, lo que quiero decir es que no tiene un pensamiento machista que lo respalde, sino que él es así con todas las personas a las que ama.
Fue una buena lectura, me hizo reír y llorar pero después de haber pasado la primera mitad ya me aburrió y me quedo la sensación de que no pasó nada relevante en toda la historia.
Además de que el aspecto paranormal me pareció innecesario, es algo que personalmente no me gusta.
I liked this one, but Ethan frustrated me to no end with his attitude towards Grace.
I loved it that Anna helped Grace go after Ethan.
The girls friendship should worry the brothers, they will have them all wrapped around their fingers all the while subtly ripping them a new one when they need it.While I liked where things ended with Ethan and Grace, for me the highlight of the book was the tough truth that Ethan laid out for Seth.
Seth needed to hear the horrid things that happened to Seth, to know that you can get past it with the love and care of people you trust.
This one is just as good as the first.
Even though it's more centered on the romance, the family theme is still a strong element and that's a good thing.
Ethan has got to be the most controlled guy I've read about in a long time.
But man, once or twice there I wanted to give him a kick in the rear to get him moving a bit faster.
LOL!
I like how Ray isn't a big central element of the story.
He doesn't really reveal anything not already known and he doesn't interfere, just seems to reaffirm the love and values that the boys learned from him and Stella.
*Buddy listening with Blacky <333*Here's the link to my previous review: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
The characters are quiet, hard-working, and pleasant.THE SERIES:The Chesapeake Bay series includes four books which tell a continuing story about a family.
In the beginning of the first book Ray took in another boy, 10-year-old Seth, who was abused by his mother Gloria.
The fourth book tells the story of Seth, who is grown, returns home and falls in love.
He has secretly loved Grace for years but never acted on it.
The relationship will happen only if Grace makes the first moves, because Ethan will never act on his feelings.REVIEWER’S OPINION:Book 2 is good but not great.
Ethan Quinn. The quiet one. The steady one. Always staying close to home, living on and for the water. Because of his past and dark secrets buried in that past, he's decided long ago never to marry, never to have a family. And because of that he thinks he can never have the one woman he loves, the one he's loved forever—Grace Monroe.Unfortunately he didn't consider his sister-in-law's stubbornness. Or Grace's determination.While the first book in this quartet,   Sea Swept  , delivered on the pro
And while I love me some slow moving stories, the slowness sometimes helps in keeping things real, this one was just too slow.
Sure, things happened between Ethan and Grace, but I simply didn't care.
I really could not have cared less whether they actually ended up together.Beside Ethan and his slowness that had mostly to do with Grace.
Sheesh.Also there was no camaraderie between brothers, the interactions I came to love in the Cam's book.
So Ethan didn't want to get married.
Would he still be the big, bad Ethan?

Not as good as the first in the series, but will persevere with number 3.
