https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/339218.Riders
Well, well, well, what a lovely surprise.I picked up this book on the recommendation of last month's Goodreads newsletter, which said Riders was a solid summer read.
Then I went to my local Barnes & Noble, found the only copy in stock and was instantly dismayed by the book's heft (more than 900 pages!) and its ridiculous cover art depicting a huge close up of tight, white riding pants stretched taut over a voluptuous woman's ass, cupped by a man's hand.
My Anglophelia's been starving, however, and I had to feed it: Goodreads was right -- this is the perfect summer read.This is a fun book.
Original thoughts: I read this in my teens in the 80s and loved it.
Rampant Rupert stole my innocence, but it was beautiful Billy who stole my heart!Today's thoughts:25+ years later, I couldn't wait to meet Billy again as I buddy-read this book with my good friend Jemidar, but discovered that what the teenage heart and the 40-something heart want are two different things.
The heart doesn't break, it just moves on ;-p But the real star of the whole show for me this time was feisty adorable Fen, who took on the boys and won.
Drama, drama, drama,,, but, oh, so much fun! I was in the mood to read something light and a lil bit scandalous. This novel fit that bill perfectly. It won't win any literary awards but, oh, it was so enjoyable. In addition to being highly entertaining... I,actually, learned a great deal about show jumping. Highly recommend if your looking for a sexy, fast paced, compulsively addicting read.
I'm pretty sure the blurb on the cover of my copy read "Sex and horses--it just doesn't get any better" or something like that, and I suppose that's really the best review.
But the progress of the book into and out of my life is also a testament to its effects on readers:A paperback copy of Riders was loaned to me by the director of a school where I worked.
In fact, I moved away with her copy of Riders to another state, a state with more horses, no less.

I had to do an inter-library request to get this book (for some reason, my well-stocked urban library system doesn't have a copy of Cooper's classic literary masterpiece), and when I asked the peppy blonde girl behind the counter to retrieve it for me, she came back waving it proudly, asking, “Is this it?!”How I responded: “Uh, yep.
I volunteer at the library every week, processing hold requests and shelving, so I know for a fact other people have checked out far more appalling books than Riders.
I know very little about horses and was actually unaware that such a sport as show jumping existed, but Cooper's book focuses equally on a second topic that is, shall we say, familiar to us all.
Our main characters are Jake Lovell, a Gypsy underdog, and the first showing of Rupert Campbell-Black (who will appear in future books by Jilly Cooper), the good-looking rogue of the horsy set who jumps in and out of beds with no thought to the consequences.There are masses of other characters that people the pages of this huge tome.
I love Billy - he is one of the few characters who, despite flaws, is consistently a person to have sympathy for.The book is long and rambling and could do with a little more structure, although Cooper's research is excellently done.
Really 3.5 stars.Totally trashy but fun 1980s bonkbuster. Horses, sex, scandal and 80s fashion; what more could you possibly want?And many thanks to my reading buddy Anna who set such a cracking pace that I achieved a personal best for the least amount of days it's ever taken me to read a 900+ page book. I feel like I've run a marathon and dropped exhausted but grateful over the finish line in the early hours of this morning :-).
I had assumed that Jilly Cooper books were written mainly for girls, rather than boys.
Maybe they are.Another reason why I didn't expect to like the book is that it's about showjumping, which has never really got me going.
I've re-read it numerous times, always in the summer, and it still feels exciting, fresh, funny and pacey.
They may be larger than life, but they do feel real, presumably drawn from Jilly Cooper's social circle.
Even if you don't like showjumping, the setting is exciting.
Pre-Read (3/28/17):After finishing Blaze Wyndham, this is going to be next bubble bath book. This book cover screams kinky as fuck.Reviewed (5/21/17): This book lived up to my expectations. This raised the bar of my trashy goodness expectations. Worth every star. I even read this book in public, where I have some shame. Yes, it was that good. :P
The book that started it all...probably the first piece of chick lit I ever read in 1991.Horses, sex, scandal...amazing characters and great story line with hilarious original one liners and witty observations that still make me laugh even though I have read this book about 15 times in the years since.Jilly is the Queen of this genre.
I can't do it anymore.This is the worst book that has ever been written.EVER.
How disconcerting it is to find how much one's literary tastes change over the years!
The handsome, classy, lewd and oh-so-cruel Rupert Campbell-Black is one of the funniest characters in the whole book, despite the fact that you hate him to bits: a perfect caricature.I was going to reduce my original 4 star rating to 3 stars, but I so enjoyed the chapters on the equestrian competitions (various show jumping events, world championships, Olympia international horse shows, and right through the 1984 Los Angeles Olympics) that I haven't the heart to do that.
Sadly, I wasn't particularly thrilled with the book.
The biggest problem I had with it was that there was very little build-up to any of the relationships.
Characters jump into bed with little pretense and marry after just a few dates.
I was 2/3 of the way through the book before it started to draw me in, and I had trouble identifying with or rooting for any of the major characters.
In fact, throughout the book I found myself continuously annoyed with them.
Also, many of the characters sway back and forth between very different personalities, one of which tends to be redeeming while the other one struck me as simply vile.
I must have been in 7th or 8th grade and this book basically had everything a girl at that age could want-- horses and sex!
I never got around to reading it when I was younger, so this year for vacation I decided to buy it for my Kindle (since an actual physical copy of the book is practically impossible to find).
The novel gets weighed down in various places-- mainly when the focus shifts to the riders' private lives away from the arena.
Ok. I still love horses and so am partially tempted to maybe read her other books, but the characters were so annoying that I don't know if I can handle it.
Puh, if this hadn't been an university read, I certainly wouldn't even had picked it up - just look at the cover and it will tell you what the book is about.
Also telling to a woman she is fridig, just because she don't want to participate in a foursome and when forced not enjoying it and not coming after three minutes makes me just angry.The soon as Rupert realizes his wife has run off, he gets mad.
I was so dissapointed in Billy, after he run back to Jennay(?) and the episode in Kenya.
I LOVED this book!
It was the perfect hilarious romp through the show jumping world that I adore with great scandal, amazing characters and such a great plot culminating at the Los Angeles Olympics.
The ending had me on the seat of my chair Cooper built this book so brilliantly.
Rupert - what can you say - Cooper makes him so complex you hate him one minute and adore him the next.
I fell madly in love with him.
The only thing I would have wished for was more fully fleshed out love scenes.
But who cares when you loved this book as much as I did?
What a bastard of a big book this was!!!
It reminded me of a Jackie Collins.
I'd have trouble locking down my favorite character but I'd say Rupert and not because he was attractive but he said the most exordinary things that cracked me up and he was a rascal.
I did not like his wife Helen much, especially towards the end.
Rupert was much the reason Helen was whack but still....I think Fen was young and did stupid young people things but I liked her at the Olympics.
She grew as a character.Good read...took up most of 12 hours to read.
I remember going to the local library and getting this out when I was about 14 or 15. I biked home on my ten speed with it stuck to my bike carrier as it wouldn't fit in my bag I had hanging over my handlebars. What a revelation. Still one of my all times favorites and who doesn't love Rupert. Rich characters and while now it might be a little dated, it's still a rather rollicking good time. LOVE Jilly Cooper.
I can't believe I'm owning up to having read this. Look at that cover. It was a recommended book from Goodreads, unavailable from my library. I was slightly relieved because I wouldn't embarrass myself checking it out with that cover... But, that being said, I enjoyed the soap opera-like drama. More like 3.5 stars. Entertaining & brainless read.
I got tricked into reading this by an article in The Telegraph claiming that it was far superior erotic fiction than 50 shades. In that case, 50 shades, which I haven't read, must be the most unutterable shite on planet earth.
I read this years and years ago, before my reading addiction really took hold.I think I need to re-read, cast and review it soon!Such great, timeless books.Has anyone else read these?
No words. So trashy, so 80's, soooo gooood...There isn't enough romance with rider MCs, please someone write it.
I'm getting too old to bother with boring books...and this IS a boring book. I didn't make it even a quarter way through before I decided I'd rather stare at the door knob than finish this.
Okay. This was really good. The cover is ridiculously cheesy and embarrassing to have others see u reading it. But I read it so fast I got over it! If U are in a reading rut and want something easy and soap like- this is the book.
An entertaining and fast moving read, accurate about horses and about the wealthier, privileged people who use them! Glamour. Drama. International intrigue. Two hoofs up!
OMG I loved this book so much!! Really great bonkfest and great insights into the highs and lows of horseriding and horseracing... Loved the irrepressible hero/villain of the book Rupert Campbell Black... He just does whatever he wants without any thought of consequences but really sweet his devotion to best friend Billy. Could not put this book down once I started reading it! Looking forward to reading the rest of the series now!
I really enjoyed getting to know the characters and having chapters switch to different perspectives.
Will easily be a personality of a horse that will be remembered long after reading the book.
I know that this is the first book in the series, but due to this book's heft and superficiality, I don't think I'll be running to pick up the other books when they bring in so many new characters.
But for anyone who does enjoy a good read that has a lot to do with horses in just about every chapter, I definitely would recommend it.

Reading this book had been one immensely long, albeit rewarding journey.
Yes, it's a naughty, naughty book.
Nevertheless, a substantial amount of research to provide good, accurate background of equine sport competition and British (and to some extent, French, German, Spanish, and American ) upper classes had been done.
Who knows that it takes huge commitment and energy to be an excellent rider?
And even good riders cannot always perform flawlessly.
A lot of double barreled name strewn about this book.
End verdict :would love to have Malise Gordon as my godfather, Jack Lovell as my husband, Billy Lloyd-Foxe as my big brother, and Rupert Campbell - Black as my side.
Mmm. Rupert.
