https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64862.R_is_for_Ricochet
Book Review  4 out of 5 stars to R is for Ricochet, the 18th book in the "Kinsey Millhone" mystery series, written in 2004 by Sue Grafton. Another great book in this series, I enjoyed the different type of case Kinsey took on. A wealthy man wants to ensure his daughter is on her best behavior while she gets out on parole after a few years. Her wild side seems to have quieted down while in jail, and Kinsey needs the money. So... she takes the case -- mistake #1. Then she realizes her case is no
4 out of 5 stars to R is for Ricochet, the 18th book in the "Kinsey Millhone" mystery series, written in 2004 by Sue Grafton.
Another great book in this series, I enjoyed the different type of case Kinsey took on.
You'll have to read the book to know mistakes 3 and 4 (there are two of them!), but I'm comfortable saying the plot and the characters in this one feel as though Grafton kicked it up a notch.
There are only 26 books to read!
For those new to me or my reviews...
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.

The best I can think of off the top of my head is “R is for Ratshit”, which is kind of cheating.Yes, I was less than impressed with this latest effort by Sue Grafton in her alphabetically-themed adventures of her heroine Kinsey Millhone, a private investigator.
Okay okay, maybe that’s going a bit far, Kinsey is certainly much more liberated than the average Mills and Boon heroine, BUT THE AVERAGE MILLS AND BOON NOVEL IS MORE INTERESTING THAN THIS.
Gee, I can’t wait for “Z is for Zebrashit” to come out…The only interesting thing about this novel is that it is set in the 1980s, Grafton deciding not to age her characters in real time.
Detective Milhorne often stops by the office to check her message machine, she uses phone books and pay phones, and she uses resources at the library to find facts!
Mystery authors walk a fine line with their readers.
Sadly, the latter is the case with this novel and i found myself disappointed in Detective Milhorne.
Three times she had to be clued into an important connection in the case (which I'm sure was written for the reader but makes our detective look stupid).
I think detective Milhorne should have a chat with author Sue Grafton about making her look bad.
Millhone in classic form, almost outshined by Reba !As with many of Sue Grafton's easy-reading tales about Santa Teresa private eye Kinsey Millhone, the books starts out pretty slow with Kinsey accepting a straightforward assignment to escort home a newly released parolee from women's prison, Reba Lafferty.
The latter is an appealing young woman with fresh ideas and habits, including a past penchant for light drugs, booze, gambling, and her former boss Beck.
Anyhow, it doesn't take Reba long to re-engage most of her old habits, including sex with the boss!
Lots of detailed descriptions of Kinsey's clothing, her client's clothing, the bad guy's clothing, Kinsey's thought processes about her clothing choices, the clothing of the IRS agent in the story, the clothing of a witchy rich lady, the clothing of Kinsey's love interest, the clothing a stripper wears to work, shopping malls, the clothing they look at in the shopping mall, hotel hallways, hotel lobbies, streets, and two separate descriptions of the same office hallway all make it one boring audiobook experience.Now, don't get me wrong - the reader (Judy Kaye) does a tremendous job of giving each individual character a distinct voice and she captures Kinsey's wisecracking side perfectly, but this story cannot be saved by a great presentation.
It's clever and kept my curiosity up through the whole story.
Kinsey has been hired by a elderly gentlemen to pick up his 30 year old daughter, Reba, from the Correctional Institute for Women after doing 2 years for embezzlement.
He wants her to get the daughter home and settled, then her job is done.
Turns out, Reba was working with her employer when the money disappeared and they are heavily involved with money laundering.
The FBI is after them and wants Reba to turn on her former boss.
The way this all plays out makes a a clever story, in my opinion.
She ends up helping the IRS, FBI and other federal agencies solve an elaborate money-laundering scheme happening right in Kinsey’s hometown.A subplot of “R” is Kinsey’s love life: brief reflections on most recent “boyfriend” Dietz and her ex-husbands and then a new involvement with Cheney Phillips, a law enforcement officer she’s known for years and worked with a couple of years earlier.
Having read the first 17, this is beginning to feel like being forced to try all 26 flavors at the ice cream store.
Its not that her writing is any worse (or any better, really) than before, its the same, or at least it feels that way to me.
I still like the lead, Kinsey Millhone, but this is now like watching Simon & Simon episodes.
The plot tricks have all been used and reused by now, so we are left with the writing and characters, both of which seem to have devolved in some way to a more juvenile version of their earlier forms.
I like Grafton, I like Kinsey, Im just starting to not like these books.
Another great addition to the Kinsey series. I liked that her & Cheney seem to be becoming involved, I hope for Kinseys sake he stays around :)
I love the alphabet series, but this is not her best. Its okay, but most of the others are far better.
Very disappointing addition to this series - hardly any action and a unimaginative plot
I would have left Reba to her own devices long before Kinsey.
I just didn’t understand her need to make sure Reba was okay or what she was thinking in going along with Reba’s dumb ass antics.
I also didn’t like the focus on Kinsey’s love life.
I never feel as though any of these guys are going to be in Kinsey’s life for the long-term so I don’t see why need to invest so much time with them.
I do like the ingenuity that Sue Grafton uses to bring new cases into Kinsey’s orbit.
The story revolves around Reba Lafferty, the 32 year old daughter of a rich businessman.
The beginning of the novel finds our protagonist, Kinsey Millhone, being hired by the rich elderly father to simply pick up his daughter from prison as she is about to be paroled and then to “watch over” her for a few days until she gets her life back together.
I know some reviewers dislike the day-to-day life aspects we see of Kinsey that don’t have much to do with the case but I am reading these in order and enjoy the way the larger, multi-volume story arcs play out.
At the same time Reba’s life seems about to spin out of control, Kinsey is approached by attractive cop, Cheney Phillips, who wants her to talk Reba into giving evidence against Beck for money laundering.
She then does the cops’ job for them—unpaid—tracking Reba down after they completely mishandled her case, and winds up right where she wasn’t supposed to be—right in the middle of Reba’s dangerous drama.The last few books in this series weren’t all that much fun, but this one felt more like the earlier Kinsey Millhone mysteries with a touch of humor and humanity.
Plus a new development in Kinsey's love life seems to derail her a bit as well from being who Grafton has been developing her in the past 17 books.
It feels like Grafton let the character of Kinsey down.
The short of this disappointing read is that Kinsey is asked by Reba's father to retrieve her from the California Women's Correctional Institution where she has been for the past 2 years on charges of embezzlement.
She gets involved in Reba's activities beyond her release from prison and that's where her character takes a sharp departure from who Grafton has introduced us to in books A-Q.
3.75 stars out of 5, rounded up.
I enjoy the audiobook versions of this series.
In fact, that's how I first discovered the series a few years ago.
Yes, I'm very late to it.
I was trying to find something to listen to on a bus trip to Toronto, and dl'd the first two books.
Something I've just noticed that actress Judy Kaye does in her narration -- when she does a male voice, she shifts her voice *up* an octave or two.
Most of the men in these books are really, really awful people, and I enjoy it when they have a higher pitched voice than Kinsey.
Sue Grafton is my favorite detective writer.
Anyone up to "T" in her series and still coming up with ingenious new plots is someone we can all learn from.
Not only that, I've met her, and she is a very nice person.
It takes courage to be an author (whether you write online, or for magazines, or books, or all of the above).Not that being nice has anything to do with her skill as a writer .
Generous people write generous books and articles and don't skimp on their readers.
Here's to you, Ms. Grafton, may your fingers never falter.This is a a great mystery.
As we continue to follow private investigator Kinsey Millhone, readers are taken on her next case when she is called to the house of Nord Lafferty, an older well to do man who proposes what appears to be an easy job for big money.
It is clear Reba is head over heels in love with Beckwith, convinced he is putting money away for the two of them so they can be together.
They want Kinsey to convince Reba to help them get their hands on Beckwith’s financial records to ensure he is convicted.
Her client's daughter is out of prison, and hires Kinsey to watch his daughter and make sure she doesn't get in any trouble.
Kinsey thinks it will be a fairly simple case since the daughter seems like she's turned a corner and wants to stay on the straight and narrow.
Nothing is as simple as it seems.The 18th book in the Kinsey Millhone series.
This one was a little different than some of the others in the series, and I wasn't all that interested in the story.
However, some of our favorites were back, and Kinsey gets a little love in her life.
3.5 StarsReview to follow
However, once home, Reba quickly makes contact with her old boss/boyfriend and it turns out that for her, staying out of trouble isn't as easy as one would think - and what was supposed to be a quick chauffeur/baby-sitting job ends up becoming far more complicated as Kinsey both forms an odd friendship with Reba - and tries to keep her out of trouble and off the first bus back to prison.
And while the narrator did an excellent job with distinguishing the voices for the elderly characters in the book, Reba and Kinsey often sounded the same so it wasn't always clear which was speaking.
I believe Grafton is running out of gas on this series.
I say that because in this story, which finds Kinsey taking a milk run job escorting a recently released daughter of a wealthy man and helping her re-integrate into society, is very mundane and almost is a backdrop for the other events going in Kinsey's life and her landlord Henry's.
Don't get me wrong, I enjoy reading about how Kinsey's personal is going and I was glad to see she has some interaction in her life but I don't want it to overshadow the mystery.
Kinsey is hired to escort Reba from prison by her father.
A simple job and Kinsey likes Reba.
But the story develops a twist as the police and Feds ask Kinsey to persuade Reba to help them catch boss.
The story has many twists and Reba has her own plans and Kinsey becomes sort of a pawn.
I found this story frustrating at times as I'm not used to Kinsey playing such a secondary role, but it did tie up nicely.
And finally, what does the future bode for Kinsey and her new friend, police investigator, Cheney?
I have to hand it to Ms. Grafton - it is rare that I encounter a protagonist, let alone a major character in an ongoing series that I detest.
Kinsey Millhone is so far removed from hard-boiled detective fiction that I cringe each time I see that phrase used in conjunction with this series.
I also find myself liking the supporting characters - Reba Lafferty & Cheney Phillips, especially, more than Ms. Millhone.
I also found it laughable that a seasoned P.I. such as Ms. Millhone would allow herself to be led around by the nose & thrust into criminal enterprises.
Finally, what sort of fictional name is "Salustio Castillo"?
Still, it's plenty of fun with interesting characters and lots of action.
Kinsey brings Reba back home, takes her to meet her parole officer, buy some new clothes, and eat a few Quarter-Pounders at McDonald's.
What secrets are they sharing that Kinsey should know about?
And how long can Kinsey keep Reba out of trouble?Only one dead body shows up, and it's toward the end of the book, and it is not much of a mystery to figure out who killed him.
The mystery here lies in property management, money laundering, off-shore accounts, and who has Reba's old job?
Lots of fun!
She is hired by Nord Lafferty to escort his daughter Reba home from prison and make sure she stays in line.
Reba was in jail for embezzling money from a former employer.
Soon her former boss Alan Beckwith reenters Reba's life.
Reba is a fun character though she has a great many flaws.
Compared to other entries in the series not a lot happens.
Kinsey is never really in any danger and there are long passages discussing money laundering, not the most exciting subject.
I really like the series as a whole but this entry is pretty forgettable.
Instead of investigating something specifically, (view spoiler)[ Kinsey is swept up in a battle of wits between Reba and Beck.
that are trying to prosecute Beck.
What goes from a simple job to a complex and dangerous undertaking, Kinsey is not involved other than as an accessory.
She isn't investigating per say, but uses her skills to figure out some of what is going on.
Also, there is some interesting stuff going on with Henry, who I always like to read about.
(hide spoiler)]I enjoyed this one a lot and definitely can't wait to read on.

Kinsey gets a girlfriend in this book.
For a women who is suspicious of the advances of her new found family she falls hard and fast for Reba.
Kinsey also gets a boyfriend in this book.
I kept wondering if the author meant for the novel's bad guy and the new boyfriend to be so similar, so rich, so smooth.This was an enjoyable read, but in both her professional adventure and her romantic one, Kinsey follows the lead of others and I wonder if that will eventually be her undoing as the series concludes.
