https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/244261.The_Street_of_Crocodiles
”They maintain that every woman in that district is a tart. In fact, it is enough to stare at any of them, and at once you meet an insistent clinging look which freezes you with the certainty of fulfillment. Even the schoolgirls wear their hair ribbons in a characteristic way and walk on their slim legs with a peculiar step, an impure expression in their eyes that foreshadows their future corruption.” Schulz sketchThere is a sexual madness bubbling in the corners of every scene in this collectio
The diffuse whiteness of light filtered by the snow, by the pale air, by the milky space, was like the gray paper of an engraving on which the thick bushes corresponded to the deep black lines of the decoration.”I could share so many more instances of superb, unusual writing that make the head soar with the headiness of the visions he created, but I do have to let you experience most of them in the course of reading the stories for yourself.
A strange, uneven book of fiction, but one that is oddly compelling. It is somewhat like magic realism, but more primeval and mythic than the dark fairy tales of Marquez. It is a little like Kafka too, but much more energetic, teeming with life. If Egon Schiele wrote fiction, it might be something like this.
Bruno Schulz writes 'Under The Sign of the Rubbish Heap'...............................................................15.55 March 5th - voice of the Penguin Classics EditionSince it seems that anything can happen on this review page, the book itself surely has a right to speak.
Yes, this edition of Bruno Schulz’s collected stories is claiming space to announce that what the reader gets inside the covers of this book is nothing less than magical: thirty stories and novellas plus thirty illustrations by Schulz himself.The stories are drawn from the two collections published in the author’s lifetime, 'Cinnamon Shops' from 1933  and 'Sanatorium Under the Sign of the Hourglass', from 1937 (though written earlier than the stories in Cinnamon Shops) plus a few other stories that had appeared in periodicals and journals around that time.Not all of the stories are illustrated but where they occur, the fantastical nature of the drawings complements the hallucinatory narratives perfectly, introducing a further layer of eccentricity to the work.
One by one , he shook off the bonds off association with human society.In the background are the other people around the author : mother, dreamy and neglecting the house; a domestic help Adela, like a pagan goddess, rampant and emanating femininity; aunts and uncles and cousins.
Seemingly ordinary house under his pen populates with mythical creatures, animated things and humanized animals; wallpapers and candelabrums seem to live own life; mythologized reality, a rich, almost baroque vocabulary and unbridled imagination of the author, metaphors and ornamentation of the language are used here to describe the world which is going to pass.
Spirit and matter transform mutually into each other; they are alternative forms of that which is.* The 17th century Dutch philosopher, Baruch Spinoza, would have felt comfortable with Peirce in his intimations of a world imbued with the divine.Bruno Schulz likely never heard of Peirce, but he would have known about Spinoza in his Galician Jewish community; and he certainly subscribed to Peirce’s philosophy.
It is proclaimed by Schulz’s father in his state of advanced insight/dementia: “If, forgetting the respect due to the Creator, I were to attempt a criticism of creation, I would say ‘Less matter, more form!’" And it is through an imagination worthy of Mervyn Peake that Schulz lays in the forms missed by the divine Creator.
However, this time, I'll reverse the order, so that the review doesn't pre-empt what I was trying to achieve with the story.The Mannequin in the House[Inspired by the Life and Works of Bruno Schulz]My grandfather and I were the first to awake that morning.
I looked over to the corner of the dining room, and noticed that even the mannequin was laughing.To this day, we don't go to bed, until each of us has told one of our stories.Darkness and LightI first became aware of Bruno Schulz, when I read one of my favourite novels, Nicole Krauss' "The History of Love", which I highly recommend.
My father survived World War II hiding in a bunker under the town of Drohobych, so I feel eerily connected to this man and his work.
Inanimate objects struggle to come to life.
The details of his life are the stuff of legend.
Bruno Schulz was a shy, frail, brilliant artist, Jewish and secular, who lived in the far eastern Polish town of Drohobych.
Drohobych was a particularly brutal place to be in the cauldron of World War II.
Read it if you want to be consumed by fiction that burns like poetry.
But by all means, read this book.
They continued on their way, now featureless, without eyes, shedding as they walked one mask after another, so that the dusk became filled with the discarded larvae dropped in their flight." --from "The Night of the Great Season"That's Bruno Schulz's description of nightfall.
With Schulz, his prose is just as much a catalyst into his fantastical worlds as the "story." In his tales, it's not night outside the window, but "black night, saturated with dreams and complications." A shop's interior can slowly transform into a mountainous landscape.
But not like in children's fairy tales, but more like the real world seen through the eyes of a child.
While my younger brother drank his treats down, I sat patiently, criss cross on the floor, and slid each candy coated jewel from it's pouch onto the ground before me.
Each story, though they are all linked, was like the most masterful sugar structure, the most precariously balanced, breath taking M&M monument.Shulz' father, Jacob, is hands down the most fascinating character I have encountered on the page in some time.
I only want to work in a clinic filled with Jacob Schulzes and deformed birds.
Schulz writes like no one I have read before...
As we manipulate everyday words, we forget that they are fragments of ancient and eternal stories, that we are building our houses with broken pieces of sculptures and ruined statues of gods.In walking down The Street of Crocodiles, you take in a writer who can make the mundane into something brilliant.
This short brilliant collection refers to itself, interlocks with itself, explores the labyrinths it creates.
They make it into something greater, more mysterious, more curious.As a side note, when I went to finish this collection, I immediately turned to the Introduction to read more about what must have been a brilliant man.
Schulz is like one who awakens in a dream.The following passages highlight three dream elements in The Street of Crocodiles.
There are people who liken these days to an apocrypha, put secretly between the chapters of the great book of the year; to palimpsests, covertly included between its pages; to those white, unprinted sheets on which eyes, replete with reading and the remembered shapes of words, can imagine colors and pictures, which gradually become paler and paler from the blankness of the pages, or can rest on their neutrality before continuing the quest for new adventures in new chapters” (125-126).And last, there is the uncanny ~ the revelation of an occult world that coexists with the real world, a world hidden from all but the few whose peculiar nature allows them to discover it.
These truly noble shops, open late at night, have always been the objects of my ardent interest.
Dili, naifliği ve hikayesi ile mest etti beni. Arka kapakta yazan lehlerin kafkası vurgusuna takılmayın ama Prosut' la akraba olması olması şaşırtmazdı beni. Youtube'da diyaloglar başlığı ile aratırsanız karşınıza 1 saat 20 dakikalık bir video çıkacak. Kitabı okuyun, videoyu izleyin ve edebiyatın gücü karşısısında mest olun.
So…I’ll let it speak where I fail:“From that faded distance of the periphery, the city rose and grew toward the center of the map, an undifferentiated mass at first, a dense complex of blocks and houses, cut by deep canyons of streets, to become on the first plan a group of single houses, etched with the sharp clarity of a landscape seen through binoculars.
In that section of the map, the engraver concentrated on the complicated and manifold profusion of streets and alleyways, the sharp lines of cornices, architraves, archivolts, and pilasters, lit by the dark gold of a late and cloudy afternoon which steeped all corners and recesses in the deep sepia of shade.
If I knew nothing else about this character, this one line speaks volumes about Charles' motivations and inner life, while causing me to be instantly suspicious, as well as fascinated, by this one strange tic.At one step of abstraction further, we must note that Schulz not only provides mood, he describes mood in a way that draws the reader in, or, rather, infects the reader in the mind's eye:In an atmosphere of excessive facility, every whim flies high, a passing excitement swells into an empty parasitic growth; a light gray vegetation of fluffy weeds, of colorless poppies sprouts forth, made from a weightless fabric of nightmares and hashish.In a word, his work is incredible.
For all that, it has moments of brilliance that made me understand why Schulz is revered in Poland, not least by Olga Tokarczuk, author of the wonderful Flights.Schulz was a Polish Jew shot by the Nazis in 1941.
The father is something of a dreamer, and in Schulz's surreal dreamworld undergoes Kafkaesque transformations into insects (so it didn't surprise me that Schulz translated Kafka into Polish) and several deaths.
The stories are full of symbolism, allusions and surreal dream logic, and I enjoyed the wildest flights of fancy most.
Schulz Lehçe yazan bir yazar.
Kitap baba temasıyla başlıyor ve öyle de devam ediyor.
Öykülerdeki baba teması üzerinden düşünürsek kitabı, Kafka ile anılması doğal geliyor ama ikisinin oluşturduğu baba figürü birbirinden alabildiğine uzak.
Zaman ölçüsünü bilinçli olarak bozuyor, bizi zamandan buna bağlı olarak da olay örgüsünden uzak tutuyor.Öykülerin diğer güzel bir özelliği çok yönlü okumaya müsait olması.
Okuması çok basit bir kitap değil çünkü yukarıda da bahsettiğim gibi olay örgüsünden okuyucuyu olabildiğince uzak tutan metinler bunlar.
Zamanı kelimeler üzerinden eğip bükebilen başka bir dünya kurabilen çok özel bir yazar, çok özel bir kitap Tarçın Dükkanları.
He was a solitary man, living apart, filled with his dreams, with memories of his childhood, with an intense, formidable inner life, a painter's imagination, a sensuality and responsiveness to physical stimuli which most probably could find satisfaction only in artistic creation — a volcano, smoldering silently in the isolation of a sleepy provincial town.He must have had access to some unearthly world, full of rich wonderful things, that we, normal mortals, don't have the chance to get a glimpse of, other than through the writing of Bruno Schulz and gifted writers like him.
So when I googled Schulz, I saw that he has this book, The Street of Crocodile that is included in the 1001 Books You Must Read Before You Die. Bruno Schulz was a Polish writer who was finishing a novel entitled Messiah when he was shot by German Nazi in 1942.
When Schulz was 44 years old, he helped his fiancee in translating Franz Kafka's opus, The Trial (3 stars).
Obviously, Kafka was one of the major influences in Schulz writing and it is apparent in this book by having the kafkaesque elements of bizarre, meaningless, hopelessness meaning no-escape situations.
(I'd known of Schulz for a long time, but as mentioned there, had always been put off by the title The Street of Crocodiles, combined with the seriousness and slight sadism of the black and white illustration on the front of the recent Penguin Classics editions.
Its childlike-ness is far nearer the essence of the book than the fetishy foot-in-the-face of the Penguin choice.)The couple of stories I'd previously read, 'Birds' and 'Cinnamon Shops', contained much of the essence of Schulz's fiction, but a few things were new to me in reading the whole Street of Crocodiles volume.
Matter has been given infinite fertility, inexhaustible vitality, and, at the same time, a seductive power of temptation which invites us to create as well.
It entices us with a thousand sweet, soft, round shapes which it blindly dreams up within itself.”And a man created a mannequin… And which is much more important man created literature and peopled it with all kinds of sentient mannequins.“On that map, made in the style of baroque panoramas, the area of the Street of Crocodiles shone with the empty whiteness that usually marks polar regions or unexplored countries of which almost nothing is known.
if you haven't read this collection (which includes Sanatorium Under the Sign of the Hourglass) do yourself a favor and read one of the great books.
Schulz's sketches are equally great.
Here is a lovely website dedicated to his art & writing:http://www.brunoschulzart.org/...and if you don't know Schulz's fate, read his wiki-biography or whatever, but be prepared for some genuine 20th century tragedy.The first recorded Polish sentence translates to something like "Let me grind, and you take a rest"...
That would be genuine maturity.” ― Bruno SchulzBruno Schulz was a high school art teacher, an artist and a short story writer who was killed by the Gestapo when he was 50 for straying into a non-Jewish or Aryan area of his hometown of Drohobych, Poland.
Darkness over comes the light, finally.“Poetry happens when short circuits of sense occur between words.” ― Schulz“Nimrod began to understand that what he was experiencing was, in spite of its appearance of novelty, something which had existed before–many times before.
Bruno Schulz kayıp zamanını öykülere bölmüş Proust'tan farklı olarak. Bir roman olarak da okunabilir, sıkıntı yok.Gerçekliğini kendi tabiriyle bir ip gibi dizmiş zamana, tabi fantastik unsurlar katarak. Bu bakımdan engelsiz, keyifli bir okumaydı. Upuzun betimleme ve açıklamalardan sonra bir eylem, bir işaret, nadiren de bir söz vasıtası ile gerçekleşen kavrayışlar, küçük aydınlanışlar...Orjinal dili Lehçeden yaptığı özenli çeviri nedeniyle, çeviri değil de orjinal dilinden okunuyormuş izlenimi yaratan ve eseri olabildiğince estetize eden çevirmen Neşe Taluy Yüce'ye koca bir alkış. Taş Taş Üstünde'den sonra benim okuduğum ikinci önemli işi.
This is astounding writing.Some quotes from the first bit, which is basically all one notable quote of dimly perfect fever-nostalgia at the hidden cusp of adolescence*:The dark second-floor appartment of the house in Market Square was shot through each day by the naked heat of summer: the silence of the shimmering streaks of air, the squares of brightness dreaming their intense dreams on the floor; the sound of a barrel organ rising from the deepest golden vein of day; two or three bars of a chorus, played on a distant piano over and over again, melting in the sun on the white pavement, lost in the fire of high noon.
We have long since abandoned our dreams of that fortress, but here, years later, someone turns up who picks them up and takes them seriously, someone ingenuous and true of heart who understood them literally, took them for coin of the realm, and treated them as things that were plain, unproblematic.
I have grown into someone less ingenuous, (though I hope not less true of heart) and so felt the textured-pavers-musical-notation as night writing, obscuring symbols.Schulz's later stuff, which was actually written first, seems less polished by contrast, yet is certainly worth reading, if even as a process of grieving for what might have been.
One of the most haunting, beautiful, amazing, nuanced, and important books that I've ever read. The Street of Crocodiles is profoundly difficult, delicious in its complexity, and while some have compared him favorably to both Proust and Kafka, both comparisons fall flat. Read this book. Buy it. Lend it to out. Buy it again. Lend it out. Please read this book.
Щастлива съм, че открих, макар и случайно, творчеството на Бруно Шулц. В противен случай щях да продължавам да смятам, че класическата полска литература се изчерпва със смъртно отегчителния Хенрик Сенкевич.Бруно Шулц пише замайващо и упояващо до степен на пълно влизане в халюцинацията и внимателно изучаване на нейните причудливи чупки и потайни ъгълчета. "Канелените магазини" е безсюжетна творба много преди това да стане модерно, не е точно поток на мисълта, но се доближава. Няма да се хареса на широк кръг читатели, но тези, които я припознаят, ще останат пленени завинаги. Както се случи с мен.
The exquisite story, "In the Land of Armadillos," made my want to read Shulz's own work.
This classic story collection is a dreamy, post-modernist, surreal walk through the streets of Drogobych and through the many rooms of Shulz's imagination.
Likened to Kafka, the book as a whole reminded me of a very different version of Sherwood Anderson's Winesburg, Ohio.I think Shankman says it best in her own review: "Read The Street of Crocodiles if you're interested in what was lost in the fires of the Holocaust.
Read it if you want to be consumed by fiction that burns like poetry.
But by all means, read this book."
One is by the translator Celine Wieniewska, and the other by Jerzy Ficowski, who must have written the introduction to the original.
It is collection of inter-connected stories, a novel in the same way, perhaps, that Olive Kitteridge is a novel.
Schulz takes us on flights of his imagination in a fantastical way.
(From the introduction by Jerzy Ficowski.)This is filled with such beautiful language!
I could quote from nearly every page, but here are two examples, from two different stories.I heard my father's voice during the intermissions in these prophetic tirades.
I don't know why it was changed for the English language collection, which are the same stories.
Tornou-se escritor por acaso ao ser-lhe sugerido a transformação, em contos, das cartas que escrevia a um amigo, contando-lhe as suas recordações, mas que "não lhe rendeu um tostão".
Schulz é considerado um dos mais importantes artistas polacos de século XX e a sua escrita é comparada à de Franz Kafka e de Robert Walser.
Kafka, que já não leio há muitos anos, não o "vi" aqui, mas Walser sim, nas extensas descrições dos ambientes em detrimento da análise aprofundada de personagens (é só por isso que lhe tiro uma estrela, apesar de achar a prosa poética e muito bonita).
Can a simple ordinary fact of a normal day, become a superb piece of literature?
Can an event be 're-lived' according to your childhood imaginations?
Schulz will help you live it.
Read Schulz and you will know exactly how you had imagined them as a Child.
For instance, Schulz in six or eight pages creates a story that resembles and gives the same effect as Kafka's Metamorphosis.
And I am grateful to that friend for introducing Schulz.
The small stories in this book are language-drunk, old-world-surrealism, the emphasis on the weird life of objects, and a father who at various times turns into a bird, saves the world, forgets his wallet, pursues the maid, creates a world out of bolts of cloth, and--of course!
A vanished world, a child's wavering sense of reality, a street of magic which cannot always be found and then appears when you're lost… it is quite the Chagall world, with a darker undertow of contagion and panic, leavened with whimsy.
The stories don't seem 'finished' in any conventional sense, but explode like flash-paper before the settle to the ground in a heap of glitter.
As we enter my favorite season, the target of Schulz's fevered obsession, I can no longer think of summer as anything other than a season of torpor.
Slowly curling vines and dense, overripe underbrush pair with images of Schulz's father's many metamorphoses and descent into madness.
Sitting here, the air still warm from the sun already set, my memories of the crumbling house surrounded in vines triggered my memory of Schulz's summers: decaying overabundance, imposing, mysterious buildings, a sense of foreboding.
I hope this overripe summer continues to spark memories of this remarkable book.
И всички блуждаеха в златистия ден все с тази изнурена гримаса, сякаш слънцето бе надянало върху лицата на своите поклонници една и съща маска- златната маска на слънчевото братство; всички, които този ден бяха излизли по улиците, които се срещаха и разминаваха- стари и млади, деца и жени, - се поздравяваха с тази маска, нарисувана върху лицата им с дебел пласт златна боя, зъбеха се един на друг с тази вакхическа гримаса - варварска маска на езически култ.Площадът беще безлюден и жълт от пек, изметен до прашинка от горещите ветрове като библейска пустиня.
***Всеки знае, че след няколко обикновени, нормални години подивялото време понякога ражда от утробата си някоя различна, особена година, изродена година, на която - като шести малък пръст на ръката - понякога ѝ израства тринасети, фалшив месец.
Also sensual in the sense of touch, the feeling that there is behind his words.Schulz does not hamper himself with a focused story line, he lets his words, his imagination flow and go where it will just like dreams do.
Like me trying to unravel my dreams.Because it’s what these words do they take you places back in your memory or remind you of conversations you’ve had and you revisit.
But although the narrator is young we get adult language, this contrast added to that surreal feeling reading these stories gave me.A great and necessary BR with Carol and Maya – it would not have been the same without you.http://brunoschulzart.org/
This book is completely delirious.
Every inanimate object is alive in some horrid, pulsing way: the night seethes with stars, the floriated wallpaper opens eyes and strains ears to spy on the family in their cavernous, dusty rooms, while what we think of as reality is an enormous empty theater.
Only the scene immediately before us retains its characteristics while everywhere our gaze does not fall is crumbling as we speak into decay and plaster and sawdust, unable to keep its form without our concentration.
Equally disturbing is Schulz's work as an artist.
I wish the stories were packaged with his illustrations!
The existence of his book is a pledge that the tangled, mute masses of things unformulated within us may yet emerge to the surface miraculously distilled.Adopta-se os mitos dos outros, quando não se consegue criar mitos melhores. Na infância criámos os nossos próprios mitos (mais por ignorância do que por originalidade). Na vida adulta não acreditamos em mitos, o que talvez seja apenas um mito comum – um dos melhores. Este livro é um Golden Bough sobre só uma pessoa, cheio de mitos e milagres. Schulz prefere os mitos e os milagres triviais; assim, ninguém desconfia de nada.
Това, което ще напиша ще го сложа в спойлер, въпреки че надали има нужда :) (view spoiler)[Когато недовършеният птичи свят се появи, беше от осакатени птици, които човешкото гъмжило уби с камъни.
...Тези будки и сергии, сковани от сандъди от захар, облепени с ярки реклами на шоколад, пълни със сапунчета, с весела евтиния, с позлатени боклуци, станиол, свирки, вафли и шарени ментови бонбони, бяха спирки на лекомислието, дрънкалки на безгрижието, пръснати из гъсталаците на огромната лабиринтна нощ, която плющеше от ветровете.Грамадни тъмни тълпи се нижеха в мрака срещ шумна неразбория, сред тътренето на хиляди нозе и брътвежа на хиляди уста - гъмжило, сплетено в своя вървеж, точещо се по артериите на есенния град.
In a tireless, wide-awake world, how would it be possible to believe your father had transformed himself into a cockroach, or now lived within the eyeless, Buddha-serene condor stuffed and perched atop a living room shelf?I would have preferred a somewhat more contained novel, a touch more overall cohesiveness to the chapter-length stories conjoined within, as I feel that Schulz might have achieved something truly unique and mind-blowing if he had just tightened a few bolts here and there - though I'll still happily take that which he put to the page in its brief-but-lush glory for us all to enjoy.* Victoria Nelson persuasively makes the argument that Schulz has crafted his tale within a Hermetic Gnostic framework, as it is all matter - organic and inorganic - that is trapped within the cosmos and alienated from the divine spirit, rather than merely humanity's pneuma.
I think I picked it up at an appropriate time, because it gave me a new perspective when my outlook on life was pretty foggy.
Any perspective was welcomed, but this one particularly made sense-- or proceeded to make nonsense, but nevertheless got the wheels turning when the crank was rusty.At first glance, it seems to be a nonsensical story of a boy (perhaps Shultz, himself), his looney father, and the city in which they resided.
This book made me begin stretching my mind to believe in new realities.
Comparison's have been made between Schulz and Franz Kafka.
Как само пише този човек!"Виновна за това е старческата несдържаност на лятото, неговата разпътна закъсняла жизненост. Понякога август вече е минал, а дебелият стар дънер на лятото продължава да ражда по навик, пуска гнилакът му дни-дивачки, дни-плевели, ялови и видиотени, а на това отгоре добавя даром и дни-кочани, празни и неядливи - дни бели, стъписани и непотребни."На кого му е притрябвал сюжет, когато думите имат цвят, мирис и текстура.
‘The Street of Crocodiles’ is a collection of intertwined stories lifted from the peerless imagination of a gawkish Polish school teacher, Bruno Schulz, whose treasure trove of metaphors, similes and beautiful images form the basis of the central preoccupation of Schulz’s work: the triumph of the imagination and its ability to recognise the sublime beneath the veneer of even the most everyday things.The collection begins with a surreal description of an ordinary August day, “On those luminous mornings Adela returned from the market, like Pomona emerging from the flames of the day, spilling from her basket the colourful beauty of the sun-the shiny pink cherries full of juice under their transparent skins, the mysterious black morellos that smelled so much better than they tasted, apricots in whose golden pulp lay the core of long afternoons.
Bruno Schulz has some of the most beautiful writing I've ever read.
Wow.That said, it took me a month to read the first story in this book.
I'd be sitting on the bus reading Street of Crocodiles ...
I was really only reading it because Jonathan Safran Foer's newest book was inspired by Street of Crocodiles and JSF is my favorite author, so I figured I'd read his favorite story first.
I feel kind of like I failed him by not finishing the book, but at least I got through the story that his book was inspired by.
Art by Tetsuya IshidaThis was too surrealistic and chaotic for me.
Too often I found myself searching for clues and hints to help me figure out which parts of the stories were real and which were dreams, and – obviously – that’s not what the book is for.
However, a day after I finished reading the images the author drew are still vivid in my mind - I can still see the boy wandering the labyrinth-like house and the streets of his home town, trying to understand where he and his father fit in the world around them.
Buddy read with Carol and Sofia, March 2016.
I couldn't read this in bed in Brooklyn so I walked around and read it and it was incredible. Then I would try to read it in bed and I'd pass out. And then I'd walk. I suggest you read this one and walk.
