https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10873.Shopgirl
Welcome to Steve Martin's gallery of portraits!The subject is the vacuous LA social scene.
Aside from the above, a number of minor works fill out the show.Critics have lambasted Martin's portraits as non-representative of the true human experience.
Some have attacked Martin himself, as if laying blame on him for his subjects' vapid thoughts and actions.
For this reviewer, the portraits themselves are not the problem, it's the overall story that this collection presents that makes the work as a body fall apart.
They are, after all, portraits.
Edit: Goodreads just showed me the following quote from Steve Martin: “Some people have a way with words, and other people...oh, uh, not have way.” Heh. I'm gonna go ahead and add that to my review here.
But the reader is supposed to accept that she is smart because Steve Martin cleverly includes this in the narration by saying something like "She is smart.
And they made a movie out of it and of course, STEVE MARTIN played the 50 yr old.
NOT AS A BOOK, Martin isn't a good enough writer to pull it off.
A haunting tale...in that I am still haunted by Martin's borderline misogynistic caricatures of women (and what he thinks we do in public restrooms (page 101)).
He writes like a child who got a thesaurus for Christmas but has never read a great book, or been allowed to use the f-word, or met a woman, owned a pair of testicles (page 18), or employed an editor.
Don't believe me?
Check out how he named his main character: Mirabelle Buttersfield.
No one is named Mirabelle Buttersfield!
Read this book only if you already hate bubble-gum, nipples, women or reading.
Steve Martin, how I love you.But please, please, please don't write anything ever again.Kisses,LauraPS: Please stop being in movies involving the words "dozen" or "bride" in the title.
K thanx.PPS: Also, if you specifically note on one page that your character does not have a couch, only a FUTON OH MY GOD HOW CLICHED IS THAT, as a really lazy way of saying she "isn't grown up yet," and then later say that a visitor to the character's apartment never saw her cat as it HID UNDER THE COUCH, seriously, you should never ever write anything ever again.
This is objective proof, it isn't just me, okay?
(I mean, I'd used his quote "I think I did pretty well, considering all I started out with was a bunch of blank paper" for YEARS in writing classes, at the tops of syllabi, etc.
I could at least see what he'd done with that blank paper.)I was pleasantly surprised.
I *really* liked this novella.
I think too often writers cram a lot into a short story or stretch out not enough into a novel.
I really liked the character of Mirabelle.
The unforgivable sin in this novella would have been to have him become a prince charming and rescue Mirabelle, or something, a la _Pretty Woman_.
A girl who is willing to give every ounce of herself to someone, who could never betray her lover, who never suspects maliciousness of anyone, and whose sexuality sleeps in her, waiting to be stirred." p.20"She keeps working to make connections, but the pile of near misses is starting to overwhelm her." p.21"Mirabelle is not affected by a man's failure to approach her, as her own self-deprecating attitude never allows the idea that he would in the first place." p.27"I'm not sure what I like; I'm still forming."
The story wants to be deep. It wants to paint a delicate picture of the world and wow you with its simple truths. It wants to sing straight into your heart, but it doesn't realize that it's tone deaf and, well, stupid. The only thing you can really do is pat it on the head and say, "Poor thing," and then maybe give it a piece of pie because its life will be filled with nothing but disappointment.
Mirabelle works at a boring job in the dressy glove department at Neiman Marcus, selling a product that few people stop to buy. The shy artistic woman longs for more in her life, and needs to feel loved. But the dating scene in LA is superficial and cutthroat, and she often makes unwise choices. It's hard to believe she is twenty-eight years old since she acts much younger. The novella is bittersweet and darkly humorous as Mirabelle looks for genuine love and happiness.
Perhaps he was with Bernadette Peters or Victoria Tennant, or any of the many beautiful women he's been known to escort around town; afternoon strolls that clearly included revolving doors and escalators, a hint of rich perfume in the air, the light refrain of piped-in piano, and a rack of Armani couture that called to his lady with its siren song.
You will wait through his idle rumination, biding your hours alongside a man who is anticipating the return of a beautiful woman.
A master of the comedic genre, Mr. Martin manages without pretentiousness to imbue the story of a slightly imbalanced shopgirl, Mirabelle, a veritable everyday girl with little to do of anything, with a mirth and understanding that undercuts all of his celebrity and stand-up.Mirabelle meets both a fledgling creature Jeremy and a middle-aged millionaire Ray Porter.
that everyday people, perhaps like myself, or like you, standing at retail counters...
The two embark on a relationship which predictably ends badly, but also predictably teaches both of them something about themselves and allows them to grow as people and friends.I didn’t have super high hopes for this book at the outset, having seen another example of Steve Martin’s writing in the play Picasso at the Lapin Agile (a play which starts in a very promising manner and ends with an Elvis impersonator beaming down into a small French café in Monmartre.
Mirabelle believe that he is expressing frustration at having to leave town and that he is trying to cut down on traveling.
Mirabelle works as a Glove clerk at the Neiman's department store in the mall in L.A.
Can Mirabelle find out who loves her before she gets hurt?
Read on and find out for yourself.This was the first ever book that I have read by comedian/actor Steve Martin.
One of the parts that made me laugh out loud was (view spoiler)[When Jeremy tries to have sex with Mirabelle for the first time and her cat jumps onto the bed and starts playing with his balls!
LOL (hide spoiler)].
If you like Steve martin, definitely check out this novella book.
The eponymous 28-year-old shopgirl of this book, Mirabelle, works in the stultifyingly dull job of selling gloves at Neiman's in Beverly Hills and yearns for love but isn't sure how to go about it, accepting what she can get, including the affections a well-to-do 50-year-old traveling businessman.
Even though he should know better, he wants to play both ends against the middle; hurt on all sides is inevitable.
There's plenty of arrested development to go around; the 50-year-old knows as little about love and true romance as the 28-year-old.
The world of Beverly Hills phoniness comes in for a wry drubbing.So, despite this book's limitations, it spoke to me.
It's a melancholy (not depressive), wise, and well-drawn portrait of a young woman in a sad, tender, no-strings-attached relationship with a wealthy older man who cares for her, but does not love her, and while this may sound banal, there's something extraordinary about this ability of this quiet little book to inhabit both of these characters -- especially the young woman -- so empathetically.Honestly, I'd give it four stars except for the distracting make-'em-laugh satiric sketches of L.A., which come off as more apologetic than funny ("oh, all right, I'll throw them a bone...").
This is not a comedy, not a novelization of Roxanne or anything like that but rather a more serious take on two lovers, one older, one younger.
The story is told in three acts, but little else in this book -- not the characters, not the way events unfold -- feels Hollywoodized.
The narrator continually intrudes into the story, explaining each character's unconscious motivations and desires.
Done the wrong way, this approach can be grating and impede the story's flow, but it works here.
Perhaps it's because the narrator seems like some kindly older man, someone who has gained humility from his own mistakes and loves and cheers for his own flawed creations.
"Just three months later, it happens to Ray...a 45-year-old woman ...touches his heart and then breaks it flat.
It is then Ray's turn to experience Mirabelle's despair, to see its walls and colors.
Only then does he realize what he has done to Mirabelle, how wanting a square inch of her and nor all of her has damaged them both." That's about the best quote I can pick to illustrate what this novel is like.
This falls under those quietly heartbreaking pieces that I like.
It's quick, a pretty easy read and well written, and who knew Steve Martin was this touching /and/ intelligent?
Ack. In his zeal, perhaps, to convince the worldthat he's a serious author, Steve Martin writes a really, really terrible book.
Poor, artistic, dumb glove-selling Mirabelle wants someone to love her.
Honestly, this read like a writing assignment gone wrong: there are bubble gum nipples that can be chewed, a lavender scented snatch...and that's just one minor character (whose entire presence is totally unnecessary, by the way).
If you love Steve Martin at all, promise me that you won't read this book.
Because you'll never look at him the same way again.
Both were pleasant surprises.
Written in almost elegant prose, the characters in their small lives unfold.
Vignettes of their lives are neat and complete, stacking on top of and inside one another, until the chain of experiences moves each character to a different place.
It may seem insignificant or that the characters just drift, but isn't that a lot like life?
We may want each moment, each choice to be significant and important, but it's the everyday journey that has significance and the places it takes us that have significance.
I was in absolute awe while reading this at Steve Martins beautifully written prose and at how well he captured not one but two extremely different types of women. I cannot recommend this novella enough. Excuse me while I go search for his other books...
I read and really enjoyed Martin's The Pleasure of my Company a few years ago.
It's about a 28 year old woman who works in a shop selling "gloves no one wants to buy" and lives like a newly graduated college student.
Ugh. On both counts.I'm not finding this charming or quirky or even slightly interesting and may give it up very soon.
Instead I'm finding it all rather shallow and too focused on clothes and expensive meals and endless, unfunny descriptions of things I just don't give two craps about.
I guess over the past few years of steadily reading professionally narrator works I've been spoiled.
I love Steve Martin.
Before I continued ...after that first line I decided I was much too harsh and I went into other goodreads reviews of this book to see how close my opinion was with the general public...and I found what I had predicted I would find.
A whole bunch of people who loved his book.
In between those admirers i found a few, who like me, love his work and want to make known how much they love him ...only to follow it with the "HOWEVER this book sucked.
He obviously wanted the sex to be humorous but it just came off as awkward.
If you want to see his work..bypass the book store and go to the theater.
I re-read this during the snowstorm and liked it almost as much as the first time.
The novella is short and the story is quiet, with only three (maybe four) main characters.
I've probably never identified with an adult character as much as I do Mirabelle (even though she suffers from clinical depression and I do not).
But if you are like the bookstore clerk who rang up this book for me, you are in for a surprise if you see the author's name and say "Oh, I loved the movie Bowfinger!" This is a different species.
Lovely book, one of my all-time favorites.
How can a movie that seemed so horrible and so sad be such an amazing book when the novel and screen play were written by the same person?
Anyway, this was a wonderful book.
Yes, it made me cry just as much as the movie did but the book was just so much better.
The book leaves you more at peace with the ending.
The movie just throws the ending at you and expects you to accept it.
Thankfully, my favorite movie line was in the book though it wasn't all together.
Steve Martin is an amazing and very vivid author.
Shopgirl may be thin, but it's not light.
It's a book where Mirabelle's older boyfriend is almost always referred to by his full name--Ray Porter--as if he were as esteemed as a visiting professor, where Mirabelle's job behind the glove counter at Neiman Marcus illustrates her life's trajectory.
Shopgirl also contains the single best physical description ever put to paper.
Jeremy, Mirabelle's younger suitor, nails down his attraction to her."Jeremy's attraction to Mirabelle arises from her passing similarity to someone he had fallen in love with in his preadolescent life.
Strange as it may sound, it's what kept Shopgirl from five stars.
I read another review of Shopgirl on Goodreads in which the reviewer describes the book by saying that she felt as though Steve Martin wrote the book specifically so that he could write the screenplay to the movie so that he could play the Ray Porter character so he could hook up with a young actress (at least on screen).
While I don't think that Steve Martin would have to go through those lengths to invoke the interest of an actress, Shopgirl does feel to me like a middle-aged man's sexual fantasy.
I read this before I had even heard this was going to be a movie - which is great because I was able to read it without picturing Claire Danes as Mirabella.
(I thought she did a very good job in the movie - I just like reading a book and making up my own vision of the characters.)It's a simple little story really - girl is bored in a shop.
Older man is taken with the girl and brings her into his life a little.
When she wants more than to just be a plaything to him it dissolves.
I really like this Novella.
It's a story about loneliness. The people are pretty messed up and the environment (Los Angeles) is straight up consumerism at it's worse. And despite the loneliness and the crass consumerism, the characters still strive for connections.
It's not surprising that this is funny but that it is not 'Steve Martin' funny. Instead it's subtle, wry, sensuous, observant and delicately nuanced. Martin writes well about romance and is insightful about both his male and female characters. He also made it into a movie with these strengths.
But I wish I'd read this before watching the movie, because I would have understood - not all the characters better, but Ray Porter in particular, who doesn't come off so well in the movie.
Mirabelle believes he has told her that he is bordering on falling in love with her, and Ray believes she understands that he isn't going to be anybody's boyfriend.
(p.63) You'd think that with an omniscient narrator that understands these characters so well and explains almost everything, you'd be left bored, detached and disengaged.
I saw the movie (with Steve Martin, Claire Danes and Jason Schwartsman, who I believe gives an amazing performance) and while being dark, sad and VERY twisted, I truly enjoyed it (if you want a truly surreal experience, rent "Shopgirl" and "stardust"(which also has a different plot line in the book than in the movie) and watch them back to back~you will be amazed!!) The book (which I looked everywhere for and [thankfully] finally found at a used bookstore for 5 bucks) was awful.
