https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14866.Nineteen_Minutes
Maybe it's because I HAVE read so many of her books that I was looking for her signature "twist" at the ending (which an astute reader will guess at halfway through the book, if not earlier), and her characters seem to act in certain ways that are not fitting.***Spoilers Follow***************************************************************SPOILERS BELOWThe book is centered around a high-school shooting, the culprit a teenage boy named Peter Houghton, who to my mind is not a very convincing villain.
Every time you begin to thing Peter was in the right, an angry and upset parent stands up and says something to make you think again.
We think we know exactly what happened, but as the story progresses and we delve deeper into various characters psyche we begin to realize everything is not what it seems.
I don't want to spoil anything, but if you're like me you'll begin to suspect things earlier on.
It's such an amazingly sensitive story, to critique it too much might skew your own opinion going into it.
Other mistakes these parents made were writing off Peter's anti social behaviors for normal teenage boy actions, and not really trying to have a relationship with him.
At least it wasn't as bad of a situation as Peter's parents were in, where the damage had all been done and there was no repairing any of it.6.
And of course, Peter and Josie needed to pay for their actions.
She foreshadowed a bit that something big was up, but I didn't feel that what Josie ultimately did made a ton of sense in the situation.
One big problem with the book is that I was expected to think - or at least consider - that a kid being bullied for years is an excuse to shoot up a high school, killing not only the cliche popular jerks but also several innocent bystanders.
But here's the real reason the book gets one star, and I don't consider this a spoiler because I think people deserve to be warned about this: the morbid fascination of school shootings stems from, I believe, the mystery of why any kid would go to such an extreme.
My sophomore year of high school, a classmate of mine gave a presentation on this book saying it was her favorite of all time, and ever since then I've been interested in what she loved so much about it.
Books about school shootings have always intrigued me, but they're especially relevant today.
This book is now a bit dated.
This shooting in the book occurred in 2007, and the media and technology have evolved so much now that parts of this felt antiquated.This was still worth the read after owning it for 4+ years, but I can't say it's one of my new favorites.
This is a powerful read.
After an act of violence is perpetuated at the local high school, those 19 minutes change a New Hampshire town forever.
The writing is riveting and poignant.
We are reading about the events leading up to the climax.
It's a lot to take in.
It makes you think about the signs you are possibly not seeing.
It makes you think about things done to you or things you may have done to others.
The writing was just stellar.
There is a lot of physical violence.
This time Picoult wanted to portray a community, a school, where innocent students were bullied by the jocks.
From the eye of a seventeen year old boy, Peter Houghton, the act of killing is just the beginning of everything and the act of killing himself to free from his past.Josie Cormier, lying in a blood bath, nobody knows if she was dead or alive but the simple glitch of her body she was discovered to be the only survivor who never injured totally.
I don't know, maybe she extended her research not only the part of the bullied but also the effect of the simple crime to a child plus her experience.
A minha opinião em vídeo: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AlicM...Simplesmente adorei este livro. Toda a história à volta do bullying e do massacre que aconteceu na escola, o desenvolvimento e depoimento das personagens, a maneira que está contado...perfeito.Mais um excelente livro da Jodi Picoult.
The only other Picoult book I read was My Sister's Keeper, and I enjoyed it quite a bit.
Her formula for keeping the reader engaged works very well.But I had some issues with this book that annoyed the hell out of me.
Exactly like that!Ugh. You know, for the most part, this was a pretty solid read, formula-wise.
But every time I came upon one of these ridiculous analogies, it took me out of the story and I'd think, why the hell was that needed??
(hide spoiler)]Alright, so that's it for Jodi Picoult.
It was obvious that Picoult seems to share the same allegiance to the bullied, but I would have liked to hear a little more about the stories of those who were shot and understand their motivations.
It makes you wish everyone could live high school with the empathy and understanding we receive later in life, or at least a glimpse of how we will someday overcome it.(view spoiler)[The person I related to the most was Angela Phlug who told Peter in her letter that she would have liked to friends with him.
Of course, that little plot twist is so ridiculous, at least when offered at the rate that Picoult spews them up for the delight of her idiotic claque of bovine "readers," that any central issue that once may have been considered almost sacrosanct is reduced to senseless drivel that makes for easy ridicule, as evidenced above.School shootings or bullying are topics that should not be mismanaged to the point of hilarity, and they certainly shouldn't be used by hack writers cashing in on the public's worst fears to make a few (thousand) bucks.
Either that's the case here, or Picoult is just a terrible writer.
This was an incredible book! I was so engrossed in it and the ending..Oh my! I absolutely find this book devastating and fascinating. This is easily my new favorite Jodi Picoult book. It is sad and eye opening on the truth and expanse of bullying. Once again Picoult weaves in a story of more controversial topics and slays it. My quick and simple overall: sad but it is incredibly interesting to read. Fantastic story that touches the reader.
Wow! This book really makes you think!! I suggest it to everyone!
Exceptionally written novel that shows us what's in the mind of a fictional school shooter, what led him to commit the crime, and how his actions affect the lives of his family and friends. Picoult is a master at character development.
Nineteen Minutes is Jodi Picoult’s most recent novel, and I predict it will become her best seller to date.
Nineteen Minutes doesn’t contain the artistic writing that Picoult’s earlier novels did.
She wove together threads of personality and insight to create beautiful rich tapestries that were character studies, and by introducing me to a new character I learned something of value.In Nineteen Minutes, Picoult told a story – a good one.
I hope that your new found audience (who WILL buy anything with you name on it) will read some of your earlier novels and see the beauty and intricacies of your writing.
Picoult writes books that are easy to read, yet usually compelling topics that are presented in a way that easily spark thought and discussion.
I don't see myself giving any more of her books that I read more than 3 stars, because whereas I typically give the books credit for broaching difficult topics and presenting them is such a way to make the reader think, I don't think they're written in a particularly creative style.
The three stars is solely credit for tackling the difficult topics and because her writing isn't BAD, it's just not original anymore.
The subject matter is really hard to deal with, especially if you have teenagers or have ever been ridiculed at school.
For me, I wanted to go take my kids out of school and sit down with them and really, really discuss this!
And I wanted to just hug them and tell them how much I loved them, and pray that they are never subjected to the kind of pain that some kids face every day they walk through the school doors.With this story you are asked to identify how far justice should go and what is Right and wrong.
Net neabejoju, jog didžioji dauguma jau senai esatę skaitę šią knygą.
Galbūt ir sąmoningai, bet ilgą laiką šios knygos neprisiruošiau perskaityti, o dabar nusprendžiau, jog laikas.
Dar nesu perskaičiusi visų parašytų Jodi knygų, bet galiu taip pat drąsiai teigti, jog ši knyga tikrai stipriausia jos knyga.Kaip visuomet Picoult knygoje įdomiai pateiktas pats teisminis procesas, paauglių gyvenimas mokykloje, įtaigūs veikėjų portretai.
O ypač autorė puikiai padirbėjo su knygos pabaiga, jau ko ko, bet jos tokios tai tikrai nesitikėjau.Pati knyga sukėlė daug emocijų.
Ir iki ko tai galų gale privedė..Knygą rekomenduoju perskaityti tiems, kam norisi jautrios, įtraukiančios bei sukrečiančios istorijos.
This was my first Piccoult novel. I really liked it. Reflecting on this has made me think I need to re visit some more of her writing. This I look forward to. Sometimes I need a reminder.
Columbine happened when I was a senior in high school, just a couple months short of graduation.
The way she follows the police detective, the judge, the accused, and one victim is in-depth and the backstory provided gives, if not a total method, at least some peek into the harsh experiences of high school students at varying social levels.
It's another thing to wonder if I would feel that way myself, if my child were involved in something so horrific.
I really feel this book well haunt me.
It left a strong impression on my heart.
I loved the writing style which gave me a window into all sides of the story from parents of the students, victims, lawyers, judge, shooter, shooter's parents and so on.
If my kids were older teens I'd like them to read this as well.
Bullying is a huge problem and this was an extreme case.
Kids never should have to suffer as Peter endured bullying all his school years.
I know schools are more aware of this issue today but I'll be looking into the bullying policy in my children's school much closer.
Sterling is an ordinary New Hampshire town where nothing ever happens--until the day its complacency is shattered by an act of violence.
Josie Cormier, the daughter of the judge sitting on the case, should be the state's best witness, but she can't remember what happened before her very own eyes--or can she?
Jodi Picoult has a talent for making you feel bad and rooting for the "villain" characters in her books.
Maybe because she makes them human with average flaws and maybe because you understand their feelings, hurt, and actions.
I wish schools would make children read this book, so they understand their actions and how they treat others.
Is there a shelf for a book I have to stop reading because I can't stand something about it? In this case, that the writer is a machine that swallows magazines whole and spews out a topic of the month.
I held out as long as I could while reading it-I admit, I am compelled to read books about school shootings, such as Columbine by Dave Cullen and We Need to Talk About Kevin by Lionel Shriver.
I felt this book was very, very good.Maybe I'm predisposed to like it because of my interest in school shootings (maybe, in defense of so low an interest because I'm a teacher and because my daughter was about to enter high school at the time of the Columbine shootings but who knows?).
And just like I did in We need to Talk About Kevin, as soon as I finished the last page, I felt compelled to read the book again.So I did.
My introduction to Jodi Picoult was through the book My Sister's Keeper, which was one of the best books that I read last year.
I quickly picked up several more of her novels after I wept like a baby reading my Sister's Keeper.
The book is written from several different perspectives: the shooter (who was a bullied kid at the school), his mom, the police detective who was one of the first on the scene, his childhood best friend, etc.
This might be my last shot at a Jodi Picoult novel.
A review can't do this book justice, but I feel I must say something. It's been a long time since I finished a novel feeling so emotionally drained and, yet, so rewarded. Reading this — perhaps Picoult's most infamous novel — is an experience unlike any other. Do yourself a favor and check it out, now. My favorite read of 2017 (so far).
I've read quite a lot of Picoult now.
I started on a high note - My Sister's Keeper, which apart from the cop-out ending, was a really fantastic read.
It started off ok, but one major character turned out to be a red herring and just another woman in need of a f*** and her opposite number, who looked like she was going to be an uber-earth mother, was a mess.
Maybe its like film stars who know when to stop, maybe writers should know when they've hit their peak and retire too.
4,5*Um livro que me surpreendeu bastante!
The tragic premise of a school shooting by a lonely nerdy boy, Peter, who has been bullied constantly since he started school for being "different" and until one day after years of torment and abuse, he finally snaps and takes a backpack full of guns to school and he kills ten people.
Jodi Picoult skilfully explores the events leading up to and following the shooting from all angles, and she does it so subtly that before you know it, you are completely absorbed in the characters lives.
Although the actions of Peter cannot be condoned, I found myself sympathizing with the character and the bullying that he suffered.
In my lowest moments, what lengths would I have gone to in order to make it stop?
I was anxiously looking forward to seeing how the author would resolve this question.
However, just as in her other book I read, My Sister's Keeper, she copped out in the end and chose not to resolve the issue at all.
Everyone praises the author for being "brave" enough to tackle these issues and yet, at the last moment, she chickens out and shies away from hard topic.
Fumblerooski!This is absolutely the last book I will be reading by this author.
