https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/368564.The_Rooster_Crows
This is not a story, only a collection of rhymes of children from the 40s. Some of them are for games and others are for counting. The art is lovely here. I don't see why it won as there is not a story, but I have noticed these Mid 40s books often are collections of little things, songs. They were experimenting here. I read this to the nephew and he was not too into it. He gave it one star. 'It's Boring' he said.
On first glance it might seem too "old-fashioned" for today's readers but I think it still has a lot to offer.
In fact, I was completely surprised to find that my one-year-old son was really drawn to the illustrations.
I love the illustrations!
I'd never heard it with the black wool version.) The children in the illustrations are all so expressive and perhaps it is their faces that make these so timeless even though the settings and clothing are so different from ours today.
American rhymes and jingles set to scrumptious illustrations!Ages: 4 - 9**Like my reviews? I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too. These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't. I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website!
We loved this book for many reasons.
The book is full of jingles and rhymes and so many of them brought back memories from when I was a kid.
Sitting on the play ground hitting each others hands to different songs?) were just some of the things that I used to do to these rhymes.
Not only that, many of them I had already taught my children, or we had heard at story time at the library, and they loved that!
We even loved the rhymes we didn't know, and look forward to memorizing those as well.
The subtitle is: A Book of American Rhymes and Jingles. And that’s what it is, a collection of rhymes and jingles. Most were familiar to me from my childhood. There really is no story arc, though there is some effort to group them by categories, e.g. jokes/riddles. I’m not sure I would have sat still to have this read to me even as a young child. The illustrations are wonderful, however. Very detailed and clearly support the rhymes and jingles. So 2 stars for that.
Definitely one of my favorite Caldecott winners! The illustrations are perfect and precious. It's all very cute-sy, but I love that. It's amazing how much a simple nursery rhyme can change since 1945, but it was great fun reading a previous version of many of them. My favorite would have to be:"Mary had a little lamb,Its fleece was black as tar.And everywhere that Mary wentThey thought it was a b-a-a-r."Love it!
I read this book for one of my GR's children's book clubs.
It was a Caldecott winner in the year I was born and I remember having this book on my shelf as a child.
It brings back special memories to me and I loved (and still do) the simple rhymes, jingles, and poems.
I think every child should have a book like this to read and be read to.
So many of these little ditties will be lost if we don't continue to recite them to our children and grandchildren.
This collection of American counting rhymes, jump rope songs, and finger games is one of the best.
1946 Caldecott MedalYes, the illustrations are old and the book feels outdated, but I ended up enjoying this book. It has Old Mother Goose rhymes, finger games with illustrations on how to perform them, rope skipping and counting-out rhymes, and a few games. I loved that a few of the rhymes were some that my grandmother used to recite and have been passed down through generations. I would love to see this book republished with fresh illustrations and a few poems, so that we can keep passing these rhymes and riddles down through our families.
the rhyme has illustration so the reader can understand to put your hand together like a knife, and end with a cradle which helps kids and makes the book even more interesting.
The setting and clothing are very different from our time today(2014) which may seem like the book is old fashioned, but it has much to show in the enjoyable pictures.
Little details such as the children wearing overalls, children wearing bonnets, and just the overall color structure highlights the time frame of these rhymes.
The children's faces in the illustration show much feelings and expression.This is a cute book full of short little poems.
First sentence: Here is part of America's heritage--gay verses beautifully illustrated by famous artists.Premise/plot: The Rooster Crows is a Caldecott award-winner from the 1940s.
Finger Games.
Counting-Out Rhymes.
Games.
I asked my mother for fifty centsTo see the elephant jump the fence.He jumped so highHe reached the skyAnd never came back till the Fourth of July.Mary had a little lamb,Its fleece was black as tar.And everywhere that Mary wentThey thought it was a b-a-a-r.I eat my peas with honey,I've done it all my life.It makes the peas taste funny,But it keeps them on my knife.
My thoughts: It was a pleasant enough read.
Some of the illustrations were absolutely amazing.
Some rhymes were more enjoyable than others.
One depicts some children w/wings on clouds, as though they are angels, which is not my favorite subject for an illustration since it's contrary to the Bible, so that's a discussion point.
There are a few love/romantic themes I might want to discuss in some of the rhymes, but nothing really out of the ordinary -- typical silly nursery rhymes.
It could easily be read in one sitting to younger children.
A fun one we got a kick out of was, "I eat my peas with honey, I've done it all my life.
It makes the peas taste funny, but it keeps them on my knife." :)
Some of these rhymes were new to me, most weren't.
I remember the jump rope rhymes though they weren't even used much when I was a kid.
Liked the illustrations but wasn't sure what to make of the cross look or grumpy look on most of the faces.
Kind of liked that no one had plastic smiles but more 'real' expressions.
Was fun to see the old-fashioned clothes and settings.
Could be fun to use for homeschool if you play the games that go with some of those.
This book is a classic. It's like Mother Goose for America. Rhymes that I remember from my childhood, that I don't remember seeing in a book before:"How much wood would a woodchuck chuck""Yankee Doodle""First's the worst, second's the same""Fuzzy Wuzzy was a bear""Teddy Bear, Teddy Bear, turn around""Here is the church, here is the steeple"This book was published in 1945
You can find room for another book of nursery rhymes.Especially this one. The artwork is interesting, and not all of the rhymes are going to be familiar to you and your child.Anybody looking for another rhyme to bounce a kid to or to recite or sing to shut them up, you can't spend a better $10 than on this book.
wonderful rhymes - what a perfect gift book! there isn't a white new mother that wouldn't love it! The only negative? being as it was done in the 1940s none of the beautiful illoes have non-white people in them. one question does anyone know what this poem means? "A knife and a fork! A bottle and a cork! that's the way to spell New York."
I need to figure out how to incorporate this one into the curriculum. So many of my ELL's have no clue of these traditional rhymes and yet there are references throughout our language and language arts curriculum.
I really liked this book and laughed through almost all of it. My mom enjoyed telling me some of the different versions of the rhymes that she knew.
My 7 year old daughter found this book fascinating.
We had some fun pointing out how these rhymes and jingles have changed over the years.
This book was published in 1945 and it's interesting how the rhymes still in circulation have undergone a few changes or lost entire verses.
Overall though, the book doesn't really provide many rhymes or finger plays that would be fun to use with modern children.
I did like that they actually showed the finger plays that went with the rhyme.
Definitely an old-fashioned book and with some rhymes that wouldn't be acceptable to use today.
A book filled with old rhymes and exquisite artwork! The Rooster Crows is filled with fun rhymes and games, both forgotten and remembered, with illustrations to match. While some illustrations are modest in their palette (sticking to blues and tans), some full page illustrations make use of what seems to be every color imaginable. The Petershams certainly knew how to keep kids entertained—I could sing the rhymes and look at the pictures all day! Overall, this is a humble book that is perfect for weekends and summer vacations. Great for grades 1-5.Review cross-listed
I own a lot of rhyme/poetry books for children and was least impressed by this one.In comparison, all of the other books are much more lengthy with a wider selection-including most of what was in this book. A few of them also offer background/historical/regional information about their chosen selections which helps tremendously when trying to understand or explain the content of a rhyme/jingle/poem that has been completely unheard of by myself or anyone I know. Also, it’s just fun and interesting to learn the folklore, times, or culture that led to it’s creation.
3 years of showing and singing some of these very rhymes to my son, I'm aware that they are really blood-thirsty.
I should see if these look better during the day.I'm not sure if my son likes this particular book.
Some other notes:Some of the rhymes that I didn't know and liked were: "Lazy Mary" (because lol, and how inappropriate for my little one), "Mother May I Go Out to Swim".
Some rhymes that I did know but were slightly changed, and not for the better: "Ring around a'rosies", "Mary Had a Little Lamb".This version of Mary and her little lamb is truly terrible.
"As sure as the vine Twines 'round the stump You're my darling sugar lump." —The Rooster Crows: A Book of American Rhymes and Jingles This book is one of the best at gathering common American nursery rhymes from yesteryear and compiling them into a solidly relevant collection.
I think it's great that a book like this can still be enjoyed by kids no matter what generation they belong to, and that it is primarily these basic nursery rhymes that bind our childhoods from past and present together and give our young selves common ground on which to stand.
My love for you will never fail As long as pussy has a tail." —The Rooster Crows: A Book of American Rhymes and Jingles
Many of these have a lovely repetitive meter and rhyme for two or three lines, and then fall flat.
Some of the rhymes I recognized, with slightly different words.
I can get behind slightly different words.
Here's one:Ring around a' rosiesPocket full of posiesSweet bread, rye breadSquatThe ending neither rhymes nor follows the rhythm of the song.
Others in this collection just don't make any sense at all.
I mean like this:A knife and a forkA bottle and a corkThat's the way toSpell New YorkNo it's not.
If it ended "that's the way to rhyme New York," it would make sense.
This 1946 Caldecott Medalist is a treasure trove for anyone interested in stepping back into parts of American history through the games and jingles that were popular several decades ago.
It's interesting to note how some of them have changed a great deal while others have not, and some are still in favor while others have been relegated to the past.
The book is divided into Rhymes and Jingles, Finger Games, Rope Skipping Rhymes, Counting-Out Rhymes, Games, and Yankee Doodle.
It might be fun to share this book with some of today's jump rope champs so they can note the history behind their chants.
The illustrations in The Rooster Grows definitely supported the text by being a reflection of the American rhymes and jingles.
Each short rhyme and jingle had its own illustration that helped to establish a setting and define its characters.
Examples that highlighted the time frame of these rhymes included little details such as the characters wearing bonnets, children wearing overalls, and just the overall color scheme.
Even the cursive font that was used in the illustrations and headings added to the establishment of the time frame.
In addition to teaching readers about older American tales, this is a great book for them to practice with rhyming patterns.
This book carries a collection of well over fifty nursery rhymes, riddles, jump rope rhymes, jingles and hand games.
While there were many rhymes, riddles, and jingles, not all of them had an illustration to go along with them.
The author and the illustrator seemed to have chosen the text that were better explained by both text and illustrations such as the ‘this little pig rhyme’.
This book is a good book when teaching about poems and it is also a good book to learn new rhymes when playing jump rope or playing with your hands.
I'd never heard of most of the counting rhymes and they butchered "Ring around the Rosy." I didn't care for their selection as most were odd or morbid.
There was one rhyme that I hadn't heard of, and wasn't sure of the purpose of it, but I enjoyed it and wanted to share:  Monday's child is fair of face, Tuesday's child is full of grace, Wednesday's child is full of woe, Thursday's child has far to go, Friday's child is loving and giving, Saturday's child works hard for a living,  But the child that is born on the Sabbath day Is blythe and bonny and good and gay.
The Rooster Crows by Maud and Miska Petersham is very spcial because it includes rhymes and jingles.
A lot of books these days no longer includes these types of stories.
The illustrations in this book are important in my opinion to understanding the point of the rhymes and jingles.
The illustrations are done in pencil and they have so much detail, which makes it crazy to think that they were done in pencil.The characters clothing also portrays the time period of the rhymes.
This book consists of rhymes and jingles that are customary to many childhood memories.
Each rhyme and jingle is accompanied by illustrations, but I don’t think they are as helpful as they could be because they don’t necessarily relate to the passage.
This book would serve better as a resource in a home or classroom, rather than a story for children.
The illustrations attempt to portray each rhyme and jingle in an interesting manner, however, it is difficult because these jingles are not stories.
There is one illustration for each passage and they are extremely detailed.
For example, under games, “Ring around a’ rosies, Pocket full of posies,Sweetbread, rye bread,Squat!”The purpose of the would be a read aloud for K-1 children.
Each start of a poem starts with a capital letter.
This book is full of rhymes that enhance the meaning and keep the children engaged.
These poems are simple and classic and can teaches the students to think differently.
There are revised versions of classic poems i knew as a child.
Illustrations and text go hand in hand to enhance the meaning.
Also, this book would be good when teaching about American tales in the past.
