https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/830990.The_Science_Fiction_Hall_of_Fame
I have not read all of the books in this collection but will comment on the ones I have:Call Me Joe (Poul Anderson)(1957): 6.0 Stars (One of my All Time Favorite Stories).
A story of identity and quality of life.The Marching Morons (C.M. Kornbluth)(1951): 5.0 to 5.5 Stars.
Short prequel Novella set a few years before Smith's classic novel Norstrilia in which Jestocost, a Lord of the Instrumentality, conspires with C'Mell, an underperson, to improve the lot of the underpeople.
(read June 6, 2010) Vintage season (Henry Kuttner & C.L. Moore): 4.0 stars.
(read June 6, 2010)
I have to quibble: C'Mell is 20 pp, hardly a novella. This book didn't take long to read, as most stories were quite familiar to me from other anthologies. And some just don't hold up all that well. But as an introduction to some of the foundational & inspirational classics, it's quite good.
I think I've probably read that story twice before and I've probably seen the excellent and faithful George Pal movie (1960)a couple times, as well.
The story focuses on an exploratory mission to a planet inhabited by colonists who now call themselves "Ghandians." It turns out that they have developed a whole culture based on Ghandi's principles of civil disobedience.
Campbell; "Vintage Season," by C.L. Moore & Henry Kuttner; and "The Marching Morons," by C.M. Kornbluth.
"Vintage Season" is an ingenious story about time-traveling "tourists" from the future.
Perhaps Moore and Kuttner are not so well remembered today because they focused their energies on short stories and novellas instead of novels.
Heinlein -- [spoiler alert] Intriguing story where the perceived good guys and bad guys are really the reverse.
Heinlein's narrative voice is, as usual, very attractive, if somewhat too "pulpish" (i.e. redolent of pulp fiction).I notice that many science-fiction stories seem too tied to the trappings of the genre.
Heinlein's "Universe," for instance, has a very appealing off-the-cuff quality which does reflect the personalities of its characters.
It's the best thing in the story."Vintage Season" by Lawrence O'Donnell -- [spoiler alert] Fascinating -- until it all tumbles into a welter of pessimistic determinism.
Here too may be the first playing out of “mutants” or “muties” as an exiled caste.As usual with Heinlein, some of the scenes come off as “clunky,” the heroic plot-line predictable, and many of the characters as “stock.”The scenes, however, where Hugh comes “out of his ignorance” to see the universe for the first time are written very well—if only Heinlein suspended such moments and scenes just a little bit more.Ultimately, Universe becomes a story of a “lost,” ignorant human race struggling to learn of their purpose and their destination—a parallel to our “here and now,” (and indeed, our whole past as well)—whether living on a wayward spaceship or a wayward planet.4.
I'm a Heinlein fan, and I think this is a good, representational sample of his work.
Another enjoyable read - also a good sample of their work.
An almost creepy story - how psi powers could be used to create a new type of human - told through the eyes of a young man at a psychiatrist's office.
" The Time Machine" - H.G. Wells - if you saw the most recent movie incarnation of this story (as I must admit I have :rolleyes:) -- go back & read the book.
It's a bit heavy-handed at times, but required reading for any SF fan.
This is a treasure trove of older science fiction classic novellas.
As a character says, "The average IQ is now 45." Why not just let the ungifted die out through stupidity?
Another favorite is Russell's "And Then There Were None." A sort of libertarian work, in which residents of a planet had seen their society evolve in a very different path from a galactic state.
The central government decided to reassert authority over "The Gands" (residents of the planet, followers of the ideas of Gandhi).
The society of the Gands is libertarian, with people having no right to define the duties of another.
An anthology of epic proportions in both concept and literary execution. Volumes IIA and IIB are comprised of novellas instead of short stories like Vol. I which is why it is split into two sub-volumes. However it packs a serious punch and sits near the top of my recommendation list for anyone interested in fiction.
Stories too long to be in Vol 1. This is for both 2a and 2bMy favorites:2A:Heinlein's "Universe"Eric Frank Russel "... And then there were none" Sturgeon "Baby is Three"2B:Asimov "The martian way"Blish "Earthman Come Home"Vance "The Moon Moth"
These are mostly of novella length rather than short stories, including "Who Goes There," the story that was filmed as "The Thing."Great collection.
Some stories are better than others; but as a whole, a strong collection. My favorites include "The Ballad of Lost C'Mell," by Cordwainer Smith, and "Baby is Three," by Ted Sturgeon.
L. Moore : Very stylish time travelling tale only suffers from holding onto its punch for too long.And Then There Were None · Eric Frank Russell: This has one of the best confrontational dialogues I have ever read; my second favourite in the collection.The Ballad of Lost C’Mell · Cordwainer Smith: Great idea, weak execution.Baby Is Three · Theodore Sturgeon: One of the original X-Men stories of Sturgeon; it only suffers from packing too many things (psychology, racism, free-flow narrative) into a short story.The Time Machine [Time Machine] · H.
Call Me Joe (1957) by Poul Anderson 5/5Who Goes There? (1938) John W. Campbell 5/5Nerves (1942) by Lester del Rey 5/5Universe (1941) by Robert A. Heinlein 5/5 1st part of Orphans of the Sky - 2nd part equally enjoyableThe Marching Morons (1951) by C. M. Kornbluth 3/5Vintage Season (1946) by Henry Kuttner & C.L. Moore 3/5...And Then There Were None (1951) by Eric Frank Russell 4/5The Ballad of Lost C'Mell (1962) by Cordwainer Smith 3/5Baby Is Three (1952) by Theodore Sturgeon 5/5The Time Machine (1895) novel by H. G. Wells 5/5With Folded Hands (1947) by Jack Williamson 5/5

This is another collection of true classics. H.G. Wells, one of Heinlein's best, one of Eric Frank Russell's best, terrific stories from Cordwainer Smith and Poul Anderson, the Campbell story that became famous films, stories by Lester Del Rey and Jack Williamson that were better than their longer novel versions... Classic stuff!
Another set of terrific works, this time novellas, in the Science Fiction Hall of Fame. Ben Bova edited this volume. Some of nthe classics that I have enjoyed immensely that are included: Isaac Asimov, "The Martian Way," Algis Budrys, "Rogue Moon," Frederik Pohl, "The Midas Plague," and Jack Vance's "The Moon Moth."A fine collection of novellas. . . .
This is a nice collection of some of the early works of some of the great masters of Sci Fi. My former instructor and mentor Jack Williamson is in this one, and it was one of my first readings of his work. A fun look back.
This is a great book of science fiction writing. All of the stories are very good.
vintage season by kuttner and moore... an original favourite
Volume II (at least two parts, A and B) is "The Greatest Science Fiction Novellas of All Time".
Classic science fiction stories that defined the genre.
My own favorite story is "Mimsy Were the Borogoves". "X-logic" helped me toward a greater understanding of algebra! Well for a while, at least. Also check out "Macroscopic God"...
Through these Science Fiction Hall of Fame compilations, I am learning to love short stories.
For some reason I had this ignorant mindset that short stories could not, would not give me the same satisfaction as a full novel.
With Volume 2A, there were a few stories I had a difficult time staying interested in.
His voice took an excellent story to the next level.The stories I didn't care for are "Call Me Joe" by Poul Anderson, "The Ballad of Lost C'Mell" by Cordwainer Smith, and "The Time Machine" by H.
Links where I could find them.• Call Me Joe • (1957) • novelette by Poul Anderson.
Campbell, Jr.• Nerves • (1942) • novella by Lester del Rey• Universe • (1941) • novelette by Robert A.
http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/51233.
http://www.abelard.org/e-f-russell.php A very unusual invasion.
4-star.• The Ballad of Lost C'mell • [The Instrumentality of Mankind] • (1962) • novelette by Cordwainer Smith.
4 star, by memory• Baby Is Three • (1952) • novella by Theodore Sturgeon• The Time Machine • (1895) • novel by H.
http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/35 4 stars, still a classic• With Folded Hands • [Humanoids] • (1948) • novelette by Jack Williamson.
Not to my taste, 2-stars.--------------Note 1.
An eclectic collection of science fiction that spans many writers and styles, some better than others.
I found the very diverse nature of this book created a choppy reading experience as it never really settled into a comfortable gait.
There are many excellent writers and some examples of their finest writing, H.G. Wells story The Time Travellers is an excellent example of this.
It is a very fine work that stands well on its own but I found that in this collection it seemed orphaned and alien amongst the others stories.
I never entered into a comfortable gait reading this book and have no eager desire to read it's companion series.

Although some of the stories might be dated and some of the technologies presented as working might be deemed impossible today, this anthology should still be read by most of the people a few reasons being:- it shows how people where thinking some 70 years ago and what their aspirations and views on the future were;- the anthology contains some masterpieces and hidden gems (literally world literature classics that transcended the SciFI genre);- some of the ideas presented are still of actuality and will make you (re)think about the world and where we're heading to.
I found The Science Fiction hall of Fame: Volume 2B to be the better edition. That being said, I think that is just the difference in the eras of science fiction. The ending in this particular volume tend to be less optimistic on technology. Right now I can use as much technological optimist as I can take. That being said, I understand why these stories are influential, and the ideas certainly gave me something to think about, and consider different paths that life may take.
I had read most of these novellas at least twice in the past and as the title and forward describe, these a canonical works of the SciFi genre. This time I listened to an awesome book-on-tape recording (available through Audible.com) and found it yet as wondrous as before and newly enlivened by the excellent vocal performances. If you like SciFi (or in particular have never really read any of the material from SciFi's "golden years") then you simply MUST read this.
Good collection, mostly good stories, a couple duds. I mainly bought this for John W. Campbell's origin story about The Thing.
