https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/224500.Point_Blank
Seriously loved the turn of events at the end. And the suspense!However, this reminded me a lot of an episode from Totally Spies called ''Dolphin Drama'' in which Alex is enrolled by her parents in a fancy boarding school where scientists extract people's wits... although in this case it's more about the body than what is inside of it.
In this new mission, Alex Rider has to infiltrate a secretive boarding school for spoiled teenage kids of rich parents who need a little bit of etiquette.So Alex Rider takes on a new identity… and personality!
I must say, if spying as a career does not work out in the end for this young man, he could surely become an actor.I mean, he is really, really good at making people see what they want to see and not who he truly is.
But I can’t help it, Alex Rider so needs a hug, especially after what Alan Blunt did to him.

Anthony really knows how to write crazy good villains and it shows with the two main villains in this book because they are both all sorts of crazy and i would not like to face them myself.
The characters were more funnier, the plot was action packed and evolved for me since the first book and i'm thankful that happened.
I enjoyed this book, the ending of this book was crazy good and i know i didn't enjoy stormbreaker but this second book point blank really saved it for me and i will definitely continue on with this series after this strong second book.
Liked this better than Stormbreaker, because the involvement of a 14-year old spy seemed more credible, but perhaps it just took a second book?
Alex Rider is coerced to masquerade as a hell child of a magnate to enter a prestigious school, where miscreants are re-educated.
When two parents die under unusual circumstances, MI6 decides something is wrong there.
Alex is sent to a mountaintop in Switzerland, where he is basically on his own to discover what is rotten there and uncovers a devious plot by a sociopath.
Addendum: Great murder at the beginning involving a holographic projection of an elevator in an empty shaft!!
Synopsis: After completing his first mission with MI6, teenage spy Alex Rider is sent on another quest: to discover the truth about Point Blank, a school for troubled youth.
Posing as the son of a wealthy businessman, Alex goes to the school, only to be weirded out by what he sees.
টিনেজ উইজারড, ডেমিগড, ভযামপায়ার এসব এর কাহিনী পড়তে পড়তে আসলেও একটু বোরিং বোরিং লাগছিল। একটু রিয়েলিসটিক কিছু পড়তে ইচছে করছিল। তখন ই মনে হল পয়েনট বলযাংক এর কথা। আমাদের টিনেজ জেমস বনড। :)  এবং নিরাশ হতে হয়নি। বরং সিরিজটার পরতি আগরহ আরো বহুগুণে বেড়ে গেল। বই এর শুরু থেকে শেষ -পুরোটা মনোযোগ ধরে রাখতে বাধয। আদরশ সপাই থরিলার। শুরুতে পলট টা হয়ত তেমন কিছু মনে হবে না, কিনতু একটু পরেই একদম মাথা ঘুরিয়ে দেয়ার মত পলট বের হয়ে আসবে। লেখক আসলেই অনেক ভাল লেখেন।  একশন, সপাই গযাজেট, ধাওয়া-ধাওয়ি মিলিয়ে পারফেকট একটা ব
টিনেজ উইজার্ড, ডেমিগড, ভ্যাম্পায়ার এসব এর কাহিনী পড়তে পড়তে আসলেও একটু বোরিং বোরিং লাগছিল। একটু রিয়েলিস্টিক কিছু পড়তে ইচ্ছে করছিল। তখন ই মনে হল পয়েন্ট ব্ল্যাংক এর কথা। আমাদের টিনেজ জেমস বন্ড। :)  এবং নিরাশ হতে হয়নি। বরং সিরিজটার প্রতি আগ্রহ আরো বহুগুণে বেড়ে গেল। বই এর শুরু থেকে শেষ -পুরোটা মনোযোগ ধরে রাখতে বাধ্য। আদর্শ স্পাই থ্রিলার। শুরুতে প্লট টা হয়ত তেমন কিছু মনে হবে না, কিন্তু একটু পরেই একদম মাথা ঘুরিয়ে দেয়ার মত প্লট বের হয়ে আসবে। লেখক আসলেই অনেক ভাল লেখেন।  একশন, স্পাই গ্যাজেট, ধাওয়া-ধাওয়ি মিলিয়ে পারফেক্ট একটা বই।
This is the book that got me hooked on the Alex Rider series. Anthony Horrowitz was so clever in making up this story. How he made it sound realistic but I also think it was a bit science fiction-ish but I liked that about it. When a crazy scientist makes clones of himself and replaces sons of multimillionaires with them it sounds impossible right? But not for Anthony Horrowitz.
3.5 Kick ass starsI read this book a long time ago and enjoyed it a lot especially because the main character is a fourteen years old male devoid of the usual teenage angst. This book is the second in the Alex Rider series where Alex is a spy in training for MI6. During the course of his training Alex learns more about the world and uncovers a potentially deadly secret which leads our hero into a daring adventure. This was a fun and entertaining book with likeable characters and fantastic action.
These are addicting. I think I am gonna read the third one before I go to bed.
4.5 Stars. Part young Bond, part MacGyver and totally awesome! I love Alex's dry wit, and his reluctance to be a super spy. It sets the series a part and makes it so fun. This one was a tiny bit predictable, so not quite a 5 star read for me. But this is probably the 5th or so time I've read this book since I was a teenager, and I love it every time.
Such as fast-paced suspense-filled book! I loved every page of this book!! Alex is such a funny and witty character and, this is such an interesting series that I think I will never get bored of. Can't wait to read the next book!
It took me 27 days to read this not-even-300-page book. BUT I REALLY LIKED IT, I PROMISE. IT'S NOT THE BOOK'S FAULT AT ALL.I really like the action - I swear, there's never a dull moment. If you want a break from slow-burning plots, pick up Alex Rider.Alex has a dry sense of humor. Alex is smart. Alex is super brave - or maybe he's super stupid, who can tell?Either way, Alex is awesome.
Where in Stormbreaker Alex Rider started out being innocent and just a normal school boy, and ended up as a boy interested in spy work, in Point Blanc he changes so much more.
Alex really had an adventure this time, and there was action all the time (view spoiler)[and really, how badass isn't it to use an ironing board as a sort of snowboard?
Of course there wasn't that much happening in the beginning because the book and Alex as a person had to be introduced, but after just a few pages the action suddenly stars and it just doesn't stop again.
Add hilarious equipment and some crazy badass skills on snowboard, and then you'll have Point Blanc.The first 150 pages was one big summary of the former book, Stormbreaker, which made me leaning to three stars.
I was all fired up, but this book made me hold my breath for a while (view spoiler)[because i thought that Alex was dead in chapter fifth teen (hide spoiler)]Though, i'm not rating it 5 stars, because the book was a little too predictable.
I had figured it all out before Alex.
That makes him a foolish spy or me a badass herione *giggle*I will definitely keep reading this series, because it's so entertaining.
I loved this one even more than the first. Alexonce again is thrown into a dangerous situation by the increasingly nasty and hateful Alan Blunt. This time he is sent undercover to a school in the French mountains.The story is exciting and I think that both adults as well as kids will love it. I like the character of Alex, so resourceful and thinking fast on his feet. I've already got book 3 on its way.
This is the second Alex Rider book that I've read and been completely surprised by how much I like it.Alex's initial stunt to get him back in everyone's radar shocked me! What was he thinking. But from there, although I had reservations about how his assignment was possible to pull off, I think the story did a great job of pulling us through.The end wasn't a huge surprise but it was action packed and full of adventure. I look forward to reading more of the series.
I give this book an "A" plus! This book was full of suspense, and excitement. I was constantly on the edge of my seat. I loved how the M16 spy agency sends a 14 year boy on a deathly mission. Through the story there are a lot of twists and turns. Alex faces many close calls of giving up his identity, but he might not get so lucky in the end!
A novel for children. There isn't an element which can capture the heart of a adult or young adult. But I am sure that the children will be captivated.
So good , Anthony Horowitz really knows how to get the read glued to this series
On one hand I liked this book more than the first one, on the other hand I found it way more creepy.
Although that's probably just me.So this is the second book in the Alex rider series and again, the characters are pretty cool, the adventure is awesome, and well the gadgets speak for themselves.
***** SPOILERS ***** Ok first of all, how creepy was that ending??
I mean obviously it has to be because there are like 8 more books..
I was hoping to see more of that Russian assassin in this one..
I did not manage to picture what she looked like.
The scene is set with the murder of a wealthy businessman, Roscoe.
We watch as Roscoe is murdered.
MI6 intervenes with the police's charges and sends Alex undercover to Point Blanc, a reform school in the Alps, where apparently Roscoe's son goes.
Alex uncovers sinister things going on within the school.Point Blanc was an action-packed, adventurous and suspenseful book.
I liked Mr Blunt's observation: "Most schoolboys dream of being a spy.
With Alex, we have a spy who dreams of being a schoolboy." It would be interesting to find out whether Alex's views change as the series progresses!
Woah, talk about suspense! This book was packed with nonstop action and I loved every single minute of it. The scenes are perfectly set up, giving insight from various perspectives to really establish the events. It was ingenious! I could really imagine everything that was going on - it was as if I was watching a movie. The whole plot was brilliant and keeps you guessing throughout. How Anthony Horowitz comes up with these original conspiracies and ideas, I just don't know. What I do know is that I'll definitely keep reading this series!
It's 007 for children and I very much enjoyed reading it. Of course, the problem that arose was something that would cause international crisis but the plot was rather simple which is appropriate for the target age group. I think I understand why the movie did not continue on following the series but I think it would have still been a fun watch.
Just as good as I remembered!
Read with one of my students. Went down very well.
The major characters’ names are Alex Rider(main), Alan Blunt, Dr.Grief(s)(all 17 of them), agent Wolf (codename), Mrs. Jones, Skoda, Fiona.
The central conflict is that two boys of very powerful men have died while attending the same reformatory school that was assigned to Alex.
Alan Blunt, the director of the spy organization, gets suspicious and sends Alex undercover to check it out.
I read the book Alex rider, Point Blanc, the second book in the series.
And I really liked this book, it kept me on my toes and to wanting to read more.
Overall It was a good, action packed, book.
The main setting of the the book was the school, Point Blanc, located somewhere in the French Alps.
Point Blanc Academy.
The strengths of the book: Entertaining, action packed, and very interesting, keeps you reading.
Im sure the author was never a secret agent, but it the book was still good.
Unfortunately I read this before Stormbreaker.
Just took the book from the stack of three and read.
Actually liked the character.
Like Mrs Jones, I too feel like I was getting attached to Alex after some time.
The thought of Mrs Stomach-bag in pink satin nightie is quite chilling.
I was hoping for some emotions being shared when the 6 kids at Point Blanc were saved...
at least some kind of sharing or discussion between Alex and James & Paul Roscoe when they were set free.
I thought that is an important element.
I'm not ashamed to say how much I am enjoying these books as a grown man! They are light and fun. Like the Bond genre, they rarely have life-changing insights although they occasionally dabble with important global/political issues. This one had a far better plot/villain than the first although it does indulge itself with the same type of silliness that runs rampant in Bond novels/films (ex. his friend named "fiona friend", since he never had to "phone a friend" I'm assuming she'll reappear in later novels.)
