https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19549841-seraphina
Seraphina's life is put into jeopardy when court intrigue and mystery implicates that the treaty between dragons and humans is in danger.Hartman's novel is almost flawlessly executed.
Aside from a few brief flashback sessions, the story is carried entirely by Seraphina who may be half human and half dragon, but she is all brilliant.
I'm sure more reviews will be popping up soon.But, to be honest, I didn't know what to expect when starting this novel.
I will probably read it again and again when I need a laugh, or a romantic story or something to relax to.
I want to go get everyone I know and make them read it.
I wanted to love this but I didn't and it makes me sad
Seraphina is an intelligent fantasy set in a well-realized medieval land of Goredd which is celebrating 40-year anniversary of its peace treaty with the nation of dragons.
The main character of the novel, Seraphina is the one who is to untangle this mystery, but not without some help from Prince Lucian Kiggs, the captain of the Queen's Guard and the fiancee to Princess of the land Glisselda.
It's kind of an odd experience when Seraphina, after just a couple of conversations with Kiggs, suddenly realizes that she is in love, and intensely and irrevocably at that.
maybe people are giving this book five stars because they like the author.
I'll admit that I was a bit annoyed that some things were never fully described (Seraphina's oud only gets a description near the end) and that all of these new words were thrown out at lightning speed, but, that's epic fantasy for you.
She's a fantastic character and one I can't wait to read more about.And then there's Prince Lucian and Princess Glisselda.
Don't get me wrong, the whole book isn't super happy fun times for everyone, but the characters are incredibly multi-dimensional.
I finished Seraphina! And I ended up really liking it :):) will discuss in this months wrap up.
Think you've read everything about dragons?
Think it's a worn-out concept?
Seraphina will make you think again.
Our heroine of the title lives in a human kingdom that is about to celebrate forty years of a peace treaty with the draconian race, but old prejudice dies hard.
When the ruler of the dragons comes to the capital to commemorate the treaty, many factions on both sides wish to sabotage the fragile peace.
The dragons can take on human form -- saarantrai -- which only makes things more complicated.
Needless to say, dragons and humans are forbidden from falling in love, which doesn't mean it never happens .
(I read it twice, and it isn't even out yet!) You see, in Seraphina's world, dragons are able to take human shape--and messy, sloppy human emotions.
Now Seraphina is the assistant to the royal music master, struggling to keep her birth a secret, and caught up in the tensions that surround the celebrations for the 40th anniversary of the peace treaty between the dragons and the humans after a long and bitter war.You see, not all humans want to preserve the treaty.
And not all dragons want to preserve the treaty.
Can they stop a new war?You'll have to read the book.
2/7/18 - ON SALE for $1.99: http://amzn.to/2se90JhReviewed by: Rabid Reads4.5 starsThe oldest of my three younger sisters loves books as much as I do, but doesn't have nearly as much time to read (b/c reasons). Fortunately, I know her well enough to keep recs to what I know she'll love, so she can make the best use of the time she does have, not begrudging me my surplus of time--b/c otherwise, who would weed out the mediocre books? The most recent book I knew she'd love is this one, but I was re
The most recent book I knew she'd love is this one, but I was rereading it before Shadow Scale is released next month, and I couldn't remember if she'd already read it (b/c my memory is crap), so the day after I finished it:Me: Hey, did you ever read Seraphina?Sister: Sarah-what?Me: Se-ra-phin-a.
When Seraphina begins coming into her half dragon-ness as a preteen, she begins to have seizures brought on by strange visions of even stranger creatures she's never seen before.
He uncle, on the dragon (or saar) side, asks that her father hand over the reins of her education:
Objectively, Seraphina meets all the requirements to become the next epic fantasy series: it has an original take on a fairly exploited theme - dragons -, an amazing world-building, a well formed, strong main character, a 5-star-worthy writing style.
To be honest, I haven't read that many books about dragons, and I'd say this is probably on the same level as Eon: Dragoneye Reborn, as far a world-building goes.
I'll sum it up in one word: pacing.Despite the fantastic world-building, the amazing characters and the luscious writing, I had such a hard time getting through this book, I considered abandoning it on more than one occasion.
I wanted to love this book, because..dragons!!
It's not a bad book and it's well written.
I just don't think high fantasy may be one of the genre's that I can really get into.
Too many weird words and names.
I mean Orma and Okra?
I tend to be a lazy reader and if I have to work for it by remembering odd words and names I get to where I just want to put the book down and grab another.
My little requesting finger requested the second book in this series from Netgalley and it sounded so good and th
I wanted to love this book, because..dragons!!
It's not a bad book and it's well written.
I just don't think high fantasy may be one of the genre's that I can really get into.
Too many weird words and names.
I mean Orma and Okra?
I tend to be a lazy reader and if I have to work for it by remembering odd words and names I get to where I just want to put the book down and grab another.
My little requesting finger requested the second book in this series from Netgalley and it sounded so good and the ratings for this one are through the roof...so what did I do?
With Treaty Day swiftly approaching, Seraphina finds herself in the midst of the investigation, assisting Prince Lucian Kiggs in discovering the murderer, all the while trying desperately to hide her own secret: being half dragon.A few things I LOVED about Seraphina:The World Building: I really have to commend Hartman because this is a brilliant debut and I feel very fortunate to have read it months before the release.
But as the novel wears on, we see a growth in Seraphina and her ability to trust and rely on her friends.My favorite character has to be a toss-up between Princess Glisselda and Orma.
How Seraphina is different from nearly all the young adult novels out there, especially of the fantasy/paranormal variety:1.
There's no info-dumping going on here; the world is well-built and very well-executed.
The plot and story is complex enough for adults to appreciate, but narrated in such a lively and entertaining voice that even 11+ year-olds should be able to grasp the content and, best of all, identify with Seraphina.
You loathe love triangles, especially poorly-executed ones.3.
That aside, Hartman has created an unforgettably beautiful world in Seraphina, one I can't wait to visit again.
And as any two societies who live side by side, the humans and the dragons collide, damage, and change one another irrevocably.
Seraphina is the product of that change: a human/dragon hybrid born from a dragon mother who found that she could love passionately and couldn’t go back.
It's as if, by acting as outsiders, we can see everything more clearly.That’s what I felt when I read this book.
And just like in our own society, there are those who view any kind of novelty or change as a threat to their very existence.
Her new album is (like her others) highly experimental.
Here's what I said:My relationship with high fantasy — fantasy set in another world — has always been tumultuous.
Everything I said about historical fiction also applies here.
Which is why, despite multiple recommendations, I let this debut novel about a half-dragon, half-human girl sit unread on my desk for five months.
This city of austere dragons and emotional humans felt complete, as if I could turn down any number of alleys and never find the seams showing.
Teens and adults alike will love to creep down the magical streets of Seraphina's city.
This is a weird rating because I can't really find anything in particular I didn't like about this story, yet it was hard for me to really get into.
like it's a wonderfully creative fantasy world full of everything I'd normally love, but also took serious effort to keep reading.
Things I loved:- dragons that can take human form- bagpipes- castles- princes yay- knights- music theory- Orma's character (he kind of reminded me of Spock or a Jedi)I think I might have liked this one a lot more when I was younger!
Because it IS well written and a good YA fantasy story...
Seraphina is the heart of this book, but its in the supporting cast that the book finds its soul.
Almost like real life.And Uncle Orma.
Pay attention, you YA writers, this is how it's done!The only thing that drove me nuts about this book was a little conceit that was so peculiarly Rachel, I couldn't help but forgive her for it.
It felt like Rachel was trying so hard to make sure the connection between her characters was as much intellectual as emotional, that she went a bit overboard with it all.
They are highly intelligent and are rather similar to “Vulcan” species from “Star Trek”, especially when it comes to their way of thinking, their social interactions or their internal emotional conflicts.
I think this book actually succeeds in portraying strong female characters, something that many authors try to achieve but fail spectacularly.The romance was perfect for me.
The story did not focus on him at the beginning, and he was not described in details, making it obvious that he is indeed The One.The relationship develops as the characters are forced to interact, forced since Seraphina tries to socialize as little as possible.
It was so easy to get lost in this world of humans, dragons and those in-between – I still haven’t found my way back.
She took the time to build this world, which resulted in somewhat slower pacing, but I didn’t mind in the least.
Phina has the best of both worlds: quick logical thinking and problem solving typical of dragons tempered with inherently human warmth and loyalty.
Over time, Seraphina falls deeply in love with Prince Lucian Kiggs, queen’s bastard grandson and fiancé of Princess Glisselda, heir to the throne.
“We were all monsters and bastards, and we were all beautiful.”  This book deserves all the stars. I loved it. Loved it. Beautiful message, sophisticated plotting, sweet and believable romance, awesome main character who managed to be both ordinary and believable while also being the "brave hero". Read in one 7 hour sitting.So what was so wonderful about this book? “The world inside myself is vaster and richer than this paltry plane, peopled with mere galaxies and gods.”  Seraphina addresses se
In fact, self hatred and an obsessive fear of social rejection is pretty much how you know you are reading another bloody YA book.
The plot question isn't "will she get validation thru the hot love interest, finally proving how hot and cool she is".
If one believes there is truth in art – and I do – then it’s troubling how similar the skill of performing is to lying.
The book managed to be both a familiar story and a surprisingly deep exploration of self- understanding.
Again this book surprises by managing to pack an emotional punch while also knowing what it is- a light hearted fantasy about dragons.
For a dragon book (SO OVERDONE AMIRIGHT?) this was so lovely and charming. A real fairy tale written now. I loved the characters and the world building, the story was touching and the main character relatable and believable. The last half was a BIT more draggy, but still,really lovely, YA appropriate, reminded me of Graceling actually.
I only wish I could give it more than five stars. Gorgeous storytelling, characterization, and masterful world-building. Plus, really cool and unique dragon lore! What's not to love?
In the end, many fantasy novels don't sustain that balance of normalcy and humanity interwoven with the threads of fantasy...but Seraphina remarkably did.Seraphina is a tale of dragons and intrigues, music and emotions, humanity and prejudices.
Seraphina Dombegh copes with this world and keeps to her music even as she tries her best not to be noticed, for the dragons aren't the only ones with secrets to keep...In the vein of novels from Gail Carson Levine, Megan Whalen Turner, and Tamora Pierce, the kind of fantasy represented here sings of both our world and another world quite different from our own.
It's not the kind of fantasy where you feel like a mere observer but rather an unseen companion to all the goings-on within Goredd.
Quotes have been pulled from an ARC and may be subject to change.Seraphina is a half human, half dragon sixteen year old who lived in Goreddia.
(I had an affinity to Fruit Bat!) As for the wonderful secondary characters I liked Glisselda immensely.
It’s been trending for a long time and Seraphina’s dragons are the ferocious and vicious ones nightmares are made of.
And I for one can’t wait until book two comes out so I can join her on her adventure.Beautifully written, Seraphina will whisk you away to a world where dragons are as ferocious as anyone thought they could be.
Soy incapaz de pasar de la página 100. Se me estaba haciendo muy muy pesado y he decidido dejarlo.
Review contains the slightest of slight spoilers... “Scattered and peculiar- some of us were sceptical and bitter- we were a people. And I was at the hub of this enormous wheel. I could bring us together. In a way, I already had.” Initial Final Page Thoughts.I liked it better than I thought I would, which says a lot for a fantasy-phobe like me. High Points.Seraphina. The world- It was beautifully constructed. Dragons. ORMA. Courts. Concerts. Parades. Emotions. Scales. Dreams. “Tending the garden
I loved Seraphina, she’s my kind of heroine.
Love Interest.My dislike for poor Lucian Kiggs is all my own fault.Because I’m silly and I kept calling him Lucian Griggs as if he was some kind of cousin that Jonah just never talked about.
Also, quick mention because I’m tiptoeing around spoilers as I would a dragon’s lair, I loved every conversation between Seraphina and Orma.
Recommended For.People who like epic fantasy books.
People who like strong heroines.
I can count on one hand the number of fantasy books I've enjoyed, but after reading Kat Kennedy's glowing review of Seraphina, I was intrigued by the promise of smart heroines, dragons, and jazz hands.
It's populated by odd characters that Seraphina names Fruit Bat, Pelican Man, etc.I gave myself 100 pages to decide whether to keep reading this book or not.
Princess Glisselda, the fiancee of Prince Lucian, is also one of the most likable characters in the book.
I don't mean to keep using the word "intelligent" but Rachel Hartman writes characters that actually use their brains.
Ποιος δολοφόνησε τον βασιλιά Ρούφους; Ποιοι προσπαθούν να σπάσουν την ανακωχή ανάμεσα στους δράκους και τους ανθρώπους μετά από 40 χρόνια ειρήνης;.
Ποιος ο ρόλος του χαμένου επί 16 συνεχή χρόνια δράκου Ίμλαν; Δεν είναι όμως όλα αυτά που κάνουν το βιβλίο για εμένα τόσο ιδιαίτερο.
Και τελικά νομίζω ότι αυτό είναι αυτό το βιβλίο, μια συμφωνία που σε καλεί να λικνιστείς στους ρυθμούς της.
Νομίζω ότι την αγάπησα αυτή την ηρωίδα.«Αν μπορούσα να κρατήσω μια και μοναδική στιγμή για πάντα, αυτή θα ήταν η συγκεκριμένη στιγμή.Έγινα αέρας, γέμισα αστέρια.
Ήμουν τα κενά ανάμεσα στους οβελίσκους της μητρόπολης, η μοναχική ανάσα των καμινάδων, μια ψιθυριστή προσευχή στον χειμωνιάτικο άνεμο.
Initially: And then: Alright, let's just get this out of the way:  Seraphina  is one of my favorite books I've read this year. Hands down, without a doubt, straight-up adored it. And I'd say it's my single most-pushed book this year; I've been pushing it on everyone. Obnoxiously. And I'm going to try to tell you why, and I'll do my best to avoid spoilers, but if you take nothing else from this review, understand that I want you to pick this up.  Find out why HERE.
DNFI cannot get into this book for the life of me. I hate the writing and it’s so weird that I can’t even understand what’s happening :/
Seraphina, the heroine of the story, undergoes a huge amount of character development in learning to love herself.
Orma and the dragon king learn to cope with human emotions without shutting them off.
Prince Lucian Kiggs comes to understand that dragons aren't inherently evil, just different (and accepts his own past in the process).Rachel Hartman gave all her characters, in the foreground and background, journeys with valuable lessons the reader can take away after finishing.I didn't give the audiobook my full attention 100% of the time so I might have missed some aspects of the story, unfortunately.I'm reading Shadow Scale next month.
