https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2078937.Death_of_a_Citizen
To put Matt Helm into perspective, the grittiest Bond moment you can think of in a film happens several times between the covers of a Donald Hamilton book.
The noted critic Anthony Boucher wrote: "Donald Hamilton has brought to the spy novel the authentic hard realism of Dashiell Hammett; and his stories are as compelling, and probably as close to the sordid truth of espionage, as any now being told."This is the first book in the series and it finds Matt Helm living in Santa Fe, New Mexico, also a place that Donald Hamilton lived for many years.
Reviewed 2010, updated 2018.Matt Helm, paragon of virtue, epitome of political correctness, man of the people....oh wait, that's another guy.I guarantee some if they read this book today will be offended.
I had a bad beginning with these books.
I read books that ended up made into TV series and movies and a few books where TV shows or movies came first (the Man From U.N.C.L.E., I Spy, etc.).
Helm's world is a lot more rough and gory than Bonds.
You know..really, they're good reads.
By 1960, he had established himself as a husband, father and writer, living in Santa Fe, New Mexico.One night Helm and his wife go to a cocktail party in Santa Fe, and Matt is stunned to see there a woman named Tina, who had also been an agent during the war and who, for a brief period following one of their assignments, had been Matt’s lover.
Even before Tina appears in his doorway to make the point clear, he knows he has a choice: cooperate with her on whatever the assignment might be or take the fall for a murder he did not commit.What follows is an entertaining story that unfolds as Helm attempts to extricate himself from this trap.
I am so excited to see this series being re-issued FINALLY.
Hamilton wrote a final book before he died, but it had been so long since his previous book that they wouldn't publish it.
He's gone, but his son has it & we may finally get to see it in a few years, IF the series sells well.
The third book, Matt Helm - The Removers is due out in August.
Helm is a reliable narrator, although he's not quite as ruthless as he'd like us to think he is, although he can be surprisingly so at times & is in this book.
The particular strand the Matt Helm series well represents is one that developed (and mainly flourished) in the 1950s and 60s; its basic characteristics are a vision of international affairs that reduces to an "Us = good; Them = bad" mentality, and an intense glorification of the cynical, amoral, "the end justifies the means" mentality.
(Uh, actually, Matt, most of us can help it!) There's a strong degree of influence here from the noir tradition of portraying women as either evil femme fatales or soft, helpless easily-victimized types who can be put on a pedestal but aren't suited for the real world (though to his credit, Hamilton actually does suggest, in a couple of his secondary characters, that a woman can be tough without being a villainess --I'd actually have liked to see them more developed).
And what a delightful flashback it was!Actually, it's a great story and introduction to a very interesting character; the fun part comes from signs of the times, like female characters who wear veiled hats and long gloves to dinner parties and whose "girdles" could be felt through their clothing by anyone who ventured to pat one on the derriere.
The books are short & Stefan Rudnicki's voice works perfectly for this first person narrative.
Glad the latter didn't hang around, although I never minded the former.
Now it's an audio book read by Stefan Rudnicki.
I like his narration & love the books, so I'm supporting this by buying all that are published so far - the first 7, I believe.
Blackstone Audio has a consumer site for buying the downloadable audio book as mp3's athttp://downpour.comIt's easy to use & the files come down as a single zip.
As always, I love Helm's practicality.
The ruthless common sense displayed by Helm is such a nice change of pace from most of the current heroes or even many of the old ones.
He'll shoot a man in the back & wonder why anyone considers the direction he was facing to be of concern.
Very well done.See these pages for more of Hamilton's work, about him, & the latest releases.http://www.matthelmbooks.com/intro.htmlhttp://www.benish-industries.com/hami...http://goodreadergonebad.net/donaldha...Several books (4?) in the series were horribly done in the movies, Helm played by Dean Martin.
Like Fleming's Bond series, the books bear little to no relationship to most of the movies save the title & some character names.
If James Bond was played by Mike Hammer and lived in the southwest United States, his stories might have been something like this. Expect the usual misogyny and racism we expect from tough guys stories of the late Eisenhower era. There's plenty of action and the plot occasionally makes sense but it drags quite a bit for a 140 page book.
Really enjoyed this ...
What does it take for a happily married man, making a comfortable living in a line of work he enjoys to go back to the grim, blood, murder and lust he once knew - 15 years before, half a world away, during a brutal, death-thirsty war?
Matt Helm is that man, he is that citizen.
How does the citizen die a death and the spy rise from the ashes of his death?
After reading this I get it!
Nothing like the literary Bond, and nothing like the camped up Dean Martin movies...
Fast paced, first person action!4.5/5

I can't say I cared for this book too much.
Even if I didn't know this was first in a long series, I would have guessed it was - not a whole lot happened but Matt Helm, after being out of the assassin business for years, gets pulled back in.
I didn't care much for Helm.
One night, he and his wife are at a dinner party when he sees a woman who also used to be a spy/assassin.
I guess I was expecting someone a bit smoother, someone with intelligence and self-control (he was a spy and assassin after all).
It is the beginning of one of the best espionage series out there and it is easy to see how more recent spy novels are in some sense derivative of the Helm books.Helm's books take place in a world where men are men and women are women.
Sucked back into the world of espionage that he didn't know still existed, Helm is called upon to utilize his skills and training to survive attacks by the enemies.This is well-written and compelling.
I'd seen the old 1960s Matt Helm films starring Dean Martin, and thought I was in for some campy fun.
Unlike those films, this novel - first in the series - is dead serious.It's a gritty spy-versus-spy story set during the Cold War, full of violence, suspense and deceit.
It also gives the background story for Mattt Helm - how he became a spy in WWII, and his life since then.
From certain signals, Matt knows it's not coincidence that brought her back in his path.Keep in mind this book was written in 1960.
The series has a heavy continuity element to it, but I never was able to read any of them in order.
Helm is a hardboiled spy who is lured back into service by an old partner/lover.
His old boss, Mac, is still around from the WWII days as well, and is a master at head games as ever.
Helm is a chauvinistic bastard, cold-blooded, and ruthless, which is part of the charm of this series.
The earliest novels are generally agreed to be the better ones, but I haven't read one yet that I didn't enjoy.
It's nice to see them available again.
Lots of backstory in this the first of the Matt Helm series. Looking forward to reading the next book.
I didn't read these novels years ago but remember the Dean Martin movies featuring pretty girls and booze. They were fun but didn't match up to the Bond movies. Death of a Citizen matched up well to the early Bond novels. Both the main characters were very different from the film versions.
Back in the days of the 1960s, everyone seemed to be reading Donald Hamilton’s Matt Helm books...except me.
I made the mistake of first seeing a Matt Helm movie starring Dean Martin.
It was such a stinker (I don’t remember the title) that I reasoned, “Bad movies come from bad books.” Wrong.
Bad movies don’t even need a book.
Matt Helm is – or was – an assassin working for some un-named branch of our government during WW II.
When at a local cocktail party with his wife, he sees a woman he knew from the old days.
DEATH OF A CITIZEN took a while to get going (about a third of the book) as author Donald Hamilton established Helm as a writer and family man with a darkly brooding sense of violence bubbling beneath the surface.
Luckily, all it took was a subtle signal from the deadly Tina to turn that around and merge past and present into what is a surprisingly decent action thriller.I wanted to love this book (I haven’t seen the adaptations fortunately) having been a fan of pulps from some time, this reprint of the first Matt Helm book original published in 1960 promised much yet felt slightly off centre to me.
I love these "old" Matt Helm stories.
I am set for awhile.The book truly reflects the world at the time it was written, in this case about 1960 or so.
Good, bad, or indifferent, the story takes place at that point in time.
The story incorporates the values of the early 60's.Matt is a no-nonsense type of spy.
No such luck Matt.
Helm is tough, cool, and can handle himself in a fight.
This is my 2nd Matt Helm book I have read (the other being The Silencers)and enjoyed.
I plan to read the entire series in order now, from book #2 onward.
Also, he uses cars and guns as a metaphor for manhood in a way that might be corny to some readers, but I got a kick out of it:"I dropped into low gear for the last steep grade to the mine.
It always gives me a kick to throw her into that housemoving gear and feel her buckle down and go to work, using everything that's under the hood, while the big mud-and-snow tires dig for traction...Maybe that was my trouble, I reflected.
Just picked this up, looking for something light and fun, knowing nothing about the character or the film and TV versions that apparently have no resemblance to the original. I found it a thoroughly enjoyable adventure with a light plot, fun characters, and a few good twists -- not as heavy or deep as a Ludlum or Clancy, but more tightly written and better-paced than a James Bond novel. Just what I expected. Twenty-seven books in this series? I'm game to consume a few more.
Well-told, and faithful to the times (50s-60s), but I have a hard time adapting to some of the technological accuracy (needing to use public telephone booths, for instance) in an espionage story.The phraseology is also authentic to the times, and that is kinda cute.The audio book version of this is well-narrated, and was engaging. I just don't think I can overcome my anachronistic desires to read the rest of the series though.
FirstFirst real Matt Helm book I've ever read ... I did see the movies Dean Martin made as the character ... Must say in this book Matt Helm is all business and any light hearted hijinks are not to be found ... excellent adventure and I'm ready for the next one ...
I've been collecting the Matt Helm series for years and I've only just now started to read them. Like some folks I was introduced to Matt Helm via the Dean Martin movie series, which I got in its entirety on VHS for Christmas one year (one of the great scores of my movie-binging youth). When I heard about the books I got really excited and started buying them up anytime I found them at a used bookstore. I've done a lot of time collecting series without reading them and then getting burned when
I've been collecting the Matt Helm series for years and I've only just now started to read them.
Like some folks I was introduced to Matt Helm via the Dean Martin movie series, which I got in its entirety on VHS for Christmas one year (one of the great scores of my movie-binging youth).
Hamilton's trick is that he keeps things moving with Helm's flashbacks to working in the dirty-tricks department in WW2 and his former association with the long lost female agent, Tina.
In the films, you may be aware, Dean Martin's Matt Helm is a secret agent and photographer with a thing for girls and booze.
It's 1960 and a photographer and family man sees someone at a party who he'd met during WWII -- When he was a allied spy with a good knowledge of guns. She brings a message from his old boss that he's needed once again as an assassin. Solid Genre choice.
7/10240 pages
This is not the hard-drinking Dean Martin movies.Matt Helm left Military Intelligence at the end of World War II. He got married and settled down to a career in writing... mainly westerns (think Rollo Martins of the Third Man). He is drawn back into the game when a former operative and lover appears at a dinner party. Is this femme fatale part of the problem or part of the solution?
It is recommended if you want to get an idea as to the genre's development at the start of The Cold War, as I do, then again I recommend this book.Do not go into this expecting the Dean Martin version of Matt Helm (arguably the worse spy comedy movies ever made).
I like Greg Rucka's work, but his Tara Chace, for as thick as those tomes are, Rucka fails to deliver the depth of characterization that he manages for his other novel series (Atticus Kodiak).Sticking with the starts of 1960s Cold War spy books Casino Royale is near the top of the TBR pile.
This is the first book in Donald Hamilton's secret agent series about American assassin Matt Helm.
"Death of a Citizen" introduces Helm as a retired spy living in Santa Fe, NM, a married man and father, who makes his living writing old-west stories with a sideline in photography.
I enjoyed the hard-boiled style of the novel and found the literary Helm preferable to the screen version.
There is some tough violence but nothing that I found gratuitous and fast pace worked well for this kind of story.
It's a solid start to the long running series and is a worthy American reply to Ian Fleming's James Bond books.
