https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40882262-the-jewel
DNF at 95%, because I just don't give a fuck.
My frail resolve wavers.
I think about what sort of person I want to be.
I owe Lucien my life, and I will be loyal to him until the end.
But Ash has nothing to do with that.
Ash is separate, a part of my life that is just mine.
There are things that are bigger than us, it’s true.
Saving the surrogates.
Destroying the royalty.
Is loving Ash worth the risk?
You get one fucking guess.
What do you think she chooses?This book is called The Jewel.
It is a misnomer, because had the title been accurate to the contents of the book, it would have been called The Big, Stinking Pile of Shit.This book is similar to Margaret Atwood's The Handmaid's Tale if it had been written for people who loved pretty dresses, Mary Sues, and hates being offended.
The difference is that every ounce of flavor, every bit of grittiness, every iota of realism, every implication of the dark side of surrogacy and sexual abuse has been bleached the fuck out of this so-called dystopia.What's left is a flavorless, bland, utterly insipid "dystopian" version of every Mary Sue-insta-love you can ever imagine.The Summary: 
Either the world's running out of ideas and isgrasping at straws, or the world's trends have moved on ahead of me, 'cause I do not get it and I feel like an old woman now.In any case, I read this book with a very open mind.
Unfortunately, we see the story unfold in the MC's eyes who is oh-so special and frankly, quite boring to boot, so while the writing may have had potential, it left a lot to be desired.Meet Violet, a determined, beautiful girl who has...
There's a lot of build-up but no payoff--it's not so much a cliffhanger as it is an abrupt stop in what feels like the beginning of the climax.That being said, if I had it in front of me, I might still read the next book in the series just to see what happens.
It really reminded me of Wither and The Selection (books that I also felt were just okay, not necessarily for me) so if you liked those, you might like this!
However, I did like both Wither and The Selection more than this one.Bottom line: Interesting and engaging, but with flimsy worldbuilding and legit insta-love this book was just okay.
Another example of wasted potential, The Jewel could have been the next big thing for many other readers--if not for that shitty, awful romance. That's pretty bad, considering I almost NEVER say something is awful--I call a lot of things shitty, but awful? That is a hundred times worse than shitty in the Language of Aimee.Oh, and noticed how I said "many other readers"? Yes, because even without said shitty, awful romance, this book is just not for me. It was a bit similar to The Hunger Games (
Another example of wasted potential, The Jewel could have been the next big thing for many other readers--if not for that shitty, awful romance.
Yes, because even without said shitty, awful romance, this book is just not for me.
When Violet leaves Ash's room, she thinks of kissing him.
A few hours after they first met, when they meet again, Violet says, "My whole body feels like it's blushing." (54.3% in the eARC4.
I also felt like the fantasy aspect of the novel was just forced into it--it didn't really seem to fit with the mood of the story, but maybe that's just me.One last thing: STEREOTYPING.
BRILLIANT BOOK!!
because it was cheap,the reviews i read were bad,but i thought 'oh well,lets give it a try'.
and OMG THIS BOOKS IS SOOOOO GOODDDDD!!!!!
(not that i didn't like Selection.BUT) This books is deep and it touches some really serious issues like slavery.
Violet is a strong character and i love her for it.
All the characters are well based.
Even the Duchess became a character i loved to hate and hated to love.
The ending was so heartbreaking and WHAT?
OMG THAT ENDING!!
I can't wait to read the next book.
A unique book.
9/30/17 - ON SALE for $1.99: http://amzn.to/2gRVBRYReviewed by: Rabid Reads3.5 starsViolet Lasting is a Surrogate. She lives in a world where blue bloods can no longer produce viable offspring. BUT. Before they begin to die out, a doctor discovers a genetic quirk that (fortuitously) exists most frequently in the lowest caste of their society . . . a quirk that allows the girls who have it to carry a royal child to term . . . And so it is mandatory--on pain of death--for every girl to be tested f
Being a Surrogate also means being able to manipulate the three Auguries: color, shape, and growth.
Same goes for the shape and growth Auguries, but the interesting thing here is that the royals who purchase their Surrogates at the Auction intend for the girls to use their gifts specifically on their child.In utero.Kind of cool.
The flashback to the girl getting her head chopped off for trying to escape becoming a Surrogate gave me goosebumps too:
So. Unless it’s an alien or some type of Fae creature, if it has violet eyes, I’m going to roll mine.3.
As a surrogate, raised to bear a child for whatever member of the royal Jewel section of society purchases her in an auction, Violet has been trained for years to be submissive and poised and perfectly fine with being in the background.
There are lies and manipulations, and somehow, very well-twisted into the middle of it all, is forbidden love.Violet soon discovers that she can never be who she truly wants to be.
I fell in love with it, and by the time I finished (warning: there's a cliffhanger!), it was 1am and I was dying for book 2.THE JEWEL is definitely not a copy of any other story---it stands out on its own, and is sure to be a bestseller.
Siendo éste un libro del género distopico quería saber como llegaron a la fundación del imperio, qué papal jugó cada casa, como se hizo la repartición de los títulos, como empezaron el programa de Sustitutas, porqué justamente esos poderes y demás, pero no obtuve nada de eso.Realmente quería que la historia se desarrollara un poco diferente, porque la idea era bastante buena pero desde la segunda mitad las cosas fueron a pique.Para mi Ash no tenía relevancia en lo absoluto.
DNF @ pg 65Will come back to this sometime in the future. On hold for now. BR with my friend IRL. I really want this to be good.
Die Rezension (ab 01.10.15) : https://youtu.be/KLKWBaL6VNc
I really enjoyed this book! I loved the idea of it and can not wait for the next one!
When I saw this I couldn't help but think The Selection.But with a better cover. & a better blurb. &, I hope, a better everything else. Damn, oh, well. My curiosity has brought the better out of me yet again.
(Source: I received a digital copy of this book for free on a read-to-review basis. Thanks to HarperCollins and Edelweiss.) “Sometimes, I wish I hadn’t been born a surrogate.” This was an enjoyable dystopian, with girls with special powers being sold as surrogates.I felt quite sorry for Violet in this story, her whole life had been changed by one blood test, and she was forced to carry someone else’s baby after being sold at an auction. I did think that she made some very dubious decisions at ti
This was an enjoyable dystopian, with girls with special powers being sold as surrogates.I felt quite sorry for Violet in this story, her whole life had been changed by one blood test, and she was forced to carry someone else’s baby after being sold at an auction.
I did think the world building was pretty good, even if it did remind me of other books, although I wondered why the surrogates didn’t use the Auguries more.
Yay!7 out of 10How it ends - (view spoiler)[ This is a giant spoiler, so don’t read unless you’ve already read this book!
Die erste Hälfte war echt cool, aber danach fand ich's nur so meeeh. Vor allem die Liebesgeschichte hat mich total genervt.
Rich people, no.But the nobility have found that some of the poor girls have these abilities that can allow them to manipulate a fetus in their wombs.
So, they test all of the poor girls as soon as they get their period, and if they have this ability then they whisk them off to be raised in solitude.
The book goes on about how she is used and abused, her concern for her friend, what is expected of the surrogates, how they are treated as less than human....and so on.Plod, plod, plod.Of course, her abilities are special.
BRACE FOR FEELS.This book is the kind of stressful/addictive/engaging story that is almost dangerous in its demand to be read. It will keep you up well past your bedtime with all the INTENSITY and PAIN and TENSION and just when you think you're nearing the end and maybe your heart will get a break...NOPE.That ending. THAT ENDING. OH IT HURTS.
Así mismo, con el paso de los años se han dado cuenta de que algunas mujeres del Pantano, el círculo más pobre, desarrollan unos poderes especiales, los Augurios, y son perfectas para devolver la grandeza a la realeza.
Como una de estas mujeres especiales, Violet siempre ha sido criada y entrenada para pensar que el ser la Sustituta de una de las mujeres de la Joya es un gran honor, pero poco a poco se empezará a dar cuenta de lo oscuro que es el mundo de las intrigas reales.
I think on some level I should probably have disliked this book, but I ended up enjoying it quite a bit.
One thing you might want to consider is that this book does have a terrible cliffhanger.
I know I'll end up reading book two just for that alone.
I only hope that book two either expounds on the romance or gets rid of it completely.I can't compare this to The Selection because I haven't read it, so if you are looking for me to do that, I'm not the best person to ask.
Violet is a surrogate, born with unique gifts to shape the world around her, yet bought and sold to the highest bidder in a world where royalty rules all.
Poor yet beautiful girl with unique gifts brought into a different world?
My other main issue was Ash. The love interest.
When Violet starts fawning over him after meeting him for all of ten minutes, I knew this story wasn't going to end the way I wanted it too.
It felt like an easy cop out to explain any passage of time.
They weren't explained well, or integrated well into the story, and I often felt confused when Violet uses any of them.
If you've found this review, perhaps you are wondering why I appear so irked by this book.
Giving it one star, and all.Well, it's because MARGARET ATWOOD already wrote this book.
Also, the girl on the cover, yeah, she is way too well-dressed to be a slave.Some books do not need a dumbed-down romance version with a bunch of silly tropes.
Why is there a need to publish a glossy new version with girls in pretty dresses?I have nothing against YA.
It will make you smarter.Thank you.*I just realized that they have made this a trilogy.
Why is this a trilogy?
I usually try to find the good in each book that I read.
They are given a lot number and dressed up in spectacular gowns and costumes and sold to the highest bidder.
3)The women are treated like pets by their "owners." They are led about on a leash, told what to eat, what to do, and how to behave.
Surrogates are told that once they produce a child, they will go on and retire in another part of this world.
Read at your own risk.Thank you to Edelweiss and HarperTeen for a review copy of this book.
Goddamn. That was a clusterfuck if ever I saw one. Review to come.
I was almost finished by no time but then figured that there was no longer any point so I DNFed it after Ash and Violet just started overly-infuriatingly cheesy.
His mouth curves into a full smile and I feel my lungs contract, making it very difficult to breathe.And then just moments later when Violet is alone, staring at her beauteous self in the mirrorI've never thought much about kissing, but the idea of Ash's lips against mine--I giggle.Oh and then later at that night intense staring ensuesI look up and meet a pair of bray-green eyes, no longer soft but blazing.
I was really captivated by the characters, the world, and the plot. However, the insta-love just did not work for me!
I picked up The Jewels salivating, thinking this book could be a better and finer version of The Selection.
I would have probably like it if the protagonist and the guy interacted more and have build an actual relationship first before professing their eternal love and loyalty to each other.
And lastly the most difficult thing for me about The Jewel, is there isn't any solid foundation of the world building.
It's not believable and it's so hard to connect with that.Over all THE JEWEL is sloppy writing, lackluster "shallow" characters, a complete nonsensical.
Nose Graze — Book reviews & blogging tips The Jewel  was an awesome book! ...until the romance. But more on that later. ;)I really loved the plot in The Jewel. I think it's definitely similar in vibe to The Selection (which it's being compared to). However, my feelings about it are the total opposite. In The Selection, I adored the romance but didn't care much about the rest of the plot. In The Jewel, I adore the plot but hate the romance. The Jewel has a lot of political/royal scandal.. and
In The Jewel, I adore the plot but hate the romance.
I love that the book got me so riled up.My only gripe with the plot side of things was I didn't fully understand why the surrogates existed.
I went from being addicted to The Jewel to kind of making a "wtf" face at it while reading.I was pretty devastated to have my love for this book plummet so hard, because up until that point, I was ADDICTED.
I loved it so much, then the romance just sucked!
WHY DID YOU DO THIS TO ME?!?!But the book is still worth reading, even if just for the cool plot and crazy political scandals.
OMG!! Mit dem Ende hätte ich echt nicht gerechnet! Muss mir unbedingt den zweiten Band kaufen! Total verdiente 5/5 ⭐! Spannend von vorne bis hinten, bin sehr begeistert!
There are perks to being a surrogate. We get to dress how we want, eat what we want, sleep late on the weekends. We get an education. A good education. We get free food and water, we always have electricity, and we never have to work. We never have to know poverty -- and the caretakers tell us we'll have more once we start living in the Jewel.Except freedom. They never seem to mention that. For a long while, this was two stars for me. It was good, but not exceptional. It was an innovative idea,
until Violet is bought at the Auction and reaches the Jewel, as the new surrogate for the Duchess of the Lake.But let's start from the beginning.Violet Lasting lives in Southgate.
When she became a woman, her blood test showed abnormalities, magical abilities, which meant she was to become a surrogate for the royal families.
It felt very much like a teenage girl's wet dream, and it did nothing for me, but it helped the plot move along and if this was Ewing's intention, then good for her because it worked.And am I the only one who wants Violet to end up with Garnet, not Ash?
In the Jewel, the center of wealth and power, she was then constrained to a life of sweetened pain, temporal wealth, and forbidden love.The structure of Violet's problematic society was not new to me.
With that in mind, I was quite jaded while reading about Violet's dystopian world.If I were to isolate Violet from her unique and fantastical powers as a surrogate, I would not like her as a character.
The Jewel, like most dystopian novels, advocated the value of democracy.
Overall, The Jewel was significantly predictable, but I somehow managed to like it because of its refreshing approach to gender equality.
To my surprise, it was actually far better than I was expecting!Things I Liked:- Female friendship!
There was genuine, real friendship between Violet and her best friend Raven, as well as some other girls in the novel.
She was a strong female character, and she wasn't afraid to acknowledge her beauty - something which I also found refreshing, as a lot of YA heroines think of themselves as plain until some boy comes along and then suddenly she realises she's pretty, but this wasn't the case with Violet at all.
just go for it!-edit 22/06/2018: i don't have anything profound to add i'm just laughing at how 4 years ago i "wasn't a review person" and now i review like everything djsjdjsdksd character development
