https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11561469-reason-to-breathe
In this MC's opinion it was a -good- thing that a 6 yr old and a 4 yr old were living with a woman that liked to beat the shit out of kids.
The book becomes about Emma and Evan and their "relationship" I have never read a MC that lied to themselves or other people more and it annoyed the shit out of me.
Make a decision (like me deciding to read the second book).
First off...this should be 4.5 stars!I started reading this book and literally could not put it down - I HAD to know how it ended, so I was up until 4am devouring every moment.
Say no more!I am eagerly awaiting the sequel and know it will be another allnighter when it is available.Rebecca if you're reading this......hurry and finish that book!!!
Drew!You really need to read this book!
This book was way too sad and messed up! Mel 🖤🐾🐺
Seven Disney movies later…Well.I’m slightly more of an alcoholic today than I was two days ago. Well played, Rebecca Donovan… well played.   WHAT I LOVED ABOUT THIS BOOK:   -♥- The story -♥-So beautiful and very subtly powerful, “Reason to Breathe” is about Emma, a high school girl with a home life that would make Vernon and Petunia Dursley (Harry Potter’s aunt and uncle) seem warm and fuzzy. This isn’t the kind of story that gives you butterflies, guys… this is a story that’s going to make your
He’s the boy who Emma didn’t want to fall in love with… but she did anyway.
Their story begins when he contradicts her in the classroom, and for some reason, this gets Emma SO angry.
And no one gets under her skin.And slowly but surely, as the story evolves… we see these two characters begin to fall in love with each other.
It doesn’t matter how hard Emma pushes Evan away-- because she’s so afraid he’s going to figure out her secrets--Evan always comes back.
However… Evan doesn’t realize that the more Emma falls in love with him… --the more it costs her in the end.--
Emma was being abused, and from there, there wasn't much other direction.The relationship between Evan and Emma is cute and is probably the only reason I stuck with the story, but that was pretty much all the story had going for it.
I think the rave about this story is covers the topic of abuse, which is a touchy, emotional, and relatively still unexplored theme.
But the execution of it could have been so much better and I just feel like the story itself was hyped up merely because of the topic it addresses rather than the actual quality of the writing and the story itself.My other problem with the story is that a lot of it just didn't make sense.
Everyone kept telling me how amazing they were and I had a feeling I'd love them but I also knew about the brutal cliffhangers so I decided to tough it out and wait 'til I could read all three books back-to-back.
Emma's main goal was just to keep her head down, stay invisible, and get good marks in school while she counted down the days 'til she could escape to college - away from the hurt, abuse and brutality.
"I knew in that moment, I would never love anyone in my life the way I loved Evan Mathews."   I really can't tell you how much I loved Evan.
Oh!My!God....I HATE, HATE, HATE, HATE, HATE that bitch Carol.I swear I felt like killing her throughout the novel.And George...Lord I have rarely seen such a weak,lily-livered person.A swift kick would have done the job.This is what I really want to say to Em's so called MOM---You are a grade-A b**chAnd EVAN (though he did some really stupid things) was just perfect for Emily.I loved Sara,that is how best friends are supposed to be.I also admired Emily's spirit of survival.
The premise itself I had no problem with – a girl struggling with abuse and falling in love – but everyone was so one-dimensional!The main character (I don’t even remember her name, she was that uninteresting) was forced to live with her aunt and uncle because her dad had died and her mom was unable to care for her.
Oh, and apparently all the guys love her for some reasons unexplained to me.The best friend likes boys and dressing up the main character in pink sweaters, and gets marginally upset about the abuse once in a while.
I was so emotionally absorbed in this story; I barely had enough time to catch my breath when it just abruptly ended.
I love stories that evoke all your feelings.
I loved feeling like that and when it abruptly ended, I didn’t care that it didn’t end happy, I just cared that I felt so much.
Everything that happened to you in this story, I felt it.
You deserved having an awesome best friend in Sara, and you definitely deserve your happiness with the very sweet, loving, and extremely persistent, Evan.
The story was achingly good and extremely well written.
If Emma had lived with her aunt/the abuse her whole life, I could understand that maybe her spirit would be so beaten down that she'd think it was acceptable, but she hasn't.Also, as many reviewers have noted, her rich, daughter-of-a-judge best friend never tells her parents?
I try to think about my best friend revealing this to me as a junior in high school and what I would do...and I can't imagine staying quiet.I couldn't get past that those things, and I don't like to read sad books just for the sake of being sad, so I had to put it down.
"No one tried to get involved with me" was a total exaggeration in this book's synopsis, considering Emma had a best friend who was always looking out for her.
If this book was meant to give a real-life abusee hope of getting out of an abusive relationship, the book missed that thoroughly, abuse being tackled poorly and shittily by the author.Emma was also...too damn unlikeable to even feel sorry for or pledge allegiance to!
Was it that the abuse had turned her into an empty shell of a person, so much so that I couldn't warm to her no matter how hard I tried?
I AM   This book was emotionally draining me. There was moments I wanted to throw my Kindle away, smiled, cried and I am lost for words. Emma Thomas is a girl who is broken and struggling from evil heartless aunt, she wants to invisible and her only mate is Sara. She tops in her studies and sports.  Evan Matthews comes along and she sees her thru! I love him so much and he is so close to my heart! He is so caring and adorable. I was so touched by his actions ;)  Finally, when he kissed her, I wa
This book was emotionally draining me.
Emma Thomas is a girl who is broken and struggling from evil heartless aunt, she wants to invisible and her only mate is Sara.
Evan Matthews comes along and she sees her thru!
Us""Are you having a hard time liking me?""Emma, you and I are dating, remember?""I love that picture.
I think it's because I love the girl in that picture" 
I so wanted to claw her heartless aunt..........I am broken.
This book ends in cliffhanger...
so I am going bonkers *gladly book two is out*
My Evan
I found myself breathless at certain points in this book finding my own feelings jumbled in a mass of pain held in my chest.Reason to Breathe is about a young girl named Emily(Emma).
In school Emma keeps to herself and only talks to Sara, but a new boy Evan Matthews comes to school and in just one day everything changes.I do not want to give away the book so i advise you to read it.
Hatred that i spent a good 55% of the book trying to find reasons for, then i realized you can not rationalize or understand hate.
3.75 of 5 starsI hate and love this book.
There were parts that totally got me swooning and there were those that made me wanna throw up the book and curse.
So here, I'll just enumerate the things I love and hate about this book.
Even though she's the most popular girl in school I saw how much she cares and loves Emma.
But as the abuse grew I totally hate that she keeps on thinking like that.
I was so annoyed at this part, when Emma dated Drew.
If I haven't checked if there's a sequel I would really think Emma died in the ending.
5 'Heartbreaking' StarsWhat an amazing book.Emma's father died and her mother is an alcoholic who abandoned her so she has to live with her uncle, aunt, and two cousins. Her auntie(I'm not even sure i should call her that)is a  devil . She's really abusive and she hates Emma, she made that pretty clear when she hits her with anything that's within reach. In school Emma wants nothing but to be invisible. She is. They don't notice her and she doesn't want to be noticed. She walks in a haze. She ju
5 'Heartbreaking' StarsWhat an amazing book.Emma's father died and her mother is an alcoholic who abandoned her so she has to live with her uncle, aunt, and two cousins.
When Evan the new kid (he's not really "new" he've been in that school for about a week but she didn't notice him before) announces his topic for the newspaper Emma can't help but get pissed with him.
They become friends but you can tell that they both feel more for each other than just friendship.“We were engaged in a very intricate dance of touching without touching, knowing without saying, and feeling without expressing.
Basically anything to do with school star.
She is best friends with the most wanted girl in school Sara.
She tries to be as invisible as can be.What they don't know is that she is this way so that she can get out of the house and away from the abuse that awaits her there.
This whole book was just *sigh* emotional...
The times when Em walks into the house, I had such a horrible feeling in my stomach, like the kind you get when you watch horror movies and the silly bitch goes outside to see what the noise was.
Eine absolute Empfehlung, warum? Seht selbst: https://youtu.be/tSH0sWVvzfY
When you love a book so much, but you just can't re-read it again because you can still remember the pain you felt while reading it, like it was yesterday.
Like seriously crazy and mind boggling but amazing.This book stirred so many emotions with me..
I'D RATHER BE AN ORPHAN THAN LIVE WITH A SPINELESS BASTARD LIKE HIM.Carol..
LIKE SHE SERIOUSLY HAS SOME MAJOY CRAZY ISSUES.
:'(People should really know when to open their mouths and raise their voice..
I wish she was more open to him..Sara, Stupid dumb bitch..
I wish she would have opened her mouth!
living and coping with it, choices she makes to stay quiet....and at times it brought tears to my eyes, I gave it 5 stars which I actually did struggle with abit.
(I did just read there is one coming soon).
Rebecca Donovan writes this story and your emotions are right there when reading Emma's story.I would say my struggle with this book is that its a highschool girl living in a violent situation and I would not reccomend it at this point to someone who could or has lived in this kind of situation until I know the sequel is out and I have read it.
You just have to read it.
I am at a loss about how to review this book... It is a very emotional read, found myself so excited/happy at times, and distraught at others. The book left with such a cliff hanger, so glad the second one is out- because I need to find out what happens! Must read!
This book gave me a continuous stomach ache and incredible anxiety for the entire length of time it took me to read it. If there isn't a sequel SOON.........the author is getting the bill for my therapy sessions. God. Almighty. Someone hold me.............
2/5 Idk what I feel about this.Half of the time, I just wanted to insert myself into the book and strangle the aunt like  Boyyyyyyyyy , I swear I never encountered such a fucking deranged character. The aunt was NUTS. It's been confirmed from the  "You is not normal, bitch"   association. Can I replace Emma and just have my way around with her aunt?? I had to endure this entire book of her bat-shit craziness so, I deserve to release this anger and frustration. Idk how the author could sit down a
2/5 Idk what I feel about this.Half of the time, I just wanted to insert myself into the book and strangle the aunt like  Boyyyyyyyyy , I swear I never encountered such a fucking deranged character.
The other half, I honestly just wanted to know the reason behind why Emma's aunt is psychotic???
(The stupid ass uncle)  Ok I get all of this BUT I DON'T UNDERSTAND WHY THE FUCKING AUNT HATES HER ENOUGH TO TORMENT EMMA???
Honestly, did the aunt just one day looked at Emma and turned into the fucking Hulk??
LOVED This book. I laughed, cried, screamed, felt my heart pound I had so many emotions reading this story. I am so happy to hear that there will be a sequel. Emma's story is heartbreaking to say the least but with her friendship to Sara and her relationship with Evan you get so much hope for her. I would recommend this book in a heartbeat.
Emma lives her life virtually undetected by most of the people around her, or so she thinks until Evan Mathews comes along.
But there was absolutely no reason to worry because I was completely engrossed in the story after reading the first few pages.
(Anywhere else those would seem like conflicting ideas but not in world of adolescence.) Two, Emma has a very good reason to have absolutely no self confidence.
Not the least of which is how keeping a secret and thinking you can handle a dangerous situation on your own can lead to horrific results.Reason to Breathe is one of those teen books that will appeal equally to adult readers.
★★★★.I am so glad I kept going on this book. This is exactly why I don't DNF books. Once I got past the beginning, this book was gripping and so interesting.Emma Thomas had lived with her Uncle George and Aunt Carol since her father died in a car accident and her mother was a raging alcoholic. Emma was the star athlete at her school, exceling in soccer, basketball and track. She had an "A" grade point average, managed the school newspaper but her new home situation was less than ideal. For some
Once I got past the beginning, this book was gripping and so interesting.Emma Thomas had lived with her Uncle George and Aunt Carol since her father died in a car accident and her mother was a raging alcoholic.
There were a lot of questions that i didn't have answers to, but this book was such a gripping glimpse into the life of an abuse victim and the lies and fear.While I liked Emma, I loved Sara and Evan more.
Sara and Evan were great support and I hope they give Emma the strength to break her silence.

Half the time, I felt like I was being manipulated to feel Something (sad?
The thing is, I can't feel for Emma/Emily because I'm too busy not liking her (she calls her best friend 'stupid'.
I can't bring myself to root for Evan either because he talks like he's reading from a script.
I knew what will happen in the end.
But the thing is, I think even if I didn't know the ending beforehand, I would still have exhaled , 'Oh thank God'.
Wow.. Just wow.. I am in tears and I am speechless. Video Review: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hm9xdm...This is a very inspiring story about a girl dealing with abuse and how love helps her to keep breathing!Very beautiful writing and characters. The abuse was very upsetting and aggravating, but really evoked all the feels!
Rebecca Donovan has absolutely wrecked me with this gut-wrenching, terrifying, horrific story, and I really needed to gather my thoughts before I could wrap my brain around a review.I went into this book thinking the heroine was going to have some terrible secrets about her life that no one knows, but I was still floored by what Emma has to go through.
Suddenly, the world she's created for herself outside of her aunt's home is thrown into chaos, and Emma has to decide if this boy is worth risking her secret; even if it means tearing her heart out if she decides he isn't.
So far Emma's low profile has worked for her but now Evan's come into the picture and changed things.
Obviously, there's no way she could detail what happens to everyone in real life and the book is not totally devoted to just abuse....there's also love and that's part two.
I don't think a lot of things would have come to pass without her influence.
She is a great best friend but I was not prepared for what happened with her and Emma.Even though it's easy to get wrapped up in the story, you definitely know it's YA.
