https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4110198-the-8th-confession
There is the dead homeless man, nicknamed Bagman Jesus, that Cindy stumbles upon, as well as the murders of San Francisco's rich and famous, done in such a way that not even Claire can figure out exactly what the cause of death is.
I keep waiting for the day there is going to be a plot twist that just knocks my socks off like classic James Patterson would.The plot lines are investigated through the lens of the women's personal drama.
(I've always wanted to do that.)Cindy gets a larger plot line this time around, mostly due to her interference with Rich and Lindsay's non-relationship-relationship.
Lindsay and Richy are trying to solve countless cases piling up on their desks when they're told to drop everything to investigate a very high profile case involving a series of deaths of some of San Francisco's richest and most famous celebrities.
The brass wants the cases solved yesterday but Lindsay and Richy have nothing to go on, no where to start.
Yuki's case comes to an astonishing close that I didn't see coming and the discovery of what killed the rich and famous made my skin crawl!
Recommend.Second Read: 07/23/15 I enjoyed it very much the second time.
These stories are good and well worth reading if you are a Patterson fan.
The main characters are a fun group of women plus a couple male detectives that work well together and have become very close.Fourth Read: I really do like this story.
Good reads is the perfect name for the group.
Of course the link is found and the reason is long and sharp and poisonous.If you are a Patterson fan, you will no doubt enjoy reading this one too.
I'm going to give the next Alex Cross book another try and if that isn't fantastic, Patterson and I are done.For real.This is the 8th installment in Patterson's Women's Murder Club series.
There are two murder mysteries going on.
The first crime is the one that gets the most attention, partly due to the wealth factor and partly because nobody can figure out how the people died.I've read James Patterson's mysteries for years now, and I've noticed that the quality seems to be going downhill lately.
The dialogue just seems fairly wooden and not like what people would say.
Characters that don't act like themselves or real people...and who, if you haven't read the other books in the series, won't make a lick of sense.
It makes no sense...and yet, I read it to the end.
It's like the worst kind of junk food fiction.I got hooked on the books because of the TV series.
In fact through out most of the book, Yuki was a schitzoid bitch--(Uh, no one would say something like what she says to Cindy near the end about the affair with Conklin: "Oh, Lindsay wouldn't bed him, so you can have him.
I love murder mysteries, especially the quick, easy-to-read one's.
I have read every women's murder mystery club book so far and am finishing the series as we speak.
I enjoy this series, but I didn't love this particular novel (even though I read through it at lightening speed).
There was only a strained connection between her plot line and that of the rest of the novel, and that had to do with the doctor she met and briefly dated.
I would have preferred her to be more central to the entirety of the plot or to have stayed out of the novel entirely.
He’s older and more ornery, but he shows his heart now and then, and that makes him endearing.I’m not so sure I understand Linsday Boxer all that well, especially when it comes to her relationship to the two men in her life, her younger partner Rich Conklin, and her boyfriend Joe Molinari.
Like her wise friend Claire (my favorite) said, good thing Cindy helped her out by starting to date Conklin, so Lindsay could let Conklin go.As for the case itself, it wasn’t very complicated, and I miss good police work that would make it more interesting.As I said, I read these because I like the characters, and the short chapters make it such easy reads.
James Petterson has been writing a series of books which are part of the 'Womens Murder Club' series.They involve four women who have all featured heavily in previous books.
They are Lindsay, Cindy, Yuki and Claire.The story for the 8th Confession focuses on two main threads.
Yuki meanwhile is juggling her job as an attorney and falling for what she thinks is the man of her dreams.I read this book just as quickly as other James Patterson books and found the pace pretty good but think that is down to the writing style as opposed to anything else.
However, he really outdid himself this time as there were two side stories as well as the personal interactions of the Women’s Murder Club, plus Lindsay’s partner, Rich, to think about.
I love the way he works in not just the way Lindsay interacts with her friends – Cindy, Claire, and Yuki – but also their personal lives, like including Claire’s family and Lindsay’s relationship with Joe. It rounds out the characters and brings their choices and decisions into a more realistic light.
1) There wasn’t nearly enough Lindsay/Claire interaction for my tastes.
I personally rather liked this 8th addition to the Women's Murder Club Series.The authors have given us two separate plotlines to follow in this one.
Sprinkled among the major plot lines we have numerous accounts of the lives and happenings involving these ladies and their "friends." These little side ventures are what really make this series click for me.The authors have given us a bit of everything to chew on here from deadly snakes, to meth dealers and producers to homeless people to the rich and famous to private boarding schools and of course the everyday lives of our intrepid women sleuths.
In 8th confession, the Women's Club are back with a few hot cases. One involving a well known homeless man and the other involving murder by special circumstances. Between trying to solve these crimes their love lives are in full bloom with plenty of drama.
(Paperback)
It is that clue that shows them the pattern to finally start pulling the case together.As all of this is going on Cindy finally gets an opportunity to come to the fore.
Cindy is horrified at the fact that the police seems to push these types of cases aside because they are overburdered, and no one "really cares." Considering the fact the city is throwing all their big guns on the mystery high society deaths, there is little question that she might be right.
As she and other dig deeper into the case, things aren't what they first seem.As usual, the girls' romances really come to the fore.
another quick and easy read (probably a quick and easy write, too);a cozy mystery for me, since i didn't really get anything of substancethe problem with titling patterns is that sometimes the story got molded to fit the title, instead of the other way around
Two main threads are woven through the tight 112 chapters: the sidewalk slaying of Bagman Jesus and the serial murders attributed to Pet Girl.
Where newspaper reporter Cindy Thomas elevates Bagman Jesus to the ranks of a savior to San Francisco’s homeless, Boxer defrocks him to anything but a liberator.
Meanwhile, Assistant District Attorney Yuki Castellano grapples with indefensible court cases and a perplexing romance, without any intrusion or help from Boxer.
Yuki’s love life does introduce the topic of transgender operations that might spice up this novel over and above the meth-peddling or crack-selling whores stabled by Rodney Booker.There are as many murder victims in this book as there are multiple confessions.
The eighth and latest instalment in Patterson’s popular Women’s Murder Club series starts with a bang, literally.
Once again the Women’s Murder Club – Thomas, Boxer, assistant district attorney Yuki Castellano, and medical examiner Claire Washburn – kicks into gear, seeking to solve both mysteries while juggling upheaval amongst their own professional and private lives.Since co-opting co-authors to help accelerate his sales juggernaut, Patterson’s tales have become mixed, at best (but bestselling regardless) – often formulaic, and never really scaling the excitement heights of his earliest works.
It was a great twist that I think may play out later in the series.As for the crime solving in this one, well...I'm a little skeptical about a murderer using snakes to kill people.
The murder of the homeless man seemed a little more possible, but the fact that Lindsey wasn't supposed to be working the crime at all was unsettling for me.
I think what I'd have liked to see is more of a squabble between Cindy and Lindsey resulting from Cindy's supposed crime fighting, and not over their personal feelings for Rich.Overall, glad that I've gotten myself hooked on this series.
**Short "end of the month" Review**Okay, so not only does this book have 1 crazy plot, it has two.
I really enjoyed the Pet Girl one thou.
Bagman Jesus was way too much for me thou.
Also, i kinda hate Cindy at this point.
She cares very little about anyone other than her dumbass self and she keeps putting herself in shitty situations and doesn't give a damn about how it affects those around her.
The whole bus blowing up in the beginning, they never even bring it up again til almost the very end, you think they would have press about it, or have Claire do their autopsys or something.
Audio version
Another great addition to this series! I love that none of the storylines have been similar to this point. Easy one is unique and interesting and intense! I can't wait to read the next book!
Re-read this for a challenge and I still enjoyed the crazy psychological issue characters have in these stories.
2.5 starsNot quite as good as the previous books.
Lindsay, Yuki and Cindy all have their own separate "cases" to work on.
Meanwhile, love, lust and romance take the forefront as Lindsay, Yuki and Cindy all find themselves dealing with interesting relationship situations.The 8th Confession is "more of the same", but in this case, the same is a very good thing.
The cases are interesting and offbeat.
Cindy's blossoming relationship with Lindsay's partner causes some conflict between the two women and Yuki's new love interest has a fantastic, never-see-it-coming secret to share.There is nothing earth-shattering with Patterson's writing style.
Though I found there to be a lot going on, and I kind of felt like I had ADD every time that my attention was diverted a different mystery from a different character's point of view.
And then a super rich couple was murdered while sleeping, with no trace of the murder weapon and new clue as to cause of death.
Of course it was a good mystery, well told, and it kept my interest the whole time with its fast pace, and I expect no less from James Patterson.
It is hard to imagine how close these girls are within the formula that Patterson and his co writer seem to write within.
I also have noticed that the books are less about the Murder Club and more about individual people and their individual roles such as Lindsey being the super cop with all the hard cases and Yuki's appearances in court and how she loses everything and now with Cindy's new romance with Rich.
Honestly, Lindsey's attitude that she is torn between Joe and Rich and how snarly she gets with Rich having interest in Cindy makes poor reading.
I just have to read the Women's Mystery Club books because they are so good.
This one seemed to have more chattiness amongst the women than the others.
I wanted to read more of the crimes,who did it and how they found why they did them.
What's women without romance, right?I liked it; enjoyed it but still think 1st to Die was the best WMC book.Sometimes, I think when he co-authors with others, not much writing is done by him.
He most likely puts his name on it so the book will sell LOTS.
Honestly don't know why I keep reading this series...the women, in my opinion, with the exception of Claire, are lame. Boxer and her drama about marrying one guy and wanting another to want her, Yuki and her rejection of a perfectly great guy because...well, don't want to give it away, but geez, what a wimp. And Cindy...can you spell n-a-i-v-e? Wait, can I spell naive - yeah, "a" first, that's right. Anyways, I mean again, geez, she's supposed to be a crack crime reporter and she gets played like a violin by a bunch of street people.
The series is stalling big time. Not anywhere near as entertaining as the first five installments and I'm beginning to like Lindsay Boxer less and less. I'm not ready to give up on the series just yet. I'm holding on to the hope that there will be some sort of earth-shattering plot development or that things will just get less predictable.Side-note: Jeez. Yuki can't catch a break can she?
This book reminded me of how much I miss The Women's Club and all the characters. This book is light, short chapters, and a rainy day read.
Considering the amount of hype I've seen surrounding Patterson's books, I definitely expected more.Maybe I made a mistake by starting somewhere in the middle of a series because I'm not familiar with the characters but I have to say that I understood nothing about the characters' motivations, how they were connected with one another at first, and even the plot itself seemed a bit basic as I didn't feel the urge to find out who the killer actually was nor did I particularly care about the characters nor the crimes.As I understood it, this series has four female protagonists who are connected with each other in some way or other, and are also friends.
