https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41700.Vixen_03
This is the same comment for all the Dirk Pitt books:Great set of books, I had to stagger these books into my reading rotation since they are so similar. Dirk Series Book in less then 50 words.(introduction to bad guy, introduction to hot chick, introduction to Dirk, Dirk gets in impossible dangerous situations to stop the bad guy, Dirk wins, Dirk gets the hot chick.)
When I feel like a quick, action-packed read, with a big screen cinematic ending - can't go wrong with Dirk Pitt. #5 came out thirty-five years ago, but, they're still a kick-in-the-butt fun time of a read.
(This South African part drags as there is no Dirk Pitt action for a very long time.) They create one master plan "Operation Wild Rose".Hiram Lusana comes to US to get some support from Congress, after his meeting with Congressman Daggat he was kidnapped by someone.
Then, as we were waves through and your attention was lulled by the guard's opening the gate, his teammate would have discreetly stepped behind the car and blown your head off.I am glad you remembered to raise your hands.(2) Pitt getting angry when Mapes was not able to account for the missing canisters.How many men did your merchandise kill and maim last year, and the year before that?
Vixen 03 flips back and forth between Dirk Pitt's discovery of a plane wreck in a Colorado lake and a civil war brewing in South Africa.
For a while, I forgot I was even reading a Dirk Pitt novel.
Glancing over some reviews online, there seems to be a consensus that this is Cussler's weakest novel, so I'm expecting to be back on track with his next book in the series.As a side note, there is stuff in here that seems racist, but I had a hard time deciding if I should be offended.
Another fun adventure in the Dirk Pitt series.Following the events of the previous book, Pitt and he’s team are tasked with finding a military aircraft that disappeared 30 years ago.The other half of the book features a civil war brewing in South Africa.Compared to others in the series, this instalment is weaker. The fact that it referenced the previous story highlighted this.The South Africa sections were interesting, but I was keen to get back to Pitt’s section of the book.One for this that enjoys Cussler.
Vintage Cussler at his best, that grabs your attention and holds it no matter how many times you read it, and in spite of how old and dated (especially the South Africa segments) the material is. When I say "vintage Cussler," I mean Clive (and Dirk Pitt) at his old-school violent, bloody, profane, sexually-explicit best, not the toned-down PG-rated material (though still highly enjoyable) material he's been writing since the early 1990s (starting with "Dragon").
Chock full of 1970's race and sexist language. One of my favorites is when Dirk finds his lover waiting for him at his car. "Are you crazy? A luscious creature all alone in a Washington parking lot. It's a miracle you weren't assaulted and gang banged." Dirk is such a romantic.
The earlier Dirk Pitt stories are not as polished as the later ones, for obvious reasons. Grittier, more graphic, more heavy with the do-gooder speeches. I'm enjoying revisiting the old Pitt, to better appreciate the new one.
Pretty decent story as a long lost plane laden with a deadly poison nerve agent leads Dirk Pitt into numerous potentially life threatening situations. Less of the awful sexism that spoilt the earlier books and quite a good, gripping plot. Definitely an upturn for this series.
In order to determine if any of the canisters are missing from the downed plane, Dirk essentially forces his boss to ensure the aircraft will be lifted from the lake bed.
Poor Loren is deceived by her friend Felicia and invites Dirk to join her in a special 'love nest'; unbeknownst to the two of them, Daggat has hired a photographer to take pictures of them copulating for extortion and blackmail.
In this earlier novel, Dirk lets the man off the hook with a promise to never attempt to blackmail him or Loren ever again.
My second-favorite favorite 'Dirk Pitt' adventure after 'Raise the Titanic'.
Its a story which stands very self-contained; indeed if 'Titanic!' had never been written this episode could easily swap in for a great introduction to the basic elements of a Dirk Pitt story.There's just nothing to complain about.
They introduce us to inventions-which-haven't-been-invented-yet; and feature cameos by the "Prez of the United States" (almost any thriller will suffer from this), they introduce 'arch-villains', or spend too much time belaboring the obscurantist industry of undersea salvage.Why, fer criminey's sake...in 'Night Probe!' Cussler tries to pass off on us, a special cameo by James Bond!
Many details in the book are technically implausible as well, as some of the actions were simply not possible (such as piloting a ship with a 22' draft up the Potomac).
Many or most of the weapons and aircraft mentioned were figments of Cussler's imagination, which also sucked some of the credibility from the book.
Is he this lazy in writing his other books?The storyline is cheaply written as if lots of action will overcome ridiculous implausibility.
Because of my love of the later Pitt novels, I grabbed this one without reading the premise. Boy what a mistake! This book was terrible. Heck I think Pitt appeared in only about 30% of it. Other than his time in bed with the congresswoman, Pitt actually plays a very small part of this book until the last 50 pages or so. I'm so disappointed as I usually love these books. I'll have to be more careful in choosing my books.I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone.
I think this is my favorite Dirk Pitt novel. It's one of the first we see his Congressional love interest, and we also get some good back story and glimpses of his hangar. But it's the gripping opening scenes and the tension with the lake that really sets it going.Cussler really began to come into his own around this point, and it shows. I'll have to pick this one up again, and if you want to just sample one book by this guy, I'd say go with Vixen 03!
I listened to this on Audio tape. Usually a big fan of Dirk Pitt. But he isn't even in this book for what seems like more then half of it. At one point I wasn't even sure it was the same book. The ending was good.
Another adventure series with wondrous escapes. Always a good non-thinking read. Interesting histories in Prefaces. Saw him at Murder by the Book party in Denver years ago. He was too busy to meet. Certainly has lots of silver hair.
Liked the structure, the parallel "stories" joining towards the end... And, as always, good action!
Very exciting. Dirk has to find a sunken plane that contains nucular warheads that terrorists want. When he raises the plane he realizes that 3 warheads are missing.
Finalmente conosciamo la fidanzata di Dirk!
Il titolo italiano, "Virus", è un po' fuorviante: sebbene si parli effettivamente di armi batteriologiche (non è un grande spoiler, c'è scritto anche nella quarta di copertina), l'intreccio si concentra sulla caccia all'arma ancora inesplosa, non su una epidemia in corso.Con mia grande delusione, devo dire: ero proprio dell'umore giusto per godermi scenari apocalittici, zombi, stermini di massa, distruzioni della civiltà, eccetera.
Sono cose che ho già molto visto al cinema, ma sorprendentemente, pensandoci, poco nella pagina scritta.
Il protagonista si è già visto in altri romanzi di Clive Cussler, a quanto pare, sempre come membro di una agenzia governativa americana di fantasia, addetta ai recuperi sottomarini.
Cussler is on form with Vixen 03.
Dirk Pitt, a recurring character, features in this stand-alone tale of terrorism, with plenty of mystery and action.
The second quarter of the book is tough going, for it doesn't feature Pitt at all.
There is good reason for the depth of story early on - the plots are well twisted and create a decent level of suspense.
It doesn't over play the story, and the finale is well executed.
If you remember to take Cussler's work with a hefty pinch of salt you'll enjoy Vixen 03 - a solid adventure yarn.
For the first time as I read this series in the order Cussler wrote them, I feel he wrote a deep and interesting plot.
The different parts, the tie-ins to South Africa and the AAR, the politics all seemed to fit into a good intriguing plot.
But at least this time it is only in small phrases, bit parts, and barracks jokes.Was it a good read?
It still makes me wonder what the niche Cussler hit to get published back then, but he did and at least here we're seeing him start to hit his stride.Two-dimensional characters, bland diction, but a fun, interesting story.
Found in an unexpected place, the discoverer isn't the first to find it, an extra body not part of the original flight crew adds to the mystery along with its unusual cargo.A bitter battle is raging in Africa, one group aiming to take power from the White's who have dominated the power for too long.
Internal power struggles, intrigue from many different directions as each group tries to grab the reins.The two courses intertwine increasing the stakes, while in the middle Dirk Pitt is racing against time to stop a disaster no one could ever have predicted.
Vixen 03 springt heen en weer tussen Dirk Pitt's ontdekking van een vliegtuigwrak in een meer in Colorado en een dreigende burgeroorlog in Zuid-Afrika. De twee verhaallijnen zijn knap verbonden, maar het Afrikaanse gedeelte sleept zich soms voort. Hoewel Dirk Pitt de naamgever is van deze serie boeken, kwam hij in dit verhaal , tot aan de laatste hoofdstukken, niet echt aan bod.Het boek is een typisch boek uit het einde van de jaren '70, vol met macho-mannen, wapens en sexy vrouwen. Niet een van de beste van Cussler.
I've really been enjoying Clive Cussler's Dirk Pitt series and Vixen 03 was no different. Pitt finds the wreck of Vixen 03, a WWII cargo plane with mysterious canisters aboard and an extra body that's not a crew member. Turns out two canisters are missing and they contain a bio-weapon. The chase is on!! I was slightly disappointed at the ending as I felt Cussler rushed it a little. Still an enjoyable read!
As I've been following Dirk Pitt series that was the most complicated story so far but it has no bad effect on readability. Two stories going through differently meet at the end of the story. Pitt is classical Pitt and being always at the correct place in the correct time, always dodging bullets and making friends. I can feel Clive was gaining much experience while writing these by the adventures become more and more interesting in each book.
The story was a little too convoluted for my liking - the AAR seemed to flip flop regularly, which may have been because of the book being too short for the political games that were supposed to be happening. It was all feeling pretty rushed, which was weird because of how many weeks-long gaps were written into the story.Still, not bad, especially when compared to books 1-3. Simple, quick reading.
This is my first time reading one from Dirk Pitt series. It was straight forward,normal,easy to read adventure story line with some sex,doomsday conspiracy and action,just the typical things you expect from an adventure story .the book felt more like a movie script than a novel . I wonder as to why it hasn't been scripted into a movie. If that happens it will make a one of your typical adventure/action movies very easily.
It took a while for me to find the copy of the one I read. I think I got it right.I wish I still had my copies! But, alas, I have lost them through the many times I have moved. My own adventures, while worth it, have lost those copies decades ago.Al Giordino is still my favorite character in the Dirk Pitt series.
O primeiro de uma série de livros perdidos e mal-amados que encontrei aqui em casa. Gostei bastante da premissa, mas eu gosto de acção. Nunca tinha lido Clive Cussler mas foi bem divertido. A única crítica é que o diálogo mostra todos os seus anos, vê-se ao longe em que década nos encontramos.
