https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/439473.Mystery_of_the_Desert_Giant
A great entry into the Hardy Boys series.
Frank and Joe pick up a case that ties into one their father's (but when don't they) investigations.
Soon, the boys find themselves flying out to Arizona with their buddy Chet.
Their rotund companion got conked on the head in the second chapter, which may just be the earliest ever concussion inflicted during a mystery!Standards jokes aside, this really is one of the better books in the series.
It was worth it though, and is certainly worth your time, especially if you enjoy the adventures that involve flying sequences.Find it!
This book was amusing. I enjoyed the suspense, action, and cliffhangers. It was like my eyes were glued to the book. Frank and Joe are in search of counterfeiters...will they find them or be outsmarted? I would recommend this book to anyone that likes action and mystery.
My book has the 1960 cover.
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
Definitely one of the best Hardy Boys books I have ever read! This book took place mostly in the Southern California and Mexico desert. It was pretty fast paced so I never got bored, and overall it was really fun to read. Highly recommend.
A fun romp in classic Hardy Boys style. That said, I think this adventure suffers somewhat from too much running around, and changing of settings. The payoff isn't that exciting and I found that this book wasn't as interesting as when the intrepid sleuths stick around the Bayport area.
It is not one of the better hardy boys books. I wouldn't recommend it. There was too many different stories and it was just confusing. It was boring and non interesting. There was no suspense and they really didn't do any mystery solving.
I loved this one! A really good Hardy Boys book. I love the government tie-ins and the title of this book really evokes a magnificent feeling in me. Good one.
Great thrilling exciting mystery!
typical Hardy book. Probably not quite as exciting as some of the others. In my collection this book is # 6.
William Grafton has gone missing in the Arizona desert, and the Hardy boys are on the case!
The young detectives are full of surprises as they track Grafton through Mexico, California, and even up to Colorado.
The "desert giants"-ancient Indian ruins-they discover point them to another mystery along the way, a mystery which may not be so separate as they think from the one Grafton is involved in.
This was the first book in "The Hardy Boys" series I have read, and I was surprised at the depth of the mystery.
Enjoyable and fun, as usual.
The classic boy detectives by Frank Dixon--I read ALL of them in my younger years, one I ran out of Nancy Drew books. The Hardy Boys are brother amateur detectives, aspiring to follow in their famous father's footsteps.The two boys live in the fictional city of Bayport (on Barmet Bay) with their famous father, Fenton Hardy, a private detective formerly with the New York Police Department, their mother Laura Hardy (erroneously called Mildred in The Flying Express), and their Aunt Gertrude, a character often used for comic relief.
This was a pretty boring installment of The hardy Boys series, with the boys not exactly solving the mystery but more being harrassed by the villains and having clues thrown at them by some really stupid crooks. The crime didn't even make sense - the crooks find gold and spend it on a counterfeiting machine? Why not just settle on the money they got from selling the gold?
This was my favorite of the Hardy Boys books that I read, and it was one of the first. Go figure. In fact, it wasn't until years later when I found the book again that I even realized it had been a Hardy Boys mystery.
This was a fun, quick read. I don't normally read Hardy Boys mysteries, but was given this book because the bulk of the action takes place near my hometown. Though the language was dated, so am I, so that didn't bother me, and it was fun to read about places so familiar!
Read in 2005.
it's nice
Dixon, Franklin W.
I think the Hardy Boy books helped me with learning deductive and inductive skills. I had to work through logic. Who knew? I enjoyed all these books.
Such a rising suspence. I had my own thoughts of what would happen in the book and was blown away.
Abby says: This book builds suspense so you don't want to stop reading! I learned that there was a kind of pony called a Shetland Pony which I liked and I also liked learning about Arizona too!
Good book. Can't wait to read the next one.
SM
This was my favorite of the Hardy Boys books that I read, and it was one of the first. It was a very good book & it helped me with learning deductive and inductive skills :D
read when I was 10 through 13
Sam read this book first and really enjoyed it, so I thought I'd try it. I can see how young readers could get hooked, but I won't be buying the whole set.
I like all hardy boys so of course I like it.
