https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1041978.How_to_Be_Filled_with_the_Holy_Spirit
I enjoyed reading Tozer's sermons and his thoughts on the Holy Spirit.
or maybe it does and the reason God so rarely fills people with his Spirit is because no one is ever able to meet the impossibly high conditions of 100% surrender, self-denial and total obedience.
I'd think if we could be filled with the Holy Spirit maybe we'd have the supernatural ability to be 100% surrendered and totally obedient, but it doesn't appear anyone has chance since we have to first reach this state of perfection, before God will give His Spirit.
Well, I can recall many years ago before becoming jaded, when I did sincerely desire God, wanted to be completely surrendered and obedient, but I'd ask and nothing...
Starting line for walking with the Holy SpiritI have, for a long time, struggled with what it means to walk in the Spirit. I grew up with a fundamentalist back ground, so the concept of “spirit” is very difficult for me. I, like the book mentions, believe that the Holy Spirit exists, is a person, and is still at work today, yet I have yet to develop a relationship with Him.I am looking forward to getting to know Him better, thank you Tozer for the helpful guidelines!
About the Book:The only way to live with true spiritual power"Are you sure you want to be possessed by a spirit other than your own?
Even though He be as loving as the heart of God?" —A.
Unlike this individual I speak of there are many people that are not interested in this gift and I really think that, that is a shame.
I loved his approach when asking someone if they are ready to possessed by another spirit that is not their own.
I read this years and years ago. I wanted to reread it seeing as I’m hosting a group this spring where for one session we may talk about this, so I wanted it to be fresh in my mind. I love how he breaks everything down. His depth reminds me of CS Lewis but I feel like it’s even more simplified.
Near the end of his subsection on 'What the Scriptures say," he says a couple of things that give me pause, but the chapter is an important read.
Again, chapter three begins fairly well, the opening and first section, "Is the Spirit-Filled Life for You?," poses some good questions and presents some equally good thoughts worthy of consideration.
The section "Do You Want to be Filled?" appears to mix and confuse elements of salvation and sanctification.
It also appears to contradict statements made in chapter two, "The Internal Evidence," showing a lack of consistency and logic.
"How to Be Filled with the Holy Spirit" by A.W. Tozer is a very short yet powerful book.
I have read a few books by Tozer which usually were compilations of some of his work or the sermons that he delivered.
Tozer does a great job unpacking who the Holy Spirit is and how we can develop a closer and deeper relationship with Him.Like most books that I have read with works of A.W. Tozer, this one is highly recommended for certain.
Tozer says that in order to receive the Holy Spirit, four things must happen.1) We present our body to Him (Romans 12:1-2).2) Then, we ask the Father for the Holy Spirit (Luke 11:9-11).3) Third, we obey and do what we are asked to do, which is to live in accordance with the scriptures (Acts 5:32).4) Last, we have faith - faith that He possesses our bodies, minds, and lives (Galatians 3:2).Then, Tozer gives us wonderful advice for how to cultivate the Holy Spirit:1) We must be engrossed with Jesus Christ.
I loved the challenge of chapters 3 and 4 and Tozer sets the bar high, but there needs to be a chapter 5 that explains that we are human and we will never be free of sin.The way Tozer ends the book I walked away feeling terribly unworthy.
A strong chapter 5 is needed to address this as I'm certain Tozer would not want people to leave the book feeling hopeless.No one will ever be good enough to be worthy of the holy spirit.
Jesus wants us to keep our eyes on Him. If we keep our eyes on Jesus we are instantly worthy of the Holy Spirit.
Tozer starts with a simple explanation of who the Holy Spirit is, but the opus maximus of the book is the chapter in which his questions reveal why so few are are seeking to be filled.
In short we can't be filled with the Holy Spirit when we are full of ourselves.
Which leads me to recommend the book, "The Crucified Life" also by Tozer.
For it is only through living the crucified life that there will be room for the Holy Spirit to truly fill us.
I love Tozers reverence for God. This short book is a series of four sermons on the Holy Spirit.
I am not sure I agree with the argument that we must ask to be filled with the Holy Spirit even long after we have been converted as I always believed that we have the Holy Spirit from the time of our conversion living in our hearts.
It did not detract from what he had to say about God though and his argument seemed to be against people who believed that the Holy Spirit had not been given to anyone after the apostolic age.
I realized that the Lordship of Christ in my life is not in ALL areas yet.
Yet I want to be filled by the Holy Spirit.
I want to walk in the Spirit, to be victorious in my Christian walk.
Amos 3:3 was quoted: "Can two walk together, except they be agreed?".
Surely I have not TOTALLY agreed to where God is leading me.
And so I sobbed because I know I only have declared with my mouth that Jesus is my Lord but I have not really walked my talk.This book helped me in this realization.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book by A.W. Tozer.
This is a wonderfully reminder to those that have been in church for years.
It is also a wonderful starting point for those beginning their Christian journey.Given in the premise of a four part sermon, Tozer outlines beautifully how to live and be filled with the holy spirit.
Though this works was written originally in the 1960s, it's subject resonates with today's societally pressures.
It is a quick listen but one I would highly recommend to all.***NOTE: I received an ACX of this book in exchange for an honest review.
You have to really want it.So often, we say we want the power or the guidance of The Holy Spirit, but we don’t want the responsibility. Tozer lays out truth through a collection of 4 sermons that start with a basic understanding of what The Holy Spirit is and end with cultivating a desire for and relationship with who The Holy Spirit is.Whether you are new follower of Christ or a scholarly theologian, a volunteer at a church or a seasoned pastor, this book will speak to your spirit if you let it.
Hidden Gems, Hard Author Reading Tozer is a bittersweet thing for me. I find myself having a hard time following his thought process because it seems like his thoughts jump from one point to another very quickly. However, I have gained so much knowledge about the Holy Spirit between this booklet and while I was reading his other book, The Counselor, it is worth trying to focus a little extra. I have highlighted quite a few quotable excerpts from this book because the content really is good.
Not easy, but did you expect it to be?As an Episcopalian -and I'm not "dissing" my beloved denomination- thHoly Spirit always seems to be the "er, um" persona of God. So, this was a bit rough on me. However, it was/is a lucid guide through to path to walking with, and being filled with the Spirit promised by Jesus. I will suggest that you stick with it when you want to lay it aside. It isn't you getting impatient, it is the one who wants to block your journey. Read on in the Spirit's strength, and acquire His power
Again, Mr. Tozer is becoming one of my favorite authors!
As I mentioned before, I feel like the Holy Spirit gets neglected from most people because the focus is mostly on God the Father & God the Son. So, I'm actively searching for all the info I can absorb on the Holy Spirit.
This book (How to be Filled with the Holy Spirit) shed so much light on Him!
It's one of the books that you just know it'll be on your bookshelf for the rest of your life.
Tozer gives insights that I know I would not have put together on my own, and I love that!

Very practical and concise explanation of the Spirit-filled life. I would have given 5 stars, but at a few points Tozer makes statements that seem to contradict the foundational truth that he lays out in chapter 1, that the Spirit is not material. If the Spirit is not material, we don’t need more of him to be filled, we need to surrender more to him. It’s as if Tozer has fallen for the improper metaphor of filling a cup.
Reading Tozer is always time well spentI probably highlighted half of this book. Many of his points that were so true 60 years ago are even more so now. This was just what I needed. In a world where even Christians are consumed by so many things other than just knowing Jesus, it feels like taking the hand of a friend and being walked gently back to what is truly important. I wish I could have heard Tozer speak and it will be a joy to meet him in heaven!
Tozer is faithful to scripture. He writes in a clear and concise manner that everyone can understand.He explains just who the Holy Spirit is and how we can understand Him and how vital it is to have the Holy Spirit as an all important part of your Christian walk.In a nutshell his advice: Read the Bible and Meditate on what you are reading.I would recommend this to everyone who call themselves a Christian.
Desiring the Holy SpiritIt is to our advantage to desire what will save and change our lives for the better. Reading the Bible is also required so you can understand what the prophets went through and how they lived, hours and hours of praying daily. For me I desire to be filled with the Holy Spirit. Meditating in the good of my thoughts.
*3.5Ehhhhhhh. It was good, but didn't really grip my heart beyond simple education. I now Tozer is beloved, and I'm sure I'll eventually feel that way, but this was my first experience with him. It was educational, but there were a few things I strongly, STRONGLY disagreed with and I just didn't really feel what I wanted to feel. Still a good, short read!
Simply ProfoundAmazingly simple yet profoundly deep and meaningful. This book really makes you think and reflect on what it means to have the Spirit of God love within you. Tower provides a no-nonsense straight forward message. I highly recommend this for both the new believer and seasoned Pastor alike.
This was a short book but most helpful. Tozer points out that the Holy Spirit is a living person, we are to be engrossed with Jesus Christ, we are to walk in righteousness, we are to make our thoughts a clean sanctuary, we are to seek the word, and we are to cultivate the art of recognizing the presence of the Spirit.
Read this before any other study to understand the Holy Spirit.I have read a number of books on the Holy Spirit. Aside from the Bible, this book, though a short, quick read, is the one that has helped me understand who The Spirit is and how to be filled. Simply written. Simple language. Yet very enlightening. Thank you A.W. Tozer.
SO MUCH I DIDNT KNOWA trusted great writer recommended to me by many a person. He speaks the truth and from the heart. This mans love for God jumps off the pages!! I learned enough to know i have much more to learn. This changed how i think of The Holy Spirit. Opened up a whole new world of thought
Tozer is a GeniusRead this book. Tozer has a way of putting words on a peice of paper and making them turn to action for yourself. The action is on you. You must act and do these actions in response. Tozer has a mind for God and God is definitely moving about in his life through his words.
A little dry and awkwardly read considering it was originally written as a set of sermons I suppose that’s why it translates this way in audio book. Anytime I have read or listened to anything by A.W. Tower I am challenged and want to take notes/highlight a ton so I can come back to key phrases. This was no different. I’d listen to it again despite the peculiarities.
Simple, accessible, profoundTozer is one of my favorite teachers to learn from. He isn't afraid to talk tough, deep issues, but he expounds on them in a simple, straightforward way. This book is now different. What you need to know distilled into a short, easy to read package. Strongly recommended.
