https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13624.The_Worm_Ouroboros
Yet it is partially the oddness of the book--particularly the eccentric and unique prose style--that gives it power.
These characters do not live in a world that sounds like ours, and they do not speak as we speak, and this helps Eddison capture the majesty—and strangeness—of his epic warriors.
His heroes share a combination of lofty nobility and careless contempt for others that puts them in the exalted company of Homer's Achilles and Shakespeare's Hamlet.
It stimulated parts of my brain that hadn't been stimulated before.Here is a typically odd, amusing, and rather beautiful passage:' So speaking, the King was come with Gro into his great bath chamber, walled and floored with green serpentine, with dolphins carved in the same stone to belch water into the baths that were lined with white marble and sunken in the floor, both wide and deep, the hot bath on the left and cold bath, many times greater, on the right as they entered the chamber.
Neither goes unquestioned, so that even when honesty is lauded and treachery is condemned, there is a certain self-awareness and irony in play.In Fantasy, as in the Epic before it, there is an inherent conflict between the hyperbole of the high action and the need for sympathetic characters.
The play of language is complex and studied, and second in force only to a master like Mervyn Peake.Rare is the author who has picked up the resonance of the early fantasy works of Morris, MacDonald, Dunsany, and Eddison, but there are some, such as Fritz Leiber and Michael Moorcock, and though they are sadly few, they represent remarkably unique visions within the tradition.
This is probably the first book ever where I liked the overly wordy descriptions of everything over dialogs for the simple reason that unlike dialogs the descriptions sometimes contain words still in use in modern English.
I have seen nothing while reading dialogs and poetry; these letters are the high point of archaic word use.
The ambitious kings of Witches (bad guys) who mostly hid behind the backs of Demon army decided it would be a good time to grab some land from Demons considering the fact that their own army remained largely intact.
So strong in properties of ill is this serpent which the ancient Enemy that dwelleth in darkness hath placed upon this earth, to be a bane unto the children of men, but an instrument of might in the hand of enchanters and sorcerers. A messenger arrives at Krothering Castle with a demand to the gathered lords of Demonland from the king of Witchland. They are to come to his court at Carcë and swear him fealty as his loyal subjects, or he will enforce his demands by force of arms. Thus begins a gr
And while this book unfortunately is horribly dated, even for a lover of the archaic like myself, there are plenty of examples of sentences and plot points where Eddison remains an important source of inspiration.Part of The Worm Ouroboros is a mess.
It is one of the first examples of modern fantasy, and of moving away from the land of fairytales and into the territory of grand stories on an epic scale.I would also like to give it extra praise for this last quote, which reminded me why I feel so strongly about fantasy…”And for thirty days and thirty nights wandered I alone on the face of the Moruna in Upper Impland, where scarce a living soul hath been: and there the evil wights that people the air of that desert dogged my steps and gibbered at me in darkness.
If you have a problem with something written in an archaic style, then you probably won't get much out of it, but if you like that kind of thing I think the book repays reading and is definitely worth it.
This was a man who intimately understood the archaic form of the english language and used it to perfection...he was a stylist and thus anyone who hates stylistic prose will not likely be drawn to him, but anyone who appreciates the crafstmanship of language (think Morris & Dunsany) has to at least appreciate if not love Eddison.
If you want a larger than life adventure in exquisite prose then I think _The Worm_ is great.
The Worm Ouroboros is incredibly dense and it’s written in faux Jacobean English.
It took me three tries to get through this book, so take that for what it’s worth.
The great thing about it is that it's written from a different perspective than Narnia or Lord of the Rings in that both of those stories are explicitly or implicitly Christian.
The book is definitely one of my favorites and one of the novels that had a great deal to do with the author I became.
I recommend The Worm Ouroboros if you’re looking for something out of the mainstream and beautiful.
This is fantasy written in the sweeping style of the epic, a highly beautiful and poetic style that serves to convey truths and interesting narratives at the same time.
Perhaps older tales like the Iliad, The Odyssey and Le Morte d'Arthur may have the same quality, yet I have not read those yet.The Worm Ouroboros focuses on a long fantastic history of war between Demonland and Witchland.
It is one of the great classics of fantasy and of literature which reveal the value of using the traditions of epic narrative and to some small degree fairytale to reveal truth.
I'm sure people have been recommending him this book all day. But having read it, I'm afraid there are few useful details concerning technique.
And sure none was ever more unfortunate.It is a book chock-full of cinematic moments against which you can almost hear the swelling score as in the return of Lords Juss and Brandoch Daha to Demonland from their expedition to Impland, or the return of the Demons to the steppes of the Moruna as seen through the eyes of Lord Gro. Not to mention the death of Gro: both in its manner and the actions that precipitate it, which are just so apt, so expressive of who he is and the tragedy of his life, that I didn’t know whether to laugh or cry upon reading it.
(And they totally had it coming; they were bad eggs.)The Demons are represented by Lord Juss (the King), his brothers Goldry Bluszco and Spitfire, and their cousin Brandoch Daha.
Ill to do with as was the crest of the great north buttress by which they had climbed the mountain, seven times worse was this eastern ridge, leading to Koshtra Belorn.
THE WORM OUROBOROSRambling, obscure, written after the style of the seventeenth century, filled with characters it is difficult to even like, much less love, and the story is supposed to take place on Mercury, though it is not science fiction and there is no particular reason why the author should have hit on that planet more than any place else — this hardly sounds like a recommendation, I know, yet the book is, deservedly, considered a classic.The story begins when King Gorice XI of Witchland lays claim to Demonland and demands the fealty of her rulers, Lords Juss, Goldry Bluszco, and Spitfire.
Don’t get me wrong: I don’t want to encounter Elizabethan-style prose in every book I read but one of the things I don’t like about a lot of what passes for literature out there is the dull, turgid writing that ignores English’s rhythms, has its characters talk like denizens of the 21st century, and refuses to push the envelope in what English is capable of.A third reason I enjoyed The Worm Ouroboros peculiar to myself is Eddison’s ear for names.
This is a 'classic'.
A lot of high-powered writers liked it.
It's in an odd style (Elizabethan?) with a story that reminds me of the Iliad or the Odyssey.
Great story, sucky style.
Why he writes such long, convoluted sentences with archaic words in such a stilted style is beyond me.
All the critics like it, but I doubt it will ever be popular with the masses.Once I got past the style, the story was a lot of fun.
It's an imaginative world where the inhabitants are demons, witches & the politics are as bad as those of the Iliad.
They are all likeable (the villains loveable rouges) but they are not what we would think of in this day and age as well fleshed out characters.
We never really get a sense of what they are thinking and feeling other than indirectly through their actions, sayings and expressions.
Consequently they do not feel real but then they don't need to; this is a fantasy in the fullest sense of the word.
This defies anyone's attempts to find greater meaning underlying the surface but I personally think that it is hard not to feel one learns something about humanity in this story.
Eddison created an entire new world (as is the nature of high fantasy), populated by complex heroes with flaws and villains with virtues, striving for power, love, and, most of all, transcendence through personal glory in heroic accomplishments against insurmountable odds.
One is exemplified by “The Lord of the Rings”—it has a distinctly Christian sensibility, where the correct, moral choice is clear, and heroes and villains are also clear, though the characters are not always purely good or bad (think Boromir).
Since it was written following the First World War, I can imagine it being a commentary on the absurdity of the British cultural position toward warfare, but it would have been nice for at least ONE character to be sort of likable/reasonable/intelligent/NORMAL.The story in a nutshell: one of three brothers is kidnapped, the remaining brothers and their friend must save him while protecting their kingdom from the evil bad guy trying to steal it from them.
The characters in a nutshell: two dimensional (probably more like one) war-mongers who are dearly beloved to their soldiers for their prowess, honesty and virtue.
Here is a fantasy story of epic supermen battling equally powerful and very evil enemies on the fields and in the mountains and on the seas of Mercury.
Here are some good bits: Neither man nor horse might stand up before 'em, and they faring as in a maze now this way now that, amid the thrumbling and thrasting o' the footmen, heads and arms smitten off, men hewn in sunder from crown to belly, ay, to the saddle, riderless horses maddened, blood splashed up from the ground like the slush from a marsh.
Well...this is a beautifully written book.
But I freely admit I wonder why a writer writing in 1922 (or shortly before) chose to relate his tale in 16th century English.
I know some love it and I also freely admit it is great for "portentous" storytelling:And it came to pass that the King of Demon Land did challenge the monarch of Witch Land to wrestle (Wrastle).
It's well written and I believe much of this is a matter of taste...
The books that inspired J.R.R. Tolkien? Sure I'll read them.
Well, one of my favourites, at least.It's only when one gets to the end of The Worm Ouroboros that one learns what the story is really all about and can glean some kind of understand thing that there are some thoughtful underpinnings to Eddison's otherwise brashly heroic tale, that's brashly modelled on a range of sources with it's overtly ornate mock-Jacobean prose, snippets of classic poetry and larger than life but strangely one-dimensional heroes and villains.The clue is in the title, but there's a wonderful red-herring, since Eddison leads the reader to believe that the Ouroboros - the one that will be continually reborn - is King Gorice and that his evil will perhaps never be thwarted.
A very strange book, frequently beautiful, ofttimes prolix, and with a thematic structure that left me scratching my head.
Either way, it's a page-turner; and wholly unique.
And the archaic morality displayed in this book allows for a great deal of the truth about human nature to be put forward with little compromise, and an unexpected level of sympathy for blackguards of all stripes.Lord Gro is, without a doubt, one of the best and most fascinating characters I've ever encountered.
It is very dense and written in faux Jacobean English which made reading it burdensome.
Again, the story is great, but the writing was very taxing and I could only read it in about twenty page increments.
We couldn't help thinking Demonland, Witchland, and Goblinland were evil nations, and we had to keep reminding ourselves Demonland were the good guys.
When I think of a demon I think of the most evil creature in existence, but in this book they are good guys.
It was confusing with all the names, the nations, and the writing, while trying to rewire my brain that demons were good.
Si bien, como otros, se basa en viejas leyendas (principalmente escandinavas), autores como Homero, Ovidio y Virgilio (podría incluir también a Plutarco, aunque sea más su función de historiador) y material de Shakespeare (siendo amante de la obra del Bardo), Eddison logra arremeter con fuerza el ámbito de la fantasía épica y nos describe un mundo ajeno tan similar al nuestro que dudamos si se referirá a otro o a nuestro propio planeta.
Se vale de dioses, costumbres, criaturas e incluso atisbos de sucesos históricos bien conocidos; todo esto para formar un relato excelso, que remonta los deseos más recónditos de la niñez tanto del autor como del propio lector.
I already commented on someone else's review of this book. Anyway, the best fantasy novel I've ever read (and the best read I've had this year). Not an easy read, but take it slow and let the beautiful language establish its own pace. Gorgeous prose that reads like poetry.
In this manner The Worm Ouroboros is similar to A Song of Ice and Fire in that it is political tension between kingdoms which creates the conflict in the narrative, nudging the characters to venture out into dangerous lands on a journey, rather than an artificial instigator like a prophecy, or a magic item.
The general population of the world, its citizens, and especially the soldiers, fall distinctly into the background of the story while being influenced and led by a number of specifically named characters.
The first thing to say is that I think Ouroboros stands up to Tolkien favorably**, in that what Lord of the Rings sets out to do, Eddison does better - even effortlessly.
In the end, the resolution leads one to suspect that conflict is an inevitably recurring phenomenon (thus the theme of Ouroboros eating its own tail), and that victory is fleeting because the joy of conflict is the true stuff of life.The best character in the story, and the one I most enjoyed reading about, was the exiled non-warrior goblin Lord Gro. Gro reacts to these extreme situations much in the way a modern person might: cautiously, sensibly, and with an acute awareness of the enormity of the tragic events surrounding him.
This book is brilliant, a literary feast that makes modern works seem wanting in their command of the English language.
However, it is easily seen that this circular structure of fighting battles for the honor one will receive ultimately either diminishes the heroes of the book or shows that the honor and goodness which the heroes display throughout the story is incongruous with this claimed love of battle for its own sake.
But, even though the final twist of the ending somewhat diminishes the character of the heroes, the book itself is a fantastic journey which is both rich and original.
I was thrilled in the beginning with the langorous prose style and similarities to the Icelandic Sagas.
That thrill wore off as Eddison spent more and more time describing physical locations and the characters took on an odd similarity to each other.
There was only one engaging character and he was seen only sporadically after the first 50 pages, totally unlike the one Icelandic Saga I read (Egil's Saga) which was stuffed with unique and vibrant personalities.
Despite its troubles, Eddison was able to throw down some amazing paragraphs that really burn the brain with their brilliance.
Read nowadays, in the context of the modern fantasy genre, aspects of The Worm can seem like flaws — such as the fact that the POV character from our world, Lessingham, is forgotten a few chapters in, or the fact that the main nations of Eddison’s world have slightly jarring names (Demons, Imps, Witches) — but these are, I think, evidence of its originality.
The Worm is essentially about a clash of two different types of fictional character: the all-out heroes (the Demons) created in Eddison’s childhood, and the dastardly villains (the Witches) who owe more to John Webster and the dramatis personae of Macbeth than straight-ahead adventure fiction.
