https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35099718-so-you-want-to-talk-about-race
I’m trying to ride the intersectionality train, but if I’m doing an honest accounting of things, I have not been doing a great job of reading books by Black women when it comes to issues like feminism and race.
That’s why I’m going to be buying a copy of this book since I received a review copy for free—because we need to pay Black women when they do the work of educating us.So You Want to Talk About Race is everything I’d look for in a book on social justice issues.
Until we challenge the structure of power, we will not address the underlying cause of social and economic injustice.Here are the main takeaways I got from this book:- It’s not about me or Ijeoma.
This is about structural injustice.- It’s not about the tone of the discussion.
This is about structural injustice.- It’s not about who is right and who is wrong.
This is about structural injustice.- It’s not about who can use what words.
(And, as Ijeoma points out, there are many.)In the end, I won’t say this was the most pleasant read.
It's not about us.Oluo’s book builds on earlier books on this theme in the best way possible: You Can’t Touch My Hair by podcaster Phoebe Robinson, and Why I Am No Longer Talking to White People About Race by British journalist Reni Eddo-Lodge, were both enormously helpful in raising some of the issues Oluo addresses with such clarity.
So You Want To Talk About Race by Ijeoma Oluo I loved this book. I finished it in a day simply devouring Oluo’s word. I can relate to so much of what Oluo was sharing and in so many ways it was validating but also depressing. I feel better knowing that I’m not the only person experiencing these microaggressions, working through these issues and surviving day to day but at the same time having these similar lived experiences makes me very well aware of how far we have to come in the U.S. when it
I feel better knowing that I’m not the only person experiencing these microaggressions, working through these issues and surviving day to day but at the same time having these similar lived experiences makes me very well aware of how far we have to come in the U.S. when it comes to dealing with race, racism and equality.
When I took a look at the contents of the book I was blown away because I could recognize immediately that these topics were geared towards having a thorough conversation about race and not just placating people who want to feel like they are putting in the work.
This book is largely for non-POC who wish to be allies or POC who are in denial of, not aware of or unfamiliar with the systemic racism prevalent in American society. Unlike many other scholarly works on race, this book uses language that is accessible and could even be used in an AP Language course. Actually, it would probably be a great addition to an AP Language course. Most importantly, it needs to be read far and wide by teachers especially or anyone who works with POC.
). Overall, the arguments were well thought out and honest if more than a little difficult to digest (who wants to know that they are in fact not carrying their share of the workload in this important fight?
As Oluo writes, “If you live in this system of White Supremacy you are either fighting the system or you are complicit.”) And it is frustrating knowing that not living the life of a person of color, I am limited in my understanding of the effects of systemic racism.
While the subject and content in So You Want to Talk About Race is important and essential to our current climate, I struggled with Oluo’s writing.
Well-written book about an enormously painful and horrible system of oppression. Read this book if you want to learn how to talk about race, how to engage with a person of colour with real respect, empathy and a willingness to interrogate your conscious and unconscious biases and assumptions, and to begin doing more to change your attitudes and actions, as well as those around you.
Written tight as a logical proof and with a careful delivery so that the bad news can be heard by we who need to hear it most. A concrete and highly actionable discussion, reinforced with evidence and examples to make sure that the reader can connect. My fellow white folks: you need to read this. And as the introduction advises, sit with your discomfort when it arises. Even those of us who are trying have a lot to learn. Ms. Oluo has done us the favor of making this piece of our education affordable, and not very long.
I am going to list out the chapters that I loved the best, everything that is not mentioned does not mean that I didn't enjoy it, I just loved these topics the most while reading.Chapter One: "Is it really about race?"-I love that Oluo breaks it down for people that seem to think that a Utopia United States that would fully embrace socialism will somehow make racism go away is not a thing.
Oluo goes into her own personal history about her hair and about people who think that just cause they saw Chris Rock's "Good Hair" they are now the end all be all of knowing what black men and women deal with with regards to their hair.
It's a call for everyone to stop being bound by white supremacy, by classism, ableism, sexism and all the other divides we cling to in order to feel superior to others, in order to reap the most benefits from society by making sure those benefits don't end up with others.Mostly, though, this is for white people.I hope it gets to the people who need this information because as I finished this up today, the news was rife with stories about Stephon Clark who was shot 20 times by police in his grandparent's backyard and stories about the white terrorist, labeled "quiet" or "normal" by surprised friends and family, who blew himself up after being caught for bombing black people in Austin, TX, for the past few weeks.People.Come on.Read this and, as Oluo says, let's all get a little uncomfortable.Sidenotes: Bahni Turpin narrates the audiobook.
Hands-down the most approachable and succinct book on this topic that I have read, and I've read quite a few. A primer on race that I wish could be required reading for the entire nation.
Ijeoma Oluo brings new energy and determination to a discussion that can feel so fraught and loaded and hopeless.
The book is presented both as a conversation and as manual, offering tips, guidelines, and discussion points to take the reader from the sidelines to the frontlines.
But Oluo, if she can get you to pick up the book, will engage from the opening pages with her confidence and competence, humor and honesty.
Whether it's microagression or police brutality, she presents the issue, why it matters, and what your responsibility is in responding and how to be a part of the conversation.
Go. Read. This. Book. Well written, informative, and concerned with the reader learning, not just the author being right. You should read this: • If you want to talk about racial topics better• If you’re great at talking about race• If you never want to talk about raceEveryone should read this book. This should be the very next book you read.
Everything she says is true and necessary, but it comes off more as a shallow lecture than anything new or different. I think it could be useful as a primer or to those who don't spend a lot of time reading about race.
This book felt like an Introduction to Race 101 class and I don't mean that in a bad way.
Ijeoma gave some helpful guidance on how to broach conversations on race in a more healthy and productive way.
She literally put bullet points on how to address certain situations.
I am usually left stunned to the point of speechlessness in those situations.
So the bullet points that Ijeoma outlines on how to address that were helpful and I'll definitely implement those tips next time it happens (because I assure you it will).
It’s hard to capture the magnitude of what Ijeoma Oluo has accomplished in So You Want To Talk About Race. She has managed to write a clear and concise instruction manual on how to talk about one of our country’s most difficult subjects, while neither alienating nor infantilizing the reader. This is an especially important book for the newly “woke” white person who recognizes our structural and systematic racism in the US, but is unsure (or even terrified) of how to act on this new knowledge. Pick this one up post haste.
A must-read for all white people, this book is very smart but very accessible. Oluo breaks down complicated issues like police brutality, the model minority myth, and tone policing (among others) masterfully, weaving together personal stories, detailed examples, and stats. This is definitely an entry-level book that feels aimed at white people and people of colour at the beginning of politicized learning. Excellent narration by Bahni Turpin like usual!
I'm a little torn on this book.
It certainly provides a lot of facts and advances a lot of arguments that white Americans (all of us, no matter how woke we think we are) need to hear.
In the current political climate a book like this is especially important.
Still, I think this book does what it sets out to do, and I would not discourage anyone from reading it.
In fact, if you're white, I would encourage you to read it despite its flaws.
And if you think you don't need to, that's probably a sign that you should.
Absolutely loved everything about this book!It opened my eyes on so many matters and made me strengthen my ideas and opinions on race related issues.I finished it with so MUCH thoughts in mind , and I feel like i can talk about it forever now ! Such an engaging and active reading indeed.HIGHLY recommend it!
5/5 STARS ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ I posted a lot about this author and this book recently, and after finishing this book, I can confidently say the praise I previously expressed is well deserved. This is absolutely a #mustread. The real world examples and suggestions make this book a real standout from others addressing the topic of race in America. I will be referencing this book for years to come.
5/5 STARS ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ I posted a lot about this author and this book recently, and after finishing this book, I can confidently say the praise I previously expressed is well deserved. This is absolutely a #mustread. The real world examples and suggestions make this book a real standout from others addressing the topic of race in America. I will be referencing this book for years to come.
This is so smart and honest and powerful and I want to get copies for everyone I know
Ok, after listening to Oluo’s talk, my concerns weren’t allayed.So the book is good, & worth reading.
Oluo seems to be saying we shouldn’t be talking to each other quite so much.
That is, white people shouldn’t bother people of color as much as they do.
I completely accept that I need to do a lot of listening in any such conversation.
Which is exactly why I can’t do all the talking to white people about people of color - I WILL get it wrong.I was hoping I was misinterpreting her book, and was eager to hear her speak today.
Ijeoma Oluo's book is an instruction manual, an autobiography, and a collection of incredible essays all rolled into one.
She gives anyone interested in talking about race a manual.
It encourages white people to work through racist tropes and mistakes and gives POCs information on how to counter well-meaning but definitely racist arguments.
I found it to be a great mix of Oluo's on experiences alongside her analysis of cultural moments and explanations of common terms in digestible bites.
I enjoyed that she ended most chapters in listed recommendations.
It is definitely a book I imagine I will look back to often!
Ijeoma Oluo has surpassed expectations with this monumental masterpiece which deconstructs race with insight and clarity for all to better understand and address these issues!
It's exciting and I can't wait to share this book with other white people trying to figure out what tools to reach for to be most effective at actually creating change when it seems like a volunteer group is neglecting the needs of people of color, or when a friend makes a ""borderline"" racist joke, or when the conversation around police brutality comes back to "but there are so many good cops, too!" I would call this a 101-level resource in that it both doesn't assume much prior knowledge and includes an overview of many topics that could easily each have their own 200-page books, but it's one of the best I've had the privilege to read - both because of that clear actionability and simply because Ijeoma Oluo is a wonderful writer!
I kind’ve figured that I was going to devour this book.
I love pretty much everything that Ijeoma Oluo has written - whether that’s an expertly-written online article, a facebook post, or a tweet.
She is brilliant, so I was not at all surprised to absolutely love this book.
What I loved most about this book was how incredibly accessible it is; Oluo manages to break down scary-sounding concepts in the most easy-to-read way.
If you’re looking around at the state of the world and constantly asking, “but what can I DO about it?”, you need to read this and take it to heart.
There has been a spate of incredible literature from African American writers, and this book in particular, stands out because of its instructional, informative guide on tackling racism as a topic.From discussing how to approach the subject with others, to giving direct instructions for those who are willing to learn to change, there are few books out there that are as useful as Ijeoma Oluo's step by step process.Most of all, the introduction of intersectionality, micro-aggressions and the myth of the model migrant is absolutely vital.
Thanks to Netgalley and the publisher for providing me with a free copy of the book. This is such an important book. I’d go so far as to say it should be mandatory reading. It opened my eyes to so many aspects of race and privilege that I’ve been blind to. I’ll be recommending it to a lot of people.
I trust this friend and bookseller implicitly and when she handed me this book, I knew it was going to be good and now that I've finished it, I would dare say this book is essential reading for anyone engaged in racial justice and equity work.
Her list of places to start at the end of the book ensures that when this book goes back to the library or shelved on your bookshelf, you'll be inspired, nay, compelled to take action in your local communities and spheres of influence to do your part to chip away at racial oppression and discrimination.
You can read my full review here!
