https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/550840.The_Age_of_Revolution_1789_1848
Εξαιρετικός ο Hobsbawm. Ειδικά για κάποιον που δεν έχει σπουδάσει ιστορία, μαθαίνει πολλά. Μια πολύ καλή περιληπτική εικόνα της εποχής 1789-1848, της Γαλλικής και της Βιομηχανικής επανάστασης, των πολέμων, της ειρήνης, της εκβιομηχάνισης, των γραμμάτων, των τεχνών, της κοινωνικής προόδου κτλ. Σπουδαίο βιβλίο, το πρώτο της τετραλογίας. Έχω διαβάσει και το δεύτερο της σειράς, Η εποχή του κεφαλαίου και τα θεωρώ απαραίτητη γνώση για όλους.
Having read this first in 2011, I decided to read it again.
I've learned a fair bit about the period since then, and so better appreciate the virtues and limits of this volume.
It contains a great deal of condensed analysis - hence it is rich, but often dry.
For all his Marxism, Hobsbawm was very much a bourgeois Brit.
There is also the business of Hobsbawm's defense of Stalinism.
(Hard to imagine a better, more thoughtful, more thoroughly digested and original survey of a period which I wanted and needed to know much more about.)
This book is, I'm sure, an informative introduction to the interesting period between the first and second French Revolutions.
But it reads like a lecture, which is to say, it goes for narrative at the expense of detail.
The narrative is an interesting one, and Hobsbawm is evidently jumping-up-and-down thrilled to be sharing it with us, but I had hoped to learn more specifics.For instance, there is a section on the arts in which the author asserts that artists of the early 18th century were typically committed to revolutionary politics, noting such examples as Beethoven, Goethe, and Percy Shelley (he might have included Stendhal as well).
Kind of disconcerting.However, I've rated 4 stars because 1) i feel this sort of thing is very hard to avoid in history books, and there's very little other unpleasant opinion in the book 2) keeping in mine the above biases, it's a really good overview of the period.
Tries to cover general political history, scientific history, art history, economic history - obviously it does none comprehensively but it gives you a really good idea of where Europe particularly was at in the period and what sort of forces and ideas were involved in the changes that happened and makes me really want to learn more.
The gods and kings of the past were powerless before the businessmen and steam-engines of the present.Hobsbawm's survey of these twin explosions (French revolution, Industrial revolution) is a much more melodious affair than I had imagined.
The material is addressed in an almost symphonic manner: capitalism and its counterpoint.
The teetering aristocracy sees France go bankrupt defending our wee American democracy.
The involvement of moderates is crucial as they alone weren't burdened with the legacies of the French Revoluitonary excesses: all subsequent revolutions pause at this point, considering the penchant for Terror.
This largely the story of Britain and France.
I was referring to a few chapters of this tonight for something else when I remembered how excellent Hobsbawm really was. His writing is profound and precise. His biases are pronounced, but his method is still so valuable that most of social history today follows after him.
Άλλη μία από τις αναγνωστικές παραλείψεις μου αυτό εδώ το βιβλίο.
Ήθελα, βέβαια, να το διαβάσω αλλά λίγο δίσταζα φοβούμενος μήπως πρόκειται για κάτι "βαρύ" που απευθύνεται περισσότερο σε ειδικούς.
Τελικά αφού το διάβασα διαπίστωσα ότι αν και δεν είναι ένα συμβατικό ιστορικό έργο και σίγουρα είναι αρκετά περίπλοκο και απαιτεί ο αναγνώστης να έχει κάποιες βασικές γνώσεις, στην πραγματικότητα είναι κάτι αρκετά κατανοητό που αναλύει με σαφή τρόπο από πολιτική σκοπιά όλα αυτά που συνέβησαν σε αυτήν τη χρονική περίοδο με την οποία ασχολείται.
Μπορώ, δηλαδή, να επιβεβαιώσω αυτό που πιστεύουν πολλοί ότι πρόκειται για ένα από τα σπουδαιότερα ιστορικά βιβλία που γράφτηκαν ποτέ.
Creo que no fue un libro para mí, sin embargo reconozco en todo lo que vale los conocimientos del autor de los cuales pude aprender algo y llegar a comprender un poquito más el desarrollo del mundo hasta nuestra época actual.
Pero en fin, el libro no nos habla únicamente de economía y política ya que Eric Hobsbawm abarca espléndidamente todos los campos del conocimiento y actividad humana, así como su desarrollo y consecuencias para la humanidad en artes, ciencias, religión, movimientos obreros, agricultura, etc.
The main change occurred in the agricultural environment where agriculture will no longer be the engine of society but rather the work by means of machinery that generates an accumulation of capital.The Industrial Revolution brought with it the centralization of productive process in the hands of a person who will be the boss, where the goal will be to make a profit.
The growth of the cotton industry was so necessary to supply the demands and generated the capital that England needed for its revolution which, according to the author, alludes to the French Revolution, was also of an economic and social nature.Also other small things contributed little by little to the change of the modes of production as a greater utilization of the iron like the fuselage and the lamination.
This book was both challenging and very interesting, not only because it deals with an immensely dense and troublesome era, but because of the way it is dealt with: in an structured manner and with the sensible rigorousness only a great historian like E.
I must warn the reader that some previous knowledge (not too much, but definitely some) is required, otherwise the long sentences will be intolerable and you may find yourself constantly stopping your reading to search for a term or a name; a terrible reading experience.
I've seen far too many reviews on goodreads of books in which the reviewers make a statement of how they "didn't like this novel; the author divulged too much" or, "I found it to be overally dull and difficult to read".
However, the list above is far from exhaustable and many reviewers may choose to rate a book lowly as a result of their poor reading experience.
Or maybe - more likely - said book (and this applies SO heavily to non-fiction / historical based work) just wasn't the right fit for the reader and, despite a rough read, the reviewer could think of a few other people who might like said books particular style more  than the reviewer themselves.
This three part series by Eric Hobsbawm is indispensable for understanding the modern world.
How could I have gone through life without understanding the industrial revolution and its interplay with the French Revolution, or European reaction, or the Napoleonic wars, or the revolutions throughout the first part of the 19th century, or the onset of imperialism, or how all of those things impacted art and science?
Hobsbawm can have a be a bit too much of a Marxist view of history for me at times, but overall, I'd say these three books are the most important history books I've ever read.
Although it is nearly 50 years since this was first published it remains one of the superb histories of the modern age, tracing social, economic, political, cultural and economic developments and influences of the Industrial and French Revolutions – that is, the making of the bourgeois world.
It is nearly 30 years since I first read this and it retains its power, its awe inspiring synthesis, and fully deserves its status as one of the classics of modern history (although it is disturbing that this edition includes praise for Hobsbawm from the terribly conservative Spectator, calling his one of the world’s greatest living historians).
الكتاب يتكلم عن الثورة الفرنسية ومعاصرتها الثورة الصناعية البريطانية والظروف التي أدت لهما وشكل أوروبا في ذلك العصر لفهم الظروف السياسية والاجتماعية والثقافية والاقتصادية التي أدت إلى الثورة وتأثيرها على أوروبا بشكل خاص وعلى الدول الأخرى الخاضعة للتأثيرات الأوروبية وتلك الواقعة تحت الاستعمار الأوروبي والقوى الأخرى مثل الامبراطورية الصينية والولايات المتحدة الأمريكية، والكتاب هو محاولة فهم وتحليل وليس تأريخ لذلك يفضل أن يكون لدى القارئ إلمام بسيط بالثورة الفرنسية حتى يستوعب التحليل بشكل أفضل، كما أحب الإشادة بالترجمة وشرح المصطلحات في آخر الكتاب.
Changed the way I see the modern world.
It covers the dual-revolutions of the late 18th Century in Europe; we have both the first spark of the British economic Industrial Revolution starting around 1780, Britain being the only country in the world to have had the capital ability to develop a revolutionary method of production that led it to become the 'Workshop of the World' - the flames of which allowed it to conquer overseas markets via colonialism (India, West Indies and Southern USA) - just think raw cotton and sugar imports and manufactured cotton goods as exports - in a nutshell, and also the political French Revolution of 1789, just a decade later (not to mention the American War of Independence which Hobsbawms book briefly mentions, but still just as important).
El nacimiento de la Modernidad, del Estado Nación Moderno, del intercambio internacional -como lo conocemos hoy, aunque a pequeña escala-, de las instituciones burguesas de reglamentación y sistematización, etc.Este libro no cuenta con una narración cronológica de los hechos, sino con una disgregación de las materias a analizar para hacerlas más simples.
Wallerstein nos iluminará en "El Estado Absolutista"-, es la única carencia que me puedo imaginar.Al respecto del libro, Hobsbawm relata magistralmente -e impregna en el lector- su tesis que la modernidad es el resultado de un doble proceso revolucionario, la revolución política-Francesa y la revolución industrial-Británica.
As a product of the public education system, this book unquestionably cleaned my clock. The preconditions of the modern world are laid out, configured, and reconfigured with such precision, clarity, and ocassional flare that I could actually feel my brain humming like the filament in the Bright Idea Bulb. Thank you, Mr. Hobsbawm
Although they followed different trajectories, bourgeois liberalism lay at the heart of both.To begin with, Britain was the first country in the world to industrialize, in part because its political system was already geared to the ideals of economic expansion and private profit.
The transition to industrial capitalism was exceptionally hard on “the labouring poor,” inasmuch as it completely transformed their traditional cosmology.For its part, the French Revolution provided the world with a vocabulary of bourgeois liberalism.
Thus “the period of the dual revolution saw both the triumph and the most elaborate formulation of the middle-class liberal and petty bourgeois radical ideologies, and their disintegration under the impact of the states and societies they had themselves set out to create .
هذا كتاب لا غناء لمضطلع بمعرفة لحظة التحول الخطيرة في تاريخ البشرية، تلك التي سلمت مشعل الحضارة ومقادة التاريخ الأمة الأوروبية إلى وقتنا، وتلتها فيما بعد تغيرات اجتماعية عامة في الجغرافيا والسكان وفي الفكر والفن والعلوم ..
وكاتبه هو المؤرخ اليهودي الشهير إريك هوبزباوم الذي عكف على دراسة التاريخ الأوروبي بمراحله هذه بهدف وصف مساروصفا يشعر بهذه التغييرات..
وهذا أول تلك السلسلة التي تبتد~ بوصف الثورة الفرنسبة إلى عصر الانفجار الثوري سنة 1848 في أنحاء أوروبا والذي آل في مآلاته إلى نظام عالمي جديد ودولة حديثة ومفهوم جديد للتاريخ ...
ووصفه لهذه الحقبة وصف شمال يبتدؤه بوصف الثورة الصناعية والفرنسبة وتبعاته الاقتصادرية والسياسية والديمغرافية، ومن ثم أثرها على العلوم والفنون ...

A brisk canter through the fifty year period that shunted in the railway age of slum tenements and industrial over-production. The narrative is not too overburdened with facts (each chapter is supported by footnotes), just the odd reassuring stylistic idiosyncrasy.
Hobsbawm is a master historian who brilliantly documents and analyses the world in his scrupulously researched trilogy from a British/Eurocentric perspective from the French Revolution to WWI.
It delves into the impact of the Industrial and French revolutions impact on everything from formation of the US Republic to impact to the daily life of the working poor.
In summary this is an education and not full pleasure reading, but fully gratifying for those seeking to self educate while gaining an intelligent perspective on our past and present world.
My objective is to finish all three knowing the ultimate pleasure is the challenging process resulting enhanced knowledge and critical thinking ability.
Tackling the tumult of 1789 to 1848 in Europe, Hobsbawm somehow manages to summarize the transformative political, social, and economic forces that swept the continent while not losing sight of his original argument: the French and Industrial Revolutions, “the Dual Revolutions” as he calls them, metamorphosed European society, and their repercussions in turn created the modern world.
Critics respond that the point is hardly novel, but Hobsbawm’s explication of the grassroots social revolution, while never losing the grand political narrative, is what sets this work apart.
Perhaps a single line from the book summarizes it well.
Eric Hobsbawm's The Age of Revolution, 1789-1848 is an incredible work of history.
It is the author's contention that, in that period, there were essentially two revolutions: The French Revolution and its aftermaths and the Industrial Revolution, which changed the face of society, especially in Europe and the United States.This is not one of those history books that give you a series of events and dates.
This dual revolution instead turned countries from an agricultural/farmer economy to the beginnings of an industrial/proletarian economy.
It is quite evident that Hobsbawm is a socialist, but then, so am I, more or less.One result is that The Age of Revolution is more abstract than most histories and more difficult to read.
عصر الثوره للمؤلف إريك هوبزباوم و له ايضا عصر الامبراطوريه و عصر رأس المال و عصر التطرف هذه المؤلفات
أستطاع المؤلف بسرد شيق ومسهب توثيق مراحل الثورة في فرنسا وإلى العوامل التي أفضت إلى حدوثها في 1789 مرورأ إلى 1848 عند قيام جمهورية فرنسا الثانية، وما حدث بين هذين العامين من صراعات مابين مريدي الجمهورية والملكية ومابين المحافظين واللبراليين وعلاقاتها الأصيلة بمبدأ التوزيع العادل للثروة لتحقيق العدالة الإجتماعية والتشكيل السياسي المناسب للوصول لتحقيقها.
كتاب شيق وغني بالمعلومات ويظهر فيه بوضوح خلفية المؤلف المؤيد لمبادئ الإشتراكية ونقمه على الرأسمالية وما سببته من مشاكل أجتماعية ومن نسف لمبدأ التوزيع العادل للثروة، وحيث يمهد للجزء الثاني من السلسلة والتي هي بعنوان عصر رأس المال 1848 – 1875م.كتاب أنصح بقراءته للمهتمين بالتاريخ.
أول جزء في الرباعية التاريخية لإريك هوبزباوم.المؤلف قدر بسرد شيق وممفصل انه يوثق مراحل الثورة في فرنسا بدايةً بالعوامل التي أدت لحدوثها في 1789 ولحد عصر الانفجار الثوري في اوربا سنة 1848 و اللي حصل في الوقت ده من صراعات بين طرفين النزاع مريدي الجمهورية والملكية وكمان المحافظين واللبراليين وعلاقاتها الأصيلة بمبدأ التوزيع العادل للثروة لتحقيق العدالة الإجتماعية. وتأثير ده كلّه علي شكل العالم اللي احنا شايفينه دلوقت.. it has all started back then.كتاب عظيم فشخ. لمؤرخ عظيم فشخ.
Como escrever um livro de história! Com as definições e mapas, com limitações assumidas, mas com os factos, referidos e analisados, tentando mostra-los a todos e dando uma ideia do estudo feito. É um livro de divulgação que não trata o leitor como um imbecil ou cai no erro de ser pretensioso.
All must read this.Append: No way one can begin to understand the modern world unless one has read Hobsbawn.
