https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/530903.In_Search_of_the_Miraculous
In this book, Ouspensky meets up with Gurdjieff, a self-professed esoteric teacher.
In other words, we can all exist quite well without becoming truly conscious, just going about our lives in the ordinary way.
Few people are actually truly conscious, which is something like being fully aware of ourselves at all times, not being lulled into stupors by our lives.There are in fact many I's, not just one, as when we refer to ourselves in the first person.
We actually require higher emotional energy to become conscious, and negative emotions drain us of this.All-in-all this book is quite good because Ouspensky tells the story of his search for, meeting and breaking with this enigmatic character.
Having read just about everything written by or about Gurdjieff, Ouspensky, Collin, Orage, Nicoll, and countless disciples, spin-offs, Sufis, etc., etc., and having been drawn by them into spending years in a Gurdjieff "school," and being familiar with the traditions on which the Gurdjieff approach was based, I take a lot of the "fourth way" material with a large grain of salt.
In fourth way groups, duping people seems to be a point of pride.) Even groups that are not necessarily exploitative or fraudulent tend to attract people who especially like the idea of being "esoteric," to use a term Ouspensky used, but which was far more appropriate eighty years ago than it is today.
Way too much esoteric stuff for my tastes. Some paragraphs were interesting, but the rest became a diagonal read. I would suggest Charles Tart's "Waking Up", which sums up the essence of G.'s awakening methods (most prominently self-observation and self-remembering), if you want to get practical.
This book is a treasure trove for anyone wishing to know more about the Gurdjieff work. My copy of it is littered with underlined sentences, enneagrams, scribbled notes on will, being and function, and notes on octaves and self-observation. Is this an easy read? Easier than Gurdjieff, certainly, but so jam-packed with useful information, that it needs to be read over the course weeks, or even months. In these pages you will learn the way of the fakir, the monk, and the yogi, and, with a little luck, something about your own impermanent "I."
But the book becomes more and more obtuse and really goes downhill after Ouspensky introduces this strange pretend chemistry that's way too precise and detailed to not be taken literally.
Although this book was endorsed by Gurdjieff, it seems odd that the system insists on understanding being difficult to attain and then Ouspensky goes and puts large swathes of it in an easily digestible, 350-page novel.
It stands in great contrast to Gurdjieff's own Beelzebub's Tales.Having said all that, some of the ideas in this book are brilliant, like the concept of remembering oneself.
Gurdjieff's talks about attaining true consciousness reminds me of David Foster Wallace's famous speech 'This is Water'.
This book is a good introduction to Gurdjieff's teachings, presented in a clear and understandable way by the author, who was a student of Gurdjieff himself from 1915 to 1924.
Interspersed with this are some interesting personal observations of how Gurdjieff conducted his practice and any special effects of the teachings that the student Ouspensky experienced (which is very little).
Ouspensky appears at first attractively somewhat on the side of scepticism rather than blind faith, and seems honest, dutifully focused on understanding and practicing the teachings.
Probably one of the best summaries of the whole of Gurdjieff's teachings, and also a nice map of the whole 'generally accepted' story of Gurdjieff and Ouspensky's work.
The best parts can be found in regards to self-observation, self-remembering, and the notion of 'man as a machine'.
The worst parts involve ridiculous theories about the universe's origins, strange interpretations for chemical interactions and how they fit in with made-up conceptual models like the 'Octaves', 'Law of three', 'energy transformation', and other not-very-useful conceptual theories.
This is the most dangerous book you will ever read if your world is filled with sacred old ideas you have never questioned. A masterpiece. I am still reading it after twenty years.
Gurdjieff was a practical man, likely a Sufi master.
This was my first encounter with Gurdjieff, and though I certainly recommend his own writings as well, this book has served as a perfect introduction for many people in the last half century.Own a copy - begs multiple reads.(Some argue that in the Western esoteric tradition, Gurdjieff was the one true master keyholder, far surpassing Crowley, Blavatsky or any other of the western guru-types for the depth and clarity of both his teachings and his being.)
One of the most valuable books I've ever read, multiple times. A must for anyone even remotely interested in the Fourth Way.
Hard to rate, but giving it five due to the rarity of the nature of the Fourth Way (or does that mean I should have given it Four stars? lololol), as well as Ouspensky’s place of special closeness with its founder, Gurdjieff. A most interestingly-writ biography of not just Gurdjieff and his teachings, but of Ouspensky himself and the unavoidable intertwining of a master and his pupil. The style makes you feel as though you, too, are traveling by train through the Caucasus alongside its author.
I didn't finish reading this book.
For that reason I hesitated to offer a review, but I feel obligated to do so anyway.The reason I failed to finish this book (believe me, I tried several times) is that it was an immense disappointment.
When you take "everything" as your objective, and then flavor your route to that objective with a complex system of changes in focus, apparent dead-ends in thinking, and a multitude of different approaches in descriptive terminology, you wind up disappointing people who have just come from reading one of the most "miraculous" accounts ever written in Tertium Organum.
An indispensible introduction to and explication of the philosophical/psychological/spiritual system brought to the West by Gurdjieff in the first half of the 20th century.
The Russian mathematician and philosopher Ouspensky had been a spiritual seeker for many years before running into Gurdjieff in Moscow.
It changed his life forever.
The ideas are dificult for most people to acept and dificult for those who accept to understand fully.
The book is dense and deserves several readings and study over a period of years.
I first read it more than 25 years ago, in college, and reread it recently and will be rereading it for years to come.
Sometimes I agreed, sometimes disagreed, sometimes I learned something, sometimes I didn't understand at all, sometimes I felt angry, sometimes I tried to analyse it, then I skipped some pages, then there was something wise again, then when I understood I became frustrated, then I continued and tried to understand the enneagram, then I thought I did but I didn't, then I thought Ouspensky is just making stuff up, then I reminded myself that I don't have to understand everything but it's good that I got something valuable out of it.
I would normally not have picked up a book like In Search of the Miraculous, were it not that this one is referenced by the Dutch conceptual artist Bas Jan Ader, who named one of his art works after it. I read it quite a while ago and I still want to return to it, it's quite a strange book and some aspects of it - its readings of Biblical stories from the angle of Eastern philosphy for example, esp. 'set thine house in order' - have stuck with me over the years.
This is also one of my most favorite books. I don't know anyone who understands everything who reads it, however what you do understand will change your life. This work is brilliant in the way that the information is described. It is a very mental book. It will require you to think while reading it.
best quotes so far:"time is breath""All at once I remembered I had forgotten to remember."My Dad recommended this metaphysics/physics series to me. I accidentally started with the last one, but now I am going to go back to the first. Pretty awesome stuff.
brilliant book, explaing the forces and laws that govern the universe and mankind
Purtroppo non è che abbia capito molto di questo insegnamento perché è quasi tutto inverosimile, poco probabile, e alcune cose sono dette ma non dette perché i suoi allievi erano comunque tenuti a mantenere alcuni segreti.
Le cose che non ho assolutamente capito e che mi sembrano fuori da ogni comprensione sono: la legge dell'ottava, che non saprei nemmeno come spiegare ma che ha a che fare con le note musicali.
Devo aggiungere però che Gurdjieff, onestamente e umilmente, non considerava questo insegnamento come suo, ma più di una volta afferma che lui è soltanto un Maestro e nemmeno l'unico.
I couldn't finish it.
I had two chapters left, and now I see what the reviewers below mean.
He goes on and on about different hydrogens, and starts to really make the most ridiculous claims.
I really enjoyed his "New Model OTU" and still want to read his Tertium Organum, but I couldn't finish this.
I really wanted to, but it became so dry that I am more than willing to admit that there may have been diamonds waiting for me in these last two chapters, but those are for another mining session.
I'd been interesting in learning more about Gurdjieff for a while, with the vague understanding that he was a Greek / Armenian turn-of-the-century mystic with some schools and some teachings.
This is perhaps the best introduction to him & his school of thought, written by an acquaintance and later follower and popularizer, P.D. Ouspensky.The book is mostly a recounting of Gurdjieff's lectures with a loose scaffolding of autobiographical and historical details, and is quite telling.
According to Ouspensky and others, he had a very magnetic personality.His psychology is at times interesting and is probably what attracts people to this system in the first place.
"I had nothing to say against G's methods except that they did not suit me...it was not my way." I liked some of Gurdjieff's ideas and found others to be unacceptable for me.
He believed that there are different levels of consciousness and that most people are not able to reach the higher ones.
This one of the reasons that both Gurdjieff and Ouspensky looked mostly to the East to find the "Miraculous", a path to higher levels of consciousness.Apparently, Ouspensky did find the "Miraculous" but he can not explain what it is nor how he obtained it.
I had this book on my shelf for years, and had read about Gurdjieff from other authors, but never from one so close to G.
as Ouspensky.
I had imagined this book would be a hard one to finish, but I actually raced through it and found it vastly interesting.
But also because of the sketches of the man Gurdjieff himself and how he went about with his work and students.
Set against World War I and the coming of the bolsheviks this book reads as a wonderful tale of history in turmoil and intense personal discovery.
In Ouspensky's 'In Search Of The Miraculous' the reader is introduced to the authors first meeting and following time spent with the enigmatic Greek/Armenian spiritual teacher Gurdjieff. Throughout the book Ouspensky shares the many conversations and teachings of Gurdjieff which reads much like a journal, covering many parts of his teaching. Most of the book is fairly easy to follow apart from a few examples of his cosmic theory which can get quite complex. I really enjoyed the book, it was like following them on thier journey.
It's all good when you find your own ideas in the books you read even if they were written half a century before you were actually born. "Humanity neither progresses nor evolves. What seems to us to be progress or evolution is a partial modification which can be immediately counterbalanced by a corresponding modification in an opposite direction. Humanity, like the rest of organic life, exists on earth for the needs and purposes of the earth. And it is exactly as it should be for the earth's requirements at the present time."
This is one of those books that need more than one reading. It touches plenty of areas of human life & mind or character and some toughts were not easy to understand or even to accept at first reading. 3/5 stars as I was surprised to find out it the book captures not Ouspenskys but Gurdjieffs toughts & teaching, so the book title is a bit confusing. However, all in all, no regrets for reading this book, which took my mind to explore some very new or uncommon views.
This is one of those books that need more than one reading. It touches plenty of areas of human life & mind or character and some toughts were not easy to understand or even to accept at first reading. 3/5 stars as I was surprised to find out it the book captures not Ouspensky´s but Gurdjieff´s toughts & teaching, so the book title is a bit confusing. However, all in all, no regrets for reading this book, which took my mind to explore some very new or uncommon views.
this book is kinda out there and fairly rough spiritual-esque reading. the guy who wrote it was a student of gi gurdjieff and this book is about his teachings. basically if the dalai lama or buddhists were in touch with the world they would be somewhat a mix of this guy and krishnamurti. this dude however is much more worldy than k-murda...
This is an extraordinary mind-altering book, if you allow it to be.You cannot truly understand G.'s teachings from your own perspective. You have to see it from the perspective that G. wants you to see it from. You have to relinquish your current thinking and surrender to his view, then you can see the truth that lies behind the illusions...
it stopped me thinking of ader's art just in terms of the dreaminess of it and got me considering the really strong conceptual values behind it.the book talks abt ader using the romantic figure of the sad loner as a way to challenge the belief that conceptual art has to disavow emotional impact.
Wow - I had to read it 3 times this year and it is still standing on my table. Please, read it and keep an open mind. I cannot tell you more than has been said already, except that it has blown my mind.
