https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29749090-batman
“You have a heavy heart, for someone with everything.” It is these kind of books that perfectly fit the awful (and unhelpful) three star rating. Batman: Nightwalker is a completely fine, average, easy and forgettable read. It is reasonably well-written, as we would expect from Marie Lu, but I would point new readers towards her The Young Elites or Warcross before urging them to read this one. This new stream of superhero fiction - and we can expect more in 2018 - caters to current market trends
In particular, Madeleine, who is somehow linked to a gang who call themselves Nightwalkers - and are currently picking off Gotham's most powerful and wealthy citizens one by one.Maybe this book will work for readers completely unfamiliar with Bruce Wayne and the Batman story - though it contains just enough nods to the canon to make me wonder if it will - but for anyone who's seen a few movies or read a few comics, it is not interesting, exciting, or unique enough to elevate itself beyond the fanfiction level.It's a short book and there are a number of pacing issues.
"Was he good? He had hurt those he loved before; he had disobeyed orders a hundred times over." Me in response:Batman, as we all know, is one of the most morally grey superheroes out there. Practically every incarnation of the Caped Crusader inevitably ends up knee-deep in a moral dilemma, struggling to define justice, wrestling with his inner demons, or likely all three at once. Gotham City doesn't have a prison; it has Arkham Asylum, representative of Batman's internal turmoil. Plus, he liter
Me in response:Batman, as we all know, is one of the most morally grey superheroes out there.
Whenever I tried to focus and read instead of skim (which I confess to already doing very early on) I could feel my attention slipping away like grappling with a wet bar of soap.
All I know is I felt like I was reading a well-trodden story with little to distinguish it from the competition.
When Bruce helps out the police stopping one of the villains in the Nightwalkers gang, well he has to do community service for helping by crashing his car and what not.
This is where he meets Madeline who is actually with the Nightwalkers prior to Bruce's fiasco.
But things are not all they seen with Madeline.
Bruce is still trying to find out information about the Nightwalkers.
You are not under attack from the Nightwalkers.
You are under attack from your own rich, and their corrupt system of blood money.
Anyway, Happy Reading!
Mel ❤️MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading ListAMAZON: REVIEW
Me: I am so over Bruce Wayne. He means nothing to me.Bruce Wayne: *smolder and angst*Me: …Me: …Me: Dammit. So basically...Batman is better than you.Batman doesn't have time for your 'If Superman and Batman fight, who wins' theories. Batman doesn't have time for this s***.Batman is sexy and he knows it.Batman is always the most stylish man in any room.Batman makes angsty look good.Batman wins at life.Yes, I am complete Batman trash. I'd go as far as to say that Bats is probably the most interesti
Me: I am so over Bruce Wayne.
He means nothing to me.Bruce Wayne: *smolder and angst*Me: …Me: …Me: Dammit.
So basically...Batman is better than you.Batman doesn't have time for your 'If Superman and Batman fight, who wins' theories.
Batman doesn't have time for this s***.Batman is sexy and he knows it.Batman is always the most stylish man in any room.Batman makes angsty look good.Batman wins at life.Yes, I am complete Batman trash.
I'd go as far as to say that Bats is probably the most interesting character ever - and the only male Superhero I like.
I must share this.
The darkness was his ally, not his enemy. Whoa Nelly, back up comic books cause Marie Lu has completely revamped this genre. A teenage Bruce Wayne must deal with: A) the family fortune B) his blooming company C) friendships falling out  D) the cell of Nightwalkers terrorizing the cityAll without losing his mind or failing classes.  Bruce watched his friend go. Then he glanced at Alfred. "We need to make a pit stop.""Where?""WayneTech."Alfred shot him a wary glance. "Lucius would warn you none o
Bruce always thought he was pretty good at reading people but this girl is a complete mystery.And as he circles closer to her web, he can't help but wonder, what would it be like to be caught?
Marie Lu, you absolutely brought it to the table with this one.I did not think I would ever enjoy a retelling of Batman so much.
You'd think a quasi-origin story (titled Batman: Nightwalker) that there'd be
That and (like most renditions), we never get a concrete answer why Bruce would rather invest in violence and weapons....rather than after-school care, adult education classes, local kids clubs...things that bring together communities and helps prevent further violence.
As good as the story is this is Bruce Wayne's story, this is not quite an origin but a before he was Batman story.One of the things that made Batman different from almost every other character is Superman take off his cape and put on the glasses and lives his life as Clark Kent, Spider-man hangs up the mask and faces his unsuccessful attempt to be Peter Parker (I am talking new Marvel Universe Parker here), but Batman is the true identity Bruce Wayne is a resource for him.
There some familiar characters and couple of new ones, but I was surprised how little Alfred was used in the book.This is a good modernization of a story taking a different direction to the traditional Batman.
It was fun, but it was also a bit like lifting a spoonful of cereal to your mouth and not paying attention and tipping it down your shirt.
I mean it TRIES to be dark and edgy but is keeping it sanitised for the kids so it was a bit weird at times.I liked seeing familiar names appear.
Basically Alfred is just a stressed mother, doing his best.I found the actual plot a little bit unrealistic.Says me…reading about A MAN BAT.
It was interesting seeing little Brucey without his batwings, but not just fell a bit flat for me.
HERE FOR THIS, MARIE LU!
This is not an important story, because this is not the story of how Bruce Wayne became Batman.
This is his coming of age, and an account of the first time his heart blossoms for someone.
I doubt I’ll ever have a butler, but if in another life I do, I want an Alfred replica.
Bruce is sometimes one-dimensional, seeing that here and there his personality fails to come off the page (perhaps it would have been different if the narration had been in the first person) but he has a true heart, courage and determination.Madeleine is… a cat-less version of Catwoman.
growing up with older brothers means:1. always having someone to drive you around2. being perpetually obsessed with superheros (mainly batman) until like the age of 14I think I was a batman stan from the very beginning (superman is so boring and predictable, fite me on this (ง •_•)ง) so I was SUPER excited and also terrified to read this book. Thank goodness marie lu is a queen and loves to slay my existence Also I legit spent over an hour making this mood board someone send help - This book was
THAT’S how invested I was in the book-	I listened to the audiobook and even that was fantastic, the narrators were gREAT-	ALFRED BEING DAD GOALS ON EVERYONE I LOVE HIM SO MUCH-	I’M EVEN ATTACHED TO LUCIUS WHY AM I LIKE THIS-	My only complaint will come from the ending-	It threw me off for //spoilery// reasons and I felt like it could have been done SO MUCH BETTER but (view spoiler)[ the fact that madeline lived??
He didn't know everything his future held for him, not yet, but he knew that whatever it was, it would remain here.It looked like a place worth protecting.It looked like home.It's rare that I start reviewing with a quote pulled directly from the last page of a book, but in this case I found it appropriate for multiple reasons.
We all know who Bruce Wayne grows up to be and so it's all hunky dory and fine.Maybe it was a case of perfect timing, but I had an absolute blast reading this novel!
You're the kind that comes out brighter.If you're looking for a fun, quick read meant for pure entertainment, definitely pick this one up.
I want to start by saying that Batman is my LEAST favorite superhero. BUT... Marie Lu has made him a new favorite for me. I loved this story so much. The writing was clear, well paced and the dialogue fantastic. I flew through this book, dying to know the twists and turns. I adore this world, It really paints Gotham in that cloudly, dark mood that we all know. Marie Lu really knows how to weave a story and make it her own.I cried... laughed and also screamed in horror at some parts. I loved loved loved it.
This was gifted to me by my amazing, talented, and beautiful friend, Imogen, who I'm forever thankful for! Wonder Woman: Warbringer by Leigh Bardugo ★★★  “I can’t think of a story where the billionaire and the murderer end up happily ever after.”  I am not the biggest superhero fan, but I will admit I’ve always had a bit of a soft spot for Batman. And you all? I honestly loved this. Also, I’ve never read anything by Marie Lu before (I know, I can’t believe it either, honestly) but now I plan on
Also, I’ve never read anything by Marie Lu before (I know, I can’t believe it either, honestly) but now I plan on devouring everything, because I completely connected with this writing style and I never wanted to put this book down.
Especially Harvey Dent, like what a perfect and important way his character was depicted in this rendition.
Like, this book has so much good, and I truly loved this origin story more than words.
Also, Marie Lu not only solidified that Batman is seriously one of the best superheroes out there, she has made a new fan for life.
Everytime I finish a book, I just wanna announce to all of Goodreads THAT I'M BACK BITCHES But obviously that's a lie. I just have to admit to myself that I am not back yet, as much as I want to be. I still have two seasons left of Keeping of With The Kardashians to binge watch before I return to reading full time. But anyways, I finished a book! And I have some feelings about it. I will definitely be writing a review in between Kardashian  episodes, so keep am eye out for that.  Prereview: This
Everytime I finish a book, I just wanna announce to all of Goodreads THAT I'M BACK BITCHES But obviously that's a lie.
I just have to admit to myself that I am not back yet, as much as I want to be.
I still have two seasons left of Keeping of With The Kardashians to binge watch before I return to reading full time.
But anyways, I finished a book!
I will definitely be writing a review in between Kardashian  episodes, so keep am eye out for that.
This cover This might just be my favorite cover of all time?
Killing this buddy read with the lovely Lily 💕
Only Madeline was a bit fun but her predicability ruined that.The plot was a major disappointment, I expected more from the book, like its Batman.
It had so much potential but the story went off the rails.
What ruined it is that the author pulled the same stunt she did in Warcross, by mentioning the villian and someone else in passing, with that it wasn't hard to figure out who is behind the Nightwalkers murders.
I know I know, most people are obsessed with him because he is an orphan and he is such a good guy and he has cool gadgets and he is super rich and chill and has a cave and talks in that raspy voice and stuff; but I guess, to me and strictly my opinion, I feel like he is some rich dude who got really bored with his heritage and decided to be a vigilante without "the call" to be one.
I'm sorry Marie, but expectations will be going waaay beyond the roof for this one particularly coz Batman is luv, Batman is lyf.
The existence of this book is quite an insult to Batman and this book reads like it was written by some third-ranked comic-script-writer who doesn't know enough of a thing about Batman and what he stands for.I just won't forgive Marie Lu or whoever else is responsible for reducing Bruce Wayne into a hapless young man who thinks with his dick instead of his brain (I know he is only 18 years old in this story, but it is still unforgivable), and the whole mother fucking nonsense about people doing community service in the fucking Arkham Asylum.
Gotham City, Arkham Asylum, Tall Handsome Dude With Nice Jawline And Unbearable Need To Save Everybody.This is already my second Marie Lu novel this year - I read Prodigy earlier this month - and probably not my last either.
I have a confession to make: until last year's releases of Wonder Woman and the Black Panther trailer I had no interested whatsoever in this Marvel/DC-related franchise.
I mean, how often can the world end just to be saved by some dude in a special suit?
The clichés that make up a Superman movie are uncountable.BUT then we have Wonder Woman, who rules.
Actual Rating: 2.25/2.5 stars "People get bored with your grief. They want something new to talk about. So you stop bringing it up, because you don't want to bore anyone" I can't say that I am satisfied nor that I am disappointed, I went into this not knowing what to expect except that it is a Batman story, and as mentioned before I am not a huge fan, I used to watch the cartoon show back in the days and always liked Alfred more than Batman...This only approved my love for Alfred and I dedicate
I can't say that I am satisfied nor that I am disappointed, I went into this not knowing what to expect except that it is a Batman story, and as mentioned before I am not a huge fan, I used to watch the cartoon show back in the days and always liked Alfred more than Batman...This only approved my love for Alfred and I dedicate this review for him!And if you know me well, you would know that I previously read all of Marie's works (All 9 books including this one) and they got pretty much high ratings from me.
lol)So in short: this was a typical Marie Lu book that could have been better were it not about Batman as the potential of the story was lost, if you have some free time, it would not hurt to read this as it was actually a pretty fast read...
“Two kinds of people come out of personal tragedy... You're the kind that comes out brighter.”  More like 2.5 starsWho'd say a story about Bruce Wayne/Batman could be so boring..I loved Wonder Woman: Warbringer and I had really high hopes for this book then because.. duh.. BATMAN. This story is about pre-Batman Bruce Wayne. The plot felt highly unrealistic and was predictable af. Because Bruce Wayne gets community service in Arkham Asylum. You see my problem here? He's a kid who does community
“Two kinds of people come out of personal tragedy...
You're the kind that comes out brighter.”
More like 2.5 starsWho'd say a story about Bruce Wayne/Batman could be so boring..I loved Wonder Woman: Warbringer and I had really high hopes for this book then because..
BATMAN.
This story is about pre-Batman Bruce Wayne.
Because Bruce Wayne gets community service in Arkham Asylum.
He's a kid who does community service in the most dangerous place in the whole Gotham.
Okaaaaaay.And then he meets a girl of his age locked there, who refuses to talk to anyone but Bruce.
After reading and loving "Wonder Woman: Warbringer" (the first in this DC Icons series), I didn't know what to expect with this one.
Also, Batman is my favourite 'superhero' (is he a superhero though?) so I was apprehensive and worried that I would have unrealistic expectations or be critical of this story.
I enjoyed this novel equally as much as I enjoyed Wonder Woman and it was all that I could hope for in a story about Batman.
More of Batman's story and more of the DC Icon novels as a whole.
No offence but this cover is literally so good and I'll fight on that Anyway u think I'm not gonna support the heck out of this book and the good sis Marie lu? Think again
If this wasn't a Batman book, it was okay. But being that it was I was a little disappointed in it especially since Marie Lu is the author.
Batman: Nightwalker was a good book and I definitely enjoyed it, but it just couldn't keep up with Leigh Bardugo's Wonder Woman.
What I loved the most about the first book in this series was how unique the story was and how Bardugo had just managed to glue me to my book because it was so grippig.
But don't get me wrong, I still liked the book even though it couldn't keep up with the first one.
This book was so well written and I definitely have to read some of her other books now!
I received an Advanced Reader’s Copy to participate in a blog tour.Thanks to JM @ Book Freak Revelations and the wonderful Penguin Random House, I was able to read Batman: Nightwalker months before its release date!
Just like Wonder Woman: Warbringer, Batman: Nightwalker is an alternate origin story of Bruce Wayne and we read about his life as he comes of age, inherits billions and WayneTech, and fall in love with someone who may only be using him.Marie Lu is a masterful writer especially when it comes to urban fantasy.
➳ 2 1/2 stars “You have a heavy heart, for someone with everything.” Well, this was … all right. Batman: Nightwalker is a decent book, I guess. But also a painfully average one. Painful especially, because I’d prefer not to associate words like the aforementioned, as well as “predictable”, “uninspired”, and “mediocre” with anything regarding Marie Lu. But, alas.There really isn’t much to say about the plot; Batman: Nightwalker tells the story of teenage Bruce Wayne, who—having turned eighteen re
Painful especially, because I’d prefer not to associate words like the aforementioned, as well as “predictable”, “uninspired”, and “mediocre” with anything regarding Marie Lu. But, alas.There really isn’t much to say about the plot; Batman: Nightwalker tells the story of teenage Bruce Wayne, who—having turned eighteen recently, and coming into his trust fund—one fateful night, in his eagerness to help justice along, gets himself sentenced to community service at Arkham asylum.
So you stop bringing it up, because you don’t want to bore anyone.”
To be quite honest, this book is the very definition of the word anticlimactic.“There was absolutely no reason to weep, Bruce thought as he ran.
I'll just start with this story has nothing to do with Batman.
This is a YA Romance novel with an action sequence thrown in at the end.
Bruce Wayne has just come into his trust fund as he turns 18.
Bruce gets in almost as much trouble as the crook and is sentenced to probation as a janitor at Arkham Asylum.
There he meets a recently captured assassin and begins a Silence of the Lambs type relationship with her with some young love thrown in.
Missing is Bruce's drive to become Batman.
He's not even inspired at the end of the book to go become Batman.
*** u n p o p u l a r o p i n i o n ***Meh. I'm probably the only person who doesn't like this cover. I don't like the yellow color, the city in the Bat symbol, or Bruce's side profile. It looks....fake? Rushed? But above all-- cheesy. Hate me, fight me, I don't care.Looks like all the DC Icon book covers are all heading down this route. All matching with the superhero behind their emblem. NNNGGGGHHHHH.But I'm still gonna read it because, duh, it's the B A T M A N.
