https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/109648.The_Far_Side_Gallery_2
In an age when everything seems sacred, immune to jests and teasing, a cartoonist dares to push the envelope, and gives Readers a small sanctuary to retreat to--actually, he ultimately reminds us of a time when nothing was sacred and everything was funny.
Whether it is aliens, scientists, animals, nerds, or the Old West, Gary Larson provides a memorable image that is sure to last at least the duration of a day.
Not to mention there is a pretty funny introduction provided by Uncle Stevie.
Sometimes you need a laugh. So I pulled this down off the shelf yesterday. Read it many times, as I have many of the other collections. But now we need a collection of all Larson's Trump work, if for no other reason than we can see Larson told us so decades ago, and consistently.
I'm not sure how Gary Larson gets away with all he gets away with.
What's that say about me - that I find big nose jokes and nuclear meltdown jokes funny?
Hopefully it doesn't mean that I'm a psychopath.The humor is in the details.I found this the most true in a cartoon with a bunch of scientists.
The caption: "Testing whether or not animals 'kiss.'" Prominently, in the center, there is a man kissing an aardvark.
A bunch of scientists are gathered around - two with clip boards, and one writing on a chalk board.
And so is Larson.
Maybe inappropriate.
Maybe not.
5.0 stars. Another priceless collection of Far Side cartoons. As I previously stated in my review of the First Far Side Gallery, The Far Side series is the funniest (and most clever) cartoon series ever put on paper and Gary Larson is a comic genius.
As always funny as all get out.
"When asked to describe the famous glass of water, there can only be 4 answers and they will reflect the character of the person, they are: a) half empty.
b) half full.
c) half empty, no...half full, ...I mean empty, ...what was the question?
d) hey, I ordered a cheeseburger!"-- Gary Larson Welcome to the bizarre and twisted world of Gary Larson.I will still stick to what I said before for The Far side Gallery(part1)"This is some serious shit.
Filled with Dark Humor and Situational Irony.Highly satirical and thought-provoking content .."It will show you some odd and surreal views of the world.
If you like Larson, you'll love this book. Chock full of humor at its finest. It's a keeper.
This great collection reflects Larson's oblique view of the world. His humor is playfully demented, and the simplicity of his drawings makes his messages universal --a Dr. Seuss for adults. This set had me literally laughing out loud at some of the cartoons, with very few 'weak' entries. If you need a little boost in your mood this is the book for you.
4 or 5? I finally went with 5. While I suppose Gary Larson may not suite everybody (and may be an aquired taste for some) he is flat funny. These oddly twisted and surreal views of the world haven't been equaled before or since. Staying power.
*2.5 stars This volume I enjoyed more than the first I read. I probably liked it more because my expectations had been adjusted. At first I expected it to induce me to laugh out loud.However, now I know that I should only prepare for the sort of thing that I might consider clever, or might think "heh, I see what you did there." I still prefer things that make me laugh though, which is why I didn't rate this too highly.
Never fails to tickle my humerus. I go back again and again.
Bought and read this at the same time as Berke Breathed's "Bloom County: Babylon." I don't think I've laughed so hard for an entire week. More hilarity from one of the comic masters.
Only added for inclusivity. Obviously Larson's comics will always be welcome, although some of them feel somewhat dated. Still, light years better than most comics being published today.
A classic.
Many of the same cartoons that I have seen in other Far Side books. Still they make me chuckle. Great calming bedtime reading in this era of Trump.
Gary Larson is a national treasure. I love when one of his cows or chickens is named Barbara.
lol
Seriously brilliant!
Clever
That's the sign of a good humour, it can skate the line the between rude and just plain mean and split your gut hilarious.While reading this book I found out how hard it is to describe a 'funny' situation without making is sound horrible.
This happened when my five year old asked what I was reading (and laughing at).
See all the people in the airplane are scared b/c they think they are going to crash..."From the eyes of a five year old these 'jokes' must look very different.This brings me to the deeper meaning of the book.
Comic Strip Review: The Far Side Gallery 2 by Gary LarsonThe Far Side was a daily single-panel newspaper comic that ran from 1980 to 1995, although reruns are common in newspapers.
Gary Larson’s offbeat comedy often features science fiction and horror concepts, as well as talking animals and cavemen.
Honestly, it’s hard to describe without giving specific examples.
For example, “the modern lion” shows lions using walkie-talkies to stalk their prey.
There’s an introduction by horror writer Stephen King that’s mildly funny.Gary Larson’s art, like many single-panel cartoonists’, is more “distinctive” than “good.” You know right away that you’re looking at a The Far Side cartoon.
Another large collection from Larson, collating several of the smaller books, this contains cartoons from 1980 through to 1984 (including one of the earliest, where a Mexican firing squad is interrupted by a woman in a blazing building who screams “fire!”).
This also contains one of the first Far Side cartoons I ever saw and fell in love with, where a horde of Viking raiders rush across a drawbridge and one looks in the moat and says “Oo!
Goldfish, everyone!
Goldfish!” An excellent collection, full of wit and invention and very highly recommended.
Gary Larson was the first author I read that clearly saw the world at a slightly different angle than everyone else - wry, dry, and scientific.
scientific.His characters are fat, plain to ugly, and often deeply flawed in common sense in some way that forms the punchline and offers subtle critiques of our absurdities and foibles.
Individually, they present amusing little comedic anecdotes, but in aggregate you get a pretty clear view of what Gary thinks human society.Plus some just randomly brilliant bits of comic genius.Unfortunately, plus some odd-ball comics that are just strange or unusual without being necessarily comical.
People have referred to me as a "cartoon psychic".
At least I think they have.
I often know what a comedian is thinking.So, of all the excellent Far Side cartoons I've seen as a young man, my mind always circles around the cartoon "Beware of Doug".
I used to think that the genius of the Far Side is that cartoon characters have exceptionally wide eyes and therefore long reaction shots.But I've recently read that Gary Larson credited growing up with a cruel older brother for his "paranoid sense of humour".
Just because a cartoon is funny doesn't mean it's not telling you something...http://www.flickr.com/photos/eclectip...
Oh, books of my past.I've had The Far Side Gallery books for as long as I can remember. I grew up reading these comics and giggling to myself. Every time I come back to them I understand some of the more 'adult' and scientific jokes and puns and the comics only get more enjoyable. This collection of five books is fantastic, and brings together all (?) or at least a significant amount of Gary Larson's work.
I remember being introduced to the Far Side by a very good friend after a heavy session of serious alcohol...I know that it's nothing to be proud of [but it felt good at the time], yet I have often wondered if my state of alcohol-induced giggles was entirely down to the Far Side...ANSWER = IT WAS....The books are outstandingly still funny.
As always, Gary Larson delivers. The Far Side Gallery is funny, provocative, and insightful, like all of Larson's books. Unfortunately, as with most comics strips, it's either all or nothing, love it or hate it. If you like Larson, then you are guaranteed to love this book. If you don't care for Larson...why are you here?
I was quite pleased to find this at my library. While I feel confident that I have seen all of these cartoons before, even memorized some of them, it is nice to be able to go through and actually make sure that I've read each book. If I had to guess I would say that I haven't, but now that I'm able to easily keep track of this, perhaps I will before the year is out!
Was sorting my books, and re-discovered my Gary Larson books. Only 3 of them, but they are classics and have withstood the test of time. Still laugh-out-loud funny. I could enjoy these cartoons anew every week.
I enjoyed the foreword by Stephen King. And the comics are generally up to Larson's normal standard. For some reason though this one seemed to have a greater amount of comics giving credence to the theory of evolution than other volumes.
