https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/190560.Design_for_the_Real_World
What are we to make of the fact that this book, itself a designed object, written with the methodological assistance of a flow chart process, with a direct intention to fill in a clear gap in socially-aware industrial design, is a mess with abrupt shifts in topic and sudden returns to a well-worn discussions?
In some ways, a current design education inherits the positive legacy of this book without the negative, able to unabashedly work on social problems with the kind of presentation we now expect.

This book changed the way I taught design.
and finishing individual chapters was daunting because material seemed arbitrary at times.
Many chapters, however, have snappy attacks on design/industrial design; every now and then there are great frameworks or explanations about design values that might stick with you long after reading.
If your values don't line up with this worldview, Papanek's at times confrontational tone will put you on the defensive rather than persuade.
. This is all acknowledged in the foreword, and I appreciate both the warning and leaving the flawed language as an indication of the times.
A quote that has struck me still, after reading this book, is that unlike other fields, designers try to create new problems so that they could construct their own elegant solution towards it.This reminds me of the fingerprint lock for mobile phones.
Nobody actually wanted fingerprint locks for mobile phones when they had number digit locks, there was no necessity, however, a need for this feature was created.The book continues along this line and explores a wide range of topics.
He also covers topics from bionics and biomimetics, which needs to pondered upon more deeply.
This is a must-read, not just for designers, but for anyone in a creative field.
A call for ethics and pride of what you put out in the world.
Something I've always admired about science (wrestling with responsibility), but hadn't seen in my field.
Well, here it is.The only drawback is that it was last updated in the 80s and so doesn't talk specifically about web design (focused more on physical product design).
If anyone knows of a good "updated" design book that talks about human ecology and social change for design in the internet age I'd love to hear about it.
If you want to design products, this book is a five. It's a bit dated in spots, but the author is dead so updates are tough. Many of the same issues still face us, crappy, wasteful buildings, poorly planned urban areas and shoddy consumer products along with the corporate apologists for this mess. Includes how to design thoughts and methods as well as old news.
"first-world" designers teaching poor "third-world" designers how to think/design... good luck to the "first-world" people who read this book and believe this is the current design reality in the world...
Brilliant. It will change my teaching practice fundamentally.
Very bold thesis statement! Designers have a strong professional and even moral obligation to create items that are functional, aesthetic and well made (points for ecological sensitivity, too). They should not contribute to mindless consumerism through overbuilding or churning out endless variations of the same essential product. Wonderful sentiments indeed.
In this book, Victor Papanek denounced marketing-driven design (e.g. obsolescence) and exposed a set of issues by irresponsible design - tawdry, frivolous, useless, unsafe, waste, pollution.In the 2nd half of the book, he claimed that design should be Integrated.
Design must place the problem in its social perspective.
Design must consider social groups, classes and societies.
A designer should be a generalist instead of a specialist.Additionally, he discussed innovation thinking and advocated that a design team should be cross-functional to attempt Integrated Design.
This could be viewed as the origin of Design Thinking.After all, design must be social and moral responsible.
A kind of terrifying read once you get through it and realize that, while some things have improved, many of the most toxic elements that Papanek rails against have gotten significantly worse.One of the recommended reads for “Human-Computer Interaction”, though would be worthwhile for any designer to at least leaf through.In the end, the utopian ideal of designers being able to refuse work they found morally objectionable is a good one, but like most utopian ideals lives much more easily in dreams than reality.
The whole time reading this book I kept wondering why it hadn't been presented to me during my time at design school. This is a fantastic read that touches on ethical and inclusive design. Though written in the 70's I found so much of Papanek's criticism of the practice of design still — very much unfortunately — relevant. Though some language I found was outdated in parts (I did though read an older edition I found in a second hand store)
This is the book that sent me to design school. The first page is a deadly attack on industrial design as the worst profession in the world (second only to advertising). The rest of the book is filled with hope for the potentials that design can have in shaping the world in new, positive, directions.
Design for the Real World was an interesting and knowledgeable read that has lost a lot of its original value, as most of the environmental and design subjects discuss therein are common knowledge and practice today (although, they could still be more so), but at the time of its original publication it would have been a trailblazing read...
However, reading Design for the Real World now is still a valid reminder of how much work is still yet to be done to design a sustainable environmental that all human beings can thrive in that also maintains the equilibrium of the natural world.
In a world of abject want, a preoccupation with only making things pretty is a crime against humanity.Even though this book was first published in 1985, Papanek points out problems with design that are still relevant today.
Designers are still used to create products that are obsolescent.
Do we question if the product we are designing has true value?
Does it solve a problem or is it another item on the pile of things we want but don't truly need?This book isn't all negative though.
Papanek discusses problem-solving methods, the importance of integrated design and there are many examples how design has been used to create or improve people's lives.
Могу сравнить эту книгу с «Дизайном повседневных вещей» Д. Нормана т.к. суть у них одинаковая. Папанек истинный патриот-американец, который за толеранстность и мир во всем мире. Человек на протяжении всей книги убеждает не зарабатывать деньги, а работать во благо общества, эксперементировать, открывать, куда-то двигаться, а не тупо следовать за модой. В этом плане у него хорошая точка зрения, он описывает все нелепости дизайнерских решений. Перебор с мыслями насчет экологии и защиты окружающей среды. Не со всеми утверждениями в этой книге согласна. Читается тяжело т.к. приводятся исследования, эксперименты и сплошная статистика. Проще прочитать Нормана.
Очень длинная книга для не-дизайнера. Но, для дизайнеров книга важная, т.к. дизайнерская этика не ограничивается только рисованием интерфейсов или графиков. Важность понять вещей и людей шире очень хорошо передается в книге.http://dmitriikuchev.ru/blog/all/desi...
Strong and evolutionary ideas, but the examples are quite too long and vapid. Their description distract from the main course of the book.
Великолепная книга. Несмотря на несколько устаревшие факты на которые ссылается автор, книга крайне актуальна и сейчас. Однозначно must read.
perfect book to show social responsibility aspect of designa lot of to think of
Przymocowałem puszki do półek, a potem całe to błazeńskie ustrojstwo do przedniego zderzaka mojego samochodu, po czym z prędkością 20km/h wjechałem w narożnik siedziby senatu."Facetem, który to wszystko zrobił był Viktor Papanek.Lektura „Dizajnu dla realnego świata” wprowadziła mnie w stan przekraczającego wszelkie granice entuzjazmu i po prawdzie nie mam zupełnie nastroju do konstruowania zwykłych zdań, o nie.
Człowiek o tak wielkim poczuciu humoru, jak Victor Papanek, nie mógł jednak zostawić wszystkich tych tanich i solidnych rozwiązań bez złośliwego komentarza – znajdujemy się przecież w kapitalistycznej Ameryce.
Papanek bez przerwy wyraża swój absolutny brak tolerancji dla rynku głuchego na realne potrzeby, traktującego ludzi jak małpy, którym w cenie złota wcisnąć można dowolną ilość tombaku.
Żadna książka o projektowaniu nie mogłaby się obyć bez pozytywnych przykładów, a tych w „Dizajnie” jest bardzo wiele.
Człowiek o tak wielkim poczuciu humoru, jak Victor Papanek, nie mógł jednak zostawić wszystkich tych tanich i solidnych rozwiązań bez złośliwego komentarza – znajdujemy się przecież w kapitalistycznej Ameryce.
Papanek bez przerwy wyraża swój absolutny brak tolerancji dla rynku głuchego na realne potrzeby, traktującego ludzi jak małpy, którym w cenie złota wcisnąć można dowolną ilość tombaku.
Papanek mourns this development: “Isn’t it too bad that so little design, so few products are really relevant to the needs of mankind” (51)?Working CharitablyPapenak argues for a charitable principle in the design world.
Much like the Old Testament tenet of “gleanings”, Papenak suggests designers devote a portion of their time lending creativity and problem solving abilities to social and ecological issues.“Being designers, we don’t have to pay money in the form of kymmenykset or a tithe.
Design for the Real World dives into many issues.
Profit.
Specializations designed around corporate profit have created a headless monster that no one who drives it can appreciate for what it is.
Design should be the cross-disciplinary glue that radically improves upon thoughtless expansion and profit seeking.it's my opinion that the auto makers have been able to get away with light aesthetic changes to a fundamentally archaic foundation for far too long.
finally an upstart, Tesla, has managed to break through, expose what's really possible, and force the established corporate zombie companies to make serious investments in core technology that doesn't poison the neighbors and opens the possibility for virtually zero emission living - while offering unprecedented fun, safety and economy.
I was sold immediately when I read the preface, "Advertising design, in persuading people to buy thing they don't need, with money they don't have, in order to impress others who don't care, is probably the phoniest field in existence today."The book goes on to talk about how poorly and dangerously designed American cars are, how foreign models are grossly out-building us, and yet for various political reasons, American manufacturing does nothing about it.
He talks about how items for the handicapped are often terribly designed, or worse yet, non-existent.
"Turning back to education, we find that part of the philosophical and moral bankruptcy of many design schools and universities likes in the ever-increasing trend to train students to become narrowly vertical specialists, whereas the real need is for broad, horizontal generalists or synthesists." Reads Papanek's condemnation of both design and design education and his vision and prescription for an approach to "integrated design".
Papanek can read like your grumpy conspiracy-minded uncle, especially when he seems to bat down any idea of frivolity.
He's at his strongest, however, toward the end of the book where he is laying out a view of a new kind of practice and education.
Reading this after my first year of architecture school did, and continues to, strongly influence my thinking on design.
I return to this book regularly, and cite it often.
Some of the prospects of this book are frightening, especially considering it was written 30 years ago.
Besides its intellectual merit, the book includes Papanek's usual brand of witty, humorous writing.
This book is a must, not just for designers, artists, and architects, but I think, for everyone.
I feel so strongly about this book, that I gave it to four friends as a Christmas gift.

Папанек крут. Левый до мозга костей, годами жил и работал в странах третьего мира, разрабатывал дизайн повседневных вещей для инвалидов, неграмотных, детей, бедных, больных, много преподовал. Известен его радиоприемник для отдаленных районов Индии и Индонезии из жестяной банки, питающийся от горючего. Про то и книга, что дизайн должен быть социально отзывчивым и экологически ответственным.Папанек настоящий революционер. Со своей идеологией, теоретической базой и последователями.Книга сама по себе сделана приятно (издательство Дмитрия Аронова). Полный отзыв: http://pavelmoiseenko.ru/blog/dizajn-...
