https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/65471.Love_Takes_Wing
This series continues to deliver; I'm curious as to how it will end in the next volume.
They wanted Belinda to go too but Belinda told them she had work to do and Luke needed her until a new doctor could be found to help him out.There was a party to welcome Melissa home and Rand O'Connel was one of the guys who came.
Arnie stopped going to church and the family didn't come to Sunday dinner after they were told about Abe's arm troubles.
Marty went to visit Arnie and he came back to church and Sunday dinner but things remained strained within the family.
(I didn’t read all of these in large print, but the cover art is the same.)The first book, Love Comes Softly, was the first I ever read by Oke, my introduction into her sweet, warm, and simplistic style of storytelling that would make her one of my all-time favorite authors, up there with Henry James and L.M. Montgomery.
Yes, I love my classic authors with their legendary works, but there’s something to be said for an author who just tells a plain story that gets at readers’ hearts.The first three books of the series are my favorites, but the series is well worth reading in its entirety.
This isn't as much of a stand-alone novel as the ones before it. This one and #8 (Love Finds a Home) go together.I enjoyed this book because it takes us to Boston - a totally new experience for the Davis family.
A great finale overall to a great series. I will admit, Belinda's story was NOT Marty's, but still overall one of my favorite series.
Maybe my least favorite of the series, but still adorable.
The latter is different in so many ways from all the previous stories of this series largely because the environment is so completely different.I thought there was a lot of stupidity on the part of so many different characters in this book, including Belinda.
(view spoiler)[ I am totally surprised that she would be led astray by the completely foreign lifestyle in Boston or that it would in any way appeal to her.
The ending partially accounts for that by saying she began to be led astray even before she left home partly by the attention of Rand and Jackson, but that explanation doesn't satisfy me.
Flowers, candy, one-on-one dinner dates...all pretty good indications that the guys were interested in her.Also, I felt as if the story drifted, which may have been the author's intent considering the overall message of the story.
Basically, this book was about Belinda striking out on her own, trying to find her way in the world, and coming to the realization that God is not limited to a place.
Which is exactly what happened to Belinda.Overall, I liked the message of the story, but the story itself just seemed to drag for me.
I read and enjoyed several novels in this series in the early 1980s, and this novel was like visiting old friends and catching up with family news.
Love Takes Wing was a quick, easy read.
I liked the open ending (not a marriage), but I guess I will have to read the next book in the series to see what ultimate decision Belinda makes now that she re-establishes her relationship with God (does she leave her wealthy employer and return home to her family and one of her former beaus?
Both the builder Rand O'Connel and the doctor Jackson Brown were presumptuous of her time, attention, and affection.
Life is good working with Luke as his nurse.
But Belinda grows a bit restless with all her friends and nieces getting married.
She had a stroke and Belinda nurses her back to health.
The woman grows fond of Belinda and greatly relies on her assistance, so she asks Belinda to come home with her and be her personal nurse.
They travel to Boston where Belinda gets a real culture-shock.Boston society life certainly takes some getting used to, but Belinda comes to enjoy life there.
She misses her family, for sure, but takes joy in being a nurse and companion.
Nostalgia Read- This is the seventh book in a Christian Lit series. I have enjoyed getting to know the youngest Davis daughter, Belinda. I felt that in this book she had lost her way a little. The things that she found fulfilling the past were no longer giving her joy. Right at the end of the book, she finds a way to add God back into her life and I think that she will find her purpose in the last book of the series.
Fabulous series, Love Comes Softly. This book challenged me in that I was frustrated with Belinda and some of her choices but in no way will that keep me from reading the entire series. Janette Oke is a gifted writer and I appreciate her style of Christian fiction. I will read on with confidence that it will be time well spent.
This wasn't my favorite in the series although I do enjoy reading about Belinda more then Missie or Marty. The only reason why I ducked a star was because at the end things happened that I thought Belinda was to smart of a woman to over look. Otherwise it was a good, clean read and I look forward to reading the next/last book of the series. Four stars
We had this book at home when we were kids, though I have no idea where we got it from. I think this was the only book we had in the entire series, we used to call it the 'Belinda book', I always wanted to know what happened before and after this book. Now that I have the entire series, I am glad that a childhood dream is fulfilled. I love this book.
Wow, Belinda has had an awesome adventure. Now, with one more book to finish the series’s. How will it conclude, what adventures will there be, hummmmm, guess like me, you you’ll have to read the book.....
the book was great but I am only giving a three and a half stars because it differs so much from the movie.if you watch the movies and then read the books,you will see these differences.the books and movies are really good,don't get me wrong but I just didn't like the differences
This book really tackles how so much can happen in your life. Yet your journey is still far from over. I couldn't put this book down once I started it.
Little bit anticlimactic. Not much happens in this book, and is somewhat an bore. But have loved all the other books in this series!!!
.
Number 7 of 8 in this series and I am enjoying each book so much!
I think the 7th installation in the story of the Davis family was a little bit of a let down.
I feel like it was a little bit tired.
The book continues the story of Belinda.
Once settled she finds she is intended to be more of companion than a nurse, and with the differences in backgrounds between the two women, she often finds herself at loose ends, caught between her role as 'hired help' and 'friend', she doesn't seem to fit with either the house-hold staff or Mrs Stafford-Smyth's social circle.
Until she is introduced to Mrs Stafford-Smyth's nephew.
But the last fifth of the novel was a bit slow for me and I missed how it used to be.But all-in-all, it was a great book and Janette Oke fans should love it.(*SPOILER ALERT!!!*)Belinda was a really great character.
I'm glad Belinda is such a good friend and help to her.Marty and Clark were as kind, sweet, and endearing as ever.
I'm glad they both were able to find love and settle down though I am sad they're way out west.Jackson was really a sweetheart.
Though I must admit I am very glad Belinda did not fall in love with him, wonderful though he is.Luke was a great brother and doctor.
4 starThis is book 7 of the Love Comes Softly series.
It's a part of Marty and Clark; but it very rarely mentions them.
It's more of their youngest child, Belinda's story.
Of her nursing career and her looking at childhood male friends as 'friends' and nothing more but they have other things in mind.
Will she stay in her hometown and become a housewife, or will she take up the offer an elderly lady has given her and she travel and move with her to be her travel companion and personal nurse.
Belinda realize upon God to make the right choice
I was quite disappointed that the young lady, Belinda, did not stand up for herself and her beliefs.
You've got to be true to yourself, to your beliefs, etc.
I was very disappointed that Janette Oke didn't address that point better, but she's not perfect either.
But...I was happily surprised at the end when she addresses the need to continue going to church, reading the scriptures, etc.
I had feared while reading it that she would not address that issue either.
I do plan to continue reading her books but so far I like this one the least because of the above mentioned item.
Marty and Clark's youngest daughter Belinda is now grown and working as a nurse.
An elderly, wealthy woman from Boston takes ill on a train as it passes through town and Belinda becomes busy nursing her and develops a friendship.
As the woman prepares to return home, Belinda is invited to go along as companion and nurse.
She realizes that she has left behind God in her restlessness.
A side story involves a grandson Abe of Marty and Clark who is severely injured by a rogue bull.
Another enjoyable book in this series.
It can basically be divided into two parts (much like the 3rd book of this series when Missie moves out west): the time Belinda spends in her home town being courted and the time she spends in Boston in high society.
I like how Belinda is so devoted to her nurse work, yet she seems not to miss it too much when she goes to Boston?
I know she feels like she's being lazy, but there was no mention of "shouldn't I be helping people who actually need help?".
Over all I feel like some ends need to be tied up, so off to the last book in the series!
First, the Davis family have their first family rift in regard to Abe's arm injury.
The rift lays heavy on Clark and Marty's heart.
I think this builds reality in the storyline as families are always going to be divisional / disagreeable, and you seek help for family unity.
The second plot occurs when Virginia Stafford-Smyth arrives as a patient with a stroke and resides several months in the Davis' small prairie town.
Belinda's nursing care to Ms. Stafford-Smyth leads to new adventures in Belinda's life -- east to Boston and even across the ocean -- into such a busy lifestyle that Belinda was not including God in her life.
This was another Christian book.
220 pages of boring.
Ms. Oke had several chances to make this book interesting - when Abe's arm was hurt, when the family reconciles, etc.
In addition, the book's description leads one to believe the book is going to be able Belinda's trip "East".
But in reality less than 70 pages (out of 220) were devoted to her trip east to Boston.
When Belinda/Pierre were going out about the town, nothing of Boston was described.
Definitely disappointed in this book.
Doubt I'll read any of Ms. Oke's other books.
It's a direct sequel to 'Love's Unfolding Dream', in which Belinda starts her introduction to nursing, and gets to know her niece Melissa, who is about her age.
In this book, set a couple of years later, Belinda is established as practise nurse at her brother Luke's surgery, and Melissa returns briefly to the family after training as a teacher, before returning to the West.
I'm enjoying reading the continuation of this series which I first came across many years ago.
I'm going to continue straight on to the last in the series after this, eager to know what happens to Belinda!
