https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15014.Crucial_Conversations
And we've all witnessed how official 'my way or the highway' belief in a new, unbroadcast Terms of Service is resulting in a notable downtick in GR activity.The authors of Crucial Conversations did a lot of studies discovering that people who are skilled at dialoguing during crucial conversations:1) start with the heart, otherwise known as the self, by knowing what they want2) they avoid the 'fool's choice' of the either/or solution and look for the 'and'3) they are smart enough to clarify and know what they don't want4) they ask their brain to try and solve the harder problem--which means the 'and' one, not the gut response one5) they note what their behavior says, so that their body language/actions are in congruence with their words, thus lending believability to their wordsMy Dear, dear Goodreads Customer Service, try this.
I teach this course and have found the skills and insights that people experience can be life-changing. This book will help you in your personal and professional relationships. Crucial Conversations is not about being confrontational, avoiding conflict, or getting your way. Its about how to help yourself and others stay in dialogue so you can get the results you want. Its about learning, finding the truth, and strengthening relationships.
Ok, I read this because the boss suggested it.
He suggested it because I don't deal well with overly emotional, crying, touchy feely people.
I'm more of a "get the hell over it" kind of girl.The book is a jumbled up mess in the writing.
My guess is because it seems to have no less than 75 authors.
If you can't do that, you shouldn't be in any kind of position of authority anyway.
It was 250 pages of skipping around, stating basic civilized talking techniques.
Crying about things, especially at work, is just a waste of time, energy, and resources.
This book has valuable information, but the reader has to dig for it.
I'm not impressed with the editing job; I think the editor could have helped bring more clarity to the discussion.
They come up with a lot of jargon that you have to remember throughout the book ("Start with Heart," "Clever Stories," etc) and keeping track of their key words and phrases makes the learning process more difficult.That said, I believe there are useful tools in the book (some exercises are similar to Cognitive-Behavioral therapy), and I think it is worth the read and worth the effort to extract and organize the useful bits of information.
This should have been much more tightly edited.
It’s almost like – if he didn’t endorse it - it’s not worth reading.
This book is not an easy read like Leadership and Self-Deception, Who Moved My Cheese, or The Myth of Multitasking.
72Respect is like air.
If you take it away, it’s all people can think about.
94And of course – there are the rest of the quotes I loved that don’t fit in a prior category:Most people have trouble pulling themselves away from the tractor beam of the argument at hand.
– 173People often assume that trust is something you have or don’t have…Trust doesn’t have to be universally offered.
Probably the most influential book I've read in the past five years. The concepts have probably been around for a long time, but this was my first exposure to them. I'm still learning how to do the things mentioned here, but it really has helped me shift the way I think about others. The authors have a web site with a lot of great stuff in it, and their monthly-ish newsletter is one I actually read!NOTE: I haven't actually re-read it since I first got it, so this is a review of impact and content, not of writing style.
This book has all the ingredients one needs to improve one's interactions when one is stuck in cycles of rage or disagreement. It has remarkably similar prescriptions to other readings I have done on the subject on how to manage in a tense conversation in which one must come to some reasonable agreement. If everyone read a book like this once or twice in their lifetimes we might actually move the evolution ball down the court in a significant way. I wonder if in fact our politicians have had a look. They seem determined to regress.
The authors also use a lot of acronyms to help people remember what to do.
I wish they had an even more simplistic version of this book intended for teenagers.
These are the sorts of emotion regulating skills teenagers could really benefit from.I buy copies of this book to give to my friends.
I know that giving other people a self-help book is rarely helpful but I just hope if there are enough copies of this book floating around out there more people will read it and become better at discussing instead of fighting or withdrawing.
Crucial Conversations tackles one of the most difficult subjects in human relationships: How to navigate difficult conversations when 1) the stakes are high 2)opinions are at opposite ends, and 3) when emotions are charged.
At it’s core, the authors recommend asking yourself three critical questions before engaging in a difficult conversation: What do I want for myself?What do I want for others?
Brainstorm new strategiesOnce the conditions have been established for a crucial conversation: Use STATE to approach sensitive subjects.
Encourage testingBut Crucial Conversations goes way beyond acronyms and strategies.
At it’s core, the book dives deep into the human condition under duress.
The fact is that we messed up our "crucial" conversations.A conversation becomes a crucial conversation when opinions vary, when emotions run high and when the stakes are high.It is in our best interests to we carry on with a crucial conversation using our best capabilities since the stakes are high but unfortunately we behave our worst and ruin the outcome.We behave our worst when the conversations turn crucial - we turn violent and attack people or grow silent and sulk.So, how to take control of a crucial conversation?Read the book "Crucial Conversations" by Kerry Patterson, et al.http://www.amazon.com/Crucial-Convers...401946Crucial conversations happen everywhere - at work, in our personal lives, at our community meetings, etc., etc.
THE GOOD- the book had some pretty good advice, really not much I could have argued with- it was indeed quite specific, and described real conversational tools, as stated in the title - it had lots of examples- it's pretty short and easy to readSo in a sense, I recommend it.THE BAD1) too much self-promo.
Five times or so throughout the book they mentioned some super-exclusive very interesting content that's available at this link.
Also, that page advertised corporate training of the author's methods.
And their corporate training is great too!!" And absolutely nothing helpful or specific, just praise.
I wasn't highly impressed with this book, I certainly don't recommend reading it via an e-reader. Perhaps it would have been more digestable and useful if I had purchased a physical copy of the book.
Very rarely have I come across so sensible, articulate and powerful a book, particularly from the “Business/Self Help” genre.The premise of this book is simple: Each of us, in all relationships in and outside of work that we conduct, face situations in which there is considerable gravitas attached to the outcome.
It has equal applicability to how you're communicating with a family member, a neighbour or a friend.- It is the outcome of rigorous grounded research, over many years, leading to some broad conclusions on why these situations tend to occur, and how you personally and as a member of the larger group or relationship, can respond more productively.
Now that I can identify the avoidant part of my personality, I can start trying to make it work better for me.Part of learning about it to help deal with it is reading books.
The latest book was Crucial Conversations.
My take from their work is that during conflict I must identify my emotions so I can understand how to best deal with an issue in a crucial conversation.
I recommend both, but I would suggest reading Crucial Conversation first.
One of the amazing books I have read in recent times.
Unlike many books, this book pinpoints the exact mistakes and reasons people make in high-stress conversations.
Considering that many meetings these days are high-stress (time-pressures, market-pressures, customer complaints and so on), this book is a game-changer.What makes this book wonderful is that tells you to change your Inner Game to be able to practice it.
The tools the authors propose are not "fake-smile" type add-ons, but require a fundamental understanding of how emotions are inseparable from our behavior.Another excellent book that I completed recently, "Beyond Reason: Using Emotions as You Negotiate" by Roger Fisher and Daniel Shapiro, also speaks a lot about managing your emotions during negotiations.
pretty smooth, not so long, useful, and practical.Here are some lines that I enjoyed:- "It is an amazing but true thing that practically the only people who ever say mean, insulting, wounding things to us are those of our own households.
you make you scared, annoyed or insulted.
You and only you create your emotions.
"- "It's important to get in touch with your feelings, and to do so, you may want to expand your emotional vocabulary."- " When it comes to regaining your trust, don't set the bar too high.
Just try to trust them in the moment, not across all issues."
Good concepts, but content ended up coming across pretty dull. I found myself setting this down and not wanting to pick it back up again. I'm beginning to think that I actually do not enjoy "self help" books. Just feel like watered down textbooks that I feel like could be summed up in a MUCH shorter essay!Get to the point already!
They admit that it is difficult, if not impossible, to remember all the steps they teach us in the heat of a crucial conversation, and that two points above all will help guide us when real life, outside the book, happens.OK.The style conundrum sorted itself out for me when I realized that this book has not one, not two, but FOUR authors -- and you don't hear a single human voice until the Afterword, when each of the authors gets to write a first-person account of lessons learned since the first publication.
And like all self-help books, the authors of Crucial Conversations do try to push this into your face that their book will revolutionize your life.
But if you get past all the hardball selling and brainwashing, you'll realize that there are gems of very beautiful, sane and thought-provoking advice in the book.
Now that I think about it, I don't think the authors lie when they say that this book will revolutionize your life.
If you can manage your crucial conversations well by incorporating the advice that this book offers, you most certainly can.
This book was wonderful.
It's probably the best communication book that I've read since The Gentle Art of Verbal Self Defense, and probably the one that could provide me with the most value of any that I've read.The book thoughtfully covers what makes conversations crucial, and discusses the nature of dialog, what gets in the way of dialog, and how to overcome those challenges.One caution: I read most books in audio, and this book so captivated me that when I started it in audio, I finished that way in my car.
It is one of those books that warrants careful reading with notes.
I'd recommend others read in print, or at least not while driving so that you can give it thoughtful study.
I had to read this for work and it was a total waste of time.
Finally, the examples were forced and completely unrealistic.
Real people don't talk or act like their examples.
The one I loved the most was the wife who thought her husband was cheating on her because of a charge to a motel on their credit card.
Because of these techniques they were able to determine that the motel was owned by the same person that owns a Chinese restaurant and their marriage was saved.
What!?!Don't bother reading this if you can avoid it.
This book was extremely strong on content, but it felt like the text dragged on and on. The examples were on point, but could have been shortened. The principles were well expressed, but again needn't be so long. I'd recommend this book for the content alone, but be prepared to skim sections once you have an understanding of the principles.
Simply awesome and life changing, goes straight to my top 5 all time favorites! I wish I had read this book years ago.
When people don't speak up or speak out, it can kill.The key to real change lies not in implementing a new process, but in getting people to hold one another accountable to the processCH 2: "the mistake most of us make in our crucial conversations is we believe that we have to choose between telling the truth and keeping a friend""Dialogue" - The free flow of meaning between two or more people.*Skilled people find a way to get all relevant info out into the open.
*Watch for 2 conditions: the moment a convo turns crucial, signs people don't feel safe (silence or violence), and your own Style Under Stress.
This is a great book. I learned a lot from it and highly recommend to everyone.
Needs to be reread.Quotes: "When it comes to risky, controversial, and emotional conversations, skilled people find a way to get all relevant information (from themselves and others) out into the open.""When people aren't involved, when they sit back quietly during touchy conversations, they're rarely committed to the final decision.
They may say they're on board, but then they walk away and follow through halfheartedly...The time you spend up front establishing a shared pool of meaning is more than paid for by faster, more committed action later on...Some people would have agreed to move; others would have dragged their feet.
In these situations, the authors posit that people generally trend towards one of two veins of communication: Violence or Silence.The first few chapters do a good job at explaining their definition of what makes a conversation "Crucial" by presenting some key identifiers and using some "real world" examples.
The authors also provide examples of how to identify that successful outcome (because we may feel like the conversation ended well, when in reality the other person is now off sulking silently).Overall, I felt like the book was an insightful and intriguing read.
Чтобы обеспечить безопасность, необходимы уверенность, скромность и навыки.(2) СОЗДАЙТЕ ОБЩУЮ ЦЕЛЬ:Есть 2 приема: 1) контрастируйте, чтобы объяснить, что вы хотите избежать, 2) воспользуйтесь формулой ОРИВ, чтобы создать общую цель.Контрастируйте, чтобы справиться с недопониманием:- Если другой человек недопонимает вашу цель или ваши намерения, воспользуйтесь Контрастированием.
ВЫРАБОТАЙТЕ новые стратегии для достижения общей цели.(3) ЧЕТКО ДОНЕСИТЕ СВОЮ МЫСЛЬ:В книге также описаны очень интересные и жизненные кейсы конфликтных ситуаций, когда есть соблазн бросится на собеседника тирадой.Для обеспечения безопасности в случае, если вам нужно поделиться с другим человеком негативной или неприятной информацией ил если вы настолько уверены в своей правоте, что готовы агрессивно отстаивать свою точку зрения, воспользуйтесь навыками ДОСТУП, для разъяснения своего видения::1.
Right now, I'm happy to say that my relationship is in a very good place, but as I read the book, I reflected on years of misunderstandings and jumping to conclusions and seeing where I would often take the doomed route to nowhere, rather than the safe and smart path to a place of mutual understanding, trust and love.
So I've started applying these principles and teaching my husband how to look for signs and how to communicate to me when he feels unsafe or unhappy in a conversation, or as the authors put it, when "dialogue" stops, because when you step out of dialogue, all breaks down, so the goal is to stay in dialogue when stakes are high, when emotions are strong.
Personal reflection, along with changes in work and personal life, have made me aware that this book is just what I've needed for some time.In the early descriptions of crucial conversations, it seemed more relevant to others - extroverted Americans, countrymen of the authors, for example.
The self help feel is probably dated as well, but this is easily overlooked given the content.Impacting in a gentle way, and possibly life changing, I have already recommended this to friends and family and will continue to do so.
