https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/798396.Blott_on_the_Landscape
July 2018 reread - still a good book but I was more distracted this time around so I didn't find it quite as funny...4.5 stars for this audiobook edition.
David Suchet was brilliant as the narrator; his different voices for the characters were so varied that at times it was hard to believe that they were all being done by the same person!I found the humor in this often vulgar and yet never offensive.
And since I have been scolded by GoodReads/Amazon for changing book covers (even when they were wrong), I haven't changed this one but my audiobook from Audible has the cover below:
Classic! David Suchet played Blott in the TV film. LOL! 👍🐯
Tom Sharpe to me is a cruel and cutting observer of the amazing absurdities of the British, not only did I have the joy of reading his work but I have also heard him speak many years ago when for some strange reason he visited our local library.
To me this was Tom Sharpe at his best or at least so I thought till I started reading his other works.
If you're a fan of British humour, and by British humour I mean truly horrifying things happening to people so vile that it's funny rather than off-putting, you have to read Tom Sharpe.His first 2 books (Indecent Exposure and Riotous Assembly) are satires on the apartheid-era South African police force so biting they got Sharpe tossed out of the country.Since then, he's turned his satiric gaze on the Brits, and the results are often laugh-out-loud funny.Blott is an Italian gardener (who's not really Italian) who works for Lady Maud Lynchwood, whose family has lived in Handyman House for 500 years.
Lady Maud, who has a...strong personality, opposes a motorway that would cuth through her property and require the destruction of Handyman House.
Another funny book from Tom Sharpe. Wish I had discovered him sooner! Lady Maud's horrible husband, tries to get a motorway installed through their property in order to swindle his wife and get out of the marriage with some money. But nothing goes to plan and Lady Maud is ready for a fight.  Well worth a read.
This book is not as good as "Porterhouse Blue" or "Wilt" or "Indecent Exposure" which I read years ago. It still has Tom Sharpe's signature farce and humor, but overall the language is not as good as Porterhouse and the plot is not as well developed as Wilt. One thing I really love about Tom Sharpe's books is that usually the unconventionally "beautiful" women triumph in love, sex, life. Well, just about everything. I think it's a refreshing point of view, no matter how vulgar the author manages to depict those triumphs.
I was searching Audible for something interesting. I wanted something light and funny and happened across this author and thought, "hey, why not?"Why not indeed!Quite a complicated tale actually. I attempted to tell Husband what it was about and couldn't even think of where to begin. It's a very funny book and I'll be having a go at others from this author in the future. The only thing that disappoints me is that the blurb here on GoodReads, which I assume is the same as on the book itself, actually spoils the ending...
re-reading an old favourite and it still makes me laugh. Sir Giles Lynchwood is keen to divorce his wife but keep the money he paid for her ancestral home. As a result he decides to back a plan for a new motorway running through the estate. Sadly for him wife Lady Maud has other ideas. With the help of love-lorn Blott the gardener she aims to stop him. The usual mayhem typical to a Sharpe novel ensues!!
I hope this book was supposed to be funny, because I found it hilarious. A quirky, ridiculously British battle over what route the new highway would take, and who would get compensated, and the scandalous efforts made by politicians to get their way.
Lady Maude is the last in the line of the Handymans and expects her husband, local MP Sir Giles Lynchwood, to do his duty and breed with her.
Both would like a divorce but with Sir Giles wanting his whims kept secret and Lady Maude knowing she would lose her beloved Handyman Hall, it could prove tricky.
He is willing to do anything to help his mistress and Lady Maude is willing to do anything to save her ancestral home.This is a great book, full of deceit, lies, blackmail and even murder.
Humorous books have great storylines, wonderful characters and can be laugh-out-loud funny.
I read this book 20 years ago and having picked up a job lot of sharpe novels at a Car boot recently, I though it deserved another read.
But the book is far funnier than the screenplay, with more convoluted plots, more extrovert characters, and more implausible situations.
Sharpe's take on what can go wrong when one member of parliament attempts exploit the planning system for his own advantage, is as topical today as it was when he wrote it in the 70's.
I just wish we could see a few of today's politicians meet the same kind of sticky end as Sir Giles.
Sharpe gets compared to Wodehouse on the back of my copy of this novel - nothing like as subtle and witty, of course, but I suppose Wodehouse gets hauled out as a comparison for any British writer of satirical comedy.
Blott on the Landscape is a decidedly crude, un-subtle but still very funny book about Lady Maude, her gardener Blott and philandering husband (on whom she takes a particularly vicious revenge later in the book).
There's also plans for a motorway to be built through Lady Maude's house, and it is on this that the plot rests.
Explosions, drunken plots, a little S&M and lions ensue.
This is early warning of what happened later in Sharpe's career. The style is always on a knife edge - when it works (and it so often does in many other of his books) it is some of the finest humorous writing. But when it doesn't it is awful (Ancestral Vices and Vintage Stuff and after). This is on the cusp of awful, but just gets away with it.Don't get me wrong, Tom Sharpe is one of my favourite writers and many of his books are amongst my favourites of all time.
I read much of Tom Sharpe when I was in my teens and the verbal and situational humour in his books is breathtaking; it is unjust that some writer's humour glands are so highly developed (cf Pratchett, Donleavy and Adams)that they take away the ability to control oneself in public. Not all of his books are as good but Blott is one of his best. To describe the plot as one in which an immigrant proves himself more English than the English is not a spoiler - there is so much more.
Read years ago & watched t.v adaptation. Mam & brother love TS books. Fondest memories of mam laughing hysterically while trying to read out passages of various TS books to me..especially on the telephone!Must read more Tom Sharpe!
Hysterical! David Suchet played the character on the TV series, as well. Almost as funny as the book.
3,5 ακριβώς όπως το επώνυμο του συγγραφέα : sharp
El humor inglés no es lo mío, y mucho menos si se remonta a hace cosa de cincuenta años. La mitad de las situaciones ni siquiera me hacían gracia y tampoco soy capaz de encontrar nada ingenioso en este relato sobre gente rica haciendo cosas de gente rica y puteándose entre ellos.Quizá es la distancia cultural y generacional, quizá es que soy una mujer con conciencia de tal. No lo sé. Está claro que solo puedo valorar de forma altamente subjetiva y que este libro no es para mí.
42 WORD REVIEW:Sharpe weaves plot strands like Wodehouse and is similarly dexterous in his use of prose. He is coarse, though, and often vulgar, his characters toilet plungered en masse from the unseemly depths of human nature. Nonetheless, ‘Blott’ executes a dizzying comedic spiral.
I think I bruised a few ribs, the first chapter alone had me howling with laughter. Tom Sharpe is masterful in shining a bright light on the absurd follies of mankind. Will now read through the rest of his novels.
Funny little book but a cute subway read. Decent writing and, as expected based on the description, a silly little farcical story full of interesting characters and plot.
A riot!
One of the best satires I've read in a very long time.
ONE STARTRIGGER WARNINGS: misogyny, classism, violence, domestic violence, rape, BDSM/kink, racismREASON FOR GIVING UP: racism
Listened on audio. A hilarious, outrageous and improbably romp but lots of fun to listen to!
Urgh. Totally not my cup of tea. Book Club book. Proud I managed to finish it!
classic Sharpe stuff
Didn't enjoy this, maybe it's not aged well? Or I just don't get his sense of humour!
Не интересно, не смешно, сально, омерзительно как шутки похабных дедов.
A consummate comedy. A riotous farce.
