https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/104737.A_Monstrous_Regiment_of_Women
The continuation of The Beekeeper's Apprentice; Mary Russell meets through her friend Veronica Beaconsfield, Margaret Childe who leads “The New Temple of God”, a charismatic sect for women.
But, they had not like the first book been translated into Swedish, but I decided to buy this one the rest despite the fact that I usually didn’t read that many books in English.
One can say that this was the start of me reading English books.
Well, that’s the question that this book deals with together with the “The New Temple of God” investigation that will put Mary’s life in danger.
In this novel, the author does an absolutely superb job of using the mystery to move the issues that the book contemplates.
While visiting a friend, Mary comes to meet Margery Childe, the charismatic leader of a local Christian Temple and suffragette and feminist.
Anyone who reads this review and can recommend some books that deal with the convergence of feminism and religion, please do so!I think that some readers of the first book will find this one to be a disappointment.
Content Advisories  It is difficult to find commentary on the sex/violence/language content of book if you are interested.
If I were reading this instead of listening to audio, I don't think I would have gotten past the first half of the book.
I didn't care for the character Veronica.
I didn't care for the character Margery,  big time  .
And Holmes confessing to Mary at the end of the book that he's wanted to kiss Mary since he first met her.
What I  did  like was most the second half of the book (minus the Holmes comment).
Since I didn't care for the story initially, I can only give it an OK rating.
On page 328 a (what I hoped was minor) subplot grabbed my suspension of disbelief and threw it out the bar window.
Subplot wedged one spurred boot's tip under Suspension's still sprawling figure, flipped it over onto its back and rested the boot on its chest.
Gazing coldly into Suspension's eyes, Subplot drew its six-shooter and emptied it into Suspension's face before striding calmly back into the bar....And yet, it was still compelling enough to finish and pick up the next in the series to read next, hence the three stars.
After reading The Beekeeper's Apprentice, I decided to ride on the high of enjoyment I'd acquired while reading it, and plunged straight into the next book in the Mary Russell series, titled A Monstrous Regiment of Women.To say that the title is intriguing is something of an understatement.
Russell's involvement in Childe's church and, increasingly, in her acquaintance's personal life, spins out into a series of dangerous misadventures that culminates in Russell and Holmes solving a series of murders of wealthy young women connected to Childe's church, and discovering something about themselves, as well.Unfortunately, this book was hardly as strong as its predecessor, and certainly feels like a letdown.
This is the second in the Mary Russell series, and it loses a star for its lame-o mystery.
The church and this woman, Margery, are fascinating, and yet the mystery, which starts off with a bang, sort of limps along with strange diversions, moments of outright mysticism, and traps that Mary sets which never quite seem to pay off.
All in all, not quite the bang of the first one, but will I read the third in this series?
This is my favorite of the Holmes/Russell series, and one of my favorite books, period.
I've read it innumerable times, and keep coming back to it.
A beautiful blend of coming-of-age, detection, romance, and gritty drama, it gets at the heart of the series.
Mary Russell's friend draws her into what seems like an odd religious cult, with disturbing overtones.
At the same time, she has to settle a growing discomfort with her relationship with Holmes, and her future with him.
Read it -- this book is awesome.
But probably read  The Beekeeper's Apprentice first, so you know what's going on.
This is a solid, entertaining follow up book in a stand out series. I can’t say enough good things about this book and the series as a whole. King isn’t afraid of putting her characters into unique situations and is willing to touch on sensitive subjects such as religion. She clearly spends time researching the historic period, religious, political, and social issues of the day. Her attention to detail is effortless and will keep readers salivating for more Russell and Holmes!See my full review here
It is nothing for Mary to learn a language over a weekend, work on the accent during the week, and have all the slang, idioms and regional accents down pat over the course of a month.
It takes even my most brilliant friends at least a year to this.Although I don't think of myself as easily impressed by money, Mary is impressive.
Then Mary would have to have it out with Lisbeth.
Someone told him that he would like to be Cary Grant.
I want to be Cary Grant."Mary - brilliant, tall, witty, rich polyglot.
It's still chocolate, and therefore by definition far better than many another thing.Mary Russell has graduated from Oxford, is about to turn twenty-one and achieve separation from her horrible aunt … and her joy at these two events is dampened a bit by the peculiarities of her evolving relationship with her mentor Holmes, never an easy person to deal with at the best of times.
The growing romantic relationship between Russell and Holmes is for me, as a long-time Sherlock Holmes aficionado, a little hard to stomach - and not just due to the fact of the 21 year old Russell having a relationship with a man almost three times her age, which I find frankly a bit icky.
Yes, King does an excellent job of humanising Holmes, showing levels of his reserve and cool intellect and that there is more to him, but the (thankfully brief and rare) romantic interludes do seem a little Mills and Boon.
The setting is great, and King’s writing is more than strong enough to overcome some plot weaknesses.This has a great and suitable title, and I loved the anti-feminist quotes at the beginning of each chapter, everything from St. Paul’s "Women should keep silent in church" to Shakespeare’s "Thy husband is thy lord".It takes place in 1921 just as Mary is obtaining her majority, thus adding a substantial fortune to her improbable list of brilliant qualities.
However, despite Shakespeare’s advice to "Let still the woman take an elder than herself", I can’t help a twinge of discomfort at the 40-yr age gap between Russell and Holmes.
Full review @ Smoke & Mirrors: https://books-n-music.blogspot.com/20.... A fantastic read! This series...just love it! Can't wait to read the third installment! Twists and turns, some not-so-surprising and others very surprising!!
I picked this up at an opportunity shop. I'm glad I did as it was a fun read.Mary Russell is an interesting character. Sherlock Holmes is present, but much more in the background.The plot involves suffrage, a female mystic, and a series of unexplained deaths. All good fun, even if the villain is a little stereotypical. But this is only the second book of the series, so I am assuming the bad guys get a little more subtle as time goes on.Highly recommended.
I preferred book 1 but still very enjoyable!
Mary Russell turns into Pauline in peril, getting addicted to heroin by our nefarious (and completely random) villain and has to be rescued by Sherlock Holmes?
And the Mary + Sherlock = true love forever just seemed utterly ridiculous.
I don't mind the idea of Sherlock getting it on.
So then at, what I suppose is supposed to be really effecting moments, first when drugged up Mary realizes that she loves Sherlock and then later when good old Sherlock rescues her and declare his love and proposes, I just couldn't decide between laughing, eye rolling and wanting to throw the book down in disgust.
The title "Monstrous Regiment of Women" is the vast pool of females deprived of men by WW1 and of importance by peace.
Research was extensive, on feminism lost in biblical translations, and desperate conditions of 1920s British females.
I admire author King's talent for conveying ambience of Doyle's era - astonished, absolutely amazed, and avaricious for more.Rant:I was suspicious after one death of wealthy volunteer, let alone three, and attempted fourth.
Special.(view spoiler)[ Holmes as deus ex machina was disappointing, but in keeping, as was the natural progression into each others' arms, surprisingly.
(hide spoiler)]
WHAT A FIND!!I don't typically read mysteries and never would have selected this book for myself based upon the description, but found myself desperate for reading material on an overly-long trip abroad and picked this up at the traveler's book-swap in a hotel.
I don't find myself wondering how the mystery will be solved as I'm reading, or "whodunnit," but I love the dialog, the characters, and the relationship between Russell and Holmes.
The whole series is thoroughly enjoyable, but if pressed I would say O Jerusalem and Justice Hall are my favorites.As an additional bonus, I now want to read the original Sherlock Holmes stories, something I never had any desire to read before but now think I will enjoy.

What a ridiculously horrid follow up to the fantastic 'the beekeper's apprentice'!..Mary Russel as a narrator is intolerable..so self centered! the book drags on ever so slowly with barely a semblance of a plot,let alone a mystery..terrible. Never picking up a Laurie King book again. And to think i was excited about a whole series about mary russel and sherlock holmes!
I didn't love this one, after falling hard for the Beekeeper's Apprentice. I was disappointed by the supporting actress (Margery), the shallow mystery, and the cheap romance. The theology and the "miracle" shoehorned in was eye-rolling. Likewise with the upcropping gallantry of Holmes. This does not bode well.What was amusing was the sniping at Sir A.C.Doyle's real-life "spiritualism" - meta!
İlk kitaba göre daha yavan buldum. Gerçi yazış stilinden dolayı her şey daha da yavaş ilerliyor ama bu sefer aradığım heyecanı hemen hemen hiç bulamadım. Katili bile pek merak etmedim ki bu benim için baya ilginç. Mary ile sherlock un ilişkilerinin yönü değişiyor ve beğensem mi beğenmesem mi emin de olamadım. Belki üçüncüyü okuyunca tam olarak oturur yerine.
Sevgi, kadın üzerine bir kitap. Polisiye ve gizem çok geride kalıyor.
Really not sure why I waited three years in between reading books one and two.
They've just been sitting here waiting for me!I think I kind of forgot why I liked the first book so much after I read it, and it wasn't the mystery, or even the appearance of Holmes in a different context.
When I stop and think about it, I still feel weird on a theoretical level about a young girl shoehorning herself in to the Holmes canon, and especially (view spoiler)[marrying the fellow herself at the end, despite a huge age difference (hide spoiler)].
I also think King continues to walk a very fine line, re: her relationship to Holmes.
Ms. Russell is going through many transitions as a student to academic, child of controlled means to an heiress, girl to woman, and the strange tension between Sherlock Holmes and herself – she is no longer an apprentice and can she be trusted to handle a case on her own.Mary finds herself in London waiting to come into her inheritance and runs into a friend, Veronica, from her schooling in Oxford.
Holmes is brought into to help Ronny’s young man but that is not the only mystery in London.Ronny is deeply involved in The Temple and a charismatic woman named Margaret.
The book follows Mary Russell, a young heiress reading (the British equivalent of studying – don’t you just love Anglicisms?) theology in Oxford, on her exploration of a new religious movement and its leader Margery Childe.
Like Mary, Childe is a feminist and she preaches the emancipation of women through Scripture.
In her day-to-day life, Mary doesn’t really believe in God. She is a scholar and a skeptic, immersed in the theory of religious writing, but faith, so effortless for Childe, seems a foreign concept for Mary.
Sequel to The Beekeeper s Apprentice.[return][return]Desperate to escape cloying Christmas celebrations with her detested aunt and barely-known relatives, Russell in one of her favorite disguises--that of a young working-class male, takes off for London, where she has a hilarious encounter with Homes that I refuse to spoil.
Ronnie takes Russell to a lecture by Margery Childe, who leads The New Temple of God church/charitable organization in London.
Childe is a striking, charismatic woman who challenges religious gender roles and who has built a volunteer organization dedicated to improving the lot of women and children in post World War I London; she has eventual political ambitions.
In this book, Mary 's relationship with Holmes has reached a bit of a turning point, and she seeks a bit of distance, to better consider things.
When she discovers a series of mysterious deaths (with all the deceased leaving their wealth to the society), Mary feels she must investigate.
She's in a good position to do so, as she's about to come into her inheritance and, for someone looking at her from the outside, she may look like exactly the sort of person who'd go for the sort of cult the society seems to be.
And her relationship with Holmes continues to develop very satisfyingly.
Sherlock Holmes wants to bang an obnoxious 15 year old?
Laurie King hasn't done Sherlock Holmes fans any favors with not only this book, but the whole inexplicably popular series.
There's just no accounting for taste.There are a lot of twists and turns in this particular book that go nowhere.
Mary doing a back flip off the top of a hansom cab JUST because Holmes says something borderline obnoxious.
What the hell with a back flip?
No need to be a diving diva about it.Sadly, the whole book is like this -- and the one after it which I also read (stupidly.)
She crossed the line. She took what was an interesting take on a literary icon and got all mushy and romantic. The first book was much better than this, and she'd have been fine keeping Holmes and Russell as a team rather than a couple. A married Sherlock Holmes... just ridiculous.
