https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27049.Satan_in_Goray
In the wake of a pogrom, a 17th Century Jewish village in eastern Poland is further unsettled by a frantic enthusiasm for the Messiah from the east, Sabbatai Zevi. This is a very strange book--more like an elaborate folk tale than a traditional novel. It is also very wise, and it shows with frightening clarity how a society of good people can be destroyed by great misery followed by desperate hope.
Progressivamente la comunità viene investita da straordinarie dicerie: prossima è la venuta del Messia e con essa la fine della lunga schiavitù del popolo ebraico, si avvicina il giorno della liberazione.
E giunge l’anno 1666 e in piena aderenza ai calcoli cabalistici Shabbatay Tsevi si rivela come il Messia tanto atteso, egli chiede devozione totale al male in cambio della fine dell’esilio e della tanto agognata Terra d’Israele.
Tutti gli sono devoti… In questa cornice storica si inserisce la vicenda romanzata di Rechele della quale si racconta la breve e triste sventura che accompagna il triste collassare degli eventi.
C’è un abisso infatti tra il libro di Wiesel che visse l’Olocausto in prima persona e Singer, che scrisse invece il romanzo (la sua prima opera) nel 1935, quando nella Germania nazista era iniziata la persecuzione contro gli ebrei, ma nulla ancora lasciava presagire la catastrofe futura, le sue immani dimensioni, la sua devastante e annichilente intensità.
Questa sì che porta alla pressoché totale distruzione della comunità ebraica di Goraj, travolta, sradicata nelle sue convinzioni più intime, nella fede più santa, nell’aspettativa fiduciosa e rispettosa di Dio e del suo Messia.
Срећом, све је ово објашњено на почетку књиге, тако да дудуци као ја нису превише ускраћени, али сигуран сам да би стварно познавање историје било од велике користи.
Несрећа у срећи била је што је неко крме које је узело књигу прије мене (да, ово је књига из библиотеке, учланио сам се тамо јер је практично џаба и јефтиније ми је да одатле узимам књиге него да их купујем, а и да не гомилам књижурине по кући да скупљају прашину) повадило све те странице, тако да сам за све небиблијске појмове био у тоталном мраку.Но добро, ако занемаримо ту малу потешкоћу, шта имамо овде?
"... la vivida rappresentazione dei turbamenti che agitano gli esseri umani allorché la struttura della loro società viene frantumata da un impulso rivoluzionario che tende verso l'Impossibile." (Nota al testo, p. 179)
E ho faticato sulle prime per la discontinuità di lettura che non mi hanno reso scorrevole l’avvio.
E sull’onda di questa allucinazione collettiva parte un delirio nero e grottesco fra falsi dei e impostori che sembra non avere fine.
Una favola nera, con una morale espressa alla fine ma che porta il pensiero all’attualità del messaggio espresso da Singer.
Dybbuk o esseri umani in carne e ossa che si impossessano della nostra anima e del nostro corpo.
E’ interessante che questo libro sia stato scritto in yiddish, lingua ormai morta per Isaac, per poi essere tradotta da lui stesso al fine di avere maggiore visibilità.
che grande scrittore singer- ti prende e ti trascina in un paesino della polonia nel diciassettesimo secolo, tra rabbini rigorosi, seguaci di un falso messia, profetesse, dibbuk, abissi di degradazione ed eccessi di ogni tipo. satana a goray, romanzo d'esordio dello scrittore, è un libro vorticoso e profondo sul bisogno che l'uomo ha della fede, sugli ingannevolezza delle apparenze e sulla necessità disperata di arginare la confusione dovuta all'ignoto. bellissimo romanzo, bellissimo affresco su un mondo scomparso.
This is a book to read for its colorful depiction of attitudes and beliefs and mythology among Eastern European Jewry, and its exploration of a town gone mad with religious enthusiasm for a lie.
Singer's subject is the time of Shabbtai Zvi, the great false messiah, and the enthusiasm for him that swept European Jewry circa 1648 after the Chmelnicki massacres, as reflected in the experiences of one little town called Goray, in southeastern Poland.
The problem an anthropologically attuned reader immediately has is that Singer's knowledge of this time is likely reflected through the beliefs of 19th century Jewry in Poland.
The writing is good (or at least my translation was), the subject matter itself is interesting & the story is wonderfully told.
The moral is very interesting albeit debatable, being that people should not try to coerce god into bringing forth the end of the or salvation in this case even in the wake of a great tragedy.
Unfortunately the ending did fall a bit short.
It was forced & rushed, needlessly Singer tried changing his style in order to give the story a more parable/myth like atmosphere which simply didn’t work & destroyed most of his previous build-up.
Satan in Goray takes place in a Jewish village in 17th century Poland during the time of the pogroms. It is a tale: full of dark miracles and strange winds that blow in rumors and demons and turbulence. I did not enjoy reading this book, but I found it helpful in understanding both the medieval mindset, and also the vulnerability to deception which a people who have been persecuted might be prone to. Singer's bottom line message is that humans get into big trouble when they try to manipulate God.
Modernist trappings mar but don't destroy this excellent depiction of religious memetic fervor in still-medieval middle Europe, the highpoint of which is a brilliant, terrifying demonic possession scene. I'm tempted to say that the devil really is in the details.
In medieval Poland, Jewish society splits into; one follows a rabbi, the other, a false messiah.
Very dark but so compelling. Reminded me of Dostoevsky with all the holy lunatics and criminals.
Throughout eastern Europe hope sprang up, especially in the Polish-Ukrainian regions devasted by the murderous Bogdan Chmielnitski not long before.Written as a novel, with lively, colorful characters, Singer describes perfectly the course of such a millenial movement in Goray, an isolated Polish village.
We follow the rise and fall of a local cult leader, a prophetess, and the feverish hopes of the Jews, longing for deliverance from "singing King Alpha's song in a strange land".
SATAN IN GORAY is a wonderful book of literature, anthropology, and history from which great understanding may flow.
"¡Una gran luz descenderá sobre el mundo! ¡Miles y miles de veces mayor que la del sol! ¡Ella cegará los ojos de los malvados y los cínicos. ¡Solo los elegidos se salvarán!"- Satán en Goray, Isaac Bashevis Singer  Libro escrito originalmente en yiddish, la lengua que Hitler hirió casi de muerte y la cual desconozco en su totalidad, pero que imagino bella. Esta nueva edición traducida al español pone de regreso una obra que estaba medio olvidada, pues hacía rato que no se imprimía, al menos en n
La trama se desarrolla durante el siglo XVII en un pequeño pueblo de Polonia al que Isaac Bashevis Singer descibre como "una población en medio de las colinas en el extremo del mundo".
La gran variedad de términos, supersticiones y ritos ligados al judaismo, lo llenan de un folclor muy rico y entretenido para los que sabemos poco sobre esta religión (cosas como el río Sambatión del cual efervescen piedras, la mezuzá que se cuelga en las puertas de los hogares, la celebración del Yon Kippur, el estudio del Talmud o del Torá).
'Satan in Goray' is Isaac Bashevis Singer's haunting first novel dealing with the Sabbatean movement of 17th century.
But the history of the famous false messiah itself is not the core of the novel but rather it's impact on a distant and closed jewish community of Goray in rural Rzeczpospolita.
The author shows splendid knowledge of social psychology and the dynamics of the small group.The novel shows the utmost vulnerability of such a distant albeit pious community in the face of total madness from outside.
These are just small amount of problems the novel deals with.
Satan in Goray is a mysterious story that takes place in a remote village of Eastern Europe in the 1600s. It is in many ways a classic tale of good vs. evil, but because of the power and beauty of Singer's writing, it is so much more. No one weaves a tale quite like Isaac Bashevis Singer; he draws readers in like children being fed fairy tales by a professional raconteur. The story of Satan in Goray was both fascinating and terrifying. I even had nightmares after reading it before bed, so maybe save this one for daytime entertainment.
I thought this story was really interesting and it taught me about Sabbatai Zevi who I didn't know about before. Also, I thought the dybbuk parts were fascinating along with elements of folklore and tradition that I didn't know about before. The book seemed to have conflicting story details sometimes and a weird structure that couldn't decide who or what was the focus of the novel. I think it is an interesting story and worth reading all the same.
Why are Jews the single largest group of people to have received the Nobel Prize? When we know that they have never passed the 15 million people mark? This novel does not answer that, but when one knows that it was written in Yiddish by an immigrant from Poland, one does start to get the idea that it is quite unsettling how extremely intelligent the Jews are.
Very engaging and beautifully translated. It's a shame we do not know who the translator is.
Lepsze od "Sztumistrza z Lublina"
Dark and strange- a meditation on 17th century apocalyptic fervour, like a Bruegel painting transmuted to Bosch, but in novel form.
En historia om trolöshet bland judar i en liten stad i södra Polen på 1600-talet. Det går 'åt helvete' pga avgudatro. Behållningen ligger i folklivsskildringen.
Great character-driven story of desperation and blind faith, with all of Singer’s incredible detail and not a single extraneous word. The sad tale of a town that loses its way and then some.
Boring and too long. I suspect Singer strength is in short stories.
It is a tale about desperation, fervor, and false hope.
Most of the prose is narrated by a cool and detached voice that knows nearly all the goings-on in Goray, but has limited access to the characters' own minds.
The reader remains at a distance from even the main characters.
The novel concludes with an archaic and formal voice; it reads like a religious tract.
The messianic fanatics are vanquished, as is Rechele's dybbuk, but despite its moralistic conclusion, this is no victory, and there is no hope left at all.
I really liked this book.
It gives the reader a good view of the lives of the European Jews in the early 17th century.
I think the title is slightly misleading, but good enough.
The way it is written makes it obvious that it was an oral story and in another language.
One thing that makes this book so fascinating is seeing how Jewish tradition practiced and where some of them came from.
I would recommend this book to anyone, however, if you don't know too much about orthodox practices, it can be difficult to understand some of it.
Isaac B. Singer's typewriter worked as a time machine. Destination: Seventeenth century, Poland.Coordinates: an extremely believable choral portrait of superstitious dwellers in a Jewish shtetl in the middle of nowhere. Co-starring: -horns and drums- the Messiah (he will show up himself).Warning: being the first novel Singer ever wrote (he was still in Poland at that time), there are just some minor details in style he would have written in a better way in the following years.Report:this is what I call a hard reading, but once you insist with it, "Satan in Goray" will be probably rewarding.
Satan in Goray paints a vivid and mystical picture of Jewish rural life in the Poland of the 17th century, in a style far removed from the politicised drivel that one is often confronted with today.The citizens of Goray are confronted with anti-semitic dangers, religious fervor and false messianism in tale that sharply analyses the processes of mass hysteria and apocalyptic thinking. All of this is set against a background highly charged with folklore and magic, making it particularly appealing to my tastes.
went in with high expectations, was kind of disappointed -- good parts detailing life in a small shtetl during the 17th century time of the false messiah sabbatai zevi, but overall the book had a rather disjointed structure i didn't love, and chose to be realistic where it should have been fanciful -- eg treated demons as real rather than as products of villagers' superstitions, which I found annoying ....
