https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/234225.Dune
But, as Borges shows you, the different cultural context means it's a completely new book!
It just happens to look like Cervantes's masterpiece.Similarly, imagine the man who was brave or stupid enough to rewrite Dune in the early 21st century.
The disgusting, corrupt, slimy Harkonnens - don't you just love to hate them!
When former-aristo-turned-desert-guerilla-fighter Paul Muad'Dib rides in on a sandworm at the end to fight the evil Baron and his vicious, cruel nephew, of course you're cheering for him.
Who the hell wouldn't be?So that was the Dune we know and love, but the man who rewrote it now would get a rather different reception.
You're not going to convince me a child does.The stuffy dialogue is inserted into even stuffier narrative, until it feels like nothing is organic about Herbert's prose.
But unlike J.R.R. Tolkien, who he is so frequently compared to, Herbert didn't make sure to include a great story in his world.
Instead he included a story that frequently illustrated how clunky an artificial world can be, even if it's lovingly crafted.
In his world-building, Tolkien at least saved himself from being dated by antedating himself, and even with his illuminated prose, wrought more characteristics in just one protagonist than all of Dune's cast.
The Foreword"To the people whose labours go beyond ideas into the realm of 'real materials'- to the dry-land ecologists, wherever they may be, in whatever time they work, this effort at prediction is dedicated in humility and admiration." The foreword makes it pretty clear that Frank Herbert isn't kidding around.
The Kwisatz Haderach is the proposed solution to the male-female dichotomy, between the analytical and intuitive.The plot of Dune is almost wholly set on the desert planet of Arrakis (also referred to as Dune), an arid wasteland where water is so scarce that men have to wear stillsuits which recycle human moisture for further consumption.
Dune.No other single syllable means as much to the science fiction genre, a single word that conjures images of sandworms, spice wars, great battles between rival dynastic families and a massively detailed and intricately crafted universe.
The complexity and depth of the creation is staggering and I am continually astounded at the discipline with which Herbert must have focused his imagination.This is the book upon which Herbert would base his greatest series and one that would outlive him as his son has continued to expand and add detail to the vast, immaculate tapestry woven by a true master of the genre.
I would love to watch it again and see if I understand it more after reading the book.
I did read in the back of the book that is was like a drug when taken in small quantities and really addictive when taken in large quantities and that Muad'Did felt his prophesies were because of the spice.
I really enjoyed Paul's character and his mother Jessica.
I'm not sure but I know some of my goodreads friends that read this will get me sorted out =)Other than the sandworms and traitorous people on Arrakis, I was most freaked out by the thought of the water issue!
This was more so in the beginning, which I found particularly hard to read because of the author’s way of shifting between the thoughts of multiple characters.
The Fremen, like Paul, want the evil Baron Harkonnen gone from their planet.
To emphasise this point you need only look at the fact that off-world humans live in fear of the giant Sandworms that infect the planet whereas the Fremen ride them as a coming of age ritual.
I was very overwhelmed at the beginning, and in all honesty I do think this novel merits a re-read to further establish my understanding of it.
There is, however, a small population of native, fierce Freman who have managed to build an existence in the desert.Paul Atreides is the young heir of the family, and mystical testing reveals he might be the one prophesied.Paul undergroes a rapid growth curve, facilitated by his teacher Dr. Yeuh and his father’s advisors.But it is in the desert that Paul will discover his strength as well as his new people.Seriously, now.Honestly, I have to wonder how much of this like is generational.
The Kwisatz Haderach can be many places at once, and he can be both alive and dead at the same time just like that certain cat.Is the novel a coming of age tale, first set as a mirror against his father Leto, only then to mirror the whole universe that had just turned against him?
Sure, he wouldn't have been able to convert the unconscious changes into conscious manipulation, but he might have had enough glimpses of the future, the way that the Fremen did, to have given him the edge he would have needed to kill Paul.And then there's a relatively minor character, Hasimir Fenring, the Emperor's personal assassin, who was nearly the Kwisatz Haderach, himself.
People often forget that this series is what innovated our modern concept of science fiction (up until Neuromancer and The Martix, at least).
Herbert created a vast and complex system of ancient spatial politics and peoples, then set them at one another's throats over land, money, and drugs.Dune is often said to relate to Sci Fi in the same way that Tolkien relates to Fantasy.
Read it, Starship Troopers, Ringworld, Neuromancer, and Snowcrash and you'll know everything you need to about Sci Fi: that you want more.
Dune didn’t become the number one highest selling Sci-fi novel of all time for no reason; like Brian Herbert said, it is to Sci-Fi, what the LOTR trilogy is to fantasy.Theoretically, if I’m reviewing this by putting my head as someone from 1960’s or 1970’s, I know I would think of this book as my bible.
There are just too many groundbreaking ideas, world-building, that would become the inspirations for many Sci-fi in our time; I only realized this after reading this book.
He then blended these more grounded concepts with bigger sci-fi ideas like being able to use spice to see through space-time, and the scope of that encompasses trying to pick the proper path through various potential timelines as well as free will vs.
Plus, the classic film Lawrence of Arabia came out a few years before Herbert published this, and you have to think that it had some influence on him because there are elements of the story that seem very much inspired by it.While the whole concept of a Chosen One has gotten a bit worn over time that’s not Herbert’s fault, and this is still a fantastic sci-fi story with big ideas that also works as space opera as well as being an epic adventure story.
We come to believe that the protagonists do have deep and profound insight into the question of ‘Life, the Universe, and Everything’ so that we do not immediately feel cheated and we are able to believe in the characters – even someone like Maud’Dib. As I’ve gotten older, and hopefully wiser, I’ve come to see that Herbert is not in fact possessed of superhuman intelligence, but that he creates the illusion of superhuman intelligence by a variety of clever devices.
This science fiction book was scary.
The story set very far into the future has no prudence in it.
When I read this book, I was affected by this dark and dismal future.Sure, the book is sometimes like an adventure.
Melange practically makes a superhuman out of a mere man.I was drawn into the story from early on.
Sometimes one can know that the entire book one is reading is bad or not.
Dune is like the lightning captured in a bottle.
Books like this happen once in a generation.
A 5 star book once again.
It’s considered by many to be THE best sci-fi novel of all time and Herbert’s son, Brian Herbert, rightfully calls it sci-fi’s equivalent to Lord of the Rings for inspiring all that came after its publication.
Of course, if you just want to read a compelling tale of political plotting, murder, adventure, and discovery, you can totally do that too.In the afterword, Brian Herbert notes a conversation he had with his father about the writing and structure of Dune.
Which, of course, begs the question: will I read the other Dune novels?
You like sci-fi, your friends continuously recommend you read Dune, and you keep putting it off?Goodreadians, I think you know what you need to do!
Leaving their ancestral home on the verdant Caladan for Arrakis with Paul is his mother, the Lady Jessica, the duke's concubine and a Bene Gesserit, who is a black sheep among the Reverend Mothers.Thus spoke St. Alia-of-the-Knife: "The Reverend Mother must combine the seductive wiles of a courtesan with the untouchable majesty of a virgin goddess, holding these attributes in tension so long as the powers of her youth endure.
For when youth and beauty have gone, she will find that the place-between, once occupied by tension, has become a wellspring of cunning and resourcefulness." -- FROM "MUAD'DIB, FAMILY COMMENTARIES" BY THE PRINCESS IRULANOn moving day, Paul is visited by the Reverend Mother Gaius Helen Mohiam, Jessica's teacher, for a rite of passage and a test.
For those who are just discovering Dune for the first time, it is essentially a messianic story on a desert planet (think of Jesus or perhaps Mohammed on Tatooine) in a universe dominated by a cartel (the Guild also known as CHOAM) with a monopoly on a drug (called mélange) derived from a rare material (spice) available only on the desert planet Arrakis (Dune).
Paul Atreides, heir to the throne, is born to Jessica, a Bene Gesserit, possessed some of these powers and when the family moves to Arrakis (part of the aforementioned Harkkonen plot) from their home planet, he appears to the native Freeman population as perhaps a fulfillment of their messianic prophecies and hopes.
Buddy re-read with Athena!“To begin your study of the life of Muad'Dib, then, take care that you first place him in his time: born in the 57th year of the Padishah Emperor, Shaddam IV.
Arrakis, the planet known as Dune, is forever his place.”Thus begins one of the greatest novels ever written.About ten years ago, when I was ten or eleven years old, I took my first cautious steps away from children’s and young adult books and into the wonderful world of adult literature.
Add to these heroes the malign Baron Harkonnen and his debased nephews Feyd Rautha and "the beast" Rabban, the spiteful and covetous Emperor Shaddam IV, masterminds of the fall of Paul's House, and we have the recipe for an exciting contest of wills with no less than the future of humanity at stake.Even without an exciting story to drive it, the book is almost worth reading just to experience the world created by Herbert.
(I'm not spoiling anything by telling you this, believe me, the book will tell you ALL about it) Before this the plot drags along at a slow and unpleasant pace (at least for me.) The story is told in a third person omniscient point of view, and the author uses this liberally, giving us a peek into the different characters' thoughts.
So we get to know about the betrayal from the bad guy who planned it, from the traitor himself, from everyone inside House Atreides who knows that there's a traitor and suspects everyone,...
I got the gist of the story just fine but the richness of the novel completely escaped me.What makes Dune superior to most sf books is the quality of the world building.
If you are looking for a bit of escapism you can not beat reading Dune for the first time.That's enough review I think, I just want to make a few random observations for people who are familiar with this book (more than half the people who read this review imagine):- Most memorable scene for me is the “Gom Jabbar” test where Paul Atreides has his humanity tested by the Reverend Mother.
At the heart of the tale are the Emperor, the House Atreidis, and the House Harkonnen.An assassination sets into motion a very old prophecy and the uprising of a people that has been suppressed for generations.It's also about a planet that is merely a "factory" for melange (spice) and about the delicate balance of nature even in the most desolate of places.Now, considering where I live and current events here, I must admit that reading all the Muslim names and terms, but especially reading about Jihad, made me EXTREMELY uncomfortable.
One marvels at its historical importance and world-building (unique, fascinating, complex, rich), and the other dislikes the stilted writing but does so apologetically because Frank Herbert couldn't help the fact that he wrote science fiction in the 1960s and that Edward Said hadn't done his thing yet.
We can't wonder about whether and how  Jesus Christ  Paul will become the messiah of the people because the princess has already told us before we've begun the book.
The other thing that makes this book unreadable is Frank Herbert's I-Tarzan-You-Jane approach to gender:“There is in each of us an ancient force that takes and an ancient force that gives.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Islamic Thought: "Dune" by Frank HerbertA great book full of grand themes.Time has only made it grander in its vision.
I mean, there was a time when Islam wasn't the great, dangerous "other" to Western eyes.
Then there are the themes of climate change, genetic engineering, the artificiality of religion, which were prophetic.
Herbert had a keen eye for the themes that would dominate the next decades (centuries?)There's more on the other side of the rainbow.
By the way the reasons for this duty and its acceptance are at best murky to begin with and they are never explained and become even more unclear down the road.Dune used to be a stronghold and the major source of wealth of Duke's sworn enemy Baron Vladimir Harkonnen who actually somehow managed to arrange the whole thing to finally deal a mortal blow to the Duke.And so the story begins.
The book became a victim to its own hype: it does not deserve the title of the most important and the best science fiction work ever which it is often credited with.
The philosophies and practices and Pranu Bindu training of the Bene Gesserit that Paul learns and builds upon.
My absolute favorite quote from Dune is the Bene Gesserit litany against fear:"I must not fear.
While this Litany won't always eliminate it, I've felt it to be useful to recognize the fear and call it out for what it is.There is also a focus in the book on being able to read people by paying attention to the minutia.
It started with Paul first learning about it from his Father, and also from the Bene Gesserit.
Beautiful, yes; good, not so much.I first read this novel in 1975.
And the story was just about as timely as anything I could've hoped to avoid!Dune bashed me upside the temples with its portrayal of the collapse of Empire and revolution of the have-nots in a way it couldn't have 17 or 42 years ago.
This is my idea of good myth-making: A story that isn't finished telling us the truth yet, and doing so in a way that compels, impels, propels us to go on the journey ready or not.
Isn't it interesting how every decade seems to call for a new version of the story?
A masterpiece of SF with which I will probably compare all SF books that I’ll read in the future.
This is my 3rd attempt to read Dune and I am really grateful that I did not succeed the first two times I tried as I was too young to understand all the subtleties.
I would have probably enjoyed it as a very well written adventure novel but nothing more.
That would have been a pity as Dune is so much more than a story about space travel and epic battles between good and evil.
Familiar yet strange, realistic yet fantastic, prosaic yet poetic, crystal clear yet mysterious, stiff yet graceful, cold yet passionate, detailed yet abstract, rational yet delirious, disciplined yet boundless, conservative yet progressive, obsessive yet sublime – aaah, I think the spice melange is starting to kick in...
The characters are more like mega-archetypes than real human beings.The appeal of Dune is peculiar.
All authors create little worlds in their stories but Herbert created a world.He doesn't just say that Arrakis is a desert planet, he engrosses himself and the reader into the geology.He puts people on the planet, governments, conflicting cultures, conflicting religions, conflicting ways of life that are thought out to the Nth level above and beyond anything else I've ever read.
The very fact that it often reads more like a National Geographic article than a sci-fi novel speaks to its peculiar charm.Admittedly, this will not appeal to everyone.
Most authors, myself included, need more than one book in order to tell an epic coming-of-age story.
It deals with questions of leadership, ecology, and philosophy (and so much more) while also telling a darn good story.And it contains one of my favorite quotes:“I must not fear.Fear is the mind-killer.Fear is the little-death that brings total obliteration.I will face my fear.I will permit it to pass over me and through me.And when it has gone past I will turn the inner eye to see its path.Where the fear has gone there will be nothing.Only I will remain.”The book does have some flaws (the death of Muad’Dib’s son is dealt with too quickly, and the only homosexual character is the villain), but even with them, Dune is a masterpiece.
