https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1835267.The_Timeless_Land
There are other excellent non-fiction books about Aboriginal culture, which give us some idea of its importance and intricacies, and I can recommend a few.Meanwhile, this is historical fiction and a good (long) read, if you like that sort of thing.
There are now other excellent historical fiction books based believably in colonial times but with much more fictionalised stories.A few of the other non-fiction books I’ve enjoyed about Aboriginal culture and history follow.Deep Time Dreaming: Uncovering Ancient Australia by author:BillyGriffiths|6604142] My review: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Dark Emu: Black seeds agriculture or accident?
So this was very good but I'm glad I'm done now :)Timeless Land is a historical novel about the very beginning of the penal colonization of Australia, viewed from both the native and the white viewpoint.
And I do like to feel a bit more.
(By the way this is only book one in a trilogy, so if you like what you read there's mooooore!)CONTENT: Mild PGSEX: alluded to but not shownVIOLENCE: Some mild violence but not overly descriptivePROFANITY: Mild (D and B)
But when the First Fleet arrives in January 1788, Bennilong remembers what his father had seen and spoken of.The novel describes the first years of the colony, the attempts by Captain Arthur Phillips to impose European values and standards on the Aborigines and to involve them in European settlement.
It was the first novel I’d read that tried to look at the European settlement in 1788 from both an Aboriginal and European perspectives.
And Australia itself, the ‘timeless land’ seen through very different eyes.Lieutenant Tench thought: ‘This place did not welcome you, like Rio; it did not look particularly fertile, and it was certainly not languorous.
Thanks to the wonderful New Zealand library system, this was yet another old Australian classic I could download and borrow for free when living there(take note UK libraries).
The Timeless Land is a fictional exploration of the Australian land as 'character' - brooding, fickle, unchanging - and the various figures who move upon it.
This is a really fascinating fictional but historically-based exploration of the founding of the first European colonies in Australia.
It is unusual in a number of respects.
The point of view moves from character to character including several of the aborigines which makes for a very balanced presentation.
Most of the action is viewed from or takes place in the heads of the characters.
And not just the main characters.
Finally, it is worth noting that this novel is very sympathetic to the dilemmas of the aboriginal peoples who are confronted with the seemingly unstoppable expansion of the white settlements on their land.

ok on audio book. waffles on at times
Having read Coonardoo earlier this year (which thoroughly annoyed me), I would also like to applaud Dark for the effort she put into making sure her book contained a balance of both Indigenous and White settler perspectives.
I think that even though this is a challenging read, it's a challenge definitely worth undertaking if you love Australian historical fiction or simply want to know more about topics like Indigenous culture, what the convicts had to endure, and colonialism.
I’ve read a few books about these first days of Australian history.
The story shows the English arrogant stupidity and their sheer pig headed ness.
I suspect the first years would have been very different if those first settlers were other than military goalkeepers and the downtrodden starved convicts all under the control of Arthur Phillip.
I accepted the historical account thought haven’t investigated the writers reputation.
The first Australians - the natives - could live happily in the harsh land following their Law which valued their life.
The invaders only just survived through brute determination unable to reassess their messed up English belief system.
An interesting book, that I found a hard slug. Detailing the originally settling of Australia, it told the story with characters both European and Aboriginal, with all being treated with sympathy. The problem I had with the book, was that much it read less like a piece of fiction, and more like an historical non fiction, which made it hard to engage with many of the characters. Despite that, an interesting read.
Great read I am glad this was recommended to me. Gives a really interesting insight into what it would have been like to be involved in the clash of cultures when the settlers arrived in 1788.
3WR: "'Timeless' took forever."
The book creates a remarkable sense of place of the first settlement of Australia, being written from not only the perspectives of the settlers, Governor Philip and convicts but the aborigines as well. The landscape comes to life with descriptions of the bush and endeavours to capture the country as it was before the moment of settlement. First published in 1941 it is a book ahead of its time and the narration by James Condon adds to the atmosphere.
The book was written in 1941. though listed as a novel it is historically researched and careful and kind to the aborigines first encountered by the Brits who are setting up a convict colony near Sydney in Australia. What we would today term historical fiction it is well done and one of the subjects I love.
This was my grade 12 compulsory reading but unlike many students who don't appreciate what they HAVE to read, I loved this book. For those who are interested in the history of the European invasion of Australia, you'll enjoy this fictional version.
A great book about the early settling of Australia. Beautiful prose about aboriginal peoples. The language is a bit thicker, heightening the literary fell of it all. If you like the historical or aboriginal, a must read.
a really great book about the settling of australia from the perspective of three groups. the aboriginees, the prisoners and the army/guards.eleanor was ahead of her time.
Written in 1941 - Historical novel about 1st English to settle in Australia - interesting and relevant.
It seems unfair to give a classic only 2 stars. For me it was about genre. It was fine for this genre, it was just too dry for me.
