https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/791872.Aladdin_and_Other_Tales_from_the_Arabian_Nights
A really enjoyable read filled with magic, kings and queens, Princesses and princes, and Caliphs. The story of Aladdin was very very different from the one I know and love. I guess it was good to know the real version of the story. But I honestly prefer the Disney version.
I found that upon reading these tales that I was not as familiar with them as I thought (the story of Ali Baba was much more violent than I had remembered it and parts of the voyages of Sinbad resembled those of Odysseus in Homer's Odyssey a bit more than I had recalled).
Even as an adult I see myself not putting the book down and diving into the sandy deserts of Arabia.
The story orientates around a kings anger at his former queen; who he had beheaded for not keeping her marital vows.
A advisor to the king had a daughter who he loved and believed had no choice but to give away.
His daughter accepted the kings hand, however had a plan to stop the kings wrath and began telling him stories, which would be in triad of another night of her life.The children would love it.
The layout of the book is brilliant.
it was a fun short read , filled with magic and happy endings .
In the Ali Baba story itself, a man gets quartered and the pieces hung around the door to the cave to discourage other potential thieves.
Later, when the thieves break into a house and are hiding in baskets to wait until night, a young woman pours boiling oil into each of the baskets to kill them.
The grand finale is the same young woman disemboweling the leader of the thieves at dinner.
Another story has Sindbad bashing in an old man's skull with a rock.Yes, and I had to read these with 8 and 9 year olds.
This book is very special. Even though i didn`t finish this book or even near the ending, it is a nice book. i never read a book like this, it is keep telling a tale after a tale and after a tale. It`s keeps going on and on to another tale. It is like a huge box and inside the box, there are another box ,inside the other box, there are more boxes. So this is my first time reading this kind of book. I think it is very intersting. I can`t wait what will happen later on....
This book is very special. Even though i didn`t finish this book or even near the ending, it is a nice book. i never read a book like this, it is keep telling a tale after a tale and after a tale. It`s keeps going on and on to another tale. It is like a huge box and inside the box, there are another box ,inside the other box, there are more boxes. So this is my first time reading this kind of book. I think it is very intersting. I can`t wait what will happen later on....
Though I knew of the Arabian Nights stories, I wasn’t super familiar with any of them prior to reading this.
I really enjoyed the stories included in this collection, and I’m definitely interested in learning more about Middle Eastern culture after this.I liked how the stories towards the beginning overlapped with each other and kept the connection going further and further.
Things kept escalating to comedic effect, but each story was still enjoyable on its own, too.
I’d definitely be open to reading the rest of the stories at some point.
This was such a magical, enchanting collection of stories. I liked every story that I read, could not find one I didn't like. But, my favorite stories were; the story of Prince Ahmed and the Fairy Perie Banou, the story of Ali Baba and the forty thieves, and of course, Aladdin and the magic lamp.
The original story is really weird and really different from the movie we all know, but it is still good!
A nice collection of elementary level versions of the more well known Arabian Nights stories. Enjoyable.
I was so disappointed. This book was boring and hard to get through.
Most of the other tales involve handsome princes and beautiful princesses who fall in love merely be seeing each other.
The tales are supposed to take place in Muslim countries, but there is a lot of wine drinking, which I believe the Islamic religion forbids.
The style in which these tales were written is forbidding, as the sentences are long and involved (not by any means as the introductory sentences in Tale of Two Cities, but not as clearly and coherently written either).
After 3 children and 1001 stories, Shahrazad requests of the King her life, and he grants her request (this is recounted in the Epilogue).
Also, we read this alongside http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/67...King Arthur which provided an excellent contrast for discussion of different cultures and worldviews.In conclusion, I cannot say this was "pleasant" or "enjoyable", and I was very happy when the day came in studying Arabian culture that we got to watch Disney's Aladdin and discuss art, architecture, speech/phrasing, references to Allah, clothing, etc.
brohter - woman - tales - farmer - fisherman - Jinee - story4.Q: When the person asks you to help him/her, would you help him/her who is not kind to you?
In this book, there are many interesting stories such as the tale of Fisherman and the Jinee.
When I knew that, I was so surprised and happy, so I can enjoy reading this book.2.
Q: What wish do you want to order to the jinnee?
I was surprised at there are some jinnees in the oridinal story and their color are different.
This point is the problem when I read this book.
What is a grown man doing reading Aladdin or the other tales of the Arabian Nights?
Unfortunately, however, what makes the Arabian Nights tales truly great is the frame story: Scheherazade telling stories to save her life.
The frame story then adds quality to all the other tales because of the stories told within the tales.
This edition of the Arabian Nights, as well as most editions of the Arabian Nights, don't include or even reference that frame story and it's a shame.As I said, the stories are rather good on their own.
Aladdin, in particular, is hardly anything like the version we are familiar with.
1-i liked it because it taught me a moral about life.
this taught me to never repay good with evil, and to mind my own business.
i had to remember who was telling each individual story and why were they telling the story.3-i learned that its good to mind your own business or you will be repentant in your actions.
i also learned to never repay good with evil because it will come back to bite u in the tushie.4-the most difficult thing about the story was the frame story snd understanding who was telling each story.
This collection includes several folk tales from India, Persia and Arabia, told within the framework of the Arabian Nights story, was translated directly from the original Arabic and intended for a younger audience, ages 10 and up.
The familiar story of Aladdin is just one of many tales the beautiful and accomplished Shahrazad tells her husband, a king who has been marrying – and killing – a new wife everyday.
But by keeping him entertained with stories of genies and kings, magicians and maidens, treasures and thieves, Shahrazad makes it through 1,001 nights, ultimately saving herself and the rest of the women in the kingdom from a gruesome fate.
1. Ladder Series Level32. 9/30=1203. king, brother, queen, executions, sesame, robbers, lamp4a. That afternoon the king was married, and the next morningthe wife was executed.4b. This is too much. He will kill many wifes. It's really terrible.5. There are three tales which the queen told the king not kill her in this book. I enjoyed all stories, but many people died in the stories. So when I finished reading, I was not good feeling. Arabian Night has more stories. I'm interested in any other stories not only three stories.
Aladdin and other Tales from the Arabian Nights is a very interesting book.
Every chapter is unique, but at the same time, they are related to one another.
My favorite part is the outter story (Shahrazad and Shahriyar), how Shahrazad convince Shahriyar to change without him noticing.
As a student, I learn a lot from this book.
Shahrazad told stories to Shahriyar, but we are also learning from it (moral: don't repay good with evil).
The most difficult part about this book is the frame story.
If you weren't paying attention to the details, you may get lost very easily in the story.
I think this book was quite interesting. I like the fact that there were stories inside of stories, telling characters about morals and hinting about what they're doing wrong. People can learn from their mistakes and learn about the good things to do in life. This book inspired me to tell stories about random things, but have a moral in it. If my sister is doing bad, I tell her to work harder and motivate them. I tell them the bad things of what they are doing now and good things if they change.
1.what did you like about the book? well it had manny parts to the story and i like when the fable leads to another fable2. what didnt you like about the book?to me it gets pretty confusing when each fable leads to another and whos telling the each story3. what did you learn from reading this book?one thing i learned from the fable the fisterman and the jinnee " dont repay good with evil" 4. what was difficult about this book? the difficult thing about this book is the same as number to you dont know who telling what story
Well, I can't say that this book was the best that i had read.
I enjoyed reading about the fables and the tales that taught something.
Eventhough this boook didn't grab my attention in the beginning, some of the strategies Shahrazad used to expressed the morals of the tales did surprise me.
I had thought that she was going to tales some individual tales with a few basic lessons to tell Shariyar.
The difficult part in reading this book was that it was sort of hard to NOT reading on and understanding the frame story part.
Overall I did enjoy reading the book.
while reading this book i learned that you should mind your own business like in the tale of the donkey, the ox and the farmer. I did kind of enjoy reading this book because through out the whole story every tale teaches a moral. and the only part that i didnt like was that at the end of every tale it left you hanging, just wanting to read the next tale.But i think if it wasnt for ms. jones i would of never read this book.
Even though this book has a tale within a tale within a tale, it's very interesting. The book keeps you entertained because after each tale, a new tale comes. The confusing thing about the book is that each tale connects to the first one. The book is really great because you learn new things form each tale. I recommend this book to everyone who loves to red. Even if you don't like to read, i recommend this book to you.
Honestly? Boring.I know the tale of Aladdin has been passed down over and over, and the version I read may just have been a block of text - but it had so little going for it. Sure, Aladdin meats a magician, talks with a genie, gets the girl. But everything is so easy for him.I actually prefer a little gusto in Aladdin, chasing the girl, coming clean about the genie - freeing the genie.Also, songs. And Robin Williams.
I thought this book was very interesting. I never read a frame story before but I hope they have similar characteristics as this book. I like how every story flowed into one another and flowed back into the prolugue story of King Shahriyar. I also like how each story has a lesson to teach Shahriyar and even the people in the sub-stories like the fisherman and the jinnee. I don't think there is anything I hate about this book.
I found this book really intresting and sort of fun. Its a preety good book that I would reread again or atleast finish reading the whole book. What I dont like from this book is;the name itslef. This is what made me think the book was going to be boring but it wasnt. I learned a lot from this book; it was plainly full of lessons. There was nothing really difficult. In the end I think this is a preety good and easy to read book.
I think the Arabian Nights was an interesting book but yet confusing. I didnt really understand it as much as I thought I would. Some of the tales were really entertaining and funny and I really enjoyed reading it. Some of the other tales werej just boring and confusing to me. In order to understand the book, you really have to pay attention closely to the details, the most simplest details are the most important details.
1. IBC Publishing level 32. 10/19 50min 10/20 35min3. poor, father, dead, lamp, magician, princess, kingdom4. a The next morning the Sultan was very surprised to wake up and see Aladdin's palace standing in the distance. b It was so surprising for the Sultan why palace is standing in the distance.5.I like ”Aladdin” of a disney movie. However, this story is different to that. Finally, it's good that Aladdin and princess become happy.
A fun and excellent series of adventures in a fantastical world of djinn and rocs and magic and morals, all for the purpose of taming a vindictive sultan and gently healing his heartbreak through the power of story. Reading this over the course of a year helped me find greater compassion for each of the different travelers I encounter and the patient wisdom to listen to their stories for what I can learn from them on my own journey.
