https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/116296.Making_Money
If this book were made into a movie, I’d expect that either Adam Sandler or Frank Capra would be a fitting director (preferably Sandler since Capra has been dead for over 25 years).Films like Mr. Smith Goes to Washington and Mr. Deeds capture the crowd pleasing best elements of Making Money, Pratchett’s 36th Discworld novel, Nebula Award nominee and Locus Award winner.
Again we visit with Pratchett’s loveable rogue Moist Von Lipwig and this time around Lord Vetinari has placed him in a leadership position with the Ankh-Morpork bank.As any reader of economics may attest, getting any two economists to agree is like herding cats into a bathtub – messy and potentially dangerous for all involved.
This is the follow-up to Going Postal, in which the former con-man Moist von Lipwig sets up the new Ankh-Morpork post office and thwarts the evil corporate wiles of the Clacks.When my co-workers asked me what I was reading, I told them, "It's a fantasy about....
Oh, we can pretend it's based on gold, which we think is valuable because it's rare, or shiny.
We can base it on anything we want, but the key is this - the paper in your wallet only has value because we all agree that it does.Now the reason this book isn't an economic treatise, of course, is because it has a plot.
Maybe it's that the main character, Going Postal's Moist von Lipwig, is a thoroughly reformed scallywag.
In Postal we all knew that he was going to realize that he had a heart of gold and do the right thing, but it was fun watching him discover it.
It's not bad -- I LLOLed* a few times -- but I've read better from Pratchett.* It's well documented that LOL, originally "Laugh(ed) Out Loud", has become completely devalued.
So I'm introducing LLOL -- Literally** Laughed Out Loud.** Of course, since literally is also already devalued from its original meaning, I may be fighting a losing battle here.
Making Money is the second book in the Moist von Lipwig subseries of Discworld.
I’m enjoying this subseries quite a bit; I’m sorry it only has three books.In this book, Moist von Lipwig finds himself unexpectedly involved in banking.
The way in which this happens is pretty amusing, and the situation provides many chuckles throughout the book.
I’m still really enjoying the character, and I also love that Lord Vetinari gets some decent page time in this subseries.
The story itself wasn’t super exciting, and I was never in any great suspense about what would happen next, but it was funny and held my attention throughout.
This is more or less a follow-up to Going Postal in which Moist von Lipwig is pressured into doing for the banking system what he has done for the post office.
Some great new characters in Fusspot, Chairman of the Bank (and a dog), Cosmo Lavish, head of the family that owns the bank and a Vetinari want-to-be, and Mr Bent, the chief cashier with a surprising past.
Moist's girl friend makes an appearance as does a long dead wizard and an economic modelling machine called the Glooper.
Not quite as brilliant as Going Postal, but vintage Pratchett nonetheless with plenty of laughs along the way.
The plot is a simplification of Going Postal: Vetinari ropes Moist into leaving his post as Postmaster and taking over as Assistant to the chairman of the Bank of Ankh-Morpork.
This is always presented to Moist in the negative sense: how his rash ideas that words and passions can save people more than sensibility and money can could destroy even Ankh-Morpork; it takes him a long time to see the flip side of that coin.On the downside, this isn't really anything excitingly new for Discworld.
“He sighed. It had come to this. He was a responsible authority, and people could use terms like "core values" at him with impunity. ” This was one of my favorites so far. SO many great quotes, and spot-on observations about our banking system.
Unless you can still actually remember Going Postal, in which case you'll probably have a weird sense of deja vu.Going Postal tried to make up for its being a basically thin and over-familiar installment of Discworld by being very well polished and very slick.
Making Money rewrites Going Postal, but less well polished, and less slick, which magnifies all of the faults already present in Going Postal, adds some more, and actually makes the earlier book look weaker in retrospect by association.
1 January, 2009I love these newer Discowurld books where Pratchett is bringing his creation into the industrial age.***June, 2009Where a science fiction author might use robots to examine the idea of gender, Pratchett uses golems. For some reason, I love that. I also really enjoy how most of his stories are about how humans use stories to make sense of the world around us.Library copy
Moist von Lipwig, tired after making the Post Office such as success in "Going Postal", is itching for a new challenge - Vetinari sees this and turns Lipwig onto the banks and currency.
Vetinari disappointingly is present through much of the book when before he would have a couple of pages at the beginning and a couple at the end.
Pratchett's always very sharp on his targets in Discworld but there doesn't seem to be a target here except that he wanted to introduce paper money to the citizens of Ankh Morpork which, really, he could have mentioned in a throwaway line in a better Discworld book ("What's this paper money for?
Another Discworld book.
Pratchett's books ooze wit and repartee from every page, and to me his work bears comparison with the traditional standard bearers of British humour such as Carry On films, Monty Python or The GoonsOne little example from this book that warms the cockles of any red blooded Englishman.
See https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/greeng...As was once said "I get down on my knees every night and thank God for making me an Englishman" https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alfred_...Moist von Lipwig is a con artist and a thief, so what better job for him than the head of the Bank of Ankh Morpork.
To date Moist has to be my favourite character in the limited amount of Discworlds I have read and still retains the award for worst named character ever (no official award has been produced to my knowledge).
In the previous outing Moist took on the troubles of the Post Office, this time he takes on the issues with the banks.
I’ve only read a handful and I definitely felt the experience would have improved with some more information on characters cropping up.
So whilst a book about banking might not get you salivating with anticipation, this is definitely worth your time.
I've read 5 Discworld books. The ranking is as follows1. Going Postal2. Monstrous Regiment3. Color of Magic4. Making Money5. The Light Fantastic
But f**k it, this is where I decided to start.I already knew lots of stuff from this series cause I have friends who LOVE Discworld and they have been taking to me about this for ages.So, when I got to this books, I already had some background on the world, and, let's be honest, the knowledge I needed to understand this book is not that big of a deal, any decent reader with some working brain cells can connect the dots after a while.But let's talk about the interesting part...the book.I'm just gonna say this...
I LOVED EVERY SINGLE PART OF THIS BOOK.There it is.
1/6/17: I re-read this as an audiobook as a test of the library's Overdrive system with my new phone and was surprised to see, when it's read aloud, how much there is of the Patrician in this book.
And Briggs' default generic voice is Sort Of Scandinavian Or Something, which is just weird.)Anyway, what I said below still goes, except for the final sentence, since now we know we got Raising Steam instead of the implied book about reforming the Ankh-Morpork tax system.
I've only read that one once, which probably says something about how I liked it.Read 8/12/10: Of all the Discworld novels, the ones featuring Moist von Lipwig are my favorites.
There is a saying that you can only tell the truth through fiction and it seems that Terry Pratchett is a believer of that saying. An ex-con is blackmailed into becoming the head of the Ank-Morpork's bank and is actually very good at it. Funny, mischievious and witty this book critisizes the modern world of the recession and the banking dominance.
Although, it often didn’t seem to matter because the less intellectual reviewers always seemed to find what they wanted to find in the story when they reviewed it at length even if it wasn’t actually there.Or to put it even more plainly, nothing objectively separates the reading of works of literature from listening to that preeminent entertainer of our day Rush Limbaugh.
Sure, they are saying it so covertly that many readers probably don’t even notice it there and even I didn’t notice it there at first, and didn’t really notice it until I learned of their beliefs and really started digging for it, but its not I think random that my favorite authors would turn out to be people whose beliefs about the world basically agree with my own.
Pratchett attempted to avoid Moist doing exactly what he did in Going Postal by having him deal with other challenges, but they were a mishmash of ideas that didn’t seem to come together and pages were wasted with the Cosmo Lavish subplot that took up pages without really accomplishing anything.Honestly, it was hard to rate Making Money because while I enjoyed reading Moist’s point-of-view, the overall plot of the book was just serviceable as it twist and turned based on the questionable subplots intertwined with it.
However, this book and it's predecessor, Going Postal, are the only two of the 38 book series nominated for the Nebula award.
One problem is probably that I have not read Going Postal, and a portion of the humor in this book is really just reminders of past humor, as in "Hey, remember how funny it was when ...
happened?" One theory I've heard is that these have been honorary career-based nominations, not justified by the current books themselves.
Based just on the two I've now read, Mort and Making Money, I could agree.If you're going to read this, you really do need to read Going Postal first.
Not only did it take me a good few pages to stop laughing at Moist Von Lipwigs name but it has produced two of the best lines I have read in ages:'He somersaulted happily around the floor making faces like a rubber gargoyle in a washing machine' and 'the girl could flounce better than a fat turkey on a trampoline'.
The family that runs the main Ankmorpork Bank is doing so in a spectacularly bad way, so what is the Patrician to do but use the same man that brought order and productivity to the Post Office.
There are clowns, dogs, assassins, igors, golems and (my favourite) CMOT Dibbler to enhance the story and keep you laughing for hours.I cannot recommend this book highly enough.
Edit 10/mumble: I finished this a while ago. After reading some earlier Pratchett recently, this shone like a very shiny literary thing. Massively enjoyable. Unfortunately, since it's been a couple weeks since I finished it, I can't give a detailed review. It lived up to my expectations, though, which is always appreciated.Edit 10/05: Got it today from the library. Mwah ha ha.OLD: Technically I'm not reading this, but I'm first on the holding list for the library, and the librarian currently reading it promises me she is reading as fast as she can. It will be mine shortly, oh yes.
I find the rating of this book difficult. On one hand, it is Discworld, and Discworld is just always awesomest! On the other hand, I liked it less than many other Discworld-novels. It felt a little like there had to be thought of something to keep Moist going, and the bank was as good as the rest. Still, I loved the side-characters, it was great to meet Vetinari and Vimes again!
I don't think I like this one as much as Going Postal, but I do really enjoy the Moist von Lupwig books.
I did spend a fair bit of this book wishing there was slightly less golem, although the payoff was kind of worth it.
(view spoiler)[The're moving to a golem standard, HEH.
(hide spoiler)] And I really enjoy Igor in this (the Igors are generally pretty great).
(view spoiler)[Love that Mr. Fusspot stays with Vetinari in the end.
(hide spoiler)]And Vetinari and Moist are a fun dynamic, love them almost as much as Vimes and Vetinari.
I’ve read a lot of Discworld books over the years, and Making Money is up there with the best.
Moist von Lipwig proves yet again that he is one of the most entertaining characters on the Disc, because of his ingenuity and penchant for doing things that aren’t exactly in line with the law.
Adora Belle is a great character in her own right as well, and her relationship with Lipwig is fantastic.
Between this and Going Postal, it’s hysterical to see Sir Terry draw upon some of the basic technological competencies of our world and apply it as brand new to Discworld.
Klasicky zábavná a oddechová kniha ze série Zeměplochy, tentokrát o Vlahošovi von Rosretovi, který se snaží rozpohybovat zkostnatělou Ankh-Morporskou banku. Oproti sérii s Hlídkou či Čarodějkami slabší, ale stále dobrá. Vetinari, golemové a hlídka included!
Auch wenn Schöne Scheine schon von der Figurenkonstellation und der Gesellschaftskritik frappante Ähnlichkeit mit "Ab die Post" aufweist, hat es mir trotzdem bei weitem nicht so gut gefallen.
Dies kann zwar daran liegen, dass ich mich in der Telekom Branche viel eher zu Hause fühle als im Bankwesen, ich glaube aber nicht, dass es daran liegt, schliesslich habe ich Betriebswirtschaft und VWL studiert und mir ist das Metier gar nicht fremd.
Fazit: Gute Unterhaltung, aber mit viel zu wenig Biss in der Gesellschaftskritik in Bezug auf das Thema Banken verwirklicht, da der Börsenhandel ausgespart wurde.
spoiler warning for Going Postal.The post office is running merrily alone -- Moist has even had to testified against a forger who made stamps -- and Moist's fiancee Adora Belle Dearheart is out doing something for the Golem Trust.
And someone is trying to break into the Post Office building.Turns out it's Moist, who is bored.Well, the Patrician has a job offer -- running the mint -- and Moist declines, most decidedly, but alas, he has come to the attention of the chairman, a very old widow.
Not, for me, quite as good as Going postal, I think because the elements did feel more disparate, but I really liked Moist's championing of the value of money being tied to the life of the city than to gold ...
((view spoiler)[which was then somewhat undercut by the Glooper's replacement of the gold at the very end, but it made for a cute example of the model changing reality, so I guess I can forgive it (hide spoiler)]).
We suspect Pratchett was thinking of Moist perhaps even as a future Patrician.
I was expecting more from Moist von Lipvig - his ordeals at the bank didn't seem as dire as his fight with the Grand Trunk in  Going Postal, so he didn't really shine as much as he could have.Maybe it's just because Going Postal is one of my favorite Discworld novels that the sequel seemed so off.
But a lot of the book seemed...
I felt like I had read this book before as I was reading it.
Vetinari got more 'screen time' than normal this book, so my inner fangirl was happy.
It is about banking and it is interesting!I think I liked this one better than Going Postal.
I didn't find Moist to be a very interesting character in that one, and I still don't after this, but he has his moments.
And Adora Belle is just kind of...meh.
I like the idea of her, but the execution doesn't really do anything for me.But!
The other characters!
Gladys!
Mr. Fusspot!
Topsy!
And Mr. Bent!
I loved Mr. Bent so very much.
And this was such a good book for Vetinari too.
