https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32075854-magpie-murders
This is to be his last case.Atticus finds himself in Saxby on Avon, helping Inspector Raymond Chubb in what appears to be two murders, a cleaning woman, Mary Blakiston, and the beheading of Sir Magnus at Pye Hall.
Susan turns amateur detective and goes in search of the missing chapters and Alan's murderer.
She finds numerous connections between the Atticus novel, for example, Alan was also dying.
Susan cannot find the missing chapters and concludes that they must contain clues to Alan's killer.
We discover where the final chapters are and who killed Magnus and Alan.This is a stunning novel from Anthony Horowitz.
She plans to spend her weekend reading the manuscript of Alan Conway’s latest Atticus Pudd mystery, entitled ‘Magpie Murders’.
The reader is allowed to read along with Susan, and pretty soon I found myself enjoying an absorbing historical mystery, set in the mid-fifties, the style of which bears a strong resemblance to that of Agatha Christie.
Her inquires soon leads her to realize ‘Magpie Murders’ holds the clue to why Alan Conway, died, and to where those the missing chapters are.
I read mysteries long before I dabbled in horror, or fell in love with romance novels.
Money and fame gushed in, enough money Alan could finally quit his dreaded teaching job and enough fame the publishing industry and the public clamored for more whodunits featuring Alan’s phenomenal Inspector Atticus Pünd, a detective right up there with the immortals, a detective to be mentioned in the same breath with Sherlock Holmes.But money and fame came with a price: Alan Conway had to abandon his dreams of becoming a serious literary writer, another Salman Rushdie or Martin Amis.
What is it about Anthony Horowitz’s writing that sets me to thinking about books and my love of them?
I am often compelled to have a book right away, even when I know I may not get to it for a while.
I love knowing that it is right there, easily available when I am ready.
Oh my goodness I do love books, in all shapes, styles and configurations.
It is the kind of story that you know right from the get go that you can settle into and get comfortable.
Magpie Murders is a cleverly crafted, superbly plotted, classic whodunnit mystery with a brilliant twist.   “Whodunnits are all about truth: nothing more, nothing less. In a world full of uncertainties, is it not inherently satisfying to come to the last page with every i dotted and every t crossed? The stories mimic our experience in the world. We are surrounded by tensions and ambiguities, which we spend half our life trying to resolve, and we’ll probably be on our own deathbed when we reach
It is the reason for their existence.” The story begins with Susan Ryeland, editor at a small publishing company, reading the Magpie Murders, which is latest book in the popular Atticus Pund mystery series written by Allan Conway.
Susan lets the reader know that reading the manuscript caused her to lose friends and changed her life forever.
Once Susan is finished reading the manuscript, the reader is jolted back into Susan’s story where we discover the manuscript is incomplete and Conway has died.
A must read for all who love whodunnits!
Especially the two separate stories running next to each other make it a really good read.
Number of pages of this book pretty confusing because of this :-)I hesitated about this one to start, but yes, definitely good crime read.
And this writer has produced a lot of (different) work I see, so lots to explore further.
Recommended, great start of the year, 'cracking' read!
The story: Editor Susan Ryland has worked with bestselling crime writer Alan Conway for years.
The first half, the book within, switches from one person to another every few pages.
His new manuscript is missing its ending and as she hunts for it she also end up investigating Alan’s death.
As Susan says “I was investigating a murder which, as far as I knew, nobody else was aware had taken place.” Alan used people and places from his own life to populate his books.
Susan uses the manuscript to ferret out clues to Alan’s life and vice versa.
This book is perfect for those who like their mysteries complicated and convoluted.
The original matryoshka set by Zvyozdochkin and Malyutin, 1892 (Wikipedia)###Matryoshka dolls. That is what this novel reminds me of. You read a whodunnit, and as you think you are coming to grips with the story another whodunnit pops up, and another…Prepare yourself for codes, anagrams and acrostics, for ”tricks and trompe l’oeils” and for events that are mirror images of other events.Brilliant! Nesting of Matryoshka dolls (Wikipedia)
Traveling Sister Group Read with Brenda, Lindsay, Susanne, JanB, Holly, Linda, Jaline and PorshaJo4.5 stars rounded up to 5 stars!This book was such a fun, enjoyable, well-plotted, and a brilliantly written novel that was an extremely intriguing Golden Age style mystery that had a mystery novel structured into a mystery novel. Which I found quite satisfying and exciting to read! I loved that I was reading a book within a book! Would highly recommend!All of our Traveling Sisters Reviews can be found on our sister blog:http://www.twogirlslostinacouleereadi...
BlurbWhen editor Susan Ryeland is given the tattered manuscript of Alan Conway's latest novel, she has little idea it will change her life.
It's just a shame that it means dealing with an author like Alan Conway...But Conway's latest tale of murder at Pye Hall is not quite what it seems.
It hooked me in and I kept guessing who the murderer was.Now the second book kind of bored me.
I enjoyed it but I really wasn't drawn into it like I was in the first book.
I did enjoy it, but it was not really a thriller, which I love.
Simply substitute your favorite beverage and snack of choice, perhaps a guilty pleasure, your preferred reading retreat, and you can immediately relate to the allure of an escape with one of your treasured books.
I immediately knew I would love this unique and very clever read by Anthony Horowitz!This is really a brilliant mix of both a golden age whodunit with more of a contemporary crime mystery.
A novel nested within another, Magpie Murders is a real page-turner; and I would be hard-pressed to say which thread I loved more – that of private detective Atticus Pünd or of Susan Ryeland, editor at Cloverleaf Books.
5+++ stars!!! Brilliant! Unique! Fantastic! Loved this book! This was such a unique and outstanding story! A book within a book - it doesn't get any better than that!! I am so impressed with this author, Anthony Horowitz's, talent and creativity in developing and constructing this remarkable novel. The flow and format of this book were exceptional - simply brilliant!I cannot recommend this book highly enough! It's definitely one of my favourites of 2017! To find our full Traveling Sister Read review, please visit Brenda and Norma's fabulous blog at:https://twogirlslostinacouleereading....
The Hook - This quote from a main character, Susan Reyland, sums up my love of a good mystery and says it all:” I’ve always loved whodunnits.
You read and you read and you feel the pages slipping through your fingers until suddenly there are fewer in your right hand than there are in your left and you want to slow down but you still hurtle on towards a conclusion you can hardly bear to discover.
Magpie Murders, one of the mysteries is the 9th in a series by author Alan Conway.
I adore vintage crime novels and, having read this, I feel that Horowitz has done an excellent job in combining the fun of those mysteries with a more modern take.The story begins in present day London, with Susan Ryeland, Head of Fiction at Cloverleaf Books, about to read the latest Atticus Punt mystery by their bestselling author, Alan Conway.
The story of her Poirot like detective, Atticus Punt; a German who survived the war and is now a private investigator in 1950’s England, who is asked to investigate the death of a local village busy-body.Having finished the book, Susan discovers the ending is missing and, almost at the same time, she discovers that Alan Conway has died.
It was selected by a big group of lovely ladies for our Traveling Sisters read, which made this one even more fun to guess along the way and compare notes.A tip for readers...don't read reviews on this book (as she writes this in her review, huh)!
It can be confusing because you are reading a book about a person reading a book within the story.
At first, I was so confused listening....remember you are reading a book about a person reading a book within the story.
Anthony Horowitz is writing the new James Bond novel that will appear in the summer of 2018.
And he has been given pieces of Fleming’s unpublished writing to include in the books he is authoring.
Horowitz also authored the last ‘Official’ Bond novel 2015’s “Trigger Mortis” which I enjoyed.“Magpie Murders” is the title of this book within a book.
It also happens to be the ninth and final installment of fictional author Alan Conway’s internationally best-selling Atticus Pünd mystery series.
Horowitz was the screen writer of “Agatha Christie's Poirot” a British TV series from 1991 – 2001.
Though I’m usually up for a game of Cluedo if I turn on the TV and there’s a whodunnit on I immediately change the channel.
I’m not sure why since I’ve never read a whodunnit novel or watched a whodunnit series.
An easy way of evaluating any novel is to compare the time consumed reading it and the nourishment received.
Once I’ve skipped even a sentence in a novel I’m reading it triggers a willingness, even an eagerness to skip whole passages.
In some ways whodunnits are like crossword puzzles – too welded and tidy for my liking.
Again of little interest to me, I’m afraid.
Anthony Horowitz uses all the creative color names and he doesn't close the lid of the box until the very end.If you've read any mysteries by Horowitz (The Word Is Murder), you know that he likes to insert a pistol in the carved-out pages of his books.
Susan now finds herself locked in as she begins reading and we find ourselves looking over her shoulder.It's 1955 in a small English village in the shadows of Pye Hall.
One character, Mary Blakiston, will be short-lived as she finds herself with a broken neck at the bottom of the stairway at Pye Hall.
Conway’s bestselling series is Cloverleaf Books bread and butter so when she finds that the last chapter of the new mystery is missing, she is upset and alarmed and the reader may find themselves a little puzzled too.
Susan's puzzlement soon turns to panic when Conway’s body is found.I really enjoyed the read and while I am not a fan of the " Who Done It Style Novel" Have to say I really enjoyed the suspense and the style in which the novel was written.
Enjoyable English Whodunnit with a twist -- a clever little story in a story that uncovers the "who" exactly dunnit in a full list of suspects (that could all be straight out of a game of Clue).
Horowitz includes a nod to some of the great writers of mysteries, and sprinkles in a good shake of red herrings to keep you away from any quick conclusion.
For fans of the genre, this is a well written respectable read that's not a bad way to spend a couple of afternoons.
Overall, I regret that I didn't find a memorable character in this immense cast, and eventually I found myself reading just to quench a curiosity more lazy than intrigued.
I loved this book. A mystery within a mystery. One of the best books I've read this year. Actually sad that it ended. No skimming allowed with this book. I have recommended this book to everyone I know. It’s so well written and intelligent. I have struggled to find books of this caliber and can only hope that Anthony Horowitz never stops writing.
Wow, I thoroughly enjoyed Magpie Murders, a suspenseful British story that revolves around a book within a book.
As she reads Conway’s latest manuscript, for ‘Magpie Murders’ Susan realizes pages are missing, leaving the latest mystery open-ended.
I liked both the story of Magpie Murders and the book within the book.
I was drawn to the publishing industry aspects, as well as the real life murder mystery, and the mystery within the ‘Magpie Murders’ manuscript.
I wouldn’t say this book was a fast-paced thriller, but it was suspenseful and well-paced; one that I really enjoyed trying to figure out as I read along.
Traveling Sister Group Read with Norma, Lindsay, Susanne, JanB, Holly, Linda, Jaline and PorshaJoWe read Magpie Murders with seven of our Traveling Sisters and it brought out one of the best and most fun group discussions we have had yet.
A fantastic playful whodunit with satisfying twists and turns and many red herrings for us to ponder and discuss with our Traveling Sisters.
We all loved the setting and the atmosphere of the small, quaint English Village where everyone knows everyone and everyone has a secret.We really enjoyed sharing clues, our suspicions, red herrings and keeping track of the suspects.
It begins with editor Susan Ryeland who has received the final manuscript of a popular mystery series starring detective Atticus Pünd (not very subtly reminiscent of Hercule Poirot;-) Then comes the novel itself and it is quite a good little Golden Age caper.
Then something happens (not spoilers here!) and Susan finds herself in the middle of a very real mystery.I enjoyed the dual parts of this novel, and Horowitz is a clever, truly eloquent writer who is able to capture different voices and settings with apparent ease.
Susan was a well-developed character and so was the (even more fictional?) Atticus Pünd.
It is fascinating and filled with enough suspects, clues, and red herrings to make any classic mystery fan happy.
(I’m putting my hand up here!)The mystery that Susan becomes involved in solving is more along modern lines – and the tension is strung a little tighter.
There are still suspects, clues, and red herrings, but the pace gradually speeds up, the tautness intensifies, and there are a few heart-racing moments.I do not want to give the plot(s) away as I know there are many people who want to read this.
Even if you are not a fan of mysteries, this book is worth reading just to experience a master writer’s spellbinding work!
This story contains a classic mystery within a contemporary mystery and what an engaging ride!
Susan plans to spend her weekend reading the manuscript for the new Atticus Pünd book named the 'Magpie Murders', as she reaches the end of the novel she discovers the last chapters where the crime is resolved are missing!
If you are a fan of classic mysteries such as those of Agatha Christie, then you will likely enjoy this novel.
If you are a fan of contemporary thrillers then you will also enjoy this novel because it contains both elements!
True, a mystery novel is at the heart of this book.
The mystery is encased in another story, a bookending story told by Conway's editor that links real life with the characters in Conway's cozy yet murderous English village.
The world of the cozy mystery is oddly linked with the literary world of writers, publishers, editors, and...
And Horowitz makes an appearance (much like Graeme Macrae Burnet did in His Bloody Project) at the end, which I found playful and tongue in cheek.The book is just as much about murder as it is about a writer's ego, and the stigma the mystery genre has endured from readers and writers alike.
The idea of having a book within a book was clever but initially confusing to someone who is listening to the audio version as I was.
The Atticus story was written in the style of an Agatha Christie novel and was interesting and well done.
The Susan story was not quite as good and on my audio version it came with a change in narrator who was also not quite as good.Reading back over what I have written, my opinion seems to have been influenced heavily by the fact that I listened to the book.
Here's how it works:Susan Ryeland, a fiction editor at London's 'Cloverleaf Books', is reading the manuscript of 'Magpie Murders' - the ninth book in Alan Conway's Atticus Pünd mystery series.
These include Sir Magnus's disenfranchised sister; his cheating wife; the vicar and his spouse; the doctor; the cleaning lady; Mary's estranged husband; and so on.Pund and Chubb question persons of interest, collect clues, speculate about this and that.....and Pünd eventually reaches a conclusion.*********Editor Susan Ryeland is about to read the final chapters of Magpie Murders - where Pünd reveals all - when she realizes the last section of the manuscript is missing.
Actually 3.5 stars.I enjoyed this but I did have a few problems with it.This is the story of Susan Ryeland, who is an editor working at Cloverleaf Books.
The manuscript is one book, and has its own page count, and Susan's story is another book, which also has its own page count.
Like I said a niggly little problem, but it annoyed me, I don't know why exactly.Also, I actually did figure everything out quite early on, so that did affect my enjoyment of the book when I realised I was right!But I would still recommend this book, I think.
