https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/531262.A_Handful_of_Dust
"'I never thought it would last but she seems really keen on it . . . I suppose it's a good plan . . . there wasn't much for her to do at Hetton. Of course she would rather die than admit it, but I believe she got a bit bored there sometimes. I've been thinking it over and that's the conclusion I came to. Brenda must have been bored.'" Kristin Scott Thomas adds sizzle to the 1988 movie version as Brenda.Tony and Brenda Last have been married for seven years and although they don’t have a fiery p
They live on the Last family country estate named Hetton Abbey, an ugly neo-gothic creation that would need to wait a few decades more before coming back into fashion.
This starts to create some friction with young Beaver.”You are one for making people learn things.”Beaver goes along as she is paying for most of their expenses as they start appearing in society together.
Tony does the best he can to believe her.Beaver as far as society is concerned is just a family friend.
My feelings for Tony changed and by the end it felt like each got what they deserved.
This leads to a completely absurd scene in which the cold fish Tony attempts to get himself caught being unfaithful so Brenda can get one.One section near the end, set in Brazil and completely inappropriate and wrong in its treatment of natives (there are many instances throughout of inappropriate remarks), at first seems absurd, but when bits of dialogue from the previous 200 pages crop up, you get to see how carefully Waugh has crafted the book.
What’s remarkable is that beneath the exaggeration, there’s a brutal examination of the horrible things people are capable of doing – to themselves and each other.In one of the silliest scenes, two adults play a children's card game where they're reduced to making animal noises.
No, the truly interesting thing is that this genre often employs the word 'cuckold' in its titles, as if this were five-cent, everyday, low-rent kinda word.
Not in the sense of two people in a relationship agreeing to fuck other people with the other's knowledge (which is their own perogative, I suppose), but in the sense of a spouse or partner being kept in the dark, lied to, and possibly publicly humiliated by his/her 'soulmate.' So that's what makes Evelyn Waugh's A Handful of Dust a particularly bitter satirical pill to swallow.
Reading Waugh is like being air-kissed by a socialite who clutches your shoulder in mock affection with one hand while raising an ice-pick behind your back with the other.
Won't you two join us, or are we de trop?"They went together into the glittering lounge."I'm cold like hell," said Baby.
"We'll soon warm you up," he said"This place stinks of yids, " said Baby.
"I always think that's the sign of good hotel, don't you?" said Tony."Like hell," said Baby.These people are so awful you can't look away.
And Waugh is so brilliant you can't stop reading.
Brilliant, but its sparkle is ice cold. It's clever that the naive and saintly Tony is seamlessly recast as the villain of the piece - not just by his wife Brenda, but by most of their friends too. But Brenda is the evil one, most dramatically demonstrated by a misplaced "Thank God". It sounds innocuous, but in context, it's one of the most chilling lines I've ever read. Reading Dickens in the jungle for eternity: would that be heaven or hell?
I can eat them up but I get no nourishment from them.Perhaps my appetite has been spoiled by the image of Waugh in his old age living a mock-aristocratic life, drinking too much, his wife - also an Evelyn - who had affection only for a discrete herd of pedigree cattle.
His fictions seem pale intimations of the life he eventually managed to achieve for himself which makes the idea of viewing them as satires, or comedies or even tragedies as strange.
The inventiveness of people in discovering new degrees of strangeness is unending (hide spoiler)].Anyhow this was one of my A-level set texts back in the day.
Perhaps one simply doesn't see them close enough to know their own deep faultiness: Mrs. Rattery (view spoiler)[not the dumb blonde floozy everyone has assumed, but an aviatrix as happy wih an evening playing patience alone as being the nexus of a pary, and with admirable crisis management abilities (hide spoiler)], or Colonel Inch, the laid-back Master of the Hunt: he himself was seldom in sight of hounds and could often be found in another part of the country morosely nibbling ginger nut biscuits in a lane.)The advice and actions of the solicitors later in the story, IMO, make it ultimately ambiguous who thinks who is to blame; Waugh's is a world of surfaces and people may be saying what they think they need to say to procure the right evidence - either way it also looks like (coincidentally like Hard Times, which I read towards the end of last year) an indictment of the divorce laws of the time.
Oh what fun to get directly to the root of modern British wit.
Okay, okay: the Victorian conventions still resonate, but Waugh loves dialogue as much as any screenwriter--it's modernity & old school gorgeously entwined.
Indeed, pages upon pages of dialogue--at times the speakers themselves become insanely irrelevant--invites a speedy and satisfying reading of it.
The strands of dialogue themselves are in the spotlight...
what is being said (the ideas unraveled, the conventions and hypocrisies deliciously deliberate and FUnnY) is what holds this tale of infidelity together.
Lovers of language, of a tongue that's all but dusty, must read Waugh POSTE HASTE!
If anyone could make the tale of a failing marriage and estate something I’d want to read, it would be him.Just as with « Brideshead », it’s hard not to feel like you have just landed in the middle of an episode of « Downton Abbey » : everyone has dressing rooms, frequents clubs and seems to have not a care in the world besides their own amusement.
Sure, both novels are about human trainwrecks, but I thought Charles, Sebastian, Julia and even Lady Marchmain were more nuanced and multilayered than Tony, Brenda and that silly Mr. Beaver.
The novel begins on a light witty note but the flippancy slips darkly into sadness that finally wraps the gothic world in a shroud of grief.Tony Last is a British aristocrat who lives with his wife Brenda and young son in their ancestral home in Hetton Abbey.
(view spoiler)[Restive and bored, Brenda entertains John Beaver at their home when he responds to a half-hearted invitation from Tony.
Even though Tony is unhappy with Brenda spending so much time in London without him, he never communicates his dislike to her because it is bad social form to express one’s feelings.
Evelyn Waugh's writing is delightfully (and spitefully) mischievous. He's as witty as Oscar Wilde and as caustic as drain cleaner.Something of a pessimist and a social misfit, Waugh loved to send up the chattering classes of which he was a part. This book also has an autobiographical aspect to it and centres on his inside view of upper class selfishness and the erosion of spiritual values in post-WWI England.
The perfection of this novel lays only in its title, for a handful of dust is the exact description of the reading experience it provides and to some extent, its content.
The fragile remains of the barely lively activity called reading this book would be swept away with the last page, if not for the purpose of writing this review.
Their final destinatiom sure is surprising and constitutes one of the best parts of the novel, but before we reach it, gossip serves as the only tool to get in touch with them.
As it is with gossip, it slips away with the change of perspective.
Bored-Privileged-Socialites orA Biting Satire of British Upper-Class Society Between the Two Wars orInfidelity--Marriage Without LoveThere you have three one-liners that describe this book.The two central protagonists are Brenda and Tony Last.
Both the humor and the entire book has a dark undertone.Adulterous behavior describes the entire content of the first half of the book.
The bottom line is that this book is a repeat of the zillion other books about unfaithful couples.The writing comes to the fore when the setting shifts to Brazil.
It was a bore, with a sprinkling of a few good lines of prose.
One weekend, a young man named John Beaver holds Tony to a casual invitation made for him to visit Hetton.
An affair begins and Brenda decides to get an apartment in London to make it easier for her to spend time with Beaver.
He refuses to pay the money that Brenda and her family try to squeeze out of him and decides to take a six month trip, allowing Brenda to think about what she has done.Tony's trip takes him to Brazil with a strange doctor named Messinger.
Meanwhile in London, Brenda has no money, so Beaver and her friends all leave her to her misery.
The title is from The Waste Land:“I will show you something different from eitherYour shadow at morning striding behind youOr your shadow at evening rising to meet you;I will show you fear in a handful of dust.”This is satire, comedy and farce mixed with the absurd; again I get the sense that Waugh delights in disliking his characters.
Waugh often said that A Handful of Dust was really about the bankruptcy of humanism.
This is a story of human selfishness, but perhaps Waugh does paint Tony Last with some sympathy; especially as Waugh’s marriage had recently ended.
Waugh’s novel makes me think of a curious little pen knife kept under plate glass display at an antique shop: a decorative little handle, perhaps delicately wrought in chrome, looking charmingly innocuous nestled among the moldering paste jewelry and assorted tchotchkes.
And yet, despite their obvious foibles I actually liked both Brenda and Tony Last, Downton Abbey-esque minor aristocracy whose happy-seeming seven year marriage suddenly but somewhat understandably begins to spiral.
Given the obvious technical mastery on display, I should have had more confidence in authorial control when the last third of the novel juts out into unexpected territory; I admit that for a while I was worried the story had gone irremediably awry just like the Last’s marriage.
If so, Waugh certainly had his revenge , as he bitterly skewers his ex-wife, and her lover, in print.Brenda and Tony Last have been married for five, or six, years, when we meet them.
When John Beaver - a scrounging young man, who lounges around bars hoping to be brought a drink, has no job and little income, but is a useful ‘spare man,’ ready to drop everything for a free lunch, or dinner party - takes up a half meant invitation for the weekend, Tony is appalled at his arrival.
I read – and loved – Brideshead Revisited years ago, and once again we’re among the English upper classes, whom Waugh mocks more or less constantly throughout the novel, which is especially apparent in some of the ludicrous but funny dialogues.
Maybe that’s why most of the characters seemed flat and stereotypical and why we’re not really asked to relate to them.
Most of the novel takes place at Hetton, Tony’s Gothic country mansion, and in London, where it’s all one big party and who is doing what with whom etc.
(In a world increasingly cursed with ever increasing life spans and a boom in dementia perhaps this really is a myth for our times) There are going to have to be some spoilers in this one, I’m afraid – so before I do those, you might want to know what I thought about this book and whether or not I would recommend it.
(this is an edit of a review from 2009)i found this to be much, much better than the two other waugh books i read: vile bodies, and the loved one.
the last quarter of the book seems almost a sequel to the first part, and left a darkness in its wake.
update:that last quarter ending i have since found had also been published previously and separately as a short story called "the man who liked dickens".
they feel like two different works, i think.(when the lovely mariel left a comment, i did a bit more research and found a link to a paris review interview with waugh.
Because, like Auden's elderly friends at a twilight gathering in the final poem of his great song cycle The Quest - his version of the age-old quest for meaning (you really should read it!) - I have felt my "centre of volition shift." As I age, the illusions are now much less comforting than is Eliot's "condition of complete simplicity, costing not less than everything." The condition of the faithful.Yes, when you've lost it all - as all of us will - you'll find it all, if you keep your faith.
Although they were both in good health and of unexceptional figure, Tony and Brenda were on a diet. It gave an interest to their meals... 'Yes, darling, and when we get tired of it we might try an alphabetical diet, having things beginning with a different letter each day.' At the heart of this book is the ill-matched marriage of Brenda and Tony Last ('she's lovely, he's rather a stick') - he obsessed with his family seat and the money it takes to keep up, forcing his wife to travel in the 3rd
Then, at almost exactly the mid-point, Waugh pulls off a stunt which left me breathless: a kick-in-the-guts moment which reveals something essential about the characters.The last third feels like we've wandered into another book altogether, a bit Graham Greene, a bit Somerset Maugham, even a bit Scoop as Tony turns into an explorer and goes off into the Amazon...So there's something a bit Frankenstein's monster about this overall, as if it's made up of limbs hewn from other bodies.
Given that this is often seen as 'the divorce book' based on Waugh's own broken marriage, it's surprisingly not as savage as I expected, and Tony is ultimately given no more of a get-out clause than is Brenda.
I'm obviously in the minority with my rating.
I've read a number of reviews here (after finishing the book) and am not convinced of its worth.When I began reading this novel, I thought I might enjoy it.
I get that it was supposed to be a satire - and a bitter one - but, for me at least, there was nothing there worth satirizing.On the back cover of the edition I read is the mention: "A Handful of Dust (was) selected by the Modern Library as one of the 100 best novels of the twentieth century." I wonder what those folks were on when they made that selection?Out of my house and off to the library sale with this one.
Or are the upper class simply ripe for satire?
There is no one to like here except Mrs. Rattery, who plays 4-pack solitaire as her way of dealing with the chaos of the death, the chaos of everything.
And nobody in the book likes her.
But they like each other: everyone but Mrs. Rattery can smell a rat a mile away.
A book jacket blurb tells us that this is "Waugh at his most scathing," but I'm not clear on this point: the English are indeed, at this point of time, numb.
Mind you, they must have also felt huge relief once the money was in the bank.This is also a time when many rich people lived for their social lives (not having to trouble themselves with a job), when debutantes still ‘came out’ at balls (a system whereby young women were ‘introduced into society’, i.e. declared their availability for marriage), when lunching at the club or dining with ones friends was the highlight of their day.
It concerns a husband who feels the weight of his responsibilities as the ‘Lord of the Manor’, which he rather likes, and who loves his large but not very attractive or particularly historical house.
Se non avessi avuto il conforto dell'amica Stela, e della sua (come sempre) utilissima recensione (vedi qui), probabilmente avrei interrotto la lettura di questo romanzo poco prima della metà.
Nella lettura si cerca sempre, consapevolmente o meno, una qualche forma di riscatto: sociale, morale, caratteriale, esistenziale; oppure un momentaneo sollievo dal presente.
Ebbene: qui non si trova traccia né dell'una né dell'altra cosa, anzi: l'aridità e la stupidità colpevole sono letteralmente sbattute in faccia al lettore, senza cerimonie né commenti.
La qualità brillante dell'idea d'autore viene a galla nella seconda parte, quando gli esiti avviano le vicende verso un riequilibrio, seppure non verso una redenzione.
Senza di lei difficilmente avrei capito.
S. Eliot’s The Waste Land — “I will show you fear in a handful of dust.” In Brideshead Revisited, Waugh returned to the same poem, sending Anthony Blanche out on an Oxford balcony to stutter a few lines from it.
IN this novel we have a comedy that contains tragic events, but still manages to entertain the reader with Waugh's brilliant satire and wit.
Eventually he falls under the spell of a madman named Todd who has a beloved set of Dickens novels; it is his passion to hear them read aloud, and it is Tony's personal hell to be the one required to do this.This is Waugh at his satirical best and I can forgive his use of Dickens as torture (which reading him may be to some people anyway).
How deadly can boredom really be? For some it can become deadly enough… “I should say it was time she began to be bored. They’ve been married five or six years. Quite well off but everything goes in keeping up the house. I’ve never seen it but I’ve an idea it’s huge and quite hideous.”While endeavouring to escape the boredom of the aristocratic life one may find a lot of troubles on one’s romantic head…Evelyn Waugh is a brilliant observer of human peccadilloes and in A Handful of Dust he is at his best.
Yet, almost everyone in the story is ultimately dealt with by Waugh --in the end, with a supernatural, vicious, vengeful, God-like measure of cruelty.
He sets out to show (like Dash Hammett does in 'Maltese Falcon') how modern people--after any kind of shock or disturbance--always tend to come back around to the same lives they're used to.
What Waugh wants to demonstrate is that these people actually have a lot less 'life-choices' than we always assume they do.
He rescues Tony and Brenda from their brief bout with personal disaster--ends the disruption--and hands them back their lives.
I see that I have classified A Handful of Dust as "humor." It is, a sort of bright, brittle, mirthless humor that looks at the sea of human relationships and sees them dissolve in the great wastes that surround and lay beyond a seemingly humdrum life.Tony and Brenda Last live in the country.
At that point, Brenda tells Tony she wants a divorce and that she is in love with John Beaver, who is roundly despised by most of London society.When it transpires that Brenda asks for 2,000 pounds sterling per year, which would force him to sell Hetton, Tony Last decides to refuse the divorce (which at that time was possible) and go off to the jungles of Brazil with a half-crocked explorer and arms peddler named Dr. Messinger.
