https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/237900.95_Poems
"...higher than should can hope or him can hide)and this is the wonder that's keeping the stars aparti carry your heart(i carry it in my heart)- E.E. Cummings, 95 Poems, "92"Hunched, parkfriendlyplay-fully(feelhe feeds &robins) through soft bars sunshined of whys &democraticyellowdaffodils of >(now)Old poet coppessilken web truthtulles of April --triangulating: (i) third-person love, &(ii) singular simple time, w/ (iii) always present > (death) &c.
[rating = B-]This collection was a bit more traditional, at least in terms of style, though also in subject matter. The best poems were 10-40, all the others were either a bit vague or just ordinary. Although he still retains his lovely way of looking at the world and by compounding odd words together, he also tended to write in a bit of a daze, as if her wasn't fully invested in the later section of the collection. But all the same, I love E. E. Cummings and find him invigorating and original.
Read cover to cover in roughly an hour. Some are breathtakingly beautiful, some are utterly confounding (hence the wtf shelving), some are an adorable instant gone in a breath. I soon realized that it helped to read most of them with two separate voices in my head: that of the general text and that of the (text in parentheses). Made it much easier to follow.1 - 2 - 3 - 4 - 16 - 41 - 60 - 73 - 78 - 83 - 87 - 92 - 95
This is evident from the style, which appears to be more refined, more fully realized than in Cummings's earlier collections.
Cummings's style is most recognizable in the poems that contain his signature arrangement (or derangement) of words.
At times the poems appear to be competing thoughts in the mind of the poet ("19"), while others appear tangential ("30").
But overall, however many trains of thought or word puzzles there may be, the poems appear, more often than not, to be complimentary ("57")...un(bee)moving(in)gare(the)you(only)asl(rose)eep - 19 (pg.
I read this short volume in a single sitting and concluded that I liked it in spite of also disliking it.
Comparing his style of poetry to visual arts made me think that he was a fusion of Picasso, Pollock, and Monet - His use of the basic shapes of language (Picasso) is thrown together in what seem to be random or unexpected ways (Pollock) but the overall impression conveyed in his poetry was pleasing nonetheless (Monet).
Some of his forms (such as circular/wrapping poems or poems inside poems) were fun to decipher and fun to read.
cummings is my favorite poet because of his unique form of writing...each poem is like a puzzle, and every poem is set up differently.
some poems embrace a "less is more" structure, others literally create shapes on the page with the words.
in this collection of poems, e.
e. cummings combined the art of poetry with the art of typography to create something appealing to both poetry lovers and designers.i've read this book of poems from front to back many times, and thoroughly enjoyed each read.
with a poem for almost any occasion or mood, this book always makes me think.
As usual with cummings, I love some poems and despair of understanding others. cummings seems less obscure in his old age, but can still be pretty darn obscure. A couple of poems in this collection actually rhyme, and he does that better than most of his contemporaries. Worthwhile, but my taste is for his early work and the love poems of his early middle period.
There were some poems that could be touched easily...Beautifulis the unmeaningof(silently)falling(everywhere)sNow...and some that I didn't like at all...as joe gould says inhis terrifyingly human manner the only reason every womanshouldgo to college is sothat she never can(knowledge is power)say oif i'dOHnlygawntuecollege...I understand Joe Gould had some influence on E.E., but seriously - is this the kind of stuff that needs to be immortalized in a poem?
I'm coming back, getting used to the language and the breakdown of the words, understanding and intuiting more.
I weaseled my father into buying this book for me when I was just a tad bit drunk and belligerent.
The used copy he sighed over and then payed for only cost $1.95, so I was primed to love it for this reason alone.
Perhaps in my drunken state, I imagined the punctuation to form a language all its own, but truthfully, this book is not very interesting at all.
The punctuation play can be fun, I liked one maybe two poems, but overall the words don't really function other than to diverge.
So basically, I got through half the book, and decided to set it aside.
I like 92 too!
This collection had some of Cummings’ most well known poems, as well as some I’d never even heard of. It was a beautiful reintroduction to his work; poem 51 in particular really got to me. I’m not sure why, and I’m content with that - keeping the poem and its wonder with me.
I think enjoying these poems requires some type of literary understanding that I don't yet have.
I'm not going to review all of the e.e. cummings collections that I own (there are way too many as I have this thing about collecting them).
What I will say is that cummings has this totally selfish/creative/lovely/beautiful/erotic way of writing that just gets me every time.
He's modern and writes very much that way, and I love his playful use of punctuality and grammar as a means of conveying his emotions.
If you've never read cummings, you may love him, you may hate him, but you can't deny that he was an original.
"noone and a star stand,am to am(life to life;breathing to breathingflaming dream to dreaming flame)united by perfect nothing:millionary wherewhens distant,asreckoned by the unimmortal mind,these immeasurable mysteries(human one;and one celestial)standsoul to soul:freedom to freedomtill her utmost secrecies and his(dreaming flame by flaming dream)merge–at not imaginable whichinstant born,a(who is neither eachboth and)Self adventures deathlessness"#14.
So good, something you have to contend with wrestle with. I never have thought so hard to figure out poems like his. They are worth the struggle. He has a spirit in him and a craft that was meant for the page. I have the original first edition hard back. Beautiful cover paper, binding and type face. Just a treasure to read
This book had some AMAZING poems. However, I do like some of Cummings other collections much better. This one was his last collection and was a bit hard to follow at times. Overall good but I’m partial to Cummings always.
“- saharas have their centuries, ten thousandof which are smaller than a rose’s moment” - e. e. Cummings, number 11 of 95 poems This was the first time I have ever read Cummings but I will be back for more!
I love e.e. cummings' swirly words and sneaky rhymes. Some poems are almost laid out as a maze on the page. And #92 is my favorite love poem.
Some poems fly off the page and seem almost transformative. Others require so much work. Lovely that these poems were published.
Appreciated and admired the boundaries Cummings pushed in his style and approach to writing, but I didn't especially enjoy most of it.
why didn’t i read this when i was thirteen like i was supposed to
An exercise in parentheses and line breaking
to stand(alone)in someautumnal afternoon:breathing a fatalstillness;whileenormous this howpatient creatures(who'snever by never robbed of day)puts always on by alwaysdream,is totastenot(beyonddeath andlife)imaginable mysteries
Have never read anything quite like it.
However, for me, the beginning and the end were absolutely stunning.I feel like these were poemsI could read again and again (and again and again)and still find meaning (the truththat I had always sought) within themCummings' experimental (yet thoughtful) style really makes you take a step back and analyse the poem as a poem.
Reading these so randomly over the space of a couple of months (in PDF form on a laptop [the formatting didn't work on kindle]) was somewhat of a disservice.
Favorites:To stand(alone)in some autumnal afternoonno air is air and thing is thing: no blissmaggie 
Existem dois versos em algum dos 95 poemas de cummings presentes nesse livro que dizem: "Time's a strange fellow;/more he gives than takes".
Acredito, intimamente, como uma esperança e uma prece, que esses dois versos mudam tudo.
Que eles alteram o mundo.
Que eles instituem um novo mundo; que também instituem um novo tempo.
E são apenas dois versos.
A leitura nos permite momentos pontuais de algo que vai além da contemplação, além da observação desinteressada das coisas; a leitura, pontualmente, nos permite o desejo ativo da vida.
O que a poesia de cummings faz não é menos do que isso e talvez seja muito mais.
I lost this book and it is the most tragic thing that has ever happened to me. May we one day be reunited.
This was a hard call to rate, because a few poems were really great, but quite a lot of them grated on my nerves. I'm not a fan of such insistent manipulation of how a reader must approach your work. Example:Beautifulis theunmeaningof(silently)falling(everywhere)sNowThe poems I did like were written in a more straightforward manner. Here's a favorite:when any mortal (even the most odd)can justify the ways of man to Godi'll think it strange that normal mortals cannot justify the ways of God to man
e. e. cummings is often enjoyed by people who aren't fond of most poetry. When you first read his poems, you may not understand any of it--not the syntax, not the grammar, not the words--but if you just keep going and read through all the poems, you fall into a rhythm and all the meaning just falls out of it, and you realize you're reading/listening to a different language, but it's a language you know.
A brilliant, compassionate man helped me through a bad year in high school. He knew I liked e.e. cummings, and he gave me a copy of 95 (an earlier edition). Although cummings' stature as a poet has diminished somewhat in my mind over the years -- in high school I thought he hung the moon, now I see him in more human proportions -- I've always been deeply attached to this slim volume of poems.Thank you, Dr. Chernell, wherever you are.
