https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3722183-a-god-in-ruins
meet us back here when you're done!i say "technically," because although teddy is definitely the center of this book, we are still treated to the stories and perspectives of some of our other friends from life, as well as some new additions: sylvie, izzie, nancy, hugh, sunny, viola, bertie.
three words: do.mi.nic.i said that the book wasn't as structurally playful as life, but it does do a couple of things.
Atkinson clearly feels a great deal of affection for the old world modesty and self-effacement of Teddy – brilliantly offset by the bullying egotism and blinkered narcissism of his gloriously obnoxious daughter Viola (one of the best literary villains of past few years!).
The war is depicted as a time of simple and stolen pleasures, of camaraderie and even excitement (Atkinson gives her characters very glamorous wartime occupations: Teddy’s wife Nancy is a codebreaker at Bletchley Park, a sister is an ATA pilot and a friend a female SOE agent); post-war, all the way to today, is depicted as a muddle of self-indulgence and misguided pursuits of utopia.
“A man is a god in ruins. When men are innocent, life shall be longer, and shall pass into the immortal, as gently as we wake from dreams.“ – Ralph Waldo Emerson – Nature Thus opens Kate Atkinson’s companion work to her much acclaimed Life After Life. While the earlier work focused on The Blitz, Germany’s prolonged bombing of London and other English cities during World War II, this one looks at the Allied bombing campaign against Germany, first against strategic resources and later targeting c
The most poignant, for me, is when young Ted rues the loss to generations to come from his aunt having consumed a single skylark, a potent symbol for the lives extinguished in war, the lost possibilities, reminding us of Spring and Fall by GM Hopkins.
Atkinson, having set aside the fun What if of Life After Life, contains herself until the end when she offers commentary on authorial prerogatives, imagining different outcomes for her characters, imagining lives that might have been, the god of her created domain.So, a lot on the mechanisms, but is A God in Ruins worth reading?
When men are innocent, life shall be longer, and shall pass into the immortal, as gently as we awake from dreams.” Wartime is, the author argues, man’s greatest fall from grace and so she walks a fine tightrope: revealing the amazing heroism and self-sacrifice of the men such as Teddy and his crew yet showcasing how (in her own words) “whether our war on savagery did not, in the end, become itself savage as we attacked the very people – the old, the young, women – that civilization is supposed to defend.” When Ursula asks Teddy, “and how do you define ‘innocence” anyway?”, attention must be paid.The postwar scenario occupies every bit as large a part as the war narrative; Viola never does understand the forces that shaped her father or the fabric of the man he became.
And it needs to be read carefully anyway because at times the story flits backwards and forwards and the reader needs to be alert in order to keep track.I enjoyed the fact that the book is set in the same world as Life After Life but focuses on Teddy instead of Ursula.
However the author tells it so well and brings it all to life in such a way that you can imagine being up there in that tiny plane or worse, crash landing in the North Sea. Teddy is a wonderful character who grows from boyhood to old man during the story and becomes someone you really care for.
This book is a companion to Atkinson’s celebrated Life After Life, one I liked a lot for the 0 (view spoiler)[do-overs in the main character’s life that allow us to play “what if” (hide spoiler)] 1 (view spoiler)[beautiful, yet unobtrusive writing (hide spoiler)] 2 (view spoiler)[nonlinearity of the narrative (hide spoiler)] 3 (view spoiler)[history lessons, both cultural and Krieg-related (hide spoiler)] 4 (view spoiler)[density of the plot (hide spoiler)] 5 (view spoiler)[collective stiffness of upper lips (hide spoiler)] 6 (view spoiler)[the main character, Ursula -- insightful, empathetic, philosophical and poetic (hide spoiler)] 7 (view spoiler)[clichéd, but interesting chance in one of the do-overs to undo Hitler (hide spoiler)] 8 (view spoiler)[ability to defy quantum physics even at its weirdest and still make it work (hide spoiler)] 9 (view spoiler)[template of repeated trials over similar circumstances leading to better decisions and an older soul (hide spoiler)].
4.5 stars Having previously devoured Kate Atkinson's novels as soon as they were published, I don't know why it has taken me so long to get to A God in Ruins and Life After Life.
Ms Atkinson tells us what young Sunny thinks when his mother yells at him, she describes his indignation, and we follow his logic which after all makes perfect sense - if only to Sunny.
Ms Atkinson pays tribute to the many men and women who lost their lives during the war, but her novel also clearly highlights the futility of war.
( the universe was speaking).Plus...I had remembered months before, Goodreads member, Violet Wells, said a couple of things in her review that had me up to 'seriously considering' giving Kate Atkinson another try.
I never said Atkinson wasn't a good writer...it was just that the story in "Life After Life" drove me bananas.
Emotions FELT!!!For me...it's all about TEDDY....( the cycle of a life)!Teddy as a child Teddy during the war Teddy after the war.Teddy is doing the storytelling.
An adult man...telling us his life story.
A God in Ruins, by Kate Atkinson
This is highlighted in the relationship between the obnoxiously brilliant Viola and her father Teddy.
Teddy is/was a Bomber Command pilot during WW2.
Almost nightly he goes through the harrowing experience of flying over Nazi Germany; the repressed guilt of dropping bombs on “innocent” civilians; the awareness that his death is always a whisker away and that an entire city below is willing it; his friends are killed on a monthly basis.
Late in the novel, when Viola has become a writer and her father is suffering from dementia she regrets not asking him about his wartime experiences, not because she’s interested, but because she realises it would be good material for a book.
This only accounts for about a third of the book, as Teddy's struggles with civilian life before and after the war are also described in detail, and the chapters are chronologically scattered.
Some events are described several times in different levels of detail.Some chapters tell the story of Teddy's daughter Viola, who is a self-centred child of the sixties who becomes a writer of popular fiction, and her relationship with her children Sunny (a boy) and Bertie (a girl).
It’s difficult to explain quite why this is such an exquisite read, because there’s precious little in the way of plot, but it is testament to the sheer brilliance of Atkinson’s writing, that she can keep her reader so engaged without too much happening.
Well, maybe I could, just a tiny bit, because as I neared the end, I found myself thinking: ‘It’s a lovely book, but I’m not sure what the point of it is, other than the interest to be found even in very ordinary, common-place lives.’ In fairness, I’d have been happy to leave it at that, I was enjoying the read so much.
In A God in Ruins, Atkinson turns her focus on Ursula’s beloved younger brother Teddy – would-be poet, RAF bomber pilot, husband and father – as he navigates the perils and progress of the 20th century.
It randomly jumps from Teddy's childhood, to his old age, to his war years and back, interspersed with the lives of his one daughter, Viola, and her two children, Sunny and Bertie, and back again.
This review and others are also published on my blog sandysbookaday.wordpress.comhttps://wordpress.com/post/sandysbook...
Once Atkinson has you wondering about something, it's explained rather quickly, through a different time period and a different point of view.I would've liked the book to have ended ten pages sooner.
As I read the last sentence of "my" ending, my mind immediately went to the ending of D.M. Thomas's The White Hotel -- same theme but Thomas' rendering had much more of an impact on me.
Following Atkinson's ending (and I understand why she chose it) is an "Author's Note".
I wonder if criticism to Life After Life prompted it.I am of two minds about this book and not sure how to rate it.
“The whole edifice of civilization turned out to be constructed from an unstable mix of quicksand and imagination.” ― Kate Atkinson, A God in Ruins"It's still the same old storyA fight for love and gloryA case of do or dieThe world will always welcome loversAs time goes by"-Frank Sinatra, As Time Goes ByIn the 2013 déjà-vu epic  Life After Life  Kate Atkinson played out "what if?" in a loop-de-loop plot that tossed narrative structure to the wind. It is a brilliant, confounding, playful and poig
A God In Ruins returns us to Fox Corner and the Todd family of Life After Life, but aware that clever conceit is best eaten while warm, Atkinson returns to a more conventional structure for this "companion" novel.
A God In Ruins plucks Teddy Todd from Ursula Todd's war and follows his life, from RAF bomber during WWII to his final days in a nursing home in the 21st century.
Dismiss her at your own peril and loss.If Life After Life is about beginning and beginning again, A God In Ruins is about our inevitable end.
When men are innocent, life shall be longer, and shall pass into the immortal,as gently as we awake from dreams" - Ralph Waldo EmersonIn this companion piece to Life After Life Atkinson writes about Teddy Todd: beloved younger brother of Ursula, would-be poet, husband, father, grandfather, World War II bomber pilot.
All are dealt in Atkinson's intelligent and quirky style.I fell in love with Teddy and I wept for all young people whose lives are ruined by war and who miss out on what otherwise could have been.
I get that Teddy was a representation of the many WW2 pilots who returned from the war to lead very ordinary lives without fuss and much excitement, and I appreciate that Teddy is a tribute to those men.
However, I would rather read about these men from non-fiction sources than in a fictional environment.As for the point of the book that events and lives are interlinked and a change in one results in a ripple effect that will change others, I believe this came across quite well in Life After Life and did not need the additional elaboration of Teddy's story in A God in Ruins.
I regret so much that I never got back to write a review close to when I finished reading this book.
It's unfair to my reading experience, the book and the author.
I am going to include what I wrote in a late status update when I finished the book: What a ride Atkinson takes us on.
One of my early text notes spoke to Teddy reliving his life figuratively while Ursula relived it in reality.
I will read her next book and have some of her backlog to catch up with (thankfully).I rate this 4.5*, just slightly behind Life After Life.
I just cannot deal with Viola. Just no.
Teddy Todd is a character from Kate Atkinson's earlier novel Life After Life.
She calls this a companion piece to Life After Life, which is about Ursula, Teddy's older sister, and her multiple lives.
Towards the end of the final movement, when the magnificence of the Choral becomes almost unbearable, Teddy had the odd sensation that he might actually have to hold on to his sister to prevent her rising into the air and taking flight." Passages like this suggest to me that Atkinson has been touched by the divine.
Even though Kate Atkinson took readers back into the beautiful world that she created for the Todd family, this story wasn't nearly as enjoyable as Life After Life.This time, the story focused on Teddy.
We get to see Teddy's relationships, family and inner thoughts.It didn't have the magic of Ursula's story, in my opinion.
I realize that that is partially the point, but still- it's hard to appreciate the story when you don't like most of the major characters.The writing was still lovely, but I didn't connect to this book the way that I did with the other one.
This novel is why I read.I first met Kate Atkinson in Life after Life, which, while not quite being a five-star read for me, made me want to explore her work further.
The heart of this novel is Teddy, an RAF bomber pilot in World War II, the sister of Ursula in Life after Life, the father of Viola and grandfather of Sonny and Bertie/Roberta.
(Another repeated, concrete symbol was a small, silver hare with an ivory teething ring attached to it, which touches several of the Todd’s lives and which Teddy carries with him as a talisman when he is on his ‘tours’ (bombing raids).
Kate Atkinson adds an Author’s Note at the end of this story which tells us much of what she was communicating in this novel.
But Atkinson caught enough truth in her writing that we know these characters, Ted, Viola, Sunny, are real enough within each of us.
With this two-book fiction, she gives us enough distance to see possible outcomes of decisions made now, and we always have the sense that we can change the outcomes if we don’t like where we’re headed.
I received an ARC of this from the publisher. The cover of the book reads: What if the new Kate Atkinson were even better than the last? Well, A God in Ruins is in some ways similar to Life After Life. It’s a companion piece, built along a similarly complex timeline and focusing on the life of Ursula Todd’s younger brother Teddy; his part in the War; his marriage; his reluctant navigation of the perilous, shifting waters of the twentieth century. Like all Kate Atkinson’s work, it is a masterly
Like all Kate Atkinson’s work, it is a masterly piece of writing; the prose is clear and elegant; sometimes wryly humorous; often touching and with a wistful awareness of passing time that underpins the narrative with a constant sense of melancholy.
It is a kind of ironic wink to the reader – but that irony is also the means of keeping us at a distance; of reminding us that we are simply reading fragments of narrative on a page.
I love Kate Atkinson’s writing.
It is beautiful and perfectly-pitched - but there is an emotional detachment to her narrative that I have always found a little frustrating.
*****"A God in Ruins" revolves around Teddy Todd, who - in a nutshell - grew up in the English countryside, was the apple of his mother's eye, lost his loving father, was close to his sister Ursula, became a bomber pilot in WWII, married his childhood sweetheart, worked as a journalist, had a horrid narcissistic daughter, helped raise his grandchildren, got old, and died.
Not being much of a reader of war stories (with exceptions such as the brilliant The Things They Carried) I was apprehensive about A God in Ruins, the story of Ursula's beloved brother Teddy, described as a companion novel to Life After Life.
Reading Teddy's story, I understood why my father talked about his war experiences sparingly, focusing on his time between flights.I rarely feel as involved in the lives of a book's characters, not since I was a child have I felt as passionately about fictional people as I did with this book.
I was shocked and a little angry but it did intrigue me.Ultimately, I loved this novel and its characters (even the awful Viola, Teddy's daughter).
I hated myself for not loving this book.
And while I did love many parts, I didn't like others.
Atkinson is a wonderful writer, her characters are all interesting and unique.
I ate up everything, except for the actual war stories.
They held no interest for me, and I was mad at myself but I couldn't read them.
Every single character was wonderful in their own way.
I loved Teddy.
The ending gave me goosebumps.I wish I could give this 4 stars, I know I am in the minority here, but much of the reading was almost a chore.
I just didn't love it.
Gobsmacked and in tears at the end. Full review to follow. A worthy sequel to Life After Life, and I'd argue made the better if you read them in order, but also a thing of Beauty and Art (nods to Sylvie) on its own.
“The dead were legion, and remembrance was a kind of duty…not always related to love.”This is Atkinson’s companion piece (her words) to Life After Life, the story of the privileged Todd family in Fox Corner, in England, with WW II as the highlight of events.
Time is not a banner laid out linearly, but rather a gossamer and vertical mass of bridged and dissonant memories.Teddy lives to be almost a century old (as we learn early on), and throughout the novel, the narrative see-saws from Teddy the child, in the mid 1920s, to Teddy the Bomber pilot during the war, later as a husband and father, then a loving grandfather, and then as a dying old man.
Teddy grew up loving nature and picked flowers for his adoring, glamorous mother (Sylvie, of the fur and silk).The British were hammered in both World Wars, and Teddy’s childhood was coloured by it.
“He loved Viola as only a parent can love a child, but it was hard work.”And I understand Teddy, who faced war so young and did his best to deal with it.
He hadn’t known it at the time but it was the worst night of the war for Bomber Command – ninety-six aircraft lost, five hundred and forty-five men killed, more than in the whole Battle of Britain.
Her brother Teddy was a RAF pilot during World War II who was shot down and missing in action.
In A God in Ruins we learn that he had been in a German POW camp for two years before returning to England.The book is written with a constant shifting back and forth in time.
Viola is almost overdrawn as a character, appearing totally unlikable.Teddy is a kind, stoic man who signs up for the RAF during World War II, finding his passion in flying bombers.
It's worth reading A God in Ruins just for the excellent chapters about Teddy's war years.
