https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2368.Mornings_on_Horseback
Audiobook: FABULOUS AUDIOBOOK!!!There was so much I didn't know about Teddy Roosevelt until this book.
I had no idea the obstacles he had go through to be the 'Roosevelt' people would remember--given the accomplished man his 'father' was.
By the time I came to the end --my love for TR was tenfold.
with horrible medications at the time.
His early adulthood was marked by tragedy.
As a political figure he's a man that change the world.
I loved Teddy Roosevelts *Teddy-ness* with children.
David McCullough can tell a story…with the focus being on Roosevelt's early life and his family.
… The book would end when I thought he was formed as a person, at whatever age that happened, when I felt I could say, when the reader could say, there he is.San Juan Hill, the White House, the Canal, the trust-busting and Big Stick wielding, the Bull Moose with his “hat in the ring,” would all be after the fact, another story, so far as my interests.A lot of attention is paid to his parents and the domestic scene of his childhood in one of the richest families in New York City in the late 19th century, the “Age of Innocence” as termed by Edith Wharton’s novel (who was a friend of the family).
McCullough makes a good case that Teddy's adventurous side was a trait learned from his spirited mother and her Bulloch relatives.Even through the strains of the Civil War, Theodore and Mittie's marriage would endure, the family prospered and the two would bequeath their very different gifts but complementary gifts to their their children.
The second half of Mornings on Horseback covers Teddy's education at Harvard, his early forays into politics, his first marriage and the tragic death of his wife and Mittie on the same day.
“Mornings on Horseback” is yet another example of a book about a subject matter I thought I would have no interest in, but I was very wrong.This text is about Teddy Roosevelt’s immediate family and his upbringing.
It is also a bit of a social history on American Victorian life and is endlessly insightful on that subject.McCullough makes it very clear that our immediate family are some of the biggest influences on who we are to become and Teddy’s parents and siblings are a fascinating and very accomplished family.
Don't let anyone convince you that "nurture" isn't a powerful contributor to who we are.
Not the exclusive contributor -- Teddy's own brother Elliot bears witness to that -- but powerful, nonetheless.
Two tidbits I was reminded of here: the strong influence Teddy's Southern mother, Mittie Bulloch Roosevelt, had on his view of the world.
Reminded me of a family story where one child was coaching another: "you just have to keep asking, because you never know when they'll say yes!" In many ways, that is the most transparent and childlike characteristic of this rough rider.
A biography covering the early life of Theodore Roosevelt, from his childhood through his years as a Dakota rancher, this book is also a fascinating account of the entire colorful Roosevelt family and the times in which they lived.
I could hardly put it down.
I especially loved the way the author was able to draw such vivid pictures of this dynamic man -- Roosevelt reading Anna Karenina while guarding thieves at gunpoint...in horseback and dressed in full "dude" outfit, telling his cowboys to "hasten forward, quickly there!"...
I found myself inspired by Roosevelt's passionate curiosity and commitment to "the strenuous life."
David McCullough describes the childhood of our 26th president Theodore Roosevelt in “Mornings on Horseback” with little known details of how Teddy Roosevelt became a great man.
Theodore took the family on a year long vacation where they visited European countries as well as Egypt.
But there was a very powerful and entrenched political class running the custom house which became known as the Republican Party’s “Stalwarts.” The Stalwarts were led by New York’s charismatic intelligent Senator Roscoe Conkling.
Theodore came home from work at the state assembly and found both his mother and wife sick.
Theodore continued his whirlwind political career in New York’s assembly.
My 4th book on Teddy Roosevelt.
I just can't quit this guy!
This book was okay but probably could have been called "White Privilege: The Book" instead.
It does give the reader a good idea about Teddy's upbringing and his family.
He definitely had some tragedies in his life: His first wife and his mother died within hours of each other.
But most of his early life was that of a filthy rich little kid getting to go on outrageous adventures.
Very little political here, but I don't think that's what McCullough was going for.
Much like his work on "Truman", McCullough left me a bit cold.
Author David McCullough introduces this biography of Teddy Roosevelt by saying that his first encounter with "the president" was when his brother was playing him in a school production of "Arsenic and Old Lace." Because of that, I'm not ashamed to admit that an entertainment venue sparked my interest in this book also: the American Film Company is planning a movie called "Born in the Badlands" about Teddy Roosevelt's cowboy years in the Dakotas (coinciding with Laura and Almanzo's first four, incidentally).
Theodore Roosevelt Senior was an especially admirable man, and Teddy's oldest sister Bamie turns out to be the real woman behind the man, more so than his mother or wife.
In short, I am not sure why everyone likes David McCullough's writing, though I shouldn't say that without reading one or two of his others.
The book ends when Teddy Roosevelt is 29 years old, I guess because the rest of his life is easily researched in other works.
What I liked about the book: I liked learning things about Teddy R.
He is a great example of working hard to overcome limitations.Summary: I thought my interest in history would be well-served by reading books by McCullough, who as a popular history writer should be right up my alley, since I think I would be bored by academic history coverage.
The subject carried this book. It’s not one of the author’s best - felt like a research essay more than a full manuscript. That said, Roosevelt’s background is fascinating. Such a unique figure.
But it also reveals far more than that – it offers a unique and engaging look at the life of a privileged New York family during the late nineteenth century.As a consequence of McCullough’s focus, the reader misses the majority of Theodore’s political career (and the accompanying theatrics) including his time as Civil Service Commissioner, NYC Police Commissioner, Assistant Secretary of the Navy…and his presidency.
Other than a helpful “Afterward” which in brief form follows Roosevelt and his siblings to the end of their lives, the book ends suddenly and without warning.Overall, David McCullough’s “Mornings on Horseback” is entertaining and offers a unique perspective on Roosevelt’s early life.
I had no particular interest in TR going in, but once I got into this book, I kept missing bits of conversations because I was sneaking in a few more paragraphs about the Roosevelts' nineteenth-century rich-people escapades.
McCullough packs in a lot of historical background here, and he got me to think twice about things like philanthropy in a time apparently without liberal guilt (with our vast wealth we'll give generously to many charities, and also let's get new livery for the servants and build a stupendously huge new house!), Republicanism among a generation that had known Lincoln, and, of course, the kind of fascination with nature that consists in shooting things all day long.
The author did a fantastic job of telling a story based on historical accounts, journals, and letters written by family and those closest to them.
Honestly, I expected bias and that the story would be told seeing Theodore Roosevelt through rose colored glasses, and maybe that was the case in some instances, but overall this was not so.
I saw goodness and fault throughout, and felt like I was truly able imagine the lives of this family, beginning with the courtship of President Roosevelt’s parents and ending with just prior to his election as President.
I could go on, but my hope is that others enjoy meeting this family as much as I did.
I love David McCullough and think he is a national treasure.
"Truman" is my favorite biography of all time, I loved Mr McCullough's narration of "The Civil War," and he is from Pittsburgh to boot.
I liked "Mornings on Horseback" a lot.
I now smile when I see video clips of "TR" and strive to be more like him (and his father) in some ways.
For me, though, what kept "Mornings on Horseback" from being a masterpiece is that it sometimes got bogged down in minutiae that was largely irrelevant to the story.
I LOVED this book.
To understand Theodore Roosevelt you have to understand his family background.
His father paid a substitute to fight for him in the Civil War, but was actively involved in social work and in trying to improve society.
His mother came from a family in Georgia which was actively involved in the civil war.
You also need to understand Theodore's place in the family and his parents attitudes toward raising children.
I can't recommend this book highly enough.
Examining Roosevelt's early years makes the rest of his life easily understandable.
Amazing. I did not know that Theodore Roosevelt had such an incredible and interesting story.
Though this book could not be classified as a regular biography, as the story of Teddy Roosevelt ended in this volume before the famous parts even began, it was still a joy to read.
Teddy Roosevelt’s deep respect of his father at times stressed him as he sought to live out the highest expectations that would please his father.
As is often the case, tragedy molds a person and makes them more fit for greatness.I look forward to reading a full biography of Teddy Roosevelt somewhere down the line, but this book is still a worthy read for either presidential biography lovers or McCullough fans.
Foremost historian David McCullough won several awards for this biography of Theodore Roosevelt's early life.
In fact, of the countless interesting stories of TR's life on the plains, he shared only one.I think perhaps this book would have worked better as a work of narrative fiction, since McCullough wanted to examine personalities.
I know I may take some flak for saying that - it is the great David McCullough after all and this was a National Book Award Winner and Pulitzer Prize Nominee.
Combination biography of Teddy Roosevelt’s early years and historical portrait of a time and class.
Teddy’s story, when it slowly emerges from the background detail, is irritating in the way that he is a man who succeeded given every possible advantage and opportunity to do so.
I really don’t like this sort of reverse classism in myself or others, but I did eventually stop mentally deconstructing it when I got to the part about Teddy, the great outdoorsman, going out west with a bowie knife made by Tiffany’s.
Still, this is an intriguing portrait of the family and Teddy’s early years, particularly the impact of his childhood battles with asthma and prolonged illness.
Having just finished a book about the Spanish American War and the U.S. military occupation of the Philippines, I decided to proceed to a biography of one of those responsible for all that unneeded misery: Theodore Roosevelt.
Having recently read his 1776 with enjoyment, I selected McCullough's Mornings of Horseback.It wasn't quite what I expected, being a biography of the man and his family going only up to his unsuccessful race for the mayoralty of New York, but perhaps it served as an antidote for my sanctimoniousness.
Although very wealthy on all sides of the family, the Roosevelts were not, as McCullough portrays them, moral monsters.
DNF (audiobook)I listened to the audio version of this book. Back in the day I was a history major, so I was trying to get back in the swing of things. Theodore Roosevelt is one of the more interesting presidents IMO. But after 3 discs of listening to random things about his uncle's cousins stepsons wife's kid, I became extremely bored and the book lost me. It was hard to keep track of who was who. When I pick up a book about Teddy Roosevelt, I want to hear about him. Not about everyone in the family BUT him.
Perhaps my greatest disappointment with Mornings on Horseback is that the years of T.R.'s life that I was most interested in reading more about, his time as a rancher in the Bad Lands of the Dakota Territory, comprise very little of the book.
Of course, viewed objectively, this is the fault of my own expectations, rather than the book itself.Overall, if you are as fascinated by Theodore Roosevelt as I am, Mornings on Horseback is still a biography that is worth your time.
It provides intriguing insight into the life and times of one of the most singular figures in American history.
I very much enjoyed learning about the childhood and family of President Theodore Roosevelt, as well as his adult life prior to becoming president.
As is no doubt true of many people, I only knew a couple of things about him - that he was a Rough Rider, sort of a cowboy type, who had led a cavalry charge during a war with Cuba, and that he was a President of the United States.This book opens his life, his childhood, his family, his marriage(s), his exploits, his character, and all the things that came together to make him who he was.
This was the first biography I’ve ever read which did not take its subject to their grave—did not, in fact, even reach TR’s presidency.
It does precisely what I wanted from the other presidential biographies I’ve read to date—told me what influenced the development in the man of his presidential-caliber character, ambition, and strength—and did it in more detail than I’ve yet encountered.
My only regret is that I finished the first 40 pages without realizing that the Theodore Roosevelt I was then reading about was not the future president, but his father.
I thought this book was excellent - I learned a lot, and the pace kept my interest.However, at the end of the audiobook, I realized it was the abridged edition - how disappointing! Be careful which edition you choose!
Good book. But if you want a book about Theodore’s first portion of his life, then The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt by Edmund Morris is the best book out there.This one is better for seeing a high level view of the family.
I really had no interest in Teddy Roosevelt and only checked it out because I have liked the other books that I have read by McCullough.Well let me say that McCollough did not disappoint.
The book does not cover in detail the whole life of Theodore Roosevelt, but rather it seems to be a study of how a few decent (very rich) young men and women made their way in the world.
He touches in a very glancing way on how these men and women were the antecedents of people like Eleanor Roosevelt and FDR.
Excellent narration, excellent writing, excellent subject.This book takes a step back in time, before Teddy ever became President.
Back when he was Teedie and idolized his father.
Back to his childhood and my oh my it was fantastic.
You know those books where you just want to gush over them IN ALL CAPS AND !!!!
The best parts, though, were the talk of his children and how much Teddy loved them and loved being a father.
TR was a fascinating person and the wild ride that was his childhood didn't disappoint one bit.
The main reason I give this book a 3 is that I am comparing it to other David McCullough books I've read, and this is weaker than those.
Even his stay at Harvard and his early marriage was interesting - but once it started to get into the detail of his early political career and his time as a rancher in the Badlands, it got mired down in detail.
This definitely got a bit slow toward the end, but I understand he was trying to wrap it up.
There is so much more to the Teddy Roosevelt story, and I know that I will read more about him.
