https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/768889.A_Storm_of_Swords
I'm seeing a lot of negative reviews about this book: people complaining about a slow story line and a ridiculously cruel world where anyone can be killed off without a second thought.
My response is: if you want a quick, happy clappy mushy book, you need to get yourself to the romance section.
Predictability has gone out the window, and although I like to believe I know where the story is going, George Martin proves time and time again that I just don't.Now let me stop waffling and get on with the next book!
I grew tired of most of the character's plot lines and couldn't get enough of others.
They definitely belong to my favourite characters and make all the events in King's Landing even more exciting.While I really like Brienne I don't care much for yet another long journey with unexpected (parts annoying) turns through Westeros.
They stumble and get dragged through places and by characters that I do not have any interest in - same goes for Arya.
And I don't like Jaime very much.
While I like her and Robb very much, it's still unnerving.
Better than the last book, not as good as the first. Altogether an interesting story, but the pace of the series is very slow and if GRRM mentions one more banner/sigil, I'm gonna lose it...
"The world grows a little darker each day."Still plowing my way through A Song of Ice and Fire!
The plots thicken and intermix, a rising host of new characters to cause a stir are introduced and the battles between kings rages on!
Catelyn: with Robb - the King in the North fighting battle after battle.
Bran: Heading North with Meera and Jojen, his Warg powers growing ever stronger.
Awaiting any further news concerning the Wildlings, while fear of the Others grows more and more palpable.
I love Davos, the underdog that he is!
Dany is growing in her power and becoming more Queen-like every day!
A Storm of Swords: Steel and Snow (A Song of Ice and Fire #3, Part 1 of 2), George R.R. Martinتاریخ نخستین خوانش: از بیست و ششم آوریل سال 2015 تا 12 می سال 2015 میلادیعنوان: طوفان شمشیرها کتاب 1 از جلد 3 (نغمه آتش و یخ، #3)؛ نویسنده: جورج آر. آر. مارتین؛ مترجم: رویا خادم الرضا؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، ویدا، 1393، در 737 ص و شش صفحه نقشه، شابک: 9786002910745؛طوفان شمشیرها سومین کتاب از مجموعه رمان فانتزی حماسی ترانه یخ و آتش، اثر نویسنده آمریکایی جرج آر. آر. مارتین است. در حال حاضر این کتاب طولانیترین
A Storm of Swords: Steel and Snow (A Song of Ice and Fire #3, Part 1 of 2), George R.R. Martinتاریخ نخستین خوانش: از بیست و ششم آوریل سال 2015 تا 12 می سال 2015 میلادیعنوان: طوفان شمشیرها کتاب 1 از جلد 3 (نغمه آتش و یخ، #3)؛ نویسنده: جورج آر.
مارتین؛ مترجم: رویا خادم الرضا؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، ویدا، 1393، در 737 ص و شش صفحه نقشه، شابک: 9786002910745؛طوفان شمشیرها سومین کتاب از مجموعه رمان فانتزی حماسی ترانه یخ و آتش، اثر نویسنده آمریکایی جرج آر.
در حال حاضر این کتاب طولانی‌ترین کتاب مجموعه است.
داستان طوفان شمشیرها کمی پیش از داستان کتاب پیشین است.
هفت پادشاهی هنوز درگیر جنگ پنج شاه هستند.
(I particularly love Brienne.) Samwell and Jaime Lannister both got turns at narrating (!!) and the characters did more, instead of just sitting around talking about it.I won't talk about ALL the characters, just the narrators.
Omg and Jaime lost (view spoiler)[ HIS HAAAAND!!
He's forever making stupid decisions...like how he abandons his oath (view spoiler)[to the Freys and marries some random low-born lass.
Once upon a time I would've said, "YES I AM FOR TRUE LOVE" but omg, not in Westeros, you freaking fools.
LIKE I LOVE BRAN.

Dark Wings, Dark Words. This is probably the most less action book in the series by far. But by the end, a lot is happening. Steel and Snow is the first half of A Storm of Swords, the third volume in the series. So its end is just the middle of the book. I am not going to deny, the story-line starts out really boring and slow-paced, but it will pick up its pace soon enough. George R.R. Martin said in a note at the beginning of the book that the opening chapters do not follow the the closing cha
The book opens up with Jaime and Brienne while they are on their way to King's Landing, in order to exchange him with Sansa Stark.
Not evil, but not good all the same.When Robb returned to Riverrun and discovered his mother's so-called treason, he forgave her and told her that he understands her reason.
Arya didn't have a great character development as in Book Two, but one thing is pretty clear: she is not afraid anymore.This is only the beginning of a dire time for Tyrion.
I enjoy this book. What an awesome book! Alhamdulillah. I don't really like the scenes especially sex scenes because I feel there are quite lots of sex scenes in this book. I think I might be unexpected to see these scenes are happening in the first part of A Storm of Swords.This book grabs my attention from the start to the end. I am hooked in A Song of Ice and Fire series.
I was constantly on edge and cautious through-out the whole time reading, waiting for the next death or scheme to reveal itself.What I admire about Martin's writing skill is his ability to write in several POVs and yet keep the story going without confusing or upsetting the reader's rhythm which makes it a comfortable, easy read.
That being said, if such subjects are sensitive to you I wouldn't recommend this series to you as it is present in many of the books."My sister has mistaken me for a mushroom.
Εξαιρετική πλοκή,μοναδικοί χαρακτήρες,υπέροχες εικόνες,πάρα πολύ δράση και διάσπαρτες ανατροπές που κρατούν το ενδιαφέρον αμείωτο και την αδρεναλίνη συνεχώς σε ψηλά επίπεδα.Ζοφερό και πιο σκοτεινό από τα προηγούμενα.Σε αυτό τον τόμο κυριαρχεί αυτή η αίσθηση του πεπρωμένου που κρέμεται από μια κλωστή,ακόμα και η πιο μικροσκοπική αλλαγή που μπορεί να κατακτήσει θρόνους και να συντρίψει στρατούς.Μιλάμε ίσως για το καλύτερο βιβλίο της σειράς μέχρι στιγμής.Δεν ξέρω τι άλλο να γράψω.Νομίζω πως έχω επεκταθεί πολύ στα προηγούμενα βιβλία που νιώθω ότι επαναλαμβάνομαι.Ελπίζω το δεύτερο μέρος του τρίτου βιβλίου να είναι ακόμα καλύτερο.
Dubbed as more a companion piece to ‘A Clash of Kings’ rather than a true sequel (as per the author intro) with chapters detailing events amidst the feverish battles of the previous book, I felt ‘A Storm of Swords: Steel and Snow’ actually worked well as a sequel as many of its entries were a direct result of the preceding books outcomes.
Much like the previous instalments, if not more so, ‘A Storm of Swords: Steel and Snow’ has left me craving more of this world and its deep and violent history – 4 stars.
Westeros is still in the grip of the War. Joffrey Baratheon holds the Iron Throne, but Robb Stark, Balon Greyjoy and Stannis Baratheon, jostle for their claim with blood and steel.
In this world you win; or you die.Martin has managed to continue this epic tale of the land of Westeros in the same vain as before.
This world that he has created is tough and brutal, and I like that way that the underlying magic, adds a little zing to all that is happening.But what makes this series so good is the political manoeuvring and intrigue that he has infused into this land.
*4.5 stars*EPIC AS FUCK.Can't wait to read part two!
Δεν ξέρω αν είναι όντως τόσο ωραίο ή αν οφείλεται στο ότι είμαι λίγο "nerd" αλλά ανυπομονώ για την συνέχεια :)
There are still some character's chapters that I dred every time I flip the page.
It is still great to see the writing style change between different points of view but knowing how long the chapters are, it is an effort to start every chapter with one of their character names at the beginning.
Reading the subtle changes between the show and the books is always fun.
I really struggled to read this book because of the sheer size.
10 pages of Game of Thrones equals over 50 of another book.
But its all worth it in the end.P.S whoever read this book all at once is a God!
The things is, I care about too few of the PoV characters in these books to make any of them a quick read.
Because am I supposed to read each chapter, because I care about said character and want to know what happens to them?
I'd simply prefer fewer PoV characters and longer PoV chapters, and if that lessens the epic scale of the series, then I'm okay with it.I'll keep reading though, because Martin is an incredible writer, and I know hanging on will pay of a hundred times in the end, but right now I am very frustrated.
Yes yes yes! Oh how I love this series!
A Storm of Sword: Steel and Snow (Part One) – George R.R. Martin  “Martin has captured the imagination of millions.” - Guardian The above quote which is featured on the front of the book holds so so true. George R.R. Martin is sheer brilliance when it comes to creating an exciting world for readers. Even now, after reading over 2,000 pages of A Song of Ice and Fire, George R.R. Martin is adding details that deepen our knowledge of the land, the history and the people of this spectacular world,
Arya Stark is slowly becoming one of my favourite fictional characters, and I love reading scenes with her and Gendry.
He’s witty, amusing and exciting and it’s a joy to read his chapters, even just for his dialogue.So far I have enjoyed the addition of the Tyrells, and they’re pretty high in my estimation for now simply because they try to help Sansa.
I’ve gone from considering her a bratty, little snob of a girl, to feeling for her as a victim, and finally to admiring the clever, young woman she is becoming.My favourite addition to this book, however, are the chapters involving Brienne and Jaime.
I need to appreciate their works for trying to spoil me.
Sometimes I would be so shocked that I need to know what will happen next immediately as the characters have alternate POVs we won't know until their next.
In that case, I will ask them, they will explain so nicely and when I tried to relieve my breath in sigh they would drop the spoiler too.
And then I was like "Screw me for asking".
After finishing A Clash Of Kings I couldn't contain myself: I had to pick up the first part in The Song of Ice and Fire-series immediately.
Death and life."A Storm Of Swords continues right where A Clash Of Kings ended.
The war between the Five Kings continues (well, at this moment four, to be honest; Robb Stark, Stannis Baratheon, Joffrey Baratheon and Balon Greyjoy; Renly sadly didn't make it through a dark night full of terrors...).
In A Storm Of Swords we read about Robb's fight through his mothers eyes.
Jon Snow is on his own expedition without The Night's Watch, joining the wildings north of the Wall.
He makes Sansa into a foolish girl who keeps making stupid mistakes, while Cersei is the venomous femme fatale, the kind of soap opera diva you love to hate, but who lacks the human qualities of a fully realized character.
I *loved* the scene in the novel where Sansa is invited to dine with Margaery Tyrell -- it was a glimpse of a female-only space that Martin rarely allows room for in his books.
Hopefully in the following novels, Martin's non-masculine characters will grow & improve.
O motivo para isto é que, para além de todos os aspectos positivos presentes nos volumes anteriores, este livro é consistente no que diz respeito ao interesse gerado pelos capítulos das várias personagens.George R.R. Martin consegue novamente contar a história numa escrita fluida, mas desta vez praticamente não há momentos mortos e as surpresas são mais que muitas.
Esta abordagem multi-perspectiva permite que o limite entre o bem e o mal seja extremamente ténue e poder observar todos os lados da barricada é extremamente gratificante para o leitor.Mais uma vez vos aconselho: se ainda não começaram a ler a saga, façam-no o quanto antes, mesmo que à partida não seja um tipo de livro que escolheriam.
time slept when swords woke I'm loving the way the series progresses.
There is not a single boring moment.
Ciao.
P.S.A Song of Ice and Fire is a series that won't disappoint.
It only gets better and better.
Promise.
If you can't accept that as a fact of LIFE then all I've got to say to you is this: "You know nothing, Jon Snow." A Song of Ice and Fire (Book Reviews) 1.
A Game of Thrones: 5 Great First Stars2.
A Clash of Kings: 5 Royal Stars3.2 A Storm of Swords Pt. 2:  5 Blood
time slept when swords woke
I'm loving the way the series progresses.
There is not a single boring moment.
Ciao.
P.S.A Song of Ice and Fire is a series that won't disappoint.
It only gets better and better.
Promise.
If you can't accept that as a fact of LIFE then all I've got to say to you is this: "You know nothing, Jon Snow."
A Song of Ice and Fire (Book Reviews)
1. A Game of Thrones: 5 Great First Stars2.
A Clash of Kings: 5 Royal Stars3.2 A Storm of Swords Pt. 2:  5 Bloody Stars4.
A Feast for Crows:  5 Westerosi Stars
The first book is still my favorite one:(
THIS WAS EPICCCC! I cannot wait to read the next one.
George R.R.Martin ist einfach ein Meister seines Fach und schreibt so bildgewaltig!!!Der Kampf um die Krone geht weiter...
Jon Schnee ist weit weg der Mauer und muss wichtige Entscheidungen für sich und seine Familie/Brüder treffen.
Ich will nicht zu viel verraten, also selbst lesen...Der Autor steht ganz oben in meinem Ranking der Lieblingssautoren, denn er schreibt unvergleichbar bildgewaltig, sodass man selbst mitten in der Geschichte ist.
Ich bin jedes mal überwältigt, wie ein solch umfassendes und vielfältiges Werk geschaffen wurde, allein von einem Autor.Ich habe es besonders gefeiert mehr über Tyrion zu lesen, denn er gehört definitiv zu einer meiner Lieblingscharaktere und manchmal hatte ich sogar etwas Sympatie für Jaime übrig.
Dammit, I want to be free to hate him like a cartoon villain!
Adding to the moral confusion, I feel for, and start to fear for the Hound as his path crosses Arya's, and start to ponder the 'right' outcome with regard to Stannis and Melisandre.In other news, Sansa Stark continues to only see worth in pretty things as she's wed to Tyrion, who meets a new, possibly quite formidable player, I'm saddened as yet more Stark children are parted from their wolves, and Jon has to add another betrayal to his belt as he comes within spitting distance of Bran.Every time I've thought that I can see what is coming I've had the rug pulled out from under me so I have absolutely no clue as to where else the story could be going from here, but I'm extremely glad that I've already bought the next one ready for me to carry on finding out.
Forjam-se alianças e casamentos para consolidar o poder, casamentos tão estapafúrdios, que não admira que houvesse tantos bastardos.Gostei da evolução da história em torno da Daenerys e pouco mais.
Caramba, que suplicio!) e até a Sansa começa a mostrar sinais de alguma maturidade.Surpreendente foi ter começado a sentir alguma empatia com Jamie Lanister, o passado começa a desvendar-se e a revelar segredos inesperados.Espero que os próximos volumes provem que este meu (pequeno) desencanto não tem razão de ser.GRRM continua a provar que é um escritor de excelência, com um poder descritivo e uma capacidade criativa fora do comum.
Let's not deny it.
George R.
R. Martin is a bloody good author.
And who are the Dothrakis in Westeros?
In the chapter about Arya, after Lord Beric was "slayn" by the Hound: "Two of the Dothraki managed to regain their horses and flee" (P.
But in my opinion the major mistake the author made was making Robb to one of the main characters, but not giving him his own chapters.
Everybody was talking about the king in the north, the young wolf, but he did not have his own chapters.
The King in the North deserved his own chapters!
