https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/58107.Bobby_Fischer_Teaches_Chess
I hope Hollywood decides NOT to make this into a movie...This book gives a beginning player plenty of interesting examples, and focuses on two important aspects of the game: thinking ahead and recognizing opportunity (although there also seems to be huge emphasis on achieving mate while the opponent's king is trapped in the back row, presumably by his own errant play).
So, yes, I believe my game improved some from having read it, and I'm equally certain that no one shall ever bestow upon me the title of chess master.Beginning chess player?
I'll be the first to admit, I'm feckin' useless at chess.Bobby made me a little less feckin' usless.
This book would be better titled "Bobby Fischer Teaches a Very Limited Set of Mating Positions." It does a good job of teaching a person to recognize opportunities for checkmate.
There is nothing here about openings, middle-games, or principles of end-games like passed pawns, stalemates, etc.The presentation style is good, and the book does a good job of teaching the very limited set of mating positions that it bothers to present.
You'll never survive against a good player long enough to get to one of these mating positions without understanding controlling the center, pinning pieces, and immobilizing pieces, and getting into mobile positions.
يااااه، الكتاب الذي تعلمت منه مبادئ الشطرنج منذ سنوات. لا أذكر محتويات الكتاب؛ ولذلك لن أقيّمه ولكني ما زلت أذكر مبادئ الشطرنج بالطبع :D
كمبتدئة في عالم الشطرنج توقعت ان اتعلم اكثر ولكن لا باس به كبداية للاعب العالمي بوبي
In a real game, you start to see possibilities of checkmates a lot faster, but also your general game improves by understanding these concepts that don't just apply to endgame situations.
I used to just know the rules and play more or less just reacting to moves or improvising, not being able to see a path to victory.
If you had given me a queen and a rook and unlimited moves without the opponent reacting, it would still probably have taken me forever to checkmate.
My boyfriend said that my chess game improved by at least 200 points just by reading this book!
The book focuses on the endgame: back rank mating.
It is organized into so-called "Frames" in which there are checkmating lessons, puzzles and solutions.
I could say the book is aimed at the beginners but that doesn't mean chess players of higher ranks won't have benefit from it.
It opens up your eyes to look for checkmate opportunities.Recommended to those who are interested in chess.I suggest you write down numbers of the frames that seemed challenging to you, so that in case you decided to review, you can refer to those frames.P.S. You can feel Bobby Fischer's pride in the sentences of this book.
كتاب نافع للغاية حول سُبل إماتة الشاه في لعبة الشطرنج، لأسطورة الشطرنج العالمي "بوبي فيشر".
Only really useful for complete beginners.
You'll likely learn how to do back rank checkmates. This was my first chess book.
This is the first chess book I've read cover-to-cover and as such it's a very interesting read.
Back-rank mates will work against weaker players but stronger players will be well schooled in the defence of such attempts.
I could be wrong but I don't think many kids will be picking this as their way into learning chess.
Surely there are better ways to make the puzzles work?Overall a good book, I'd recommend it to players who want to polish their mating but seasoned players will likely be beyond this book.
Bobby Fischer Teaches Back Rank Mates would be a more accurate title, and a title that included the other two coauthors would be more accurate still. But never mind the cover. This is a handy little course in beginner's-level tactics. The coauthors use their method of "programmed instruction," a series of bite-sized exercises, each with immediate feedback to reinforce each lesson. The scope is limited, but the method is self-paced and engaging. It has me thinking about using programmed instruction with my students.
Chess kindergarten. Do not expect any thoughtful method designed by the World Champion. This is but a sheer array of chess diagrams with Bobby Fischer never taking any part in it, merely scribbling his signature on the top of the sham. -----------------------Exercices d'échecs pour les joueurs dans leurs débuts, qu'on ne s'attende pas à un apprentissage fouillé, Bobby Fischer a apposé sa signature au livre, rien de plus.
I definitely improved after reading this book
I would say this limited aim was accomplished, though not much more.
The book is presented in the form of continuous tactical exercises where a chess match is presented and you must determine the best way to checkmate or avoid one with a series of up to 3 moves.
It's a good way to learn, with continuous exercise helping teach the moves.My biggest gripe is that it's very limited in scope.
He doesn't cover openings or mid games, just focusing on the final few moves required to make a chess mate.
That being said, if your aim is to get a bit better at chess, it definitely accomplishes that goal.
I suggest this book for everyone who wants to be a better chess player
I picked this book up at a Garage sale like four years ago and started reading it on a trip to Atlanta.
The book itself is a well written guide on how to improve your personal chess game which is peppered with anecdotes and examples from the life and career of Grand Master Bobby Fischer.
He set's up over 300 pages of examples of chess problems and works through the solutions with the reader.
I took my time reading this book and finished it a year or so ago.
This book is about the one thing Bobby Fisher undeniably knew well - chess (this review will not comment on his ideas on other subjects).
It is an excellent tutorial for improvement, and will work for chess players at any level, or even those who have never played.
Fisher's premise is that the object of the game is to achieve checkmate, therefore the most basic thing to learn is how to do so.
For me, this was an excellent shift in perception - whereas before my game focused on immediate concerns like taking more pieces than my opponent or not losing my queen, after I had done these exercises, I was far more focused on the big picture.
The format is to present a chess position and ask the reader to decide how to achieve a checkmate or some other gain in a couple of moves; each problem is presented on one page with the answer on the next page, on the right-hand side of the book - once you've gone through it, you turn it over, as it continues back through the book on the other pages in the same way.
The problems slowly get progressively more technical, though as mentioned it stays pretty basic all the way.When I read this as a teenager who was just starting to play chess seriously, this was what I needed, with a good balance of explanation and practical application and not over my head.
I've played chess since I was a kid and I consider myself quite good, but I've never formally learnt openings, strategies, tactics etc.
In an attempt to improve my game I hunted around the top books list and Bobby Fischer kept coming up.The format of this book is essentially nearly 300 chess positions which develop your understanding of common tactics for checkmate.
If you want a good book for exercising your ability to spot a checkmate then this is will be a good quick read, but look elsewhere for more depth.
Back when this was written, "programmed learning" was very popular.
This is written in that way.
If you already play chess fairly well, this won't help you.
But if you don't know how to play, or barely know how, I strongly recommend this as your first primer.
Very well done, and always my recommendation for an introduction to my favorite game (and addiction).
I wish I'd thought of using this to introduce my daughter to the game; I taught her the moves when she was 2 or 3, and then didn't know how to move on from there.
a very basic book, fun to read!!!
the book starts with the discussion about basic movements of pawns and pieces.
Then it proceeds to discuss basic bank rank mating patterns and defense techniques.
If you are a beginner in chess and if you like to improve your game, this would be a really good one to start with!
I am basic learner in chess and I managed to finish reading the book without working out the patterns on a chess board, not even once!
I definitely recommend this one if you are beginner/intermediate player and really interested in improving your game.
Consistency of thought is what this book taught me.
Since I am a beginner in chess I always struggled with thinking 3,4 moves ahead and predicting my opponents move in a similar fashion.
The focal point of the book was based on some key basic strategies for check mate like back rank attack, hemming king check mate and displacing defenders for check mate.
I sincerely recommend it to all beginners in chess to make them see those basic moves of check mate and further strengthening their game.
Although it wouldn't be of much help for intermediate players but its worth the brain exercise.
This is a pretty good book! Not a bunch of theoretical words and "gambits", it is really just a gresst number of examples where you get to figure out how to mate black. Reads pretty quickly, but teaches pretty well. Good to keep in the car where you can hit it in snippets.
a nice mini book.. took me less than 24 hours to finish.. the only setback for this book is :it's almost too easy even for a beginner, such as me, but you won't regret reading it.
Excellent guide for learning to play chess......by the world master Bobby Fischer
An informative guide to chess for beginners. Well-written and succinct.
very good for absolute beginners
This is a very unique chess book - It mostly teaches the basic principles and tactics of chess starting from the possible legal moves of each chess piece and progresses gradually from discovered checks to back rank check mates and defenses to more complex positional plays and tactics.
It is designed to teach novices in a progressive manner and more advanced players can pick up from where they feel.The book has a bit of eccentricity to it in the manner in which it is printed - It is printed on the right side first and when you come to the end, you need to turn the book around and read through what is printed upside down on the left side.
Set as a serious of one-move chess problems.
Problems are printed on the right-hand page (turn the page to find the solution).
Then at the end of the book, turn it upside down and read it back to front!
The problems are very useful for beginners to practise checkmate patterns, and to immediately gain feedback.
Tactics training is good because unlike traditional problems, sometimes checkmate is not possums!
Also, this book uses no chess notation.
Everything is explained using diagrams and arrows, and therefore there is no need for beginners to struggle with chess notation to use the book!
