https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40422.Tarzan_the_Terrible
You end up with Tarzan caught between two ancient civilizations, which seems to happen a lot to him.
He was either saying the scientists got it wrong, or the dinosaurs had become meat eaters as time passed.
I almost got the sense he scoffed at the idea of a vegetarian dinosaur, but that's conjecture.Next we have Jane, still captured by the German Soldier as she was in the last book.
(OK I made those up but you get the idea.) Of course, some of Tolkein's names confused me as well, so it could just be me.
I remember first encountering the verb "wrest" in Tarzan of the Apes and pondering the fact that it means almost the opposite of "rest." Initially, that made for a little confusion in a sentence like "they lay down upon their blankets to wrest, through sleep, a brief respite of forgetfulness." Anyway, "wrest" is one of his words that would be more effective if used less often.
On the other hand, without first thoroughly enjoying books like this, I might never have found my way to literature.
I liked how not just Tarzan, but all the good guy characters (including Jane!) are pretty darn awesome.I felt Burroughs got a little too cutesy with concealing the identity of the man with the rifle until the end; people who have read the rest of the series will know who it is immediately, first-timers won't get it at all.For more adventure reviews, see http://www.skjam.com/tag/adventure/
I honestly can't stand Don W Jenkins' voice
Three quotes:{Burrough’s vision of humanity}So rapt had Tarzan been in the scene below him that he had given no thought to escape, for he realized that for him and Pan-at-lee time had in these brief moments turned back countless ages to spread before their eyes a page of the dim and distant past.
Instantly the Tor-o-don urged the beast close beneath the tree which held them, at the same time leaping to his feet upon the horny back.
This is the first time Tarzan and Jane find each other after about a year (2 books) apart, in which she was kidnapped – very spoilerific.}Before the rude shelter built among the branches he paused listening.
EL argumento de esta novela podría trasladarse sin la más mínima dificultad al escenario de Barsoon, cambiando a tarzan por john carter, y no notaríamos la diferencia.Y es que, si el conjunto de los personajes de Burroughs es gris y sin personalidad, sus héroes no se salvan.
como todos los enemigos de Tarzán) es el apelativo "tudesco de cara de cerdo".LO único realmente reseñable de esta obra es la invencion de Pal_ull_Don, el mundo prehistórico, no por el nulo provecho que le sacaría Burroughs, sino por que los autores que trasladaron las aventuras de tarzan al comic sí supieron aprovecharlo, y muy en especial el genial Russ Manning, que convirtió la tierra de los dinosaurios en el escenario de las aventuras trepidantes que su creador fue incapaz de desarrollar.
By the time I finished this book I began to ask myself just how many times Jane can be kidnapped.
This is number 8 in the series and I haven't read past 2, but it appears that a lot of water has passed under the bridge in the intervening books.
Tarzan finds himself in a prehistoric corner of the jungle where triceratops roam free and people have highly organised societies and intelligence and look just like Tarzan except for their thumbs and toes and the fact that they have long tails.
And some are covered with fur like seal-skin.
Quite entertaining.
Tarzan the Terrible was a great book. I read it without knowing it was in a series, but it still made sense. It had many different twists and turns that I never predicted. The story line is interesting because while Tarzan is in search of his wife Jane, he meets many different races of civilized people. He helps them fight battles and solves some of their problems then moves on.  The beginning was a little slow but it is action packed at the end. It also had a very high vocabulary. A good book, but not for young readers.
The more books I read in this series, the less I enjoy them. The last few books have all had the same basic plot. In this book, many of the places and characters even have similar names adding confusion and thus making the book less interesting. It's also odd the role Tarzan and Jane's son plays in this book. It's as though Burroughs believes his audience has read enough books to forget such a large detail only to bring him back in what he thinks is a surprise.
Not one of my favorites from the series. The use of multi-hyphenated names starting mostly with "J" for everything and everyone in the strange land Tarzan found himself got to be annoying. Also a little too much political intrigue in between head banging. Tarzan is his usual godly self though and Jane is strong and independent. And carnivorous triceratops - Yikes!
Last one I've read, Burroughs' writing style was getting boring.
Other exciting ports of call on the lord of the jungle's map include sister cities Castra Sanginarius and Castrum Mare; Xuja, in the valley of Luna; the ant men's civilization within a thorn barrier; and other bizarre locales.Opar is an absolute blast however my hands-down favorite party town in Africa has to be Pal-ul-don, where our hero spends most of his time in TARZAN THE TERRIBLE [Tarzan-jad-guru in the lingua franca of Pal-ul-don].
In the thirteenth Tarzan novel Burroughs basically reused the device once more by taking Lord Greystoke to Pellucidar, a lost land but not a lost city in Africa.No worries, it's as solid a fictional vehicle when employed by ERB as it was when, more than a decade later, Robert E.
For example, " Ko-tan now appears to accept the stranger as Dor-ul-Otho.
He presides over a dispute involving Ja-don, the Lion Man, father of his friend Ta-den." Since I was listening to what appears to be the last audio recording of the 24 volume Tarzan series (Libravox and any other source it seems as next book, Tarzan and the Golden Lion is not on audio.
Nice he figured out how to tame Gryf, though I can live a long time without hearing the Libravox narrator do his "wheee-ooh" impression again.
I guess you figured out they don't die since there are 16 more of these adventures to slog through.
His journey takes him to another lost city in a hidden corner of Africa, a plot device that will be more and more relied upon as Tarzan’s adventures continue.Pal-ul-don is one of the more fleshed out of these lost civilizations and Burroughs even includes a glossary of their language at the end of the book as well as instructions on how it developed.
These two groups are adversaries and this forms the main plot of the story.There are a couple of surprises in store but fans of the series will most certainly recognize the identity of one mysterious character who is trailing after Tarzan.
A fun, if dated, read.Tarzan series - Tarzan the Terrible continues the adventure begun in Tarzan the Untamed (1920) -- in that volume, the Lord of the Jungle discovered the burnt corpse of his wife, Jane, after a visit to his African home by German soldiers in 1914.
In this volume, Tarzan learns that Jane was not murdered by the Germans but kidnaped-- and sets off in pursuit.
Tarzan has tracked his mate to Pal-ul-don, a hidden valley in where he finds a land of dinosaurs and men even stranger-- humanoids with tails.
Pal-ul-don is where Jane is being held captive.
Still early WW1 and Tarzan is searching Africa for Jane who has been kidnapped by the Germans.
In this book he heads into a region where he finds previously unknown cultures living amongst dinosaurs!As the last pages got fewer and fewer I began to wonder if some of it was going to be continued in the next book.
But the final battle and the reunion were great reading.
I especially like Jane’s time alone in the jungle.Fave scenes: Pan-at-lee finding and cleaning up the old cave, the stranger crossing the swamp & lake, Tarzan in the forbidden garden, Jane’s spear and the stranger’s timely arrival.
Tarzan, at the end of the previous Tarzan book, "Tarzan the Untamed", discovered that Jane is still alive, so off he goes to rescue her. In so doing, he enters the Lost Land of Pal-ul-don, with its races of humans with tails and a triceratops-like dinosaur, among other prehistoric creatures. Action packed and as good as the later Tarzan novels get.
Eight books in, the series feels like the same story over and over. Someone gets captured. Tarzan must overcome obstacles. He has many near misses and only when all hope is lost does he win. Some are interesting, so that is all right. This one was mostly boring from start to finish.
Started off slow and I almost lost interest. Glad I kept on going I ended up really enjoying the story. It's amazing the control of all jungle creatures Tarzan has. Only problem I had was how fast they learned.The language of the natives in order to speak it fluently.
Jane kidnapped. Tarzan follow Jane. Tarzan captured, Tarzan escape. Tarzan find Jane. The end. Pretty much every one of the books after #4 has followed the same pattern, just changing locations and occasionally changing the order a bit.
Last read 50 years ago. What strikes me is ERB comments on politics, religion and society in the background. Fun nostalgic read
De repente va muy lento, pero cumple muy bien con lo que el buen Edgar nos tiene acostumbrados, ya después de ocho libros de Tarzan.
One of my favorite Tarzan novels.
Slow with unwieldy names, hard to follow but finally makes an end with full come around finish.
Oh. . . My. . . Gosh. Survival, adventure, ancients, lost civilizations, rituals, ruins & architecture, love, warcraft AND dinosaurs? Yes please!
Frog's
Of the ERB Tarzan novels I've read, this is my favorite.
Jane is back! Also this book was heavier on evolution than some of the others, but I just ignored those parts. I loved how Korak showed up in this one, just in time to save his father Tarzan from being sacrificed to a false god. This one was good.
Picking up where  Tarzan the Untamed  left off, Tarzan heads into deepest, darkest Africa in search of Jane who, as we learned in the final pages of the previous book, wasn't really burned to a crisp by Germans after all. I approached this one with trepidation, knowing that I'd be dealing with the over-hyphenated language of Pal-ul-Don. Within the first few chapters, we are introduced to scores of crazy place-names and characters such as O-mat, Lu-don, Ta-den, O-lo-a, Ja-don, Ko-tan, Bu-lot, Mos
And remember the Burroughs rule: unless you are told for certain that a character is dead, expect them to reappear at an inopportune moment to cause trouble for Tarzan & Co. For most of the book Jane is just the maguffin Tarzan's been pursuing for two books.
(view spoiler)[It would have been satisfying if she'd been the one to finally dispatch Obergatz, but that duty fell to another character in what is almost a deus ex machina moment.
I never expected to enjoy this series of books as much as I am.
So, time had passed between #1 and this one, #8.There is some story here to do w/the Germans that seems like it must be addressed in an earlier Tarzan story.
That other ERB story I just read, Pellucidar had a hoity-toity front-end...1st....ummmm, 35% of the story, and that was dropped, or I got used to it one....so maybe at times he was writing for effect.
