https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9534.Shadow_of_the_Hegemon
5.0 stars. Sometimes love is not a strong enough word so I am going to borrow from Woody Allen, "I LURVE THIS BOOK!!! This is my second favorite book in both Ender series (behind only Speaker for the Dead). In fact, like Speaker for the Dead, I thought this book significantly surpassed its predecessor, Ender's Shadow which I loved by the way.  This story takes place in the latter half of the 22nd century (so my poster above is for the 2208 elections), soon after the end of the Formic (aka Bugg
This is my second favorite book in both Ender series (behind only Speaker for the Dead).
In fact, like Speaker for the Dead, I thought this book significantly surpassed its predecessor, Ender's Shadow which I loved by the way.
This story takes place in the latter half of the 22nd century (so my poster above is for the 2208 elections), soon after the end of the Formic (aka Bugger) War when all of the gifted children of the Battle School that fought under Ender have returned to Earth.
I'm tired of you Orson Scott Card.Ender's Game was fun.
That's how Card seems to roll these days.This book scrapped the idea of character development entirely.
Card even acknowledges that the story is essentially RISK set in a near future.I don't like RISK, I'm not interested in strategy.
I enjoyed the earlier Ender books because I like the pacing and the characters.
None of the characterization or physical detail got through in this volume.Maybe Card should stick to alien worlds and invented environments?
I might not mind this as much in a political thriller, but this story is set 200 years in the future.
I enjoyed Shadow of the Hegemon but not nearly as much as Ender's Shadow, the first in the Shadow series.I don't know, and I had this same problem after finishing Speaker for the Dead (Book 2 in the main Ender series), but I just feel like this series is getting beat to death.
His motivations for his evil are explained, but I'm tired of it and ready to move on to another threat.Now that the alien threat is over, earth once again turns to its old ways - countries are back at each other and the best military minds in the world, the battleschool kids, are the prime currency.Other than great plotting and highly believable characters, Hegemon delves into some deep topics from time to time that I found quite interesting to ponder; notions such as, What is living without children?
The story is practically about the struggle for world dominance after the Bugger War, in which the Battle School children, as well as Ender’s brother, Peter Wiggins a.k.a., Locke are involved.
Enters Achilles who Bean imprisoned in the previous book, Ender’s Shadow so Achilles stages a revenge here starting with the imprisonment of the remaining classmates of Ender.
I particularly liked the one between Bean, an orphan like Achilles, and Ender’s mother.
These lines that pinch my heart.I can wait to read more and more Orson Scott Card’s books.
Plasată după încheierea luptei dintre omenire și "furnici", acțiunea din  Umbra Hegemonului  urmărește luptele și intrigile politice ce sfâșie Pământul după desființarea Școlii de luptă. Odată ajunși pe Pământ, foștii membrii ai armatei lui Ender sunt răpiți și folosiți pentru a planifica strategia militară a celor ce visează să conducă lumea. Reușind să evite mai multe tentative de asasinare, Bean se desparte de familia sa și pornește în căutarea Petrei, fosta lui colegă din armata lui Ender.De
Reușind să evite mai multe tentative de asasinare, Bean se desparte de familia sa și pornește în căutarea Petrei, fosta lui colegă din armata lui Ender.Deși stilul lui Orson Scott Card rămâne la fel de captivant, se simte o detașare care te îndepărtează de personaje, accentul căzând de aceasta dată pe evoluția politică globală și implicațiile pe care le are fiecare alegere, fiecare acțiune.
Nimeni nu înţelege pe nimeni.Pentru că oamenii sunt doar nişte maşini, Petra ştia foarte bine asta, maşini care fac ceea ce vrei tu dacă ştii pe ce butoane să apeşi.
Not only can these kids come up with brilliant military strategies and analyze people to predict possible behaviors/plans of action, but they are always right about it.
Forget that people aren't 100% predictable and that there are as many possibilities as there are people to think of them--because there are no options, just right answers and wrong answers.(4) I feel like I'm being preached to.Card has strong opinions about life, morality, and philosophy, and he takes every opportunity in all of his books to give us a "Card Sermon." I've noticed this before, but this book is the first time that it has really bothered me.
In the previous books, this was used for character development and I enjoyed it.
In this one, it seemed like the author used it more as a gimmick.
The whole book was one genius child or another making impossible guesses about what another genius child was doing and why.
I am interested in knowing what happens to Bean eventually given his physical condition, but am not sure I want to wade through the next two books to find out.
And the fate of the nations of Earth in this series seems like unimportant subject matter now that the aliens have been beaten.
I liked the Ender quartet and Ender's Shadow too much not to try.
Ender’s Game is a fun fast paced book of adventure while the other three books in the Ender quartet borderline on genius.
The formulations of issues of xenophobia are uncanny in SFTD, Xenocide, COTM and integration of Christian beliefs into the mix yield an unparallel argument for empathy being central in Christianity and for human evolution as a whole.
Then, Ender's Shadow reverts back to the fun, fast-pasted way the first book in the series, Ender's game, was.
There’s simply nothing cool about it like Ender’s Game or Ender’s Shadow.
2 stars for the book, one for the audio production.First, the audio production: After the excellent production of Ender's Shadow, this book returns with the same actors, but gets everything wrong.
I loved Ender's Shadow.
Shadow of the Hegemon was far weaker.
While I was willing to suspend disbelief that a bunch of kids could be entrusted to battle the buggers, getting involved in geopolitics is too far-fetched.Card's diatribes on religion and morals get annoying in this book.
Characters don't talk to each other, they make speeches at each other.Finally, the book doesn't end so much as hit "pause" and make you read the next one.
For this mean I shouldn't have rely my preference of picking a book at the rating detail nor should I be persuaded by the negative reviews of other readers.After the successful battle of defeating the buggers, Ender’s Jeesh has been brought back to earth—to be with their respective families—except for Ender Wiggin who never has had the chance to be with his own family because his been exiled by Locke, who’s Peter Wiggin, his brother, behind the curtain.
There were just so many things about this audiobook (and book) that annoyed me.
Now, I know that a lot of OSC's religious views (and misogyny) come out in his books but this is the first one that has really annoyed me.
The characters of Ender, Valentine, and Bean can usually anchor me back into an Enderverse story but the first two are mostly absent from the Shadow series and Bean was not his usual self in this book (read: he was super annoying) and none of the other characters really kept me interested.
As I am sure I have said in reviews for previous additions to the Ender series, I love seeing how the characters minds work.
I never would have expected the lame bully from the streets of Rotterdam in the beginning of Ender's Shadow would grow to be such a driving force in the next installment, let alone in the world of the book.
He is an evil psychopath.
But he somehow managed to be one of the most attractive fictional psychopaths I've heard of.
Definitely my favourite of the Shadow series so far.
All the Battle School kids are back on earth and they are basically shunted away as being "just" children.
The adults thus all trust the proven sociopathic killer with no track record of competence, while they all seem to mistrust the Battle School vets?Somehow, in his incredibly annoying afterward, Card seems to justify all this by the examples of other great men like Alexander and Napoleon.
By contrast, Achilles sole claim to fame was that he was thrown out of Battle School and into a mental hospital.
The Battle School environment in Ender's Game and in Ender's Shadow is pretty cool.
Compared to other scifi/fantasy books, Orson Scott Card's Ender series is pretty good.
Shadow of the Hegemon doesn't totally ruin the series like Xenocide did, and the characters all seem true to themselves and are developed decently.
The book thankfully doesn't have the ridiculously long start-up time that Speaker for the Dead had, and it doesn't have the even more ridiculously tedious history of Xenocide.Remember that throughout this story, Bean, Petra, Achilles, and Suriyawong are all supposed to be like, 14 or 15.
It's a problem that's characteristic of the rest of the series, but it's still a problem.Orson Scott Card's also a huge fan of doing really dramatic paragraphs.Like this.These are just technical flaws, though.
MINI-REVIEW:I am sure that were I given an opportunity to converse with author Orson Scott Card regarding the vast empires, rulers/kings and military leaders that the world has seen rise and fall, from Alexander the Great to the great Caesars, from Charlemagne to Charles V, from Napoleon to Hitler and Stalin and Churchill and Roosevelt, we’d have an engaging time.
I’m boring that way (in fact that that’s how I once caught the attention of a former, handsome--yet equally boring--boyfriend, with a long conversation about Napoleon and the Roman Empire).
This book is terrible. It felt more like a Tom Clancy techno military thriller more than a SF book.
Science fiction writers in the last decade or two have given up almost entirely on the idea of writing about the near future -- the premise upon which Sci-Fi was originally based.
This is purportedly because modern technology is changing so quickly that attempting to make any predictions about what might happen in the near future seems futile -- by the time a book is published, it's ideas might already be obsolete.
al.) or else remove all pretense of being realistic (China Mieville, steampunk etc.) Viewed in that context, OSC's fearless attempt to write about world politics a few hundred years in the future suddenly appears very ambitious indeed.
Per usual in the Ender series, all the children are geniuses and all the adults are morons.
It can be a little hard to swallow sometimes, especially Peter's rise to world leader as a teenager and 12 year olds commanding entire armies despite appearing no more brilliant than a typical (adult) general.
Petra and Bean's story are a big part of why I'm continuing to read despite my annoyances.
You never see HOW he manages to get anything done (other than violence, of course), unlike Bean, Ender, and Peter.
Just kill him already - the world is at stake!
A very smart, engaging read--though without the mass appeal of its predecessor, Ender's Shadow, mainly due to Card's decision to drop virtually all the sci-fi aspects, as well as to cut down on the amount of action contained in the story.
This would be a very difficult novel to pull off, seeing as how most of the characters in the story are geniuses who constantly brag about their extraordinary intelligence and there's a lot of expectation as to what brilliant ideas they will come up with next.
Yet, somehow, Card never flags in his portrayal of their extraordinary capabilities, despite just how brilliantly readers are expecting the characters to behave.
This is the second book I've read in the series in the same universe as the Ender Quartet.
I read it basically in 24 hours, which speaks to its fast pace and readability.
I'm starting to like this series possibly even more than the quartet.
This book deals a lot with military strategy, which doesn't tend to be my thing, but I was never bored with it - it actually puts you inside the mindset of military thinkers in a way that you understand and admire how they puzzle things out.
I'm looking forward to moving onto the next book.
Kind of similar to Robert Jordan's last few books in the Wheel of Time series, where he tries to write political intrigue, but doesn't do a great job.
I think that real political intrigue doesn't get conveyed well in a page-turner format, since the only way to explain everything is through a ton of exposition.We're constantly being told to appreciate how smart Bean and Petra are, with no real option other than taking the author's hand waving as evidence.I think I'm slowly realizing that despite the better writing, and the adult themes in these books, Orson Scott Card is basically writing young adult fiction here.
I love Peter.
Great Book!
Fantastic, just fantastic. The first one was so emotional whereas this one was so political intriguing and complex. P. S. I didn't expect that ending ❤
This time, I was having to get through pages of the Wiggins' mother whining about how hard it is to be religious and how they had to hide it from their children and their colleagues or no one would take them seriously.
It's one of those things where yeah, I'm sure that it's true for some people, but probably not as many people as it comes up for and it's just a weird fixation.I guess they feel like weird fixations because see, these are things Bean is supposed to come to appreciate.
Genial continuación de La Sombra de Ender que, en mi opinión, la supera por mucho. Un tira y afloja geoestratégico fabuloso en el que no falta la evolución de los personajes, haciéndolos muy reales y ayudando al lector a empatizar con ellos.
Bean is an interesting character to follow in his development, becoming almost likable in this book.In SotH, Card gives us not one but three strong female characters.
His lack of interest in female characters in Ender's Game and Ender's Shadow bugged me, but I knew that it wasn't a matter of discrimination - they just didn't fit in the Battle School world.
Mrs. Wiggin pleasantly surprised me here, although I found that Peter's character in this book was unconvincing as a future leader of the world.Ender's Game, and to a lesser extent Ender's Shadow, was a blockbuster space opera movie.
Remember the end of Ender’s Game, where we learn that several decades have passed since the end of the war, and Ender’s older brother Peter is now the Hegemon of a united Earth?
Specifically, it’s about Bean watching and helping Peter Wiggin as he becomes Hegemon of Earth, because he has to be someone’s shadow.
But this time, unlike with Ender, Bean really has no reasons to help someone else unite the world.
Not as Ender’s shadow, not as Peter’s shadow, not as Achilles’ foil, and certainly not as a smart kid who watches other people--the important ones, the influentual ones, and the interesting ones--as they work out the story Card should have, but didn’t, tell.
The follow up to Ender's Shadow, this unfortunately showcases Card's tendency to write sequels for the sake of growing a successful franchise, even when the stories don't quite merit it.
Again, this book showcases many of Card's strengths: internal character monologoues reveal mostly well developed characters with psychological foibles; moral and religious discussions/debates; strong young adults.
Older Battle School grads do have more experience than they do, and at least some of them must be as smart as the lesser members of Ender's jeesh, and presumably the best of those former grads will be in positions of power at this point in time.
This sequel to Ender's Shadow continues the story of Bean, while bringing over some plot that started in Ender's Game.
One of the major things I liked about this book was that it was able to successfully tie in Peters work in Ender's Game and bring it over into this series.
I also love the story line in this series, and I think this book does a very good job to start it off.
I suggest this series to all those who have read any books from the Enderverse (All the books that have to do with characters involved in Ender's Game).
