https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13037.Justine
Empty cadences of sea-water licking it’s own wounds,sulking along the mouths of the delta, boiling upon those deserted beaches– empty under the gulls: white scribble on the grey, munched by clouds." - Lawrence Durrell, JustineSometimes you discover a new author and know you’re going to be friends for life.
To Durrell it was a racially diverse city with its many religions and culture co-existing in one region, a place for academics and writers.
"I see at last that none of us is properly to be judged for what happened in the past.
It is the city which should be judged though we, its children, must pay the price."- Lawrence Durrell, JustineIt feels like reading Henry Miller and John Fowels mixed with Anthony Powell and Paul Bowles, salted, smoked, and flavored with the sex and refuse of Alexandria.
It was lush, brutal, beautiful, and horrible all at once.
It made me want to go (while knowing Durrell captured a place and time that will never exist again).
I felt like a peeping tom and a historian before a disaster.
Somewhere around the halfway mark the story seems to lose momentum and focus, and becomes much more about watching the freak show than guiding us through it and making us understand that we’re going towards an endpoint that will tie all the threads together.
In order to make the elegy worth it, you’ve got to make us understand why the living are writing it, and Durrell lost the plot for me there.
The point was in the magic for this one, and without it, there’s not much point continuing.I might finish it at another time, but I’d like to do it at a point where I might be able to appreciate the intent behind the metaphors and ignore the frustrating digressions.
For Once Four Was Too Few for a QuartetI decided to re-read "Justine" after something like 30 years before starting the subsequent books of  "The Alexandria Quartet"  for the first time.As much as I enjoyed the novel, I suspect that it will acquire even greater meaning and resonance once I've finished the Quartet.Each volume of the Quartet is named after one of the members of the narrator's peer group in pre-war Alexandria. The first page mentions four friends: Justine and Nessim, Melissa and Ba
Yet all four are the subject of fascinating character studies and feature heavily in the first volume.Collectively, they constitute a diversity of perspectives on the nature of time, space, experience, imagination and love that rival Proust.Yao Xiao - "Justine" (Wall Street Journal)Facets and FragmentsSuperficially, the novel is written in a realistic style.
I have been meaning to read the Alexandria Quartet for many years and now seems to be a good time.
It is set in Alexandria and there is a strong supporting cast of characters: Pombal, an official at the French consulate who lives with Darley; Capodistria, a Greek who is a broker; Scobie, a transvestite; Pursewarden, another novelist.
The writing is poetic and luscious and you can feel the shimmering heat of Alexandria and its scents, colours and sounds.
This is only the first piece and the tale is retold in the rest of the Quartet, but the imagery is as shimmering and dreamlike as the city.
This book is suffused with wistful nostalgia, with Mediterranean languor and the love and lust of yesterday. I lived in Egypt many years ago and this book brought back my own nostalgic memories of carefree youth. So perhaps I'm a biased reader. But who isn't?
Any positive attributes of Lawrence Durrell's book are completely destroyed by Jack Klaff's narration.
By the end, I wanted to continue with "Balthazar", but I simply couldn't due to the terrible narration.*********************I struggled with this book.
The book presents the thoughts of an unnamed narrator that has a girlfriend called Melissa, but he also has an affair with Justine, who is married to Nessim.
The majority of the book follows people going after their own personal goals, the end follows what then happened, what were the consequences of these choices.
I tremble when I think that I have to hear more of his narration as I continue the next book.
As you most likely know, this is the first book of Lawrence Durrell's acclaimed Alexandria Quartet.
Unless by "about" you mean, what does it feel like?
It feels like a warm, ancient, beautiful, decaying, diverse, passionate, decadent city that seems to permeate the lives of its inhabitants, most of whom seem obsessed with sex.
So it is a lot about sex and what it means, and how it relates to love and manipulation, and if any of this has any moral basis.
In fact I couldn't stop thinking about the last line of the book.
I'll let you know how Balthazar turns out.
This is my third time reading this book, but this time I listened.
It was amazing how much of the words I had internalized, and I found myself smiling along with some of the parts that were familiar.
I'm looking forward to actually finishing the quartet this time around (fingers crossed) and reading the other parts of the story.
The audiobook also had a track at the end where a Durrell scholar discusses the quartet and the city of Alexandria as a character.
I got a lot out of it, and was glad I listened to those 24 minutes.
روايه غريبه فيها عمق انسانى واضح:امرأة.زرجه.عاهرة (جوستين) يدور الكل فى فلكها كعادة الانثى الأصيله فى أنها مركز الأحداث فى هذا الكون.اجنبى يتحدث عن مجتمع الأجانب فى مدينه من أعظم مدن العالم (الاسكندريه) المدينه سحرتهم وصبغتهم بصبغتها المعقده.من وجهة نظرى فى هذا الجزء لم يركز الكاتب على المدينه وتأثيرها بقدر تركيزه على الأشخاص نفسهمملحمه انسانيه جيده جدا .
من حب وكره واحترام واحتقار)من حب عذرى عفيف لشغف وهوس بالجنس لدرجة الشذوذ .عجبنى جدا ان الكاتب ركز على الفكرة نفسها ولم يتطرق الى الأحداث المصاحبه لها.اتكلم عن الجنس (مثلا) ولكنه لم يتطرق الى طريقة ممارسته من قِبل الأبطال.الترجمه محترفه جدا .
بدايه مبشرة جدا للرباعيه.
It has some real gems - sentences or ideas that are wonderful and crystallize clearly something which is true about the world.Loving is so much truer when sympathy and not desire makes the match; for it leaves no wounds.Or Lovers are never equally matched - do you think?
Surely this is the only tragic thing about love?There's a lot more - I'd say about 25-30 good tiny snippets in this novel.Unfortunately, these small gems are packed in wads and wads of grey paper which you have to carefully slog through in order to uncover them.Durrell will write 5 or 10 pages of the most pretentious, boring stuff you've ever read.
Lawrence Durrell's writing is a shimmering beauty, and he makes you wish for a piece of his Alexandria as much as you want to pity and love and embrace his characters.
His descriptions and observations of the human condition are as deep as that of any philosopher, and when his prose hits that high note, well, you are left dazzled.
But I wouldn't lie that it is a straight forward book and the story falls in place with each page flipped, but a concentrated reading will be well worth it.
It is indeed one among the books that leave you a better person.
I look forward to the second installment of this quartet!
CavafySummer 2013 Egyptian Encounters:Cleopatra (1963)3* The Mummy Curse2* Alexandria: The Last Nights of Cleopatra4* The Complete Valley of the Kings1* Ancient Egypt by George Rawlinson4* Tutankhamen: Life and death of a Pharoah2* The Luxor Museum3* Tutankhamen's Treasure3* The Black Pharaoh\3* Nubian Twilight..../ complimentary reading!4* River God4* House of EternityThe Egyptian (1954)Agora (2009)4* JustineDeath on the Nile (1978)2* Nefer the Silent5* The Seventh Scroll5* The White NileCR An Evil Spirit out of the WestNefertiti Resurrected3* WarlockQueen Pharaoh - HatshepsutTR: The Albert N'Yanza, Great Basin of the Nile and Explorations of the Nile Sources Verdi: Aïda - San Francisco Opera (starring Luciano Pavarotti) FULL: The libretto does not specify a precise time period, so it is difficult to place the opera more specifically than the Old Kingdom.
I pored toga što me je u više navrata ujeo za srce, Darel je odličan pisac i ovo je odličan roman.
Psihologija likova (i to kakvih) bez „psihoterapije“ kojoj je kao kontrast vrlo sklon pisac romana u romanu.
Zanima me samo kako će mi se sleći roman nakon nekog vremena, tojest da li ću zbog onako prirodno haotične narative „prisećanja“ romana zaboraviti šta se desilo pre nego što predjem na drugi deo (što će biti uskoro, planiram da pročitam kvartet cik-cak kako se ne bih presitio), no za sad je to i više nego odlično.
That said, Nessim did capture my attention; he did seem to be a man of substance and integrity, battling real demons both externally and within himself.Mostly, though, the men depicted in Justine made me wonder how tedious Durrell must have been as a husband, lover, and father.
It seems that Justine was based on a real woman in Durrell's life (or so it is said, though like most characters, she is probably an amalgam of women): a woman whom he felt he understood on one level but who completely baffled him on another.
Having just thrown away Dave Eggers’ Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius I was in the market for a book that read like it was trying.
Like it was really bloody worn out from wanting to be read.
For us artists there waits the joyous compromise through art with all that wounded or defeated us in daily life; in this way, not to evade destiny, as the ordinary people try to do, but to fulfill it in its true potential–the imagination.
1947, div.) Wife: Claude-Marie Vincendon (m.
Four “divs?” You owe it to his poor wives to at least try his writing…
"A CIDADEDisseste; “Vou partir para outra terra, vou partir para outro mar.Uma outra cidade melhor do que esta encontrar-se-á.Cada esforço meu um malogro escrito está;e é — como morto — enterrado o meu coração.A minha mente até quando irá ficar nesta estagnação.Para onde quer que eu olhe, para onde quer que eu fite por aíruínas negras da minha vida vejo aqui,onde tantos anos passei e dizimei e dei em estragar”.Lugares novos não vais encontrar, não encontrará outros mares.A cidade seguir-te-á. De
"A CIDADEDisseste; “Vou partir para outra terra, vou partir para outro mar.
Uma outra cidade melhor do que esta encontrar-se-á.
Para onde quer que eu olhe, para onde quer que eu fite por aí ruínas negras da minha vida vejo aqui, onde tantos anos passei e dizimei e dei em estragar”.Lugares novos não vais encontrar, não encontrará outros mares.
De volta pelos caminhos errarás os mesmos.
E nos bairros os mesmos envelhecerás; e dentro destas mesmas casas cobrir-te-ás de cãs.
Sempre a esta cidade chegarás.
Assim como dizimaste aqui a tua vida neste pequeno recanto, em toda a terra a vi estragares."Konstandinos KavafisAlexandria...
These are the moments which are not calculable, and cannot be assessed in words; they live on in the solution of memory, like wonderful creatures, unique of their own kind, dredged up from the floors of some unexplored ocean.Full review of sorts will ensue when the tetralogy is completed.
"Justine was a walking abstract of the writers and thinkers whom she had loved or admired - but what clever woman is more?" This charming novel certainly has the potential to rile feminists.Durrell places a quote from the Marquis' de Sades novel "Justine" at the start of this novel presumably to encourage the reader look for points in common that his heroine has with de Sade's.
However it sets the table splendidly for the rest of the quartet as it very effectively establishes the themes of Sadistic love and Gnostic spirituality.
They are simply bottom-sniffings raised to the rank of formal ceremonies.-- How grudging memory is, and how bitterly she clutches the raw material of her daily work.-- And morality is nothing if it is merely a form of good behaviour.-- People only see in us the contemptible skirt-fever which rules our actions but completely miss the beauty-hunger underlying it.-- Somewhere in the the heart of experience there is an order and a coherence which we might surprise if we were attentive enough, loving enough, or patient enough.
"Justine" is not an easy book by any standard --the language is often baroque, the underlying ideas complex and challenging -- but it is one of those rare, brilliant novels that creates an entire self-contained universe.
The lost world of multinational, pluralistic pre-war Alexandria, Egypt comes to life in all of its mysterious romance.
Not any easy read for bedtime or the beach, but well worth the investment.
Incidentally, for a different take on a similar landscape, I'd also suggest Andre Aciman's riveting memoir, Out of Egypt.
Tik vilinoši sācies, vēlāk šis darbs mani nogurdināja ar ārkārtīgi gariem mēģinājumiem aprakstīt un psiholoģiski/filozofiski izanalizēt Justīnes personību. Tā arī nespēju viņu ne ieraudzīt ne saprast. Ar citiem tēliem veicās drusku labāk, tomēr visveiksmīgākā ir sanākusi pilsēta. Vispār romāns par dažu cilvēku toksisku apsēstību eksotiskā pilsētā. Nākamais romāns ciklā sola Baltazara filozofisko skatījumu uz šo mīlasstāstu. Šaubos, vai tam man pietiks spēka.Pilnā atsauksme https://gramatas.wordpress.com/2017/0... Beigās pat, apdomājot izlasīto tekstu, nosliecos uz 3 zvaigznēm, jo autors nav vainīgs, ka man man viņa filozofēšana negāja pie sirds.
He has affairs with a woman named Melissa and a married woman named Justine, and friendships with a homosexual, Balthazar, Justine's husband, Nessim, and various members of the British diplomatic corps.
Mostly he thinks about love and sex, and the atmospherics of Alexandria.
I'm told you have to read the other three parts of the Alexandria Quartet to get the full picture, so maybe I will do that.Durrell likes the word velvet.
Somehow this, for me, was sadder than the diplomat's wife whose head was cut off as she waited in the back of a car, by Bedouin women who wanted the gold in her teeth.
I don't think I got much else from it except that it was a tragic love story set in the fascinating city of Alexandria, Egypt.
Durrell is on a level with Camus as a writer and deals in the ways of the heart as deeply as Camus dealt with the mind.
As in much good fiction, the city of Alexandria acts as a character and is in fact accused for a good deal of what happens.
In fact, Justine is the first volume of what became "The Alexandria Quartet." That means three more visits with these characters and that amazing city.
هو الكتاب الاول من الرباعية ل لورانس داريلالكاتب بيتميز بالشعر و الوصف العذب للمدينة و الأحاطة بكافة جوابن العادات و الطرق و الأعمال ومواعيدها و اشكال الحياة فيهارسم رايع للشخصيات.. تشري للشخصيات و فلسفة قويةالعمل يبدو كلحث فى الخب المعاصريعيبةقلة الاحداث فى بداية العململ ثقيل لن اناقش فكرتة لأني احتاج لقرائتة مرة اخرى لكي يتسم بالوضوخ قبل الشروع فى باقى الاجزاءأبتداءًا من الفصل الثالت صارت الاحداث سريعه جدا و رائعه و ختم الرواية بقصيدتين رائعتين يستعرض فيهم موهبتةرواية من اهم ما قرئت ولن أنساها أبد الدهر لمست روح الكاتب فيها :Dرواية اعجز عن كتابة ريفيو عنها للأسف
The setting is very romantic, Egypt in the 1930's and the central character, although a teacher by profession, is part of a social circle of wealthy and creative individuals whose lives are intertwined.
They seem to have all the time in the world to spend with each other contemplating life, love and creativity.
Lovely to wallow in (see quote below) but also quite enjoyably exhausting too as it is such a descriptive and lush read.'In autumn the female bays turn to uneasy phosphorus and after the long chafing days of dust one feels the first palpitations of the autumn, like the wings of a butterfly fluttering to unwrap themselves.
The first thing I did when I finished this book was to go back to the beginning, then to re-read the parts I had marked. I'm sure it will be one of my favorites for the rest of my life. The prose is beautiful (I found myself stopping to read some of it out loud), the characters are interesting, and I'm looking forward to reading the rest of the Alexandria Quartet.
Kitapla ilgili ne yazacağımı gerçekten bilemiyorum; çünkü sevdim mi sevmedim mi ondan bile emin değilim henüz. Sanırım ne hissettiğimi tam olarak anlayabilmem için üzerinden biraz zaman geçmesi gerekecek. Bu zaman geçene kadar da İskenderiye Dörtlüsü'ne devam edemeyeceğim gibi görünüyor...
At times, the over-inflated language actually worked and it was able to touch on something profound and/or beautiful.
but Bachmann's book was able to be deadly serious while also not taking itself so seriously on the surface.
I think this book aspires to be that as well, but it drags itself down by the incredible weight of its own will.The other thing that's a pity was that I really wanted to read all four in this quartet when I started...
but at this point I don't think I want to invest more in this reading experience.
The male narrator had an affair both with Justine and Melissa although he is a friend to Nessim and an acquaintance to Balthazar.
Melissa fell in love with Nessim and told him that his wife, Justine was no longer faithful to him.
The narrator, although still in love with Justine, did not answer the letter closing the story with "Does not everything depend on our interpretation of the silence around us?".There goes the first book (published in 1957) of the Indian-born British writer, Lawrence Durrell, one of the most famous modern writers using the beautiful city of Alexandria, Egypt as its back draft.
