https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3345560-the-talleyrand-maxim
Really enjoyable page-turner of a murder mystery.
JS Fletcher was one of the leading writers of detective fiction in the "Golden Age".
I enjoyed this form of detective novel which is so different to modern mysteries.The Golden Age:Certain conventions and clichés were established that limited any surprises on the part of the reader to the details of the plot and, primarily, to the identity of the murderer.
The mysteries by J.S. Fletcher are a little uneven--some I have really enjoyed and others not so much.
What Fletcher had happen pretty much had to be what happened, but it was as if he had a deadline with his publisher and only an hour to write the whole ending, so he did it as briefly as possible.
We follow the "bad guy" who is looking for his chance to make it big.
Not a bad story, but don't expect the ending to be as well done as the rest.
This is a crime story, not a crime mystery: At every stage, the reader is told what happens.
And what happens is that the plans of the scheming crook who is the lead character of the story, slowly unravel, until he literally sees no way out.
The feeling of inevitability that Fletcher seems to convey in this, is not very realistic, but it is convincing.
The pace of this book is slow at first, but rich, with a lot of detail.
That feels a bit sloppy.
And some of the characters are very superficially sketched.
It remains an entertaining story, perhaps a bit moralistic and simplistic.
In TM Fletcher kills off the only interesting, if morally ambiguous, character. The one I was hoping would not die. BTW Fletcher does the same in The Paradise Mystery, with its brutal ending. It's more striking in TM because the rest of the cast is bland, except for the morally corrupt mother, who's really more of a caricature of mindless greed. A decent read.
I just saw my review of "Middle Temple Murder" by the same author, which read exactly the same as the one I feel like writing about this one... This is a very good mystery that moves quite fast. Only, the end seems rushed, with things being tied up a bit too neatly.Nevertheless, I enjoyed it a lot.
The first of Fletcher's mysteries I read. Not the best of the early mystery writers, it's still fun. The mystery is a bit thin, but the characters are interesting with both a police detective and a gentleman forced by the circumstances in the plot to act as an amateur detective. (Scotland)
1920s mystery about a missing will
Give this one a pass. It does not age well.
Excellent murder mystery from 1920. The action moved right along.
