https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8533.Slay_Ride
When a British jockey named Richard Sherman disappears from a racecourse in Norway, he leaves behind a pregnant wife and a huge mystery.
Norwegian investigators have drawn a blank; neither Sherman nor the money have surfaced and there's no record of him leaving the country.
Cleveland pairs up with a Norwegian investigator named Arne Kristiansen, who tells David that he hopes the Englishman can pull the proverbial rabbit out of the hat.Almost as soon as Cleveland arrives in Norway, however, it becomes very clear that someone doesn't want him poking around, and the deeper he digs, the more dangerous things become.
As I think about all of his books (yes, this review covers all of his books, and yes I've read them all) I think about a moral ethical hero, steeped in intelligence and goodness embroiled in evil machinations within British horse racing society - either directly or indirectly.
The heroes aren't always horse jockies, they can be film producers, or involve heroes engaged in peripheral professions that somehow always touch the horse racing world.But more than that, Francis's heroes are rational human beings.
The hero's thoughts reveal a vulnerability that is touching, while his actions are always based on doing the right thing to achieve justice.
Another classic Dick Francis, set in Norway, with a Jockey Club investigator following up the disappearance of a British jockey. A fast-paced narrative leading to a violent ending.
Early Francis and his style hadn't settled down yet: the women are even more marginal than usual, the reason to keep reading is thin, and the reveal was barely suspenseful at all.
I thought I'd read all of his books but don't remember this one, which is great, because I don't remember how it will end.Here's a quote that shows one reason--maybe the number 1 reason--why I love Dick Frances's writing:"Upon opening the passenger-side door I found that most of the interior was already occupied by a very large Great Dane.
No one, the police concluded, would kill themselves in the middle of one of his books.I wonder by PBS or someone like that doesn't turn all his novels into a murder mystery series.
Perhaps I have outgrown Francis. It is also possible that Slay Ride does not rank amongst his best. I was somewhat underwhelmed. All the usual ingredients were sprinkled in with practiced competence, the devious plot uncovered by a stubborn and shrewd protagonist, efficiently brutal violence -unglorified, but subtly gratuitous, a suitably unconventional erotic/romantic filament threaded through the narrative and a worthy adversary. But while there are sparks, the book never quite takes off. There are worse books out there, Francis at his worst is still a skillful story-teller, but there are better ways to spend a Sunday afternoon.
Good old Dick Francis novel. Exactly what I expected - fun, mysterious, thrilling. I didn't expect the Norwegian setting or the difficulty I'd have at first with the foreign names, etc. After a while, I got used to it, but it did take a little of the fun out of it. I'd would've also preferred a little bit longer wrap-up at the end. All in all, an enjoyable and quick read - just like I wanted right now.
Good read, some violence, but quite decent over all. Requires more from the reader than a mindless, summer read, but an excellent, by-the-fire on-a-long-winter-evening mystery read. I actually read two of his books this weekend and will probably read more as time goes by. Not really enriching in any way, but sometimes you've just got to take a break-Dick Francis provides a good break and another world with its own issues (not yours!!) to move into for a while.
Classic Dick Francis. This time we travel to Norway. I'm cold just reading this book.We get a great Francis "everyman" in David Cleveland. Jockey Club investigator and all-around smart, nice guy. He gets in danger (as you would expect), barely escapes with his life (naturally) and saves the day. Plus, this book is as old as I am, and it is still a fun read. One of my favorite authors of all time.
A fun, quick read that combined horse racing, corporate espionage and the disappearance of a horse jockey into a fast-paced read. For some reason, Slay Ride was different from the other Dick Francis novels I've read, it felt a bit more cynical and bleak. I found all the characters interesting (especially obsessive, paranoid Arne), the plot entertaining and the conclusion to be satisfying.
Dick Francis is one of the few prolific mystery writers whose books are primarily stand-alones. Although all his settings involve horses and/or racing in some way, there is an incredible variety to his work so it doesn't get stale. In Slay Ride, the main character is investigating the disappearance of an English jockey in Oslo.
Interesting to have primary setting in Norway. Twist in the motive/plot. Creative detective deduction; looking at situation backwards as well as what is not known. As with all Dick Francis books I have read thus far, well written and engaging. The biggest problem with my reading his books is that I stay up too late on work nights reading.
This is one of the better Dick Francis books that I've read.
But somehow he managed to make me like the main character, David Cleveland, before it knew it.
Although the vast majority, if not all, of Dick Francis books involve some facet of horse racing, the main characters themselves are not always jockeys but have different professions revolving around that world.
In this entry, Cleveland is an investigator for the British Jockey Club and the story takes place primarily in Norway.
It’s a well-plotted story and as in most Francis Cleveland is not discouraged by threats or the dangers of his pursuit of the truth.
A Jockey Club investigator is sent to Norway to determine where a jockey went - with the day's take from a racecourse.
Maybe because the book was just that meaningful?Whatever the case, this one fell a little bit flat this time around.
in the 60s???) though I think the investigation was fairly solid and the pieces still came together nicely in the end.
This is still as solid book, even after so much time.
I'm glad I went back and re-read it.
This is an early Dick Francis novel, and you can sense the development of the characteristics future books will showcase - an intelligent, witty protagonist with a hint of vulnerability who solves the challenge using not just the clues but his emotional reactions as well. The ending wrapped up a bit quickly for me, as I was hoping to see how the reactions of the other characters played out. Still, you have to love these stories and the intricate plots.
British Jockey Club investigator David Cleveland is sent Norway to discover the truth about the disappearance of champion British jockey, Robert Sherman.
The Norwegian Jockey Club has asked its British counterpart for assistance and, while most believe that the missing jockey has stolen money and fled, Cleveland is not so sure.
There is a lot more involved than just missing money and horse racing.This story was originally published in the early 1970’s.
There are some interesting differences between this world and today but the story has interesting characters, a good plot, a unique setting (Northern European horse racing scene) and good pacing that makes it an engaging read.
I buy all Dick Francis books I find in thrift stores (because my book habit is healthier than a drug habit, but can be just as expensive if I spend time in Borders), but I didn't quite expect what I got with Slay Ride.
First, it's one of his oldest works (1973), and there are a couple of dating elements in the plot that make the story feel a little old.
The characters aren't up to the Dick Francis standard, either.
They feel undeveloped, and the most vivid ones - the women - are ancillary to the plot, so they don't appear very often.
An investigator for England's Jockey Club brings the venue of this suspense novel to Norway.Racing related thrillers - David Cleveland - an investigator for the Jockey Club - is sitting in a dinghy in a pleasant little fjord in Norway.
But when the dinghy is hit by a speedboat and Cleveland almost drowns, he realizes that there is more to this case than some missing money - especially when a dead body turns up.
A sensible man would leave it to the police and go back home to England.
Except, it turns out, that England isn't safe either.
I started reading Dick Francis after a chance encounter with an abridged version of Bolt which I found in an old Reader's Digest tome.
I loved the male protagonist, Kit, in that story and figured that I should give more of Francis' books a try.Slay Ride takes place in Norway and is about a missing English jockey who stole a large amount of money from a Norwegian racing club.
Though it took a while for me to get into the story, it turned out to be a fairly quick read.
I liked the protagonist, not as much as the one in Bolt, but well enough.

David Cleveland, Jockey Club investigator, has come over to find an English jockey who has disappeared with a day's racing entry fees.
But he finds more than a jockey - he finds serious trouble, with several attempts being made on his life.
People are not what they seem to be, and the motives are very confusing...Strange that this book is 36 years old - it still reads fresh.
Four stars, as the ending, I feel is not quite up to the rest of the story.Yes, this is a thriller/detective story set in the horse-racing world, but it is also a very intelligent book
Vintage Dick Francis.
I thought I'd read them all, but I found this one at a recent University of Chicago Library book-sale.
Okay, $1 may have been a lot to pay for this 1973 un-classic, but do you know how rare it is for me to find a Dick Francis book I haven't read!?
It was really good too.
I read his latest recently and was deeply disappointed.
I fear he may have lost his edge.
So it was nice to go back to his better years.
Great bus reading!
David Cleveland, investigator with the British Jockey Club is summoned to Oslo Norway to look into the disappearance of jockey Bob Sherman.
It seems several bags of money are missing as well, with all fingers pointing at Bob as the thief.
Bob's dead body is located and then the search is on to figure out who killed Bob and why.
To complicate matters, someone clearly doesn't want David investigating and seeks to have him dead as well.
Re-read in 2012.
Had a hard time following this one and keeping names straight.
Didn't enjoy it as much as the others I've read.
I like reading these brief book reviews.
I'd like to know if anyone is actually reading them.
I have few friends, so I'm counting on you, friends.
This Dick Francis book was just like the rest of them: easily read and centered around horse racing.
This one was set in Norway.
Dad gave me a bunch of Dick Francis books, and the pile is dwindling.
I have finished all of them so far, so I can recommend these fiction books.
I won't buy any more though, after I finish the pile.
I'd like to read some other books to, ya know.
I enjoyed this one but not his best--the ending was kind of flat. Needed an epilogue. 3.75 stars. Plot: investigation into the disappearance of a Jockey in Oslo. Lots of great Norweigan characters and description of the country. Liked the Great Dane, Odin. Main character super likable as usual, not a rider but Investigator for the Jockey Club.
A decent Francis book. The villain was medium-sized--not a raving psychopath, but not a run-of-the-mill John Q. Citizen either. A fair number of harrowing experiences for the hero, and a few alluring and possibly off-limits women . . . all in all, a pretty solid entry. Oh, and it takes place largely in Norway, which is a fun change from Francis' usual setting.
Similar to Flying Finish, I find the ending is unsatisfying. It ends too abruptly and you don't feel that outstanding subplots were wrapped up.The bulk of the story is fantastic, the characters are well developed and I love Norway, so the setting is perfect.
my favorite vacation read author
Good yarn. Nice suspense.
Pretty standard fare for a Francis mystery novel, though the ending is very chilling. An enjoyable read because I enjoy Francis, but even though all the pieces are there it didn't take off for me.
