https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/145800.Calamity_Town
Ellery often joins his father'cases.
His books are noted for a major twist or surprise ending.CALAMITY Town is set in 1940 just as American is emerging from the depression.
Ellery is looking for a town to learn about American habits for his next book.
Ellery rents and becomes friend with the first family, Wrights.
The father is the prominent banker, the Mother is leading socialite, the three daughters are Lola, the town's scandal, Nora the town's recluse and Patricia, the town's beauty.
Did Jim, More's husband try to poison her New Years Eve?
The ending will surprise you.This book is written in a completely different format and might be hard to understand.

Writer Ellery Queen arrives in the small town of Wrightsville to find that all the accommodations are filled and he ends up going to local realtor to find a rental property.
The house was built for the middle of their three daughters who was to be married only to have the groom disappear on the wedding day.
Despite the reputation of the house Ellery “Smith” as he is calling himself agrees to rent with the understanding that if the daughter Nora’s intended should show up he would vacate.Well he has to leave but the Wrights offer him the use of the third floor of the main house which he accepts.
I picked this one up at the Salvation Army Store because I needed something to read.
I had not read in Ellery Queen in years, though I think I had read almost all of them in the early 70's when I got hooked on the old paperbacks I would find in used book stores.I had forgotten what good writers the two cousins who actually wrote the Queen novels were.
This was like sitting through a 1940's black and white movie.
There is no way someone writing today could authenticate the feeling of the 40's story.I truly enjoyed returning to the days when Ellery Queen was solving mysteries and writing books, all the while smoking cigarette after cigarette!
Personagens fantásticas, bem estruturadas e apaixonantes. Uma história que nos transporta para outro mundo, onde um final surpreendente aguarda o leitor. Contudo, não posso deixar de notar a facilidade como que se pode perder na história pelo grande desfile de personagens e, até mesmo, pelo estilo de escrita. Resumidamente: um bom mistério clássico
What a fantastic book this is…with a magnificent plot colored with an eloquent vocabulary, and a delightful host of characters, specially Ellery Queen, the intellectual writer used to intricate murder mystery solving, that will get you hooked until right the very end. No wonder it figures in H.R.F. Keating’s 100 “Crime and Mystery: the 100 Best Books”. Absolutely recommended!
Ten different authors so far!HOOK=2 stars: Ellery Queen takes a writing vacation in the country: the introduction to the central plot is a while in coming.
Crime/mysteries usually fall into the 70K to 120K range, so this is an odd one for this genre (but it pays off, see below).PACE=2: Queen kicks this one into gear only at the half-way mark.PLOT=4: Oddly, this one starts off as sort of a 'haunted house' novel, a "Calamity House" which Queen rents for six months to write a novel (this one).
This ain't Nazzee Goimany."PLACE=4: Queen beautifully describes "the color of America, [the town of] Wrightsville.
"Une souris est un miracle suffisant pour ébranler des myriades d’incroyants.. "Bonne enquête policière, ça se lit d’une traite !
I've been reading mystery stories for many decades, but not many from Ellery Queen.He is quite a change from the Dashiel Hammett/Raymond Chandler/Ross Macdonald tradition.
The central character of the detective, also named Ellery Queen, is not so dominant as in Chandler or Macdonald, but is stronger in this Ellery Queen story than others I've read.
John Wright has three daughters, Lola, Nora, and Pat. Other characters:Jim Haight, who almost married Nora three years earlier.
It was an interesting change of pace from most mystery stories that I have read.
I hadn't read a book by Ellery Queen since ages, so since this title come up twice in the same day from different sources I decided to give it a try.
I cannot say I am disappointed, but I guessed almost immediately what was going on and so it spoiled for me the rest of the novel.
It usually never happens....Era da tempo che non leggevo un giallo di Ellery Queen, quindi quando questo titolo é emerso da fonti differenti due volte nello stesso giorno ho pensato che fosse un segno del destino e l'ho preso.
No inicio, este livro começou a puxar muito por mim - o conhecer das personagens, conhecer o local onde toda a história começa e, finalmente, o início da trama em si com o surgimento das dúvidas e afins.
Enquanto lia, ficava desorientada sobre quem seria a personagem de proferir as palavras, ou em que situação específica estava a acontecer o momento relatado.
A história é boa, e o facto de não existirem pistas sobre como o crime aconteceu foi o que mais me prendeu na história e quer lê-la até ao fim.
Três estrelas por esta boa história.
The first Ellery Queen book I have read in several years, it reminded me of why I don't like Queen but do like Dorothy Sayers, Josephine Tey and P.
How could Queen know this?Location 1035, how does Queen know which is the real Rosemary Haight signature?Location 1134 Jim Haight is obviously talking about his real, original wife, not Nora.
Even the dullest reader must have figured out by now that Jim Haight was already married when he married Nora.The Ellery Queen mysteries is one of the few book series which is generally not as good as the television programs and movies based upon the books and character.
I enjoyed this book for Queen's depiction of small town 1940's America. On one level, an amusing satire of provincial life but on another, a disturbing look at mob mentality in s small town. The mystery however, was not really up to some of the more intricate and puzzling cases Ellery Queen solved. In fact, it seemed pretty obvious from early on what the solution was. A good introduction to Queen and his Wrightsville books but not up to the classic Ten Days Wonder.
Enjoyable, aside from too many hysterical young women - this was published in 1942, written by authors born in 1905, but surely they could've done better with characterization? Still, it did produce that "darn it, I should have figured that out" feeling, so it's successful on that score. I was half right, anyway!
Di questo giallo, dopo poche decine di pagine, compresi chi era l'assassino giacché conoscevo a menadito le tecniche di deduzione tipiche di Ellery Queen ( non per niente ero un appassionato lettore dei suoi libri) e non volli continuarne la lettura...
It was alright. I'd figured out most of the "twists" involved. It was my first Ellery Queen book, and I was just surprised at how much he was willing to keep from authorities. He didn't seem to have the same commitment I've come to expect from my detectives.
I've "always" known about Ellery Queen, but never read him. This book was originally published in 1940 and I got it for free via Early Bird Books. Thoroughly enjoyed piecing the clues together--classic cozy for readers of the genre, which I sometimes am. I'm sold and will read more.
Takova sranda detektivka :-)
Even though I knew by page 70 most op the solution, this book has a lot of small town America charm, which was a delight to read.
Unimpressive
Might be my favorite Queen so far
Clearly one of the best Ellery Queen novels in my humble opinion. Set outside his normal stomping grounds with no back up from his father the Inspector.
While one important point of the mystery was not quite credible, the rest of the story was interesting and, if not riveting, was still a good read.
Great Ellery Queen mystery that keeps you guessing until very near the end. I suspected the killer but the motivations were hinted at but tough til the very end.
Um história interessante de ler embora a tradução para português não esteja no seu melhor. Poderiam ser dadas algumas pistas para que o leitor pudesse tentar adivinhar os culpados mas é impossível de o conseguir descobrir ou desconfiar antes da revelação no final do livro.
Opinião: https://diicadeleitura.blogspot.com/2...
- Ellery Queen ti da sempre tutti gli indizi per risolvere il caso prima della fine del libro, non bara mai, è una sfida alla tua intelligenza.- Non so quante volte gli avevo sentito ripetere queste frasi parlando con i miei zii!
Volevo provare la mia intelligenza e cimentarmi nella sfida al lettore e scoprire il colpevole prima della fine.
Purtroppo prima della fine, appunto, mia madre mi scoprì e mi portò via il libro!
Ci sono voluti degli anni prima che mi fosse permesso di leggerlo e verificare la mia teoria e scoprire con orgoglio che l’avevo azzeccata in pieno!
E dire che non era delle più semplici!
Going back to Ellery Queen, I see that he (they) uses stock characters for the most part (when anyone's ethnic, it's even worse); that the books--even the ones from the 60s--have a 40s schoolboy idea of romance; and that even the better novels(like this one) are contrived and put puzzle ahead of people.
But I still enjoy him--even the third time through, when I know exactly who did it: I savor the puzzle (the weirdest ones you will ever find), the brisk pacing, and the Air of Mystery.
I always love Ellery Queen, in spite of the over-the-top convoluted bizarreness of most of their solutions.
I think Jim Hutton's absent-minded, golden-hearted Ellery in his funny little hat is the living end.And this one was another nice little story, with a love interest for Ellery thrown in there for good measure.
I did figure out the basic plot twist early on (pretty obvious by Ngaio Marsh's standards), and I was sorry to see Queen hand his love interest over to that gasbag, and---granted---in order for that solution to work the real culprit had to have been a good actor to the point of psychosis.But apparently Queen really, seriously liked Wrightsville, because now I'm reading The Murderer Was a Fox, and it turns out that one's set in Wrightsville, as well.
Il paese del maleficio è davvero un bel giallo anni Quaranta, perfetto per una trasposizione teatrale, data la ricchezza e il realismo dei dialoghi, e la freschezza e la vivacità dei personaggi.
La prima metà è in effetti di impostazione molto teatrale, la seconda più filmica.Finalmente un giallo che non ti spiattella il cadavere davanti agli occhi al primo capitolo.
Qui del cadavere, fino quasi a metà libro, non si sente parlare, e la lettura si ostina a scorrere piacevolmente nonostante questo.Geniale è l'inizio del Capitolo 15, che si apre sul giorno immediatamente seguente all'omicidio, mentre le implicazioni del finale sono assolutamente agghiaccianti.Consigliato se vi piacciono i gialli "vecchia maniera".
