https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1972075.History_of_the_Church
Vol 1.
The rise of the Church, establishments in Kirtland and Missouri.
The forcing of the Saints from Jackson County.Vol 2.
Camp of Zion, Efforts to regain possessions in Jackson County.
Removal from Clay County, establishment of the Kirtland Safety Society.
Some comments on slavery.I've only read the first two volumes so far, and am taking a break.
Talk about dry reading.
But it's been nice to have Smith portrayed in a way that his flaws are more evident then is typical among members of my religion.
Also, some great insights into some of the older doctrines that probably aren't presented well in Church discussions.
This was an educational read. Yes, some of it is dry and some of it is missing - It sent me researching several times, but I think the whole membership of the church should read these volumes. I am inspired by the faith and sacrifice of the saints, and warned that anyone can fall through greed and selfishness. We are also reminded that our actions can have ever reaching effects - either for good or evil.
The Doctrine & Covenants revelations are printed in full in this work, with narration in between that gives you the history behind each one.
In that way, it doubles as an excellent study guide.
However, the best part of the series is the footnotes, which are absolutely fantastic and new information to me (for example: Did you know an adulterated version of the Book of Mormon was nearly published in a newspaper prior to it's publication in book form?).
I recommend reading it with Susan Black's Who's Who in the Doctrine and Covenants close at hand, so you can get the life stories of those mentioned.
Totally different kind of history than I was expected.
Started off impersonal and by the time of his death Joseph Smith was one angry fed-up person.
Most of it was inconsequential.
It was a different take on history.
Some of the major events got barely a mention.
He plays it off like he didn't know anything but you had to be utterly obtuse and completely unobservant to not see what was happening.
It seems like the man has been telling himself the lies (to absolve himself of his role in the Prophet's death) so long he was actually believing it.
This is Joseph Smith's history, written under his dictation or approval, the way he saw events and their meaning. Skip the footnotes and it is an easy read. Bookstores are full of anti-Mormon literature. Surprisingly most is a regurgitation of the false charges against Joseph Smith which resulted in his murder. The prophet explains and refutes every charge.
I have been reading through this 7 volume set for a while now. I am now halfway through volume 5. Some of it is really inspiring, some of it interesting, and some of it somewhat boring. The best parts are collected in the "Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith" book. But I feel it's worth my time to read it, and I am learning a lot about Joseph Smith and the early history of the Church.
Finished Volume I on 5/31/2011.Finished Volume II on 6/28/2011.Finished Volume III on 7/26/2011.Finished Volume IV on 8/27/2011.Finished Volume V on 9/19/2011.Finished Volume VI on 1/23/2012.Finished Volume VII on 3/27/2012.
I might call this selective history---hard to know which sources were modified as the church progressed, in order to present it's best profile. Because it contains false information, it can't be a good resource in church history study.
I thoroughly enjoyed this volume. A lot of time is spent discussing the legal proceedings brought fraudulently against the Prophet by those persecuting the Church.
Chronicles the highs and lows of the early modern day saints. It's an eye opener make no mistake. Brother Brigham caps it off well in vol. 7
Have read parts as I have studied specific topics. Will read it all eventually.
Written to sell the LDS branch of Mormonism, thus not faithful to the source material.
I pick these volumes up from time to time. They are great if you read them along with the Joseph Smith lesson manual.
I have read parts of each volume of this set. I find that it is very boring, but does have some good information. I find it interesting that the church quit printing this set of books.
This history is fantastic.
