https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40961621-king-leopold-s-ghost
However, the avarice and deceit of King Leopold II of Belgium in the Congo (15 million dead) has been something of a revelation.
The book has been justly praised.
Also, it turns out the first great unmasker of Leopold was an American, George Washington Williams.
And certainly Casement's key contribution is recounted here, as is that of the great popularizer of the Congo cause, E.D. Morel, but Williams' audacious early warning was a surprise to me.
I hereby enter his name into my book of latter-day Cassandras, and suggest he be given greater emphasis in all relevant texts and courses.
”The Congo in Leopold’s mind was not the one of starving porters, raped hostages, emaciated rubber slaves, and severed hands. It was the empire of his dreams, with gigantic trees, exotic animals, and inhabitants grateful for his wise rule. Instead of going there, Leopold brought the Congo—that Congo, the theatrical production of his imagination—to himself.” King Leopold IIBelgium was simply not big enough for the future king. ”When he thought about the throne that would be his, he was openly exa
‘Petit pays, petits gens’ (small country, small people), he once said of Belgium.” He watched as countries like Holland, Great Britain, France, Portugal, Spain, Italy and Germany were colonizing Africa and other exotic isles and becoming rich off the plunder.
I’d always reserved the 1st tier for Adolf Hitler and Joseph Stalin, but after reading this book and hearing the estimated number 10 million associated with the deaths in the Congo, I have officially moved Leopold II to the 1st tier genocidal maniac.
Every bullet had to be accounted for with Leopold’s mercenaries, so if a man used a bullet to kill game, he had to have an African hand to account for that bullet.
It was an even worse trade than the Indians made for Manhattan.The territory included at least 200 different ethnic groups speaking more than 400 languages and dialects, ranging from “citizens of large, organizationally sophisticated kingdoms to the Pygmies of the Ituri rain forest, who lived in small bands with no chiefs and no formal structure of government.” Through intermediary companies which Leopold held at least half the shares, the men of the tribes were forced into labor as porters, food producers, and gatherers of ivory and, later, rubber.
There are a number of estimates given throughout of the extent of the extermination of people in the Congo under King Leopold – the author says perhaps 8-10 million people, but he also quotes someone who believes it might have been as many as 13 million people.
And that dark heart continues to beat in our chests.What makes this story particularly disgusting is that King Leopold of Belgium was, for far too long, praised as a philanthropist and anti-slave crusader while he was turning a nation into a killing field.
A couple of years ago London’s financial district offered an apology for the role it had played in the Slave Trade.
The Congo Free State was a handy microcosm of colonialism in its most extreme and polarised form: political control subsumed into corporate control, natural resources removed wholesale, local peoples dispossessed of their lands, their freedom, their lives.
This is not a problem one finds with David van Reybrouck's Congo: The Epic History of a People, where the treatment of the Free State is shorter but feels more balanced.
(Van Reybrouck, incidentally, regards Hochschild's account as ‘very black and white’ and refers ambiguously to its ‘talent for generating dismay’.)For all these problems, though, this is a book that succeeds brilliantly in its objective, which was to raise awareness of a period that was not being much discussed.
The best historical novel I've ever read. The hyphenated title on the book is a story of greed, terror and heroism in colonial Africa and that sums it up very well. Such horrific treatment including brutal maiming and killing of workers, including children, who refused to work for King Leopold's rubber plantations is a story untold for centuries and deserves this fine treatment by Adam Hochschild. King Leopold of Belgium was an unrepentant monster.
Conrad is an interesting character, an immigrant to the UK, he vehemently opposed Belgian colonialism and its dark evils of murderous exploitative genocide.
But Conrad was in love and had such faith in British colonialism and its positive impacts on the world that he was blinded to its dark crimes and exploitative aspects.
And I have no doubt I do so on various issues.Hochschild also gives a great overview and insights into Conrad's book Heart of Darkness, which was based on Conrad's own time in the Congo.
The Belgians, even long after leaving behind colonialism in the Congo, continued to hide and bury the history of what they had done.
Horrifying story, rivetingly told. Regrettably, much of my reading of history has been centered primarily on the history of Europe and of the U.S. Hochschild's account of Belgium's exploitation of the Congo left me appalled. Despite the accounts of some truly savage atrocities, I ended up reading it in a couple of marathon sittings. A disturbing book, but one so well-written, I highly recommend it.
A stunning and fearsome book, bristling with focused rage at one of the great ignored evils of the 19th century. This is not merely a catalog of horror, but also a history of the precursor to the modern human-rights movement, revealing the sacrifices and valiant efforts of those who refused to let the atrocities continue.Highly recommended - for those who want to see humanity at its most evil and also at its highest peak.
The cost of maintaining the expeditions and building infrastructure to get the immense natural resource wealth out of the Congo soon depleted most of Leopold’s fortune, so he managed to obtain a loan from the Belgian parliament at the same time obtaining permission to become the sovereign of another country while King of Belgium.
The rape of the Congo assumed, in Hochschild’s words, “a death toll of Holocaust dimensions.” Despite Leopold’s use of anti-slavery rhetoric to gain acceptance for his strategies, the people of the region suffered horrible enslavement.
A compelling history of the impact of the West on the Congo
This diplomat-turned-historian, Jules Marchal, spent decades after his retirement from civil service investigating and documenting King Leopold’s personal fiefdom in the Congo and its long list of crimes there at the beginning of the Twentieth Century.
Edmund Dene Morel, the shipping clerk who recognized in the 1890’s what was happening in the Congo, immediately called out the injustices he saw there and never hesitated in his mission to publicize it in the years that followed.
What I liked most about the book was the way Hochschild brought us past the period of the Congo revelations to the present day, telling us how we could have been ignorant of the time and the period.
I wouldn't have before reading this book, yet a man thousands of miles from a land he never visited is charged with instituting policies responsible for 10 million deaths in the course of a couple of decades, sparking the "first great international human rights movement of twentieth century." Hochschild tells us in the introduction that the book "is the story of that movement, of the savage crime that was its target, of the long period of exploration and conquest that preceded it and of the way the world has forgotten one of the great mass killings of recent history." The first third of the book sets out the background--the explorations of the brutal Henry Morton Stanley of "Stanley and Livingston" fame, and the machinations of Leopold to gain a colony.
This book took me several months to read because it was so disturbing.
After reading a chapter and having nightmares, I'd put it away for something else, and then return to it once I'd finished with the other book.The atrocities committed in the Belgian Congo were nothing short of diabolical.
And yet, shockingly, one of the worst genocides of the twentieth century remains relatively unheard of.I am a big fan of Adam Hochschild; he makes you feel like you're reading a novel rather than a historical non-fiction book, without sacrificing thoroughness or detail.
It's extremely enlightening, and I recommend it really strongly.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's BooksThe shelving, status updates and star rating constitute how I felt about this book. (hide spoiler)]

This encounter was a bit of a light bulb momment for me: reading is not just about a book or what you learn from it, it's about how it opens your world to people...The other point of interest came on the last page of the book.
For those of you who have read "Infidel", our discussion of that book included the realization that a culture/religion where women are abused, unloved & disrespected cannot thrive.This book deserves to be read, though horrifying at times the tenacity of those advocating anti-slavery for Africa & the world came through as a light in darkness.
A very troubling look at the Belgian involvement in the Congo -- a chapter in the European 'Scramble for Africa' -- that I had not known much about.
Leopold, in particular, comes out looking very bad.
In other words, the author is trying to appeal to the pathos in the reader, where more detachment would have made for a duller but stronger book.
In other words, it is a good book, but the author was concerned about sales..., as well as about the truth.
However the calculating Leopold methodically began exploiting the Congo for ivory and slaves.
D. Morel, a British employee of the shipping company King Leopold used to ship goods to and from the Congo.
This was due to: Countless murders, massacres, brutal floggings, torture and harsh imprisonment; exhaustion and exposure from forced labor; starvation from the burning of villages, the stealing and destroying of food supplies; European diseases like smallpox to which the Congolese had no immunity; and a large drop in the birth rate since people put off raising children in such circumstances.Africans in adjacent states in equatorial Africa suffered similar fates driven by the rubber trade.
In 1960 due to popular uprisings the Belgian government was finally forced to grant the Congo independence.
Again and again it felt unfair to me that we know so much about the character and daily life of Leopold and so little about those of Congolese indigenous rulers at the time, and even less about the lives of villagers who died gathering rubber.
Or that so much is on the record about Stanley and so little about those who were perhaps his nearest African counterparts: the coastal merchants already leading caravans of porters with trading goods into the interior when he first began staking out the Congo for Leopold.
In the words of Roger Casement "Infamous. Infamous, shameful system."

Vraiment, on a beaucoup du mal à croire la moitié des choses racontées par Hochschild.Ce que l'on conteste le plus chez Hochschild est son estimé que la déclin de la population au Congo par le régime de Roi Léopold a été de 8 à 10 millions.
L'estimé de 3 millions de Sir Roger Casement parait beaucoup plus raisonable.Le cas de Hochschild est beaucoup plus solide quand il rapproache au regime du Roi Léopold de servir méthodes très sadiques au Cibgi .
Adam Hochschild's excellent King Leopold's Ghost: A Story of Greed, Terror and Heroism in Colonial Africa tells how the Belgian king desperately tried to find a large expanse of land that he could personally exploit so that he could afford to build lavish palaces and woo women young enough to be his granddaughters.
Stanley (of "Dr. Livingston, I presume" fame) to set up a colony and his own not unappreciable PR skills to buffalo the other European powers, Leopold succeeded for several decades until Evangelical missionaries and such powerful speakers and writers as Roger Casement and Edward Morel led a resistance that forced Leopold to divest himself of his personal African playground.
Excellent book, written in an engaging way.
Eye opening doesn't begin to cover it and it has very specific lessons about governing and government that are firmly in place to day (analogous).
Leopold was a monster in a world full of monsters.
It couldn't have been easy to research and put this together as King Leopold burned most of the documentation of his wealth and atrocities.
Amazing job.5 star bookEdited to Add: Here is an example of what I mean when I say that it has very specific lessons about governing.
This book was written in 1999.
Leopold's Congo is but one of those silences of history.”
A profoundly disturbing account of one of the modern era's forgotten atrocities. The book is written with great empathy yet manages to eschew pity or melodrama, a balance that highlights the horrific, tragic tale of King Leopold's colonization and rape of the Congo. An unnerving reminder of man's inhumanity to man, and how the 20th century was built upon the corpses of tens of millions of African natives.
It's gratifying to get the chance to read a book as powerful and influential as this.
An estimated ten million Congolese died during that time.It's even more gratifying to find that Hochschild's book is well-written, too; it's fast, gripping and clearly laid out.
And more importantly, it suffers from a paucity of stories from the Congolese themselves, a fact Hochschild is quite unhappily aware of.
What bits exist are reproduced here, but it's not enough.It's a tragic reminder of how easy it is to squelch the testimony of an entire people, particularly a pre-literate one.
A colonial morality play.
The story in "King Leopold's Ghost" is a powerful one -- colonization taken to its extreme -- but the book is rendered mediocre by the author's trite moralizing, lack of historical rigor, and tiresome reliance on depicting every actor with either a halo or horns.
Leopold, here an antagonist of extraordinary guile, is only weakly connected to the governmental and business interests with which he worked; the reader is given pages of anecdote concerning the king's depravity with nearly no overview of the system in which he operated.
Made me want to catch the next flight to Brussels to go burn down some palaces.
This book will make you burn with rage at not just the terrible injustice and brutality of Leopold and his cronies, but also at how despite the heroic efforts of two men to shine a light on this awful genocide (bigger than Aushwitz), once Leopold had relenquished his little African playground, the whole saga just got swept under the carpet.
But also an incredible portrayal of heroism on the part of an insignificant shipping clerk and a gay Irishmen with a social conscience.
For all the evil perpetrated by the 'A-List A-holes of the 20th Century', none of them outdid King Leopold II.Between 1885 and 1908, under King Leopold II's rule, an estimated 10 to 13 Million human beings were killed in the African Congo.
The unrelenting crimes against humanity perpetrated in the Congo are beyond horrific.And it all seems to have been erased from our collective history.
Case in point: Joseph Conrad's Heart of Darkness was inspired by and based upon the atrocities in the Congo under King Leopold II's murderous reign.
