https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6468666-the-reckoning
June 2010- if derek and chloe do not get together in this book, i think i just might die. really.September 2012- I'm always so disappointed when I finish this series. Like, "But... what do you mean it's over? We were just getting into some major character development..." disappointed. I almost wish this series was turned into a tv show just because I like the characters so much.
The Darkest Powers’ world is constantly evolving and Armstrong doesn’t waste her time catching readers up to what they should already know, which I have to admit, is part of what I love about her writing.I devoured this book.
She can write and adult series, filled with some of the best steam I’ve read, and then turn around, write a book about supernatural teens, whose scenes together are so freaking sweet and endearing, that my stomach flips.
. .I mean don't get me wrong, I totally love all of the characters in these books.
I feel disgusted that I can like characters but not like the books as much as I thought I would.
I think this happened in another book I read lately, loving the characters but the other stuff didn't click.
I mean this book is right up my alley with ghosts and supernaturals and stuff.
Sigh...I'm so glad that there are many that love this trilogy because that's what it's all about, finding what's right for you.
I wish I had a time machine....
I'm not going to spoil the story for you but there are plenty of good bits, in fact I noted down my favourite pages to do with Chloe and Derek: 125, 225, 242, 292, 371-2 and 390.
Derek calling Chloe on her mistakes and challenging her to do better, and her accepting her own faults was very grown up, most adults have trouble with this.One of my favourite quotes from page 291-2:"When I got mad about you leaving," he said, "it wasn't because I thought it was stupid or I don't think you'd be careful.""You were just worrying about me."An exhale, relieved that I understood.
So glad someone restored my faith in believing there could still be good books in the world.
You did great.I can't express with words how superb this book (and series) was.
Everything about this book appealed to me.
I cheered for Derek right from the start and I loved how Chloe had no clue (view spoiler)[she actually really likes him.
(hide spoiler)]I'm glad I stumbled upon this series.
Even though the characters' age was a little too young for my taste, I enjoyed the read anyway.
Loved loved loved the book.And I have a feeling that this wasn't the end.
That a few of these scenes did keep me near the edge of my seat is, unfortunately, the only positive thing I can bring myself to say about this utterly disappointing conclusion to the trilogy.My main criticism is that the author builds up a number of compelling issues in the previous two books which are left completely unresolved at the end of the third.Of all of these, the most disappointing for me deals with the character development, particularly the romance between Chloe and Derek.
The same applies to this final book in the Chloe Saunders trilogy.Most likely, if you enjoyed "The Summoning" and "The Awakening," I expect you will like "The Reckoning," because it's basically more of the same - the same running around scenarios with little story progression.
For us, fans of Armstrong's adult books, there is a nice surprise too - a tiny bridge to her "Women of the Otherworld" series.
The rest - well, the book is more entertaining than the 2nd in the trilogy, but ultimately it is not as satisfying as Armstrong's adult novels which all have definitive endings and completed story arcs.
Four stars.See, I enjoy these books while reading them, and its not until afterwards that I realize their faults.
This series could have been one book, because really, the plot of these books is pretty much running, hiding, moments of sexual tension, and the occasional revelation.
If you asked me to pick out one standout moment in this book, I couldn't tell ya.
I had a fun time reading it, and as far as YA paranormals go, it could have been worse.
And that goes for the entire series, not just for this particular book.
Derek and Chloe have such a connection! I really hope they do something about it in this book!!!!! Make out.... Do the Do... BUT DO SOMETHING!!!! lol
⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱*Should've been more*⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱ BEWARE OF SPOILERS FOR THE SERIES! This whole review can - probably - contain spoilers for the entire series. This review is mostly for me to remember the details.   Re-read: 04.05.2018 . I hate the ending. It's too open and we never really get the real answers. Overall, the treatment of Derek is at least even better in this book. I still don't like how immature the characters is. I barely see any development in the characters except Tori (a little), and Derek.
This whole review can - probably - contain spoilers for the entire series.
(hide spoiler)]↦ Andrew, an old friend of Simon's and Derek's dad, and a former employee of the Edison Group.
(hide spoiler)]↦ Diriel, the demi-demon who was soul-bound in The Edison Group's building by Samuel Lyle and knows all of their secrets↦ Samuel Lyle, was the original owner of Lyle House as well as the first to experiment on supernaturals.
“I absolutely think your worth it.”“But you don't think you are.”His mouth opened.
(hide spoiler)]Favorite character?
- Derek Souza.Would I read more by this author/or of series?
I cannot wait for this book. I just finished the first 2 and they were amazing!!!! I love Derek and Chloe...Sorry Simon. I also just got done reading the first 3 chapters of this one, it's gonna be GREAT!!!
Chloe and Derek's budding romance was such a refreshing change from the typical *gorgeous* teenagers in most other stories.
For a tough guy, he admits to wanting to have Chloe there with him while he changes -- seeing him at his worst -- and all the while, she is holding his hand or rubbing his shoulders offering encouragement.
It was hard to figure out (for them and us) who Chloe, Derek, Simon and Tori could trust and who was playing them.
first looking for Simon & Derek's father's trusted friend Andrew for help.
Derek finally makes the full change to a werewolf and back.
The last wonderful, paranormal, romantic book in the series (noooooo). Bargains are being made and people are fighting for their own choices. Family is reunited and torn apart, kisses occur, and people decide what side they're really on in the final book to the Darkest Powers trilogy. Thanks KA!
29/4/2017The last time that I read this, I gave it five stars.
I love seeing Chloe realise that her powers are way more badass than most necromancers.
I love seeing Derek struggle with transforming for the first time, with his feelings for Chloe, with SIMON'S feelings for Chloe, and with having to go up against adult werewolves who know what they're doing.
And it IS still my favourite book of the trilogy.
While I always finish the book wanting to know what happens to Rae, it's written in such a way that there's scope for another book/trilogy further down the track!
First let me begin by saying that this is one of my favroite series's that i've read.
I loved joining Chloe, Derek, Simon, Tori, Liz and sooo many others on their journey.
There are so many books out there where the heroine is tough and confidant and completly flawless, and....while they're usually awesome characters, it's hard to believe that anyone can be that perfect.
He too wasn't what i've come to expect of a lead in a book, but i loved him for that.
Their interacations were the highlight of the series for me.Chloe and Derek have got to be amongst my fave book couples ever.
OMG!
Can't wait for this to come out!!The nail-biting climax to Kelley Armstrong's bestselling YA series.
Chloe Saunders is fifteen and would love to be normal.
Unfortunately, that's not going to happen.
First of all, she happens to be a genetically engineered necromancer who can raise the dead without even trying.
She and her equally gifted (or should that be 'cursed'?) friends are on the run from the evil corporation who created them.
To top it all, Chloe is struggling with her feelings for Simon, a sweet-tempered sorcerer, and his brother Derek, a not so sweet-tempered werewolf.
And she has a horrible feeling she's leaning towards the werewolf.
Definitely not normal...
As a matter of fact: It. Was.
Truths.
Not-wanted truths.
Lots of trouble.All of this and more is poured into the pages of The Reckoning, soaking every page of it.
This book was a little bit more focused to the relationship between Chloe and Derek, but still keeping up with all the action.
Definitely the cherry on top.
Come on ladies, do not pretend you didn’t imagine Taylor as Derek for one second, ‘cause I did.
*drooling**clears throat and regains composure* Basically, this was the book.
Only thing I’m sad about is that it’s the END.
No. Matter.
What.…Seriously, the cherry on top.
I finally finished The Reckoning!
Again, I'm reminded of the memories of the time I enjoyed reading the Darkest Powers trilogy.
This one took me less time to read since I wasn't that busy so I flew through it.Even though I liked it, my main issue with this, and I'm sure it was for a lot of people, was that the majority of the book took place in one spot.
I won't go into full detail about the plot because it is the final book, but I'll say that it was a fun ride!
I'm so glad I decided to read the trilogy again!
It wasn’t a I’m-likely-to-reread-these-some-day series.
Not every single series can be earth-shattering.But here’s the thing: I’m a little let down.
Page one book one we start with Chloe, average fifteen-year-old necromancer.
Final page of book three we end with Chloe, average fifteen-year-old necromancer.
The only character who actually changes her original tune was Tori, and that’s only because she was practically insane and unlikable and that needed to change or they couldn’t use her.
Kind of like how Liz needed to be dead in order to help out at convenient times.
That’s what I’d like to know.
3.5-Really strong 'conclusion' to the series, because according to the author, "The Reckoning is the last book in the trilogy, not the last in the series.
Really liked the little shout out to Elena et al, I think an eventual meeting with the 'Bitten' pack is inevitable for Derek, and I look forward to seeing what she does with that.My one slight pet peeve is that characters seem to have a hard time finishing their sentences in this book, got very distracting at some points for me.
This is the best book in this YA series. I raced through it in a day.There was a bit more going on than in the previous books, but it was still fairly predictable.There were a couple of logic gaps to overlook. And the reason behind the changing color of Chloe’s pendant is never shared, despite it being raised multiple times. What was all that foreshadowing for? I’ve heard Kelley Armstrong’s adult books are better, so I might try one of those in the future.
There was little bit of everything - action and fight scenes, superpowers, friendship, romance and of course, some cool necromancer stuff.I especially liked Chloe's change through this series.
If he stared at me like I was crazy, then I'd know he wasn't a ghost.”And let's save a minute for the awesome side-character that was Tori.
Also I really like Derek's change of personality for the better through these books.“You were just worried about me." An exhale, relieved that I had understood.
You won't let us worry about you because you don't think you're worth it.
Cuando empecé a leer no podía parar , al principio me gustaba pero no me había fijado que era en el mismo mundo “ LAS MUJERES DE OTRO MUNDO” de la misma autora.
La trilogía la acabé en 3 libros y admito que el ultimo estuvo interesante pero me quedó debiendo con ese final y nunca me fijé que había intereses amorosos en los personajes.
Hubo misterios , personajes creibles , acción y un poco de romance al final ( al inicio que están sobreviendo no había lo cual estoy de acuerdo porque estamos corriendo por nuestra vida) Esta trilogía es un poco mas juvenil que la saga de otros mundos.
I devoured this book.Read it in one setting even and I was glad to see The Reckoning took us back to The Summoning eerie roots.
MY review for :->The Summoning(Book 1)->The Awakening(Book 2)The Reckoning, the third book in the Darkest Powers trilogy, starts off with intensity and ends triumphantly.
Chloe and Derek's budding romance was such a refreshing change from the typical "gorgeous" teenagers in most other stories.I think I fell in love with Derek right along with Chloe (not that they admit to "loving" each other (yet)...
Their romance is now just beginning at the end of this trilogy...
Can't wait because the last one leaves you hanging something terrible!!! If you haven't read the series, you must. It's good.
"You need your sleep.
It wasn't fear.
It hadn't been fear for a while.I wasn't horrified and disgusted.
What I saw wasn't some guy puking and grotesquely contorting.
I saw Derek, in unbelievable agony and scared out of his mind.
I recovered and grinned bad and went to throw my arms around his neck, then stopped, blushing.
I'll admit to you that yes, since I first read this books about 3 years ago I've had a crush on Derek.
He's been my number 1 book boyfriend and I love him.
<3"Fight," I whispered, and it was all I needed to say.
I loved this book (the whole series actually).
But I loved her and derek's relationship.
but I guess they just needed an out for the character without having her turn on the kids?
Idk. I really loved all the characters though, and the story was great.
I especially liked how Chloe was a great main female character, just the right mix of not being the damsel in distress cant do anything for herself, but not throwing herself in the line of danger all the time and thinking shes invincible and being the damsel in distress anyway.
Reseña en el blog: http://librosdelcielo.blogspot.com.es...Tal vez no sea uno de esos finales en los que ha acabado todo y ya viven felices para siempre pero ha sido un final y me ha gustado. La trilogía en general ha sido un vicio y ahora no sé que haré con mi vida...
Mijn god, dit einde...! Te gek, zo ontzettend spannend ;) Wat heb ik ontzettend van deze serie genoten! Kelley, bedankt voor alles!
