https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4660.The_158_Pound_Marriage
The 158-Pound Marriage is book three in my John Irving Challenge, in which I am attempting to read all of his novels in a year's time.
It's much better than Setting Free the Bears but not quite as good as The Water-Method Man. And, as I noted in my review of the former, I again see hints of the style that I enjoyed in the beginning of The World According to Garp, especially the story behind how Utchka (or Utch, if you prefer) got her name.
The Water-Method Man feels like a third book.
Caveman get lonely. Caveman get wife. Caveman get bored. Caveman wife-swap. Caveman get jealous. Caveman get lonely. Caveman get wife. Caveman get bored. Caveman wife-swap. Caveman get jealous... (I could go on).
relationships really aren't all about the sex. john irving kicked even more ass before he was widely read. read it.
It's John Irving. One cannot go wrong with John Irving.
A tale about the trials and tribulations of relationships that are fraught with infidelities, an area of expertise in the writing mind of John Irving, I was expecting a whole lot more from this book than I actually got.
I will do none of those things with The 158-Pound Marriage, but rather just go back and re-read Garp the next time I want to read about the sexual politics of couples as he told the same story in that book, and did a much better job with more fulfilling characters.
It's Edith and Severin in one corner, Utchka and the unnamed, unreliable narrator in the other.
The title of the book relates to wrestling, but the fighting image is close enough...anyway, Edith and the narrator have two things in common: they are both trying to be writers and they both met their spouses while traveling in Vienna.
In this case, I'd like to know who to slap, though I admit that by the end, I was pulling for him to make things right again with Utchka, the only one who seems to understand herself and who is understandably very hurt.
Das waren sehr mühsame 278 Seiten und ich habe ehrlich gesagt keine Lust noch mehr Zeit auf dieses unheimlich zähe, mir leider nichts sagende, Buch zu verschwenden.
After reading John Irving's A Son Of The Circus a few months ago and enjoying it (see my review: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...
I chose The 158-Pound Marriagebecause, unlike many of Irving's other works it was a slim volume ideal for carrying whilst commuting.The narrator is an academic who writes historical novels.
Severin, also born in Austria, teaches German and coaches wrestling at the same university as the narrator.
By mutual agreement Severin spends occasional nights sleeping with Utch, whilst Edith and the narrator sleep together.
Inevitably, things end badly, but I will not reveal any details.Compared to A Son Of The Circus, The 158-Pound Marriage is colourless and dull.
I love John Irving.
I really, really love him.
I was very curious to read this because it is one of his early novels and I was told it was bad and very mean spirited.
I think it is still better than most novels and only mildly mean spirited.
Irving often dances around being a mysoginist asshole and in this novel he just IS one...but I forgive him...because I a forgive him his sins.
If I were to meet John I would ask him why he is so into wrestling...I must say it baffles me but the more I read his books the more I want to watch a wrestling match.
I picked this book up because I heard that it was similar to the world according to garp (which I loved).
At first it was a bit unclear how this foursome started and Irving was a bit vague about that but once you get deeper into the story it starts to unfold and each of the four character story is told and you love some and hate the others.
Though there are four people in the foursome its told from the perspective of one of the husbands who isn't talking about himself but narrating the life of the other husband and how the three are living in his world.
As a fan of John Irvin, I was deeply disappointed in this book. I'm bitter due to past relationships, but not bitter enough to appreciate the resentment and anger that overshadowed the storyline.
I read this even though it didn't look that good because I have a three-month-old and no time or attention span for reading anything anymore but John Irving is always pretty quick-moving and this book looked short.
If I didn't already love John Irving I would have hated this book.
But, I do already love John Irving, and this book, written early in his career, had enough of the stuff he would later turn into those genius books that I adore, that I enjoyed it anyway.
its really intense and relationshippy.it turns out that i hated the ending too.
what happened somewhere along the way was that i stopped trusting the narrators (a historical fiction writer!) perceptions of how the other 3 people were feeling, and that put me off from his own feelings.
the story tumbled along like a heap of sludge ona slightly declining in elevation hill.
when it to the end all there was to see was a sludge reservoir.
there is a character utch who is portrayed as unrelentingly devotional.
i want to know what utch is feeling.
Partnertausch, um eine Ehekrise zu bewältigen? Was anfangs zu funktionieren scheint, entpuppt sich als fatale Fehleinschätzung: Scheinbar spielt nur einer nicht richtig mit, aber was in den anderen dreien vorgeht, weiß auch keiner genau.John Irving beschreibt dieses Liebesdrama großartig und menschlich, man kann sich in die Figuren hineinversetzen, man lebt und leidet mit. Auch wenn sein schräger Humor und sein Gespür für skurrile Szenen hier nicht ganz so ausgeprägt zu sein scheinen wie beispielsweise bei Hotel New Hampshire oder Garp, ist Eine Mittelgewichtsehe ein typischer Irving, fesselnd und hervorragend zu lesen.
I think that this is a book that some bored housewife would probably enjoy. For me, there was nothing interesting, it took too much time to built the main characters and the rest of it was just sex. I barely had the energy to finish the book.
An early Irving, shows great promise and is in no way bad, but compared to his later offerings this feels a bit rushed, impatient and crude. Kind of short also.
Irving always has a message to go along with his wry humor and it is quite evident in this one.
In this book, Irving tries real hard to make a very little look like a whole lot.
At a faculty get-together, they meet another couple: a Viennese German professor/wrestling coach named Severin, and his spoiled wife, Edith.
I'm not kidding.Irving rounds out his dismal and repetitive plot with various anecdotes, some time-flopping devices, and lots of clever (if not over-wrought) character development.
The book takes place at such a remove (not a surprise, since the narrator, like all the characters, has his sights turned mostly on himself) that there's no connection at all, not between the lovers, nor between the spouses, not even with the reader.
255 pages.
Donated to charity 2010 May.Professional Reviews"Irving looks cunningly beyond the eye-catching gyrations of the mating dance to the morning-after implications." --The Washington PostThe darker vision and sexual ambiguities of this erotic, ironic tale about a ménage a quatre in a New England university town foreshadow those of The World According to Garp; but this very trim and precise novel is a marked departure from the author's generally robust, boisterous style.
. The 158-Pound Marriage is as lean and concentrated as a mine shaft."--Terrence Des PresFrom the Trade Paperback edition.
When I've talked so much about how much I would prefer Irving if he didn't go on and on and on, you'd think I'd really dig this one.
It's the smallest Irving I've ever seen.
Yet, it somehow feels more bloated that his much larger novels.
It's necessary, but I wish he'd have woven it in more like in later books.
It is by no means bad, just not as much of the good parts of Irving I've come to expect.
Probably predictable given that I'm hitting one of his earlier novels later, but still.
Bottom line, probably one of my least favorite Irvings.
I really like most of John Irving's books but some of them for me, are just okay.
This one is well written as are all of his books, but the story fits in the "just okay" category for my taste anyway.
I kept thinking to myself, "Are these people really that clueless?" And I know there are people like these characters but I found it frustrating to read about them.I think this one is hugely a matter of taste and opinion as to whether the reader will enjoy it or not.
Irving always packs his stories with quirks and characters that make you squirm. There's always some maiming going on and plenty of oral sex with dire consequences........ There - made you squirm. I've loved him for reasons I can't quite describe - like a guilty pleasure or the train wreck you can't take your eyes off of. True, I absolutely loved A Prayer for Owen Meany - but didn't we all?And I might add this book to the "loved" category. It's a whopper of a moral tale and you get the pleasure of a rollicking Irving read.
Kind of boring. I like John Irving, but lately finding out he's hit or miss. A Prayer for Owen Meany is great, but books like this one and Widow for a Year stink.Couldn't get into any of the characters in this book and the story got old real quick. It's about two couples that swap wifes/husbands. It's predictable and no surprise ending really. Thankfully, it's only 250 pages. Avoid and read a Prayer for Owen Meany instead.
This is a compelling and startling book. Irving does a superb job of feeding you each character’s history in order to understand why this foursome even happens and for me, these character backgrounds were truly the meat of the book. Because you know so much about each member you can realize the tensions and trigger points exposed during their affairs together. The underlying theme is this: scorn, jealousy and rage disguised by carnal desire cannot stay hidden forever.
John Irving is my hands-down favorite author. I have read and re-read this one and while I enjoyed the book and Irving's tone that I know and love, it is not nearly as beloved to me as Garp, Cider House, Owen Meany and Hotel New Hampshire. If you love Irving, read it-- you'll like it-- but if you are just trying him out, this is not the one to begin with.
3.5. At first it was pretty weird in typical John Irving fashion but then it was pretty slow but enjoyable. J. Irving isn't afraid to tackle issues that most people are afraid to talk about in public and this book is one of those issues - the swap of partners. You can also view this as a satyre on modern relationships and family issues. A more mature reader material.
as always, john irving creates beautiful characters. each of the four main characters represent a different angle in an approach to life and it is easy to align your loyalties with one of them while still completely understanding the others. severin scares me a little because i think that's who i relate to the most.
This is my first Irving and I'm quite impressed. And this is not even considered to be one of his best works. I love the way he introduces the characters and the story. Complex charactrs and human relations, and some beautiful descriptions of love scenes I reread several times. I can't wait to read Owen Meany and Garb.
The book was alright. As usual, Irving's character descriptions drag on and on, and I failed to see the point of most of the backstories. That being said, it was an engaging read, I liked it, but it could have been half the length and still made the same impact.
Re-read in airports for my first plane trip in 9 years. Perfect size and story to keep me entertained at the gate!
