https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12875258-tell-the-wolves-i-m-home
She came in to replace another teacher who'd been transferred, and she liked to tell everyone in a really loud voice that (a) our school was a fucking dump and we should feel lucky to have her teaching there, and (b) your art is shit.
I liked candy gore.) The bookshelves were in the classroom where the hated teacher - let's call her Ms. S - was currently teaching a grade 10 class.Being the bad bitch that I was, I whipped open the door and strode straight in without knocking.
People were dying from this disease in the eighties, and in 2013, there are still people out there who are being taught to refuse people with HIV/AIDS help.
They connect through stories about Finn’s life, his art, and the depth of their love for Finn.I listened to Mozart’s Requiem while I was reading, its intensity, ebbs and flows so much like real life, and I understand why it was so meaningful to June and Finn.
Because I was thinking of my friend Mark, his passion for life that matched Finn’s, and the devastation I felt when he died, I couldn’t help but find the Requiem overlaid by one of Mark’s favorite songs, Guns in the Sky. Now that I’ve returned this book to the library, I’m feeling a little lonely and sad.
all she cared about in the world was her uncle, and the times they shared listening to the requiem and drinking tea and going to the cloisters and endlessly creating worlds around themselves to the exclusion of all else, including june's sister greta, with whom she used to be extremely close.
either the birds come back to you or they fly away.both of her parents are accountants, which means that during tax season, when the events of the novel take place, she and her sister are "tax orphans," taking care of themselves while her parents work long and exhausting hours and are not around to help her through her grief.when her father comes home one evening, tired and sick and worked to the bone: "well, why do you do it, then?"i meant it seriously.i really wondered why people were always doing what they didn't like doing.
Tell the Wolves I’m Home is an incredible debut novel, a coming of age story that is masterfully told.
Others will see this as a tale of poignant beauty, a coming of age tale, and story that hits home on the greatest things of life.
So too is this coming of age story about a young teenage girl named June.
The novel progresses through June telling us many stories about her and Finn, about her mother, and about her relationship with her older sister Greta.
~Tell the Wolves I'm Home I don't know how to write a review for this book.
I have no words, or I feel like I don't have enough, or know the right ones to use to capture the intensity and sweetness of Tell the Wolves I'm Home.
There is so much character in this story -- not just June, but her sister Greta, their beloved uncle Finn, and his beloved Toby.
Tell the Wolves I'm Home is not that book.
I'm going to end this review with a Hemingway quote that I would like to dedicate to June and Greta and Finn and Toby.
I really liked this book. It was a fairly quick read. I found the relationship between the 2 sisters very believeable and very much like my own relationship with my older sister when we were kids. I loved finding out more and more about uncle finn.I felt June was very mature for her age and a good head on her shoulders. Feel bad for her at parts too like admitting she was in love with her uncle.The mum was an unlikable, self centered bitch.
There's this trend of young-adult (themed) novels for them to be predicated on the concept of the child main character being this misunderstood wunderkind that thinks they are universally disliked when in fact they are loved by everyone.
The emotional journey the main character undertakes feels predictably on-rails.
I think if the book took comfort in a certain superficiality rather than tried to really get to the core of deep, dark emotions it would have been much better.
It's a decent story with good writing, not this fantastic, vital book.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/The year is 1987 and June has just lost the most important person in her life to AIDS.
I know I have chosen the road less taken, but I have to own up to the fact that I did not like this book.
Rather than letting June be devastated when her favorite person in the world dies (or making June’s character younger and experiencing “first love” with her uncle), instead we deal with a 14 year old and a type of love that pushes toward perversion rather than adoration.
Yet there’s no feeling of guilt to this – just the natural sadness of loss.Told through June’s eyes, a 14 year old misfit who thinks she’s “a complete and total waste of space” who achieves self-confidence through caring about others instead of dwelling on herself.
As a reminder I guess, of what pure love felt like– for a best friend, a brother, a lover…Not saying I’d want to go through it again, thought I’d DIE after that 1st guy dumped me.
Buddy Read with MurugeshThis is such a beautiful story, it touched my heart and also managed to break it into little pieces....It is about June, a 14 year old who loses her godfather who is also her uncle and maybe her first love to AIDS. This story is set in 1987 and during this time Aids was an unknown factor which people were very afraid of. This is one of the thoughts that June has before her uncle dies and she is spending some time with him knowing he isn't going to survive this. "Yeah, but
Buddy Read with MurugeshThis is such a beautiful story, it touched my heart and also managed to break it into little pieces....It is about June, a 14 year old who loses her godfather who is also her uncle and maybe her first love to AIDS.
It is about the complicated loving relation that June had with her Uncle Finn and about things that are lost in life that can never come back...
But then again this story is not only confined to them but also is about June and Greta, Finn and Dani, Dani and June....This made me think about my life-partner and what I will do if I ever lose him.
There are some books that you finish and think "thank goodness I'm a reader" or "thank goodness I got to read this one." Tell The Wolves I'm Home is one of those books, and easily the best book I've read in 2012.It's not like the story was a loud one.
But she offers some of the keenest and most honest observations I've ever read.I wasn't interested in drinking beer or vodka or smoking cigarettes or doing all the other things Greta thinks I can't even imagine.
June's mother hates him with passion, thinking that it was his fault that Finn died because of AIDS.
Finn was as calm as ever right up to the very last time I saw him.“Don’t you know?
: ____________________________________________There are four main characters in this story: June (the narrator), Greta (June's sister), Finn (their uncle and June's godfather) and Toby (Finn's lover).
Each one of them was very complex character, including Finn who died early in the story, but we find about him more in the memories of the people who loved him.
We find a lot about him from the stories Finn and June tell each other.
After his death, she is approached by Finn's "special friend" (boyfriend) and starts up a relationship without her parents' knowledge.Also, her parents are too busy with tax season, her sister, Greta, is a b!tch, and June had a romantic crush on her uncle.I should know better than to read lit fic.
I get he needs people and interaction, but it's also FRAKKIN' creepy to go around stalking FOURTEEN-year-olds and asking them to keep secrets from their parents.When the story isn't about June whining about how awful her life is or how her parents are always busy, we have ANGST, ANGST, and MOAR ANGST.
It's the most unhappy people who want to stay alive, because they think they haven't done everything they want to do.  My thoughts and reactions have always been mixed when it comes to books which take the reader on a reflective stroll. Fast-paced would never come to mind, nor would action-packed. Words like "slow" and "quiet" tend to fall more in line with these types of reads. All too often, I find myself wondering what I've gotten myself into when I pick up books such as these. Just about e
Just about every single time, I think I might not end up liking the book because the story tends to meander along by taking the scenic route instead of getting right to the point.
I didn't think I was going to be able to hang with an entire book of "memories" about a person who was no longer present.Thankfully, after a few memory recaps in order to set up the main character's mindset, the story decided to travel along and move forward from the past as much as possible.
It is a sad story and I know and confess that for years and years I avoided these kinds of things, I was looking for happy, shiny thoughts, not this, so it is funny then, that it has also brought back memories of the very best chapters of my life.I don’t even know where to begin.This book read me.It is strong and tender, quietly whispering, gently hovering; it tells you things you already knew, but needed to hear, out loud.
It is not my book, at all really, but my daughter’s and she will likely think I read it in the rain or snow, but those are just my tears.
My heart is shattered.Review to come.** Reread August 2013
Sure June makes some stupid decisions, and Toby is kind of strange, but they don't deserve to be given voices any less than Finn, the aforementioned uncle who is an artistic genius and all-around interesting, compassionate, perfect uncle, or Greta, June's sister who is a musical star and all-around clever, smart, typical older sister.
Even so, Greta especially provides some surprises late in the game and even the supporting characters (their parents, a boy from school interested in June) are pretty interesting and occasionally reveal surprising depth.Brunt also paints a decent portrait of New York in the mid-1980s in the middle of the AIDS epidemic.
Tell the Wolves I’m Home left me with hope and filled with a feeling of love for those close to me.Perhaps having grown up during the 1980s and remembering the scare of AIDS during that time period as well, brought the book much closer to my heart.
Tell the Wolves I’m Home dances around the themes of sibling relationships between adults (June’s mom and her uncle) and during the process of growing up (June’s relationship with her older sister Greta).
Tell the Wolves I’m Home opens the relationships up for the readers to see.
it is at this time that anything can go wrong, or somethings can happen that the kid learns how hard life is, and how one should face the hard times and bitter truths, and stay calm.
One of the thing that June came to accept after his death was that she was in love with her uncle.
But fate had other plans.this story explores the beautiful friendship between Junes and Toby, the depth of loneliness of Greta (June's elder sister), and June's mother's sadness on being left behind by the sibling whom she loved with all her heart.it just broke my heart how the author showed all these emotions.
She feels like she doesn’t belong to her time and imagines she’s in the middle ages, she wears medieval boots given to her by her uncle Finn.
But she’s as mean as a snake to June and takes every opportunity to hurt her sister she can get.Toby is Finn’s boyfriend of nine years who has been hidden away from the sisters by their mother (Finn’s sister) and father because they don’t know him, and don’t wish to get to know him.
I grew up the odd middle child with a popular, smart older sister who was (and is) as mean as a snake.
This review has been revised and can now be found at Expendable Mudge Muses Aloud.
If so, then you will understand how 14 year old June Elbus feels about her Uncle Finn, in this wonderful and charming book by Carol Rifka Brunt.There are so many layers to this story and each layer contains within it some very important lessons and truths about life.
June realizes that Toby is also dying of AIDS and makes up her mind to take care of Toby until the end.This very moving story takes place in 1987 and Ms. Brunt does a fantastic job of recreating the atmosphere in the country surrounding HIV/AIDS in that time period when the disease was first introduced into the public discourse.
14-year-old June is very observant and has the most amazing views on life, but she is also very naive and only gradully realizes what has really been going on with Finn, her beloved uncle who suffers from AIDS.
Every second page there seemed to be a beautiful line or an interesting observation on life, or just a curious anecdote from June's life.
It all added to June's narrative voice and sometimes naive, however curious observations on life.
If you like stories à la "To Kill a Mockingbird" told from a child's perspective, I cannot recommend this book enough.
4.5 Rating!I just finished reading this story--(didn't want to stop) ---so I kept on reading 'before' my normal early morning exercise (walk,yoga, spin, or 'something').Then...I also just noticed there are 'many' already High rating reviews --(a few low ones)...A few readers thought this book might be better as a Young Adult read.I WAS fully engaged with this story --(yet its not without flaws)...My reason for the high rating was 'pure-involvement' ---I was invested --and I was thinking --I was touched --I also 'questioned' a few things a few things which were pretty off base ---(but kept forgiving them)...There are main characters --and supporting characters!There is a dominate theme --yet there is many 'sub' themes!I could find much to discuss about with others....(always a good sign of a Fiction book)...Overall: I liked it!!!
Sweet sad story. I just stepped back in time with June to the time this story was set. I was that nerdy girl that just didn't feel like she fit in anywhere. This book will break your heart but then restore your soul.
So when she receives an invite to meet from Toby, Finn's lover, a man who June never knew existed, she accepts.
Toby had been banned from attending Finn's funeral by June's parent's.
Aids is new, the disease is new to the medical experts, there is a lot of scaremongering happening; how you can catch it, is it just gays or heterosexual people as well who can be at risk.
They though they would catch Aids from paper.” ' Think how this must have all been to fourteen year old June.
And even more surprising, Brunt does it, not by having June cry or wallow or tell us how empty she feels, but through her actions, and more importantly, through a million anecdotes and personal stories about her and her Uncle Finn.
But I do have a feeling that Brunt intended June's relationships, with Finn, with Tobey, even with Greta, to be very complex, and I loved having to guess and trying to figure out what each of them meant to June.
But I didn't like the ending at all, because when June finally clarifies those relationships, admits her feelings to Toby, I'm left wondering - that's it?
There’s also some very tense and poignant sibling stuff going on between June and her older sister, Greta, who is also leading a secret life.However, the book was sort of slow, and I did frequently look to see what page I was on, at least during the first three-quarters of the book.
Still, the sister is intriguing and complex and the author does expand her role as the book moves on.I must admit that I’m kind of sick of teenage angst though.
The authors often tend to make their book sound like it’s YA; there’s something precious and simplistic in the language and internal monologues, which adds a Hallmark feel to it.This is a debut novel.
Maalesef herkesin aksine ben bir türlü sevemedim. Ne hikayenin içine girebildim ne de hikayenin amacını anlayabildim. Kitap boyunca gördüğüm tek şey dayısına saplantılı küçük bir kız oldu. O nedenle okumayı tercih etmedim ve 300 sayfadan sonra yarım bırakmaya karar verdim.Not: 100 sayfa daha tekrar okudum ama sonuç yine aynı ve maalesef ki kitap okuyamama durumuna kapılarımı sonuna kadar açtım :(Ve 3. Okumada sonu görebildim. Şükür. Herkesin sevdiği beğendiği kadar sevmedim. Okuduğum en iyi kitap da değil kesinlikle. Sevgi ve sevginin türlerini başarılı bir şekilde anlatmış. Fakat çok zahmetli bir kitap olduğunu düşünüyorum.
This is me after finishing read this book:  I can imagine in my head Carol Rifka Brunt deciding to write a book. I can see her thinking what can I say and write that will leave an impact on my readers. What will make them remember this book straight until they take their last breath. *Scratches Head* that's it's, I'll write about an issue that are real and true to everyone....AIDS and To top it all off I'm going to tell this story in the POV of a fourteen year old girl call June. Be prepared to
I can see her thinking what can I say and write that will leave an impact on my readers.
*Scratches Head* that's it's, I'll write about an issue that are real and true to everyone....AIDS and To top it all off I'm going to tell this story in the POV of a fourteen year old girl call June.
This Eloquently Scripted masterpiece is a must read that will leave you thinking about it for months and years to come.
Tell the Wolves I'm Home is a book I personally think that everyone should read and re read time and time again.
