https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/219205.Lord_Foul_s_Bane
*Soul-saddened SIGH*.....Damn, damn, DAMN...life can really be full of suck.  This book really torched my hopes and dreams. NOT because it was nightmarishly horrible (which it wasn’t) but because I wanted it to be so brimming with steaming chunks of mouth-watering awesome that I could write a stinging, snark-filled “anti-anti-Thomas Covenant” review...my rant against the ranters.I suspected I had a excellent chance of really liking this story because most of the criticism of the series revolves
NOT because it was nightmarishly horrible (which it wasn’t) but because I wanted it to be so brimming with steaming chunks of mouth-watering awesome that I could write a stinging, snark-filled “anti-anti-Thomas Covenant” review...my rant against the ranters.I suspected I had a excellent chance of really liking this story because most of the criticism of the series revolves around how douchy and unlikeable Thomas Covenant (the main character) is.
including a heinous act of sexual violence which Donaldson thoughtfully sketches out for us just enough to make sure we don't miss the point: yes, Covenant really does rape a character after she's just healed him of his leprosy.Ladies and gentlemen, Our Hero.Of course, that's merely the most glaring flaw in a book chock full of awful.
I'd go on further, but honestly, there's only so long I can stomach kicking this dog of a novel before I feel the need to wash the taste of Donaldson's florid writing and his "hero" out of my brain.I regret ever reading this book, and I am absolutely flabbergasted that it has enough readers and fans to have led to seven-count-'em-seven sequels as of this writing.
My position is essentially this: You can hate a character for many good reasons, but having no clue who he really is, is not one of them.Some readers seem to want to excuse Covenant to some extent as an anti-hero, but I think this misses a larger point: his Chronicles, of which this book is the first, are a kind of anti-fantasy.
This is the man who, after an accident, "wakes up" in the Land -- a place of magic, where health can not only be seen but restored: as he soon discovers, his leprosy is cured, and only his missing fingers are not returned to him.Naturally, he rejects the Land, and all its inhabitants.And here is where the story -- and Covenant, too -- begins to pall on some readers.
But I didn’t know until now how important Lord Foul’s Bane was to all of that.This story has stuck with me in the most amazing ways.
I remembered minute details about Thomas Covenant’s attitude towards his leprosy, especially when it came to the VSE (Visual Surveillance of Extremities) rituals that sustained him in our world and the new rituals he developed during his time in the Land.
I remembered Atiaran’s stone knife and the way Covenant tempted the fate of his leprosy with its keen edge – the edge that never dulled.
I remembered the way Covenant – hero?
But I do know this: Stephen R Donaldson is my unsung hero of fantasy greatness.
There's one scene in this book where the guy MC rapes a young girl, feels a wee bit guilty for betraying her trust, but then brushes it off and moves on.
I get that he's in a world that isn't totally real and therefore has all sorts of fascinating questions on morality (like if it happened in a dream would it still be considered wrong).
Like I think my biggest issue was the main character...
I mean, I've been mildly annoyed with some main characters before (Kvothe comes to mind), but have never actually wanted to stop reading because the narrator was so thoroughly unpleasant.
Wow. I really didn't like this book.I think it was in large part due to the fact that I found the main character so utterly unlikable. Heck, he's even despicable.Some people can read and enjoy a book despite not being able to empathize with the characters; I'm not one of those people. I actually like to care about my fictional characters. It's pretty hard to give a flying fickle about some cranky jerk who rapes a woman in the first book. I didn't bother reading more to find out if things improved from there.
Oh, in case you forgot: Thomas Covenant is a leper outcast unclean.Now that I finally finished the book, I am underwhelmed.
The only really original part is that the main character is a leper outcast unclean.The book was probably shocking in the time it was written, but if one compares it to modern fantasy, it is very mild - with the exception of the scene I already mentioned, but even that is not THAT shocking nowadays; it just strengthens reader's revulsion for Thomas Covenant who is a leper outcast unclean.Speaking of the main character - he is NOT an anti-hero as some readers call him.
Like I said, it was a slogfest.It's also too bad, because he's rather an asshole.After reading so much modern fantasy, I ALMOST wish he'd done something other than rape the wide-eyed girl that was doing her damnedest to help him, like murder a cute puppy or an innocent child.
That was one of the nicer aspects of the novel, other than the realizations of Covenant, himself.Okay, now here's my biggest nut and bolt complaint: Lord Foul is both a pretty damn interesting strategist and uber-powerful magical villain.
Then I bought up some fantasy books for about a quarter a piece on a trip to the always wonderful bookstore(I love this cat, he likes to sometimes sit on my back while I'm crouched down looking for books,) in Schuylerville (turning point of the Revolutionary War, and home of the most disgusting home I ever stepped foot in, but that is another story, I'll try to fit into some other review where dog shit plays a promiment role.).
This long and uninteresting story has no real point, except that I want to get rid of books, but I feel I need to read them before getting rid of them.
For more on why that bothers me and should bother you, please go to my profile and also here:http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...What I learned from this book.Don’t agree to read the book Robert tells you is the best book in the whole world ever just because he invited you over to watch the best film in the whole world ever (Close Encounters) and you slept through all but the first ten minutes.You know you are going to hate this book before you’ve even opened it.
You know you can’t read it out of guilt.
I went to sleep knowing that I was covered...and covered by the words of a pro no less.Back then, I imagined that Donaldson wrote "What came before" himself (although it was more likely a P.R. person for Del Rey); still, I was sure I was in great shape for the next day, and there was no way I'd get caught.
I guess I'll never know.Regardless, Lord Foul's Bane will always have a place in my pantheon of great books, if only because it is as huge a part of my personal back story as Lady Chatterly's Lover.
Covenant is an anti-hero because he is embittered by the only reality he knows, and the new reality before him is almost as comical as the one, as a writer, he had pushed on other readers.The problem is, of course, that the other characters don't share in Covenant's solipsistic views.
They will suffer and die because Covenant refuses to deal with this new reality.
They are two different tales.Read this book at your peril, but agree to undertake the journey to the bitter end with an open mind that not all heroes wear shining armor and are ascetics on horseback.
So many people love this series. Not sure why. The hero is a leperous (no, not lecherous) rapist and incredibly whiny. The bad guy is named Lord Foul, ferchissakes. I hated everything about the first few chapters of this book. Once the main character forced himself on a girl, and then the author tried to make it a sympathetic moment (for the perpetrator), I hurled it at the wall in disgust and never finished reading it. Right around the same level of arrogant sexist manhood as Piers Anthony.
It's not so much the story--in itself, this is a well-crafted fantasy world, complete with noble horse-riding peoples, stern giants, and delicate elven-folk on a quest of profound importance against an enemy of world-shattering magnitude--as much as Donaldson's overwrought prose that makes this series something of a drag to read.
Donaldson wants his tale to carry all the mythic import of Tolkien, but he doesn't quite have the poetic flair that makes Tolkien's characters live and breathe for us.
In doing so, however, Donaldson forgets to give us any reason to care about his characters.
The Thomas Covenant books have always held a special place in my heart. I freely admit that the series is not for everyone; the singular nature of the protagonist turns a lot of readers away before the first book (this one) is halfway finished.Compared to other heroic fantasy, I find the Covenant books to be somehow more believable, and to have more emotional impact. The theme of redemption, present throughout the series, resonated with me when I first read the books twenty years ago, and continues to resonate with me.
A Swedish friend told me I just had to read this series - it was like Tolkien but better. I borrowed the first three, and dutifully read them, waiting for the point to dawn. It never did. Tolkien, to me, is all about the language and the names, and Donaldson's names ranged between uninspired and downright moronic. ("Berek Halfhand". Bleah.) It just grated.To add insult to injury, I managed to drop one volume into the bath while reading it, so I had to buy a new copy to return to him. I've not looked at Donaldson since.
Thomas Covenant is one of the universe's great whiners.
Thomas Covenant is a real prince.
He meets Lord Foul early on and in-spite of what you will realize about it all, Thomas will fail to realize those things and go right on....for 3 books.Having refused to believe he is healed and that the land is even real, he tags himself "the unbeliever".
Now that I think of it, I DISLIKE these books.I reviewed this a while back, but I want to update it.
It should be thrown with great force."https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
The first thing you have to know about this series, and this is the real pivotal point in whether you want to read them or not, is that Thomas Coveenant is NOT A HERO.
**spoilers (barely, almost what you get off the back cover)** Thomas covenant is a leper.
It's not like, "lucky you, you're healthy!" He figures if he does, the second he wakes back up, as a leper, outcast, unclean , and alone, he would kill himself.
Put yourself in his shoes here~ So that's the premise of the story; and it's good.
Just accept him as a poor, incredibly unfortunate leper, not as a hero, and you'll like it.
Hated it. 1.5 stars. Terrible characters, info-dumping, purple prose, gratuitous rape, and a frequently offputting word choice. I couldn't connect to any of the characters and I at no moment felt concern or anxiety for anyone's well-being. I would have loved for Covenant to die but he's the crux of the series and no other character had an iota of personality so I didn't care about them. I couldn't make myself care about the quest. Donaldson is a pale and pathetic shade of Tolkien and I'll never consider one of his books again. I'll be getting rid of my copy.
At first I wasn't sure that I liked this novel. I had a hard time with the idea that Thomas Covenant is the ultimate anti-hero, with none of the redeeming qualities of an average anti-hero. He is a sniveling, irritating, coward who has to be prodded every step of the way. The only thing that makes him likable is that he is acting in a very human way in a very inhuman circumstance. I had to let go of wanting Covenant to shape and act like a hero. I am looking forward to the rest of the series.
There's a lot to unpack here about the books but the majority of negative reviewers seem to focus on the INFAMOUS incident (spoilers ahead) versus the cliche setting, cardboard characters, and the fact Thomas is a person who doesn't behave in any way like a human being in the situation.The premise is, Thomas Covenant is an author who has attracted leprosy and has been left by his wife as a result as well as being shunned by the community.
But if you can overcome any revulsions to the mature content (trigger warning: if you have triggers, they will at some point be triggered by the Covenant books; these things get seriously nightmarish at times, though this first one is relatively mild, apart from That One Thing), and if you can put aside any natural tendency to laugh at, say, evil maniacal laughter or use of archaic vocabulary, or at Everything Being So Serious All The Time, then this series is not only a seminal landmark in the history of the fantasy genre but also a genuinely interesting literary work of a kind that just doesn't get published anymore.
DNFI'm sure there is a beautiful story arc where Tomas Covenant becomes a good person... but I didn't want to needlessly subject myself to this story at this point.
Another series I did in one long weekend, this was probably one of the most influential series I read during high school.
For some reason I absolutely hated the main character Thomas Conevenant (probably because he was an ass) and my one driving passion was to keep reading until he was killed off.
Until of course the last book in the second series where I got over it and decided he should live and then he was killed off.
Warning: Readers should not expect the main character to show up, draw a magic scimitar or lightsaber, and slice through the enemy. In this series, the bad guys are just part of Thomas Covenant's problem. He is also fighting enemies within himself. Be prepared to feel troubled over his plight and occasionally frustrated by his unwillingness to accept his situation and to fight. There's still plenty of excitement and all the elements of well crafted fantasy. But there's so much more.

This is a bit incoherent. Did not enjoy, even though it is a classic
This part is really good, I got attached to Thomas and generally enjoyed the story.But then, out of sudden, you are thrown into some epic fantasy plot.
But I was getting over it and working it out.The book is a pretty fast read and I was truly getting into the story.
I can only hope that Thomas’ actions will be punished at some point of the story, but I do not intend to read this book just to find out.
Ultimately, I decided to give it two stars because the beginning is very good and probably, if I really wanted to, I would be able to force myself to read this book to the end.
I was first introduced to Thomas Covenant over 20 years ago.
I did not like him them, but The Land and the People held me captive and I read all 6 books.
After finally re-reading this, I can say that I dislike Thomas Covenant even more than I remember.
I almost quit reading because I could not get past my dislike.
I had intended to re-read all 6 books again, I shall leave them in my head as a fond memory (leave the 5 stars ) and not go back to visit The Land.
The older wiser me cannot live with Thomas Covenant again.
DNF at 21%Comparable to Tolkien at his best.Nobody.
Compares.
To. Tolkien.Ok, I thought that the idea will be great - a random guy ends up in Fantasyland and does whatever he want because he thinks he is mad and all the world is just unreal.
I liked idea of him being the wrecked and unlucky human being, shunned from the society.
Leprosy is a cruel disease, but besides him loosing a few fingers, I had no idea if something else was wrong with him.
For me, he was almost like a normal guy.
Sorry, bye.P.S. Leave Tolkien alone.
