https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1348886.Red_Nails
About a year ago, at a library book sale I ran across some collections of Conan stories, which were edited by Karl Edward Wagner.
At the time I remember liking them for the most part, but that I noticed a definite difference when reading the real Howard efforts.
A few comments on the individual stories – along with an occasional Howard nugget below:“Beyond the Black River.” Conan on the Pict frontier.
According to Wagner, this was the last Conan story that Howard would write before his suicide.
If Howard produced a final draft, this may have become his, "Stairway to Heaven." Presumably created while he suffered from crippling depression caused by the declining health and eventual death of his Mother, compounded by a time of unsatisfactory relations with women generally, it's surprising that Valeria is featured.Imagine relentlessly pounding this out on a typewriter with no light at the end of the causeway besides a pulp paycheck and the modest respect of your friends. The author still m
I listened to the audiobook twice, but it didn't shed any light on that catbox of a module.
I'd rate it five stars, but there isn't enough clarity to distinguish the city factions, plus the story would've been better if it had stuck to Conan's point of view.
(view spoiler)[ I hoped for some intrigue between factions, but there was only outright war and mild betrayal.
I had the pleasure of first reading the Conan stories in the order Robert E.
Howard wrote them, which provided a peek into the mind of a profoundly troubled man.
Conan was the last major character he created, and towards the end of Howard's life, the world of Conan became progressively more bleak and barren and grim, its people little more than the remnants of a civilization that had raped, enslaved, and murdered itself into near extinction.
RED NAILS was the final Conan story and didn't make it to publication until after the author's suicide.
It's in the public domain.
2: They discover that the city is not abandoned, but inhabited by two small clans that have been at war for over fifty years.What follows is an adventure filled with magic, swordplay, sex, betrayal, and adventure.
In short, the very nature of sword & sorcery, and it is awesome.There is a faint Yojimbo feel to the story, but only enough of one that you can say, there’s a passing similarity.
If there is any common inspiration, it would be with the 1929 Hammett novel Red Harvest, which could arguably be the case, given the similarity of titles.
This was my first foray into the world of Conan, and boy, what a trip! As I finished the story, I laughed at how little there was to actually take away from it (as in, nothing) but- that's okay. Comically racist and sexist, the story is a great adventure all the way through. Now, I just have to find a reason to exclaim, "Sulky slut!"
But in our age, where most people read Conan stories in collections, it's hard to remember that there were other contributors to Weird Tales, and Howard comes out looking slightly better in comparison.
Fortunately, there's a lot of fighting.I have to say I love a character like Conan.
Heroes that are employed to solve a problem for non main characters (common in D&D, less so in epic fantasy), magical monsters, and a story that is gradually reveled to the adventurers as the accomplish tasks.
The influence this story had on Dungeons and Dragons is very obvious.I don't think I've written a review this long before.
This was written when you knew straight down the line who the bad guys were and who the good guys were.What I find especially fascinating about Conan himself is that he is not a hero in the classical sense.
He is an anti-hero and a bad-ass.
In fact I think he might have been one of the first dark heroes in fantasy literature.
If Conan wasn't the protagonist of the story, he would have been the villain, no questions asked.
But he is the protagonist, and we root for this mans man to kill people, slay dragons, and get the scantly-clad damsel.Really good stuff.
In my opinion, one of the strangest Conan stories ever written, and one of the best.
Sure, the character development is pathetic, but who cares?
A completely enclosed city, factions of the same tribe at war with one another, engaged in a violent competition, gorgeous women in loin cloths, a despot king, monsters from below, and a dinosaur.
They call it a dragon, but it is totally a dinosaur.
Let us not forget that Conan is known as the barbarian, the destroyer, the conqueror, and only rarely the adventurer.
Sometimes it is okay for the main character to be unlikable.
My very first foray into the realm of Conan the Barbarian. A few things stood out for me.1. The mood and the setting had a tremendous feel. Howard is not just some pulp fiction author - he really knew his craft.2. Conan was far more literate than I ever expected. Probably the result of seeing the Conan movies so many years ago. This was not disappointing in the least. Just took some getting used to. 3. The action was beautifully written - something I expected of course but it far exceeded my expectations. I'll certainly be going back for more.
Some of the best Howard Conan stories, presented with minimal to no editing by Karl Edward Wagner. This is how they were meant to be read.
Robert E. Howard's original Conan stories are much like Ian Fleming's Bond books: utterly ridiculous but also incredibly entertaining. I liked them, and I shall read more!
In my opinion one of the best of Howard's Conan short stories.
I have read this story several times in the past, and after the Conan movie I thought "Wow, the plot really sucked.
Why didn't they do something like "Red Nails" which reminded me I hadn't read it for ten or twenty years.
Nope, still as fun as ever.Think of if the Hatfields and MaCoys were trapped in an enclosed city of three or four stories, surrounded by ancient magics, bizarre monsters, and one of the clans is led by an immoral Countess Bathory.
Fun stuff.
This is a great story.
It's a good reminder of what makes a story compelling; in lesser stories, the villains predictably have a motive from a pretty standard set - take over the world, or destroy civilisation, or bring down the good guy for $REASONS.
But in Conan (and by extension, many a D&D campaign), the villains have unpredictable motives that serve their own interests; who has time to take over the world when the local elder demon is hungry for more human sacrifices?As far as I know, this is the last Robert E Howard Conan story.
The skill with which he paints a picture of these characters is wonderful.
I have been reading Howard since I’m 13 years old.
Arnie was not a bad character in the movies, but still did not fulfill the image from these stories.
If you have a chance to read them all - do it.
This was a good story.
It stands alone, but gives a sense of the hyperborean world.
You cannot read it from a modern, pc, perspective.
Read with an open mind.
But, always, there is a nuance that gives pause.
another from howard...the...7th, 8th or so...most of them conan stories, all save 2 i think.
valeria of the red brotherhood is a woman you don't want to mess with...she can hold her own...no sweet polly purebread, her.
same goes for the "racist" charge...unless that be found in conan back-talking a dragon.
i think not...& i have supplied something from the story so it isn't an empty charge, like the others.
but it is fashionable to think otherwise and so it goes.anyway...this story is great...lots of suspense...conan and valeria find themselves in this roofed city where two tribal factions have been warring it out amongst themselves for years.
A great tale from the Conan series of stories.
You can pretty much tell how things will end well before the final page, but Howard's storytelling makes the journey fun nonetheless.
This is a quick read full of fun hack n' slash fantasy; the kind you just don't find nowadays.
Both the content and the language (so many adverbs!) are a throwback to a different time, and one that I personally enjoy far more than the overblown doorstop fantasies in today's market.If you've never read any of the "Conan" stories before, this is a good jumping off point.
This one started out as a classic Conan tale: chasing after a girl and fighting a dragon, etc. But once it got into the city and dealt with two dueling factions, it lost my interest. I kind of felt that Howard lost interest in it at that point too. Once the fight was over, he quickly wrapped it up and ended the story. It could have been more.
I have read this at least 6 or 7 times PLUS each of the stories in other anthologies. Three of the best Conan stories in one book. Great representation of Conan's career and REH's writing style. NOTE: My copy still has the fold out poster that comes attached to the inside cover.
Fantastic fantasyI read this 40 years ago. Like good wine it improves with age. Total escapism. For any fantasy fan. I am looking forward to reading the complete works. I chose five stars for sheer enjoyment.
Hack-and-slash writing with the emphasis on hack! The prose is functional and the characters fairly one-dimensional, but Red Nails is nonetheless weirdly enjoyable, thanks to the plot-driven, fast-paced action. Read it when you want to give your brain a break.
Un clásico del sword and sorcery en todo su esplendor. Una historia oscura y llena de giros interesantes. Recomendada.
Excelent Story 💕💕💕
Grim but fun Conan story, with dinosaur/dragons and lots of violence of all sort.Don't read if you are PC-sensitive tho.
Red Nails is both the title of an individual story and the four work collection in which it is included.
These bookend the collection well, providing interesting anecdotes about the compositions and information about Howard.The four works:“Beyond the Black River”—this tale is different than some of the Conan stories in that there is no female love interest.
Casual Conan fans can skip it with no loss in regard to the appreciation of the stories, but those readers interested in the setting are well rewarded for the effort.
Further, the essay provides a work of vital interest for Conan fans and scholars who want to dig deeper into the character and overall setting.
Red Nails follows Conan and his companion Valeria as they stumble upon a mysterious city in the desert.
There is action, magic, lust, and enough bloodshed to satisfy the pulp fan.
In Red Nails he gloats so much about his deeds that Valeria quips, “"Is there anything you haven't been?" Howard writes him as a larger than life superhero, leaping off the page at the reader in a burst of adventure.
My favorite character in this story was Valeria, Conan’s pirate companion.
While Conan can work his way through problems with his brawn and cunning, Valeria actually has to overcome trouble throughout the tale.
Four out of five stars from an REH fan - one champion story, a good one, and one stinker.
The Hyborian Age (notes from Howard on his world mythos).My review:'Shadows in Zamboula' was my favorite of the three stories.
Thumbs up.I've heard several Howard fans describe 'Beyond the Black River' as one of Howard's most cohesive Conan stories.
I thought it was fair, but not great (as Conan stories go).
Glenn Lord's afterword discusses the likelihood that REH was writing himself and his dog into the story.
Sort of like seeing REH's fantasy vision of himself in the world he created.'Red Nails' was my least favorite.
This is a good yarn with a lot of great sword-and-sorcery ideas: Dinosaurs, a hidden city, a cruel and decadent society, magic that is half real and half trickery, and a lot of visceral violence. The race stuff is not as dominant as some other REH works but it is gross when it appears. Valeria of the Red Brotherhood is an okay character, but she suffers from Male Lead Induced Incompetence: She's a total badass except when Conan is around and she suddenly needs him to do everything for her.
My friend, Michael, says I read too many girly books.
Howard, it seems, wrote fantasy adventure things that are wildly popular with a certain set.
K. Rowling, I've never read fantasy adventure.
I didn't figure I'd be much of a fan of fantasy adventure, and now I can say that I'll still not much of a fan.
Since I have a couple more Howards lined up on my kindle, I'll likely read them, but I doubt I'll make this a habit.
The woman on the horse reined in her weary steed.
It stood with its legs wide-braced, its head drooping, as if it found even the weight of the gold-tasseled, red-leather bridle too heavy.
The woman drew a booted foot out of the silver stirrup and swung down from the gilt-worked saddle.
She made the reins fast to the fork of a sapling, and turned about, hands on her hips, to survey her surroundings.
Giant trees hemmed in the small pool where her horse had just drunk.
The woman shivered with a twitch of her magnificent shoulders, and then cursed.
