https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/320697.The_Shadow_Over_Innsmouth_And_Other_Stories_Of_Horror
No puedo creer que haya estado 21 años sin leer a Lovecraft.Este libro está conformado por una serie de cuentos organizados según el año de publicaciónDagón (1917) (que fue mi favorito)La maldición que cayó sobre Sarnath (1919) Del más allá (1920) En la cripta (1925) y finalmente la novela La sombra sobre Innsmouth (1931)Lo único que puedo decir es que de este hombre no me vuelvo a desprender en la vida. Con Howard Phillips me volví a enamorar.
Choosing Innsmouth's Deep Ones allows Emrys, in Winter Tide, to make a pointed comment on the Japanese internment camps of World War II without needing to beat it up again...the US Government had the camps in place for the Innsmouth people they rounded up after the events in this novella!
Agradable reencuentro tras años en que leí la magnifica obra completa de Valdemar.Encontramos 3 relatos de los más representativos de su obra y 2 más, junto su mujer y el otro con un amigo.
Pero todo esto comienza con una breve introducción del genial Javier, que no necesita escribir 60 páginas para ponernos en situación y con el motor arrancado.Lo más reseñable y que diferencia de la multitud de ediciones posibles es su traducción, mimo, y tener un libro humilde que perfectamente podría ser el que tu harías con pocos medios como amante de los libros y de este autor.
Queriendo hacerlo lo mejor posible.
This collection has three particularly fine H. P. Lovecraft tales - The Colour Out of Space, The Festival, and The Shadow over Innsmouth. These three stories alone are worth the price of admission, and I believe showcase Lovecraft at his finest, and are also good examples of why no one can utilize the Mythos like its creator. The other stories are much weaker, with the science fiction collaboration with fan Kenneth Sterling, is particularly weak, and overlong. The three best stories, are however, magnificent and must reads if you are interested in Lovecraft.
No soy muy amante de las historias cortas pero esta me gusto mucho, las primeras paginas pueden ser un poco lentas pero en cuanto el protagonista llega Innsmouth todo sucede tan rápido que no pude dejar de leer hasta terminar, tal vez lo único que no me gusto es que casi no hay dialogo pero fuera de eso una entretenida historia.
This is a very creepy story that has you wondering how he can escape the awfulness of it all. The main character finds out the strange people of Innsmouth are not that different from him after a harrowing night being stuck in the town. I hoped he would escape but there's no real escape for him because of his genetics.
Todo envuelto y materializado en mundos paralelos al nuestro, en donde la aparición de extrañas criaturas son sólo la punta del iceberg de algo mayor: el descubrimiento de una civilización que existió antes de la existencia del ser humano y que descansan en las profundidades, esperando ser despertados para fagocitarlo todo."La sombra sobre Innsmouth" relata la historia de un pueblo solitario situado en la costa del Océano Atlántico.
Pero en el tiempo en el que tuvo amnesia, este profesor había realizado estudios acerca de algunos vestigios dejados por una civilización anterior a la del ser humano.
En fin, salvando la distancia con el personaje, en este recopilatorio hay un par de sus obras más famosas (e imprescindibles), La llamada de Cthulhu y La sombra sobre Innsmouth, así como cuatro relatos más, de los cuales solo conocía Dagón y de los cuales destaco El templo, un cuento muy divertido y recomendable.
Las cartas seleccionadas me han gustado, y además muchas tienen relación con la publicación de Cthulhu por lo que vienen muy a cuento.
*The edition I read contained more stories than the ones listed here*Lovecraft is hard to rate for me.
His best work (things like The Color Out of Space, The Dreams in the Witch House, The Outsider) is practically required reading for horror fans while much of his lesser fiction (The Transition of Juan Romero, Man of Stone) is basically a waste of your time.
Still, Lovecraft knew how to scare people and that is really the nicest thing you can say about an author in this genre.
Lovecraft attempts to scare you in your spine, the place where your body processes primal fear.
This book is classic, highly recommended reading.It's the story of a traveler heading to the fictional New England town of Arkham to do some genealogical research.
On his way, he finds a detour heading through Innsmouth that should speed up the trip.
In what he hopes to be a quick stay he finds malevolent forces at work within.The writing itself starts slow, and I found myself more interested in the plot than the actual words used to describe it.
This was one of the best written books I've read involving an investigatory plot line.
Glad I got around to itI wanted to get into Lovecraft, and this story was a great intro. Perfect way to learn the major themes and motifs of the greater works.
If I recall correctly, I initially read only two of the stories, the titular "Shadow over Innsmouth" and the first offering, "The Colour out of Space." I then moved to the annotated collections published by Penguin.
"In the Walls of Eryx," likewise, shows that science fiction wasn't Lovecraft's strong suit.Those who collect other writers' stories into gathered volumes have their own logic for including what they do.
This collection appeared before Lovecraft reached the level of stardom and fandom that he currently enjoys.
Still, this was my introduction to Lovecraft.
I like this little book because of that.
Que sienta esos escalofríos ricos al terminar de leer una historia, y que quiera releerla inmediatamente es una señal definitiva que me ha gustado el libro.
Luego de haber leído de manera progresiva: La ciudad sin nombre, El ceremonial, El llamado de Cthulhu, me tocaba sumergirme en la locura de este pueblo misterioso; se me hizo un poco difícil agarrarle la onda al inicio, pero cuando ya tenía las riendas bajo control podía sentir el temor del protagonista y a querer desvelar el misterio...
que por cierto no termina cuando logra escapar del pueblo.
Una lectura que requiere que mastiques y disfrutes :)
Gran recopilatorio de relatos marinos del colega HPL. No solo imprescindibles individualmente sino que guardan una coherencia especial, formando una gran historia gracias al orden escogido. Muy chulo el detalle de los poemas y las cartas del final, aunque algunas ilustraciones y dibujos tienen una especie de pixelado algo molesto. Aun así, es una edición imprescindible tanto para veteranos en la obra del genio de Providence como para novatos que no saben por dónde hincarle el diente.
<3
Vaguely analogous to Bierce story "The Damned Thing?""The Outsider" -- Josh & Clark (Stuff You Should Know) read this tale of unearthed, indescribable horrorific thing discovering itself."Imprisoned with the Pharaohs" -- marching mummies, walking horrors, and hippo-paw-tentacle Unknown God lurk under the Egyptian Sphinx in this tale narrated by Harry Houdini."The Transition of Juan Romero" -- early Lovecraft tells more, shows less, in this story about a Mexican Aztec seized by a great cavern beast."In the Walls of Eryx" -- reprehensible space man whose grand plan is to kill all the Vesuvian creatures is thwarted by a clear labyrinth and consumed by ever-encroaching death."The Festival" -- mental illness?
«te cuenta» la historia, es decir, pese a ser un hombre que vivió a principios del siglo XX, el lenguaje que utiliza no es para nada «engorroso» fue uno de los motivos por los que en realidad me di por satisfecho en mi primera vez con Lovecraft, me satisfizo el hecho de conocer el estilo de este gran autor.
So even if I am left a little disappointed with the implementation and narratives, I still enjoyed a glimpse into the mythos that has inspired so much over the years.Quick thoughts on the tales included in this volume;The Shadow Over Innsmouth - Enjoyable, good exposition, delightful twist in the ending, but goodness would I have liked it to have been pared down a little.
It's supposed to be an Xmas tale, but falls short of much.The Color Out of Space - Actually the first short story of the group (despite what the back of the book relates and how I am listing these little reviews) and certainly my favourite out of the batch.Imprisoned with the Pharaohs - This was difficult to get through.
For all the psychological unraveling going on, this is physical horror of a very viscous texture :D Things get sticky in the worlds of Lovecraft, and the reader feels the unsightly cling when they try to peel their hand away from it.
bah, there's madness in them thar hills!You know, after a little more time thinking about it, I'm glad for the descriptive edge writers like Lovecraft use in horror.
Lovecraft and his kind take the time-out needed to describe an environment to its fullest, layering the stage with all kinds of malignant detail before tripping the wire and letting the physical aspects roll along their fated course.
Leer cómo un borracho cuenta eventos ocurrido en Inssmouth resulta cansado por lo artificial de sus expresiones, que nos dejan asumir que Lovecraft escribió su diálogo usando patrones de habla que el pensaba era como sonaría un personaje con las características que él había elegido, pero que en realidad jamás escucho hablar a alguien así.De cualquier manera, esta es una historia con el sello distintivo de Lovecraft que sus aficionados sin duda no pueden dejar de leer.
I was debating between 3 stars and 2, I decided on 3 because it did keep me interested and reading in order to find out what the end of each story was.
Also his story telling, especially in 7 in a row, demonstrates a formulaic approach (with slight exceptions).
Use of descriptions such as "there are no words that can describe the horror that stood before me" (or other such parallels).
It can get predictable, and especially the "indescribable" description starts to grate on me.
But I can fully understand the use though;a good horror let's you imagine your own fears.
One often fears the unknown more than a vivid description.
If you've read Lovecraft's best short stories ("The Call of Cthulhu," "The Thing on the Doorstep," "Pickman's Model," etc.) and you still aren't convinced that he was the best post-Poe American horror writer, then read this, his best novella.
As always with Lovecraft, the book's horrifying impact doesn't come from the depiction of bizarre and unsettling things in the main action of the story (though that's there), but from the psychological implications of forbidden knowledge and the sense that one cannot escape one's fate.
I hesitate to provide any kind of summary for The Shadow Over Innsmouth, because Lovecraft's work is always best appreciated if you have no knowledge of the story going in.
This is the second short story I've read by HP Lovecraft.
I enjoyed this title more than "The Call of Cthulu" and found the twist to be intriguing although poorly foreshadowed.
This seemed less disjointed than some of his other works but I still find the intrigue and suspense to be poorly lacking.
Lovecraft excels, it seems, in being overly descriptive and boring at times.
I am fascinated by the Cthulu mythos and by Lovecraft himself so it saddens me that I have been somewhat underwhelmed by his writing.
A decent selection of standard Lovecraft, including two classics, "The Shadow of Innsmouth" and "The Lurking Fear". It has become popular to criticize "pulp" authors like Lovecraft for the way in which their work often reflects the racist and xenophobic attitudes that prevailed during their lifetimes, but as long as the reader is willing to allow the writer to be a child of his times without imputing more overtly aggressive motives to his failings, the stories still hold up well, much the way Poe or Arthur Conan Doyle do.
I bought a book from Mestas Editions that included this story as well as Dagon and The Colour Out of Space, and I liked this one better than the others. Despite the reading is a bit longer I felt the narration flowing and vibrating on every page. One curious thing I have to point out is, as well as the narrator on this tale, I was also on a trip to a small town myself during this reading. And I finished it almosta at the very last minute before taking the bus back home.
Lovecraft may not have possessed the literary genius of American weird fiction writer A.E. Poe, but his work has been hugely influential in modern culture. In just about every form of media from film to video games we find echoes of Lovecraft's Old Ones and weird cosmology. His later tales, particularly The Case of Charles Dexter Ward, The Call of Cthulu, The Shadow Over Innsmouth and At the Mountains of Madness are his finest and should satisfy just about anyone's imp of the perverse.
Debo mencionar que termine el libro porque quise saber cuál era el final, por lo que puedo decir, que me tuvo interesada, mas no fue de mi total agrado. La historia se alargo demasiado y autor describe “demasido” ciertas escenas que son un tanto obvias para el lector donde la deducción de la trama muchas veces es bastante obvia y cuando por fin hay algo relevante, ya no es tan sorprendente por lo mismo.Horror? Para nada, podría decirse que algo de suspenso nada más.
This particular edition of stories by H.P. Lovecraft was my first exposure to this master of horror. Most of his stories are what I'd call psychological horror stories, taking human being's worst fears and telling tales of how we face them. Another theme of his writing are those stories revolving around The Necronomicon and the ancient evils that accompany it. These are straight up horror stories and very satisfying if you like creepy stories rather than gory stories.
I read this at about age 10 or 11; it's a very old book and was old when I read the torn covered copy my parents had. I loved it! Still like the writing, which was creepy and archaic without being graphic or gory. Lovecraft's ability to evoke a scene and a character was truly breathtaking. What a good writer he was. Don't care if it was "light" fiction, it was a great read. Try it out.
This is one of my all time favorites by Lovecraft. This was the first story that led me to his Dagon mythology and I think it is one of his most creepy and well done. Lovecraft has a great way of sucking his reader in with his incredibly involved backstories and he just builds and builds on the mythos he crafted with a god-like detail.
