https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/564134.Death_of_a_Fool
In this mumming play, the father - the fool - is beheaded by his sons and resurrected miraculously at the end, while a hobby horse called 'Crack' and a hermaphroditic figure named 'Betty' prance around.
But then, Ralph also has a motive as the old man was dead against his marrying his granddaughter.
And lastly, Simon Begg can also be added to the list of suspects because he wanted to convert the smithy into a garage-cum-service station, to which idea the sons are amenable but the blacksmith dead against.Enter Roderick Alleyn...------------------------------As mysteries go, this is only average.
In the English village of South Mardian the winter solstice is marked by a complex ritual dance performed solely by men.
This year, not long after WW II, the major participants in the dance are the local smithy and his four sons - who have a long ancestry in the area - a village doctor, a parson's son/lawyer, and a former army officer.The story acted out in the dance is described as resembling 'King Lear' because it involves children (in this case sons) at odds with their old father.
Moreover, since I didn't actually see the dance and am not familiar with British folk dancing, the descriptions were difficult to follow.
My favourite Ngaio Marsh story is the one that does not involve the theatre or New Zealand.
Death of a Fool is set in a snowy English village holding out against the 20th century.
It could easily be silly, but Ngaio Marsh is far too good a writer to slip into that error.
The story has a village smithy, a mediæval folk dance, eccentric gentry, a village natural, and an artsy German folklorist doing a wonderful imitation of the modern obsession with ethnicity.
I am in awe of a New Zealander who could have written a classic murder mystery in such a setting and absolutely pulled it off.
Marsh combines that with the ability to describe her well drawn characters using humor and engaging them actions that hint at the psychology underneath.The murder mystery is a perfect genre for someone able to portray the smallest ripples of emotion and perception.
In this mystery she has her detective, Alleyn, say "Motive, I detest motive!" Often many people have a motive, but which one is off the rails enough to take a life?
In addition to her character skills Marsh sets this mystery deep in the rural north of England and we get to see what village life was truly like there not long after WWII.
Part of the enjoyment of this book was not only the excellent descriptions but the historical information regarding some of the ancient English folk dances and traditions occurring around the Christmas seasoning. Marsh also presents material that would suggest that Shakespeare incorporated some of the folk themes in his "King Lear." Marsh's knowledge of theatre was also very helpful.
This was a reread. I remembered the basics, but not all the details. Actually, I was impressed what a strong impression some parts left, while other parts I remembered as being completely different. A good Ngaio Marsh, but not her best.
Set in 1950s Britain, an annual ritual dance held on the winter solstice. When one of the principle participants is beheaded, Inspector Alleyn of Scotland Yard becomes involved as he unravels the mysteries of the eighteenth century ceremony.
The winter solstice is nearing, and South Mardian is preparing for its local mummery play that the community has held on Sword Wednesday for centuries, passing along the music and dance orally for the Dance of the Five Sons in Death of a Fool by Ngaio Marsh.
Ernie, who is “not quite right in the head,” has long wanted to play the Fool, and it seems he will get his wish when he produces a note from the Geiser, who has been sick, saying that he can’t go on.
They all do the routine, which ends with a mock decapitation of the Fool by the swords of all five sons.
This particular story bothered me particularly for a number of reasons:First, Marsh's books continue to be painfully class ridden.
In earlier books Alleyn felt uncomfortable requiring fingerprints from suspects and in later books he seems to feel uncomfortable actually asking questions.
The only way Marsh can account for the difficulty of solving the case is to have the local police officers act like bucolic yokels and the men from Scotland Yard to spend more of their time deferring to the gentry and feeling uncomfortable asking questions than doing the work they were called in do to.Marsh does not limit her stereotyping to the gentry and the "peasants" either.
I did feel obligated to read this book I had checked out, trying to give this author another opportunity to capture my admiration. The first stumbling block is the dialect of the blacksmith and family. The next major problem is the staging of ancient dance that is too complicated to explain. It seems to me that the play was the thing for Marsh, and for me the play and all the characters were annoying at best.
Sigh, why can't I make the Goodreads website work so that the British version of the book is the one I can display.'Off With His Head' is my version, a much better title too!Marvellous plot this one, and a real puzzler when I read it first.
You can tell, reading this, that Marsh was someone who loved the theatre.
I wish the younger writers of historical novels would study her dialogue to learn how to effortlessly flow between rural working class, rural middle and upper middle classes and the so called 'old gentry' in the 1st half of the 20thC.
1956, #19 Roderick Alleyn, CID, rural village of South Mardian; classic village cosy/police procedural.
Novel also published as DEATH OF A FOOL in US 1957.
The Winter Solstice celebrations in the odd little village of South Mardian are ancient, very well-respected, and very private, seen by invitation only.
But they become extremely public when the lead dancer gets his head cut off during the sword dance.
Absolutely perfect setting, tone, characterization and mood, with classic characterizations and a really neatly twisted plot.
Not all that “genteel” despite all the usual flourishes, as there’s plenty of dark doings abroad, and the murder itself is rather grisly.
SynopsisWhen the Sword Dancer's mock beheading becomes horribly real, it is Superintendent Rodercik Alleyn who must discover who had the best motive for murder.
One of the reasons I like these old fashioned murder mysteries - aside from all the "proper Englishness" and class snobbery which is hilarious - is because the plots are properly comlex and minutely worked out.
Everything is laid out before the reader so if they wanted to make notes and work it out themselves (if given enough facts) they probably could - I never go that far, and so generally just guess.
I have to confess on the whole I found this a difficult read which I will attempt to explain.The setting of the early scene was really well done when we met Mrs Bunz a German woman with an academic interest in folklore visiting the village of South Mardian in order to witness the “Dance of the Five Sons,” a mixture between a mummers play and a sword dance which has been performed in the village for generations at the time of the winter solstice.
Fortunately for the time when we met the performers there were five sons all alive to accompany their father, even older, to give the villagers a show.
It is easy to see who gets killed in this story – the fool - but who did it? This story takes place in the rural parts of England. There is a play dance that takes place every Wednesday after the winter solstice., This performance is old and is called a 'Morris dance. That name is derived from 'morisco' dance, which is an allusion to the Moors that did not leave Spain after the Christian conquest, and that is not right for this performance if the history dates back to Druids. There are five son
It is easy to see who gets killed in this story – the fool - but who did it?
This story takes place in the rural parts of England.
There is a play dance that takes place every Wednesday after the winter solstice., This performance is old and is called a 'Morris dance.
In the play, there is tomfoolery and dancing, etc, and towards the end the fool is killed, but rises again to end the play.
There are interesting developments, but nothing that affects the murder solution.
In South Mardian, a sword dance/fertility ritual/mummer play is performed every year, but this time, the fool (the father) is actually beheaded.
I don't know anything about English folk dances, but the dance featured in Death of a Fool is interesting.
The dance is performed by the elderly blacksmiths, his five sons and a couple of other village men.
They are also the most obvious suspects, especially the sons as they were the ones with the sword during the dance.
Of course, the other performers have motives too.
I liked all the characters, too, especially Dame Alice Mardian, the ninety-plus year old village matriarch.
One of my other issues with previous Marsh books I've read was how often Alleyn will have a theory or a plan that he explains to the other characters, but not to the reader.
I prefer to assume he's got some ideas, instead of having a line of text where Alleyn tells a character he has a theory, says "here, for what it's worth, is the line of country." and then there's a pause and the person he's speaking to has changed their view of him completely based on what he said that we didn't get.
When a country Morris dance (the dance of the five sons) goes awry, Alleyn is called in.
A mild love interest is provided by the smith's granddaughter, whose mother (the sons' sister) "married above herself", according to the old smith.
She is in love with the local padre's son.
I didn't find the characters as interesting as usual, hence only 3 stars instead of four, which I might have given it for plot/story.
This was a re-read, and as usual, I didn't remember who was the murderer; so I was able to enjoy it all over again.
English folk dancing...leads to MURDER.Well, I had to say it.
This is my first Ngaio Marsh and probably won't be my last.
A solid mystery made up of enough moving parts that you might catch a piece or two and still not know how it was done.
The opening was from the POV of a rather unpleasant character who is NOT the one to get killed later on, and I didn't care for it--it went on and on.
The plot revolves around a fictional example of English folk dancing, a sword dance in which a Fool is beheaded.
Lots of cantankerous, old-fashioned English characters are involved.
Odd folklore.It’s a very unusual story based on the survival of an ancient folk ceremony rather than a dance.
The dark ritual is convincingly built as the centre of greed and deceit with as baroque a selection of characters as anyone would wish to find.
They range from an accommodating barmaid through a vicar’s son who is a solicitor, a family of mummers who form the centre of the book to a beautifully drawn matriarch who presides over the central rites.
There’s also a German academic who accidentally finds herself as the deus ex machina of the story.
It’s well worth reading.
The separation of classes is very pronounced in this novel.
The local dialect reads like a mixture of something from a bygone era and country bumpkin.
It was difficult to get used to.
In several instances I had to take several minutes to decipher words and phrases, which was an annoyance and slowed down my progress a great deal.
The description of the most important event in the book, the dance, was complicated.
The book isn't terrible, but it just wasn't my cup of tea.
It's probably my least favorite of all of the Ngaio Marsh novels I've read so far.


First book of 2017!This one is fairly solid. I like the location - rural English village. And the Morris dancing stuff is interesting. Don't think I've read it before. And the dialect being written out helped rather than hindered, which is something of a feat. Solid addition to the series.And because I'm apparently giving this a try again this year (until I get distracted and forget about it, I'd imagine) - 2017 Reading Challenge: A book by an author from a country you've never visited (New Zealand)
#19 in the suave and debonair, Scotland Yard Superintendent Roderick Alleyn mystery series. Alleyn is detached, sophisticated and expensively educated.At the winter solstice, a traditional ritual dance becomes the scene of a murder. Inspector Roderick Alleyn must penetrate not only the mysteries of folklore, but the secrets and sins of an eccentric group of possible suspects who include a surly blacksmith and his 5 sons, a domineering dowager, and a not-so-simple village idiot. There are also many relationship cross currents among these people.
This is a charming mystery story set in an English village post WWII. Charming because March does a fantastic job of richly describing her setting, village life, and the era. I especially enjoy the class issues and medical beliefs and how they have changed. And the mystery is solid. A good book for light reading. I listened to it on audiobook, so the characters had full blown and diverse accents, which added to the pleasure.
An ancient local, traditional Winter Solstice rite conducted by the men of one family in the village - that ends with a beheading of the patriarch (not part of the ceremony). Who done it?Discoveries:-'cupboard sorrow'-'the silly season'-'stick chair'
Wel een aardig boek, maar vond het soms wat verwarrend omdat er zoveel personages zijn. Ook komt er niet echt diepgang in het verhaal, waardoor je er toch niet helemaal in wordt gezogen. Het verhaal was leuk, maar helaas niet heel spannend.
I listened to this book and I think that was a mistake. There are long sections of dialect that were hard to understand. It made the whole story confusing and the introduction to the murder long. Perhaps it would be better if read.
Ancient rites, almost, and pagan festivities take place in this book which is set in winter in a small northern village. A smithy and several sons perform an annual pagan dance at the home of an older, rather out-of-touch aristocrat. Alleyn and Fox are always in top form.
