https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/253264.Inherit_the_Wind
في حقيقة الأمر أنا شديدة التعلق بهذه المسرحيةفهي أول عمل مسرحي قرأته في حياتيومنذ ذلك اليوم الرائع عرفت ان المسرح سيكون إدمانيوأحد مباعث البهجة إلى روحيهل شكلت هذه المسرحية جزءا من وعيي؟لا أدريولكن أظن الجواب سيكون نعمفحداثة سني وقتها دليل على جواز حدوث ذلككنت في نحو الخامسة عشرلا أعرف عن التطور أكثر من مجرد أقاويل من حوليبأن هناك رجل مجنون يقول الإنسان اصله قردولكن حتى وفي هذا السنكنت أعلم أن الأمر أبعد من ذلكوأن هناك ما لا أعرفه بعد ------------المسرحية لا تشرح نظرية التطور أو تدافع عنهاوهي لي
في حقيقة الأمر أنا شديدة التعلق بهذه المسرحيةفهي أول عمل مسرحي قرأته في حياتيومنذ ذلك اليوم الرائع ع
And battle here is for free speech in America, fought out on the courtroom floor between Brady, the conservative counsel for the prosecution and Drummond, the agnostic barrister for the defence - two legal Goliaths.The authors seem to have written this play as a reaction to McCarthyism, and they have made it clear that even though it is based on the Scopes trial, it is not historical.
The real target of the drama is the audience, and this sequence is bound to set at least some minds in the theatre thinking.I think this is one play which should be revived - and not only in America.
Reading this book is like witnessing a debate with the resolution that reads:  Be it resolved, that men are descendants of monkeys and not created from the image and likeness of God.  I heard about this play when I was 8 or 9 years old. I was then in a Pacific island and it was late morning of a Good Friday and my mother told me to buy something from a store. In the Philippines, Maundy Thursday, Good Friday and Black Saturdays were the days of a year in the island when there was an eerie silence
However, on that Good Friday morning, I heard the local translation of this book, Inherit the Wind being dramatized over the local radio of our neighbor.So, when I saw a copy of this book last year, I said to myself that I would also read it during the Lent.
At that time, the Tennessee State Law prohibits the teaching of evolution as it runs contradictory to the Theory of Creation: that men were created from the image and likeness of God. So, the Monkey Trial happened and it was the basis of this book.
I reread the script after seeing the play.
(It is worth noting that this play is not about science vs.
all religion, but a religious subsect that takes the Bible as literal, or completely inerrant.) Though written in the 1950s about the 1920s Scopes trial, stage timing is "not too long ago." Lawrence and Lee say "It might have been yesterday.
It could be tomorrow." Indeed, the play is still fresh.
Note especially the stage direction of, "They are colorful small-town citizens, but not caricatured rubes" and Drummond's reaction to the journalist at the end of the play.Nice shout-out to the University of Chicago as Drummond presents his case.Bonus: In N.
3.75. Definitely blew my expectations out of the water. As a school book, I thought I would hate it, but that was not the case. Acts 1 and 2 were mindblowing, and it was only act 3 that pulled my rating down a bit. I really recommend this book.
في أول تجاربي مع الكتب المسموعة أحسنت في إختيار هذه الرائعة الأمريكية فقد إنغمست في الحدث بشكل مبالغ
“Inherit the Wind” is one of the few plays we have read as a class that I actually enjoyed.
The main reasons I liked this play is that it was about a real life experience that actually happened.
I recommend this play to high school students because it is a great way to show people that they should stand up for what they believe in and take pride in it.
This would actually be a good book for anyone to read and I would recommend it because I enjoyed it.
Whilst I quite enjoyed reading the play, I was disappointed with the content of it.
It was more a presentation of people taking up ready made positions on one side or other of the controversy for ill-explained reasons & then playing attack & defence with statements worthy only of the worst of the tabloids, or these days, of Prime Ministers question time.I also found the production notes at the end concerning the natures of the various characters very irritating.
If the authors of plays feel the need to explain what their characters are really like, then for me it points to very unsuccessful writing of the actual script.
I would say that this play is okay and I would recommend it to older readers who are interested in the law.
"Inherit the Wind" was based off The John Scopes trial in 1925.
The trial was about teaching evolution in the classroom and that a teacher had broken the law by teaching it.
This book was really about creation verse revolution and that the two ideas can co-exist.
The play had many symbols in the plot that resembled a thought or idea.

I think this play raises interesting ideas, was probably very revolutionary at the time it was published....
The two lawyers are actually really well-developed characters, as is most of the supporting cast, but Rachel, and Bert too, are just like these boring placeholders.
I'm impressed at how they were able to make him so sympathetic, but the death was melodramatic.There's a lot of great stuff in this play, but it could use an update - maybe it could be more subtle on those points.
The character development is quite interesting: Hornbeck is a fabulous villain - perhaps the most complex character in the play, and a good topic for book club discussion.
Because you can see the thought processes of the authors so transparently, it doesn't make my list of great American literary works (despite what the back of the book says), but I do think it's fun intellectual candy.
La commedia prende spunto dal Monkey Trial avvenuto nel 1925 contro un insegnante liceale che aveva avuto l'ardire di insegnare l'evoluzionismo di Darwin ai suoi studenti e condannato poi a pagare 100 dollari come condanna (esisteva una legge contro il creazionismo, senza parole..).Il libro è un condensato di witticism, arguzia, risposte graffianti e ironia..
E' GENIALE, io ogni volta che lo leggo ne rimango estasiata!!E' una storia che però fa anche un po' rabbia, perché la ragione e la scienza vengono offuscate dal fanatismo religioso..
La difesa di Drummond è incredibile e pur risultando estremamente convincente, nulla può contro la sorda fede..
His trial was a Roman circus.
وفي النهاية فيبدو ان داروين كان مخطئاٍ، لأن الانسان لا يزال قرداً...
Still packs a punchExcellent play revealing our society and howWe face and don't face, champion and ridicule bigotry. It's less a question of science and more a question of the right to think for yourself, to make up your own mind.
This play is kinda mean-spirited and condescending, one-sided in its presentation of its villains (as in an Ayn Rand novel).
(which is kinda how it is to be a marxist-in-cappyland);and—how not?—Drummond: What do you think?Brady: I do not think about things that … I do not think about!Drummond: Do you ever think about things that you do think about?
I kinda walk around all day thinking that last line in response to all the lumpenized antisocial nihilism.As an attorney, am completely sympathizing with Drummond’s lament that “someday I’m going to get me an easy case.”Text is equally concerned with the progress of science v.
Once again, the setting changed to the town square, where many of the residents of Hillsboro Tennessee were preparing a large welcoming ceremony.
Matthew Harrison Brady, a highly decorated Bible speaker, was coming to Hillsboro to prosecute the trial of Bertram Cates.
With that, Drummond closed up shop and got ready to leave Hillsboro in preparation for the appeal trial.
1920s governments at the time, however, did not like this change in thought from people and passed the Butler Act making it illegal to teach evolution in Tennessee public schools.Recommendation:I would recommend this drama to really anyone.
“Inherit the Wind” is about a teacher, Bertram Cates, who didn’t follow the Butler Act that stated evolution couldn’t be taught in a public school. Drummond defends Cates against the “top dog” Brady in the trial. The story takes place in Hillsboro, TN around the year 1925. Cates is fighting for his freedom to teach his students to think for themselves instead of just accepting one idea. I would recommend this drama to high school students, because they would understand it better and the vocabulary is more difficult. If you like learning about evolution, you would like this play.
What a thrilling, dramatic play!
I absolutely loved it; it's the kind of play you can see unfold in your head with startling detail, like you're sitting at the foot of the stage watching the whole thing up close.
I especially loved the courtroom scenes and the way it ended, with the two books in the briefcase, sitting side-by-side like it's natural for them to be together - God and Darwin.
I would give my left leg to actually see Inherit The Wind live and on stage; I imagine it would take quite a dynamic cast to bring this play to life properly.
We may be teaching this next year, so I gave it a look-see. Engaging and gripping. I love great courtroom dramas, and I can't see how anyone else couldn't either. Thing is, I looked into the background of the Monkey trial, and the fact seems even more interesting than the fiction.
I saw the film and the phrase 'he that troubleth his own house shall inherit the wind' when spoken by the aetheist lawyer stuck with me. This is a great introduction to the impact and leverage of primitive forces of emotion that can drive us all to do strange, foolish things.
Genius. It is how people speak. It is american. This play is like much of the poetry of Jim Morrison. It ends in ambiguity as if to let each man and woman decide what to think .
Personal Response: After reading Inherit the Wind , I thought it was a great play.
Plot: Overall this drama was based on an actual case called the Scopes Trial.
Rachel tried to get Cates to confess to his wrongdoing because Matthew Harrison Brady was going to prosecute him.
At the potluck, E.K. Hornbeck, a newspaper writer, told Brady he was going against Henry Drummond in court.
The town hated Drummond unlike Brady.
The year was important because that was when the actual Scopes Trial took place against the Butler Act. If the case did not happen, then the Butler Act would not have been questioned.
PlotBertram Cates was arrested for teaching evolution in Hillsboro, Tennessee while the Butler Act was in place.
The town found out that Henry Drummond, an attorney who took underdog cases, was going to defend Cates.
When the trial started, Brady felt confident because he had the whole town on his side.
When the witnesses are called at the trial, Brady twisted Rachel’s words and made Cates look even worse.
Since he had no witnesses, Drummond called Brady to the stand.
He knew Bertram Cates was going to lose, but he took his case anyway.
SettingThis book took place in Hillsboro, Tennessee.
I enjoyed the part when Drummond was questioning Brady on the stand as Drummond had some pretty good wisecracks for Brady.Plot Summary: Inherit The Wind  starts out by foreshadowing the battle that is to come by having two kids having an argument where Howard represents evolution and Melinda represents creationism.
Drummond is agnostic and believes people should be able to think on their own.Setting:The importance of the setting on the plot is that if the play did not take place in Tennessee, Cates would not have been jailed for teaching evolution.
I also like how the book provided an example of how fast people change their mind, just to be on the right side.Plot Summary: Bert Cates is a high school science teacher in Tennessee and he is accused of violating the law of teaching evolution in schools.
This means he never was a supporter of Brady.Setting: The book takes place in Tennessee, and this is relevant to the story because Tennessee has a law about teaching evolution in schools during the time of the book, which is in the early 1900’s.
Bertram Cates was put on trial for teaching evolution in Hillsboro, Tennessee.
She loved Bert, but she wanted him to change his mind about the trial.
Bertram refused to change, because he believed that children had the right to think.
Matthew Harrison Brady became the prosecuting attorney and Henry Drummond became the defense attorney.
Drummond wanted to change the Butler Law. He thought that the greatest gift to a human being was the ability to think.
Setting- The book took place in Hillsboro, Tennessee during the John Scopes Trial.
I think that the story contained more strong language than some books student read in school.
Until one afternoon when a highschool teacher made the decision to discuss the topic of evolution, against the Butler Act. This was an issue, because the town believed in Creationism.
This decision caused an uproar in the town and a trial to test his fate materialized.
Matthew Harrison Brady held the role of prosecuting attorney and Henry Drummond was the defense.
Bertram Cates was confident in his teachings and wanted to give his students the option of choosing for themselves what they believed.
SettingThis drama took place in Hillsboro, Tennessee in the year 1925.
The majority of the town believed in creationism.
I also thought  Inherit the Wind taught the reader how people should always be open-minded to new ideas, instead of the same old things.Plot Summary:Inherit the Wind  was about how Bertram Cates broke the Butler Act. The Butler Act stated, teachers could not teach evolution in schools.
Bert taught evolution in school, and he was arrested and imprisoned.The townspeople didn't like how Bert broke the law, so they called in Matthew Harrison Brady to put down the “criminal.” Little did the townspeople know, the Baltimore Herald sent E.K. Hornbeck and Henry Drummond.
The other main characters were Bertram Cates, Henry Drummond, Matthew Harrison Brady.
When Bert is put up on trial his defence attorney is Henry Drummond, a big whig from Chicago.
During the story Matthew Harrison Brady is brought to the chair to be questioned.
At the end of the story, Bert Cates is found guilty and is charged with a $200 fine.
In the end, Matthew Harrison Brady dies of a heart attack.Characterization: Throughout the book, many characters appear and make a huge impact on the story line.
One main character in the book is Matthew Harrison Brady.
Some other minor setting are the town square where people meet to rally against Henry Drummond and to support Matthew Harrison Brady.
