https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/531421.Bella_Tuscany
Ennchanting though Italy may be, it's hard to keep caring about the endless details of exactly what the author ate or what broke in the house or was planted in the garden. This book is often alleged to be a "meditation," which seems to be a polite term for "has no plot or real character development," and no amount of description of a sun-soaked landscape or excellent red wine seems able to overcome that.
I loved  Under the Tuscan Sun but was greatly disappointed by this follow-up. While the first book was beautifully crafted and each word seemed to be carefully chosen, this book seemed slapped together with little care. It's as though her editor said, "Hey, your first book is a hit! Give us more of that Tuscany stuff!" To which she promptly obliged, with this book and cookbooks and journals and a bad movie.
Italy is a beautiful country with a rich history. This story is largely frivolous. The description of a sunset as "old underwear pink" landed this book firmly in the giveaway pile.If you want to read a book that glorifies everything Italian (deservedly or not) then you will probably like this book. If glorifying everything because it is Italian may make you gag, skip this book.
If I could, I would write just like this.The book gives a beautiful, honest picture of real life in Tuscany, and after reading it I know that someone, somewhere, shares my love of Italy at a basic level.Mayes’ writing is wonderful and easy to follow.
I was thrilled with the experience of reading the book and will be more than happy if she chooses to put out another.My favorite chapter was her discussion about learning the language.
It’s nice to know there are other people out there who feel like I do!Verdict: A+
I really enjoyed "Under A Tuscan Sun" by the same author and was hoping for more of the same. This is really meandering and steam of consciousness though, and it really could have benefited from more structure, editing, and plot. Tuscany in the spring really does sound lovely though.
Frances Mayes lulls you into the restorative cycle of Italian life.
However, Mayes is an American undergoing an Italian education of sorts, and thus rightfully peppers the narrative with reflections and observations of an outsider looking into an existence she can never fully know.
Their lives back in San Francisco call over and over again, and it is this external awareness that makes this book perfectly bittersweet and a comfort to all of us self-doubting ex-patriots at heart.
Especially entertaining is the chapter on her difficulties with the Italian language: "Now that I have more understanding of Italian, I have greater occasions to make a bigger fool of myself." If the price of airline tickets are too high for you right now, read this instead(assuming you have read Under the Tuscan Sun first, so you know HOW this Californian English Prof and her hubby came to be in this situation...).
And don't assume that, because you saw the movie, you know the story.
Two entirely different stories.
I was appalled at the movie!
I love Italy!
It's amazing that a memoir set in Italy can make it sound boring, but I have to give up on this one.
Place names are thrown in one after another with no particular importance other than the author being able to say "I was there," and there is no depth.
A fourth of the way in and I have no idea who this author really is or what she's about.
She's bland.
The two stars are for the setting that could be an exquisite backdrop and some small bits of interesting garden information.
Mayes reminded me why I became interested in this genre in the first place. Sequel to her ubiquitous Under the Tuscan Sun, she describes her travels as the guide we all wish we could have should we have the good fortune to visit these places ourselves. I particularly enjoyed the topical chapters on gardening and cooking, and noted several pages in my own journal for future reference.
This book just goes on and on about nothing! The only think I learnt was you buy a lot of veg very cheap on the market in Italy.
Review coming soon!
I heard Under The Tuscan Sun read on XM's BookRadio a few years ago, and enjoyed it, So I was inspired me to pick up this title when I spotted it among the piles of books my mother rescued from her job.
I enjoyed the chapters focused on her observations of individual Italians she meets, and her sojourns to various local markets.
Three stars only, however, because I also found myself glazing over the parts of the book dedicated to the details of the endless renovations/repairs of her Italian countryhome and the development of its gardens.
Unfortunately I didn't like this book nearly as much as I did "Under the Tuscan Sun." I'm not certain how much of that is due to having read that book a long time ago, and how much because I found most of this book to be uninteresting/odd.
The daughter's wedding was nice, and parts of the middle are alright as well, but most of it read like bad diary entries that you wouldn't normally share with anyone.
There were more items of cultural difference that made me less interested to spend a long time in Italy.
I *might* re-read "Under the Tuscan Sun" at some point to see what I think of it now.
Not recommended if you like books with a plot, or characters, or action, or point really.
The only reason you should read this is if you live or plan to travel to Tuscany and want to get a feel for Italian life as seen through the eyes of someone very keen on gardening, cooking, and day trips.
She doesn't overcome anything, nor does she provide you with insight on anything more than which asparagus recipe she likes best.
I read the whole thing for a book club.
This should have been edited down into a couple travel articles at best.
I read it for the 2nd time and skipped a lof of pages.
Pity there is no map of her garden in the book ...Because that was the most interesting part, and the recipes of course.
Not all the trips she made with her husband, I did not like reading about those.+++++++++++It was like reading her other book, Under the Tuscan Sun, for the second time !
Not sure about the recipes, have not compared those yet.
However, it was good to read again about the interaction between people, the respect people have for each other in this country, her plans for her house and garden, etc.
Mayes' fantastic follow-up to the immensely popular Under the Tuscan Sun, this volume does not disappoint.
Imagine Italy, the sounds, smells, tastes and way of life.
Mates invokes the full extent of your imagination with the full richness and simplicity that life in Tuscany has to offer.
Your senses are immediately engaged with the taste of Tuscan cooking (including a number of delicious sounding recipes), the richness of good wine, architecture and art like none other in the world, and life as it was created to be in the beginning.
A must read for those who dream of life in the Old World!
Well, I did really like this book, maybe more than 3 stars, but not quite as much as "Under the Tuscan Sun".
It's more about her life in Tuscany but kind of episodic, here's when we went hither and yon and what we found/ate there, and then here's how to make some authentic Tuscan food.
Which is not as good when you're buying the ingredients from an American grocery store as if you can get them freshly-grown (even Farmer's Market food makes a noticeable difference!).
Anyway, I like the recipes, and the writing style too, and it's actually a fast read and worthwhile.
This book wasn't as polished as "Under the Tuscan Sun". It didn't seem tidied up, but had a very real steak to it- right out of the journals and onto the page without cleansing the raw impressions and thoughts of the author to please mass readers. This made it a bit uneven but that did not detract from the whole for me- perhaps even added to it for this type of book. I found the author to be more of a real person.
Well written but tiresome about food and plants. It read more like a series of newspaper reports, little articles about what the author did here and there and the many place names and such got a bit boring. Probably my fault because I should have got out a map to read along with the book (why didnt the publishers put in a map?). But I appreciated the poetry in her writing, the images and the background characters.
I really thought that I would enjoy this book since I have lived in Italy, I really didn't like the book. Not so much that I didn't like the book asI disliked the style in which it was written. It felt to me more like a series of snippets instead of a smoothly written tale of the author 's experiences. While I can certainly relate to the feel of Italy and Tuscany especially; and we certainly loved the people, I didn't finish this one- I just couldn't get into it.
Reading this book was like having a favorite movie and then getting so excited when they make a sequel--and the sequel just doesn't have the magic of the first one. I still love "Under the Tuscan Sun," but "Bella Tuscany" just felt like a travelogue to me. It didn't have the same charm or spark that the first book had. In fact, I didn't even finish it.
I loved this book; probably more than Under the Tuscan Sun. Her writing puts you right there in Cortona. I enjoyed it so much that my husband and I did a driving trip from Florence to Cortona, just so I could see the place that Moyes made me love.
In a word: beautiful.
Rich white lady spends half her time in Italy. Writes a pretentious book about " the simple life" and thinks that if she uses enough descriptive words it will hide the fact that she is a bad writer.
I enjoyed Under a Tuscan Sun, but this second story about one couple's life and experiences in Tuscany is even better. Makes me want to eat good food and drink good wine and slow down a bit.
I love to read France's Mayes books. She takes us on an adventure in all her books. Great read
Kauniita / mielenkiintoisia lauseita:Kehto kiikkuu kuilun yllä ja jo järki sanoo ettei olemassaolomme ole kuin äkillinen valo joka välähtää kahden ikuisen pimeyden välissä.
Kaikki tämä tapahtui ennen syntymääsi.
Selviä jälkiä jotka lopulta johtavat sinuun, sinun äkkinäisen välähdyksesi hetkeen.Tämä vesi on liian loistavaa, sipaisu hopeista valoa jossa ripaus ruusua ja kultaa ja tesseroita, ja hyvin, hyvin kaukana kuolemasta.
-- Ne kaikki sanoivat että Venetsian lumouksen salaisuus on kuolema.
Syntymässähän me kuljemme halki vetten.Kaukaa katsottuna gondolieeri on kuin unissakävelijä, gondolin musta siluetti alitajunnan vesillä unen voimin etenevä.
Edin perheen paikat, paikat jotka muovasivat heidät.
Hänen elämänsä ennen kuin hän tiesi kuka oli.
Well, today I was home sick, and since I had to sit in bed resting, I passed the time reading this book.
Not a bad way to spend a day, in my opinion.I love Frances style of writing.
The way she paints the landscape of Tuscany is a writing skill I envy.
Each chapter is segregated into what seems like smaller essays, all flowing together into one long essay, an ode to Tuscany and choosing a simpler kind of life when life becomes chaotic.
I suppose that's what why it took me so long to read this book.
A nice follow up to "Under the Tuscan Sun" and author Frances Mayes turns her Tuscany thing into a kind of franchise.
She is to Tuscany what John Muir was to the Sierras.
There are too many in life "travelling", getting their passports stamped, getting the T-shirt, and scratching off places on their bucket list.That is not Mayes, and that is not me.Mayes was not living full time in Tuscany as she was writing her earlier books.
She was toggling between two very different worlds, so I really appreciate how observant she was as she discovered Tuscany.
For some reason, I enjoyed this memoir much more than Under the Tuscan Sun. Perhaps I had too many preconceptions about "Tuscan Sun" 14 years ago, having just seen the movie version. The movie and the memoir have little in common, except the name of Frances' home in Tuscany, Bramasole. I have traveled in Italy several times. In this second memoir, Ms. Mayes transported me back to Tuscany, as well as to Sicily, Assisi, San Francisco, and Minnesota.I also learned that it's ok to fry red tomatoes. And, I need to use more fennel!
