https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7893.Carney_s_House_Party
I finished Betsy and Joe, and having done with high school (something of a relief) came to a natural break in the series.Meanwhile, there are three books that I have started and put aside to make way for the massive force that is Betsy-Tacy (the book that I'm currently reading aloud to my son doesn't fall in this category).
I am rather fond of my review from the last time I read this book, seven years ago.Review of May 21st, 2010:The close of Carney's sophomore year and the beginning of her junior year at Vassar bookend the events of the summer of 1911 in this wonderful, gentle, and funny book, which is an offshoot of Maud Hart Lovelace's well-loved semi-autobiographical Betsy-Tacy series.
I love that two of the three proposals we get in this series aren't actually proposals at all, but commands. You WILL marry me or else. It shouldn't work, but it totally does.This was adorable! Carney is so, so great and all the girls, and one thing I really appreciate about MHL is how well she writes different types of girls. She's not just writing the same character over and over again, they run the gamut, really, and it's so refreshing. Plus, Betsy and Joe!!! Betsy and Joe!!!!And okay, Sam is a pretty adorable baby hippo. I admit it. ;)
EVERYONE DESERVES THEIR OWN BABY HIPPO!!!
I loved the Betsy-Tacy books when I was growing up, but somehow managed to miss out on the Deep Valley series.
The novel begins at Vassar - where Carney, lifelong Deep Valley resident - has just completed her sophomore year.
In some sense, this book is about bringing the two parts of her life together - as represented by two very different sets of friends.
Carney is the most sensible of characters, far less flighty than my beloved Betsy, but she is also an appealing heroine - and this is a hugely enjoyable book.
It had sounded all right when Betsy had said it in her persuasive voice.
But it didn't now."What did you want to say?" Sam asked."I want to say, that if you had asked me to marry you, I'd have said no," Carney replied.For a moment Sam sat in stunned silence and Carney's heart misgave her.
First, she was afraid that she had hurt his feelings.
I love Carney Sibley with all of my heart, and THIS BOOK.
IT'S THIS ONE.True love is not giving your fiancee a ring right away because she's going to want you to pay cash for it.Also read: January 2011
Her fears, her hopes, her motivations- all pretty recognizable to me.Part of the problem with having Lovelace's books filed under "comfort reading" in my head is that I forget what a good writer she is, how she sees so keenly into people.
I like seeing Betsy through Carney's eyes, and I think Lovelace was very successful at showing us what the whole world looked like through Carney's eyes.
Sam is one of my favorite characters in the whole Betsy-Tacy series.
I like seeing how the childhood love of Carney and Larry plays out here.
So it seems that I have more in common with Carney than I originally thought. I adored this book! It was a wonderful companion to a childhood series. Edit, 10/17/10Just finished rereading this book. Oh, but it's wonderful. Lovelace has such a deep love of her characters, and since they're all based on her friends, it's no wonder why.
And knowing that this is when the author really grew up gives the book's setting so much authenticity!Anyway, Carney hosts a house party, where several of her best friends come to stay at her house for a month.
(His departure was a plot thread in an earlier Betsy-Tacy books, so it's nice to see it picked up here!) He and Carney have written letters to each other for years and she's always felt that before getting serious about anyone else, she needed to see Larry again and determine what was between them.
When I read through the Betsy-Tacy books for the first time, a lot of stuff seemed to be missing between books 8 and 9.
Then I read Carney's House Party ...
Which was amazing, because I really love this series ...
but it just didn't make sense until I read this book.Besides filling in the gaps, the story is beyond amazing.
And I love Carney ...
and all of Carney's family ...
and seeing Betsy and Tacy and everyone from a different perspective.I'd recommend this book to practically anyone, especially people who love the Betsy-Tacy series and want more.~Kellyn Roth, Reveries Reviews
This is only peripherally a Betsy-Tacy book - that's really marketing hyperbole (gee...
that's unusual.)However, it is a really good story.
Betsy and Tacy's friend Carney is done with her first year at Vassar, and heading back to Deep Valley for the summer.
In order to make sure that she has a chance to visit with all her friends, and keep her posh Easterner room-mate entertained during her visit, Carney arranges a house-party...This is a great example of my comfort reading.
It is sweet, and safe, and while not everyone in it is always nice, there is nothing scary or threatening.
Good story. Made me think of tradition and my childhood, fondly. The cover is deceiving as it is about college kids and not preteens or high schoolers, as one might guess. The better for it and, like I said, a nostalgic good time.
This was sweet and cute, and I liked the unpredictable ending. Carney is a tiny bit boring to me, though. I much prefer Betsy, although I have to disagree with her about the joys of embroidery!
Love it. Love it, love it, love it. 07/03/2015Yep. I still love it. 2015 Reading challenge: a book you can finish in a day. *Read: January 2012, 07 March 2015
This was the first book by Maud Hart Lovelace that I've read where Betsy was not the main character so I was not sure how I would like it. Happy to report that it was a true delight. To anyone who likes historical fiction, these books are truly illuminating as to what life was like for ordinary girls at the turn of the century (and there is a good sprinkling of historical references).
As to feelings, it is a nice surprise in this book that the practical and cheerful Carney, with her family's Vermont and Presbyterian background, can recognize so immediately the genuineness of the emotions that bring her to recognize her love for Sam. And I believe this is the first time that love (outside of family love) has made an authentic appearance in the Deep Valley books.
Hitherto, not even the relationship of Betsy and Joe has displayed this kind of maturity.The "love" aspects are realistic because Carney's House Party is full of sexual tension.
Ms. Lovelace signals this at the beginning with the description of the restrictions and rules of Vassar life.
I think they just weren't at my library and so I never saw them or knew about them.
So while this book was not about B-T per se, it's still in Deep Valley and features I guess all the regular characters (or, in the book's parlance, "the Crowd.") Oh my goodness was this ever an incredibly old-fashioned fascinating treat.
I especially enjoyed the 1911 fashions.
I looked at the first B-T book at the library last night and saw that Lois Lenski illustrated it!
Had I known that as a child I definitely would have read them and I'm sure enjoyed the friendship adventures of the girls.
Please don’t make me leave Deep Valley.
I know I didn’t love a couple of books in the middle, but reading Carney’s House Party, I fell in love all over again, and I never want to leave.Told from the perspective of Carney, the book opens at Vassar College, and I love the research Ms. Lovelace did into Vassar and its traditions (adult me was totally berating teenage me for not applying to Vassar after reading this).
The story then takes us to Deep Valley, where Carney hosts high school and college friends for summer hijinks.
This one is still relatively new to me, when I think how many times I've read it compared to the rest of the Betsy series.
Both Betsy and Joe make an appearance, too.
Focusing on Betsy's friend Carney, this story takes place the summer between her sophomore and junior year at Vassar, and finally solves the mystery of what happened with her and her high school crush Laurence.This is a lovely snapshot of summers in the midwest, month-long "house parties", and a glimpse into Vassar at the beginning of the 20th century.
This book was absolutely amazing!! I always have loved Carney in the Betsy-Tracy series but for some reason have never read her stand alone book. It did not disappoint!! Lovelace wrote her perfectly and completely different from Betsy which made me very happy! Everyone should read all of the Betsy-Tracy books, but do not skim out on her Deep Valley Books!
I adored the Betsy-Tacy books growing up but never read this sequel of sorts about Betsy's friend Carney and the summer between her sophomore and junior years at Vassar. It's a romance (and very much of its time with college girls getting engaged and making hope chests). But I like Carney and her sensible ways and it is lovely to return to Deep Valley.
It was so good to go back to Deep Valley again! I'd never truly appreciated Carney's character, but reading this book has changed that for me. She's a lovely person to read about and really enjoyed her story. Mrs. Lovelace is definitely an excellent storyteller.
Not as endearing to me as the Betsy/Tacy books, but fun to see some more from some other Deep Valley friends and to hear the back story on why Carney is married to who she is married to in the later books.
Although this book isn't part of the Betsy series, it contains a lot of the same characters. It was fun to read, and as with the other books, contains a lot of interesting details about daily life during that time period.
I absolutely LOVE this book. I know it's not technically a Betsy-Tacy book, but I read them chronologically, which means this is #10/13 in the deep valley time line. favorite so far. I love the old characters, the new characters, the growth, AH! just everything - I love everything about this book!
betsy-tacy
I love these books.
I think it was good
I liked this one much better than the Winona book- although I thought that for a series the age gap was pretty big. I also liked the connection with familiar characters- Winona and Betsy for two.
I loved the Betsy-Tacy books as a girl and it was a treat to revisit Deep Valley again!
Why did Vassar ever go co-ed? My kid read this and wanted to go there....but alas...
