https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/381704.Bergdorf_Blondes
I'm not against chick lit.
In fact, I indulge in them a lot of times --but this book was as stupid as stupid gets.
It was predictable and not even funny in the smallest bit.
The writing style is less than mediocre and it was a total waste of the 3 hours (that seemed more like an eternity) that i spent reading it.If I didn't have the obsessive compulsive NEED to finish books I've started, I would never have finished this one.
don't waste your time on this book.
There are much more books out there that are more worth your while.
This book was nearly offensive in its wanton display of greed, vanity and superficiality. It's almost embarrassing to even admit I read it, but as a follower of Sykes' Vogue pieces, I felt I owed her a bit of literary loyalty. Big mistake. This book, sadly, confirms all those horror stories you hear about "Park Avenue Princesses," and doesn't even have the decency to laugh at itself at any point. Sykes is a clever wordsmith, but the meat of this book leaves much to be desired....like actual content. Waste your time elsewhere.
She specifically warned me in advance that it was really stupid, but secretly a fun read in a guilty pleasure sort of way.
I know it was meant to be breezy and whimsical and fun but all it succeeded in doing was making me want to puke all over Plum Sykes and her $5000 handbags and all her spoiled NYC trust fund brat friends, and then throw the book across the room in disgust.
I think I still have this book laying around somewhere in my house, sorry Addie, I honestly have no problem returning it to you the next time I see you again.
Park Avenue princesses with ridiculous concerns, who plot how to get the best out of a sample sale at Chanel, Front Row Girls, muses, waiting lists for designer handbags, fundraisers to save 'whatever' and such wonderful and extremely quotable quotes that I was laughing out loud almost every page.The protagonist, known throughout the book as 'Moi' is a British girl who wants to be American, she escapes England, and a very snobbish American mother who is desperate to marry her to the Earl next door (in spite of the Chair Affair, due to which the families are sworn enemies), and comes to New York where she lives the 'Champagne Bubble' life of a Bergdorf Blonde(although she is a brunette who went to Princeton) with her best friend, the quintessential New York Park Avenue Princess Julie Bergdorf.
This book is a literary equivalent of a shot in the head. It may hurt as hell for a short time, but you get conveniently stupefied right away & can't care about anything afterwards. Read this at your peril.
(Review was originally posted on Alexa Loves Books)Bergdorf Blondes was a pleasant chick lit read that combined three of my favorite things - New York City, traveling to various exotic locations (including England) and a relatable protagonist who enjoyed shopping, beauty rituals and writing.Though it took a while for me to actually get into the book, somewhere in between the fourth and fifth chapter, I was hooked.
The author is a writer for a few major publications, so her writing was concise but filled with interesting details, and she had a strong voice telling the entire story (our protagonist moi).I like how the typical New York socialite was depicted, even though I'm certain that it was a little exaggerated.
I know this is one of those books you're not supposed to like because it's so girly and fashion here shooes there.
I had pretty low expectations on Plum Sykes, after reading some of the more well-known fashion-chick-lit books, but this was probably the best one I've read so far.
I think the word I'm looking for is an equivalent to warm/nice/friendly/happy/funny/charming and romantic.
I can't figure a work like that out, and I'm not even sure such a word excists..
But if you only ever want to read one fashion-chick.-lit, go for this one!
Rather than a female narrator called, say, Plum, we have a narrator called “Moi,” which is that much more intimate. Moi is quick to point out that she is not blonde, that she has a career, as a fashion magazine writer no less, and that she happens to be a conduit for the lives of the rich and blonde around her.  The tone is curious, more Teen Vogue than proper Vogue. Still, it follows American magazine protocol in being chatty, toothlessly catty and less than fully informed. This suits the narr
Moi is quick to point out that she is not blonde, that she has a career, as a fashion magazine writer no less, and that she happens to be a conduit for the lives of the rich and blonde around her.
As Moi sums up her love life: “I had somehow contrived to date one brute, one congenital liar and a professional lothario.”	Early on Moi offers a short list of reasons why it is better to live in New York than in London.
Because of this amazing new waxing thing that has never been heard of outside of New York, sex is referred to throughout as variations on the word Brazil.
A finished copy was provided by the agency for review.I have a huge love for some light fluffy reads and chick lit was one of my favourites to read when I was around 19, so I thought I’d give this a shot.
I honestly can’t believe the amount of acronyms she uses in the book.
She almost an anxiety attack planning her book club and in the end, they all just wanted the attention of the poor professor Henry.
I know this is fiction, and I know this is exaggerated for the book, but I still can’t believe some parts of this could be true.
How I Came To Own This Book: Gillian bought it due to the hype surrounding the novel.The Plot: The unnamed character (who goes by Moi) is your typical, irritating, self-obsessed upper East Sider in NYC on the hunt for a husband and all the other trivialities that make up 'that' type of woman's life - shopping, being seen, and looking great while doing it.
Ugh. In all the book was completely pointless and irritating - from the characters to the plot - and a definite non-recommendation on my part.The Bottom Line: A brutal read that I am still mystified on in regards to the level of hype it received.
This book is silly and fun. It’s not great “literature”; although it’s a PERFECT beach read. The characters are as real today as they were in 2004 and 1987. Plum Sykes writes about the world she knows. Ahhh, to be a Park Avenue Princess!
I went into Bergdorf Blondes hoping I was going to like it.
I got about 1/4 of the way through and I just couldn't take any more of the shallowness and greed of the characters.Why?
Where to start..maybe it was the main character deciding a fiance would make her skin look better.
Or it could have been one of the characters freaking out because someone gave her a COMPLETE set of Beatrice Potter book for her unborn baby..ungrateful much?
Sadly, people like this probably exist.
I couldn't even like the main character "Moi".
I can't say I would recommend this book.
Ok guys this one is a throw back for me since I originally read Bergdorf Blondes way back in the summer college days, but I just found it and re-read it again this week and now I have a blog, so ya know: review yay!
I LOVE LOVE LOVE this book.
Seriously, on the surface it's a light contemporary funny read.
But for those looking there's a biting commentary below the surface.
There's so many quotes in this book that got me through college and my early 20s it's bananas.
Frankly if you like contemporaries or romances you should need to read this book.
Predictable. One knows form the beginning that she will end up with Charlie or the Earl. Turns out Charlie is the Earl. and they lived happily ever after.There is no significant twist in the plot, she tries to commit suicide, but when you see there 200 pages left to read you realize she won't die.Overall impressions: good passtime
When I started reading this book it infuriated me!
Don't get me wrong, I was a suicide counselor for ten years and I more than anybody understand how serious suicide is, but this book made it so completely ridiculous it made the entire book make sense.
:) At this point I saw the absurdity the author was shooting for and began to enjoy the book.
The best advice I can give a person reading it is to not take it too seriously, it was never meant to be taken seriously and if you keep that in mind, you might just enjoy it!
It talks a lot about fashion and friendship (that revolves around everything material: parties, shoes, clothes, private jets, etc.)On the contrary, I don't really think it is an appealing book to everyone.
The story is a little bit on the shallow side, which I like for relaxing, because you don't get to think much.One of my critiques, though, is that there were a lot of abbreviations and slang terms used in the text that I wouldn't understand outright.
I may get the meanings through context clues, or through trusty old google.com, but I think it's one of the downsides of the book, 'cause I didn't really get to relate fully to the text.
I forgot all about this book..
I wish she would write more books like this.
I like sequels with the same characters transitions through life..
I get sad when some books end then excited seeing another story about them..
It was another easy book because the story was fun and i enjoyed her descriptive details.
If your into fashion magazines, exspensive clothes, and hearing about what the stars do or how they live, then youll enjoy this and alot of the books ive read...ive saved alot of money buying one book compared to 15 gossip magazines and 8 fashion magazines a month!!!
I thought it was a lot of pointless, designer name dropping. The storyline was hard to follow and I found the characters to be pathetic, shallow, and hard to relate to.
totally something easy to read and engaging, and really funny in a social-commentary-on-the-rich kind of way.
now at the end of the book, i really DID want to believe that charlie was different from the other guys, but while he definitely demonstrated some positive characteristics, i had to feel like we simply didn't know enough about him yet to really make a good decision!
how could i NOT just meeeeelt when charlie says at the end of the book, "sometimes i think you were made especially for me"?
It was meant for the happy-go-lucky and feel good viewers who simply wanted some escapist literature on a dreary day.I loved the way Sykes wrote this book because it felt like it was written from the prospective of a Park Ave princess.
I know it felt more real that way and it probably wouldn't have been as great without it, but had a hard time expecting the fact that she kept calling sex "Brazil", I thought a better word probably would have made it feel better and less weird and sketchy the whole time.
You wouldn't believe the dedication it takes to be a gorgeous, flaxen-haired, dermatologically perfect New York girl with a life that's fabulous beyond belief.
Honestly, it all requires a level of commitment comparable to, say, learning Hebrew or quitting cigarettes."Getting the hair color right is murder, for a start...."Such an enjoyable book and I loved the happy ending.I would def read more Plum Sykes books.I was amazed by how many people did not like this book.
I wouldn't want to read only Plum Sykes but I think her brand of romance is very charming, especially as it is not typical romance with every detail of sex described.
Blissfully self-interested and flush with the cheeriness of a New York socialite on a quest to snag the perfect P.H.
I'd say that she's better than Bushnell in terms of writing style since the book's characters aren't ruthless, they're oftentimes charming and witty, and their very self-indulgence comes across as more amusing than petty.
Be warned though; in as much as I liked the book for some beach time reading, there's no character growth.
Quoting Proust: "There is nothing like desire for preventing the things one says from bearing any resemblance to what one has in one's mind."Book Details: Title Bergdorf BlondesAuthor Plum SykesReviewed By Purplycookie
I felt my IQ dropping a few points with every few pages.This book was worse than "Bridget Jones' Diary" and on the same order as "The Devil Wears Prada".
She is a contributing editor at Vogue magazine, and a famous Manhattan "It" girl.
Also, this book is interesting as it belongs to an oeuvre of books written by former (or current) minions of Vogue Editor-In-Chief Anna Wintour.
The other famous book is, of course, "The Devil Wears Prada".
The book club guests were rich Manhattan socialites dripping in diamonds.
This book is the literary equivalent of empty calories.
I don't really want to discuss this book's merits (or lack thereof).
What I want to discuss is the Alpha-Beta peel.
All the characters in the book are obssessed with it and, having a bit of an obsession with skincare myself, I was intrigued.
After some minor investigation, I discovered that the Alpha-Beta peel does exist.
Several months later, I was shopping in Sephora and I happened upon an at-home version of the Alpha-Beta peel!
I would recommend this book ONLY to those of you who like this sort of thing.
Bergdorf Blondes is the tale of ueber-rich young ladies in New York City trying to snag suitable mates.This is the kind of book that I consider "a light bit of confection." Not much to it, not the most complex story line, but enjoyable enough and fulfilling as a "time waster."I was surprised, while reading some of the reviews on Goodreads, to see how much vitriole people had towards this book.
I can see where people with more reasonable lifestyles and better heads on their shoulders might find this book offensive to their sensibilities, but I guess I just didn't take it all that seriously.
The book was fun, whimsical, and knew well enough not to take itself seriously more than skin deep!The twist at the end was a good one and the author seemed to understand the need for a beginning, middle, and end of a book.
Nothing was too rushed (but again it was her first book!) but it was just sweet enough to make me smile and want to pass a good review of it on.I don't think that Ms. Sykes has or probably will create another book that tops this one, but that is okay by me.
Not my kind of book generally, but I had heard it was good and I bought it ages ago (like in 2004 or something) and figured I ought to read it.
It was a fun little fluffy book.
It read a lot like I imagine Sex and the City plays on TV.
It was about rich snobby girls living in NYC hooking up with different guys, travelling around the world, spending rediculous amounts of money on clothes and getting expensive clothes for free even though they can afford them.
God help me; a little bit of this goes a LONG way.
I quit halfway through this book.
What is kinda cute at first in terms of character quirks quickly becomes obnoxious and over the top.
Are there really people out there who are this shallow and pointless?
These women's lives are not to be envied at all.
How little and empty your life must be to only live on the surface.I don't mind girly books about fashion, dating, etc.
But part of the fun of that is getting to live through the characters, but these characters, I couldn't wait to get away from.
Fourth book read in my "gal about town" novels in NYC. I'm fascinated at how people with such wealth and seemingly sophisticated lives could be, in reality, such trash. Oh sorry, when you reach a certain income level, you are "notorious" or "eccentric." The narrator, referring to herself as "moi" was as irritating as the little girl euphamisms given for such acts as "going to Brazil." Worse yet, I saw the ending coming from a private jet across the Atlantic. Unlike "Save Karyn," where the protaganist grew up and learned something about herself, this character remained happily, hopelessly obtuse.
This is the dumbest, most shallow book ever. Thought it'd be a fun beach read. The only reason I finished it was because after I read the Frontier Airlines catering menu, this was the only reading material I had available. And the Frontier Airlines catering menu was entirely more interesting. Did you know they serve Evol burritos and cheese and cracker plates and give you some excellent cocktail mix recipes? There's also a new beer, Colorado Native. Looks good. I'll definitely try one of those before I EVER TRY A PLUM SYKES BOOK AGAIN.
