https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50.Hatchet
Though the story was compelling, very compelling, compelling enough that I finished it despite the compelling urge to throw it out the window, I don't think I could ever read it again.
This book was so repetitious, why so repetitious, I know not why this book was so repetitious, but the repetitions made me want to pull my hair out.
Bruce said he didn't notice it as much when he read the book, but when you read it, your mind kind of skips over things, things that might be repetitious, the repetitious things might have been skipped over that make you want to pull your hair out and throw the book out the window.
So when I was in the 7th grade, Mrs. Randall (formerly Sr. Mary Randall, an ex-nun) FORCED this pile of garbage upon me and the rest of my unsuspecting classmates.
boo-hoo :'( i'm scarred for life now!) and somehow his plane goes down in the wilderness of Canada (which I can admit is the scariest fucking thing I can possibly think of.
I'd rather be faced with the zombie apocalypse or a gang of mass murdering rapists than being stuck in the middle of Canada) so snot-face has to learn to survive on his own.
All I know is, this is the worst book EVER.
it turns out i love survival stories!!
or if they are at work, email-chat them!) and then there was a fire across the street from me (which is my number one all time fear) and the people in the building are so casual about it - there are two fire trucks in the street, and firefighters swarming everywhere, and i look in the windows and in two different apartments, there are people just sitting and watching and smoking cigarettes.
don't they care that their building is on fire??
i could read 400 more pages of this story.
3.5 stars I forgive you for eating the turtle eggs, Brian. Read for our classics readalong series! Discussion next Friday 5/29 on the blog.
If you see a man grimacing in pain, it could be a heart attack.
If this man is the pilot of a charter prop plane that you're flying alone in, you could be fucked.2.
And, having just been marooned in a plane crash, you could lack the proper facilities to expel the diarrhea within.
So, you could end up shitting your brains out in a cave.
Since the tender age of 9, when I glanced upon the pages of this book, I have had a fear in regards to shitting in the wild.
Fuck you, Gary Paulsen.
By the end of this novel, I totally realized why it is a Newberry Award winner.Hatchet is a story of survival.
I love reading books/watching tv shows and movies about surviving.
Brian starts out a boy who is emotionally lost at sea when his father and mother divorce, weighted down with the knowledge of his mother's infidelity; and finds that what seemed like tragedy and the end of his world will not conquer him.
We have to be strong and fight to save ourselves, whether it's physically, mentally, or emotionally.Although this book had a very shaky start, I do have to agree that this is a winner.
In shock, without food or water and alone in the north woods of Canada, he had only his wits and a hatchet as survival tools.Brian comes face-to-face with some pretty scary and dangerous creatures of the night.....and day....that made for a great learning experience for him, and a few Oh No!
The constant swarms of mosquitos and black flies alone would have done me in, not to mention the skunk and black bear encounters.....just to name a few.I really would have loved this story as a youngster and even enjoyed it as an oldster.
Great "children's" adventure/survival story!
Who was struggling to accept the recent divorce of his parents, which was something that multiple kids in our class were going through, and that the rest of us feared.
Seriously, what middle school kid would actually know what to do if they were dropped in the woods, alone, with no supplies and no tools except for a hatchet?
One thing about kids, though; they don’t know enough yet to doubt their ability to survive anything.
If you’re a parent, you should definitely get this book for your kids.
If you’re still a kid at heart and have never read this, track down a copy.
Despite some of the repetition getting annoying from time to time, Hatchet is an engrossing story of survival for a young boy unfortunate enough to endure a plane crash to become stranded in the Canadian wilderness.
The author even ends the narrative of the story saying that if Brian had been unlucky enough to be stranded during wintertime in the Canadian wilderness, he very likely wouldn't have survived at all.
Not sure what I would have done in his circumstances, but I see the point that the chances of shelter like that would have been few and far between.
he learns how to survive, he fends off cretures such as skinks, porcupines, bears, and mooses; he is able to be keep himself from starvation by findinf food among trees and the creatures of the wild such as fowls and rabbits and fish.
he still survives, but when he goes outside, he sees that the plane he flew in was flipped up.
he then feasts on packs of food and drink from the survival pack.until a plane comes and lands in the lake.
it seems like one of the stories that you know you can learn from if youre ever in brians situation.
The writing just flows and you're constantly worried about Brian. Having to survive with nothing else but a hatchet and the clothes on your back can't be easy. I loved seeing how innovative his brain worked. Making tools from his environment. It was super impressive for a thirteen year old boy. I practically flew through the pages.
This is a great book.
It's a good adventure story for early teens.
I think it should have won the Newberry Medal for 1988 and so it goes.
Brian has to survive in the Canadian Woods on his own for a summer.
He learns to make fire, shelter and hunt for fish and birds.
There is also a divorce theme going on as Brian's parents have recently split.
This is your typical survival tale.
Brian does face some harsh environments and he learns to be tough physically and more importantly - mentally.
I will read more of the Brian Saga.
I.love.this.book.Seriously, I read this maybe in fourth grade? It was definitly in elementary school, because I remember it was at the same time that we we doing "survival skills"* in Girl Scouts. Not that I ever wanted to be trapped by myself in the wilderness, but I spent a lot of my time in my backyard pretending to find flint with my sister, and starting imaginary fires to keep warm. In winter we dug ourselves igloos. I always went camping with my parents, so this book started a lot of Q&amp
It was definitly in elementary school, because I remember it was at the same time that we we doing "survival skills"* in Girl Scouts.
Not that I ever wanted to be trapped by myself in the wilderness, but I spent a lot of my time in my backyard pretending to find flint with my sister, and starting imaginary fires to keep warm.
I had been looking forward to these skills for quite some time, finally girl scouts was going to teach me what I wanted!
For the love of God CUB SCOUTS get real knives.
Hatchet is a book about a thirteen year old boy, Brian Robeson, who goes through many experiences that ultimately gets him stranded in the middle of the Canadian wilderness.
I found there was quite a few run on sentences and he brought up "The Secret" way too many times.
By the end of the novel study, I was ready to throw this book into the middle of the Canadian wilderness.Am I the only one that thinks you shouldn’t give a thirteen year old a hatchet?
The author described other emotions Brian felt when he was alone in the forest like hopelessness, desperation, and hunger.
I wondered “If I was in that situation, what would I do?” Although I think I would lose hope in these situations, I will get myself together and try my best to keep my self from negative emotions and hunger.
I am still young, there will be a lot of difficulties I will be facing in my life, but I think as long as I have faith in myself, I believe I can overcome a lot of challenges and achieve my dreams.
I have to say i was surprised by how much i enjoyed it even though it definitely held some major flaws.The writing style is one of those flaws; i did not like it.
I’m a 21-year-old woman with blonde hair, Blonde hair that’s as golden as the sun, that’s the colour of my hair, blonde.” Can you see how aggravating that can become when reading?
He was a very adept 13-year-old boy going through some real struggles in his life not only caused from his plane crash.
I definitely enjoyed it but because of the writing style, i don’t think i would read another book by this author again.
Both the details of what he is doing to survive, and the psychological changes he goes through in his attempt to survive are believable, interesting, and illuminating.There is a second thread in the book which is him processing his parents' divorce and in particular "the secret" which is that even before the divorce he saw his mother kissing some other guy.
Survival part gets 4.5 stars; his relationship with his parents gets 1.5 stars (my overall is 3.5 because the survival stuff is dominant).
The idea of learning wilderness survival with nothing but a hatchet and my own wits prickled the pores of my baby-smooth chest with visions of man-hair, tufts and tufts of it, more than I knew what to do with, for after finishing a book about a boy-turned-man's hard-earned survival in the rugged wilderness surely I myself would become a man (I confess to having the same thought at least once when re-reading it at twenty-seven).
The book itself holds up as a taut, economically told story, no real flourishes to speak of, and yet when my brother read the first chapter, he woke me up to tell me it was weird.
Friggin' awesome. My 3rd grade teacher read this book aloud to my class, a chapter a day, and I remember being absolutely enthralled every single day. She read it to us right before first recess, so whenever that day's chapter ended with a cliffhanger we had the whole recess to discuss what we thought was going to happen next (and act out our own renditions of the time Brian got attacked by a bear).
Stranded following a crash landing in a remote stretch of forest south of the Canadian border, teenaged Brian must make do with little more than naked intuition and his trusty hatchet to survive.We've heard it said that necessity (and military advantage) is the mother of invention.
While young readers may draw inspiration from Paulsen's Bildungsroman, it's doubtful anything here will prepare you for actual survival in the wilderness, hatchet or no.Paulsen isn't a lyrical writer by any stretch, either, often using repetition of common themes and emotions to carry the narrative.
I had just read “The Life of Pi” a few weeks ago and enjoyed it immensely despite its otherwise relatively boring, dialogue-less narrative – one that can be expected from a book about a shipwrecked teenage boy (albeit with a Bengal tiger for company).
This children's book, Hatchet, had a similar plot: thirteen-year-old Brian Robeson was on his way to see his father in Canada when the single-engine plane that he was riding on plummets to a lake in the Canadian forests, and he is forced to try and survive on his own – with only the hatchet that his mother had given him for company (if you could call it that).
Sometimes you read a famously classic book and it is such a disappointment. This is not one of those times. This book is amazing! Its a wonderful survivalist tale of a young boy who changes not only physically but emotionally during his time alone in the northern woods after a plane crash. His bravery and ingenuity surprises himself even more than the reader. 😊
Gary Paulsen writes in only two emotions: fine and vomit-y. Someone may want to tell him that there are other ways to provoke a response in a reader than going right for the gut, so to speak. This book could have done with some fear and suspense, perhaps some gratification, depression, or joy. I do not mind a tragedy, nor do I balk at watching the man beaten down. I am a fan of Chekhov's. If your idea of suspense is mosquito bites on your nipples, meet your Stephen King.
I love this book! This is the 4th time reading it and I still love it. It starts off pretty quick and my favorite aspect of it is that events go by fast enough to not get boring, but not too fast. You see the character progress into an almost different person. I would say if you like survival this is a need to read.
Especially at a difficult time in his life--3 months after his parents' divorce--and when he's about to leave her for a little while to visit his dad?
It's like she's saying, "Hey, son, I pretty much don't like your dad anymore, so I'm going to give you, umm, this nice, little, umm, gift.
No mom would randomly give her son a hatchet as a going-away gift, especially when he's about to board a plane.
But if it weren't for his mom giving him that hatchet as a going away gift, then he wouldn't have survived.
So when I added this, I vaguely recalled the title, and I swear, I have definitely read it, but what I thought it was about was a boy being stuck under the snow following an avalanche (it turns out the book I was thinking of is apty named Avalanche by Arthur Roth) but anyway, that's not what it is about, and I really don't remember this book at all.Hatchet I definitely read in middle school at the instruction of my librarian (we had a sort of once-weekly class in the library to introduce us to the already anachronistic card catalog, and maybe to encourage us to read).
Plot - 14/20 Characters - 15/20 Creativity - 15/20Writing - 16/20 Pace - 8/10Ending - 8/1076/100 = C+ 3.5/5 starsI enjoyed this book but it wasn't anything special in my opinion.
Wasn't bad but didn't blow my mind or anything.
I was completely content in putting and down to do other things, wasn't gripped at all...
wait on second thought Brian ends up dropping the Hatchet in the water.
That sense was intense and gripping besides that I found myself just along for the ride.What I'd read this book for: if you're looking for a short and easy read.
3.5 StarsThis was a re-read of a book I was forced to read in middle school.
Reading it as an adult, I definitely think it's a great book and a good adventure story.
To Build a Fire Meets Castaway (minus Wilson) is what was running through my mind as I'm reading this story: 13 yr old Brian is in a single-engine airplane on his way to his father's for the summer when it crashes into the Canadian wilderness.
I love reading these stories, but they also give me a bit of anxiety since I always try and put myself in that situation.
I think, "What would I do?".
I originally read Hatchet sometime in elementary school, and I loved it. I couldn’t remember much about it though, so I went into in this time not sure what to expect. I did like it, but the writing kind of bugged me. It has the sort of simplistic writing that I don’t much enjoy as an adult, but the story itself is pretty good.
ok I read this like 8 years ago but I remember it pretty well? it's not bad but survival books aren't my thing so this was kinda boring
