https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/94813.Dark_Guardian
5 Dark Angel StarsFirst read July 2012 Reread January 26, 2016Reread Feb 3, 2017*Spoilers* "I am your lifemate, young one. You have no idea what that means, and you are not Carpathian, so I expect a certain amount of resistance from you." Lucian rubbed his chin over the top of her head. "I promise you I will be as gentle and as patient as I can, but I cannot wait long for you. The emotions I am feeling do not tame the wild beast within me."-LucianDark Guardian is the 9th book in the Dark series
This is Lucian Daratrazanoff and Jaxon Montgomery's book.
This book has an amazing prologue that gave an in depth look into both Lucian and Jaxon's history.
Take the time to get to know me, Jaxon.
Lucian takes his time to get to know his lifemate, and does everything he can to make her happy.
Lucian accepts Jaxon for the fighter she is and doesn't try to change her and I love that.
I love that Jaxon and Lucian are a true team.
I can't wait for the lesson.-Lucian and JaxonI love this book.
"I love this, Lucian.
After 70% of the audiobook I couldn't keep listening.
The main characters are brainless and very simple minded.
It was painful to me how Jaxx couldn't make a logical or rational decision.
I have read several books of this series by now, and although I enjoyed the first ones back when I started reading romance, right now I have more experience and thus I have started to see the stories in these books differently.
They have become more blah in my mind, kind of tiresome and quite chauvinistic.
Hence, I have decided to stop reading this series and Christine Feehan altogether.
He didn't quite know what to do with her, but was deeply in love with her from the beginning.In Jaxon, I can see the seeds for the heroines in the Ghostwalker books.
I couldn't help but love her.Lucian is just as irresistible as all the Carpathians are.
So I have to say it was nice that Jaxon was trying to watch out for him, and helped him kill vampires.Although the Carpathian books definitely have a certain formula, there are gems of uniqueness in each book that make them irresistible to this romance fan.
(I really wish I knew how to add pictures because I could express my feelings better!)Anyway, now I will explain my ridiculous statement above.This book was cruising along at a 3 star because the heroine was so annoying and I was bored silly with her antics.
Because I read the last book where he tried to get his brother to kill him because he could go on no more and Jesus was never mentioned.
Like Lucian, or any Carpathian male, would let a woman participate in a battle with vampires.
I am very upset that the author could not come up with a better story for Lucian.


If you know this series, you know what to expect: an overbearing Carpathian male and a semi-feisty heroine who talks a big game but usually doesn't follow through to the end.
She often 'softens the blow' by having the h confused and wanting the H because of the other-half-of-your-soul factor involved and/or the H bending over backwards to compromise.
Even though it ended up being silly at times in regards to Luc, until the "i told you so" bit, I guess her heart was in the right place.There is a lot of repetition.
I can safely conclude that this series is going down the drain, because this was seriously shoddy work.Having heard about the legendary hunter Lucian, with this amazing hero status as being one of the two most powerful Carpathian males, I was expecting so much.
It was just supposed to boost her worth, like guys found her attractive despite what she thought.There’s really no plot to any of these books, and that’s what I hate, that she wasn’t able to come up with a more exciting story to her amazing creativity with the whole lifemate concept.
Dark Guardian is the story of legendary Carpathian hunter Lucian and his lifemate Jaxon.I really liked this story.
Jaxon (Jax for short) is a tough-as-nails, driven cop, and Lucian is the twin brother of Gabriel from book 8.I really enjoyed the human element in this book.
The human predator that has stalked Jax her entire life long is a former Navy SEAL.
He is well-trained and fixated on Jax, and has dispatched everyone close to her.
His threat is very real and continues throughout the the entire book.Of course, the intense emotions between Jax and Lucian are as good as they get.
The first time that I attempted the book (>1 year ago) I stopped at about 50%, a point at which Jaxon was still denying that Lucian could possibly have supernatural abilities or that she could be his lifemate—even though she had by then witnessed countless demonstrations of his abilities and had already become a Carpathian herself.Even though Lucian was amazing in his strength, abilities, and his long history of loyalty and self-sacrifice, his constant, seemingly emotionless and effortless way of speaking his desires into being (like destroying enemies by merely telling them they would cease breathing) made him appear a somewhat flat character with whom I could not relate much.
Jaxon’s constant denial of what she witnessed and experienced (fully 75-to-80% of the book) was annoying to me.All of that said, I am clearly in the minority, so if you enjoy Feehan’s protective, lonely, Carpathian heroes, you may love Dark Guardian.
The heroine's name alone was jarring and irritating - almost like she was deliberately given a masculine name to offset the ridiculously stupid abuse Feehan subjected her to.I don't know where to begin with Lucian.
It is almost like she wiped the slate clean with his character from Book 8.
She completely made him modern but wanted to feel old fashioned by merely using the words "old world" and "old fashioned" in describing him to offset the sudden change in his speech pattern from the previous book.
All she's succeeded in doing was confuse me and make me think she is schizo while she writes.
Now I think it is just one big schizophrenic clusterfuck.
Loved Lucian's story! He deserved some happiness. This was a great read!!
All this was because of a psycho that fixated on her and she ended up having to live her life pretty much alone outside of work because anyone she became friends with got killed horribly.
Jaxon could never use her training in the special forces so she became an excellent police officer who's known to have uncanny instincts.Lucian is an ancient Carpathian male; Carpathians are born vampires with abilities like shape shifting (to any form, even mist), magic spells and psychic powers.
Lucian was a very unusual Carpathian male...they all want to make their lifemates happy but I'm not sure how many others would actually willingly work with her to fight vampires.
Finding a lifemate was not the difficult part of his newest challenge, it was to convince a human women to become a part of a new existence.
Finding that each had a special gift for seeking out the monsters (human and vampire alike), they might be able to strike a balance between the two that allows Jaxx her own way to protect and serve while Lucian still follows his way of dispensing justice.Book 9.….
Vampires have come to the city too, drawn by the promise of a lifemate, and it's in Jaxson's nature to protect everyone, including Lucian.This one reminded me of Dark Magic in that Lucian is a typical Carpathian male, and a rather condescending one too - he's impressed by Jaxson's ability to figure things out, as if all women are stupid.
And Feehan really needs to learn - or at least picture - how bodies come together, because some of their feats are impossible, even for Carpathians.
Ahhhh, this was such a great read!
Lucian is a fantastic hero and virtually unstoppable.
I also read, DARK LEGEND, the previous book in the Carpathian series, which is mainly about Gabriel.
But Ms. Feehan devoted so much attention to Lucian that by the time I finished it, I couldn’t wait to read Lucian’s story in DARK GUARDIAN.
Lucian is probably one of my favorite Carpathians, although I really liked Mikhail in DARK PRINCE.
Initially, she has a hard time accepting Lucian and who he is (and who wouldn’t), but she comes around in the end.
Book 9. Online library MP3 download to my cellphone. This book is Part 2 (after Book 8) and involves the other twin, Lucian Daratrazanoff (brother of Gabriel). I really liked this one! Of course that means a more complicated plot, character development and of course, moral dilemmas! Lucian and Jaxon Montgomery are the main characters. Jaxon is haunted by a sick and abusive stepfather who has killed everyone close to Jaxon. Lucian has had to convince his twin that he had 'turned.' It was all a ruse to keep Gabriel safe.
For the first time in a Carpathian book the heroine got on my nerves.
I'm not sure it is actually the character or the way the narrator portrayed her but she is so WHINY!!!!
Yes she could be brave when it came to fighting but the rest of the time whine, whine, whine.
I understand she had a lot of changes to make and they are by no means easy but she really was getting on my nerves when coming to grips with it.
Oh and I did not care for the outcome with Drake, I agree with Jaxon, "That's it?".
Love Carpathians :)amazing how they can shape shift & almost seem invincible at times.
I love Lucian and Jaxon!Badass hunter finds his lifemate, who turns out to be a badass cop. A perfect match. I loved how he helped her through the challenges she faced. I loved that she was so sweet and didn’t let that monster make her hard and cold. This is my favorite book so far. But I’m pretty sure I’ve said that quite a few times already. :DI am so loving this series and question my sanity in waiting so long to read it!
We learn a bit more about him here, but the main character is really Jaxon.In Legend, when they're trying to save Lucian, Francesca tells him he has to live for his lifemate, that she's out there and that she needs him.
Cause every time she does, he shows up and kills them.Jaxon is of course psychic, she knows when things are going to go bad - a really helpful talent for a cop.
She ends up in a shootout and almost dies.Lucian saves her, of course.The stepfather obviously doesn't take kindly to Jaxons rich fiancee, and comes after them.
she avoids any kind of relationships whether it's friendship or love due to the fact that the villain her stepfather Drake murdered her family and murders anyone she cares about or even interacts with on a friendly basis.
I couldn't for the life of me remember the author or books, but knew I'd read multiple of them earlier in life.
So she was unknowingly forced to drink someone's blood, and every time she questions him and his actions, he diverts her mind to something else- he forbids her her usual life- even the language the author uses is vaguely creepy (words like "force" or "holding her neck with his hand").
Next time someone that lives very close to me gives me books that come highly recommended, I'm going to remember this experience and just say "no thanks".I find Mrs. Feehan's writing style difficult to embrace and extremely inconsistant.
The previous books wanted the readers to believe that Gabriel and Lucian were the strongest and most knowledgable being in existence, yet one shot almost killed Lucian in this book while Jaxon shot one ghoul 3 times in the heart, twice in the head and her co-worker shot that same ghoul two additional times...and seven bullets later...it still kept coming.
What I loved most about this book and what makes it the best so far for the emotional impact.
This is the book with the emotional tug to your heart.
Yes, I am a whimp and I cried because of Jaxon's troubles as a young girl and the sacrifice that that Lucian made for what he remembered to be LOVE for his brother ...
OMG I love Lucian and Jaxon!This is yet another book where I wish I didn't have my "Only God is a 5 Star Rule".
LUCIAN) and my girl Jaxon!
I have mixed feelings about this book.
Yes he was all caveman and forced his will but thats just what they do.
And he seemed to feel guilty when he did it and the only times I remember him doing it was when he wanted Jax to drink from him.
maybe thats wrong.
But if thats the case then he's better than the rest of them.
She has a shitty childhood.
But her way of coping with everything was so freaking annoying.
That just annoys me.
Honestly Lucian kind of got stuck with a shitty life mate.
thats just embarrassing.
He has also hung on for so long and worked so hard to save his brother that I was really hoping that he would find someone that would respect him and love him as much as he deserved.
While she hides from things that she finds hard to believe Jaxon doesn't really stay hidden.
This story is really about two people that have had to be alone all their lives finally finding someone that understands them and keeps them from the dark place in all of our souls.
I also loved that Jaxon and Lucian get married in a church at the end of the story.
This is the story of the legendary ancient Carpathian Lucian, twin brother to Gabriel (whose story was book 8) who had given up ever finding his lifemate.
Last minute hope given by his brother’s wife Francesca, who tells him that his lifemate exists and he will find her, he goes to America where he meets her…Jaxon Montgomery, a hard working, tough cop with a traumatic child and is now being stalked by an evil serial killerLucian, gorgeous and seductive begins helping her overcome her trauma and loneliness.
He promises to protect her.He shows incredible gentleness and patience as he tries to bring her over to the Carpathian world.
It’s like you keep meeting more members of this incredible Carpathian family.
Jaxx is an idiot.
A total, complete, TSTL idiot.
She refuses to listen to the answers to the questions she asks.
She refuses to believe what she's seeing with her very own eyes.
She refuses to accept logic.
But she refuses to believe he could take out a nutty bonkers Navy SEAL?
Yup, she's an idiot.I don't like one single thing about this story or the characters by 29% and the last 10% was spent praying it would get better so I wouldn't have to give up at 1:30am.
Totally dropped the ball on this one.
Dropped it on a sharp metal spike.
I am now officially stating my intent to stop reading the Carpathians series.
By declaring it like this, I hope to finally give up all hope on the series.I believe I enjoyed the first book, but the rest, not so much.
It is in every book on just about every 10 pages.Those Carpathians have so much power and few limitations.
I'm not sure why she even throws enemies in the books too.My new mantra: "Just because a book is part of a series, does not mean I must finish the series." Let us see how well I do with that.
