https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10505.History_of_Beauty
Reading Eco’s study On Beauty feels like visiting a Temple with very many chambers.
If a god creates beauty, then what is this god?
Or is beauty really created by the subject?
To what extent is it relative and needs its own context to shine out.These are many of the questions addressed by Eco as they were formulated by thinkers, and it is his anthology of texts, from Theognis and Plato to critics from the 1950s, going through Plotinus, Suger, Hildegard von Bingen, Dante, Alberti, Gracián, Hume, Kant, Goethe, Diderot, Baudelaire, Foscolo, Burke, Wilde, Pater, Duchamp amongst very many others, that form the backbone of this book.
Undoubtedly the publisher shot that title down and stuck History of Beauty in its place.
And if nothing else, it is encouraging to see a major modern thinker engaging aesthetics.
That is rare enough to be worthy of attention and time.Weaknesses: This book has two major weaknesses, the first is editing.
If there is no ultimate Beauty, and it's all relative, why should we be bothered to read a book about it?
But it would be more worth reading if Eco had articulated his own philosophy of Beauty and then talked about it in the context of aesthetics through history.
Even if I agree with most of the reproaches this book received (that it is more a guide than a study, that it is more a triumph of compression than of clarity, that it is too eclectic and so on) I have to say I really enjoyed it.Is this a consequence of my great admiration for Umberto Eco or of my dilettantism in art, I'm not sure (and I won't dig, so back off!).
It is a book that is not based on artistic criteria of beauty, but the beauty marked by time, by the concepts, for what it was and was considered beautiful in every season.I think the author exceeds too much the beautiful setting, in keeping with the beauty.He didn't convinced me.Sorry..I almost give it up..It was only funny, cross myself with the various interpreters of the history of art ... But very little, very little.
It's not really a book you read cover to cover, and I guess some of the disappointment many people may feel comes from them picking it up and reading it like that. It is a dictionary a reference, it should open people's mind up to further investigate and research. As someone said the book does reflect his personal opinions and musings, but just by flicking though the book many times I have found myself diving deeper into periods, artists, works of art, techniques etc.
What makes us think a Rolls looks better than a Datsun?
Can something tragic be beautiful?If you've read Eco before you know he's good at picking up patterns, memes, ideas and how they mutate with time and context.
So this is Eco the non-fiction writer tracing society's concept of beauty from pre-historic time to the 21st century, richly illustrated with artworks and architecture and quotes from poets, philosophers and novelists ranging from Plato to Wilde.
Rather brilliant.Plus, obviously, the book itself is beautiful.Now I'm even more intrigued by the sequel On Ugliness; Eco has said that after writing the first book, he realised he'd been writing about standards, about conformity.
Güzellik nedir ne değildir hakkında kapsamlı bir araştırma Güzelliğin Tarihi.
Fakat işlenişden mi yoksa dağınık gibi görünen farklı kronolojisinden mi bilemiyorum bir akıcılık sağlayamadı bende.
Yer yer bildiğimiz tanımlamalar ve gerçeklerle karşılaştım.
Bazen ise bilmediğim ama tahmin ettiğim bazı doğrularla.
Genel olarak ise beklentimin altında ama okumaya da değer bir kitaptı.
Tabi kabul etmek gerekir ki bu çalışmanın çok ama çok önemli bir öğretisi var.
Geçmişten günümüze gelindiğinde güzel sanatın nasıl bir sanata evrildiğini daha doğrusu kötüleştiğini gösteriyor.Kitapta özellikle son paragrafın ilk cümlesini çok beğendim; "geleceğin kaşifi 20.
Yüzyılı ve daha ilerisinin kitle iletişim araçlarının ifşa ettiği estetik idealini artık belirleyemez."
Μια εμπεριστατωμένη μελέτη της προοπτικής της Ομορφιάς στο πέρασμα των αιώνων. Μια πανοραμική απεικόνιση της αντίληψης του ανθρώπου για το Ωραίο. Μέσα από την τέχνη και τη φιλοσοφία. Ένα ταξίδι στον τρόπο σκέψης των ανθρώπων για ένα από τα σημαντικότερα αγαθά της ζωής. Η Ομορφιά μέσα από τη θρησκεία, την καθημερινή ζωή, τον έρωτα, τη διαστροφή, ακόμα και μέσα από την Ασχήμια.Μια καταπληκτική έκδοση των Εκδόσεων Καστανιώτη, με υψηλή ποιότητα χαρτιού και εκτύπωσης, άριστες φωτογραφίες έργων τέχνης και πάρα πολλά αποσπάσματα κειμένων.Ένα κόσμημα για τη βιβλιοθήκη μας, με την υπογραφή του ανεπανάληπτου Ουμπέρτο Έκο.
Obsažné, kvalitné, zazdrojované spracovanie. Musím ale priznať, že to bola pre mňa nuda a “len” zopakovanie vedomostí z výšky. Bodaj by som ju ale bola bývala prečítala pred štátnicami z dejín umenia!
ترجمهی فرانسهی این کتاب رو گرفتم از کتابخونه و دلم گرفت از این چیزی که الان به فارسی هست. حجم کتاب سه برابره و پر از تصویره. یه سری تابلوی تطبیقی ساخته اولش از همهی ونوسها و آدونیسها که خودش به تنهایی جذابه. درسته که خیلی از عکسها قابل چاپ نبودن اما من نمیدونم چرا تابلوهای تطبیقی مریم مقدس و مسیح هم حذف شدن،صرفن برای این که حجمش کمتر شه و ارزونتر درآد؟!
ترجمه‌ی فرانسه‌ی این کتاب رو گرفتم از کتابخونه و دلم گرفت از این چیزی که الان به فارسی هست. حجم کتاب سه برابره و پر از تصویره. یه سری تابلوی تطبیقی ساخته اولش از همه‌ی ونوس‌ها و آدونیس‌ها که خودش به تنهایی جذابه. درسته که خیلی از عکس‌ها قابل چاپ نبودن اما من نمی‌دونم چرا تابلوهای تطبیقی مریم مقدس و مسیح هم حذف شدن،صرفن برای این که حجم‌ش کم‌تر شه و ارزون‌تر درآد؟!‏
Absolutely disappointing.
It's just another collection of selected paragraphs and quotes from historical and philosophical essays concerning Beauty and other aesthetical categories like the Picturesque or the Sublime, with some extra explanations.
I expected it to be a new essay by Mr. Eco himself, but his presence and touch on the subject approached is almost inexistent or unnoticeable.
Plus, a quite expensive book.
Still, it would be unfair not to acknowledge the book's easy style and summarized vision of the topic: useful for people with no further knowledge and a will to learn a bit about this tricky concept called Beauty.
Compré La Historia de la Belleza para mi tesis sobre estética.
Estudio Filosofía y al momento de hacer una tesis sobre estética creo que ya tengo algo de información al respecto, "por este motivo y sólo por este" no recomiendo el libro; es decir no lo recomiendo si lo buscas con fines de investigación académicos.Sin embargo, es un excelente libro de refrencia para profundizar con otras investigaciones.
Es una aproximación a "la belleza" con un lenguaje muy ameno, directo y simple que no complica su lectura.
This book takes a lot of stamina to go through.
The concept is quite easy: each chapter contains a short description of the period in question and its understanding of beauty, accompanied by important artworks and literature of the time.
Nevertheless it's hard to read (weird layout, at least in the german edition, and hard to understand texts without comments) and boring at times.
It doesn't feel like a cohesive book, but rather like lecture notes put together.
Period descriptions don't go into details, but mention what's most important.
What I really missed was an extensive analysis of the texts and artworks used.
Although the author has his own views, he tries to keep it hidden, focusing instead on what others thought, although the narrative gives a hint of which of those ideas he favors, sometimes quite broadly, but that is to be expected as he is a son of his own time and culture, so his views will be different (though still close) from mine.Its awkward handling, specially as it requires a certain level of involvement from the reader give it this relatively low score for such a gorgeous book.
History of beauty=Storia della bellezza, 2nd ed, 2005, Umberto Ecoتاریخ زیبایی: نظریه های زیبایی در فرهنگهای غربی؛ اثر: اومبرتو اکو؛ ترجمه و گزینش: هما بینا؛ پیشگفتار و تحشیه: جهانگیر شهدادی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، فرهنگستان هنر جمهوری اسلامی ایران، موسسه ی تالیف، ترجمه و نشر آثار هنری، 1390، در 230 ص، مصور ، بخشی رنگی، شابک: 9789642320844؛ کتابنامه ص 223، همچنین به صورت زیرنویس، نمایه دارد، موضوع: تاریخ زیبایی شناسی، هنر، فلسفه؛ از ترجمه انگلیسی به فارسی برگردانده شده است
Excellence in its own right ...
И не, не бих я използвала като меродавен източник за каквото и да било, така че не бих я нарекла "енциклопедия".* * *"История на красотата, представена от Умберто Еко", "Кибеа", прев.
Впрочем и в тая красота не съм сигурен: може ли да бъде хубаво нещо, което е глупаво?""Соларис", Станислав ЛемПървото, което трябва да се каже за тази книга е, че е красива.
Всяко описание на тъй неуловимата материя е валидно; това, което е Красотата за очите и хармонията за ушите, за интелекта е понятието..." (Балтасар Грасиан, ХVІІ в.)Х Разум и Красота"Човек, който не е имал никаква възможност да сравни различни видове Красота, изобщо не е подготвен да изкаже съждение относно какъвто и да било видян от него предмет.
Dal libro:  Anche le cose brutte si compongono nell'armonia del mondo per via di proporzione e contrasto. La Bellezza [...] nasce anche da questi contrasti, e anche i mostri hanno una ragione e una dignità nel concetto del creato, anche il male nell'ordine diviene bello e buono perché da esso nasce il bene, e accanto a esso il bene meglio rifulge.
I got through this book by pure endurance I built by jogging 2-3 miles a day, 4 times a week.
I loved Umberto's book "On Ugliness".
So when I opened my copy of the beautifully illustrated book "On beauty" and saw that one of the very first pictures of the book was a nude picture of what our society has been conditioned to recognize as beauty, I was disappointed.
I think that adding this image to the very first pages of this beautiful book was a serious offense, and I was indeed offended.
I didn't realize how great a role writing, especially poetry and philosophy, would play in the theories expressed and discussed in the book.
I was much better able to understand the arguments and explanations when they referred to art images (those included in the book or those left out) than when they were supported by poetry, philosophy, literature or music.
In the written works context was sometimes limited and this added to my feeling of being lost or confused.I would expect the book to be used more as a textbook--a graduate level textbook supported by other text, readings and discussions.
My only regret is that I have to read English translations as I am not going to learn Italian at this stage of my life.This book to me is a post- modernist history of the concept of beauty.
I have enjoyed reading cover to cover when I first got it and to this day still enjoy rereading parts of it and pursuing the many illustrations and examples of beauty and art through the ages.
What seems to frustrate many people posting reviews on the book is that they read it expecting to find a definitive definition of beauty and that's just not going to happen.
Lo estuve hojeando, tiene buenas imágenes....leí algunos pasajes, se ve interesante XD
Eco and De Michele seem to intend this book to serve as "a history" of beauty rather than "the history", if one exists at all—it reads most like the textbook for an introductory survey course in art history/aesthetics.I think this book does a decent job at striking the balance between a somewhat in-depth, insightful look into the subject matter and an accessible read geared toward those of us who are not experts equipped with the right kind of academic jargon.
Particularly, I've read a number of reviewers here and elsewhere that appeared to have issues with parts of this book in which the authors delve into the "beauty of the [mass] media", possibly founded upon the notion that the popular art that serves commercial and/or political ends just isn't (and shouldn't be) on the same level as the Great Masterpieces.
The scholarship by Eco is very good and the book has a lot of illustrations and primary sources to back his claims (although for the 20th century there is a lack of texts).
I must just warn that the stirrups didn't reach Europe in the High Middle Ages, but instead was already around in the late 6th and early 7th centuries (depending on the region) probably due to Avar influence.
Finally, unlike what some people say, this isn't properly a work of Art History (because it's goal isn't art in itself, although beauty is highly related to it and this is useful for art historians), but instead of semiotics (more specifically of semantics, as the perceptions of Beauty in the "western world" since Ancient Greece are discussed).
Umberto Eco a voulu éviter l'écueil du "beau livre d'art" qu'on vous offre, on répond "Ooooh, merci !!", on regarde au mieux une fois les images, puis on le met sur une étagère ou sur la table basse du salon et on le lit jamais...
Proportions idéales chez les Antiques, reflet des valeurs morales chez un Moyen Age qui n'aimait pas le corps, passage de la la notion d'équilibre à l'âge classique à celle de tension vers quelque chose de supérieur et d'extérieur avec la beauté romantique et le sublime inquiétant, puis le décadentisme, la relation de haine puis d'amour avec la machine, la coexistence d'une beauté de rébellion et d'une beauté de consommation au XXème siècle...
Avoiding the big word "Art" next to history, this book is not really about the history of art.
It is concerned with beauty.
You'd know better, "What is beauty?" is basically an absurd question to ask.
(Syncretion...I believe he used that word).It ends with this great statement,"Our explorer from the future will no longer be able to identify the aesthetic ideal diffused by the mass media of the twentieth century and beyond.
He will have to surrender before the orgy of tolerance, the total syncretism and the absolute and unstoppable polytheism of Beauty"
This was a bit of a tough read in that it could be slightly boring at times and also lacked a coherent organization or scheme.
True, Eco's main point is that there is not necessarily a theme to beauty, but this nonetheless made it a tougher read.
The included philosophic tidbits were great and well selected, though I felt some added context would have helped overall.
The images chosen were great, and almost always helped in understanding the ideas being presented.
Overall, decent, but my biggest problem is that I can't say I've walked away feeling I know much, if anything, more about beauty than I did going in.
Although from time to time the writing is a little muddled or the thinking confused, on the whole the short overview sections give a coherent explanation of Eco's understanding of how our thinking about beauty has developed. The overviews are embedded within copious images of paintings, scultures, as well as excerpts from treatises and other texts. These are wonderful. Am borrowing this book from a friend, but would love a copy of my own. Would go back to it often.
I got this for Christmas ages ago and I think it's wedged into a back bookcase. Harper's reposted their review of it though and I might go back:The sensible George Santayana observed that beauty begins with sensation: what we immediately, and especially what children like immediately, is the best proof of sincerity. And when "sincerity is lost, and a snobbish ambition is substituted, bad taste comes in."
Bellissime immagini, interessanti spiegazioni, alcune note, altre meno. Come al solito Eco risulta ai miei occhi di gran lunga un migliore saggista che romanziere, anche se l'ultima delle sue fatiche letterarie (Tempo Zero) non é mortale come L'isola del giorno prima, anzi.
