https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/116012.Carolina_Moon
This book was so bad and made me so angry that I wasn't going to write a review but my OCD is stronger than me, also, I need to vent somewhere.First, let's make one thing clear.
I suspend my disbelief when needed, I swallow cliches like they were milk and honey, I even put up with bad writing.
Everything was cliche, every character (including all the bland secondary characters), every scene, every description, every 'plot twist' (the expression 'plot twist' is a bit of an overstatement when it comes to this book).
And I know I said I don't mind cliches and that they are like milk and honey.
I read this for the Murder Most Foul square for Halloween Bingo "So many," Tory whispered."All were sexual homicides. Raped and strangled. There was no semen. There was some physical violence, particularly in the facial area. That escalates with each victim.""Because their faces aren't right. Their faces aren't hers. Hope's." The main and underlining impetus for this story was the rape and murder of an eight year old girl who was the bestfriend of our heroine, Tory; pretty dark stuff. I couldn't
The main and underlining impetus for this story was the rape and murder of an eight year old girl who was the bestfriend of our heroine, Tory; pretty dark stuff.
This story is more of an ensemble piece with a secondary romance that I kind of wish got its own book and two handfuls of family and townspeople edging into the spotlight.
Our hero Cade was the brother of Tory's bestfriend that was murdered and he never truly felt fully fleshed out for me.
The rape and murder of an eight year old girl is never easy to read about, so be prepared for that, along with physical violence.
3.75 Stars.I enjoyed it even though it sort of dragged a bit halfway through. I kinda find that with long books though ... my attention wavers a bit! I had an inkling of the "bad 'un" about halfway through. It was fairly obvious to me.There was a Lifetime Movie made and the following are some pictures from it. Not really how I imagined the characters ...I would have liked an Epilogue! You know me!We are in the South. You gotta have some sweet Iced Tea.
Unfortunately, Hope is murdered and Tory sees it thru a vision but can't see who did it.
Tory tells Hope's family and lead them to the body and it changes her life and their life too.
Tory's family moves away after the murder and when she is old enough she escapes from her abusive father but is still burdened by her gift and the death of her old friend.
Even though he father taught him a lot when it went to college and came back and with his own ideas of how to do things against not only his mother but other people who farm in their town.
After something mysterious happens to her in New York that has her running from there, Tory returns to her hometown of Progress, South Carolina after a few years of building up her savings and working.
On top of that, Tory starts a relationship with Hope's older brother, Cade.As I said above, Tory as a character doesn't have a lot of there there until the middle and end of the book.
There are secondary characters in this one, we have the local sheriff, the town mayor, Tory's uncle and aunt, her grandmother, Cade's mother, etc.
But their backgrounds raised this book to the next level by drawing in the long-lasting effect of parents, family, and the need for love that children have.
In other words, it works out in a way that is not only believable, but actually central to both the story's plot and the development of the characters into the relationships that they eventually build.
It was artfully done and I loved watching it unfold.The suspense plot of the story is the weakest aspect of the book, but even that folded into the exploration of abuse in families in interesting ways.
I've only recently "discovered" Nora Roberts - well, I've known about her for some time, but hadn't actually read any of her books until recently.
I suppose I didn't give it a five star because I didn't fall in love with the H or the h - I like them very much, good characters, but just didn't LOVE them.
I did enjoy all the secondary characters and it was interesting in different parts of the book to get insights into a lot of them.
I'm really loving Nora Roberts.
On Sweet Iced Tea.
Nobody says, "Would you care for an iced tea?" Because it's just tea, it's understood to be sweet and iced.
Nobody says, "Hey let's go out for an iced tea!" Because you have it right there in your house and if you don't, it's because you've run out and you will have more in 10 minutes.
When you go to a restaurant, no one orders iced tea, they order TEA and it comes to the table sweet and with ice.
12/12/12This book was, I guess, supposed to be a murder mystery and a romance.
The murder mystery, yeah, about that.
There are rules when writing a murder mystery.
"Hope is the thing with feathers-That perches in the soul-And sings the tune without the words-And never stops-at all."~Emily DickinsonTory Bodeen has been keeping away from her past for as long as she has been able.
Keeping away from the fact that her best friend was murdered when they were both eight years old.
Echoes of the past are stirring, and her best friends murderer is still on the loose.This was a wonderful book, and is definitely making my list of favorite Nora Roberts books!
I loved the descriptions of South Carolina, but mostly I really came to know and love the characters; not just Tory but the supporting characters as well.
Está bien. Juega al despiste durante todo el libro y se centra en eso, no tanto en el romance de ellos. Me quedo con Faith de todos los personajes.
Perdí la cuenta de todos los comentarios y mensajes que hay a lo largo de la novela.
Que una no puede ni pasarlo por alto.
O sea, Tory y Cade (c'mon, sabemos que acabaran juntos, esto no es ni de lejos un spoiler) terminan en una relación porque Cade es un pesadísimo de la vida y Tory no "tiene" argumentos para rebatirle y decirle que no.
-Desarrollo de la historia: (jajajajajaja, es broma ¿no?) Todo el tema de los poderes psíquicos de Tory es un maldito chiste y aquí nadie te cuenta nada.
Y...diría que esto es todo.
Years ago, maybe in 2007 there was this local DVD shop that sells one of a kind movies released on DVDs and I found a few Nora Roberts made-for-tv films, I bought some and have been obsessed ever since. This was one of them, such a good movie.Now it's 2016 and I bought a LOT of Nora Roberts books through the years but my latest purchases were all her novels that were made into movies. I'm starting with this one. I hope they make the Bridal Quartet next.
5 Stars*****This is probably my favorite Nora stand-a-lone read. She totally had me at hot, organic cotton farmer;)
I'm always seeing the name Nora Roberts everywhere and wanted to see what the fuss is about.
And I'm finally in agreement with what Joyce Carol Oates once said- "There's no bad genre, only bad writing." Being a romance, this book has your typical 'bodice-ripper' scenes, but the author's prose reads more like passionate poetry at these parts.
The main character, Tory Bodeen, has come back to her South Carolina hometown after various tragedies, particularly the murder of her best friend Hope Lavelle, forced her out years ago.
Character development was wonderful (particularly the men- but what else would you expect from a bestselling romance novelist?
Good characters.There is mystery and suspense due to a serial killer.
There is one rape-murder scene with not much detail.
Tory was repeatedly beaten by her father throughout her life until she left home at 18.
I liked both romances.
Although I wondered why Cade fell in love so immediately with Tory.
I liked the character development.
I liked the paranormal.
Tory has psychic ability.
But I could go with it because the rest of the story was good.
Story length: 468 pages.
Swearing language: strong, including religious swear words, but not often used.
Sexual language: mild.
Number of sex scenes: 7.
I could not fully appreciate this book since I live in the area she is allegedly writing about and the glaring errors just rubbed my nerves raw.
She knows nothing about the lowcountry lifestyle, geography, and culture (although she did shamelessly pull some real place names off a roadmap.) Since the locale was obviously non-essential to her story, she should have left the fair name of "Carolina" off this book.
I might have enjoyed the story if it were Iowa Moon.
Anyone from the Coastal Carolinas, please avoid this book, it will kill you.
Stick with Siddons, Kidd, Frank, and Conroy.
The murder remained unsolved and, after many years, Tory has returned home to Progress, South Carolina to make peace with her past and come to terms with herself.This is one of Nora's best romantic suspense stories I've read to date.
It has a good, complex mystery, strong main characters in Tory and Cade Lavelle (Hope's older brother), interesting secondary characters and a Southern backdrop.
While there are a few quirky people in the town of Progress, they aren't stereotypically diminshed and are central to the main story and Tory's life.
Narrated by Dean Robertson.I thought I'd read this book, and then realized I had only seen the made-for-TV movie a few years back.
The story is there, and a great narrator could make the listeners sweat from the heat and feel the mosquitoes bite.
But other than that, Robertson mainly just reads the book without inflection or differentiation of characters.
I got used to the narration part way in, and still enjoyed the book, but I never stopped thinking that it's a shame this interesting suspense and love story wasn't given to a more animated reader.
Believe it or not this is my first Nora Roberts book.
I was drawn to the South Carolina setting, the mystery, and the sultry psychic.
As a native of South Carolina the setting and the people rang very true.It made me homesick.
I also thought the mystery was very good.
It was a perfect storm of a book for me.
I am not a big fan of long sex scenes and the ones in this book were not too long or detailed.
Even though it had all the things I love, I was still surprised by how much I enjoyed this book.
Knjiga je interesantna i uzbudljiva, samo me malo razočarao kraj, prosto je previše zbrzan. Kao da joj je ponestalo vremena za pisanje, ili idej i odjednom CAP! Preokret, rasplet, kraaaj! To mi jedino smeta. Ostalo mi se baš sviđa, pogotovo ideja da glavna junakinja ima neku vrstu moći :)
Claro de Luna y yo no empezamos con buen pie y de hecho, el principio apenas lo recuerdo porque no me gustó (o por el tema este de las obras de mis vecinos, todavía no he esclarecido si no me gustó/no me enteraba de nada porque no me atrapaba o porque simplemente...
Cuando arrestan a este hombre y aún quedaban 15 páginas por delante, ya era claro que el asesino iba a ser otra persona, ¿pero quién?
This is my third Nora Roberts Book.
When I was a teen I used to like to read romances.
Back then they involved pirates and cowboys.
To borrow a phrase my principal loves to use, "It is what it is." Her books always involve a strong willed independent woman, an handsome and always rich or well off male lead who is also very attractive, a skilled lover, oh and looking to commit quickly to said female lead.Guess everyone needs some escapist lit.
I bought this book for 50 cents at a yard sale.
It definitely was worth double that at least.
Hope é violentamente assassinada num pântano perto de casa aos 8 anos de idade.Passado 18 anos, Tory a sua amiga inseparável, regressa à sua cidade natal para abrir uma loja de presentes e tentar reatar relações de amizade e familiares.Tory tem de enfrentar os seus fantasmas e o um sentimento de culpa que advêm do facto de ter combinado com Hope irem nadar nessa noite e ter falhado o compromisso.
Nice twist at the end. The audio version suffered a bit from the narration though. It was sometimes very hard to differentiate between the characters during their conversations. After listening to Carnal Innocence narrated by Tom Stechschulte, I don't think Dean Robertson was as good in this one.
I needed a little Nora fix, and this one filled the need splendidly. It had everything I enjoy from this author; strong heroine, likable hero, and a predictable but interesting plot. Even though she was secondary, Faith's character development was my favorite aspect of the book. If you're a NR fan, this is one I recommend.
I have so many questions! Just ended without any closure. So annoying!
Wow, wow, wow! I really enjoyed reading this book! Carolina Moon was the perfect balance of suspense, romance, and paranormal elements! I was captivated and also quite disgusted by the events that occurred in this story and my interest never waned! What a good book!!
I like reading romance novels in between the "deeper" books as a break, and at the end of a day of taking care of a rambunctious toddler, sometimes the last thing I want to do is read a book that makes me think.Roberts is often best at her trilogies, and judging by this book, she should go back to what has been her forte these past few years.
There are more ghosts in her past than a Stephen King novel, from her abusive father and doormat mother, to the family of her best friend, killed at the age of eight.Roberts introduces Tory's psychic powers early on, which should have been a big clue that this wasn't the usual Nora Roberts book.
Reasonably frequent.Hero: Owns cotton plantation.Heroine: Opening small business.Paranormal: Heroine has second sight.Trigger: Child abuse including frequent beatings.
Violent rape (including rape of a child).
Some implied pedophilia/incest.Heavy duty book with a lot in it, much of it unnecessary.~ Paranormal / second sight~ Child abuse / domestic violence~ Social /class ostracism~ Second chances / coming home~ Murder and mayhem / serial killerLike many Nora Roberts mystery/suspense books the romance is rapid and secondary to the story she's trying to tell.
Cade and Tory get together for no reason I could tell, just because.
But she had Hope, who lived in the big house just a short skip away and whose friendship allowed Tory to be something she wasn't allowed to be at home: a child.After young Hope's brutal murder, unsolved to this day, Tory's life began to fall apart.
As she forges a new bond with Cade Lavelle--Hope's older brother and the heir to the family fortune--she isn't sure whether the tragic loss they share will unite them or drive them apart.
But she is willing to open her heart, just a little, and try.Living so close to those unhappy memories will be more difficult and frightening than Tory could ever have expected, however.
