https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19161910-the-nothing-man

Psychotically slapstick tale of an ace reporter who lost his private parts in the war, unfortunately the newshound is handsome as hell, so the ladies all chase after him like nobody’s business. What’s a hostile, castrated hunk to do but kill all the women? Best scene in the book is when the boss’ babytalking wife gets her fat ass handed to her by our dickless hero. Shortly after he throws up her nauseating dinner of frankfurters cooked in mayonnaise (dig the phallic symbolism). One of Thompson’s most demented works.
God, I love Jim Thompson. On a whim, I decided to reread some of my favorites. The Nothing Man is a blast. A poetry-writing newspaper man, fifths of whisky downed in a few hours, women who fall in love easily and quickly, and murder. What's not to love?
Classic nihilistic Thompson.
Clinton Brown is work-a-holic, alcoholic, sociopathic wiseass, void of all emotion, and capable of fooling all of his small-town, lame brained coworkers into doing just about anything he wants.
He drinks whiskey around the clock, uses his good looks to manipulate women, yet has no problem in resorting to extreme acts of violence when he feels that his cherished loneliness is in danger.
When Clinton gets personally involved in the death of his former wife, a mystery unravels as to whether or not he is guilty of a booze-fueled murder, or if he is a victim of an intense set up.
Overall, a classic, boozy, hard boiled crime story...
Lo ammetto, non conoscevo Jim Thompson, mi sono solo piaciute la copertina e la trama ma ora posso dire di aver fatto una grande scoperta. Scrittura fluida e potente, trama avvincente e originalità della narrazione fanno senza dubbio innamorare fin dalle prime pagine di questo libro. Chi è Clinton Brown? Qual è il suo problema? Fin dove ci trascinerà con la sua follia? Domande alle quali urge dare una risposta e alle quali Jim Thompson ci inchioda con sapienza. Ora urge assolutamente dare seguito a questa lettura con qualche altro romanzo di questo maestro dell'hardboiled!
Thompson rispetto a Cain dà risalto principalmente al protagonista, alle situazioni che portano scalino dopo scalino a considerare normale la follia (la cena dal capo, per dire) e sovverte i canoni del noir, per cui l’antieroe è a suo modo un eroe, un reietto che diventa una vittima ed è destinato alla sconfitta nei confronti della causa.
Even if we have another one at the house I will not read it.
Or at least the one's I've read.
The main character kills women.
The only new thing in this book is it seems Clinton Brown may not have had a penis.
But I think that is what we are supposed to wonder about.The only thing I was intrigued by (besides the question about the lack of or the presence of a penis) in this book published in 1954 is that newspapers are evidently closing right and left.
hmmmm maybe video didn't kill the radio star.
Noir da manuale, Un uomo da niente è narrato dalla voce del protagonista Clinton Brown, saldamente ancorato alla spirale discendente delle proprie azioni. L’intreccio, filtrato dal suo punto di vista, presenta fatti aperti ad interpretazioni sempre nuove, rendendo impossibile stabilire cosa sia reale e cosa no. Brown sprofondando in se stesso atterra nel caos, dove l’esistente è un vortice nauseante privo di punti di riferimento. Scritto nel 1954, pubblicato per la prima volta in Italia nei Gialli Proibiti Longanesi nel 1955 e poi nel 1989, viene ristampato in pompa magna da Einaudi Stile Libero nel 2013.
Un bel noir scritto molto bene da un autore di cui nonavevo ancora letto nessun libro.Thompson ha sa
Che fatica finirlo! Non mi è piaciuto, la storia non incalza, resta in superficie e sembra sempre che manchi qualche dettaglio, i personaggi sono buttati lì a caso, compreso il protagonista. Eppure l'autore è stato uno sceneggiatore di successo (ha lavorato anche con Kubrick). Per me bocciato.

The plot is somewhat convoluted at first, not the sort of deft writing that merely hides details and reveals facts slowly, and the reader will be quite confused.
were there several blackmail plots at play?--are weakly resolved and given no pat answer, though the book does have a somewhat startling conclusion regarding the main character and his primary foil.It may not be the best example of Thompson's work due to those issues with coherency, but his characters and style more than make up for those lapses.

La devo poi smettere di credere a tutte le campagne pubblicitarie che magnificano l'ennesimo capolavoro...Infatti non ci siamo.Un uomo da niente è noioso e risente degli anni che ha sulle spalle. È una trama interessante, il protagonista è interessante, la scrittura è interessante, ma tra due settimane me lo sarò scordato del tutto. Alla fine viene venduto come una sorta di noir psicologico, e ne risulta un libro che come noir è una palla, come indagine profonda negli abissi della disperata psiche umana, superficiale e banale. (Non mi va mai bene niente, oh!)
My personal favorite Jim Thompson novel. Guy comes back from the war with a little secret wound that he will kill to keep secret. Loaded with a few first-hand insights into the life of an alcoholic newspaper reporter of the time. I think it is amazing that he got away with writing this back in the 1950s, when I believe screen kisses were still timed and limited to no more than 5 seconds!! This is simply good stuff. Read it, guys, you'll enjoy it.
Typically nutty Thompson novel. The protagonist is a compellingly sardonic writer who got his, um, parts, blown off in the war and is so consumed with shame that he'll do *anything* to keep it quite. Black humor and violence abound. It's not as sharp as Thompson's best; I've seen speculation that the publisher insisted on a twist ending that doesn't really fit with the rest of the book and it certainly feels that way.
The Nothing Man is a clever twist on a murder novel. In it we see the classic Thompson confrontation between the (A) existentially troubled, intellectually sophisticated (but impotent) Thompson character versus (B) the sly good ole boy and his old fashioned human corruption, and you can guess who ultimately wins.
the NOthing man. it's shakespeare. lear and hamlet have a lot in common with the drunken slob of an anti-hero in this novel.a lot of walking and talking in this, as well.i'd love to see a screenplay for this.
I've read this book six or seven times, and it just keeps getting funnier every time.
La escisión de la identidadAprovechando que acabo de terminar la biografía del escritor norteamericano, una joya de la que tendréis noticias en este blog en no mucho tiempo; se me ocurrió la posibilidad de hacer un pequeño monográfico con las obras que me quedaban por leer del escritor; ha valido mucho la pena, sobre todo porque gracias al análisis de la biografía, es indudable que ayudan a disfrutarlas mucho más.La primera de ellas ha sido la última que ha sacado RBA en su serie negra, “Libertad Condicional”, obra encuadrada históricamente tras el que fue su primer gran éxito, esa obra maestra que es “El asesino dentro de mí”, esta influencia y la atracción del cine serán decisivas en el resultado final.Partiendo de una buena idea, se nos presenta un presidio, Sandstone, donde el convicto Pat Cosgrove malvive, pero que, sin embargo, verá la posibilidad de salir gracias a la ayuda aparentemente desinteresada de Doc Luther, obteniendo la libertad condicional para trabajar con él, librándolo de un verdadero infierno:“Luther creía estar acostumbrado a las aberraciones.
For instance...This one, like all of Jim Thompson's novels, takes place in a small town in hell populated entirely by murderers, thieves, psychopaths, sociopaths, cowards, con men, alcoholics, blackmailers, whores, crooked cops, crooked politicians, the extremely conceited.
But this isn't a novel dealing with some otherworldly evil - It, (again) like all of Jim Thompson's novels, is a novel filled with the sort of slimy and degenerate human evil you can find in your local neighborhood, the newspapers, the evening news, or the mirror.
In many respects, the Oedipal castration anxiety of The Grifters is merged with the existential absurdism of The Getaway, with hints of the sociopathic protagonists of Pop. 1280 and The Killer Inside Me, now synthesized into a delightfully sick, and somewhat ambiguous, socio-political takedown of post-war America.While Thompson’s novel certainly retains its bite by offering a window into a different era, its staying power is equally impressive.
Which not only makes Thompson an incisive critic of his own time, but an eerily prophetic voice who might have known exactly where America was headed decades before most began catching on.
Un uomo da niente non mi ha convinto come gli altri thriller dell'autore: la colpa risiede principalmente nel protagonista, un po' troppo manipolabile per essere credibile, e nel finale che scoppia come una miccetta dopo aver accumultato dinaminte per pagine e pagine. Scritto benissimo come al solito ma sicuramente un libro sotto le mie aspettative.P.S. Il fatto che ci siano ancora in giro romanzi di Thompson senza adattamento cinematografico è un delitto. In mano a un regista discreto libri come questo potrebbero diventare una bomba.
Nihilism and toxic masculinity wrapped up in one of the most potent word packages Thompson ever produced. It's not the eternal nightmare of KILLER INSIDE ME or the formal experiment madness of HELL OF A WOMAN, but still among Big Jim's best.
Great vibe and atmosphere, crazy/dicey story. Not prime Jim Thompson, but it's still Jim Thompson.
This book is hilarious. Once you find out what the protagonist has lost in the war, you just... can't. I think the males of the species will have a different take on this. Lol
I really enjoy Thompson, but.
it's a good, engaging, slightly idiosyncratic noir.Thompson does a good job of keeping you just off balance - whenever you think you know on where it's all going to land up he just knocks you a different way.
This has some lighter moments compared with other Thompson novels, and in the end the misanthropy is somewhat, well, evened-up, so long as you don't take it too seriously.
And in the end I think that's the one niggle I have - other Thompson novels seem serious, weighty.
This one I had to take a little less seriously in order to enjoy it.
This is a clever book, but I can't say I enjoyed it as much as at least 5-6 of Thompson's other novels.
There's a psychopathic protagonist who kills for no particular reason (normally women) and then kills more people to cover up the initial murder/s.
There's always a lot of sadistic conversation with other characters who are being duped/framed for the crimes of the protagonist.
The gimmick here is that the protagonist, 'Brownie' lost his dick in the war and that's his reason for his grudge.
Otherwise, I found this unamusing except for the clever ending.
Surely Thompson's dark Freudian joke?
All the usual murder noir elements in place - whisky, rain, nicotine and despair; crooked police and corrupt politicians, weak willed patsys and uber cool dames.
With one cruel twist.
Our anti hero is missing something vital.
And is blessed with being unusually attractive to the ladies, which makes his lack of ability to satisfy that desire drive a murderous rage.
The "nothing" leaves him twisted, alcoholic, and weirdly poetic - words being his only escape from the grim reality his life has become.
Made me cross my legs in some kind of protective gesture, and gave me a wicked grin throughout.
The author is a top class writer of crime genre and most of his book including this one is from the view point of a criminal and has lot of thought process of a person who has no inhibition to do the wrong doing.
The writer generate a few leads and hint about a situation and later picks it up to generate the storyline.
The protagonist does the wrong doing and describe the same in his point of view and continue to escape the situation till the end.
The author is one of the few whose novel are more popular after his demise.
