https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1933181.The_Lady_Elizabeth
Well, this novelized version of Elizabeth I's life preceding her coronation does take sides.
She personally believes Elizabeth was a virgin, but in the first third of the novel, she has Elizabeth having sex with her stepfather and then miscarrying the child.
I mean, if the author herself doesn't believe what she's portraying, you can feel it, and the whole scene and ensuing months of Elizabeth's life suffer in the telling.
She tried to be Philippa Gregory, but I really wanted Weir to take the high road rather than giving in to pressures from her publisher and whoever else decided she needed to include a sex scene.
There's nothing wrong with creating an imaginary lover for Elizabeth--I don't care if she was a real virgin or not, but Weir manages to diminish the extraordinary stand Elizabeth took in refusing to marry to the level of sexual frigidity.
She lived at a time when husbands wielded power over their wives.
Call me Not an Historian but I figured Elizabeth refused to marry to avoid the very conflicts she witnessed with her sister.
Weir gives us no psychological insight into how that woman developed and flowered at a time when everything was working against her.
The most interesting part of this novel was the period of her life following her father's death when she lived with her stepmother, Katherine Parr, and her new husband, Thomas Seymour.
Katherine had been in love with Seymour when the King commanded she marry him instead.
Before he married Katherine Parr, he tried to woo both Mary and Elizabeth.
(Rather a no-no at the time.)Even though he was married to Katherine, he was still drawn to Elizabeth and since she was living in his household, he blatantly sought her out.

The author would take a couple of main topics and bury you with them.For example, parts of the relationship between Elizabeth and Thomas Seymour were WAY overdone:(view spoiler)[Kat tells the queen of Thomas’ inappropriate behavior… the queen does nothing… Kat admonishes Thomas… Thomas ignores her… Kat tells the queen again… Thomas leaves Elizabeth alone for a while… Kat rebukes Elizabeth… Elizabeth ignores her… Thomas starts coming to the bedroom again… once again Kat tells the queen… the queen doesn’t believe her… the queen then participates in cutting off Elizabeth’s dress… Kat protests loudly to her… the queen does nothing… Elizabeth gets caught in bed with Thomas… the queen is shocked and finally sends Elizabeth away.
She is in her element writing this kind of historical fiction, because she has written so many biographies on the Tudors, including the Wives of Henry VIII which I loved.
Unlike Philippa Gregory, Weir's writing is based on actual facts.
Do not get me wrong, I loved Gregory's The Other Boleyn Girl, but it had very little based on fact, it was made into an entirely different drama.
Weir does add some dramatic elements, which she explains in the end-one major item in the story is completely fictional.
The story telling was 4 stars, the fictional liberties were 1 1/2 stars.
Yes, I know it's a fictional book, but I expect more from a "historian" than a bunch of cliches.
I did not like the portrayal of Kat (Elizabeth's governess) She was immature, annoying and I simply wanted to slap her.
Elizabeth was a naive child, who fell in love with Thomas Seymour.
Why can't a woman simply not want to get married?
I'm an Elizabeth fan.
Had it been an actual book, I would have dumped it when Kat wanted Elizabeth to marry Thomas and make beautiful babies.
Obzirom da su povijesni romani moj omiljeni žanr...pa onda još Tudori... (točnije Elizabeta I) pa još i to da sam ovu knjigu dugo, dugo željela čitati nisam baš objektivna u ovom osvrtu.. ;) Meni je ovo sve super.. Priča prati onaj rani dio života Elizabete Tudor, od njezine 3. god pa do trenutka kada postaje kraljica. Likovi, događaj temelje se na povijesnim činjenicama, začinjeno, naravno sa dozom fikcije. I sve skupa je meni odlično. Za ljubitelje žanra- obvezatno štivo. :)
I keep trying to figure this out and I think the conclusion is that I don't like the men in her life.
I know they are important parts of her life but the fact that I dislike them both(although you didn't see much of Dudley in this book) sometimes makes it hard to engage in Elizabeth's story when they are about.
Weir admits that although she tries to stick closely to the facts, as it's fiction she does fantasise about some of the rumors concerning Elizabeth, mainly the one where she becomes pregnant with Seymour's child.
In the first, the writer deals with her childhood in a very tender manner that shows us that despite her position she was also a little girl like all the others, looking for love and affection.
In the third one we are in the politically most critical part of this period when during her sister's reign she lived years of uncertainty, trying to survive and maintain her position as successor to the throne.
There the writer does a very good job as a historian putting a lot of historical details in this part thus creating an exciting chronicle, this insistence, however, I think it is at the expense of literary.
I have little patience with archaic dialogue, for one thing, and I chafe at too much fictional corpulence draped over an historical skeleton.
Of course, if you're that sort of reader, you wouldn't have picked up this, or likely, any, historical novel to start with.
All in all, 'The Lady Elizabeth' is a gratifying read, well developed and well-paced, and it avoids the innate fripperiness of much historical fiction.
Loved, loved, loved this book..it was a daunting four hundred plus page-turner that I thoroughly enjoyed..and of course it combined all my favorite elements to an amazing book, a strong woman with power, drama and secrets, at least one major scene that makes me reread with my mouth wide open and my weakness:the Tudor dynasty.
This is the story of dear Elizabeth, daughter of the infamous Anne Boleyn and her rise to be the longest ruling, most effective and greatest queen England has ever known, ruling alone and confidently for 45 years..I adored Elizabeth from the first page and felt for her in every crazy and terrible situation she faced, her companions Kat and Lady Parry were the best friends ever, absolutely loyal and true.
Since I'm an avid Anglophile, I couldn't resist this book.
Even though I've read many books on the subject and know the story, it showed it to me from a different angle, and added a lot to my understanding of the frame of mind of the main character, Elizabeth I, and others around her.
The book follows her since the death of her mother Anne Boleyn, to her becoming queen.
It is an amazing story, filled not only with some very interesting and unique characters with fascinating personalities, but also with political and religious issues, difficult choices, manipulations, dangers and many moments of pure chance (or luck, depending on which side you're on).

Alison Weir tom je problemu uspjela doskočiti upravo odabirom razdoblja Elizabetinog života o kojem će pisati, jer, iako je njena vladavina i njen život kao kraljice dobro dokumentiran i o njemu možemo saznati gotovo sve detalje iz brojnih povijesnih izvora, Elizabetine rane godine još su nam uvijek uglavnom nepoznanica.Ono što je o Elizabetinim ranim godinama poznato, Weir s velikom točnošću prati, ali u sve one 'rupe' u pojedinim razdobljima Elizabetinog života o kojima postoje samo nagađanja Weir je ugradila svoju fikciju - svoj način gledanja na ono što se možda u tom razdoblju dogodilo.
I found myself a little bored at first because it followed Elizabeth's childhood and I was pretty familiar with the events during that time, so I wasn't really getting anything new.
I very much enjoyed that aspect of this book, but it wasn't a page turner and the pacing lacked, but that is going to be the case when you have an author who tries to stay as close to the events as possible (with some fictionalization thrown in there).There is a second book in this series about her that I own so I will be continuing.
I know little about her actual reign so I hope to enjoy that one even more.
Nonetheless, from having read a few other works regarding the era, it does not seem too far off the mark.The story depicts Elizabeth, bastard daughter of Henry VIII, as a survivor.
The tale begins with Elizabeth as a child and traces her life up to the death of her sister, Queen Mary (also designated as a bastard by Henry VIII, daughter of Katherine of Aragon).
Obviously, that places her at some disadvantage!The story focuses on Elizabeth's early life.
There are obvious tensions between Mary (Catholic daughter of a Catholic Queen) and Elizabeth (advocate of a reformed church after Henry VIII's breakaway from the Catholic Church).
Weir is known for her historical non-fiction, but sometimes non-fiction can be dry and overall boring, so to give myself the best impression of Weir's knowledge, I decided to pick up one of her historical fiction novels.The Lady Elizabeth focuses on Queen Elizabeth I before she was queen.
Another factor that made me like this book was Weir didn't stray from history that much, but when she did, it was drawn from a rumor that was spread during Elizabeth's time.
My biggest pet peeve with historical fiction is that you can't believe what is being said without fact checking, but Weir's author note put me at rest.
This book is about the life of Queen Elizabeth I, and highlights from the day her mother, Anne Boleyn, was beheaded to the day she became Queen upon the death of her sister Mary Tudor.
What most fascinated me was the portrayal throughout the book of the up and down relationship between Elizabeth and Mary.
During this time, it was easy for Mary to befriend Elizabeth since the latter was no threat to the former.
In truth, I find it hard to believe that a woman as intelligent, educated, and vain as Elizabeth was a blameless in all the intrigues as Weir portrayed her.
I'll admit that after having read most of Weir's nonfiction work, I expected alot.
The plot doesn't stay strictly historically accurate (at least according to her own nonfiction on Elizabeth) but this could be forgiven if her characters were just more, well, believable.
For those who don't know anything about the basic outline of Elizabeth's life, I will say the story may gain an appeal just for revealing that.
However, those already briefed on said facts, who are simply looking to see humanity breathed into familiar characters through a page-turning infusion of emotion and intrigue steeped in the vibrancy Tudor court life, are much better off looking elsewhere.
The story of Queen Elizabeth I and that of her father King Henry VIII, is quite familiar, but Alison Weir gives a new touch to it.
She, brings the characters to life, she lets King Henry VIII, tell us of his desperate need and desire to beget a son.
She lets Queen Elizabeth I speak of her terrible infatuation for Thomas Seymour, the child she miscarries.
The saddest person however, was, Mary who just longed and longed to get married and have a child.
In her desperation, when she marries the Spanish Prince, she believes herself to be pregnant.
Between Alison Weir and Philippa Gregory who have both written about the wives and times of King Henry VIII, I feel as if I'm becoming an expert on that era.
This book is nicely researched and written.
Though it is not as deep in description and detail as Gregory's books, it is a very satisfying read.I always thought being the Queen of England would be a nice peaceful existence in which you dressed beautifully and had lots of money.
That may be the way the Queen lives now but certainly not in the time of Henry VIII.
Weir covers the years of Elizabeth's life from the age of about three, when her mother, Anne Boleyn, was decapitated, to the day she becomes imperious as Queen Elizabeth I.
Weir in her author notes expresses the fact that she is foremost an historian, but because there are certain fantastic rumors covering the adolescent years of Elizabeth's life, she took the opportunity to spread some royal gossip.
Therefore, some of this book may be more fiction than fact; we just have no hard evidence.
The Lady Elizabeth breathes life into a century's old queen and her history.
This book held my interest from beginning to end.
It documents the early years of Lady Elizabeth from her childhood (1536) until she ascends the throne of England as Queen in 1558.
Ms. Weir documented the fictional liberties she took in the story but for the most part it was historically accurate and written in a very readable manner.
She describes in detail how Elizabeth's coped with the shifting political and personal changes and the personal dangers she herself endured.
I highly recommend this book and will be seeking more books by Ms. Weir.
Weir's historical novel is a strange little paradox; at times I found it unputdownable, but there were also many moments when it read like a slog.
Weir mentions in her author's note that she omitted some details to avoid repetition, but good lord, at least half of this book is just rehashed scenes of Elizabeth going to court, being imprisoned in some shape or form, then being sent back to Hatfield, times 100.
But overall, the book was satisfying in its portrayal of young Gloriana and her trials and tribulations.
The Lady Elizabeth by Alison Weir is an exciting addition to the realm of Tudor fiction.
I’m sure there are some who would be put off by the more controversial aspects of the story, especially between the Admiral and Elizabeth, but I thought it gave the plot an enthralling twist that had not yet been put forth in other Tudor fiction, setting The Lady Elizabeth apart.
Another way that this story is set apart from the other Tudor fiction is that a good portion of the story follows Lady Elizabeth when she is a young girl.
I am rating The Lady Elizabeth 4.5 because the story lagged for me a bit three quarters of the way through the book.
I picked this novel up wondering what new insights or interpretations could Ms Weir possibly bring to the fictional portrayal of Elizabeth.Ms Weir’s novel opens with Elizabeth being told of her mother’s death in 1536, by her half sister Mary, and takes us through Elizabeth’s life until the time when the death of Mary in 1558 makes her Queen of England.
The Elizabeth portrayed by Ms Weir is deeply impacted by events around her and is quick to learn about the relative value of women as daughters, wives and mothers.
I loved this romp through 16th century royal court life. Whilst initially put off by princess Elizabeth speaking complex sentences at two and a half, I thoroughly enjoyed this mostly historical but partly speculative look at Elizabeth 1st's childhood and young womanhood until she became queen. The author did acknowledge that she makes Elizabeth a tad precocious but apparently it is known/recorded that she had a keen intellect from an early age so I've forgiven her (the author).
A brilliant, highly engaging read! As always loved the writing, and found I couldn't put the book down. Loved learning about the early life of Elizabeth 1. I love historical fiction so loved this! Esp as easy read so hopefully appealing to wise range of readers.
This was awesome. The writer really makes you feel for Elizabeth. I loved reading this book, and was a little sad when it ended.
