https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/729625.Tree_in_the_Trail
This was one of our geography books for my second grader this past year (see Ambleside Online 2nd grade curriculum). We loved reading one chapter a week but near the end we didn't want to stop and finished reading it all at once.The illustrations are beautifully detailed with colors true to the colors of the Santa Fe trail. I am grateful Holling C. Holling was a storyteller in this tale of history. Facts alone don't stick - they need relatable and enjoyable context. Mr. Holling is an expert at this.
My least favorite book in the series so far. I really did not enjoy it.
When my son was 9, he was willing to sit and let me read this entire book to him. He enjoyed the historical walk along the Santa Fe Trail. When he was 10 he was no longer interested--too many words, not tantalizing enough.I enjoyed reading it, but catch your kids at the right time if you want them to enjoy it.
I enjoyed this book but I think paddle to the sea is a little bit more interesting.
A great book to read to your children. It's a pretty easy read because each chapter is 1 page long. The chapters captivated my kids, and they kept asking to read one more. The book describes 1 tree as multitudes of people came across it, through the centuries. This book encouraged both me and my family to look up and study further in depth some of the history and people that came across it.
The illustrations are phenomenal. That upped this to 4 stars to me.
A fun read for any kid who is interested in the Santa Fe Trail, Westward Expansion and cattle drives to the west. We had a fun time working on our mapping skills with this book.
Read aloud to girls for school
Hollings is just straight up the best.
The Cottonwood died, and Jed fashioned a yoke from its wood for the head oxen in their wagon train.
I consider it a great choice for teaching the geography of the midwestern to southwestern United States along the Santa Fe Trail, the history of the Santa Fe Trail, Plains Indians, the hunting of bison, and wagon trains.
We are going through Holling's books one at a time, and I love his fictional stories and detailed, educational illustrations that teach much about the geography and history of the United States.
I understand why this book is considered to be a classic and why it has nearly a cult following, however having been written in 1942, it is extremely dated both in writing style and illustrations which will result in very few of today's children being interested in reading it.
Holling Clancy Holling interestingly used a cottonwood tree to illustrate and follow the course of history along the Santa Fe trail from the times of the Indians to the westward expansion of the US.
While this method of writing made history more interesting for young readers, its writing style is frowned upon today.
This is the first one I read and I loved it as a child and enjoy and respect it as an adult.
As it grows and mature, a history rolls by from flint-arrow-shooting Indians without horses, to horse-proud Commanches, to Spanish soldiers to finally American wagoners bent on trade in Santa Fe. Through this, the tree endures until it dies of old age.
Then, finally, it moves as a yoke for the oxen that pull a wagon of goods on the Santa Fe trail.
No one introduced this to me as a child.
Read for Ambleside Online Year 2's geography material. Brought the American plains to life in a vivid way. Beautiful series of books.
I tried explaining what this book was about to my husband and he said, "It's about the adventures of a tree?" Holling C.Holling (Love his name!) is a master at taking an inanimate object and imbuing it with historical interest and surrounding it with relevance. I read this with my kids, as it's technically a picture book. This cottonwood tree is witness to a couple hundred years of American history and even travels the Santa Fe Trail as an Ox yolk. For a good, interesting, history lesson, complete with hand drawn maps of the American West, this book is awesome.
This book, originally published 70 years ago, stands the test of time as a remarkable picture book resource for exploring western history, from the time prior to expansion through several centuries of history. The left page text-B/W-supplementary illustrations-details format throughout contrasts to the right side-full page-artistic illustration of a typical event described in the text. Individual stories across time interconnect in several ways.
A solid story to teach my children about the Santa Fe Trail, as well as Indian/American trade and relations. I'm sure we got more out of it than I'm remembering now, but it didn't grab us quite the same as Paddle-to-the-Sea.
Another lovely book by Holling C Holling. It wasn't quite as endearing as some of his books we have read in the past but it was sweet nonetheless. And we enjoyed the geography and history of the Santa Fe trail.
I loved Holling's books as a kid. While sorting through my books one day, I found this and read it in half an hour. It's a nice way to present a little history and natural science. The illustrations are great too.
Tree in the Trail 10102009 by Holling Clancy Holling
I actually loved this book. The pictures helped tell the story of a tree that saw history. ~ Caleb
This one was a little boring near the end.
3rd time through...love it! ❤
A children's book which is not nearly as good as Paddle to the Sea.
What can be better than history and geography in story form? We read this as part of Beautiful Feet Geography and enjoyed the adventures surrounding the life of this tree.
This book takes an interesting perspective of the life of a tree, from its beginning, the people and groups that live nearby and pass through. Very interesting and beautiful illustrations.
strange, but pretty pictures
Read in third grade and loved it!
