https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11709037-you-are-not-so-smart
That’s why you never give in to a two year old during an extinction burst.“The Just-World FallacyThe Misconception: People who are losing at the game of life must have done something to deserve it.The Truth: The beneficiaries of good fortune often do nothing to earn it, and bad people often get away with their actions without consequences”This is a big one.
Those who have a hard time overcoming this may have this fallacy to blame……“Learned HelplessnessThe Misconception: If you are in a bad situation, you will do whatever you can do to escape it.The Truth: If you feel like you aren’t in control of your destiny, you will give up and accept whatever situation you are in.”This is all about having some control in your life.
I like this book because it's told me that my memory is infallible, that I've made the right decision at every turn, and I'm a completely rational actor who can calmly ignore mental biases -- not like those poor deluded fools he keeps mentioning in his studies. Must be terrible being one of THOSE people.
Here are the episodes that you should listen to instead of reading this book:Deception - http://www.radiolab.org/2008/mar/10/Memory and Forgetting - http://www.radiolab.org/2007/jun/07/Placebo - http://www.radiolab.org/2007/may/17/Morality - http://www.radiolab.org/2007/aug/13/Stress - http://www.radiolab.org/2007/apr/09/Choice - http://www.radiolab.org/2008/nov/17/Also the other ones.
Mmmmm Radiolab.The good thing about YANSS:WYHTMFOFWYMISFA46OWYDY, as I like to abbreviate it, is the sheer accretion of self-delusions.
There are a lot of them, and McRaney presents a compelling case that we are profoundly self-delusional creatures.The bad thing about YANSS:WYHTMFOFWYMISFA46OWYDY is the storytelling.
Plus, if you've ever studied Psychology at all (or listened to Radiolab.
Did I mention that you should listen to Radiolab?), most of this will already be familiar to you.
Very few of the studies that this book describes establish causality.
For example the chapter on why you have too many Facebook friends talks about studies about the limitations of how many people you can hold in a social circle in the physical world and compares these figures to the data on Facebook.
More like your homonculus watches a scratchy silent movie from 1908 with no sound and missing film cells, a friend tells them about the soundtrack over the phone.There are also great chapters on how you think you are better than everyone else out there.
While this makes sense, it means that we subconsciously begin to ignore or dismiss anything that threatens our world views, since we surround ourselves with people and information that confirm what we already think.For example : Hindsight BiasTHE MISCONCEPTION: After you learn something new, you remember how you were once ignorant or wrong.THE TRUTH: You often look back on the things you’ve just learned and assume you knew them or believed them all along "I KNEW IT" !!!
Each chapter identifies a "Misconception" and a "Truth" attempting to persuade the reader to believe "The Truth" as the author sees it...biased and supported with biased, shallow research.
He presents a very subjective, one-sided argument in favor of his beliefs on a variety of so-called "myths" and "facts".For example, one chapter titled "The Bystander Effect" states this misconception When someone is hurt, people rush to their aid and the truth as The more people who witness a person in distress, the less likely it is that any one person will help.
The only conclusion one can glean from this book is that the "misconceptions" and "truths" David McRaney identifies are unprovable.
This is a fun, pop-psychology book that kept me interested from beginning to end.
Experiments have shown that putting wines into bottles with cheap or expensive labels can alter the expectations of wine drinkers and experts alike, thus changing their opinions of wine quality.
I think of this, when I see high-priced headphones of certain brands.Many of the misconceptions are described in terms of classic psychology experiments.
The only problem is that I've read about most of these experiments in other books.
Here I am trying to remember where I read various anecdotes and experiments, and I am at a loss as to where to find them.
Well considering just these two chapters, how can he be so sure that he's correct when he's tell us something that happen to him?
In chapter 7 he "clearly" remembers how "smart" he was when hurricane Katrina was on its way - how he was one of the only people stocking up on weeks' worth of supplies, while others were only getting a couple days worth.
When Hurricane Katrina bore down on my home in Mississippi, I remember going to the grocery store for food, water, and supplies and being shocked by the number of people who had only a few loaves of bread and couple bottles of soda in their carts.
like to think that I know just how advertisers are trying to sway my thoughts and opinions and gain my buying power.
I also like to think that I am in complete control of such things as my thoughts, opinions, and buying power.
But, David McRaney says that I am not so smart.I like to think that I am a good person who would rush to the help of others in an emergency.
McRaney then uses psychological studies and examples to explain the misconception du jour and help us all understand exactly how not smart we are.Fascinating stuff, people.
We think we're really smart, that we are much better than the stupid people around us, but in reality, our brains take shortcuts to make situations easier for us to handle.
This book divulges 48 ways that show we aren't really all that smart.This isn't so much a full review as just my brief impressions.
I thought it was particularly clever how McRaney made sure in each section to say "you are not so smart" at least once; it never came off repetitive or condescending.About the only complaint I have is how some of these 48 examples overlap, such as with Aprophenia and Consistency Bias.
The author, McRaney, reviews 48 different heuristics (mental short cuts) and cites psychological studies to inform us that none of us really think for ourselves, that it is our environment that influences our thoughts and behaviors, that we don't know when we are lying to ourselves, that we only pay attention to the information we believe in and ignore the rest, that we don't understand why we like what we like, that are memories our mostly fiction, and that we have an internal dialogue that convinces us that all this stuff that happens in our head is real, even when it's not.
This awesome read evidences basic theories to a lot more complicated, the obvious to those you never would believe until you read the data....
And we will, the best of us anyways, accept that; understand that as individuals this is the inevitable way for our surviving, and after hating the author for bringing us out of our denial momentarily, lie to ourselves that, no, of course we welcome the truth, thus having to not hate Sir McRaney.
But, with all our new information, data, evidence, insight filed away, although we will never be one hundred percent honest with ourselves, we can be a little more aware so as to reduce it a little to better the daily interactions, relationships, etcetera in our lives.
Being part of the herd is important.The Dunning-Kruger effect - I am smarter/better/prettier than I really am, another aspect of bolstering the self esteem.Apophenia - seeing connections & meaning where none exists.
Any time you quit something cold turkey, your brain will make a last-ditch effort to return you to your old ways.Social loafing in a group, everyone slacks off some.The illusion of transparency belief that others can see what you are thinking & feeling.Learned helplessness after too many failures, animals just quit trying in the same situation.Embodied cognition- the brain, while important, is not the only resource we have available to us to generate behavior.The anchoring effect relying too heavily on the first piece of info no matter its actual veracity or relevance.
If only books like these could be liquefied and piped into the water supply.Fox News and MSNBC would self-destruct, and democracy might become something more than the "least-worst" option.
YOU ARE NOT SO SMART is antifreeze for your thinkbox.Granted, there's nothing new here, but having forty-eight of the most fundamental brain-hacking principles of heuristics theory in one populist, user-friendly package, gives one hope that sanity, rationality, and most of all, humility, will occasionally prevail against the banshee hordes of American unreason.
And employing science to help us laugh at ourselves is the most humanizing of paths to a chastened self-awareness.Grade: E for EdifyingA nice little omni-tool for dismantling the straitjackets of solipsism.
Far better than The Art of Thinking Clearly!
Nói cho vuông thì sách chỉ đáng 3.5* thôi, nhưng vì là sách mượn mà người mượn còn chưa đọc nên mình dúi thêm cho 0.5 * nữa, gọi là Tô có ghi công :sssCuốn sách trình bày về các hiện tượng tâm lý thường gặp (ai hay theo dõi page “10 sự thật thú vị” trên facebook thỉnh thoảng sẽ gặp những bài tương tự và vừa hay, admin của trang cũng đang PR cho cuốn này :))) Chắc do đã đọc nhiều bài viết về lĩnh vực này nên mình không choáng ngợp đến mức sững sờ về nội dung sách :sss Dù vậy, có một cuốn sách tổng hợp lại và Việt hóa triệt để các thuật ngữ tiếng Anh (hay Đức kiểu Baader-Meinhof = thiên kiến xác nhận) thì cũng tiện cho tra cứu và chấn chỉnh bản thân mỗi khi lên cơn vĩ cuồng :3 Đọc xong dễ nảy sinh ham muốn lôi người khác ra test và nghiêm túc tập ngồi thiền, vì rõ ràng, với một tâm trí quá náo động dẫn tới quá tải như tâm trí người phương Tây thì không có gì lạ nếu nó mắc chứng này tật nọ.
Written in a light and humorous tone, You Are Not So Smart is a nice introduction to several different areas of psychology. Never diving too deep into the science, each chapter gives examples and case studies into why we behave and think the way we do. If you are new to psychology, or looking for a light read on the subject, this is a good place to start.
Someone once said, "It is far easier to entertain than it is to educate." What McRaney pulls off with shocking ease, in this book, is that rare combination of educational material that is extremely entertaining.
He also explains the complex in a simple, understandable, and entertaining fashion.
Some of the other pop psychology books go for entertaining, simple, and understandable, but they do so by titillating you in a base manner.
McRaney, to my mind, makes a perfect cut between the two in that it's simple without being base and intellectual without being too professorial.
But it is: it made me think a lot about the way I behave, and showed me some of the hypocritical things we all do -- it made me laugh at myself, actually.It's very easy to understand, but references real psychological experiments and has a reasonably extensive bibliography.
If you're looking to get stuck deep into considering some small aspect of human behaviour, don't pick this: it covers a lot of ground without elaborating beyond the core ideas.It's the sort of book which will probably have you telling your friends anecdotes from it.
I know I've been talking about it a lot, anyway.
Cặp đôi hoàn hảo với cuốn nghệ thuật tư duy rành mạch!Một trong những quyển sách TWIST NÃO nhất từng đọc.
Bạn nghĩ rằng...nhưng thực tế là.Quyển sách khai quật khá nhiều lỗ hỏng điều ẩn chứa trong não, tưởng như vậy mà không phải vậy.Tưởng rằng mình luôn lý trí, nhưng cảm tính lắm em ơi.Tưởng rằng mình sáng suốt, nhưng lại luôn bị MỒI.Tưởng rằng mình logic, ai dè đang CỐ HỢP LÝ HÓA mình thôi.....Nếu đã đọc cuốn này, thì tui nghĩ nên đọc luôn những cuốn1.
Nghệ thuật tư duy rành mạch.Cuốn này gây nhiều khoái cảm cho những người thích dòng sách tâm lý học, tư duy!
Why oh why do I get suckered into pop psychology again and again?This book started out as a blog and maybe it should have stayed that way.
My first thought about this book was, "Wow, so there really IS a reason English teachers tell you not to write in the second person--it is SUPER annoying." An article or blog post at a time isn't so bad, but when we're talking book-length...
A lot of this information has been out there for a long time, cited all over the place in books and articles.
For example:THE MISCONCEPTION: You are a rational, logical being who sees the world as it really is.THE TRUTH: You are as deluded as the rest of us, but that's OK; it keeps you sane.The book goes on to show "how and why we are naturally hindered into thinking in certain ways and not others, and the world around you is the product of dealing with these biases, not overcoming them." I finally was moved to finish this book NOW, because it made clear to me how political affinities work, especially when people embrace a party that largely works against their best interests.
سعيدة أن العنوان جذبني وجعلني أُحمل الكتاب لأسمعه *ــ* مخك يلعب عليك وأنت ياغافل لك الله xD -- نجي للجد، هذا الكتاب يعالج الكثير من الأفكار المسبقة الخاطئة التي نعتقدها ونمارسها بشكل يومي دون أن ننتبه إلى خطورتها على حكمنا وتأثيرها على حياتنا.
كيف يقوم مخك بحذف وتعديل وتغيير ذاكرتك باستمرار ليحولها إلى سلسلة أحداث مرتبطة ومتواصله و “متوافقه” مع أفكارك هذه اللحظة.
كيف يؤثر نجاح الآخرين عليك وكيف يسبب ذلك الإكتئاب وعدم الإنتاجية بل والشعور بالفشل، كيف يقوم المخ بإقناعك بأن الحريق في الطائرة التي أنت بها ليس إلا خيال أو حلم “ حتى تموت أو تخرج من حالة الذهول القاتلة هذه”.
But in fact, we easily mislead ourselves into thinking we have a greater grasp of our reality than we actually do.Some parts were a bit repetitive and could have been combined with other chapters of a very similar nature; other parts reinforced studies I've come across in other books.
They probably won't even notice so stop obsessing over yourself.- If you 'let it go' and vent your anger, you will likely increase in aggressive behaviour.There are plenty of other examples, but I'll leave it there!I can imagine some readers will dislike this book because of their arrogance and they think that it doesn't apply to them.
Helps explain how conspiracy theories come to light - surrounding every monumental event (like the moon landing or 9/11) you will be able to find a ton of suspicious-looking data, because there is a lot of data.* Subjective Validation - in which we give way too much credence to vague statements addressed to us personally, i.e. generic horoscopes* Embodied Cognition - we translate our physical world into words which then affect our judgement.
Written in a interesting form, with a lot of small chapters devoted to a theme.
For example there is no referencing between chapters, even when in one theme of the other is mentioned.
For example author incorrectly stated that Walter Freeman received the Nobel prize for his practice of lobotomy when in fact he nominated his mentor who then received it.But overall, book was very interesting and it introduced me to many weird things my brain does all the time.
I will probably return to it from time to time to read some chapters and to try and preserve some guard against the tricks my brain plays on me all the time.
The basis of this immensely entertaining book is McRaney's blog (which is, unsurprisingly, immensely entertaining).
Each essay opens with a 'Misconception' followed by 'The Truth', and then a thorough explanation.
They don't necessarily build off each other, so you can browse the essays at your leisure, picking what grabs you the most.
McRaney's writing is smart but funny, loaded with tons of fascinating psychological studies and pop culture references.
I found myself missing the illustrations that can be found on McRaney's blog posts but otherwise, I can't complain about this collection.
That would be the Third Person Effect: "Everyone believes the people they disagree with are gullible, and everyone thinks they are far less susceptible to persuasion than they truly are." That was #30, by which time I was a bit less enthralled by the book.It's a clever conceit, gathering digestible summaries and presenting them in easily understandable language, with published studies to back up the conclusions.
I think it probably worked better as a blog rather than a book.
And by #40 (Attention) and on I just reminded myself that there's only 48 of 'em.McRaney is an entertaining writer, and I'd certainly not let this book keep me from reading anything else he published.
The title is misleading; I don't know whether to smile or be annoyed with the author for taking us for such a lovely ride.
He thinks he is "so smart", and indeed, he is so because he chose a catchy phrase like this to sell his book.
The truth of the matter is, the book has nothing to do with who is smart or who is an idiot.
I didn't like the style of the book much, but still it has many good tips here and there.
I'm having a hard time giving this the fifth star because I like to save that last star for books that shake up my world a little.
But in the end I'm giving it up for McRaney.
You may agree with me if you take a perverse pleasure in seeing "common knowledge" sliced and diced with hard facts and data.
It passes one of my personal tests of a good book: long after I finish, (days...months...) the writer's images and ideas are still resurfacing for a little more mulling over.
This is one I'll likely go through again.
