https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/49350.The_Concrete_Blonde
I'm not a big fan of novels about serial killers with distinctive M.O.'s who leave clues in notes sent to the lead detective, particularly when the supposed murderer has already been incarcerated or killed, and the possibility of a copycat--or an original injustice--emerges. Been there. Done that. Squared. But Connelly's novel is so well-plotted and so well-written and features such believable characters and such realistic glimpses into the police detective's world that I was completely won over. Connelly does it right.
A. homicide detective, Harry Bosch, was part of a task force hunting a sadistic serial killer known as the Dollmaker.
Then, lifting up the pillow, he saw that the man had been reaching for a toupee.Once Harry called it in, reinforcements arrived and found solid evidence linking the victim to nine of the eleven killings.
The book thus proceeds along two tracks as Harry stands trial for his actions four years earlier while at the same time hunting a sadistic killer who may or may not have been the real Dollmaker all along.
Harry's refused to plead or settle, and is making do with a lawyer from the D.A.'s office against a top-notch civil rights attorney, Honey Chandler.The tale opens with the very scene where it all began, Bosch and a streetwalker informant watching the apartment of a man who is possibly The Dollmaker, a serial killer who rapes and kills his victims, and then garishly applies makeup to their faces.
The back and forth from the courtroom to solving the mystery of the woman in concrete keep the pace moving.
I'm giving this five stars because I totally raced through it and enjoyed every minute!
Harry Bosch is a really captivating main character who always manages to rise above his problems - just.
Much of this book takes place in a court room which is a setting I normally do not much enjoy.
However this was written so well that even I got drawn in to the awfulness of the process of law.
The ending was a total surprise to me .
Another excellent book by Michael Connelly and I am so glad I still have many more to read.
Four years ago, Harry Bosch shot and killed Norman Church who was believed to be the infamous serial killer, The Dollmaker.
Now, his widow is suing Harry for wrongful death and his career is on the line.
It gets even more complicated when another body is discovered during the trial, supposedly killed by The Dollmaker after Church's death.
My list of primary suspects changed so much I lost count as there were quite a few surprises, twists and red herrings (even Harry gets sidetracked).
Best cop thriller series I've read, and this is the best book in the series so far.
What makes this series so great?
Bosch.
An intriguing character who Connelly writes very well and builds upon book by book.
This series is equal parts cop procedural stuff and character driven greatness.
The latter often gets missed in the genre.
He's a vulnerable, and therefore, realistic character.
He makes mistakes and he has a chequered past (although not overly so).
I look forward to grabbing the next book soon!(Series) Recommended for: Those looking to check out cop thrillers who don't know where to start.
Very good.Crime fiction fans took notice of writer Michael Connelly and his hero detective Hieronymus "Harry" Bosch after the strong first and second books featuring Bosch, The Black Echo and The Black Ice. The two “Black” books were solid, but also had some sophomoric problems that held them back from being truly exceptional.Connelly’s 1994 Bosch book, and third in the series, shows him writing with confidence and flair – this is a writer hitting his stride and stepping up his game.
I'm only on book three, but I think that the style and no-nonsense aspect of the writing, combined with a main character that is both weirdly in tune with himself and his emotions, while still being the stereotypical closed off, masculine type, it's just working for me right now.
This sort of intuitive knowledge about himself is really interesting and I love that Connelly includes it, because it makes Bosch much more real to me than just the hard, detached detective type.
It's easy to see how Connelly was able to hit his stride straight away with "The Lincoln Lawyer" as the courtroom scenes here zip along with ease and add the dreaded "just one more chapter...." syndrome which doesn't bode well late into the night.Bosch as a character is easily able to hold up the story on his own but it is also the added depth of the surrounding cast which add another layer making it all the more engaging.
Whilst it could essentially be read as a standalone, as with most of these types of series books, it adds that something extra knowing a bit about the characters from the other novels.
After the disaster that is The Black Ice, The Concrete Blonde restores my faith in Bosch.It is an excellent book with great detective work as well as tons of red herrings that kept me guessing till the end.
Woohoo!
Season 1 of the TV series borrows some of the plot from this book.
But, while what is kept in the TV series is captivating, the stuff that did not make the cut is even better.
The book also does an excellent job of throwing suspicion on a character which made me fall for it.
The Concrete Blonde also has excellent pacing as well as a satisfying ending.
So, in conclusion, woohoo!
I probably should have started with the first book in the series but fortunately it doesn't matter for the story.Harry Bosch is a very complicated character.
He is a very good and fascinating hero, I would read some other books from Connelly just for Harry Bosch.But if the other books by this author are as good as this one, I won't have to do this only to see the development of the hero.
Harry Bosch is a part in a court case, he is accused of killing an innocent man instead of a serial killer - the Dollmaker.
Towards the end you are geared up to one suspect being the killer but then bang no wrong guy, it's another and again no wrong guy it's really this guy.
Kind of unsatisfying because in the end there isn't a real analysis of the actual killer.
Bosch seemed like an ok character, all round good cop ex-'Nam vet but somehow naive about his own motives and what drives him.
Reviewed at Cross My Heart Writings and ReviewsFour years after killing Norman Church, aka The Dollmaker, Harry Bosch is being sued for wrongful death by the man’s wife.
As Harry defends his actions, another victim’s body is recovered and this one was murdered after the death of The Dollmaker killer casting doubt on Harry’s case.
Harry knows it’s looking bad for him.
Part of the story plays out in the courtroom, revealed through testimonies and Harry’s minefield of thoughts as he filters through all the evidence and possible scenarios, both past and present, contemplating what he is missing.
Hands down, The Concrete Blonde is my favorite of the Harry Bosch series thus far.
Maybe it's just because Harry had the same girlfriend through the whole book and she had been his girlfriend for the year before the book.The mystery in this book was alluded to in one of the prior books in the series.
Since the series seems to be on an annual publication bases that means the idea for this book was rumbling around in the authors mind for a year or more before the book was written.
So far there is no doubt in my mind about moving right on to the next book.
Harry has an MO but knowing that doesn't make things boring.I gave the first two books in the series three stars but I'm giving this one four.
Best yet of this series but a little longer than it needed to be so not quite 5 stars. Great ending that kept the suspense going throughout and a lot of unexpected twists on the way. Like the way that the Bosch character is developing too.
In this novel, Harry is on trial in a civil case for the fatal shooting of an alleged serial killer known as the Doll Maker.
I was wrong, and about as shocked as Bosch!In addition to weaving a great mystery, Connelly paints a reasonably deep picture of his main character, Bosch, a Vietnam veteran (he cleared out enemy tunnels) who is simultaneously cultured but also emotionally damaged.I enjoyed this novel, and look forward to continuing to read about Harry Bosch.Highly recommended for crime fiction fans and read Harry Bosch series in sequential order.
I have read mystery thrillers most of my life, but my husband is lukewarm on a lot of detective type books.
The truth is I couldn't remember if I had read this one or not.
A+ all the way!There is a serial killer, a courtroom drama, Harry's personal life and history all pulled together to make on of the best mystery thrillers ever.If you haven't read this one or any other Connelly novels ,( I can't imagine anyone who hasn't), I highly recommend him.
I would though try to read them in order if you can.
The Concrete Blonde is more of a legal thriller than a police procedural as the plot revolves around the widow of the serial killer shot by Bosch suing the LAPD.
A wrench is thrown into Bosch's defense when more corpses matching the serial killer's MO pop up.
I enjoyed this book more than the first two in the series, although it still hasn't inched up into 4-star territory for me.
Connelly's dialogue is even more natural this time, and the melodrama is at an all-time low, which gives me hope that the series will continue to get better.
Trial parts boring but overall it was good.2  stars for the first half - too much of a victim feel. 4 stars for last half.STORY BRIEF:Four years earlier, a victim escaped from serial killer Church and called the police. Bosch took the call. He feared the killer might have another victim so there was no time to get backup. Bosch went to the room, told Church to freeze, but Church did not comply. He moved to get something under a pillow so Bosch shot and killed him. Bosch then discovered Church wa
4 stars for last half.STORY BRIEF:Four years earlier, a victim escaped from serial killer Church and called the police.
This hurts Bosch’s defense in the trial because Chandler is claiming there was only one killer who is still alive and that Bosch killed an innocent man.REVIEWER’S OPINION:The first half of the book goes back and forth between the trial (telling about the past – not showing) and Bosch’s current investigation of the copycat killer.
Stories need bad guys to pit against the good guys, but I didn’t like the helpless victim feel.Then my reaction changed.
Bosch is represented in court by the overweight Belk from the district attorney’s office, while the widow is represented by hot-shot civil liberties lawyer, Honey Chandler, nicknamed “Money” for her ruthless successes.If this had been simply another courtroom drama I would not have read it; however, on the opening day of the trial when a jury is sworn in, Bosch receives a handwritten note gloating he had got the wrong man, and gives directions on where to find another body: that of a blonde entombed in concrete, with the “signature” marks of the serial killer.
The Concrete Blonde is the 3rd Harry Bosch book, and let me say, it’s brilliant!
What I also observed is that the author's rendition of dialogues has notably improved with this book.And then there’s the compelling characters that Michael Connelly brings to life; starting with Bosch, who’s a determined, smart cop, with great integrity and instincts.
With each book, we seem to learn more about Harry.
Here he questions himself and his actions, wondering if he, Harry Bosch, has a 'black heart'?
Now the astute and ambitious civil lawyer, Honey Chandler wants to proof in court that Harry shot the wrong man.
Did Harry shoot the wrong man?
کتاب بدی نبود.
ولی نمیتونم بگم خیلی عالی بود.
تا آخرین لحظه مظنون رو مخفی نگه داشته بود، ولی نه با هنر نویسندگی؛ بلکه با پنهان نگه داشتن شخصیتها.
در حقیقت خواننده و قهرمان داستان همزمان به شخصیتها مظنون میشدند و این ترتیب فقط به دلیل شدت حضور شخصیت در داستان بود.
اینکه یک نفری گاهی بیاد یک حرفی بزنه و بره، بعد معلوم بشه قاتل اون بوده و هیچ کس فکرش رو نمیکرده ربطی به مهارت نویسنده نداره؛ شخصیت اینقدر توی پس زمینه بود که کسی یاد اون نمیفتاد.خلاصه داستان: هری بوش چهار سال پیش یک قاتل سریالی که زنها
اینکه یک نفری گاهی بیاد یک حرفی بزنه و بره، بعد معلوم بشه قاتل اون بوده و هیچ کس فکرش رو نمیکرده ربطی به مهارت نویسنده نداره؛ شخصیت اینقدر توی پس زمینه بود که کسی یاد اون نمیفتاد.خلاصه داستان: هری بوش چهار سال پیش یک قاتل سریالی که زنها رو میکشته پیدا کرده و بدون دستگیرکردنش کشته.
در کش و قوس این داستان با تمام اسناد و مدارک متناقضش، دوباره جسدی پیدا مییشه که دقیقا شبیه کارهای همون قاتل سریالی بوده؛ با تفاوتهای جزیی و باعث میشه در جریان پرونده این شک بوجود بیاد ککه شاید واقعا کسی که هری کشته قاتل نبوده.حالا هری هم باید توی دادگاه خودش رو ثابت کنه، و هم قاتل جدید رو که احتمالا توی این چند سال قتلهای دیگری هم مرتکب شده رو گیر بندازه......و خوب معلومه که موفق میشه.
I would like to thank the author for the opportunity to read this book**This is the first book by Michael Connelly I have read!
This book is packed full of psychological craziness!
I loved the whole plot of this book and the turn it took.
**SPOILER**I did figure out who the second killer was toward the end by how the author put in a very important clue.
I was like, yes, I finally figured one out!
:) I am so glad I won this book and I will be reading more of this particular series.
The best book in the series so far. A large portion of the book considers a court case revolving around Bosch and the Dollmaker serial-killer, and I found this part at least as good as the parallel investigation. An old case coming back to life, mysterious notes sent to the police, and dead bodies turning up all over again. It's all very mysterious, and it's not clear whether they got the right guy those years back.So far the only thing that annoys me is the titles of the books. I do not like them, but I have no tangible reasons.
In series sequence, this was the first one I liked and soon re-read. The two "Black" books that started the series took a couple tries to get through.
I absolutely love Harry and the way he seeks justice absolutely, but it took me a while to connect with this book because of so many courtroom scenes.
There is a point in this story where Harry spends more page time working on The Dollmaker Case than in the courtroom, and it is at this point that the book really begins to pick up.
This one was killed in the exact same style as The Dollmaker, but due to the nature of the body when it was found, the detectives have to try and figure out if the victim was killed before Harry shot the suspect or after.
Did Harry make a mistake or is their a copycat on the loose?The serial killer plot alongside the court room scenes make for a gripping and balanced mix of police procedural and legal thriller.
It appears that Harry and Sylvia’s relationship is not actually going anywhere.Connelly’s writing has improved with each successive installment.
The action scenes are tighter although he still has the same difficulty that many male authors of thrillers encounter - they know how to write suspense and action, but struggle with expressing the more intimate and romantic emotions.In sum, this is the best book in the series so far and I look forward to finding out what happens next with Harry and company.
I love the Law & Order television series franchise.
And, I am not alone as evidenced by the number of seasons there have been for the three different series.
This book reminds me of that series -- it is ta truly taut police procedural and an intelligent courtroom drama.
Bosch continues to evolve and the author continues to draw Bosch as a hard man to like and an even more difficult man to dislike.
He is brilliant, solitary, hard-edged and vulnerable.
I have purchased the fourth and fifth books and they will be on my "currently reading" shelf very soon.
A solid four stars, whereas the prior two were almost four stars, this was my favorite so far. I still love the hard-boiled elements. I did manage to figure out who the killer was, but since I had about five different suspects, I'm not that impressed with myself ;)
4.5
