https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/173572.Where_Is_God_When_It_Hurts_
I was struggling to deal with the loss of my mother and father, dealing with the loss of my innocence that was so violently ripped away from me, I was a single mother who had just gone through a string of bad relationships and I had lost my faith in God. I wondered why God had abandon me, why He took my parents from me and why I had experienced so many horrible things in my life.
I just needed to open my heart to Him. Once I did, my life changed.
It's amazing how one book can open your eyes and change everything...
In other words, even though it's geared for Christians, this book will not pitch to you - it's a book that you can read and still believe in evolution.Where Is God When It Hurts is primarily directed at people who suffer, but it's also for people who are close to those who suffer (we're mostly talking physical illness here).
If you suffer from physical ailments and are Christian, this book will benefit you.
If you are close to a friend who suffers and is Christian, then you absolutely need to read this, because it will help you learn how to be there for them.
This book is a gem! Yancey does a great job of using real life examples to show the true purpose and benefit of physical pain and emotional suffering. I think this book could be helpful for anyone going through physical, spiritual or emotional pain or for those that want to support someone in pain. Well researched, well written and well done!
From there the book delves into where is God in suffering, examples of suffering people, and then flourishes into an explanation of how God has suffered, the hope that we have in spite of our suffering, how we can use suffering to transform our lives, and why Christianity - of all the world religions - is particularly equipped to handle suffering.Yancey limits his tome to just dealing with people in physical pain and suffering.
It is a hard question that Yancey addresses with particular insight and I feel better equipped for it.My only wish is that I had read this book a long time ago, for I've seen, lived with, and tried to walk through suffering with a lot of people.
Yancey makes some good points: we can't function very well in the world, as creatures, without pain, which warns us of injury or illness when it's physical, and helps bring us together in a caring community when it's emotional.
We can't fully understand God's plans for us, and how pain, suffering, and distress are part of soul-making.
God suffers for us now, suffered for us in the person of Jesus, and walks with us in the presence of the Holy Spirit, even when (and perhaps especially when) we feel most alone and afraid.
But somehow I was left feeling like something was lacking.
Ugh. Watching an intelligent man take a disturbing, unappreciated trait (what is pain, how does it w
كتب دوني التأمل رقم ١٧ في كتابه عن معني اجراس الكنائس وهي من اجمل الفقرات التي كتبت في الادب الانجلي
Book Review: Where is God When It HurtsI've been trying to work through an extremely tall stack of books lately In the past six months, I think I've completed one full book.
I think it was a good thing for me to read through it and process it slowly.There is no better book on the subject of human suffering than Yancey's Where is God When it hurts.
The bottom three are definitely an expression of what I've learned over the past several months living through this thing with Ali.Read this book.
Yancey never gives easy answers to tough questions. He never glosses over what you are feeling. This book was a powerful book about the age old question "How can a loving God allow this?"Yancey gives both practical and biblical answers and advice a style which has bad him on of my parents favorite authors. If you are looking for an honest look at this hard question, pick up this book.
Like Yancey says in his other book, “Prayer,” the GOD actually encourages us to ask HIM and argue with HIM, unlike many Churches teach in these days.
If the GOD is almighty as the Bible says and if the Bible is true, we come to ask a question that where HE was when it hurt.
One of my friends, who was suffering from serious problems in his life, kept complaining about the GOD and asking me where HE was when he was hurting.
However, Yancey tells us that the GOD knows everything and HE is with us when we hurt.
My copy is the original edition, though I expect the core of the book to be much the same as this edition.The book, while not long, has three sections: 1) Why is there such a thing as pain?
He bases this on the work of Dr. Brand, who worked with leprosy victims, people who cannot feel pain and damage themselves.The second section shows some responses to extreme struggles.
It fills a need to understand pain now as much as it did when it was first written.
I read this book a while ago, but the one thing that I remember from it is that pain serves as a warning sign to us human beings that something is wrong with this world- of course we all know that.
That takes us to the core principles of Christianity- God sending His only, beloved Son Jesus to earth to redeem us from our sins, to right all wrongs (including ours) so we can have hope in eternity with Him. Just like when you have a bruise somewhere on your body, pain "protects" you from further harm, telling you to seek help and try to soothe that wound.
If you are in pain and trial, and looking for answer to "why?
I do not deserve all of that, " this book can give you answers.
The answer for that, according to the author, is that God never answered Job when he asked same question, but only lectured him about His wisdom (page 100 and next few pages).
However, you will find answers about the benefits of pain (signals of malfunction, personal growth,..
etc) The author is very verbose.
Same criticism is valid for his other books.
He also copies verbatim from his other books.
This is another very interesting view on problems which hopefully we will never have to face, and it show the strength and the frailty of human beings with an amazing tenderness.Other Witnesses - Phillip Yancey here looks at different people who see suffering in both their personal and professional lives and explores their views on it.
This is kind of a look at how we can help those in extreme suffering as it is often very easy to make things ten times worse.'''Part Four - How can we cope with pain?'''Frontiers of Recovery - Yancey covers different people's responses to pain and suffering in this chapter.
A theological exploration of pain14 January 2014 Disappointment with God seemed to have covered a lot of ground that this book ended up covering and I noted that at the beginning of the other book Yancey had made a comment that he had decided to write Disappointment with God to tackle the issue of, for want of a better word, bad luck in general beyond the issue of physical pain. However as I was reading this book I began to realise that you cannot actually separate the two, and whether it be phy
This book does not seek to solve the problem of pain and suffering (just in the same way that Disappointment with God does not seek to solve it either) however what it does do is that it explores the world in which we live and tries to create a context for us to understand where we currently stand.
In the end I guess that that is the basic moral of this book, and that is that yes, there is pain and suffering in this world, and yes, we are going to be affected by it, and yes, life is unfair, however God also understands this, and if we look at the incarnation of Jesus Christ we can see him going through all of the same experiences that we have gone through.
This book helped me through a large turning point in my life. I've gifted many copies to others.
Many people view pain as God’s one big mistake or as something to be avoided at all costs.
In this book, Yancey points out that pain is a gift from God and that we should be thanking Him for the blessing of pain.
Without pain, they are unable to feel when they are physically hurting their own body, which causes serious injuries.
This book should be read to comfort in times of pain and suffering and to remember that God loves us all at all times and that pain is a good thing.
Thank God for pain.
For instance, after making a good case for Lewis's “megaphone” value of suffering, he goes on to gut it of value: “I do not say God allows suffering because of this megaphone value.” Then why bring it up?Another example: in chapter 8, Yancey says “The suffering person faces choices: she can recoil in anger and despair against God, or she can accept the trial as an opportunity for joy.
We cannot say God brings about the evil in hopes of producing good.” Thus, his first direct answer to the title question is (1) wrong and (2) not comforting.
A comforting book to a person of faith experiencing grief. And I salute Yancey's honesty - he asks the hard questions, even when he doesn't have answers.But that's also the problem. He doesn't have answers, other than giving up and choosing to trust God. This book isn't the reason I stopped believing, but it didn't give me strong reasons to keep believing. To be fair, neither did anyone else, and at least Yancey made an effort to look at reality.
I was like, "FINALLY! Someone with real feelings." Some people act like super Christians. It was refreshing to see a person write from the perspective of a questioning and afraid Christian. It really is okay to wonder sometimes.
This is one of the most powerful books I have been impacted by. I read it shortly after experiencing one of the most devastating losses in my life. I recommend this for anybody who has been, or is, hurting for some interesting perspectives on God's role/place in our lives.
Read it in one sitting. Excellent.
A contemporary re-visitation of the Problem of Pain. Well done. Yancy feels our pain, even if he doesn't have any particular help for it.Worth re-reading.
Having first heard of this book via reference in my daily devotional, I wanted to read it because of the way the title applied:I have had instances of acute pain, and in such have wondered where God fits into that level of hurt.After the hospitalization of a very close family member, I myself have experienced a lot of emotional hurt with all of the changes and challenges that their pain brings.The book focuses solely on physical pain, everything from why pain receptors are an undervalued part of the human body to cases of people in extreme physical pain, how they have endured, and how pain is equally as likely to bring people to God as it is to draw them away.Much of this book had me in near-tears (okay, so I'm pretty sensitive; the case-studies were tough to read through), and also mirrored myself in the things I believe and the ways that I react to pain.For example, in chapter 6 Yancey details "Christian Merit Badges", a passage which details the Christian tendency to view pain as a punishment, or acknowledgement that there is something blocking them, spiritually.
I think for the first time in trying to understand the problem of pain and suffering I realize that we don’t need to focus on the “why” of pain, but instead look forward to what it means in our lives and the lives around us.This book is certainly worth reading and rereading for anyone.
This makes this book an anomaly in that people of different faiths, education levels, experiences, ages, and lifestyles could read this book and find insights that, if taken to heart, could completely change the way a person thinks about and talks about suffering and even death.
There are times when we are so troubled by challenges, obstacles and medical conditions in our lives that we can't seem to see the light at the end of the tunnel.
We pray and seek God but we are still bogged down by all our troubles and pain that God seems so distant.
Yet we should be assured that God is always there, for He is always faithful.
I find this book especially useful in encouraging those in need.
Or we could be shaky in our faith and need some affirmation of our belief in the Almighty God and who He is.
Throughout his book Yancey has cited several stories of actual people who have suffered from or continue to suffer from long term disability, terminal illnesses, chronic pain, situations of utter helplessness and loss of a loved one.
Overall, I am glad I read this book, it has helped me gain a whole new perspective on pain and suffering, and why God designed this unpleasant experience to be an integral part of the human experience.
And no matter how cruel it may seem to those suffering, God is always there and one day everyone will be made whole again.This book is not a light read, the author has explored the subject of pain and suffering and God’s part in it scrupulously.
This was an interesting read about suffering and pain.
The author begins with a discussion of the body, how pain works to protect it, and what happens when the system designed to protect no longer functions.
Then he carried that through to suffering, sharing many stories of various tragedies and difficulties.
I appreciated his humility, recognizing that suffering itself is a journey and each person proceeds at their own pace.
I also liked that he included concrete examples of what not to say or do as well as ideas on what to say or do, whether the person is you, a loved one, or an acquaintance.
Fairly deep and balanced viewYancey pulls in multiple sources and types of sources to give the reader a good engagement of the issue of pain and suffering and faithful response. He avoids the easy trap of looking to the afterlife to explain it all away which is common in American Christianity today while still acknowledging the reality of this life's temporary nature. It is well balanced between giving some answers and recognizing that there are no easy answers.
This book was okay. There are some good points: about the purpose of physical pain from a biological perspective; how the church body can reach out to those who are suffering. Yancey talks about the hope of heaven after we leave this broken road, yet he does not clearly present the whole Gospel (of our need for redemption through Jesus and Him being the only means of obtaining eternal life with God in heaven).
