https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/49552.The_Stranger
I wasn’t in the least bit bored.A constant theme in my life at present is that I read ‘classics’ expecting them to be about something and they end up being about something completely different.
To the priest the prisoner who is facing death is – by necessity – someone who is interested in God. You can play around with ideas like the non-existence of God when it doesn’t seem to matter (life is long and blasphemy can seem fun) – but surely when confronted with the stark truth of the human condition any man would turn away from their disbelief and see the shining light.Not this little black duck.
This raises the question of whether one should be expected to exhibit certain characteristics in certain situations to "keep their humanity".
Constantly, Meursault is being told he must live and/or act a certain way, whether it be by the judge, his lawyer, or the priest.
If they manage to declare him "inhuman", it allows them to call themselves human and justify their own means of living.In the end, this book is one that raises many more questions than it answers, but in true philosophical fashion, they are really questions without answers.
Camus’ subtle irony, a statement on how death is an irritating inconvenience in the urbanized modern world of shipping offices, where time is money and the highest value is utility and efficiency.Then, when Meursault sits beside the Home’s keeper in the room with his mother’s coffin, we read: “The glare of the white walls was making my eyes smart, and I asked him if he couldn’t turn off one of the lamps.
ولحظة قتل ميرسو للشاب الجزائري لو استعدناها، تعبر بالضبط عن الفكرة التي أشرت إليها، فميرسو تحت الحرارة الشديدة، والشمس المسلطة عليه، ولمعة خنجر الشاب الذي لم يكن يهدده جدياً، قام بإطلاق النار وقتل الشاب، فلذا عندما سُأل في المحكمة عن سبب قتله للشاب، كانت إجابته حقيقية، إنها الشمس، لقد كانت الشمس تضايقه بالفعل، لقد أثرت على اتخاذه للقرار، ولن نفهم هذا من دون فهم تأثير الوجود المادي للإنسان على روحه وتصرفاته وأفكاره.
Aujourd'hui, maman est morte. Ou peut-être hier, je ne sais pas.الحياة لا تساوى أي عناءهذا هو الشعار الأعظم لفلسفة اللامبالاةتلك الفلسفة التي يتمسك بعضنا بها كطوق نجاة أخيرتلك الفلسفة التي أتمسك أنا بها كطوق نجاة أخيرلا يعرف أبدا أي بشري هذه الفلسفة حتى يتألم ألما عظيماإما أن يقضي عليهوإما يعيد بعثه من جديدوميرسو هنا وضعه مختلفإننا لا نعرف ما الذي أصابه ليصير هكذاإنه يحمل كل أوجاع البشرية وكل سؤال أطلقه الانسان في الفراغربما لم يصبه شيءربما ولد كبش فداء ربما جاء إلى هذا العالم ليفعل ما لم يجرؤ ا
ماري..المحامي ..القضاة ..الكاهنإنه ينتظر أن ينهي أحدهم حديثه الذي لا يعنيه في شيءحتى يأكل أو يشرب أو ينامإنه منفصل تماما ‏عن المجتمعيبدو إذن للعين الناقدة مجرد شخص أناني وكسول ومتبلد ‏العاطفة‏ ولكن ميرسو لم يجد في حياته ما يثير ‏اهتمامهوهو لا يستسلم عن ضعفوإنما لغياب المعنىإنه لامبالاته تلك تكنيك دفاعي لم يجد سواه يناسبهبل لم يعرف حتى أنه تكنيك دفاعيفهو لا يشغل دماغه بتحليل ما يفعلأو بالأحرى ما لا يفعلإنه شخص تحرر من كل سجن عاطفي أو إنسانييودع أمه دار مسنينلا يحزن على موتها ولو لدقيقةلا يبالي بهذا العربي الذي قتلهولا بأنه سيقتل بسبب فعلتهلا يتشبث بحياته ولا يحاول الدفاع عن نفسهبل يغرق في حواراته الداخليةويصمت وينعزل عن الجميعإنه إذن غريب ‏يعيش فى عالم لا ينتمي ‏إليهلا ‏يفهمه المجتمعلا يتعاطف معهبل ربما يحاكمه الجميع بسبب غرابته وبروده‏لا بسبب جريمة قتلإنه ‏اللامعنى الذي يسكنه ويخيف الآخرين‏ الخواء الذي يستسلم له ويرعبهمإنه الاختلاف يا سادةهذا هو ما كان يحاكم عليه‏::::::::::::::::::::::وكأن تلك ‏الغضبة الكبرى قد خلصتني من الشر وأفرغتني من ‏الأملفي ذلك ‏الليل الذي يفيض بالنجوم أحسست للمرة الأولى ‏بعذوبة ورقة ‏اللامبالاة وأحسست أنني كنت سعيدا في يوم من ‏الأيام ولازلت ‏حتى الآنأتمنى أن ينتهي كل شيء وأتمنى أن أكون هناك أقل وحدة ‏من ‏هنا‎ــــــــــــ
Why should I bother?"And we have to assume that he answered the questions, "There is no point".Achieving Your Own MortalityThere was no point in prolonging his life and, not believing in Heaven, there was no point in seeking eternal life.He had lived a life (however long or short, however good or bad, however satisfying or unsatisfying) and it didn't really matter that his life might come to an end.The point is that, sooner or later, all life must come to an end.By failing to take a "positive" step on his own behalf, he effectively collaborated in and achieved his own mortality.
Not a hero or an antihero, Meursault is the stranger par excellence, alien to all the emotional manifestations that are common to humans, more similar to an Asimovian android than to a man.A small book that is consumed in one day, but it eats away at you for weeks.Vote: 8"Lo Straniero" mi è stato suggerito dal protagonista di un altro libro, Noi siamo infinito di Stephen Chbosky.
In realtà se ne citano tanti di libri, in "Noi siamo Infinito", ma "Lo Straniero" è quello che più ha incuriosito il protagonista ed il sottoscritto.Meursault è un modesto impiegato di origine francesi che vive ad Algeri.
When I first read this eons ago, I assumed “the stranger” was the Arab man that the main character kills on the beach.
I said that people never change their lives, that in any case one life was as good as another…” At his trial for the murder, he feels that the prosecutor and his lawyer are arguing in a way that has nothing to do with him.
He has a surge of feeling that he is dying to say something but then thinks “But on second thought, I didn’t have anything to say.” When he’s convicted and sentenced to death, he also acts as if it’s no big deal.
THIS MAN'S MOM DIES HE FEELS NOTHING.come to my blog!
If every few words of praise I’ve seen for “The Stranger” over my lifetime materialized into small chunks of rock in space, there’d be enough sh!t to conjure up the Oort Cloud.
And just like the Oort can occasionally spit a chunk of sh!t at the earth and devastate all life upon it, so too can I hear/read some lip service paid to “The Stranger” resulting in my transition to Freak-Out Mode, resulting in me slapping someone in the face, usually someone I have to deal with again at some point in time (if only in court).
I just finished reading this famous - classic story.
Does it matter who we marry or if we marry?
Does it matter if we live or die?
This book reminds me- "that life is a game".
We 'add' meaning to "what is".
and Camus's main character, Meursault, doesn't blindly accept conventional meaning which is often impose on the world.
It accepts it all.
we, the reader, are left to draw many of our own conclusions-or not -but we are certainly invited to take a look at the deeper meaning of life.
y'know it's quite impressive that Camus managed to write a whole novel from the perspective of that guy who you always avoid at house parties.
‘It was like knocking four quick times on the door of unhappiness.’Even if we exist in a world devoid of meaning, why is it that our actions still bear so much weight?
This murder, and the absolutely brilliant final line of ‘knocking four quick times on the door of unhappiness’—one of my favorites in all of literature—propels the reader into Part Two. Here we have find Meursault denied the sunsoaked scenes of nature and friendship of the outside world, and the sexuality so rampant in part one as he finds himself now beset by the cold indifferent stone walls of prison.
The novel begins with the words:"Mother died today.
Or yesterday maybe, I don't know." The laconic style sets an invariable counterpoint to the poetic, occasionally ornamented artistic language.Albert Camus gilded as one of the most important literary and philosophical thinkers of the post-war period.
The novel is an absurd work, up to the last sentence.
He is also in the position in which the death-journey of a man who has already stagnated in life, who recalls, at the moment of the expected death, that life whose level is not retarded, war for many the conscience of France.An absolute classic of world literature!
I cannot help comparing the hollowness, the emptiness in Meursault’s soul to the soldier in Hemingway’s short story “Soldier's Home”.
But in that story, Hemingway describes a change from the war and his reactions are connected with his recent martial experiences.
Camus makes no mention of Meursault’s past experience, his emptiness is fundamental to his soul, and his reaction is to the world in general.
Camus introduces us to his ideas about absurdity, abut how futile it is for us to try, desperately and mostly irrationally, to make sense out of the universe, to try and parcel out a small lot of order amidst a sea of chaos.
579. L'etramger = The Outsider = The Stranger, Albert CamusL’Étranger (The Outsider [UK], or The Stranger [US]) is a 1942 novel by French author Albert Camus. Its theme and outlook are often cited as examples of Camus' philosophy of the absurd and existentialism, though Camus personally rejected the latter label.عنوان: بیگانه؛ نویسنده: آلبر کامو؛ انتشاراتیها: (فرخی، نیلوفر، نگاه، معرفت، گلشائی، کتابسرا، نشر مجید، نشر مرکز، ماهی، هرمس، کوله پشتی، دنیای نو، جامی) ادبیات فرانسه؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش:
چکیده: داستان یک مرد درونگرا به نام «مرسو» ست که مرتکب قتلی می‌شود و در سلول زندان در انتظار اعدام خویش است.
در قسمت اول: مرسو در مراسم تدفین مادرش شرکت می‌کند، و در عین حال هیچ تأثر و احساس خاصی از خود نشان نمی‌دهد.
مرسو به عنوان انسانی بدون هیچ اراده برای پیشرفت در زندگی، ترسیم می‌شود.
همسایهٔ مرسو که ریمون سنته نام دارد، و متهم به فراهم آوردن شغل برای روسپیان است با او رفیق می‌شود.
در این جا شخصیت اول داستان، برای نخستین بار با تأثیری که بی اعتنایی و بی تفاوتی برخوردش بر دیگران می‌گذارد، رو به رو می‌شود.
Mersault, a twenty-something clerk of great intelligence but no ambition, little expressed emotion and the attitude of why bother changing or making a choice, there's nothing wrong with the status quo.
Or whe his violent pimp of a neighbour wants him to compose a letter to his mistress that is meant to result in extreme nastiness towards her (but backfires), he will act.
These people, his late mother's aged fiance, the pimp, his angry boss, the girlfriend who loves him, the mistress who fights back, the Arabs full of thoughts of revenge, the religious lawyer, are full of passion.
Ένας κοινωνικά αντισυμβατικός και αντιφατικός άνθρωπος, που αφενός ζει και απολαμβάνει την καθημερινή ρουτίνα του χωρίς καμία αλλαγή και παράλληλα ειναι ένας άψογος εργαζόμενος που τηρεί ωράρια,πρωτόκολλα-εργασιακούς κανόνες και τυπικές κοινωνικές σχέσεις, αφετέρου αρνείται να πει το παραμικρό ψέμμα,αδιαφορεί για τα πιστεύω και κυρίως τα συναισθήματα των άλλων,είναι απομονωμένος κοινωνικά,συμπεριφέρεται αλόγιστα,επιπόλαια,απαθέστατα και αγχώνεται με οποιαδήποτε συμπεριφορά ειναι απρόβλεπτη απο τον ίδιο.
Είναι σαν να ζει μέσα σε ενα ενυδρείο με ζεστό και φιλικό για τον ίδιο στερεότυπο περιβάλλον απο το οποίο παρακολουθεί με απάθεια και αδιαφορία οτιδήποτε συμβαίνει εξω απο αυτό και παρόλο που του δυσκολεύει τη ζωή εκείνος αρνείται ενστικτωδώς να παραδεχτεί τα κοινώς αποδεκτά.
It came as something quite shocking which left me dazed for days.
I don't consider myself worthy enough to review this book because I won't be doing justice to this book, at all.
This book has left me in a certain distress with so many questions to ponder upon.
And sometimes I think if this book can be reviewed at all.
The prose of Camus is very simple and eloquent, and is a pleasure to read, but he raises some philosophical questions a layer beneath his beautifully crafted novella which leaves you pondering deeply.
Anna Karina con Mastroianni.Basterebbe poco per evitare la condanna a morte, basterebbe anche una semplice confessione d’angoscia, basterebbe dire, ho sparato ma non volevo farlo, l’arabo era armato, mi ha spaventato, ho solo voluto difendermi – in fondo Mersault è bianco, ha ucciso un arabo, il giudice e i giurati sono pronti a riaccoglierlo nel consesso umano se solo lui mostrasse una traccia di rimorso, qualsiasi cosa che lo restituisca all’umanità, alla presunta normalità, che lo riavvicini al cristo in croce (la scena col giudice istruttore e quella finale col prete in carcere!).Ma Mersault non sa fingere, neppure per salvarsi la vita riesce a falsificare la sua verità emotiva.
This laudable writing explores the numerous possibilities of human life while acknowledging its absurdities.Albert Camus brilliantly introduces the indifference of the world towards its inhabitants through the title character, Meursault's withdrawal from his surrounding society.
Yet the society forces rational explanations on Meursault's doing and makes decisions for his life.Our comprehension of life is overshadowed by the inevitability of our eventual demise.
As Meursault realises there is indeed no higher value to his or any human life and that happiness has nothing to do with this revelation, he rejects illusory hopes and intends to make the best of the days left to him..
Secondly, the very glaring message of indifference rather fires back against Camus's message of non-conformity.
You see, indifference, transforms a person in a passive state.
Indifference is tricky because you're stranded in a solid state of passivity and it's very hard to sway you from one view to another.
What did other people's deaths or a mother's love matter to me; what did his God or the lives people choose or the fate they think they elect matter to me when we're all elected by the same fate, me and billions of privileged people like him who also called themselves my brothers?
“Mother died today. Or, maybe, yesterday; I can't be sure.” The Stranger is a 1942 novel by Albert Camus, often cited as a prime example of Camus' philosophy of the absurd and existentialism. The story's protagonist Meursault is an indifferent French Algerian, who hardly partakes of the traditional Mediterranean culture. Meursault's initial musings at the very beginning of the story are the groundwork of the plot, as his indifference at his mother's funeral baffles everyone present there.As a m
Meursault's initial musings at the very beginning of the story are the groundwork of the plot, as his indifference at his mother's funeral baffles everyone present there.As a matter of fact, Meursault lack of emotional response is the basis of the novel.
"In our society any man who does not weep at his mother's funeral runs the risk of being sentenced to death."-Albert Camus on L’ÉtrangerThe story tells us of a world where a man who doesn't play the game(i.e. does not bow down to social norms) is most likely to be shunned by society and even persecuted for his choices.
The world's Meursaults are each a stranger to society and they're met with disbelieving eyes, even if they're honest.
In most college courses on Existentialism (a philosophy which holds that human beings create the meaning and essence of their own lives) The Stranger is usually the first thing you will read.
If you're interested in philosophy, or Existentialism specifically, The Stranger is a great place to start.Camus describes Meursault, the main character, only sparingly; and for the majority of the novel Meursault holds no real opinion about anything, and neither does anything (even the death of his own mother) effect him very much.
The OutsiderAlbert Camus  In spite of my willingness to accept this glaring certainty, I simply couldn't. Because, in reality, from the moment judgement was passed, the evidence my sentence was based on seemed ridiculously out of proportion to its inevitable conclusion.  What or perhaps who is an Outsider? One who doesn’t conform to the norms set out by society. Who makes his choices irrespective of contemplating their probables outcomes as per society or simply one who acts as life props up. Mo
Camus says that once we become conscious of our absurd life, we should embrace it and should continue to explore and search for meaning of life.The protagonist, Meursault, here doesn’t possess any of the seemingly natural tendencies.
The narrator may come across as someone quite oblivious to the world and it seems to be quite abhorrent to most of the people, for one is supposed to behave in a certain way on certain occasions and when someone loses his mother, he is supposed to show emotions which are considered natural as per society.
Pareciera como si Camus hubiera querido reescribir el final de aquella.A ver si no (cuidado, a partir de aquí destripo el argumento de la novela):Antes del suceso que lo cambia todo, las vidas de los protagonistas de ambas novelas transcurren en una monotonía apacible, nada apasionante pero tampoco desagradable, incluso placentera en sus pequeñas cosas.
Nada importa, las relaciones humanas son fantasmas sin trascendencia, nada es relevante, da igual una cosa que otra.Pero, y aquí está el gran cambio, la respuesta de Meursault ante su recién descubierta “inhumanidad” no podía diferir más de la del insecto de Kafka.
I was so amped about this book when I tore through it a few weeks ago; alas, in that yawning chasm of time between then and when I first sat down to start this review (as opposed to this most recent effort -- I think at least my fourth?), I found that I’d forgotten a lot of the specific reasons why it had hit all the right spots for me.
But by the time he shares his belief that no one has a right to cry over his Maman when being so close to death allowed her a peace that simply does not exist in the bloom of life, Meursault's own minimal relevancy to the world is nearing its close.
Writing about your favourite and the most influential single book of your life—not that that means anything—is a little like staring into the sun, the same sun here in an Australian suburb as that of an Algerian beach: so I shall squint, if you don’t mind.Firstly, Sandra Smith’s work is excellent.
I am learning French, starting this year, with the express intention of one day reading this book as the author wrote it.
But to people he cares for, he is himself.When he looks at the world his descriptions of a plain Sunday afternoon are almost like a beautiful impressionist painting.
I'd highly recommend it to anyone.BASIC STORYThis book is about an autistic man who ends up on trial for murder.THOUGHTSCamus famously said "In our society any man who does not weep at his mother's funeral runs the risk of being sentenced to death."This basically sums up the whole novel.Our protagonist, Meursault, is pretty apathetic to anyone else's feelings and only cares about his own comfort and happiness.
This doesn't ALWAYS happen, but I've found it generally to be true.TWO: He didn't cry at his mom's funeral, and he did things like drink coffee and smoke a cigarette.
اگر هم به دیگران محبت می کنه، برای لذتیه که محبت برای خودش داره.این مرحله، عموماً در سال های ابتدای زندگیه، در دوره ی کودکی.در مرحله ی دوم، به تبع تربیت خانواده و اجتماع، یاد میگیره که باید گاهی از چیزی که میخواد دست بکشه و به چیزی کلی تر، به نام "وظیفه" یا "قانون" عمل کنه.
بنا بر این، اگه کسی مثل "مورسو" به پوچی رسیده باشه و در نتیجه ی این پوچی، به مرحله ی اول برگشته باشه، فکر نمی کنن که آیا واقعاً چیزی به نام پوچی در واقع هست یا نه؟ فکر میکنن چطور باید مشکل روحی این فرد رو، فارغ از این که دنیا در حقیقت چطوره، حل کرد.اما فیلسوف این رو نمی گه.
