https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1269436.Time_Is_the_Simplest_Thing
And yet despite this, the book has a hopeful tone, a sense that there will always be people who push back against prejudice and stupidity and force us to grow.The language is also gorgeous--Simak deftly paints one beautiful picture after another in every scene.
You have a vivid sense of place and people without ever getting bogged down in long descriptions.The weak point is the plot: a lot of the scenes feel disjointed rather than building on each other.
Despite this being a journey story, where Shep is going and what he hopes to accomplish keeps changing, and often feels unimportant.
Although the title suggests a time-travel tale, this is actually a story about persecuted paranormals, standing in a tradition with Stapledon's Odd John (1935) at one end and X-Men, The 4400 and Heroes at the other.
He travels through a little-changed small-town America (Simak's habitual terrain), looking for purpose, dodging not only his employer's pursuit but the blind prejudice and mob violence of ordinary people.It's in this persecution that Simak's characteristic sadness about the human condition comes through.
The attempts of Blaine and others to create understanding between the inevitably factionalised populations, parries and normals, are seen to come to naught: small-minded prejudice, ignorance and fear, Simak seems to suggest, are beyond the ability of reason and goodwill to defeat.
My main problem with Simak's story, however, is that we never learn precisely just how Fishhook has managed to bring back all those alien goods to Earth, when our explorers are only visiting those planets mentally.
Simak could easily have revisited this fascinating story line of his for a justifiable follow-up tale, but no; this was one author who never wrote a sequel to any of his 29 novels, preferring to always come up with something fresh and original.Still, for what it is, "Time Is the Simplest Thing" remains a satisfying experience, and, as I say, a right-on one.
Not my favorite Simak. Hotbeds of activity are over the border in Mexico, and then Pierre, South Dakota, really? And what does the man have against contractions? Still, interesting ideas, terrific exploration of human nature in regards to things it doesn't understand and to which it develops a fear."For it was authority that made men suspicious and stern-faced. Authority and responsibility which made them not themselves, but a sort of corporate body rather than a person."Give me Simak over Heinlein any day.
Людина звикла бути сильнішою. У всі часи людина знаходила спосіб бути сильнішою за природу, інших істот.. Але що коли поруч з людьми з'являться "істоти" сильніші за неї, хоч і не бажаючи людині нічого погано, чи зможе сама людина усвідомлюючи це співіснувати з потенційно сильнішою у мирі? А що взагалі робити коли Ти інакший?Дуже цікава роль корпорації в цій книзі.. Про наростання незадоволення з однієї сторони і бажання все контролювати з іншої.. Надзвичайно цікава історія і не менш відпадние закінчення ;)! Рекомендую!П.С.Будь які крайнощі згубні!
Fifth Simak novel that I've read. I feel of those, this is his most aggressive in tone. He crams a lot in the plot and yet, sometimes it is still surprising. At times a little too esoteric. The ending (last couple of chapters) for example, is a struggle to get through. This is less about mental powers than the fear that humans have of the Other and the control that corporations exert. Human development story with social commentary. Add a little fugitive escape and evasion. Stir. Good for Simak fans and Vintage maniacs.
Storyline: 2/5Characters: 2/5Writing Style: 3/5World: 4/5 What happens when science fails to live up to society's expectations?
Through a fairly simple plot - basically an extended chase scene - the book showcases excellent science fiction writing.Simak, here, is weak with the micro-level: the characters are shallow, the individual action scenes are not particularly dramatic, and the "other" is far too familiar.
When zoomed out, however, the work excels in projecting the future of mass social behavior, the path of an economic system, and the revolting reaction to genuinely alien ideas.
It is one of those science fiction works that stands the test of time.
I got this book from my local libary when i devoured the SCI-FI section not long after i found how much i loved reading.
by   Read on 9/2 to page 154, on 9/10 to The End. It was ok, two stars. I recommend it to classic or "Golden Era" science fiction fans although it may have a wider appeal. We begin our novel with humanity's final understanding that the dream of space is fatally flawed and no advance in our science or efforts will ever allow these feeble human bodies to withstand the massive dangers of space.On a personal level I really connected with this. Since my youth I've always believed there will come a
As we are thrust into the story proper, Fishhook is a massive private corporation and our protagonist Shepard Blaine is on a planet 5000 light years from Earth believing he is approaching some relic of intelligence.
IF this happens, THEN you must do this.Much of the rest of "Time is the Simplest Thing" is about Shepard Blaine’s breathless and desperate attempts to escape Fishhook and their long reach covering the entire Earth.
There are plots and subplots and ever volatile decisions that consistently shift the course of Shepard Blaine's expatriation.One of my most moving moments was when I linked up in the story why it is titled "Time is the Simplest Thing".
Space exploration with the mind, good aliens, bad aliens, and a societal backlash against paranormal humans (and subsequent commentary on civil rights) - this once serialized book has all of this and more.
It also felt a bit preachy, a bit scattered and lacked a solid conclusion.So how did I really feel?
This book was originally serialized, and at times it felt like short stories in that world.
Most had their own conclusion; the book as a whole didn't seem to, and the solution chosen by the main character wasn't great.
I really liked the handling of Time, though the main character could have used these solutions more.
It was a short book so I stuck with it.Basically, Shep Blaine is a paranormal who is used by an organization called Fishhook to explore the stars.
Fishhook continued working with science and discovered that paranormals with the assistance of star machines could explore the universe without leaving Earth; their minds and a recording machine of sorts would do this exploration and bring back anything useful that was discovered.
I still have some of his books to read and will try again but this wasn't one of his successes in my mind.
“A good newspaper man sticks out the neck whenever there is need to.”Imagine a Harry Potter world where the muggles not only knew magicians existed but feared and hated them.“It had taken the orderly mind which science had drummed into the human race to make [paranormal kinetics] finally work.”As usual, lots of preaching.
(Do you know what a “lunch pail” is?)“A good idea to have a line of retreat laid out.”Premise: man is trapped.
Simak’s essentially correct, man is trapped on earth.
Decades of science fiction notwithstanding, humans will never walk freely on the Moon nor Mars even if they were terraformed to earth-likeness because both lack a magnetosphere.
As an aside, I wouldn't think that Simak had any particular subliminal message in mind when he created Fishhook but, in this modern world, one can't help but be concerned about the perils of allowing untrammeled corporate growth to blossom into pure monopoly.This is a thoroughly enjoyable tale from the 50s and 60s classic pulp sci-fi era and a wonderful example of Simak's fertile imaginings as to how time travel might be experienced in the future.
Leyendo me he dado cuenta de puntos en los que no tenía mucho sentido el texto y creo que se debe a una mala traducción al español.En esta novela tenemos un mundo muy esotérico, con personas con poderes paranormales y fanáticos que los persiguen.
Tenemos un protagonista que va dando vueltas de un sitio a otro sin sentido.
Sus acciones, sobre todo en la segunda mitad, no se guían por sus intereses personales sino por los de la narración.
Eso me ha echado muy para atrás y es lo que me ha impedido acabar la novela más rápido.
The protagonist, Shepherd Blaine, is a "parry" who works for them.
When he meets the Pinkness on a planet 5,000 light years away, he realizes the time has come to escape Fishhook.
The Pinkness has shared its mind with him, which means that he now has the memories of a being who has lived millions of years and telepathically visited millions of planets.
For him, time really is the simplest thing; he doesn't believe in death, sees no point in it.With Blaine's knowledge, Fishhook could become obsolete, so he is on the run.
So far, these principles include:- believability: I can absolutely suspend my disbelief, but please remain true to the universe you have created.- S is for Science, but don't overload me with it, because I won't understand it and then I'll stopped reading.- F is for fiction but not for Fantasy, so don't trick me into picking up a fairy book (which is okay in its own place!).- Earth: I'm an earthling so I prefer my home planet to be some part of your landscape, although I'm perfectly willing to travel.
I last read this Simak classic decades ago but it all came flooding back whilst reading it. He has written better novels than this, particularly Way Station, but this is ahead of its time. All about persecution, corporate greed and who to trust. It is all about a hope for mankind. It is typical Simak who always favours the small man/woman is his story telling.Ray Smillie
Decades ago, I read this and realized it before I was past the first 30 pages. But I skim read it anyway.It's way before its time. But I find too many "buts" going through my head about impossibility to facts we know now (physical and mental about humans and about space itself)- to enjoy this as it should be taken.The premise of a mind meld is absolutely superlative. That's for sure.
This was also excellent! It was tense & exciting and despite being published decades ago it seemed fresh and interesting. I also liked that it ended in a complex way, not a wrapped-up, kum-ba-yah, happily ever after.
This book is possibly one of the defining stories of humanity using technology to allow itself to do things physically impossible.In this Simak shows an alchemist society colliding with a religious and how the intolerance and fear engendered becomes poisonous to both.
The brilliance of Clifford Simak, whom I only discovered this year, continues to dazzle me. His work is on a par with Philip K Dick.
I loved this book. I had read Way Station by Clifford Simak and enjoyed it a lot but this book is far better. My next read will be The City.
In this novel these landscapes seem tacked on here and there instead of being a flowing backdrop to a deeper story.
I don't remember reading this novel before but I think I would have enjoyed it much more if I had read it when it was published in 1961 and I was 14 years old and much more interested in plots based on ESP.
As I got older and saw that there really wasn't much evidence I lost interest in ESP from a factual as well as SF viewpoint.
Like many of his contemporaries of the period Simak also wrote a lot of terrific short stories.
The next biggest problem is the whole basis of Simak's society: science has failed at getting man into space, therefore it's been discredited and magic has taken its place.
Magic hasn't take its place in this book.
Heck, they have atomic cars and a fully technological society (which hasn't changed from the 1960s, so even that's pretty bad).
And finally, because of the space/science thing, the common people have reverted back to a Dark Ages mindset.
He couldn't care less about science.
So, with all these failures in the book, I'm rating it at a Pretty Bad 2 stars out of 5.
And there was his Time is the Simplest Thing just waiting for me to pick it up.
Time travel or the manipulation of time, I'll love it.Well, it was interesting, but not for the reasons that I'd anticipated.
It could have had so much more oomph, but it is a product of the time.What did it have?
The story itself was interesting.
The ideas were interesting.
No personal communication devices.
No personal computers.
Yes flying cars.
Yes, genetically modified foods.While it was interesting, it was not interesting enough to recommend.
It has not stood up to the passage of time.
For the premise and working out the implications of it, for the psychological development of the characters and the sociological comments on a society that develops in the way that this one does, in short, for the ideas here, five stars. Less one star for some of the writing, which when not at its best, seems a bit forced and overly didactic. If Goodreads would allow, I would take back just half a star.
Simak posits a universe in which homo sapiens is too vulnerable to radiation to travel into space.
The protagonist, Shepard Blaine, is forced to leave the one place where he feels at home and go on the run.
Simak develops this premise into a novella which is part spy thriller, part commentary on how humans react to strangers and to strangeness in ourselves, and part "coming of age" story for Blaine and humanity.
Simak's themes are universal but though-provoking, and though the social commentary seems a bit too pat, the work as a whole is satisfying.
A bit forgettable.
5 out of 5
Earth's top telegraphic space traveler has mind infected by an alien. Not bad.
