https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/882508.I_Married_a_Dead_Man
For those who've read a lot of the great author's work it is fabulous, but others may have some difficulty getting into the style and flow.
It floods her heart with a feeling of acceptance, because supper is a term used informally, with family; only when we dine with others, or go out in the evening, does it become dinner.The premise is simple, the execution extremely difficult.
Perhaps only Woolrich could have written something like this and made it work.
A mesmerizing read for Woolrich fans, but most definitely not the book I'd recommend as your first exposure to this great author, who in my opinion, eclipsed all others of suspense.
This first edition hardcover has the original $2.75 price on the dust jacket and is marked "First Edition" on the copyright page. I read this book in the Centipede Books edition.
I just ran across this first edition of "I Married a Dead Man" in a box of books I had put into the back room perhaps ten or so years ago. The book is J. B. Lippincott Company, A Story Press Book, copyright 1948. Stated First Edition.The book still had the sales receipt in the back and it seems that I paid $2.98 for the book at a used book store.What a pleasant surprise.
For Helen, a future mom with no man and no money to her name, she finds a rather morbid and twisted way to get herself into a wealthy family. What ensues is dramatic and emotional, and I Married a Dead Man is as eye-opening as it is dark. It's a story of a woman who isn't really a bad person, but she's desperate and her ordeals are very intense.
I had never read anything by Cornell Woolrich before, and apparently it incited in me a drive to read everything by him I could get my hands on.
I believe, in this, I was attracted to Woolrich's detached, fable-like writing and the way this mixes with melodrama of almost cheesy sentimentality.
And, now I know that for a writer considered significant to the development of noir, Woolrich writes often from a female perspective.
Like I said, he is extraordinary.(July 2010):Gothic soap-opera noir.
I loved it.
Cornell Woolrich (aka William Irish) divine?
I loved the way the train crash scene was written.
Easily my favorite book in the collection. Melodradramatic as hell, but I could hardly put it down. Woolrich builds suspense, menace and character empathy like the best noir author, but there is something so simple and almost sweet about this tragic little tale that elevates it for me. The ending was classic and ambiguous and Excellent. Read in Crime Novels: American Noir of the 1930s & 40s collection from the library.
First, the late Hugh Hazzard's brother Bill falls in love with "Patrice"; and the lowlife who had seduced and abandoned Helen figures out what happened and comes a-blackmailing.
This is an interesting twist, as pure guilt and the sense of mutual recrimination is so horrible of and by itself.Woolrich writes his novel with a deft hand and a brilliant style, such as when "Patrice" is driving with the intent to confront her blackmailer:Outside, the street-lights went spinning by like glowing bowls coming toward her down a bowling-alley.
One of the few books I've ever read twice (actually three times).
Steeped in paranoia it is one of the best noir novels ever written, full of Woolrich's creepy imagery.
The only thing I have never bought is the ending and the only thing that keeps the novel from being perfect.
Woolrich in an effort to put yet another layer of paranoia on the existential cake leaves us with a footnote that just doesn't ring true given the characters he has drawn for us.
Finish the book and pretend it ended, like Clockwork Orange, at the penultimate chapter.
The tone is very 1940's. It brings to mind John O'Hara or Graham Greene, but not quite at their level. I really like the way Woolrich can pump up the drama, but this is probably not his best work.
Don't you hate it when the Goodreads synopsis gives away the entire plot?
This is supposed to be a suspense novel, after all.Well, no matter.
Despite the B-movie title, it felt to me most reminiscent of Nella Larsen or Jean Rhys in its rhythms.
Indeed, the female protagonist was so relatable to me, I had to double (and triple) check that the author was in fact male!
Men tend to shy away from portraying female experiences of vulnerability.
This character, despite the extraordinary circumstances, felt real.
Admittedly, the plot points didn't add up quite the way I'd hoped they would.
I MARRIED A DEAD MAN.
A young woman, five-months’ pregnant, is on a train from New York to San Francisco.
As it turns out, the other lady passenger and her husband are killed, while our young mother-to-be is not.
The chance meeting with the man went sour when she was still in New York.
This case of mistaken identity leads to all kinds of problems for her, especially when the other son in California falls in love with her and wants to marry her.
This is a well-paced and thought out novel that will keep you turning pages.
Fear, paranoia, dread, anxiety, and desperation are dripping thickly off these pages.
A great work of psychological suspense.
A tale of mistaken identity after a train derailment leads Helen to assume the life of Patrice.
But she did not murder Patrice, she just failed to correct the hospital staff of her true identity and I really couldn't blame her.
As the story unfolded Helen/Patrice watched every step to see if the truth will be revealed by others.
Cornell Woolrich did a marvelous job in describing the psychological hell she was suffering.
I enjoyed this book very much as a mystery novel.
I was fascinated with the story when I saw the movie "No Man of Her Own" with Barbara Standwyck years ago (not to be confused with a movie of the same name with Clark Gable.
The book reads as a Perry Mason episode, and does not bog itself down with too much verbage.
The story is of an abondoned pregnant girl who is given a ticket on a train, and five dollars.
She is befriended by another couple who are also expecting and a train wreck and mistaken identity occurs.
The basis for my second favorite Stanwyck noir, NO MAN OF HER OWN (1950). Woolrich does not disappoint, but beyond that I will just say lovers of noir will enjoy this book hugely, all implausibilities aside.
I picked this up after watching Mrs. Winterbourne, and noticing that it was based on a novel. I enjoyed the period. Really great story for such a short book.

Cornell Woolrich wrote so many novellas, short stories and novels which were turned into great classic noir cinema. I Married a Dead Man is one such novel, I came to it from the Barbara Stanwyck film No Man of her Own, and I find the novel is just as good as the film, they didn't change a thing in the film apart from the final scene. Gripping, unusual, sense of dread, just marvelous.
È la storia di come può essere complicato e pericoloso trasformarsi in qualcun altro.Helen è una donna qualunque con tanti problemi, che di giorno in giorno arrivano a schiacciarla.
Ma è su quel treno che incontra il suo destino, sotto le sembianze di una coppia di sposini.
Decide di non denunciare lo scambio di persona e assume l'identità della defunta nella casa dei suoceri, che non hanno mai visto né incontrato la nuora.
Si rende presto conto che non è il suo di passato a doverla preoccupare, ma quello della donna di cui ha rubato l'identità.
A woman is abandoned by her pimp, who has also left her pregnant.
On the train back to California, she mixes with a young married couple on their way home to introduce the woman to the family.
A train crash occurs.
A switched identity and now the woman is living in desperate hope that she'll be able to get away with assuming a new identity so as to keep her child comfortable and well.
Only...the pimp comes back!
Found out that this was where they got the story for that dumb movie "Mrs. Winterbourne." Only they left the murder and mayhem out of it.
As much American gothic as it is noir. Woolrich has an incredible prose that elevates this novel above standard fare. Real characters that one can sympathize with.
Woolrich likes to describe things in a nostalgic, poetic way, almost like Bradbury’s stories that celebrate the American small-town.
Patrice wants to have that all-American small town life, but maybe it's just not in the cards.Here's a good example of Woolrich's prose, describing Patrice in a phone booth, "She was like a doll propped upright in its gift-box, and with one side of the box left off, to allow the contents to be seen.
Or so some say." (Ch. 4)I think Woolrich had a talent for good writing that tugs at the heartstrings, but I think I prefer my noir, and my hard-boiled stories a bit tougher and faster-paced.
I am a longtime fan of the movies that have been made of some of Woolrich's books - mystery classics like Hitchcock's "Rear Window", and Truffaut's "The Bride Wore Black" and "Mississippi Mermaid".
And like a number of my favorite suspense authors (Patricia Highsmith comes to mind), he wrote about troubled, passionate individuals who stumble into criminal activity.
This story focuses on Helen Georgesson, a girl from a nondescript background (literally so, her upbringing and family and maiden name are not even mentioned), who ends up accidentally getting her identity mixed up with the another woman's after a train wreck.
If I see a weakness in Woolrich's writing, it is in the wooden characters, all of whom speak the same way.
It seemed tacked on.Was there ever anybody better than Cornell Woolrich at creating a living breathing human being in so few words?
The rest of the novel is about Helen's future life, a life as unexpected as the initial disaster that created it.
Woolrich creates the suspense so successfully that the novel becomes a page turner for the rest of it's duration.
We see the tenuousness of our own lives and happiness in Helen and Bill.The characters were first rate, we love them or hate 'em.
The suspense is outstanding, as in all of Woolrich's novels and stories.
Woolrich appears to have written this noir thriller based on the KISS philosophy: Keep it Simple Stupid.
I Married a Dead Man manages to keep a consistently high level of tension throughout by placing its protagonist in an extraordinary yet still fairly plausible predicament, and then simply letting things play out to their logical conclusion.
This was my first Woolrich novel, but based upon this book I understand why people hold him in such high regard.
I Married a Dead Man definitely stands at the same level as the works of authors such as Jim Thompson, James M.
God awful. Dull. Drags on and on. Some of the writing borders on incomprehensible. The plot is extremely predictable. A large chunk of the book has no villain. And the ending makes no sense. The only reason I give this two stars is there were occasional moments of fun and darkness. But overall, this dated novel is just boring. Our heroine is of the type that is always stifling her screams with her knuckles. Our hero is a sturdy piece of cardboard. The villain twirls his moustache. Don't read this book. Don't do it. No no no no no.
A Classic from the noir genre set during the Great Depression. A woman befriends a wealthy newlywed couple on a train. During the ride, she somehow “trades places” with the young bride. The train is in an accident, the real married couple dies, and the woman assumes the identity of the rich bride. This is a fast-paced story that kept me reading on. It had excellent plotting and suspense. A scenario like this would probably not happen in the United States today. Who cares? We are talking noir fiction and the effect greed has on a person.
A short take:What a set-up! Once I realized where Woolrich was taking the story, I felt a chill. What parent wouldn't make a similar decision and try everything he or she could to maintain the myth that protects the family? I'm being vague here, because I don't want to give away a single detail to anyone who has yet to read this book.My sole complaint: downer ending borders on the melodramatic and vies with the real human pain that Woolrich weaves into the rest of the story.
Woolrich with his noir writing style and atmosphere, really bring you into the gloom of his characters. With despair hanging over them, looking over their shoulder into the shawdows. Living in a fog of fear at times, but more like everywhere they turn, there's a street light burned out. Wonderful suspense.
Great novel. A novel that no one can go wrong by reading, as can be said about everything else that Woolrich wrote.
Almost a noir domestic drama and rather paranoid in tone; good but far from the author's best.
