https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/113456.Counterinsurgency_Warfare
Short, lucid, clear how-to manual on defeating insurgencies.
Written in 1963, but remains sound from everything I have read on the subject.
Describes the clear-hold-build strategy eventually applied successfully in Iraq (though not by that exact name).
Belongs in every counterinsurgent's backpack.An insurgency can only succeed by building on the population's real grievances.
A counterinsurgency can only succeed by winning the support of the people.
Thus, the objective of the conflict is the people.
Military action is secondary to political action.
The war is won or lost at the company level, where the leader is in direct and continuous contact with the population.
Reading it, so much of what Galula talks about seems so obvious now, but that only stands as evidence of how seminal a book it is in the field.
There is also much in it to make me think how massive a political failure the Iraq war - and to a good extent, the war in Afghanistan as well - represents.
The military, by all evidence, seems to have been more flexible and creative than our civilian agencies, with better leadership.
I think this was not a failure so much in the abilities or qualifications of any civilians sent, but in the ill-informed, vague, and/or changing policies.
In addition, I have read many other books on this subject over the last couple of decades.
Lieutenant Colonel Galula's reputation, which I had believed before reading this book to have become somewhat over-inflated of late, was apparently well earned.
This book is on the recommended reading list at CGSC for good reason, but it seems to me that NCOs & company-grade officers would perhaps find it even more interesting and useful than field-grade officers.
I would personally recommend this book highly to all of the above and also anyone else interested in military art & science and/or modern military history.
For a book written in 1963, it really holds up. A bit oversimplified, but still a foundational work on counterinsurgency theory for good reason.
The CPC today, then employing the organizational techniques described herein during its nascent days until 1949, has embedded itself far too deep in the populace via its hydra-like bureaucracy & party structure for it to be removed by force or suasion.David Galula, himself a ranking officer in the armed forces, staunchly advocated political direction & control over counterinsurgency efforts & dismissed outright any suggestions that it be military-led.
I'm actually surprised. It's a lucid, engaging and clear book that in spite of being short, explains in a precise and detailed way the whole process of conformation and establishment of an armed insurgency and everything related to its natural reaction; the counterinsurgency. It's a book rich in historical examples that allows to understand several of the armed revolutions and the overthrow of governments, as well as their failures. This book is still in force despite having been written in the 60s, since the principles observed by the author have not changed much over the years. It's worth reading.
This book is highly overrated. Read Taber's War of the Flea instead. Sure, it's from the insurgent point of view, but you'll learn far more there than you will here, because while the subtitle may be "Theory and Practice," the truth of the matter is that there's no real "practice" in this book.
Galula would've Jomini; but his work suffers from much of the same prescriptive weaknesses.
One of the authentic and detailed exposition on the nature and cause of insurgency.
Competent, overarching foundational strategy of COIN.
This is not only military leadership from the generals to the privates, but also civilians put in charge of providing economic and social building blocks for the population under duress.
Emphasis has been placed on providing services for the population.If there is one thing to learn from the author it is that military might alone cannot defeat an insurgency and that ultimately it is the support of the population that will win the conflict.
One topic I found interesting in this book was the clear definition and separation of conventional versus revolutionary conflicts and the statement that all revolutionary conflicts, and therefore insurgencies are political in nature.
Each author strived to abstract his experience in order to transform the conventional military and the political establishment and to meet the demands of counterinsurgency warfare and to achieve victory.
Trinquier tends to focus on the tactical and operational level, and although he acknowledges the importance of politics in counterinsurgency, he tends to address military issues.
Galula examines larger strategic issues, and describes both military and political actions that are necessary for a successful counterinsurgency campaign.
Yet whatever their differences, both have effective advice for the counterinsurgent, and both of the books should be used in conjunction when planning and preparing for counterinsurgency operations.
Un excellent livre, clair et pratique, qui explique ce qu'est une guerre d’insurrection, ainsi que tout conflit asymétrique mettant aux prises une armée moderne avec une groupe d'individus n'ayant au départ qu'une cause et une grande détermination.
L'auteur, David Galula, est un tunisien résistant qui a fait par la suite une carrière dans l'armée française.
Galula, très expérimenté sur les conflits de la guerre froide, a roulé sa bosse sur tous les continents, et parvient à illustrer ses thèses par une foule d'exemples édifiants et instructifs.
Written in the style of an army-guide, its insights are so basic to our modern understanding of counterinsurgency that it is difficult to see what the fuss is about.
That this was one of the original such guides, written by a man who had observed and experienced counter-insurgency from North Africa, to Southeast Asia, and China, is why it has become an interesting primary source in its own right.
And weighing in at a mere 143 pages of clearly written narrative prose, it is by far a superior read (albeit less thorough) to the Marine Corps Small Wars Manual or the Army's infamous Counterinsurgency Guide.
In Counterinsurgency Warfare: Theory and Practice, David Galula etches in stone, the necessities of warfare that were, at the time, predicted to be of dire need for the Occident’s success against the dissemination of communism.
He wrote the book under the assumption that the West, particularly the United States, will automatically grow heavily involved in future insurgency-based warfare.
Aside from redefining a priori limitations to military engagements, Galula ingeniously prescribes new developmental principles, laws and theories for states to effectively combat an insurgency.
The book is highly recommended to anyone who considers a career in the military or students in pursuit of a degree which pertains to international studies.
I first read Colonel Galula's book many years ago, in preparation for my assignment in Vietnam.
Galula's theories, developed as an observer of the Chinese Revolution of 1927-49, and as a participant in France's counterinsurgency in Algeria, 1954-62, formed the basis for US counterinsurgency efforts in Vietnam.
Recently the same theories have been revived by the US Department of Defense, tempered by our experiences in Afghanistan and post-war Iraq, and incorporated into Field Manual 3-24, "Counterinsurgency." Galula states that in "revolutionary war" or insurgency, the primary objective is to win over the population; failing that, it must be kept submissive.
I found Colonel Galula's book even more relevant now, than after my first read.
A quick and easy read (don't be fooled by how long it took me; I went through part of it for a paper and then decided recently to read through it's entirety) for anyone interested in insurgency warfare.
Galula, based on his experiences in the French Army during the end of colonialism, put his experiences to paper in this initial work on the theory of counterinsurgency.
While some parts of the book are obviously dated, the core of the theory is still applicable today, and can be witnessed in Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as several nations in Africa.
I read this in earl 2007 when I was trying to learn more about counterinsurgency war and the "surge" that the US forces were promoting in Iraq. This is a short theoretical essay on counterinsurgency war by an expert with ties to the French military. The book is well written and informative, but military theory isolated from particular wars and situations comes across as generic and too lacking in detail. The other book I was reading at the time - Horne's history of the Algerian war -- was far superior, although this book is fairly well known in military circles.
The book is problematic for several reasons. First, its not an accurate representation of what the French or the other Western powers actually did in their colonial wars. Second, it is also based on some dated ideas about development, the nature of Communism, a poor understanding of Maoist strategy, and the relationship between politics and war. But Galula also got a lot of other stuff right, and he deserves credit for his insights.
The definitive counterinsurgency manual. A must read for anyone who wants to understand what the US is attempting to do (now) in Iraq and how the majority of the wars of the future will be fought. It is quite amazing how well this book has aged, it's concepts are still whole and can easily be merged with other works of political science and sociology to form a powerful 'lens' to understand happenings around the world.
This book is, perhaps, the most definitive manual for an initiate in the subject of counterinsurgency. Galula knows what he is talking about, having served in China (1945-48), Greece (1949-50) and Algeria (1956-58), and he has an unusual bent for exhaustive analysis. He does not only theorize but offers practical solutions to most problems facing a counterinsurgent - that is, perhaps, the greatest merit of this book.
Amazingly relevant today as when it was first published. A foundation read for any military officer or civilian involved in COIN operations, policy or strategy. Galula explains how best to tackle insurgencies and their vulnerabilities. He lays out laws and characteristics of insurgency and COIN warfare and then how to develop successful COIN strategies.
Galula lays out the basic steps of an insurgency or revolutionary war and the steps neccessary to combat or suppress one.Why I started this book: It was short and I was going to whip thru it.Why I finished it: It took a lot more effort than I was expecting but my biggest frustration is that this book was written in 1964 and our military is still learning the lessons in here the hard way.
Galula expertly draws conclusions from his own counterinsurgency experience to craft this "how-to" manual. Although this was written about 60 years ago, there are many parallels with the current situation in Iraq. It's amazing how the more things change, the more they stay the same. This is a great book for anyone interested in the topic.
Truly a classic and a requirement for anyone who wants to understand irregular war and how to counter it. However, the reader should be advised that Galula is discussing a fairly narrow portion of the topic. Specifically, his experience was in countering centralized, Mao-ist, internal insurgency. The United States faces very different enemies today.
Galula provides his views on communist 'revolutionary warfare' and the manner in which Western militaries must adapt to face the on coming threat. Written soon after the failures of the French in Vietnam and Algeria, it is heavily influenced by population-centric approaches which see winning the locals as the ultimate (and necessary) prize.
From the "father" of COIN doctrine. Galula served as a French military officer in WWII asd afterwords in various outposts of unrest through the cold war, culminating in Algeria during the French army's rebellion. He outlines in clear language the steps to be taken as well as why, in clear, economical prose.
A very interesting and only too relevant book on counterinsurgency and guerrilla warfare. Many of the aspects and strategies listed here have become so commonplace as to appear obvious, but this book was likely revolutionary in its own time. Very interesting use of historical examples.
good lessons: timeless. It is interesting to see what someone has to say from so long ago that rings true today.
Intriguing.
