https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1993532.My_Fight_for_Irish_Freedom
Along with Tom Barry's GUERILLA DAYS, one of the best accounts of the Irish Revolution by a major participant. The post-script written by Breen decades later is heart-breaking, as he stands at the grave of Sean Treacy (who died in a hail of gunfire on a Dublin street during the conflict) and remembers himself and his friend who were still such young men but, "we thought we had lived full lives."
This ability to stick to the story becomes even more evident near the end of the book when discussing the subsequent civil war which took place, a war that pitted fellow Irishmen against each other, a topic which Breen deals with quite masterfully and with no shortage of respect.
Overall, the man loved his country and felt it was time the oppressive invading government from across the Irish Sea relinquished its hand of power.
One beautiful rambling in the book eludes to Breen's love of place, and I only wish there was more:"I went for a month's convalescence close to the hill of Tara.
On the same day as the First Dail sat in Dublin, abstaining from the British parliament, Dan Breen and the boys from Tipperary fires the first shots in the fight for independence.
The book reads like a movie with the hero always managing to shoot his way out of a tight spot and getting shot so many times you wonder how he survives.Breen is straight forward and frank in his account.
This book is part of a number of great first hand account of the Irish War of Independence and should be read along with Tom Barry’s and Ernie O’Malleys accounts.
Dan Breen was one of the band who fired the "shot heard round the world" at Soloheadbeg: the opening salvo of Ireland's War of Independence.
https://collinsassassination.wordpres...His book is action-packed & extraordinarily well-written.
Breen was front & centre in some of the fiercest action of the war.
He was also quite articulate, and most astute politically.
He had a keen insight into the political issues; and was freely critical of some in the independence movement itself, as well.
He survived the war & went on to serve in Ireland's national legislature.
Its a memoir, so its hard to hold it to literary standards. But I found his writing style to be atrocious.I'm not going to comment on the content other than mention that its an important book for any historian of the war of Independence. The amount of memoirs which emerged after that war (And which, curiously stopped just at the start of the Civil War) means we have a very rich supply of primary sources to study it. Very interesting.
"We refused to leave Ireland. We told them that we were not afraid to die, but would prefer to live for Ireland... Irelands fight would have to be made by Irishmen on the hills and on the highways in Ireland not with printers ink in America or in another country... arms were not lacking; but of what use, we asked ourselves, are men who are toysoldiers? Of what use are guns that have been oiled and cleaned but never fired?"
"We refused to leave Ireland. We told them that we were not afraid to die, but would prefer to live for Ireland... Ireland´s fight would have to be made by Irishmen on the hills and on the highways in Ireland not with printer´s ink in America or in another country... arms were not lacking; but of what use, we asked ourselves, are men who are toysoldiers? Of what use are guns that have been oiled and cleaned but never fired?"
Easy read painting picture of life on the run for IRA man in early 20 th century
