https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/325416.The_Voyages_of_Doctor_Dolittle
Unexpectedly Polynesia turns up in Puddleby from Africa who informs the Doctor that Bumpo is studying in Bullford then Tommy gets the Doctor, with the help of Poynesia, to teach him the animal languages.
After Polynesia teaches Tommy the language of animals, so he can understand Jip and Dub-Dub, Chee-Chee comes from Africa disguised as a lady and tells about his voyage to Puddleby.
نام کامل دکتر قصه «جان دولیتل طبیب» بود.
مردی بسیار باهوش که بیماران بسیاری را درمان کرده است.
دکتر دولیتل، در شهری بسیار کوچک، به نام: «پادلبی»، زندگی می‌کرد.
آن دکتر است که می‌رود.
I remember loving the story and, especially, being enamored of Dr. Dolittle's ability to talk with the animals.
It does not, however, remove the rather offensive portrayal of Native Americans as childlike people who don't even have fire and are happily civilized by Dolittle to the point of complete dependency.
I was very distressed, however, with the many scenes of Dr. Dolittle happily cooking and eating sausages and bacon while surrounded by his talking animal friends (including a pig!).
Other than the distressing consumption of animal flesh, I did enjoy re-visiting Dr. Dolittle and his friends in the first two or three sections of the book.
Sometime in my mid-20s, upon re-reading this book, I realized that John Dolittle was my main role model in life, and that hasn't changed. Compassionate, obsessive compulsive, an animal lover, a brilliant scientist, a talented linguist, an itinerant traveler, owner of a fireplace that you can sit inside to toast things on sticks, a crusading truth seeker and champion of the underdog (no pun no pun)--shouldn't we all aspire to these things? I've read all the books in the series and I own multiple copies of several. *sigh*
The now-controversial "Voyages of Doctor Doolittle" would perhaps not fare well with many modern children, even with updated artwork and the removal of non-PC passages, as it's a bit old-fashioned and over-long.
However, sensitive readers will want to take note.In terms of the story itself, I really believe Lofting wanted harmony amongst all races--moreover, amongst all living things.
In my eyes, Doolittle is, above all, a gentle hero and role-model.In addressing the claims of racism in the story, I would ask readers to remember the era in which it was written and to consider how progressive Lofting's views were given the time.
However, as I read this one to the kids I edited language out myself and used the cultural references, especially to bull fighting in Spain and "Indians" as a spring board for discussion with my children about how times have changed and how we no longer think the same way or write the same way.
Interestingly, it also brought up a discussion (with a 6 and 9 year old) about English Imperialism as well.
Oh and my 6 year old learned the meaning of OBSTREPEROUS and concluded that he was also obstreperous, based on the definition from the Kindle as I was reading.
I love this book, The Doctor and young Tommy, and the Animals whimsical way make this children's book such a joy to read, the do descriptions of all the places and characters makes you feel as though you are their. Who doesn't love Doctor Dolittle! If you loved the beginning boo you will love this! For their is always laughter and life sessions, and who doesn't love taking animals
Actually, if you decide to read it this way, you can make a case that it makes the Doctor more interesting--Lofting (or at least Tommy Stubbins) clearly intends him to be perfect, and these flaws deepen his character somewhat.
Of course, it's impossible to escape the fact that Lofting has written the Spider Monkey islanders, Long Arrow somewhat excepted, as exactly the sort of childlike society that the Doctor takes them for.Despite all this there are still a lot of fun incidents and episodes--the trial, the fish's story, the shipwreck, and of course the mysteriously beautiful image of the Great Glass Sea Snail--that kept me interested and my niece entertained.
(Read this for my Newbery class.)As a sequel, I really appreciated that Lofting took the time to introduce us to his new character, Stubbins, before bringing us back to the Doctor.
If I had the time, I would go back and read all the adventures of John Dolittle.
A coworker of mine absolutely LOVES everything Dolittle, and is adamant that the editions should not be made PC because they are indicative of the time in which Lofting wrote them.
I can only assume newer versions have edited things like this out (considering I read a modern version of the first book that didn't seem to be nearly as offensive), but unfortunately there are other elements of the story that I don't imagine can be edited out so easily -- it's more of a "general attitude" -- for example, this particular group of South American natives was apparently so ignorant that they had not discovered fire until Doctor Dolittle and his crew enlightened them.
No. Instead, I think my childhood friends are those that had missed out on this terrific experience.
He met the doctor, travelled with him, learned amazing things about animals and their languages and nature—a far cry from what children of his age learn at that time.
The doctor, on the other hand, has been always my favorite character—he is smart, affectionate, brave, yet silly and funny at times.
Furthermore, I am giving this 4 out of 5 stars.-----4/14/14Can't help but reread the book before I pass it on to a friend.
I would recommend this book for 8-year-olds, or around that age range.
I was also a little dismayed to read the introduction and find out that there had been changes made to this book because of "racial prejudices." It only made me want to go out and find the original book.
All in all though, I found this a fairly enjoyable book, aside from a couple ridiculous ideas or settings I liked it and would probably recommend it.*Taken from my book reviews blog: http://reviewsatmse.blogspot.com/2009...
* Not appropriate for the modern classroom due to rampant stereotyping and overall colonialistic attitudes.If this book isn't for children, who is it for?
Obviously, that stuff is a big deal and I can't picture myself recommending this book to kids.
Lofting's Dolittle character was a bit ahead of his time in the animal rights department, opposing bullfighting and the keeping of lions in small cages.Additionally, while pretty much all the minorities are steeped in stereotype, you are meant to like them.
Intent matters to me even if it doesn't change the fact that you can't recommend this book to children.
90 years ago, if you were some little farm boy on the Kansas prairie, winter wind blowing outside, then the adventures of a vet who could talk to animals, his voyages fraught with danger and shipwreck, and one of his trusting companions a nine year old boy - it must have been marvelous.
There is a marvelously far thinking passage where the doctor talks about discovering the North Pole long before anyone else - but the polar bears convince him to keep it a secret because people will come and ruin it all.
The polar bears were right all along, weren't they?
Some of this was great, especially in the first half (too many books I've been reading lately have great first halves and peter out from there). I can't help feeling like it would have been a better book if he'd stuck to England--and then there'd be a lot less of that messy racism problem--but then it wouldn't be The Voyages, would it?...
In many ways ahead of its time (1922) in terms of animal rights (the Doctor is firmly against lions and tigers in zoos, bullfighting, and scooping up fish to live in an aquarium) the book does have uncomfortable moments when Lofting is writing about human beings rather than animals.
Most versions of "The Story of Doctor Dolittle" (which I haven't read yet) and the "Voyages" have been edited and re-written.
For all it's flaws, this is what Lofting wrote.
Read it with your kids and discuss how much things have changed since the 1920s.
Another childhood favorite.
When I was little, I really wanted to be Tommy Stubbins and go with the good doctor.
I played Dr Dolittle games and fantasized.
It got me interested in looking at nature and being amazed at the beauty of everything around me.
I loved this book and all of the Dolittle classics.
My paperback copies from childhood all fell apart, and I bought, and re-read, the whole series in hard cover as an adult.
I've read this book at least 10 times, and the last time was in 2006 on a couple of lazy summer days beneath a forest canopy.
This book is delightful! It's the first Doctor Dolittle book I've read (although it's the second one, that didn't cause me any confusion) and I look forward to reading the rest! It's such a fun, creative adventure. And I adore the doctor himself. He's such an adorable Hufflepuff. And the other characters are fantastic as well; especially the brilliant Polynesia. I really just adored everything about this story.
I just can't with the unselfconscious racism imperialism. Stopped before reality could intrude too far into the realm of "happy childhood memories of musical movie."
I was a little hesitant to read this with my 9-year-old because I thought she might find the language a little archaic and the plot sluggish, given her love of Harry Potter and the Fudge books.
I do think this book has those redeeming qualities.
We enjoyed it and given that it's a classic, I'm glad we read it, but we probably won't bother with the other books in the Dr. Dolittle series.
There are just too many other good books to read.
You can tell that it was published in 1922, the language is a little archaic, but a good children's book will appeal to children for many, many years.
It was good to see the committee picking a book that children would actually want to read.
I think the fact that there were no Newbery Honor books in 1923 (there were five in 1922) shows that either, there wasn't much else to choose from that year or that Dr. Dolittle was a unanimous pick.
Dr. Dolittle is a very good Newbery pick.
A few yeas ago my sister gifted me the book, which is when I realized, I had never actually read this classic story.
When we made our weekly library trip, we were very excited to find Disney’s Doctor Dolittle just waiting for us in the DVD section.My kids have been just as captivated with the movie as I was.
They have even pointed out some of the things that are different between book and movie – yay, they were actually listening to me read!
We’re only halfway through the movie since it is a long one, but we’ll be finishing it up tonight.
While you can sanitize out the racist language quite easily, you cannot remove the subtle and insidious "white savior" issues inherent to this classic.And, since you cannot remove these things, I feel that it is okay to read the NON-sanitized versions.
I feel that this book would make an incredible read for discussion in a sociology class, or for a sociology minded book group, who would like to discuss in depth these kinds of issues.
Read them together, along with possibly some nonfiction about the time period and a biography of the author, and I think it will give you a very rich contextual idea of the attitudes of the time and also how societies are shaped.
Tommy Stubbins is a ten year old whose father is a shoe maker.
When Tommy meets the doctor, he finds out he can converse with animals.
Tommy convinces Dr. Dolittle to hire him on as an apprentice and soon Stubbins can converse with a few of the animals as well.
In the process they save Long Arrow and his people, the doctor is appointed king and they spend years on a floating island.
I have seen the old movie Dr. Dolittle and I thought this book wasn't going to be as good.
I was surprised that I very much enjoyed this story.
In "The Voyages" (for short), Hugh Lofting wrote so that it was Dr. Dolittle's first appearance in a book.
While the main character was a "young lad Tommy Stubbins," the main focus seemed to be pointed towards Dr. Dolittle, and how he can TALK TO ANIMALS.
Like I did when I was reading the book, I find myself thinking about if I could talk to animals or if I could join Tommy and Dr. Dolittle.
Hugh Lofting did an excellent job at catching the readers attention early, and for that I will suggest this book to anyone at all, not just to readers who like animals.
once I hit the end I realized I was reading an edited version.
I was under the impression that I'm against censoring books, but once I read the original, it turns out I prefer the updated edition.
However, I certainly had a more negative look at Dr. Dolittle for calling Bumpo’s people derogatory words in the first few chapters, and I didn't like how haughtily Polynesia treated him.
It makes a vastly different character impression by removing a few words here and there, amazingly.
I maintain my review with the caveat that people stick with the updated version, though that does seem a little strange to me.
Hands down this book and really the Doctor Dolittle series did more to captivate, excite, and engage my imagination than any other book I remember reading as a little girl.
I still imagine riding across the bottom of the ocean in the clear shell of a sea snail - observing the sea in all its beauty...
In retrospect, I appreciate the compassion the book encouraged young children to have for animals and their environment - it almost made me a vegetarian (almost).
Far and away one of my favorite series when I was young, the Doctor Dolittle books don't bear up so well with time.
But worst, while the central idea of the series, of a man who can talk to animals, remains intriguing, in this particular instance, at least, the execution seems to be a bit dull, too slow in getting to the real action.
There's also a bit of misdirection in the title - the promised "Voyages" turn out to be just a single voyage.
The kids loved this one, but I thought it was just okay. It has a very Pippi Longstocking vibe to it, but not as good. I liked the first half much better than the latter, when he went on his voyage. I did really like that the chapters were so short, meaning I was willing to a read a chapter or two every night, as opposed to some others we've read recently (looking at you, Greenglass House), which required a good 30- to 40-minute commitment, which wasn't going to happen most school nights.
The story was interesting and Dr. Dolittle is quite the fascinating character! His adventures are pretty spectacular and unbelievable, but that's part of the fun of this book. A quick read. I wish I would have read this one as a child!!
My kids enjoyed this as a read aloud, for the most part.
Third, I got tired of all the talk about how awesome the Doctor was all the time.
The point of the action was often to exhibit the doctor's virtue, which wasn't true in the first book.
Grumpiness is a part of her character, sure; but it was the ONLY aspect of her personality in this book, and there was no reason to like her at all.
I really enjoyed the first book with my kids; sad that this one wasn't as good.
