https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/72707.Lad
I loved this book as a child and I love it now! It made me adore collies. I've owned cocker spaniels, English springer spaniels, brittney spaniels, red-bone coonhounds, and a variety of mutts, but no collies. My next dog will be a collie! It's fun to see how I react to this book almost the same way now as I did when I was ten. If you haven't read it, then you're missing out!
I was 9, and not at fault, but since my father loved this book, I got chewed out thoroughly for the pages that were falling out like leaves from an autumn tree, regardless of how lovingly and reverently I treated this copy.
Sadness aside, I have mixed memories of this book, some sad (as Lad drags himself across the snow unerringly), some happy (he was a wonderful family dog), and some adorable (him mouthing the lady's foot).
So when I read this story, I knew that I would enjoy it just as he had.
But even with that, I recall this book in the light of the love of a good dog.
This classic 1919 tale stars a noble superdog inspired by the author's own very real dog-- I mean, the fictional dog's exploits are definitely idealized such that calling Lad a superdog seems quite fitting.The book was not written for juvenile readers -- adults responded quite enthusiastically to this sentimental story in the early years -- but the library where I found it had it designated for juveniles, and I think that association is rather common nowadays and not surprising.
Younger dog-loving readers are quite likely to respond passionately today to the type of dog hero portrayed by Terhune.
I read this book as a child...and like others, I fell in love with Lad and his adventures.
Anyone can be a dog's owner but, only a dog can choose its master.I recently reread this book and it brought back a flood of memories from my own childhood and the adventures I had with my best friend Pete.
He was a white and red mix (Collie & German Shepard)and we owned the world together throughout his entire lifetime.This is a must read for all ages.
I dare you not to fall in love with Lad. I dare you not to weep through his trials.
When I was a kid, the library had two hardcover editions of this book. I would read one copy, take it back, exchange it for the next. I read this book so many times I could recite it. I read his others as well, but this one, and this dog, remain a favorite. As an adult, I bought the book myself and it has a hallowed spot on my keeper shelf.
My grandparents had a beautiful collie named Honey, and when I discovered this book I was sure I was reading about his relatives. One of the best dog books ever, full of love, affection, and mutual respect between dog and man.
I first read this book as a child, and often re-read it growing up. I recently found an old copy at DI, and brought it home to read to my wife.Even after all these years, the story of Lad, his bravery and self-sacrifice brought tears to my eyes.
I read this book as a child, in 4th grade. I loved the heroic Collies of Sunnybank.
Real Rating: 3.5This book was good, but I did not love it. The first two chapters were not very good and I was doubtful that I would end up liking it but it surprised me.Some of the chapters were really cute, and some were sad. But Lad was a really cute and nice dog, and I really liked that. Especially when he saved that cat from death... ;)
Here I am at 49 experiencing this story for the first time and only to fill part of a reading challenge. I'm so glad I got the chance. Beautifully written and full of adventure, some exciting, some fearful. And I'm not ashamed to say I cried. 5 stars.
Truly amazing.
Albert Payson takes you everywhere in the book is, every paw step of the way.
Step out of this world and into the eventful life of a collie at The Place.
Mr. Terhune uses his uncanny ability to paint the world of Lad, the main character, into your mind.
Lad is a brave, heroic, thoroughbred collie, both in body and soul.
He repeatedly saves many lives including those of the Mistress, a baby, and even several sheep!
One of the few dogs who possess an unusual human yet dog-like brain, he is able to understand more human commands and words than most.
probably one of my favorite books in the history of the world, simply amazing
Great stories. Lad is always noble and brave, and conquers the bad guys every time. The language reflects an earlier time, but adds charm to the stories.
I read this as my Classic for the month. I've probably read it a gazillion times already, but I still love it!
Great dog story, rivals that even of Jack London! Very humorous, makes for one lovable dog!
Wow! I’d forgotten all about this book. I read this when I was 9 or 10 years old and it was my absolute favorite. Must read it again and see if my 5-star memory of the story stands the test of time.
I really enjoyed this, and probably would have liked it even more if I'd read it as a kid. It's a collection of stories about a heroic collie named Lad. There's humor, and a whole lot of poignancy. It takes the big dog through young adulthood into old age, and I certainly came to love him as if he were real. A very good book.
I think it's safe to say that this book is probably best read as the author intended: by readers in 1919.To be honest, I only picked up the book because of a 65 year old Peanuts comic strip (http://peanuts.wikia.com/wiki/File:19... ) so I'm adding a star for sentimental reasons.
I love dog books.
I didn't even much mind reading James Oliver Curwood's Swift Lightening a year or so ago, although it was a pretty silly book.
To begin with, it's hideously racist, both in describing the behavior of people and that of dogs.
And yes, you can infer undying love and loyalty in some aspects of dog behavior, but please do not endow dogs with the powers of complex moral reasoning, a trait bestowed upon them, according to Terhune, by dint of their being "thoroughbred".
WTF?Then too, the stories are hideously melodramatic and extremely morally judgmental.
The book follows him through his life as he meets with one challenge after another; burglars, vicious dogs, the wiles of scheming neighbors, and all the stuff of life that puzzles a loyal dog who just wants to live in peace.
The last battle in this chronicle of his life is nothing less than breath-taking -- and heartbreaking.Concerns: None.Summary: Yes, I'm a sucker for a dog story.
If you're turned off by old-timey, slightly sentimental and moralistic tales, it might not be your style -- but if you like a dog story, you've got try it just because!
Terhune wrote dozens of books about collies, and Lad is a multi-generational favorite.
Lad saved a baby from a poisonous snake, found his way home from New York City, rescued his home from being attacked by various harmful people, saved a puppy who had fallen through the ice, and committed many other heroic deeds.It was fascinating to read this account of life in the early 1900's, actually written by someone from that time.
We have a watchdog who is amazing in many of the same ways Lad was, but if she bit or attacked someone, even if they clearly meant to do us harm, we would be a world of trouble.
As much as I loved most of the book, I never have gotten past the scene where (view spoiler)[ a visitor's kid nearly burns the family cat alive, Lad intervenes, and the kid's father tries to beat the dog with a chair while the kid yells for his father to kill the dog...and during this, the author's great concern is that he remember his duty as a host and remain gracious to his guests.
Lad's a great dog and it's generally a lovely book.
I adored this book as a kid, and probably read everything Terhune wrote.
I'm not sure what a modern child would make of this book of short stories; perhaps he or she would love it as much as I did, but I wonder.
(Some of the stories are said to be based on fact.) It's a picture of a vanished world of very early 20th century life at a socioeconomically elevated level, with some of the classicism and elitism that entails.
I will always have a soft spot for dog stories.
This proved to be one of those well told and interesting ones, even for this mom.
This chronicles his many adventures while living on Sunnybank farm.
I appreciated the way Lad wasn't this genius dog who understood everything (he would wag his tail not because he understood,but because his people were happy so he was happy), and even he had his "doggy" moments of being naughty.
A fun and lively book of doggy adventures.
I read this book when I was in grade school and downloaded a free copy to see if it ages well.
Unfortunately it does not.
When I was a child in the 1950s, racism and sexism were invisible to me.
Now I am an adult, and these deficits are too glaring to overlook.
The book is full of anthropomorphism to an astonishing degree that makes it entirely unbelievable to a modern reader.
I wouldn't recommend it for children because of attitudes regarding race, gender and class that it might impart to the young reader.
What were common attitudes in 1919 are no longer acceptable today.

Lad: A Dog:  the best book about dogs ever. Albert Payson Terhune: the best author who writes about a dog. (Sorry, Jack London) I wasn't sure that Lad was real dog, but I eventually realized it. To anyone who wants to read this book: Lad was a real dog!! And he's the kind of dog that I'd like to have. :)
Read this years ago after seeing and loving the movie first. I loved all the books by Albert Payson Terhune and fell in love with the collie breed. As a young wife I finagled my hubby into taking me to dog shows so that I could admire the collies. I finally got my own Lad, and what a beauty he was, but I had no desire to get into showing.Great books, highly recommended for dog lovers.
I have had this book on my "to read" list for ages, mostly because, based on the description, I thought my kids would enjoy it. But I absolutely loved it. Terhune made the dog such a real character in the book -- and not an anthropomorphized man-dog -- that I believed every word of it. And I want a dog.
I loved this as a kid, so I'm glad to see that I enjoyed it just as much as an adult. The writing may be a tad overly sentimental, but it doesn't matter--you can't help but be caught up in the magnificence that is Lad and dream of your own awesome collie. (even when you're a cat person, like me)
