https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5191.The_Pilot_s_Wife
Briefly, for those who may not have read the book or just a quick refresher for those who have- Kathryn’s husband, Jack, is a pilot, and together they have a teenage daughter.
The story does seem dated a little, at this point, and as a more jaded reader, I may have figured things out a lot quicker if I’d been reading it for the first time, but it is still a powerful heart wrenching novel of suspense and riveting family drama.
I have read several other books written by Shreve over the years, but so far, although very well written, they didn’t quite manage to have the same effect on me as this one did.4.5 stars rounded up
Another bomb from Shreve. Her husband had a secret life...blah blah blah. She can't confront her grief and betrayal over finding this out, because he is dead. Then the usual fairy-tale ending for books of this genre...while Kathryn is grief-stricken, unkempt and unshowered and at her blubbery worst, a gorgeous guy is right there to fall madly in love with her! Yes, this happens *all* the time!
Soon drawn into a maelstrom of publicity fueled by rumors that Jack led a secret life, Kathryn sets out to learn who her husband really was, whatever that knowledge might cost.
Kathryn Lyons mourned the idyllic life she has lost after learning about her husband's deceit.
In the end she did not mourn her husband Jack, but the good life he had cheated them out of.
Although the author's books lean heavily on the emotional turbulence it ignites in the reader, the stories are always a moral showground with many questions left for the readers to find answers to.
It is enhanced by the movie.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oLx1F...I've been wanting to read this book for so long.
This is one of those books you pick up in Costco when the line is really long and you need something to kill time, but then it accidentally gets rung up so you go ahead and read it.
In England!!!
How could a book about loss, betrayal, and really big secrets fail to entertain?
Unfortunately, none of the characters was even marginally appealing, and overall the story was just bleak and boring.
There was even a contrived "love" story that, weirdly, made the story even grimmer.
I’m afraid I didn’t feel any love for this.
That wouldn’t have bothered me had the writing been inspired or the characters compelling.
Katheryn, the wife who’s told her husband, the pilot, has died in an air crash, didn’t provide any of those exciting identification moments when you see something of yourself or a good friend eloquently arrested and made lucid.
Katheryn always seemed more of a device than a living character.
I didn’t get any exciting insights into married life or grief.
I’m a bit mystified why this novel is so popular.
This could be a quick read but is sometimes painful & I would have to put it down until I could read and savor a passage or two at a better time.
Kathryn, the pilot's wife, is so well written - you not only feel what she feels, you eventually know what she will feel before it is written for you.
I have not gone through the pain of death and then life collapses but I have had life collapse in on itself and this story rings true.
So my only complaint is the ending of the story - it ends too quickly and too neatly - Kathryn & the reader deserve more.
This was an airport "argh, I need something to read on a 4 hour flight" impulse buy. Since everything at the airport shop seemed to be on Oprah's list, there was no avoiding it. I don't know what is more annoying about this book, the supposed idylic settinig of New England, or the preposterous misunderstanding of the IRA. The whole thing is implausible, unless the protaginist is a major idiot... Oh, maybe that is not that big of an assumption.
Shreve did a good job capturing the main character's grief and confusion, but the book just didn't hold my interest.
I was also annoyed by the main character falling in love with the union rep.
I get that people bond under intense circumstances, but I hate that falling in love seems to be the go to literary reaction.
I found myself kind of embarrassed to be reading a book about a pilot's wife at the airport.
But it was kind of interesting to read something with characters dealing with the crazy aviation schedule.
This is my third Anita Shreve book and I am not sure if I am going to read any more of them.
In an effort to prove to everyone that Jack would never commit suicide as well as murder all those passengers, she learns that her husband had many secrets from her and is not the man she thought he was for all those years together.This book made me feel sad.
This book didn't do much to reinforce any sort of faith in humanity.
Also, the book was too short.
The other Shreve books I read were more satisfying.
I had read so many great things about this book, and I saw it in a used book store, so I bought it. I really didn't enjoy it.
I actually read this book quite a few years ago but have been trying to update my "read" books.
I have read a few books by Anita Shreve and for the most part I enjoy her writing and her stories.She did a good job of showing Kathryn's grief and confusion making the reader feel as though this is something that they could be going through themselves.
However, at times the plot seemed somewhat confusing and undeveloped.
Some confusion and questions that didn't seem as though there were fully answered.
All in all is was a decent book and I will likely check out more of Shreve's books.
This book was vivid and impressively-written, with complex characters and vibrant imagery. It gets really intense and quickly becomes difficult to put down, but it drags on in some chapters.
AudiobookI wish Melanie Griffith would have narrated other books because she does a fantastic job. Her voice is a little gritty and is just wonderful to listen to.The story itself I really enjoyed but mentions of the (view spoiler)[IRA - Irish Republican Army (hide spoiler)] really date it. I was thinking, oh yeah, I remember there were problems with them in the 1990s. I just enjoyed the whole book front to back. 5 stars.
Amazing book, there are many twists and turns that keep you interested and on your toes. I love the author's writing style. Again, this I read in two evenings; so you know it was good!
This book held my attention with twists & surprises although the ending was sudden.The author describes the emotional turmoil of grief from the loss of a loved one realistically.
And I like thinking.Right from the second page of the book she sets the essence of the whole book in motion..."She took careful steps across the floor, as if moving too fast might set something in motion that hadn't yet begun."To think that both the author and the main character, Kathryn Lyons, (the pilot's "wife,") are already in tune with the fact that this could be true makes me think of the many times when I, if I had been more in tune with what surrounded me, would or could have had the same feeling.But, knowing does not change that.
I have no idea how I ended up owning this book, but I decided it would be a quick read on the plane.
It was quick...
but every second of the three hours was painful.
The first half was all grieving (fitting for a self help book), the second half attempted to bring in some more mystery and intrigue.
Unfortunately the mystery involved was the "pilot" having an affair,,, which comes as no surprise to anyone who has worked in the airline industry.
There are five books that I consider the worst books I've ever read, this is now number two.
An airliner explodes over the Atlantic, and at home the wife of the pilot is left to pick up her own life, as well as deal with the implications that her husband may have caused the disaster.
This book didn't grab me on many levels, and by the end, I felt a bit hostile towards it.
The big revelations that are unearthed seem a bit preposterous and convenient, and the fact that her husband has personal secrets from his wife...
well, you could have seen that coming.
I didn't feel emotionally involved at all, and thought the pseudo love-interest addition of the union man was ripped from a grocery store romance.
I feel dirty and tricked.Although I probably am being harsh by giving it two stars, I don't really see too many good things about this book.
Shreve relies only on the 'feel' sensory to explain what her character is going through, rather than the 'show'.
The important parts where things could have been really interesting--such as the funeral or the first Christmas without Jack--are glossed over and barely given a paragraph's mention.The characters were predictable most times.
This book could have been summed up into a short story, maybe 10 pages long, and that line being the focus.
Who is the real wife: the one who was protected and was never left behind or the one to whom the deepest secrets were shared?After fifteen years of marriage, Kathryn Lyons woke up to the news that the plane piloted by her husband Jack crashed, killing 103 passengers.
She could not fathom the reason behind Jack’s hiding the truth from her, how he managed to become unfaithful for four and a half years being married to another woman with whom he had two kids.Jack and Kathryn’s family life was extraordinary because they had to deal with frequent absences of the husband due to the nature of his job.
The book follows the grieving process of his widow, as she tries to figure out what happened in that plane.
The overriding question in the book is "How well can we ever really know someone else?"There wasn't anything really wrong with the book, it was just overly gray for my taste.
I wasn't exactly right, but I was close.This really was not my kind of book.
I have a feeling it would appeal to fans of Nicholas Sparks.
In fact, my mom is a huge fan of his and I sent her this book to read today.
You travel with Kathryn on this journey of loss, hoping that behind each turn there is some good news to follow.As Kathryn, her daughter Mattie, and her grandmother Julia sift through the wreckage of their lives and deflect the horrible stories the media perpetrates during this difficult time, Kathryn begins to wonder if she ever knew Jack at all.
I've not seen the film, and I probably won't; the story in the book was so strong I don't need a visible representation of this work.The Pilot's Wife was selected for the Oprah Book Club and became an international best-seller.Anita Shreve is an author I will read again.
I don't understand what all the hype was about with this book.
I think Shreve's writing is pretty good - no complaints there - but the pace of this book is all over the place.
It's very slow to start, to the point where I wanted to just give up on it, and then the last 2-3 chapters rush to wrap eeverything up into a neat package.
The plot was pretty good, a bit "Lifetime movie" for my tastes, but decent enough.
If the pace had been a bit more consistent, I probably would have given this 3 stars.
3.5A well written novel that kept me interested until the last page. I really enjoyed the way it unfolded and the way things were revealed.  This is the second book by this author I have read and so far I have found them to be a pleasant experience, especially when I'm wanting a lighter read.
Odd, she thought, how intensely you knew a person, or thought, how you did, when you were in love - soaked, drenched in love - only to discover later that perhaps you didn't know that person quite as well as you had imagined.
It was the way people worked, Kathryn thought, with a need to evolve from being sick with love to making a life with someone who was also changing, altering himself, so that the couple could one day raise a child.Odd, she thought, how a fact, seen one way, was one thing.
The Time Travelers Wife, Gone Girl, The Silent Wife, and now the Pilot's Wife.
This book had twists and turns but they didn't feel cheap like they may have in Gone Girl.
(Gone Girl felt kind of like a Hollywood best seller to me- good and entertaining and well written for sure with some great disturbing twists to throw you off but not something that would really stick with you) The major theme- in my opinion, was the ability to create your own reality.
Unlike Silent Wife, I finished the book feeling tremendous hope for Kathryn.
That half of the book I felt was written well but when Shreve attempts the different plot twists during the second half of the book, I lost interest.
And I don't expect all the details of this progression of Jack's double life to fall into a neat little package, but I think more details should have been provided maybe through Muire or Robert (partically politically).
Also,little of the book goes into real depth about how Kathryn feels about her husband's betrayal.
And lastly, why does Robert fall in love with Kathryn?
I really liked this book more than I thought I would.
The reviews I had read (on Amazon, I think) all seemed disappointed and felt that Shreve ended the book prematurely.
In this case, I think it was a perfectly fine place to end it.
You know there might end up being a friendship.
You know there probably will be a relationship.
Since you know what will probably happen, it's okay.I actually found myself bored in the beginning of the book and felt it dragged on forever.
Enjoyed the book. Fast read about a pilot with two lives who dies in an explosion on his plane and the surprising details of his involvement.
Reading for my library book club.
I didn't think I would care for this and resented paying $9.99 for the e-book, but it's very good and I don't regret buying it at all now.* * * * *This is a fantastic book.
As mentioned earlier, I didn't expect to be interested in the story of a widow whose husband died in a plane crash, but there is so much more to the tale.
It becomes a mystery to be revealed in small increments as the widow becomes aware that she didn't really know her beloved husband as well as she thought.
Well written, very intriguing, makes me want to read more of Anita Shreve's writing.
