https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7968.Red_Prophet
Red Prophet by Orson Scott Card is the sequel to Card’s 1987 novel Seventh Son. Like Ender's Shadow, the changed perspective sequel to Card’s masterpiece Ender's Game, Card demonstrates his great ability to tell a story from more than one vantage and can even expand this re-telling into another book.
As good a job as Card does at characterization, really very good in fact, building complexities into characters that at first seemed flat, the best part of this book, and likely the high water marks of the series, remains Card’s wonderfully imaginative alternate history of America.
4.0 to 4.5 stars. A very unique, original fantasy (or alterniative history SF if you prefer) by one of the best writers around. Set in an alternative United States of the 19th century, this is a truly American fantasy tale. Wildly inventive and beautifully written. Highly Recommended.Nominee: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1989)Nominee: Nebula Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1989)Winner: Locus Award for Best Fantasy Novel (1989)Nominee: Mythopoeic Fantasy Award for Adult Literature (1989)
It's a shame that there are so few good alternate history books that I have been able to find.
In this world Native Americans: have a connection to the earth that white people don't have, giving them almost magical powers of stealth, evasion, and tracking; cannot adopt any "white" customs (wearing their clothes, using their rifles, drinking their "likker", learning to read...
Anything interesting about the story is overshadowed by this painful over-romanticization of the First Peoples.
And really, there's little that is interesting, since about five years of alternate American history are squeezed into only about 300 pages.
Where the first book revolved around Alvin and his family, however, this one finds him caught up in major events in his world.In our world, the leaders of Native American resistance to White expansion in the Old Northwest were Tecumseh and his brother the Prophet, one the political/military leader, the other the spiritual leader.
Both are in Card's world as well (the former spelled Ta-Kumsaw; here, Indian personal and place names are often transliterated differently, while still recognizable); but here the author posits a basic philosophical difference between the two that didn't exist in the real world: while his brother advocates armed military resistance to the whites, the Prophet counsels pacifism and a strategy based on Indian mysticism and magic.
I loved the Ender series from Card and I appreciated the idea about an alternate US history involving folk magic in the Alvin Maker series.However, I was deeply put off by this 2nd book because it revealed itself to be a racist piece of crap which was poorly written at that.
The romanticizing of Native Americans was atrocious throughout the story, but what really killed me was that at the end of the book ***SPOILER ALERT*** Takumsaw, the big warrior ends up being secretly married to a white lady!
Oh ok, Card, so this means that Native Americans are really cool and stuff, but you know, they never can be all that unless they whitefy themselves.
In a lot of ways, this feels like the second half of a longer novel that should have been paired with "Seventh Son." "Seventh Son" establishes the character of Alvin Miller, Jr. and the fact that he's the seventh son of a seventh son.
"Red Prophet" expands the alternative history of the universe Card is creating, including a lot of time spent on the politics of the universe.
This feels like the second half of what should have been one longer starting novel for the series.
And Card does find ways to intersect the events of "Seventh Son," expanding that book a great deal.
It's a strange thing, but I've owned a copy of this book since my university days, and I'd obviously assumed that I'd read the book having previously rated it. However, once I came to read it again I realised that I'd not read it before at all. Quite why I'd managed to own an entire trilogy for nearly twenty years without reading beyond the first one is a mystery. Red Prophet  is the second in the original Alvin Maker trilogy – like Piers Anthony it seems that Card struggles to put a lid on a go
About half-way through, we catch up with the end of Seventh Son and Alvin meets up with our two Reds.As other reviewers have noted this is fictional history rather than historical fiction.
As we learnt about the 'knacks' and hexes of the white folk in the first book, this time we learn about the 'land sense' of the red man.
The red man must separate from the white man in order to maintain his connection to the land.
Originally posted at FanLit:http://www.fantasyliterature.com/revi...Red Prophet is the second book in Orson Scott Card’s THE TALES OF ALVIN MAKER, an alternate history set in a frontier America in which folk magic is real.
At the end of the story he has a vision of a shining man who gives him moral guidance.In Red Prophet we learn that the shining man is Lolla-Wossiky, an alternate version of Tenskwatawa, spiritual leader of the Native American Shawnee tribe.
Some readers have accused Card of being racist (anti-European), but I didn’t feel this way and I noted that Card gives us many Caucasians to admire and shows us that not all “Red-White” interactions where destructive.Orson Scott Card is particularly good at voice, dialogue, and character nuance.
It also ventures further into 'alternate history' territory (and boy is it alternate!)It's about the well-known Native American leader Tecumseh, and his brother Tenskwatawa, who was known as a prophet.
It's a very allegorical story, but if you want to have a culture be part of an allegory, it works better if it's a made-up culture, not peoples' real lives and history.For example, an critical point in the story is the famous battle at Tippecanoe.
Read RED PROPHET for Alvin, his growing up, his kindness, and his family.
Don't read it for the division between Reds and Whites.
In Card's fantasy America, Reds are connected with the land as part of one body.
Alvin accompanies Red general Ta-Kumsaw in a war against the Whites, a war which the Red Prophet understands will lead to the best solution possible for all the people living in North America.Two good elements of this book stick in my head.
In the Tales of Alvin Maker, this version of Card's often-changing viewpoint, Reds are collectively ideal and Whites are collectively toxic.
I liked the first book the Alvin Maker series, Seventh Son well enough for its folksy look at a young alternative America, filled with homespun magic knacks and big families dreaming even bigger of a better life.
In Red Prophet, we get to see the flipside of the white man's knackery compared to those of the red man.
This is an alternative history of America, mind you, so the events portrayed will be different from what you read in history books.
Red Prophet is, I think, the best of of this six book series.
I adored Seventh Son, but so far, Red Prophet has yet to catch my attention. It's likely that the horrific stereotyping and bigotry oozing from every page has something to do with it.
The complexity and depth of the story was taken to a deeper level in book 2 and now I feel more interest in learning about the real history of what happened at Tippecanoe. I love the world Card has created and how it helps me think about history, religion, and "the other" in a new ways. Excited for the next book!
~This was the first book that I read by the author & I was totally blown away about the story,so many unbelievable happenings all the way through it right up to the end~ ") Looking forward to completing the other books that follow. ")
To see, even if contrived, Cards artists impression as seen through the eyes of the first and birthright citizens of the Americas: "The Red Man", I feel as though I finally understand some of the most hidden longings/propensities of my soul.
Often I find myself feeling apart from the very land itself.
Card has a particularly Interesting way of inspiring the most insatiable curiosity about whatever he is writing about.
I've been Inspired to start reading more history, determined to find more of myself in my ancestors past.
Although we are saturated with modern technology and information, we are all a product of our genealogy and our past.
Storyline: 4/5Characters: 4/5Writing Style: 4/5World: 4/5I admit it; I was spellbound through the first in this series and for half of this second.
The writing is lyrical, the magic enchanting, the characters ever-so-human.
The spell was never fully broken, but it surely ebbed when the placing of Mormon allegories superseded the telling of this folktale, the building of this American mythology.
Then this series might have stood a chance at being the great American fantasy.
Something a little less formulaic and less tidy would have been appropriate for an American tale.
Card has admitted that he can't be bothered to keep track of his plots and characters, and so his other series are always overrun with errors and inconsistencies, and his lack of interest in research is apparent in this silly work of "historical"fiction.
Card hits the reader over the head with black-and-white characters who perform racism with so much naivete that it is painful to even listen to the book.
This befuddles me, as Card so elegantly treats the gray dimension of the saga between good and evil in his other books.
evil white man vs.
I was pretty disappointed with this book.
The second book tried to leap onto a much broader stage and failed.
Focusing on major historical figures far more than on real people, turning them into loathsome creatures with nothing to recommend them.
I find it difficult to relate to anybody in this book because no common sense is shown by any of them.
Everyone is some kind of crazy extremist, and there are only a couple people in passing who seem even human.
If volume three is not an improvement, I may abandon the series.
It is incredibly interesting to see the way the 'reds' did things, so different than the way that the 'whites' did...
I am very curious about the 'visitor', and the little hints that the book leaves behind.
I absolutely adore Taleswapper more and more.
Alvin is just adorable and I'm happy to see his evolution as a character.
One more awesome thing is how it inserts historical characters and contexts, and mixes them up with the wonders of knacks, hexes, and the land sense.
I wish I had the land sense, it seems beautiful!
I'm super excited for the next book!
I had a hard time at the beginning of this book.
But once I really got into it a couple of chapters, I really liked it.
It's very Fictional History, but has a great story to tell.
And for all you LDS readers out there.
It's got a lot of BOM stories going on.
I thought some of that was funny (even though I don't think he intended it to be).I'll probably go back and read Seventh Son again because it's been so long.
If I'm going to read the series I want to make sure I'm clear on the story line.
True rating: 2.5 stars - It's was ok, an average book.This book was a bit of a let down from the first book in this series Seventh Son, as I didn't like the plot in this book nearly as much, with it's Red man vs. White man story line alternate history, which the alternate history thing in these books so far had been interesting, but in this story it feel like Card took the least interesting part of that alternate history and bludgeon me the reader to death with it, and thus my rating suffered accordingly.
If I hadn't read book #1 and wasn't already intrigued with the storyline of Alvin I would have stopped reading this book. It turned out to be good in the end but OSCard did we really need the first 40 pages to be the most BORING conversation ever between two evil men? I kept saying, what about Alvin? I need to know what's happening to Alvin!!But I did like the storyline about the Native Americans and reading about their magical powers, especially over the land. On to book #3!
Enjoyable to imagine what a Native American experience might entail and to follow that thread and give flesh and bone to a people who have never truly been represented to me as anything other than stereotypes. It was good for me to shed immature thoughts and take on respect and endless possible explanations for who these Native American men and women might have been and why. Great storytelling with a strong control of pace balanced with detail/ philosophizing.
I generally enjoy the heck out of this author so this was a real disappointment. Two stars is generous. The racial dividers in this story are awful to the point of ridiculous. What's worse is that characters that I genuinely enjoyed in the first book are twisted so that they fit in to said racial divisions for story purposes. Not a very enjoyable read for me.
A rich and fascinating take on a re-invented American history steeped in Indian lore and filled w/magic.
A pretty good, but somewhat bittersweet read.
Parts of this I really enjoyed, other times I put it down and left it for a while. I have a harder time with alternative history fiction. I also wonder how Native Americans would react to it.
Three and a half. More action and a native American perspective is added, but Alvin's character becomes a foil for the alternative history lesson. And sometimes it seemed like a history lesson.
These books are amazing. Orson Scott Card, wow. To think I was disappointed at the beginning of the first book because it wasn't based in space or the future.
Very creative incorporation of Lehi's dream and the Anti-Nephi-Lehies into the story!
