https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16782.The_Case_of_the_Curious_Bride
Curiosity killed a cat. Nobody could even accuse Perry Mason's book plots of being too straightforward, or being straightforward at all. For this reason my description of the beginning of the plot might not even make sense: it looks something like following: A young woman came to Perry Mason for a consultation. She used old as the world trick saying she was making her inquiries in the behalf of her "friend". Even the most clueless reader could see through it, not to mention a hardened criminal
For this reason my description of the beginning of the plot might not even make sense: it looks something like following: A young woman came to Perry Mason for a consultation.
Perry Mason politely but firmly asked her to come clean, but the woman called his bluff and left.
Something I noticed by reading fifth book of the series: most of the people killed had been really asking for this.
My usual notes about the series apply: a very complicated murder mystery, some very fine and unexpected maneuverings in the courtroom trademarked by Perry Mason make this one a very easy and hard to put down read.
Rather, Rhoda Lorton, was asking the lawyer for help in a domestic case; her 'friends' husband had been missing, presumed dead for 7 years and now this 'friend' wants to know if she can marry again without having evidence of the husband's actual death.What follows is pure pulp, and perfectly paced plotting as Perry Mason unravels a deadly thread of murder, cover-ups and schemes all centered around his apprehensive and somewhat unofficial client, Rhoda.
Perry Mason is an interesting character who I look forward to reading more of (I've got quite a few of these pulps in my tbr pile).
Wham! Bam! Thank you, Perry Mason. :)If you want someone pulling a fast legal one on your enemies, he is you man ... lawyer .... defense attorney.It's one of the early cases out of more than 80 books and it is fast and furious.
Perry starts to feel bad because he was so gruff with the poor young thing, and he feels even worse when Della informs him that the woman had paid a $50.00 retainer!The plot thickens when Perry discovers that the woman accidentally left her purse in the famous leather client chair.
He puts Paul Drake on the case and inevitably, by the end of the afternoon, he knows more about the woman than she knows about herself.Naturally there will be a murder; Perry's client will be arrested and charged and things will look awfully black.
This is my first Perry Mason mystery and I really enjoyed it.I can get over the sexism (a sign of the times) and the use of full names...always...and what is going on with him and Della Street? *wink wink*The mystery was solved in a very satisfying manner and Mason's freedom from the usual methods of investigation was thrilling.I am in awe of his manipulation/interpretation of the law and will certainly be reading more of these!This is my Perry Mason...
One couldn’t possibly have Books and Lawyers as a theme and not read Perry Mason!
This, one of the earlier titles in the Perry Mason series, sees yet another beautiful young woman seeking Mason’s help.
But once found out, she does not come clean and seek Mason’s help deciding to deal with her problem, a blackmailer, on her own.
In this one, Mason’s client is a little more straightforward than usual (never having read these in order, am not sure if this is because it is earlier in the series), but I was almost wondering whether she really did do it, considering all that she said.
Once again they put it all on the line for their client.
In the Case of the Curious Bride they take on the smugness of inherited wealth, the evil of con men who prey on women and a District Attorneys who rush to judgement.
These mysteries are fun who-done-its that use deep psychological motives with the subtlety they deserve.
“You can’t explain your feelings - you can only recognize them.” ”There is nothing that gets a person’s goat like not letting them talk when they are trying to make a play for sympathy.”
This book had the curious woman asking questions for her friend.
When she leaves Perry because of his obvious disbelief, she leaves having paid for his services in advanced.
Perry searches for her and only when she is about to be accused of murder of her long missing husband does he locate her.
He provides some amazing lawyer tricks in the last moments to bring the truth to light.
The blackmailer is a grimy guy and really deserves what he gets.
I love the way Earle Stanley Gardner writes and how his mind works.
I just love Perry Mason and his crew.
I enjoyed this book. I always enjoy a good Peary Mason book with all of its' cast of charictors including Della Street Peary Mason's secretary and Paul Drake Peary Mason's detective. Enjoy and Be Blessed. Diamond
Being one of the earlier books in the series, Mason is still relatively fresh, more of a detective than a lawyer, there is a little distance between Della and him and he is full of tricks! Somehow, I have felt that as more books were added to the Mason Mysteries, the ingenuity slowed down. Mason was made to live up to a certain caricature of a ruthless, strong, well known lawyer; with the solutions conveniently rushed up at the very end. Almost akin to the later Poirot mysteries.
In the couple of books I've read, the emphasis is on Perry getting his client off, and he doesn't seem particularly interested in who committed the murder (always a murder.) In both books I've read, though we find out who committed the murder, it's unclear whether the murderer will ever face justice from the legal system.
Even more different is the way the character of Mason in presented.
As played by the large, imposing, yet also somehow soft Raymond Burr, Mason is rather tenderhearted toward many of his clients.
Mason in the books...Is different than that.
***.This is one of Gardner’s early cases for Perry Mason.
In this episode, Mason is hired by a young woman who was a recent bride of a man who turned out to be someone other than who she thought him to be when she married him.
Our bride was Rhoda Montain.
His particular mode was to marry naïve young women who had managed to save up a little money.
After a while, and after fleecing the young woman of her case, he would disappear.
The problem with this time around was that Gregory Moxley was found dead in his apartment and Rhoda was one of the prime suspects.
CAST OF CHARACTERS Perry Mason - the most famous criminal lawyer in fiction, whose mental agility once again baffles the District Attorney's office...
Paul Drake - the quick-witted private detective who gets himself a job by working a hunch...
Rhoda Montaine - a bride with pride - and ideals...
Carl W.
Montaine - Rhoda's husband, who doesn't make the best use of his fortune or his family...
C. Phillip Montaine - a pedigreed multi-millionaire, Carl's father and his worst enemy...
Danny Spear - a wide-eyed, yokelish private eye...
John Lucas - belligerent and wily deputy district attorney...
Another great mystery!
I like Perry Mason. And Della. And Paul.I liked the Doorbells and buzzers in this one. Clever one.
Perry goes at it again. What a guy! If I ever need a lawyer I'm looking for him. Great stuff!
This was a story packed with action and court room drama and yet somehow I feel a little deprived. As if the author wrapped up the story in a hurry at the end so he could move on to the next one.
I'm still a relative newcomer to Perry Mason, reading them out of order and trying to feel my way through their world.
There's not much of an abstract passion for justice here.The plot, about a new wife accused of murdering her bigamous former husband, is over-elaborate, as often with Perry Mason, and gets progressively more confusing.
Perry and Della romance watch: (view spoiler)[There's an odd and rather touching scene very near the beginning in which they are holding hands in the office and their private detective friend Drake catches them at it and ribs them gently.
I just finished this novel , and wanted to review it " Fresh , " so to speak .
This is one of the earlier Perry Mason novels .
Erle Stanley Gardener was still finding his way a bit in these books .
I liked watching Perry Mason put the smug Deputy District Attorney in his place !!
Sometimes , Hamilton Burger would not be the featured adversary !!
Perhaps Gardener thought that it would get redundant and boring to keep having Burger as the foil .
I recommend this book for any Perry Mason / Mystery fans !!
Another winner in the series, with the author establishing the characters more completely with each book. In this book, it was the first time I could see the Raymond Burr portrayal nearly completely...the staring eyes, the looming presence, the ever-active intelligence planning his next move. I could also see the humor of William Hopper in Drake’s behavior. This is the first of the books I’ve read that I can recall seeing in the TV series. I didn’t recognize it until a particular changing doorbells ruse that Perry perpetrated. Wonderful.
Yet another case in which Mason does not know the identity of his client, well for a short while in this one. Then comes the story the client gives, is fake on the face of it, but then her second story is also not totally true, until Mason figures out the actual real sequence of events, including from the past. Very fast paced and mysterious plot! :)Go Read it.
It was my first Perry Mason Mystery. At first I thought it was too much detail. But now I understand, the details are significant and I need to be patient enough for the details to manifest their significance at the most opportune time. This style of writing is admirable. I would love to read more such mysteries. Of course, it is a pocket book and for leisure reading. It was fun.
I'd seen the film adaptation for this one with Warren William a while back, but the book remains breezy and fun even when you know the twists. Gardner's earlier books crackle with detail and wit a lot more than his later ones, and this is no exception.
We need more men like Perry mason. Tough and clever. Loved it!
One of my favourite Perry Mason books. Loved the trick with the doorbell.
Although he wrote other books (the Bertha Cool/Donald Lam series is actually my favorite) it was the shrewd, hard-hitting lawyer and his devoted secretary Della Street who became instantly recognizable figures all over the world.THE CASE OF THE CURIOUS BRIDE was published in 1934 and strikes me as well-written and well plotted, but dated.
Also, Chapter 15 has Mason pacing his office while discussing the case with Della "his thumbs thrust in the armholes of his vest." It's been a while since I saw a lawyer wearing a vest.
Like most Boomers I grew up watching the TV show, but I had never actually read any of the Perry Mason books.
Of course, try as I might I couldn't help but see Raymond Burr and the rest of the TV cast, no matter what Gardner says about the characters; with an effort I was able to relocate them appropriately to the 1930's.
I'm not likely to read more of these, but if you like a good courtroom drama (and can ignore the looming visage of Raymond Burr), you might want to see if you can get your hands on some.
Rhoda Montain is bride who seeks the help of Perry Mason.
Believing that her first husband was deceased, she has remarried a very wealthy man.
Since he was supposedly dead she wants him declared legally deceased when he is found dead in his apartment.
Gregory Moxley, alias Gregory Lorton, had returned to try to blackmail her.
Now Mason, believing Rhoda innocent, must discover who really murdered Moxley/Lorton.Once again the mystery is so well written that I could not determine who did the murder.
This mystery closes in the courtroom where Mason and the DA battle over the fate of Rhoda Mountain.
A young woman comes into Perry Mason's office, acting nervous and asking about a situation for her "friend." Her friend had thought she was widowed, so she remarried, but then the first husband turned up again.
When Mason calls her on it, she rushes out and doesn't follow the advice he subsequently attempts to give her, which lands her in a heap of trouble.The book was pretty good.
In the end, however, I think the doorbell issue wasn't the most important one for solving the crime.Della was a bit touchy-feely at the end there!
”Perry Mason ja utelias morsian” on huikean jännittävä tarina puolustusasianajajan työstä, jossa mahdottomalta tuntuva tapaus kännetään voitoksi. Tässä kertomuksessa asiakas on syytettynä murhasta, ja kaikki todisteet viittaavat asiakkaan syyllisyyteen, joten Perry Masonilta vaaditaan oveluutta ja nokkelia esivalmisteluja asiakkaansa pelastamiseksi. Teoksen parasta antia ovat oikeudenkäynnit, jotka ovat ilmeisen realistisia kuvauksia aikakautensa lainkäytöstä, koska kirjailija on itsekin lakimies.
