https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/656134.Wee_Gillis
I really enjoyed this.
I found out that Munro and Robert Lawson were the brains behind Ferdinand, so it makes sense this is good.
I love the art work it.
It is simply intricate drawings and it takes place in Scotland.
There are highlands and there are lowlands and Alastair Roderic Craigellachie Dalhousie Gowan Donny Bristle MacMac or Wee Gillis as he is know has family in both places.
He spends time in both places trying to decide where to be, cows or stags.
He ends up deciding both.It really is a fun and beautiful story.
Good stuff.
The ‘highlanders’ and the ‘lowlanders’ don’t get along and eventually Wee Gillis is told he must decide which will be his permanent home.
In the end Wee Gillis doesn’t join either of them, deciding instead to make and play bagpipes right in the middle of the mountain.
One day I asked him what he liked so much about the story and he said, “Because the grown-ups are all grumpy and mad and the kid gets it right.” Come to think of it, we have read plenty of books about kids finding mischief and grown-ups setting them straight.
As it's only 80 pages and mostly a picture book, I snatched it up and read it that night.Wee Gillis is a boy stuck in the middle of two different Scottish cultures.
One parent is from the Lowlands where his family herds cattle.
The other parent is from the Highlands where they stalk stags.
When he is orphaned, he has to pick a family and a lifestyle.Gillis learns how to herd cattle and how to hold his breath and be quiet in the highlands to not scare the wildlife.
I didn't expect to like it much as I thumbed through it before I read it.
But as I read the story and studied the illustrations, I started to really like it!
I like the solution that Wee Gillis found to his problem of choosing whether to be a Lowlander who calls cows or a Highlander who stalks stags.
While the illustrations at first don't look to be very remarkable, I enjoyed the attention to detail - particularly the expressions on the character's faces.
I think some color would have made the illustrations even more remarkable, but I did come to like them a lot even without color as I read the story.
Wee Gillis lives in Scotland, but has a mother from the lowlands and a father from the highlands. Each side of his family tells him to do the opposite. How can he reconcile the different parts of his life? He takes the best of both sides. It is all in black and white. I hope kids today don't find it too old-fashioned and long, beause this book is a treasure.
A little boy of mixed Highland and Lowland Scottish parentage spends alternating years with the two families, learning the respective merits of cow-herding and stag-hunting, and coincidentally strengthening his lungs.
1939 Caldecott HonorFavorite illustration: When Wee Gillis takes the bagpipe and makes a sound for the first time.Favorite line: "They walked and walked not saying a word, down through the valleys and up over the hills, until they found just the right spot for deciding."Kid-appeal: From the writer and illustrator team behind "The Story of Ferdinand." I think kids will appreciate the imperfect Wee Gillis and how he finds his true calling and place in the end.
1939 Caldecott HonorI had the feeling that I had read this many years ago. It was like meeting an old acquaintance and not quite knowing their name, but remembering random things about them. It's great that he is able to learn and grow from both situations and the blending of the families brings a new talent to fruition. The illustrations were certainly distinctive.
Ah...the illustrations and story work together to make this story just perfect. The art of diplomacy and the ability to find one's own way in the world marks the story of Wee Gillis, who lives between two worlds and is forced to choose for himself where he belongs.
This is one of those treasures you find buried deep in an ancient, rural church library. It's hilarious and adorable!!
My wife picked up a copy of this book from the DCM book fair last weekend as we enjoyed reading it to our children when they were young. Wonderful text and illustrations from the team that created The Story of Ferdinand. I can identify with the hero Wee Gillis as he grows up and has to choose between two different career options, or does he...?
Charming, through and through. What a clear, fun picture of Scotland, both in text and in Lawson's illustrations. Leaf and Lawson are a treasure of a collaborative team.
Cute and charming. A story about a boy growing up in Scotland and trying to decide what to do when he grows up. While he travels back and forth from the highlands to the lowlands and back again, we learn a little about what life was like there 100+ years ago. This book was a Caldecott Honor book in 1938. I've read the other Honor book for that year as well as the Medal winner, and this one is my favorite of the three. It should have won.
If you love anything Scottish, you will positively adore this book.
The illustrations are exquisite and do a wonderful job of transporting you to the Highlands.
The story is delightful and will keep children guessing as to the outcome.Ages: 4 - 8#geography #europe #scotland**Like my reviews?
I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too.
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it!
Visit my website: The Book Radar.
Wee Gillis must decide whether he wants to live in the Scottish lowlands and raise cattle with his mother's family or move with his father's family to the highlands and stalk stags. In the meantime, he divides his time between both families, strengthening his lungs and preparing for the surprising happy fate he will one day discover. The detailed black and white drawings pay wonderful attention to the details of the landscape and the figures' faces. The story is equally strong, and I think the ending is particularly amusing, even to today's kids.
His mother’s relatives are all Lowlander Scots, they live in the valleys and tend to their cows, while his father’s relatives are Highlanders that stalk stags.
Therefore, he went to live with his relatives in the Lowlands for a year, where he learned to tend the cows and developed powerful lungs so that he could call the cows loud enough for them to hear through the heavy mists.
The following year he went to the Highlands where he learned to stay stationary for extended periods of time in order to get close to the stags.
Finally, Wee Gillis spotted his uncle Angus with his new bagpipes.
• 1939 Caldecott Honor Book •Really fun and well illustrated book by the creators of The Story of Ferdinand.
Wee Gillis is a Scottish orphan and he alternates years living with his mother’s family in the Lowlands herding cows, and living with his father’s family in the Highlands stalking stags.
I also like that in both the Lowlands and the Highlands, "Every day he rose early and ate a large bowl of oatmeal".
The illustrations are all in black and white, and I liked the red endpapers of Wee Gillis with the stag and cow.
In this day and age, the moral of Wee Gillis packs as much oomph as Ferdinand's.When I tell this story to my 3 month old son, I play loose with the niceties, but stick to the theme:Wee Ronik's mother's relations were all Democrats.
Wee Ronik didn't know what he wanted to be, a Democrat or a Republican...At last the day came when he must make up his mind and decide forever which to be - a Democrat who fought for social justice or a Republican who started businesses...Now Wee Ronik is welcome in the blue cities and in the red suburbs, but most of the time he just stays in his office and runs the biggest tech-company-hiring-women-and-people-of-color-and-folks-from-former-industrial-areas-in-professional-and-executive-roles in all of the United States.
Wee Gillis lived in Scotland. His mother's family were Lowlanders and his father's family were Highlanders. The day came when Wee Gillis had to decide which he was going to be forever. When a stranger came along with a problem, Wee Gillis found the answer for his own dilemma.
Humorous story about a boy growing up in Scotland, pulled between two cultures and how he soles the problem of who he will be. Illustrations are black and white but none the less remarkable. The facial expressions alone are worth a look. A Caldecott Medal Honor book from 1939. A true classic.
Utterly delightful but also wise. The many illustrations are masterpieces of the book arts.
1939 Caldecott Honor by the dynamic duo of Munro Leaf and Robert Lawson.
My dad loved reading bedtime stories such as this one to us as kids. This is one of my favorites, as I got to enjoy his Scottish brogue right before going to bed.
Insert joke involving bagpipes, cows, and deer.Kind of a weird book.
Strangely enough, the story isn't really contemporary.
It's kind of a story of a bygone time, no matter when you read it.There's a little boy named Gillis who lives in Scotland.
So Gillis spends a couple years going between the two, learning how to call the cows in, and learning how to be quiet and hold his breath while hunting stags.
But Gillis can blow it, because he spent all his time holding his breath to hide from stags, and taking in lungfuls of air to call the cows, so he becomes a bagpiper.
Kind of strange.
Great illustrations, as expected. Good story too.
I had never heard of this book until I picked it up for my Caldecott Challenge, but I had heard of the author and illustrator.
Wee Gillis is the story of a young boy whose mother is from the Lowlands of Scotland and whose father is from the Highlands.
Every year he either spends tending cattle in the Lowlands or stalking stags in the Highlands, and it is in these two places that he builds up the strength in his lungs.
The story was very simple, but I really enjoyed Robert Lawson's illustrations.
This is a good Munro Leaf story, but what really drew me to first pick out this book was that it was illustrated by the legendary Robert Lawson, and...
WOW.
WOW.
WOW.
I have seen some truly stunning work come from the illustrator's pen of Robert Lawson, but this, in my mind, surpasses it all.
His rendering of the rugged Scottish landscape was beyond what I thought could be achieved in two dimensions, and the breathtaking detail in some of the pictures nearly blows my mind.
A work that excels.
This is an entertaining folktale from Scotland. We enjoyed the story and we liked that Wee Gillis's decision was a good one for both sides of his family, and one that suited him well too. The narrative is short, with just a few short, simple sentences on each page. And the black and white illustrations are humorous and nicely detailed. We enjoyed reading this book together. interesting quote:"They walked and walked not saying a word, down through the valleys and up over the hills, until they found just the right spot for deciding."
Won a Caldecott. Written and illustrated by the same men who wrote and illustrated "The Story of Ferdinand the Bull". Just didn't grab me. The illustrations only match the story and do not go beyond them as the ones in Ferdinand did. The conflict is resolved by with a deus ex machine insertion - unexpected and ultimately unsatisfying as that is usually not the way people make decisions about great life events. I fail to see the appeal.
I didn't find this story very interesting, it wasn't one of those books that you'd want to read over and over again and I found myself bored more then once during this story. The illustrations were sometimes humorous, but most of the time I thought they were a little too detailed, too many lines. I didn't care for this book.*Taken from my book reviews blog: http://reviewsatmse.blogspot.com/2008...
