https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/156530.Y
This is most likely due to third volume being very foreign political, which gives it some spice, but in the end, it just doesn't cut it enough.
This, again, is most likely due to the political aspect being the same old U.S, Russia, Israel, and wars in the world, and the attempt to criticize under mediocre ability to actually do so.
So, to summarize, it is good, but feels slightly off.Another thing about this series as a whole is that I think the commentary on how women would survive without men must be tongue-in-cheek.
If it isn't, then the author seems to be making it seem like women would struggle without men.
But, I do think it is more likely a case of focusing on extreme response to more quickly get the point across in graphic novel format.
Also, it may be that it is not so much that the women struggle without men, but is trying to show how important the sexes are to reach other.
Volume 3, One Small Step, started as fun and adventurous, but in the second half looses its grip. But it does get back on track at the end.. Looking forward to the rest of the series..."Even death is beautiful, if you are not alone." :)Women and Children first.They jeopardized the future of mankind... for chivalry?Y: The Last Man, Vol. 3: One Small Step is about the only man ("The Last Man") to survive a mysterious plague that wipes out every other male of all the species on the planet ("every mammal with a Y chromosome.
I am just having so much fun with his series :)
At least it's refreshing to see a relatively decent man in this position, actually consistently doing the right thing at the right times.
This is STILL a little toooooooo decent.
I mean, for the sake of saving humanity, especially when there are patches of women doing just fine for themselves, who are willing and able to have children, shouldn't he give his gift...
If he really felt bad, he could at least donate and let her give the human race a chance.Alas.The end of the volume was rather funny.
:) Traveling troupe of women making a play about the Last Man?
In this volume we deal with Yorick FINALLY getting it on with a girl who reminds him of Beth (his pseudo girlfriend), a lesbian affair of sorts between two of the female characters, a subplot about Yorick's older sister, a secret society, an answer as to how Yorick survived, the abduction of Yorick's monkey which sends the group by see heading to Japan and Yorick meeting a super hot and intelligent pirate captain (but she has this one serious flaw, apparently).
My favorite part in this volume was the hallucinogenic voyage undertaken unwillingly by Yorick.
Some say this series saved Vertigo Comics from financial problems.
The story continues of Yorrick, last man alive after a weird plague or something kills off the entire male population.
A secret military Israeli group is after Yorrick and try to kidnap him.
We find out there is a small group of astronauts alive and orbiting the earth, two of which are male.
A new (female of course) secret agent Russian character is introduced.
I don't want to give too much away, so I won't go into any more details.
I like this series, but it hasn't become a favorite yet.
It's entertaining and parts of it are funny, but I feel like it could be better.
I feel like i've been letting the sexism and shitty representation of women slide but by volume 3 it's starting to wear really thin, does vaughan just hate women?
So ultimately kinda disappointed, it's just average not a lot happens i really don't know how this volume adds to the plot in the long run, and i hope the next volume gets better and vaughan settles his ass down on the women hate, seriously dude who hurt you?
So at the end of the last collection, we found out that (view spoiler)[Yorick may not be humanity's last hope after all; two men exist beyond the earth's atmosphere within the international space station (hide spoiler)].
Their eventual plan is to kidnap him and repopulate the homeland becoming the only nation on earth with a male population.The only thing I didn't care for was the mini-story at the end involving a traveling theatre group.
I struggled to give this 4 stars but eventually came to the conclusion that I'm loving this series too much at the moment.
Maybe a 3.5 - 4.0 stars makes a little more sense.
Got this out of the library on the heels of a Washington Post Comics Riff blog reader's recommendation, but if Book 3 of 10 is any indication, I think I'll take a pass on the remainder.I give this book 2 1/2 stars for its high-concept (mysterious plague kills off EVERY Earth mammal with a Y chromosome except for maybe one guy and his pet capuchin monkey)......that suffers from cliched execution (coloring is consistently without depth or nuance, pointless side story at the end of the book even suffers from costume continuity errors).
For me, the best realization of this work via comics came on the splash of p.
So the end of volume 2 left me wanting to find out what happens next - I admit that.
This time I'll start by saying that I still love the art!Look at this piece of candy:So what we have now is women entering romantic relationships as a completely common thing.
I'm also disissing black magic...I also loved this part with In Mother Russia :DAlmost every (but the last in the volume >__< why?!) issue ends so dramatically, the suspense was killing me!
If Hurley likes it, it's gotta be good!
Amirite?One small step…In the third installment of the Y: The Last Man saga, we are informed that Yorick Brown may not be the last man on earth after all!!
Dun da dunnnnnn.
Apparently, there are two male cosmonauts in orbit who are preparing to return to Earth.
This volume has it all: drama, intrigue, action, adventure, comedy, and great art work!!
Imma have to shell out my hard earned pesos to buy the remaining 7 volumes!
Maybe I'm being persnickety, or maybe the previous volume set my expectations too high, but this comic fails to grasp my attention. The only thing that's really pushing me forward is the novelty of the premise and the (fading) hope that maybe this will get better. At times, it just feels like it's trying too hard to be politically/socially profound. The characters are either boring, rash or one-dimensional. The plot is grinding on painfully slow, too many distractions and needless pauses (unless I'm just being overly impatient).
Better than volume 1 and 2.Yorick is still annoying but story is getting more interesting and side cast is continuously good(well most of them).Tragedy and comedy, short spinoff at the end, was also very good.
This story made me wondering about the role of men on this planet, in our lives… Feminists in this book think we women don't need them.
And I don't mind a traditional woman, who is gentle, very feminine, classy and also wants to take care of her man.
All I want is for everyone to be happy, to love freely.
All I want to know is if I could enjoy having a conversation with this person.
The only thing that does bother me is, that I feel women became too tough.
The third volume almost changed the title of the whole series into (view spoiler)[ Y: Not The Last Man (hide spoiler)]. Unfortunately, that almost happened but didn't. Here we see Yorick not depending his survival to his friends. Through his wits and his talent as an escape artist, he managed to stop yet another peril, no in form of an abduction.At first I thought that the play part was a bit of a bore. It ended with some facetious remarks and can even be seen as Vaughan's reply to the bashes and criticisms of his amazing series.
2/5I can't continue this series any longer. I can't handle the writing. It feels so much like some of those cheesy young adult books that I can't bare to read. To most people it will be fine, and I feel like if you don't see anything wrong with the writing then you should continue on. But for me I just can't continue with it. Nothing is keeping me going.
Review in Volume 10.
This was so meta. I like when things go in weird, unexpected ways.
This is as far as I will go with this series.
A bit of a step-down from earlier volumes, in large part because it moves away from Yorick and friends.One Small Step (#11-15).
It's an interesting idea that lets Vaughan really expand the scope of his story, but on the downside it takes time away from Yorick and the rest of our protagonists.
Vaughan's first try on the topic doesn't really come off well, though, the main problem being that the traveling troupe that form the protagonists of this mini-arc don't really have much character.
There's a bit of fun metatextuality and a good in media res story for Yorick and crew, but it's not enough to really make these two issues worthwhile [5/10].
Ampersand is my favorite thing about the series.
I'm not sure how I feel about that last half-ish of this volume, but I'm still really enjoying this series.
Que bajón, me he aburrido como una ostra, mira que pasan cosas pero el desarrollo me ha parecido lentisimo. La dejo, hasta luego Yorick.
Enter international conflict - this series just keeps getting better and better...
If there is a man on board, will he too fall victim to the plague?
Or will Yorick no longer be 'The Last Man'?This is actually pretty interesting stuff, philosophically speaking as well.
This is a nice breather from the regular action, though it ties in slightly with our gang.By far, the coolest part of this whole book is Yorick's lighter, which is inscribed: 'FUCK COMMUNISM'.
Vaughan to make to Ennis.Summing up: bounces back from volume 2, and sets us further along the way.
I want to like this series so much more than I do right now.
But the central premise actually prevents me from liking this as much as I want to - or, more accurately, the way it's treated.
(view spoiler)[In the last few pages of the book, the actors tell Yorick (in disguise, of course) that the last man on Earth commits suicide so that the women can save themselves.
Ugh. I knew exactly what Y: The Last Man was about when I came into the series, but I still can't get over the classic everything-is-still-all-about-the-men thing.
Yorick, 355, Dr. Mann, Ampersand (the monkey), and Natalya (a Russian woman on a mission to await the landing of the astronauts and take them back home) are on a road trip so they can safely bring the astronauts to an underground shelter.
There are two men aboard the ship that have possibly escaped the plague that has killed off all the men on earth except for Yorick.While waiting for the astronauts to land, a group of Israeli military woman are trying to hunt down Yorick.There is an addition at the end of the book that felt like a jarring interruption of the story.
Just doesn't feel like it's part of the story.
4.5Yorick, you're such a nerd ❤️
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
