https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/790171.Kon_Tiki
Aku-Aku followed soon thereafter.In 1978, in the summer following seminary graduation, I was invited by mother to visit her in Oslo before moving from New York City back to Chicago.
Although he was talking to another man, Mother interrupted them as if she knew him to introduce me to the great man as her son.
It's a small country.Mom did know the former prime minister, Gro Harlam Brundtland, and once, walking down Karljohan, Oslo' main drag, with her boyfriend, she recognized, but couldn't exactly place, the portly gentleman walking his dogs in front of them--someone from Chicago, she thought.
Is there a greater classic among adventure books than the reckless Thor Heyerdahl’s story about a 104 day long raft ride through the Pacific in 1947?
The 6 men fighting the elements on a hand-made balsa wood vesel are at the mercy of the acient Gods of South America and the Pacific.
Squids and giant sharks are right under your feet, fish and octopus fly into your face daily.
You just have to put your toothbrush in the water and a fish bites on it vehemently.
I am prepared to fight everyone who says it’s a children’s book.
ولتضف لعلمك علة أخرى قد تدفع الرجال لشد الرحال"ثور هايردال، بطل الرحلة"هي قصة حقيقية، عن متخصص أعراق
WOW!!! This book was recommended to me back in the 1950s by my favorite teacher, Mr. Bailey, who ttaught 8th grade in Paso Robles, CA. I remember going to the Paso Robles library and handling the book back then, but never reading it until now. It took me this long to become interested in seafaring stories. My first one was "The Wreck of the Mary Deare, which made me realize that books about the sea can be very entertaining. This book tops all.
A crazy man with a migration theory tries to convince his Scandinavian buddies to float across the Pacific with him on a balsa wood raft in order to give credence to the theory.
As they value adventure more than their lives, they are persuaded to join.Follow his trail from the conception of the theory to the felling of the balsa wood trees, and from the launching of the craft to its disastrous landing on a fragile South Pacific island.This is the story of Thor Heyerdahl's original voyage.
Super fun read, great travel book.Favorite passage: "Sometimes, too, we went out in the rubber boat to look at ourselves by night.
Coal-black seas towered up on all sides, and a glittering myriad of tropical stars drew a faint reflection from plankton in the water.
The world was simple - stars in the darkness.
Whether it was 1947 BC or AD suddenly became of no significance.
We lived, and that we felt with alert intensity.
We were swallowed up in the absolute common measure of history - endless unbroken darkness under a swarm of stars."
What's in the book cover is correct: "once you start reading this, you cannot put it down". It's an excellent adventure non-fiction book and when I saw Aku-Aku in Booksale, I bought it right away. The vivid narration was so effective that I could actually smell the sea while reading the novel. This was published in 1950 but it is still exciting and informative. I had no chance yet to go the Polynesian islands and South America but after reading the book, I thought I could visualize those places. I finished this book in just 2 days.
This book has captivated me for almost thirty years. I recommend it highly, both for those loving adventure yarns and those interested in anthropology. Whenever you watch a show on the Discovery Channel, History, NatGeo, etc., like as not if the person hosting actually goes out to try something the ancients did, he or she owes a debt to Heyerdahl, who helped 'kill' armchair anthropology, and science, really. Kon-Tiki is the book that chronicles the critical moment.
Part of this book was included in my sixth grade literature reader. After we read it, I swore that I was going to find it and read the whole thing. I finally did, but not until I was about 23 or so!At any rate, it's a story so inspiring, one man's dreams and theories put to the test, I think everyone should read it. Makes me want to sale across the ocean on a big raft!!
I read this in school and hated it. My tastes in reading are quite different now and I think I might reread this. Now I think it looks interesting.
When naval officials inspected the raft prior to departure and insisted he was sailing off to his eminent death and he abort, instead of being discouraged or fearful, Thor was confident his expedition would succeed because his predecessors had.Call it faith or stupidity, everything fell into place from finding the perfect group of 5 men to join his travel to cutting through government red tape and getting funding and supplies.
The true story of a man's unwavering belief in his theory of the peopling of the South Pacific and the courage to risk his own life to prove it.
Thor Heyerdahl's theory was criticized at the time and has since been proven wrong with the help of DNA testing, but his logic makes sense and one can't argue with his spirit.
Even with today's technology such as GPS, few people would venture across the Pacific Ocean on a home-made raft just to prove that it can be done.
Thor and his mates tried it in 1946!
In 1947 Thor Heyerdahl and a few friends built a balsa wood raft on the pattern of ancient Peruvian fishing rafts, then they set off to row and sail it across the Pacific. This was to show that some of the Pacific islands might have been populated by native Americans sailing west, rather than the accepted view that they were populated by south-east Asians sailing east.It is a weak on the anthropology, but an excellent sea adventure.
I read this a long time ago.
I'm having a really hard time reviewing the book's good points because I wanted to enjoy the inspiration for the expedition.
And it *is* his theory (it is in a different, later book) and I have not spent good time scoffing at "brown people dumb, must be aliens" type stuff for nothing.)See, people too ignorant to do more than hope the currents bring them to land were not able to move those gigantic statues.
And, based on all the Moai statue stuff I looked up, Thor Heyerdahl belonged right next to it.
إذ كيف يمكن لهؤلاء القدماء أن يعبروا المحيطات الشاسعة والبحار المضطربة بوسائلهم البدائية؟!وكان رد ثور بأنه سيقوم برحلة بطوف بدائي مصنوع من شجر البلسا، ليريهم كيف أن نظريته صحيحة، وأن تلك الأطواف يمكنها نشر الحضارات عبر البحار والمحيطات، فأبحر في رحلة طويلة لمدة 101 يوم، قطع خلالها 7000 كيلومتر خلال المحيط الهادي، مجتازا بطوفه البدائي عواصف وأمواج عاتية، وقروش وحيتان وأسماك على كل شكل ولون.صنع طوفه البدائي هذا بناء على دراسته لحضارة الإنكا ورسومات لهم أوضحت استخدامهم لقوارب ألهمته لصناعة قاربه.مسار الرحلة التي استمرت 101 يومكتب الرجل رحلته في رواية أسماها "رحلة كون تيكي: 6 رجال وببغاء على طوف في المحيط الهادي"..
I found myself reading passages out loud over and over again, remarking on the sheer insanity of this man and his companions.Baiting sharks, drifting along currents on a raft he had no idea was going to hold together, living on a diet of whatever they could catch to supplement provisions...it's startling and a fantastic adventure.
I also found myself exclaiming "Seriously?!" out loud over and over again, as the crew kept getting into situations that I can't imagine any of my modern seafaring friends daring to attempt.All in all, a very enjoyable read and one I would reccomend to anyone going somewhere sunny with a sandy beach, or in need of some south pacific visuals.
The author never seems to take himself too seriously, even though it is obvious that a lot of research and planning went into the journey.
He just manages to understate the level of detail that went into his plan, revealing it bit by bit as the successful journey proves that the choices made in planning worked.
He and his 5 partners on the raft are young, fit, and full of that post-World War II optimism the men who had survived brought home.
Discomfort is a footnote and curiosity holds center stage (or should I say, center raft).
Such great courage, tenacity, daring, and adventure!!! In our techno savvy, GPS and computer guided world, it's hard to tangibly grasp the accomplishments Heyerdahl and his crew achieved, floating/drifting thousands of miles across the open Pacific for over three months on a raft made of only natural resources. Considerably, phenomenal. A bit repetitive in places, but certainly a great oceanic adventure and biography.
Chán óm, chả có cái gì đáng quan tâm cả.
This was one of my boyhood books that inspired me to be adventurous, to think the unthinkable, to push beyond the usual.
So Heyerdahl decided to have constructed a craft made of the same design and materials as pre-Columbian Peruvians and sail it from Peru across the Pacific to one of the South Sea Islands to prove it could be done, so his theory could be taken seriously.
Had they used dried logs as planned, they would have floundered.And then there's the memoir/adventure tale aspect, which I consider a qualified success.
So it's as an account of nature and the sea that this tale makes up points for me, even if I look at the theories that inspired this voyage with a jaundiced eye.
The Kon-Tiki raft (named for Tiki’s Peruvian title) set off, with Heyerdahl and five other men—four other Norwegians and one Swede—from Peru only after the end of World War II.
Heyerdahl chronicled this amazing adventure in Kon-Tiki: Across the Pacific by Raft, a fascinating account for which the timeline stretches from Heyerdahl’s background research into the origins of the Polynesians, up to the Kon-Tiki crew’s final arrival in Taihiti.
The jubilation at finding themselves in radio contact with hams across the world, men who ended up sharing the adventure in a vicarious way.This is a gripping, exhilarating account of a remarkable voyage.
حوار التطور دا اساسا عمل لنا مشاكل كبيرة في التواصل الحقيقي مع تاريخنا البشري البشر زمان هم هم البشر الآن ..
.. ماكانوش أميبا ماشية ع الأرض زي ما بيتخيل بعض مجاذيب التطور والمتخلفين .....عمنا ثور هايردال عشان يثبت الحقيقة دي لكارهي جنسهم :) قرر يعمل رحلة بنفسه على طوف بدائي في العام 1947 ونقدر نعتبره نجح في اثبات دا فعلا :) <3 *****مستني الخاطرة دي جدا من الكتاب ، لأنه جال في خاطري مثلها وأنا في رحلتي الأربعينية بصحراء مطروح :) "كان عالمنا بسيط جدا ، مجرد نجوم في الظلام ، ونحن نحيا،ونشعر بالسعادة لكوننا أحياء ، وكنا نفكر في الشعوب القديمة ، لقد كانت حياتهم مليئة بالحركة والنشاط ، ربما أكثر من حياتنا في كثير من المجالات ..."
I can't quite put my finger on what's wrong with this book and the narrative.
The book has an air of a cheap Boy's Adventure magazine story circa 1940s.Strangely enough, I did not see any review that points out to the crucial fact that Heyerdahl's theory has not been accepted and new genetic data strongly suggest that it is substantially wrong.
Based on genetic data, it is now believed that Polynesians originally hailed from Taiwan.
كتاب مذهل وممتع جداكنت عارف Thor Heyerdahl من كتابات أنيس منصورو عرفت قصة كون تيكي من كتاب أعجب الرح
I'd find it hard to believe that anyone could read this account without it igniting the desire to set sail across the pacific and let the worries of modern life be carried away by the current.
I've read a fair few books about sailing and life at sea, but none have made me desire that life for myself so much as this.
Mayhaps some day I'll take up sailing after all, to seek new adventures across the endless miles of water, to learn more about this world and feel the pulse of life even in the depths of the ocean.

A movie was made based on this book.From IMDB:Legendary explorer Thor Heyerdal's epic 4,300-mile crossing of the Pacific on a balsawood raft in 1947, in an effort to prove that it was possible for South Americans to settle in Polynesia in pre-Columbian times.
this book was a highlight of my weekend. crazy men wanting to prove a theory by plunging themselves across the ocean on a raft based off ancient design sounds like an expedition I would have loved to taken part in. definitely an unexpected favorite book now.
