https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17347389-the-dream-thieves
My new favorite of my books. It has All of My Favorite Things in it.
Reread SEPTEMBER 2018 The only thing that matters:“Is it your - your thoughts are in Latin? Or the dialogue? Do other people speak Latin in them? Like, am I in your dreams?”“Oh, yes baby.” It amused Ronan to say this, a lot. He laughed enough that Chainsaw abandoned her paper shredding to verify he wasn’t dying.” “While I’m gone,” Gansey said, pausing, “dream me the world. Something new for every night.”This review contains *spoilers*.The Dream Thieves picks up right where The Raven Boys left of
Wasn’t she on her way to work, the same as he’d just come from it?Blue said, “Then don’t be pitiful!”Also, Ronan returning to his childhood home was something I didn’t know I needed until it appeared in the book.“Gansey looked at Ronan.Ronan rubbed a studious thumb beneath one of the leather straps, wiping away the grime and sweat.
But when ley lines running through their sleepy town are awakened, incredible power is unleashed, and none of the boys are prepared for the ordeal that awaits them.I liked The Raven Boys so much that I was nervous going into this one--but I think this book actually surpasses its predecessor, in no small part because of its sharp-eyed character sketches.
The author has the ability to create such fierce depth of feeling towards her characters with a single phrase such as "a teddy bear of a boy," in reference to Ronan's younger brother Matthew, whom you immediately want to cuddle and protect all at once.I haven't been able to stop thinking about this book since I finished it.
I JUST LOVE RONAN SO MUCH OK??ok I'm adding more.I really love how subtle Maggie Stiefvater is when it comes to the "big things" that happen in terms of the characters and what's going on.
I don't want to talk about it too much because of spoilers, but I feel like some authors try to shove information down your throat, but Maggie knows how to do it in a much more natural, REALISTIC way, so much so that you don't even really realize she did it until it's done.
The characters feel like actual people, and their relationships develop in a real and natural way, and I can't get enough.
Their magic. Their quest. Their awfulness and strangeness.Her raven boys.  Every so often, there is a series that absolutely sweeps you off your feet. It's all-encompassing. All-consuming. Everything you have ever wanted in a book. It's simply magnificent.  Ronan Lynch: I am being perfectly fucking civil.Adam Parrish “Do you think you're a train wreck?""That would mean I was on the tracks to start with.” Richard Gansey the Third 'I wish you could be kissed, Jane,' he said. 'Because I would beg
Ronan Lynch: I am being perfectly fucking civil.Adam Parrish “Do you think you're a train wreck?""That would mean I was on the tracks to start with.” Richard Gansey the Third 'I wish you could be kissed, Jane,' he said.
In lieu of writing a book on this book, I'll quote my friend when he first introduced me to this series,
Every audiobook from this series easily makes my top ten list of fave audios.
I love the edge to Ronan tone and the soft hint of a Henrietta accent in Adams.
Here is a brief list of traits I have that made me enjoy this book:➽big lesbian➽likes weird shit➽overanalyzes feelings➽be like "damn what a mood" whenever adam shows up for 2.5 seconds➽deeply relate to the feel of being constantly tired of everyone except ur four weird friends➽writes mental essays on subtext and narrative parallels ➽constantly crying➽depressionalso, I just read this fucking essay, and I remembered how much I would die for these books, and now I'm considering a reread, and you should send me helpI don't know why I've stopped talking about this series in the last year, but this is genuinely, honestly, one of my favorite books of all time.
”All of us have secrets in our lives. We’re keepers or kept-from, players or played. Secrets and cockroaches – that’s what will be left at the end of it all.”Oh god what can I say about this book? I loved it!!! I loved it with all my heart and even though I never wanted it to end I still wanted to know what would happen next! XD Seriously, there is something about the way Maggie Stiefvater describes her world, how she expresses the countless feelings of her characters. With Maggie things are nev
XDTo read “The Dream Thieves” was incredible and I don’t know if it’s even possible, but I think I love all those different boys even more than I did before!!!
Blue considered herself a fairly steadfast, sensible girl, but no matter how many times she heard his torn-up breath seizing in his throat, she felt a little teary.”I really wish we would have seen more of Noah, but since he’s connected to the ley line and Kavinsky and Ronan made it a habit to mess with it through the entire book, there really wasn’t any chance to get to know him better.
And I love Ronan, like, probably far too much...ahhhh he's such an insufferable little JERK but I adore him; omg send help.• I also am still mad at Adam, but not in a "he is a bad character"...more in a "if we met in real life, I would be annoyed at him.
And they knew how bad I wanted to read the next one, but how I told myself I couldn’t read it until this review was done because I’m attempting to learn this thing I’ve heard about called “self control.”But the Tibetan monks didn’t do sh*t, so here I am, attempting to write my way into an opinion.Let’s get started.We can go with my only concrete negative opinion as of this moment: The not like other girls trope rears its ugly head in this book.
I even ended up liking Mr. Grey and in the last book I thought he was a totally evil bastard.
Man. I don't know where to start with reviews like this because the book blew me away.
The ROMANCE!I loved Blue x Adam in the first book, but always loved Blue as one of the best YA characters ever, same with Gansey, and I still would've liked them to be together.
Man, I read a lot of M/M books.
I just know when shit is up, and I knew that boy liked boys.
“If you never saw the stars, candles were enough.”  (Fanart by Aymmi) I have been holding off this review for a while... (In all honesty, I'm already halfway through Blue Lily, Lily Blue and this series is kicking ass so far).There comes occasions where though it's not a 5 star book... When the rating doesn't really matter at the end, because whether you give this series one star or all the stars in the damn universe. It still is unforgettable. ______________ Simplicity   “Arbores loqui latine.
(In all honesty, I'm already halfway through Blue Lily, Lily Blue and this series is kicking ass so far).There comes occasions where though it's not a 5 star book...
There was a scene in the beginning with Gansey on the phone, and all you can develop from the background is that Ronan and Noah are messing around and being teenage boys.
I also am an avid Tumblr user (especially when I search up art and book related stuffs), so going through some of the beautiful fanart really makes me want to consume this series for breakfast and just sit there looking at my self knowing that I have a problem, but being okay with it.
I don’t have a way to describe it and the last time I tried:(She doesn’t understand my feelings, apparently.)Here’s my thing: These characters are fantastic, and the writing is smart.
-	I probably should have started with Blue, since she’s actually the main character, but he is my favorite soooo-	Like the poster-boy for victim blaming, and I need people to stop-	JUST DESERVES BETTER, OKAY.
I get Adam's behavior wasn't perfect, but wasn’t there a better way to have the “It won’t be you” conversation??-	Has a very interesting relationship with feminism I feel like comes from being raised by women and now suddenly interacting with a group of boys.
I love her family, all of the banter between them, the sweetness between Blue and her mom - just everything!
Blue knows that she loves Gansey and that finally comes to light but in a very sad way :-( She knows she can't kiss him because she will kill him, that is her curse.
Unfortunately, he brings some nasty things out of his dreams by accident and almost gets him and a few others killed.
It all works out in the end, thank goodness, when he gets some help from one of Blue's many family members.
Not only that, Gansey, Ronan and Kavinsky themselves all have this passion for cars which show Maggie’s love on the topic even more and hey, anything done with a passion will always be a plus for me.Picture: Kavinsky’s car by Telltale CrumbsFrom what I wrote so far, almost everything sounded like this book will at least be a 4 star but again, sadly I can’t do that for these reason:First, as great as the characterization is, it shouldn’t have to sacrifice the main plot progression completely.
However, TDT took a completely different direction than I'd anticipated and I have to say, I might be one of the few ones who is actually pleased with that.The pace of this book is very slow, probably even slower than The Raven Boys and the build-up to the climax was somewhat lacking as it wasn’t as intense as I’d hoped.
Her actions are based almost solely on what the boys are doing as she spends much of her time tagging along on their quest and not much else.The remainder of her appearances is spent on the continued formation of the love triangle and her confusing shifts in feeling towards Adam or Gansey (or both) which felt somewhat organic in the first book but a bit more contrived here.
When Taylor Swift (??) songs start reminding you of Ronan Lynch (??) oh yes, it's time for a reread  "In and out,Like a motherfucking thief."  I feel this intense love for Ronan that no other character shares. I've been obsessed with him since he first showed up, and it's only gotten worse after that. I enjoy reading about Gansey, Adam, Blue, Noah, but when Ronan is on pages it's like they come to life. I'm telling you, it's not normal the way i feel about him. When i read this book last year i
I feel this intense love for Ronan that no other character shares.
I enjoy reading about Gansey, Adam, Blue, Noah, but when Ronan is on pages it's like they come to life.
When i read this book last year i was mad because i wanted it to be all about Ronan, i realize now that i was being unreasonable.
I was really mad because Adam was getting hurt because of Blue and Gansey!
Now that we have Ronan, how can i stay mad at Blue.
I loved Ronan and Adam in this!
I don't feel any chemistry between her and Gansey or maybe i just don't care.
Something new for every night.”Well, obviously, Maggie Stiefvater can do amazing things with words.
Sometimes I just want to punch him in the face, especially when he behaves like the biggest dipshit earth has ever seen.
I just wish he'd swallow his pride and accept his friend's aid.Anyway, what bothers me most is that sometimes I just didn't understand a single word.
When their words get so cryptic and mysterious that I lose them.)The only thing left to say is that Maggie created such raw and pure characters, that I don't want to let go of them.
“While I'm gone, dream me the world. Something new for every night.”  I feel like I just woke up from a dream. Slightly disoriented, like I can't separate reality from fiction. Like I can't remember the exact context of this bizarre dream but I can recollect scattered images and emotions. Bliss. Anger. Agony. Pain.Love. For this series and its raw, complicated and real characters.   “It was mint and memories and the past and the future and she felt as if she’d done this before and already she
At the same time, Adam struggles to come to terms with the sacrifice he made, Gansey continues his relentless search of the long dead Welsh king and Blue realizes that heart is a traitorous thing and you can't choose who you fall in love with.
When a mysterious man appears and stranger paranormal activity strikes their little town, Blue and her raven boys must solve the riddles of their abilities and the ley lines and discover what they're looking for before it is too late.
I loved The Dream Thieves, but not as much as The Raven Boys.
#1 The Raven Boys ★★★★★#2 The Dream Thieves ★★★★★#3 Blue Lily, Lily Blue ★★★★★#4 The Raven King ★★★★★#4.5 Opal ★★★★★“And Ronan was everything that was left: molten eyes and a smile made for war.” This review took me way too long to write, because it was just so hard to compile my feelings for this book into actual words on a screen.
I love them both so much and I love their interactions together and there is just this one freaking scene that I have probably reread six times now because I can't get enough of it and I'M TRYING NOT TO SPOIL THIS BOOK FOR YOU GUYS BUT OH MY GOD.“In that moment, Blue was a little in love with all of them.Their magic.
5/5 I love Ronan so goddamn much starsPre-Dream Thieves Me: Okay, there is no way I could possibly love Ronan Lynch anymore than I do now.Post-Dream Thieves Me: Think again, bitch.I've written and re-written this review so many times now, that I've just accepted I'll never be able to put into words how much I love this series, and how much I loved this book.
So I wrote a gif-review instead.
Enjoy.This book:Ronan:Adam:Blue:Gansey:Noah:Kavinsky:The Gray Man:Ronan and Kavinksy:Ronan and Adam:Blue and Gansey:Maura and The Gray Man:My reaction to Ronan's second secret:My reaction to the ending:Me after this book:My review of The Raven Boys
***27. March 2016***I rarely ever reread an entire series before the release of a new book, ergo my constant sequel amnesia, but this is the  Raven Cycle  . It's one of those books that just keeps on giving. The more you read, the more you discover. It has a really high reread factor as well because future actions shed light on past actions, turning each reread into small treasure hunts looking for those hints peppered into the story. And the characters, don't get me started on the characters. T
March 2016***I rarely ever reread an entire series before the release of a new book, ergo my constant sequel amnesia, but this is the 
. It's one of those books that just keeps on giving.
Their character exploration is insane and subtle and beautiful.
I know, normally I'm all about character development, but this wouldn't be the right word to use here.
She's an empty cup brimming with potential.
They grow IN to their characters.
They grow IN to their characters.
Book by book they turn their potential into something real.
I DON'T WANT TO WAIT TILL THE LAST BOOK.

I officially love Ronan and the Gray Man.Ronan fucking Lynch:
I finally understand why everyone is so crazy over this beautiful little fucking bastard.
He deserves all the fucking love.
So like, since my brain is dysfunctional, I keep on saying Ronan Lynch out loud and this is an actual conversation I had with my sister.
WHy are you ALWAYS saying RONAN LYNCH?!?!?!?!Me: Child, you don't know who this Lynch is because you never fUCKING READ.
Sister: Get a life Sun. Me: dO yOu wAnT tO sTaRt a fIgHt?!When I found out about Ronan's second secret(view spoiler)[ (hide spoiler)]Just fuck me up please.
So much love for the Raven Boys *sigh*
The Dream Thieves (RC 02), by Maggie Stiefvater: 5 “Dreams Come True” Stars “A secret is a strange thing.” ~ Ronan Lynch.If anyone knows about strange secrets, it’s Ronan Lynch.
Turns out, Richard Gansey III’s left-hand man has lots of secrets.
In The Dream Thieves, book two of Maggie Stiefvater’s Raven Cycle series, we learn them all.
“Every day, thousands of confessions are kept from their would-be confessors, none of these people knowing that their never-admitted secrets all boil down to the same three words: I am afraid.” ~ Ronan Lynch.
Because:TRUTH: Everyone does have secrets.
All of us have secrets in our lives. We’re keepers or kept-from, players or played. Secrets and cockroaches — that’s what will be left at the end of it all. Blurb: If you could steal things from dreams, what would you take?Ronan Lynch has secrets. Some he keeps from others. Some he keeps from himself.One secret: Ronan can bring things out of his dreams.And sometimes he's not the only one who wants those things.Ronan is one of the raven boys - a group of friends, practically brothers, searching
That by itself is a rarity but when you combine likeable characters with actually great characterization, good development and a compelling story, well, you have the keys to success.I can’t say I liked this one better than the first one, maybe I liked it a tiny bit less but that doesn’t mean I didn’t love it.So, this second book is mostly about Ronan and Adam.
4.5, review to come later.
Rex Corvus, parate Regis Corvi.The Raven King, make way for The Raven King. *rolls out the red carpet I hand-stitched myself*One word: Ronan. Ronan, Ronan, my dearest snake, Ronan. This book would be amazing just on the basis that it features an exclusive look at one of the most enigmatic characters in the series. Although, that isn't saying much seeing as all the characters are onions of mystery.  However, Maggie Stiefvater is a gifted storyteller, and amazing characterization isn't all you wi
With The Raven Boys (book1) and The Dream Thieves, you don't just get a little bit of character development and setting in the beginning and then have the rest of the story be all about the plot.
More in the 'why am I not in this book and a character in this story' kind of way.
I didn't know how to feel about him when reading The Raven Boys but we learn more about him in book 2, much more.
"Suddenly, for the briefest moment, panic forced itself up. Am I a dream creature? Would I know?" ► 4.5 stars. No one is more flabbergasted than me to realize - to confirm - that Ronan Lynch is undoubtedly my favorite.RONAN. FREAKING. LYNCH.Ronan, who's so keen on showing the kind of thrill-seeking, self-destructive behavior I would usually hate and manages to make me love him nonetheless. Tell me, is there something more powerful than the annihilation of a usual revulsion? I don't think there
LYNCH.Ronan, who's so keen on showing the kind of thrill-seeking, self-destructive behavior I would usually hate and manages to make me love him nonetheless.
"Ronan watched Gansey over the body of the creature - it seemed even larger in its death - and his expression was as unguarded as Gansey had ever seen it.
A look into who Ronan really had been the entire time he had known him.
Now it's the opposite, but I don't care, it doesn't change anything because in the end, above the characters, what's important here are the dynamics and the relationships between them all.
"Ronan Lynch's second secret was..."
4.25 stars!!!  In that moment, Blue was a little in love with all of them. Their magic. Their quest, Their awfulness and strangeness. Her raven boys Uhhhmmm, excuse me Blue? They are  my  Raven Boys, not yours.Where do I start again? Oh! How about this book is better than the first one and it contains a black belt in self-destruction? Maggie has the power to blow my mind into smithereens and the capability to shoot a bullet (using a shotgun, mind you) straight to my heart...It took me a month t
I like the plot better than the first book but it was still slow.
LOLWhat's new in this book?(view spoiler)[- The stronger bond between the gang-The slowly but surely progress in finding Glendower-The blossoming somethings between the characters (it was a very covert so you guys should pay attention to every single word in that book)- The revelation of Ronan's past-A new and very intense enemy- The sudden death of that said enemy (hide spoiler)]What's old?-My irritation with Adam's existence-Blue's feminism-Noah's smudginess -Ronan's do-not-fuck-with-me attitude-My love for GanseyUnfortunately, the plot was still slow and I kept waiting for something more to happen...
