https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4406.East_of_Eden
“All great and precious things are lonely.” Such an amazing book. An instant all time favourite.I'm sure you've heard of this book. Often touted as one of the "greatest novels of all time" or "books you must read before you die". For some reason, I've been putting it off. Maybe because I was made to study Of Mice and Men to death in school, or maybe because I thought The Grapes of Wrath was a little overrated. But I've been missing out.A closer look should have told me that. Because I love fami
They always leave me feeling emotional.East of Eden is a great book from every angle.The characters come bounding off the pages, offering a sort of Cain and Abel retelling set before, during, and after the great westward migration of early modern America (it's no coincidence that the Trask brothers are called Charles and Adam).
It's rare that a book is both a thoughtful historical tale with strong themes, and a fast-paced, highly-readable romp through the lives of people who are smart, naive, calculating, lovable, mean, selfish and confused.
You will often hear it referred to as a "modern retelling of the Genesis story of Cain and Abel" but that is too simplistic.
Steinbeck takes the story of Cain and Abel and makes Cain (in the form of Cal Trask) the sympathetic character.
This book has been criticized for being too verbose, meandering, inconsistently paced, and heavy handed in its parallel with the story of Cain and Abel.
As for the parallel with Cain and Abel, it is heavy-handed.
But Steinbeck isn't trying to hide it--he makes it clear that the story of Cain and Abel are an integral part of his story.
I hate this book.
The fact that people worship this misbegotten mess of a book as they might worship pieces of the True Cross is just plain depressing.
For this they gave him the Nobel Prize?********After deleting I don't know how many comments calling me names and getting several pieces of hate email, I'm adding this addendum, because it will save both me and a bunch of other people from wasting time: I'll delete any comments that I consider abusive or that I think constitute ad hominem arguments, so do keep that in mind if you're considering posting a long screed.
But English from me they don't listen to, and so they don't understand it." (P.161)Time flies: "The clock struck nine deliberate strokes and they were swallowed up." (P.449)Frustration with time scheduling: "One thing late or early cab disturb everything around us, and the disturbance runs outward in bands like waves from a dropped stone in a quiet pool." (P.530)East of Eden uses a plethora of Biblical analogies starting with that in the title referring to the expulsion of Adam and Eve from Eden - here Adam is expulsed from his home (though it was hardly a paradise) and thrust into the hell of a senseless war.
It is a long narrow swale between two ranges of mountains, and the Salinas River winds and twists up the center until it falls at last into Monterey Bay»"East of Eden" is a powerful novel, thick with biblical reference, in which the characters seem real and not fictional, protagonists of a generational saga about good and evil.
You will love all the characters of the novel, every last one of them.
You will love the storytelling power of John Steinbeck.
Amerete tutti i personaggi di questo romanzo, dal primo all’ultimo.
Amerete la capacità narrativa di John Steinbeck.
Their lifeline is the freedom of CHOICE, not dogmatic obedience:"And this I believe: that the free, exploring mind of the individual human is the most valuable thing in the world.
This is what I am and what I am about."Of all the books I don't have time to reread, this is the one that is tempting me most - like a snake-Eve pointing towards a shiny apple - this is where you will find the knowledge of good and evil, and it is your choice if you read it or not!It will make you shiver - with fear and admiration for the human imagination!
The book starts off in the first-person narrative, ostensibly Steinbeck himself, only to suddenly disappear and give way to an anonymous omniscient narrator.
In placing the responsibility of the actions on human beings instead of an almighty presence, he is challenging the reader to call into question his own beliefs on fate, free will and guilt.Hatred, envy, revenge, self-doubts and misguided fears haunt the heroes of this story, and they fight the dehumanizing effects of such visceral feelings with the only weapon Steinbeck approves of: love.
Paradise might not exist, but Steinbeck proves that loving others selflessly is the safe path to save us from ourselves.
Very easy for me to rate this book 5 stars.
At each of those stations is a main table with an awesome featured food (thick cut prime rib, chocolate fondue fountain, Mongolian BBQ bowl, etc.).
In layman's terms, there is SO MUCH awesome story here with a HUGE payoff every 50 pages or so.
I am very satisfied with the story I got - full of literature!Oh, and this book has one of the most heartless and despicable villains ever put on paper.
I recommend this book to anyone that wants to read a decent story told very well.
روح الإنسانالشيء الجميل الفريد في هذا العالمدائما ما تهاجم ولا تهزم أبدالي تاريخ قديم مع شتاينبكوهو من أوائل من قرأتُ لهم بالإنجليزيةوقد أدمنته على الفورتستطيع أن تقول أنه فهمني جيدا ففهمته جيداوأحببت حقا ما فهمتهذه هي الرواية الأهم والأشهر وإن لم تكن الأقرب لقلبي كما هي رواياته العظيمة الأخرىاللؤلؤة،عناقيد الغضب،ورجال وفئران;;;;;;;;;;;جنة عدنهي المكان الذي تبدأ منه كل الحكاياتكل ما هو قادم وكل ما هو كانالخطوة الأولى في تاريخ الإنسانيةالخطيئة الأولىالصراع الأول"دم أخي لطخ يدي"شرقي عدن -المكان ال
روح الإنسانالشيء الجميل الفريد في هذا العالمدائما ما تهاجم ولا تهزم أبدا‏لي تاريخ قديم مع شتاينبكوهو
However, Abra, Aron's girlfriend, is a wonderful character, especially in her resistance to Aron's false idealization of her and her parents' focus on social position and wealth.The Cain and Abel theme, which shows up with Adam and Charles and resurfaces in the second generation with Aron and Cal, was fascinating: not just the good and evil dichotomy (though the evil is mixed with some good, and is often more just human weakness), but also other echoes of the original Biblical story.
I loved how Steinbeck humanizes the Cain characters and emphasizes how we all have a choice in how we act and react to events in our lives."The American Standard translation orders men to triumph over sin, and you can call sin ignorance.
Adam Trask was a weak but kind boy , and later man, his father treated him quite badly, even his jealous, sadistic, half- brother, younger but stronger, hit him repeatedly , barely surviving one brutal, vicious fight.
Born in the middle of the American Civil War, in a Connecticut farm, he and brother Charles, are turned into good little soldiers, at a very tender age.
Cyrus their father lost a leg, in the war, boasting of being in every major battle (which is physically impossible).
At 17 years old I identified with the rejected child and at 35 years old I felt more the emotions of a parent who doesn't ever want her children not to feel loved and accepted.
Many of Steinbeck's monologues that were relevant to the story which takes place in the late 1800's and early 1900's were also applicable to the time Steinbeck wrote the novel, the 1950's, and are still relevant today in 2008.I particularly loved this quote:"I don't know how it will be in the years to come.
While there were a few turns on the journey that confused me and seemed to take the book in a different direction, his connecting all the characters, the stories and do it with profound meaning is nothing short of brilliant.
For me, the central part of the book was the realization made by Lee, Adam and Samuel when they were dissecting the story of Cain and Able and their offerings.
And unto thee shall be his desire, and thou shalt rule over him."It was while reading a different translation that Lee, a Chinese servant, noticed a difference.
These two are almost a complete antithesis to one another & they are both so incredibly central to every major plot point in the story, even as it spans across many years.While both definitely became favorites of mine in their own respect, Cathy is an especially wonderful character & probably one of the most terrifying/intriguing I've ever come across in any novel.
It's simultaneously a lovely reminder that we have a choice in how we react to the brokenness we may inherit.Finally, all the Biblical parallels here were just so much fun to point out especially since I read this book with a wonderful group.
It is one of those novels that really isn't over when you finish reading it as it stays with you inside your head and heart forever.
There is so much to ponder: Just a simple question like, "What am I here for?" or to feel the story of Cain and Abel come to life; and gosh, I don't think I will ever forget the meaning of the Hebrew word Timshel (thou mayest) a very important symbol in this book meaning we have a choice to choose between good and evil.Each and every one of the character's in this novel are engaging and memorable, but for me Samuel Hamilton and LEE outshine them all; and while reading this UNPUTDOWNABLE classic, I was trying to remember a book I've EVER read that had such an evil villainous bitch as Cathy (Kate) who executes absolutely despicable and unforgivable acts of harm to just about everyone in her acquaintance.
I’m happy to say that while this was a bumpy revisit, “East of Eden” remains one of my favourite books!
John Steinbeck remains one of my favourite authors because his books are raw and honest.
“East of Eden” is different and I had forgotten most of it when I started my reread, but once I got started everything came back to me, and towards the end it became clear to me why I love this story so much.
Lee is another absolute favourite character of mine who surprises you and takes you by storm, and he’s one of the characters I’m going to miss the most after having finished this novel.

"And now that you don't have to be perfect you can be good."This book is one of the masterpieces of literature. A story that will stand the test of time, with vivid, unforgettable characters that will haunt you long after you've closed the book. East of Eden is the story of life. It's a story about brotherhood, jealousy, anger, pain, love, evil, sacrifice, redemption. It's one of those books you want to thrust into the hands of your friends, family, neighbors, peers and shout, "Read this, it's going to change your life!"
East of Eden, John Steinbeck (1902 - 1968)East of Eden is a novel by Nobel Prize winner John Steinbeck, published in September 1952. Often described as Steinbeck's most ambitious novel, East of Eden brings to life the intricate details of two families, the Trasks and the Hamiltons, and their interwoven stories. The novel was originally addressed to Steinbeck's young sons, Thom and John (then 6 and 4 years old, respectively). Steinbeck wanted to describe the Salinas Valley for them in detail: the
Steinbeck wanted to describe the Salinas Valley for them in detail: the sights, sounds, smells, and colors.Characters: Mr. Edwards, Ethel, Lee, Faye, Tom Hamilton, Cyrus Trask, Mrs. Trask, Alice Trask, Adam Trask, Charles Trask, Aron Trask, Caleb Trask, Samuel Hamilton, Liza Hamilton, George Hamilton, Will Hamilton, Joe Hamilton, Lizzie Hamilton, Una Hamilton, Dessie Hamilton, Olive Hamilton, Mollie Hamilton, Cathy Ames, Abra Bacon, Joe Valeryتاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه آگوست سال 1984 میلادیعنوان: شرق بهشت؛ نویسنده: جان ارنست اشتاین بک؛ مترجم: بهرام مقدادی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، بامداد، 1361 1362، در 3 جلد، موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان آمریکایی سده 20 ماگر «جان اشتاین بک» در سراسر عمر ادبی خویش، جز همین «شرق بهشت»، کتاب دیگر ننوشته بود، باز هم شایسته و سزاوار همه ی شهرت و افتخاری بود که نصیبش شده است.
Bulgarian review below/Ревюто на български е по-долу Human life is a repetition. It repeats the lives of old and it repeats itself. Human life is also a spiral. Sometimes it seems we are walking in circles, but actually we’re getting ever so slightly closer to the center. We make mistakes that people smarter than us and people more stupid than us also made, but we continue moving towards our own centers. Everything that could ever be done has already been done, we only change it a bit and adapt
The characters of Sam and Cathy prove the simple principle that if you are deprived of something, then fate, nature or whatever it is that takes care of these things, gives you something else in abundance in order to survive.
Той е въплъщение на кроткия възторг от битието, човек, който може би е осъзнал една от най-важните истини – трябва да се радваме на всяка дреболия, иначе за какво ни има?
И той като Кати носеше нещо у себе си, което не можеше да усмири.
“Timshel” It’s the Hebrew word meaning “thou mayest” and is the lynch pin concept that this glorious novel swirls around – basically, we as humans have the power to choose our paths in life, whether it’s to be good or evil or somewhere in between.This isn’t the perfect book, but it’s sort of like a beautiful woman, who has a chip in her front tooth, the imperfection is there to heighten the beauty around it, not detract from it. Steinbeck has arguably never been better; the description (read: i
The tear-jerker of an ending is one of the best I’ve ever read.The film with James Dean, although good, doesn’t really do this sprawling book justice, plus Julie Harris was horribly miscast as Abra.This is the best book about an evil psychopathic hooker by a Nobel Prize winner ever written!
So kudos Mr. Steinbeck for writing the best book I’ve read in quite a while.This was a buddy ready with my thunder buddy (reader) for life: Stepheny.Literature comes alive and who wouldn’t give over a Nobel Prize for this.
So FANTASTIC!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
That's what's going on at the core of the story, but there's so much more here that Steinbeck wants us to see besides "the story of Cain and Abel isn't as simple as it seems." The book starts out with Adam and Charles Trask - one brother is good, one brother is bad.
More stuff than just Cain and Abel retelling happens, as I said, but some of the best parts of the book come when Steinbeck has his characters openly discuss the similarities between their lives and the Biblical story.
Had my first encounter been East of Eden, I most likely would have already read everything else he's written.This is the the age-old story of the struggle between good and evil, but with an interesting twist.
Steinbeck sees the coexistence of good and evil as necessary for the emergence of character or greatness.
For others (Sam, Lee, and Cal) good and evil constantly struggle for domination.
Even when the good naturally dominates, one must exercise free will to exhibit character or achieve greatness.
Sam and Lee are both considered good men, but each must choose actions that hurt Adam and Cal respectively, to bring them to necessary realizations.
I want them to know how it was, I want to tell them directly, and perhaps by speaking to them directly I shall speak directly to other people.Steinbeck wrote that he planned to tell his sons “one of the greatest, perhaps the greatest story of all – the story of good and evil, of strength and weakness, of love and hate, of beauty and weakness” and that he wanted to demonstrate “how these doubles are inseparable – how neither can exist without the other and how out of their groupings creativeness is born”.
Inserting himself into the narrative as both the narrator and as a minor character, Steinbeck wrote about the Salinas Valley and about his mother’s family, the Hamiltons, with tenderness and love.
This is a long, long sermon masquerading as a novel.
Its aim seems clear- to be the great American novel.
There are two women characters, one evil and exaggerated to the point of absurdity, and the other just a plot device.
And the ‘chinaman’ has to be one of the most ridiculous characters in all of literature.The weak characters are further undermined by the stilted and unnatural dialogue, which in no way resembles conversation as I have experienced it.
The characters take turns giving soulful, melodramatic speeches on the human condition.
The ‘chinaman’ is especially painful in this regard.
One word- EPIC
On a side note, this is the 100th book I’ve reviewed this year, and I’m incredibly thankful that such a title fell onto a novel that mattered so much to me.This was my first fully engaged experience with Steinbeck, and I was completely blown away.
The linchpin of the entire story is the conversation they had about the Hebrew word Timshel, translated by some as “Thou shalt” and others as “Thou wilt.” But Lee contended that a third translation held more truth: “Thou mayest.” Free will is imperative to humankind; without it, we would be mere automatons in the hands of God. But instead, He imbued us with the capability of determining our own fate.
Απευθύνομαι σε όλους τους φίλους που μέσω Goodreads ανταλλάσουμε σκέψεις ,απόψεις,like και εκτιμώ τη γνώμη τους.Αν είναι ένα βιβλίο που οφείλουμε να διαβάσουμε το Ανατολικά της Εδέμ δεσπόζει ως το πιο αντιπροσωπευτικό δείγμα.Η πένα του Steinbeck αφοπλίζει από τις πρώτες σελίδες.Μυθιστόρημα με ένταση,αγωνία και αλησμόνητους χαραχτήρες: Σάιρους, Σάμιουελ,Λίζα,Κέιτ,Αντάμ,Λι,Άαρον,Κειλεμπ και δεκάδες άλλοιΣυνθέτουν μια ιστορία του καλού και του κακού σε αντιπαλότητα, της δύναμης και της αδυναμίας,της αγάπης και του μίσους,της ομορφιάς και της ασχήμιας αλλά και του φθονού,της προδοσίας και της θνητότητας. Ο Μιχάλης Μακρόπουλος έμπειρος και αξιόλογος μεταφραστής έδωσε μια πιο σύγχρονη πνοή στο κείμενο.
There is only one story which, from time immemorial, has been relentlessly reappearing in different forms, faces, and times and that is the never-ending battle between the Good and the Bad, the Gods and the Monsters, the Christ and the Satan, the Angels and the Demons, the crop-farmer and the shepherd, Folly and Wisdom,  We and our alter-ego . Not always the Good wins. Not always the Bad loses. A victory gets replaced by a sliding defeat of same height and a defeat by a rising victory of same he
There is only one story which, from time immemorial, has been relentlessly reappearing in different forms, faces, and times and that is the never-ending battle between the Good and the Bad, the Gods and the Monsters, the Christ and the Satan, the Angels and the Demons, the crop-farmer and the shepherd, Folly and Wisdom, 
I think everyone in the world to a large or small extent has felt rejection.
Let's suppose God liked lamb better than vegetables.
And God said, 'I don't like this.
In the old lands, they say of us that we go from barbarism to decadence without an intervening culture.
