https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7171856-the-puppet-masters
You are a devil, Bob Heinlein.First published in 1951, this is a couple decades before he took the turnpike exit to weirdville, and this is not bad at all, but we may be seeing early glimpses.Heinlein took the concept of Invasion of the Body Snatchers (Jack Finney’s classic Cold War allegory was actually first published in 1955 – AFTER Heinlein’s continental nudist colony) and tooled it to a SF alien invasion for a vehicle to espouse civil libertarian and free will doctrines.
Evil, slug-like aliens land on Earth. They attach themselves to people and take over their minds. After a while, everyone has to walk around completely naked, so that you can spot the ones who have a slug attached. I just can't understand why Paul Verhoeven didn't film this. He could have combined Starship Troopers and Showgirls into one movie, and both he and the rest of the world would have been happier. My guess is that he discovered the book too late and has been kicking himself ever since.
I enjoyed this book for its story which was well thought out and interesting. However it's age definitely showed mostly in the naivety of the writing. I can't really describe what I mean exactly but if you read it I think you will understand straight away. And the dialogue left a bit to be desired as well. Nevertheless it is a true science fiction story of the old kind and it is very readable.
Buddy read with Anne coming up in August 2015 maybe, someday, if she's ever in the mood for it. :)I  loved  this old pulpy SF novel when I was a teenager. I'm a little nervous about how it will hold up on reread. But how bad can it be with a cool concept like "evil alien slugs take over your brain"???
Robert Heinlein's The Puppet Masters is both an action-oriented adventure story about parasitic slug aliens attempting to take over the world and its citizens and social commentary on Communism and the Red Scare.
The final chapter of the book sees Sam and Mary packing up to go to Titan and finish off the rest of the slug parasites so they cannot return and attack again in the future.
I expect sexism from a novel straight from the 50s - whence also many pulp novels and films - and so try not to let it overly determine my feel for the work as a whole.
One of the characteristics of pulp and noir that makes the genre so compelling is the juxtaposing of the male protagonist with a female who actually challenges him.
But, despite Heinlein's early hints and implications that this is the kind of dynamic he's cultivating, Mary does none of the above for "Sam", the hero of The Puppet Masters.
For heaven's sake don't try to read anything allegorical into it or you're bound to find issue with it.Okay, the novel is undeniably dated but it shouldn't jar with most modern readers unless they are particularly sensitive to these things.
It does feel like a novel written in the 50's but it is set several decades in the future which might lead some to criticise Heinlein of failing to anticipate the direction social/technological development would take but I think that would be a distraction from the many qualities this book has to offer.Read it for what it is; a period SF piece full of excitement and suspense.
Zumindest in der deutschen Übersetzung liest sich dieser typische 50er Alien-Invasion-Paranoia-SF-Roman so eigenwillig, dass ich von der Handlung oft regelrecht abgelenkt wurde und mehrfach das Buch zuklappte.
Hinzu kommen Sprünge und ein höchst eigenwilliger Erzählrhythmus; manche Merkwürdigkeit stellt sich allerdings zu einem späteren Zeitpunkt als gewollt heraus, so die überstürzte Ehe zwischen Sam und Mary.
Jedenfalls sind Sam und Mary keine Geschwister, auch wenn sie sich zu Beginn zwecks Tarnung als solche ausgeben.Mein Eindruck ist, dass dieser Roman in jedem Fall im Original gelesen werden sollte, weil letztlich nur dann zu beurteilen ist, welche Eigenheiten der Übersetzung geschuldet sind und welche Heinlein beabsichtigt hat.
El porqué, pues por ser un gran libro con una excelente historia, bien narrado y construido, con un ritmo envidiable y un excelente desarrollo, interesante en todas sus partes y a lo largo de la obra sin desfallecer en ningún momento, con unos buenos personajes, eso en general, y en particular ( para el género) por ser un poco el ABC de la invasiones extraterrestres; por tanto, Heinlein (como siempre) acaba siendo con ésta obra el precursor de los posteriores “homenajes” a tan estimables obras cómo: Alien, Aliens, La cosa, La invasión de los ladrones de cuerpos, incluído James Bond ...por nombrar unos cuantos títulos.Pero voy allá con unas pinceladas de la novela que quiero destacar y su argumento...Nos situamos en el año 2007, cuando uno de los mejores agentes del servicio secreto de inteligencia de EEUU, “Sam Cavanaugh es enviado junto a una compañera “Mary” por su jefe, “El viejo” (todo ésta comillado por un sentido pero no voy a hacer spolier, lo tendréis que leer), el cual se añade como tercer miembro y testigo directo, a una expedición para investigar el aterrizaje, supuestamente falso en Iwoa, de un platillo volante.
And indeed I haven’t read it in its ‘uncensored’ version, which was published in 1990 with the tale increased from about 60 000 words to 96 000.So: it was time to revisit!Puppet Masters is Heinlein’s version of an alien invasion tale, written at a time when such tales were popular in film and in prose.
Mary, being the typical Heinlein heroine, notices she doesn’t get a reaction from the adult males that she usually receives – the drooling is pretty much left to Sam.Things develop as Sam and his colleagues quickly discover a secret invasion is going on that seems to suggest the future of the human race is at stake.
One of the better and also most original invasion novels out there.Update: My attention brought back to this one, so I thought I'd include a "by the way".
He also put me in mind of The Man From U.N.C.L.E. a bit in that....you inter HQ through a rare stamp shop where of course if you ask about the agency you'll be told you're crazy and the proprietor will try to sell you a 2 Penny Black.Anyway, still a great read, usually considered a YA or "Teen" book.
Solider Invasionsroman des Libertären unter den klassisch gewordenen Sci-Fi-Autoren: Freiheit ist stets gefährdet und immer umkämpft.“Der Preis für die Freiheit ist die Bereitschaft, sich unverzüglich, überall, jederzeit und rücksichtslos zum Kampf zu stellen.” (S. 299). Recht hat er.
Apparently this was the extended version, and I guess they just stuffed back all the embarrassingly-bad, sexy repartee and other bits that should have remained on the cutting-room floor.Most readers either love or hate Heinlein, and I've only read a few of his books, having absolutely hated Starship Troopers and Stranger in a Strange Land, but really liked The Door Into Summer.
But the plot itself just completely stalls partway through the book, as what I would expect to be the finale comes in the middle, and so I couldn't bother myself to read any further.We all know that the attitudes toward women were pretty cavalier and sexist back in the Golden Age of SF, but this book really took the cake.
Unfriendly aliens from Titan have arrived on Earth and are planning to conquer us.
The aliens are rapidly spreading in the Midwest and they’ve managed to infiltrate the Treasury Department.
To make world domination go even faster and easier, they’re planning to get the President of the United States.
That’s why Sam Cavanaugh, secret agent, has been called in from his vacation.
He’s teaming up with Mary, a beautiful red-head, to stop the invasion.
But Sam and Mary soon learn that even secret agents are susceptible to alien body snatching....
The audio reading was pretty good, but I didn't care for the story as much as I recall.
There was so much dated about it, both the technology & the sexism.
Heinlein's never been great at characterization - some have said he only has one main one & I think they have a good point.
In this one, we saw that character as a 30 year old & an older version, plus a sort of female one.
The technology was kind of fun in a pulp way.
This book just didn't hold up nearly as well as some of his juveniles that I've read recently.
Another Heinlein masterpiece. It's always funny when there is a date specified for the action in the book - which in this case was over 50 years in the future, but currently 5 years in my past!
I had the extended version of this book and made it through to page 199.
Had I read the original version than I would have finished the book making it that far along.
Somewhere along the way there were additions made to the story to extend it to 370 pages.
A bit more than I am willing to read for this story.
I've read other Heinlein books and enjoyed them so this isn't enough to deter me from reading other pieces of his work.
The characters are all paper thin without much development.The main character Sam is the biggest dick-head: he clearly has un-resolved father issues that fuel his distrust and dislike of women.
This aspect of the book alone made me really dislike it.At one point Sam sees Mary doing something that he judges to be wicked-in-the-way-that-only-women-can-be-wicked.
AT WHICH POINT MARY APOLOGIZES FOR SAMS MISINTERPRETATION saying "yeah I would have slapped me too if I were in your place".
><?!The amount of casual sexism, violence against women, and lack of ethics in the treatment of animals (Sam burns a dog because he is angry), made this book a tough read.
Throw in some deep meditations on the nature of conscience and individual liberty, just enough to add some heft, and you've got a pretty great little novel.It does have some standard disturbing Heinleinisms, like Sam's weird relationship with his wife, and Heinlein's idea of portraying strong women in general.
There's some weird tension between Heinlein's alleged support for individual liberty and distrust of the state within the novel, and the fact that the situation in the novel presents a problem which can only reasonably solved by massive draconian government intervention, which the main character carries out more or less cheerfully.
An invasion of Earth via means of 'slugs' which attach themselves to people and control their actions.
The story is told from the viewpoint of an elite government agent looking back on the situation as it was discovered.Lacking the sensawunda of his juveniles, or any particularly interesting speculative idea, this is a fairly rote alien invasion.
Sigh.The story follows a fairly common route for alien invasion stories - the population is near overwhelmed, then find a way to fight back.
It had its entertaining aspects, but isn't really that memorable.Like most of Heinlein's books, it's difficult to be female and focus on the story.
I reviewed and rated the print version of this book earlier.
Recently I got this "Playaway" version from the library and I am doing a separate review as....the reader really pulls the rating down.
He paused almost between each sentence and between paragraphs he'd pause 3 or 4 seconds...drove me crazy.*** Some discussion of story line below, may have spoilers ***This book was written in 1951 but takes place about "now", this date, in story time.
It's very interesting to see what Heinlein imagined and what he didn't.
I can't agree with all Heinlein's views, but it's still interesting and thought provoking.
In this book we now have flying cars that can also run on the ground, colonies on the moon and Mars, and watches on our fingers.
(I guess three seemed enough to cover the whole world.
The story is about who was in those flying saucers that were surveying us in the 1950s.
It takes the whole book to discover a way to get rid of them, and even then the book ends with a space colony going their home planet Titan, the moon of Saturn, to destroy them all.
Zumindest in der deutschen Übersetzung liest sich dieser typische 50er Alien-Invasion-Paranoia-SF-Roman so eigenwillig, dass ich von der Handlung oft regelrecht abgelenkt wurde und mehrfach das Buch zuklappte.
Hinzu kommen Sprünge und ein höchst eigenwilliger Erzählrhythmus; manche Merkwürdigkeit stellt sich allerdings zu einem späteren Zeitpunkt als gewollt heraus, so die überstürzte Ehe zwischen Sam und Mary.
Jedenfalls sind Sam und Mary keine Geschwister, auch wenn sie sich zu Beginn zwecks Tarnung als solche ausgeben.Mein Eindruck ist, dass dieser Roman in jedem Fall im Original gelesen werden sollte, weil letztlich nur dann zu beurteilen ist, welche Eigenheiten der Übersetzung geschuldet sind und welche Heinlein beabsichtigt hat.
Because, honestly, I probably am one of the people the Puppies would hate, and when books bother me, on a personal and political level, with how they handle, in this case, gender, I'll talk about it.
On the other hand, I'm also not a fan of throwing out an entire era of literature and science fiction because people didn't handle writing women well.
It depends on how bad it is, and how good the rest of the book is.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
At heart a diatribe against totalitarianism, it uses the cover of an alien invasion to outline the difficulties of maintaining freedom in the face of an enemy determined to eradicate individual freedom.
Although he gets the details wrong, Heinlein is spot on when it comes to the power of media to influence our thinking.
I saw it on TV," is a threat to our individual freedom.
I read and reread Heinlein because he holds out the hope that free people will win in the end against groupthink, against the dictators, no matter how efficient.
It will be a struggle, but freedom wins in the end.
Robert Heinlein writes an excellent sci fi story, but also just a darn good page turner. The movie wasn't a classic, but my daughter and I still enjoy watching. The book is great, with gritty secret agent battling invading aliens and protecting his family. Great.
It took me a little while to get into this book, but by the end I was glad I read it and had some appreciation for it. Not bad for 1951, and the knowing the culture and world events at that time make the book very appropriate for the age.
I have neither the time, energy nor patience to catalog everything that is wrong about the book from my current perspective.
The rampant sometimes almost virulent misogyny, the corny banter between the male and female protagonists or the quaint notions of science (I mean, everybody knows Venusians don't estivate!) are too patent for comment.
However, I still can see where my adolescent self would have found this book entertaining.
I can also see in this book the genesis of some modern science fiction/horror stories such as Alien.
My fondest wish for this book is that John Scalzi rewrites it !
En el libro Amos de títeres (publicación original: The Puppet Masters, 1951) nos trasladamos a un supuesto 2007 en el que, y tras una guerra nuclear limitada, tiene lugar una nueva Guerra Fría.
Cuando otros tres son enviados, incluyendo al líder de un grupo muy exclusivo y totalmente desconocido para el gran público, descubren que unas criaturas alienígenas procedentes de una de las lunas de Saturno se están uniendo a seres humanos en la parte de la espalda entre los omóplatos y, además de controlar a las personas, están empezando a controlar el territorio alrededor de la zona de aterrizaje.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
Babosas extraterrestres invaden la tierra procedentes de Titán. Se agarran a un huésped humano y controlan su comportamiento. La única manera de ralentizar su propagación es obligar a todos que vayan desnudos para ver quién tiene un extraterrestre agarrado al cuerpo o no. Es una novela ligera y se lee rápido.
