https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/100464.Dragon_Rider
Classic Coming of Age Story--Minus the love triangles, savior complexes, and completely stupid decisions that plague many of the YA fiction I've readThe Dragons of this world are scattered.
No one thinks he can, no one thinks he will ever come back.Firedrake meets with an orphan boy (Ben) (of course, there has to be an orphan) and once they pick up the homunculus, the quartet is complete.
The way he got into character - from the lisping Twigleg to the accented Brownie, I absolutely was riveted to this audiobook.(this man knows how to read a book)Blog | Instagram | Twitter
It's a great epic adventure novel for younger readers.
It's very different than Harry Potter, but I think it would appeal to the same types of readers.HERE BE DRAGONS!
Even better: friendly dragons, that you can ride on.
But the dragons are dying out as their habitat is taken over by humans.
My kids who love fantasy novels LOVED this book.
I read it too, and found it very good reading for a YA fantasy/adventure.
If you have kids (or nephews or nieces or grandkids or students) in the 7-14 age range who like fantasy, this is a great book that's not very well known.
Dragon Rider was published in 2004.
در جلد نخست این رمان، در پی خبر حمله ­ی آدم­ها به دره­ ی اژدها، «مرغ آتش» و دوست پریزادش «سورل» تصمیم می­گیرند به دنبال لبه­ ی بهشت بگردند، سرزمینی که می­دانند برای همیشه در آن صلح و آرامش برقرار است، اما ساکنان دره میکوشند آنها را از این سفر بی ­بازگشت منصرف کنند.
پروفسور از «بن» می­خواهد که هرچه زودتر «مرغ آتش» و «سورل» را نزد او بیاود، اما اتفاق نگران کننده­ ای می­افتد چون مرغ آتشین مزاج از خیلی چیزها خبر دارد و این اصلاً خوب نیست.
I tried very hard to get into this book, but like Ink Heart it just didn't catch me.
Something about the way Funke writes puts a distance between me and the story that just makes it impossible for me become fully engaged.
Her characters feel 2D, lacking real depth and anything to set them apart.
I made it over a third of the way through before finally setting this one aside.
I just can't make myself finish the book because I really don't care about any of the characters or the ultimate outcome.
There's no mystery to capture me, no question that doesn't have an obvious answer and outcome.
The premise of the book is that the lair of a group of dragons is threatened and one of their own - Firedrake - is the only one willing and able to set out and explore the scary world to find a better place for his clan to live: a mysterious place called the Rim of Heaven.Like many such books when the protagonist steps beyond the sheltered confines of his/her character-incubator world, they quickly learn just how hard real life is.
This book is a fun read as long as you don't take it too seriously and the 400+ pages fly by as you get engrossed in the story.
This book is very well written is one of my favorite books written Cornelia Funke. My favorite thing about this book is that it actually feels like you are in the story and one of the many companions.This book is about a dragon and a brownie (a lager squirle like creature) who set out to find a place where the other dragons can hide. This book rises and falls so many times you can't even tell where the rising and the falling actionis. Also, my favorite thing about this book is that it is about dragons.Day finished December 4,2007
This was a middle grade book that featured talking dragons and other assorted mythical creatures.
What really made this book special was the element of friendship that is very present throughout the whole story.
It was at times a bit cliche but not really in a bad way, if you know what I mean.
It's predictable but in a comfortable way - like when you go home to relax and put on your favorite movie that you've already seen 50 times.
I wanted to fly with dragons too.
If you're a fan of middle grade fantasy, I think that you would really enjoy this story.
Firedrake is a dragon with silvery scales that glint in the moonlight.
Dragon Rider is a charming tale that's sure to stir the imagination of young minds.
Dialogue suffers from an excessive use of exclamation points.
I expect you know the rule: One fabulous creature attracts another, correct?" Finally, there's prophesy of a chosen one: (view spoiler)["the dragon rider will return in the shape of a boy with skin as pale as the full moon." It's unfortunate the prophecy is so exclusive.
(hide spoiler)]There's no reason to let the technicalities stand in the way of picking up this book.
I think it's important to note that I listened to the audio version of this book because it is, without a doubt, the reason I disliked it so much.
When the text does note coughing, etc.
Every piece of dialogue is overacted and extravagant for no reason.My guess is that Fraser doesn't actually enjoy reading, and so he feels the need to "spice up" the book in order to make it entertaining.
If you are interested in this book, please don't listen to the audio version.
I know that for other people, especially the audience it's actually intended for (children/YA), it would be a great book, and they'd love it.
One of the problems was that I read books (and watch tv and movies) for the characters.
I found a lack of emotional intensity between the characters in this book.
of dragons that Firedrake currently lives with are about to be washed out by humans who want to flood their valley), safely under the radar of humans.
Very sweet book. I'm a sucker for stories about dragons and little creatures. My favorite characters Sorrel the brownie and Lola Greytail, the spunky rat who had her own little plane. Okay, I love Twigleg the homunculus, too. Just too darn cute!If you want to read this, LISTEN TO THE AUDIOBOOK! Brendan Fraser does the narration. His voices for the characters are THE. BEST. He does all different accents and sound effects; the characters just come alive off the page. It was probably one of the best audiobooks I've listened to.
עתה, אלפי שנים אחרי, האנשים מגיעים לעמק הדרקונים ולונג יוצא לחפש את פאתיי שמיים שהדרך אליה אבדה ברבות השנים.
אליו מצטרפים שדונית עצבנית בשם פרוות גופרית, נער יתום בשם בן ואיש קטן דמוי אדם בשם רגל זבוב, שהיה משרתו של שריפת סירפדים והצליח לברוח ממנו לאחר 300 שנות ציחצוח קשקשים.בדרך לפאתיי שמים היצורים עוברים הרפתקאות מסקרנות ומתמודדים עם קשיים, במיוחד הקושי של הדרקון לעוף כשאין אור ירח.
נסיונותיו של שריפת סירפדים לתפוס אותם ולהגיע לפאתיי שמים משעשעים ומגוחכים והמכות שהוא סופג מהחבורה, במיוחד מהחולדה לולה שמצטרפת אליהם בשליש האחרון של המסע, גרמו לי כל פעם לחשוב, הולה!!
I like this book because I like Cornelia funke and because I like fantasie.I think ths book is btter
My Video Review:https://youtu.be/M-ThaE6ZqgI
So, cool.The story is a journey/quest involving a few humans and a few magical creatures.
The characters are often immature and bicker in a way that young kids love, though adults may find it annoying.
The story is perfect for ages 8-10.
As an adult I was a bit bored.
It’s also way too long for most 8-year-olds at over 500 pages.Brendan Fraser is a remarkable narrator; he does a whole range of completely different voices amazingly.
He sounds like he’s reading a bedtime story.
He includes the whole range of sounds (giggling, sneezing, chewing, etc.), which may put off some listeners.
I read this ages ago and loved it, and then recently listened to it with my kids. The narration is by Brendan Fraser and is awesome! I don't know if Cornelia Funke picked him to be Inkheart before or after he had narrated this book, but I can see why she did. He's amazing. Oh yeah, the story is good too. :) It's a nice journey, with fun characters and a bit of mystery and suspense. Great for kids in the 6-8 range, whereas the Inkheart books are really for a slightly older crowd.
This book is hysterical! If you are going to read it, get it on CD narrated by Brenden Fraser (I think that's how you spell his name). He does all the noises and sound effects and I guarentee you will have at least a few good laughs. If you don't... well... then you don't.
Ich habe den Jungs vor der langen Autofahrt E-Book + Hörbuch gekauft. ... beste Investition!!! 10 Stunden Autofahrt ohne Beschwerden, sie saßen nur hinten mit ihren Kopfhörer und es herrschte himmlische Ruhe. ..Da musste ich dann auch herausfinden, was es damit auf sich hat - gute, spannende Geschichte, liebevoll erzählt, nicht so aufregend, dass sie nicht mehr schlafen können, aber so, dass sie gar nicht mehr damit aufhören konnten. und wie gesagt: durchaus auch nett zu lesen für Erwachsene
This is always such a lovely read - and Anthea Bell's translations are sublime.
Not a bad young adult fantasy, a little dull at times but overall still a really good story full of wit and imagination.
amazing, funny, mysterious, suspence-filled- in short, everything that a good book should be. i stayed up all night to read this book. a real page turner.
Cornelia Funke puts the reader into the story and tells it on the back of a dragon named Firedrake with passengers named Ben, and Sorrel, and Twigleg.
This story reminds me of a childhood movie called, '' The Never ending Story'', and is just a good old fashioned story-telling, that brings together a cast of elves,brownies,a thousand eyed djinn, a professor,and a basilisk, and many more.
Funke's message to the reader is that good always overpowers evil.
I would recommend this book not only to kids but anyone who wants to enjoy an easy-flowing story.
First of all, this is a children book, and I mean it, so when reading it, you can't let the adult yo
واقعا واقعا میگم عاشق این کتاب شدم! و واقعا پنج تا ستاره حقشه! شاید اگه در مقایسه با کتابای دیگه 4 تا ستاره بگیره ولی من کتابو با خودش مقایسه میکنم. واقعا الان فکر میکنم که در طول این سفر، همراه مرغ آتش، سورل، بن و بقیه بودم. و از اونجایی که من ترجمه رو خوندم باید بگم ترجمه واقعا عالی بود. واقعا عالی. دست آقای مهرداد مهدویان درد نکنه!تنها چیزی که برام عجیب بود این بود که چطوری آدما حرفای این موجودات افسانه ای رو میفهمیدن؟!
Human beings, fabulous creatures, myth and fairy tale, reality, legends coming true---this is what you get when you take a dragon in search of a new, yet ancient, home and boy who never had home or family, pair them up with a forest brownie and send then in search of the Rim of Heaven.I have to say, for all the fantasy I've read, I ran across some creatures here that I didn't recall having heard of.
Also a Cornelia Funke tale worth the reading.
হযারি পটার ছাড়া যে ফযানটাসি বই আমি কয়েকশ বার পড়েছি সেটা হল ডরাগন রাইডার। আমি বইটা যখন কিনি তখন করনেলিয়া ফুংকে নামটা বাপের জনমে ও শুনি নি। কিনতু কভারের ডরাগনটারে দেখে এই বই না কিনে পারি নি। মানুষেরা ভাবে মিথলজিকযাল পরানী বলতে কিছুই নাই - আরে পুরা ভুল ধারনা। মিথলজিকযাল পরানীরা কি এতই বোকা মানুষের সামনে আসবে। সমসযা একটাই মানুষের দিন দিন আগরাসনে ডরাগন সহ অনয মিথলজিকযাল পরানীদের থাকার জায়গা আসতে আসতে কমে আসছে। মহা বিপদে আছে ডরাগনরা। একদিকে মানুষ অনযদিকে ডরাগন খেকো দযা গোলডেন ওয়ান। এই ২দলের হাত থেকে ব
হ্যারি পটার ছাড়া যে ফ্যান্টাসি বই আমি কয়েকশ বার পড়েছি সেটা হল ড্রাগন রাইডার। আমি বইটা যখন কিনি তখন ক
My family was probably wondering why I kept bursting out laughing seemingly at nothing, since they couldn't hear what I was listening to on my iPod. It also looks at the issue of racism (such as not all humans are bad even though it's humans who are causing the dragons to need a new home) without making it seem out of place in a funny book.Oh, and I'm also now a fan of Brendan Fraser.Fraser has so many different voices for the characters in his book, and each one is fantastic.
I look forward to listening to more audio books he narrates in the future.This is really, really, cool.
It sucks like Nabeel's face.
What a wonderful way to "read" this novel! Brendan Fraser is a reader with entertaining voices for each of the characters which really helped with following along on this fun adventure.
The listening library version of this is amazing! Brendan Fraser is the reader, and I never would have guessed that he could be as engaging with character voices as he was.
