https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8765.I_Feel_Bad_about_My_Neck
Sometimes it takes a friend to get you to read a book.
I Feel Bad About My Neck has been on my physical bookshelves for years.
Never having read any of her other books I certainly am familiar with her films, When Harry Met Sally, Sleepless in Seattle,, and You’ve Got Mail.
Though I don’t feel bad about my neck anymore many other things have taken its place.
I Feel Bad About My Neck lightened my mood and reminded me how great it is to be a woman, turtleneck and all.
A special voice is gone as Nora Ephron passed away in 2012 but her talent lives on.
Despite the clever and sometimes funny observations about aging, I couldn't shake the feeling that this book of essays was...trivial.
Except for the final chapter (Considering the Alternative), Ephron spends a lot of time writing about superficial aspects of growing older (the skin on her neck, her disorganized purse, her worsening eyesight) that make her seem shallow and self-absorbed.
I think I expected her to be embarrassed by the time and money she spends "on maintenance."
I listened to the audio book on CD, which is read by the author.
She describes all the "maintenance" older women do to keep up their appearances at great length and talks about these things as if they are mandatory, when in fact, they are not.
For instance, she talks about the agony of sitting at the beauty parlor all day to get her hair colored and how she spends more money on it each year than her first car cost.
She describes the raptures of getting engrossed in a great novel in a way that I (or you, I bet) could totally relate to.
I grabbed this book off the shelf in the library and sat behind my son as he played some cartoony anatomy game wherein he places organs in the correct spot on a very happy looking skeleton (even though I have noted several key organs are simply not there...but I digress.).
This collection of essays includes some that are very funny and some that are less so but I had several laugh out loud moments in the few hours it took to read this book.
There were some seriously funny comments and that is about all I was looking for.
Not all of her essays were on aging, nor could I relate to them all, but I loved every single one of them, because her candid telling and dry sense of humor made them enjoyable.
I loved her essay on “Rapture”, describing how the books she loved transported her to another world.
I could so relate, even to some of the books and authors she loved.
I felt a sense of melancholy many times, especialy the way she talked about her life and her age, and it made me sad that she died.
This was such a charming book. Aging is clearly very fraught and the sharp wit of the essays in this book is quite wonderful.
Sitting in a movie theater back in the eighties, not my eighties -- the 1980s, I am smiling, laughing, just having a good ol' time when suddenly TERMS OF ENDEARMENT goes from funny to ominous to dark as turds that can signal upper g.i. bleeding.
But I reach the essay "The Story of My Life in 3,500 Words or Less," and I find material so closely related to remarks I made just hours ago that -- surprise -- I'm liking this book again.
Then with only a few stops left before this train reaches "the end of the line," I smell a "terms-of-endearment" experience on the tracks.
I also don't care that much about make up or matching handbags or wrinkles.
I JUST REALLY DON'T CARE.
#shootin'atstarsrevised rating - another starI think I must have been in an exceedingly bad mood when I read this first time.
I read it again yesterday and found much more in it.
I tell her what my husband has done to me.
I tell her my heart is broken.
I tell her I'm a total mess and I will never be the same.

Nora Ephron is, hands-down, one of the funniest women in America.
That's why I was a bit disappointed by this collection of essays, loosely tied around the topic of aging.
The essays on aging were amusing, but not particularly funny or fresh.
It was like eating a day-old doughnut -- still tasty, but probably not worth all the calories.
The weird thing -- her non-age-related essays were brilliant.
I almost felt like her agent or publisher told her she needed to write about getting old, so she did lip service to the topic but snuck in "other stuff" that in actuality is the best part of the book.
If you're an Ephron fan, check it out.
In her heyday Ephron wrote the screenplays for some very popular movies including 'Julie and Julia', 'You've Got Mail', 'Sleepless in Seattle', 'When Harry Met Sally', and 'Silkwood.' This audiobook - read by the author - contains a collection of humorous essays written when Ephron was 60 years old...and stopped having birthdays.
In another entertaining story Ephron speaks about her dismay when cabbage strudel disappeared from Manhattan restaurants and bakeries.
The essays are aimed at metropolitan 'women of a certain age', but many people would probably enjoy the book.
So I bought this book thinking it was going to be full of humor about what happens to women when they reach that "certain age".
I was expecting to relate to and be amused by her musings about getting older.
And that did happen...
certain chapters really made me smile, and I could relate to more than I would like to admit!
That obviously doesn't describe me, so even though her writing was engaging, I'm not quite sure why she put it in this particular book.
I did however, love her chapter on the "rapture" she feels with a good book.
For most of you who are my Goodreads friends, you will be too young to really appreciate the humor in this book -- after all, you still have firm, unwrinkled necks which you have probably never even given a single thought.
And then, you should run right out and find a copy of this book.
(Perhaps you can find one cheap in the garage sales that members of my generation will be having as we downsize into assisted living apartments!) Anyway, when it comes to the realities of middle-age, it's always better to laugh than to cry, and this book will make you LOL.
Do I seem younger now?)
I mean she did accuse me of purposely putting pins in her bed when she stayed the night and got poked a few times with left over remnants of my latest creative pursuits, and we weren't exactly the lets-get-a-manicure-together type but she did tell me she loved me once (which caught me so off guard that all I could muster in my shocked state was an awkward, "thank you").Sooooooo, I saw this book on audio, new she had a long drive home on Christmas, vaguely recognized the name Nora Ephron (honestly I think I kind of sort of confused her with Erma Bombeck), read that is was supposed to be funny and grabbed it.
And in this book, Nora Ephron has decided to tackle some of the more obvious annoyances of aging.
I have to say that when I first started this book, I thought, "Wow, she REALLY doesn't like herself!" But as the narrative continued, I realized that Ephron simply addressed the issues that all women grapple with as they are aging.
And she does it in a highly humorous way.The audiobook was great!
I'm sure the print version was entertaining as well, but I highly doubt that it captured Ephron's wry humour and sarcasm so well.
Only the audiobook could aptly epitomize those qualities.
I love Nora Ephron and wish that she was still alive so that I could continue to enjoy her witty and funny style of writing. Funny is something that I seem to crave these days. This is only her second book that I’ve read. It’s a quick read and a particularly enjoyable one. Every parent should read her chapter “Parent in Three Stages”. I desperately needed that!
Ephron is better known as a screen writer, in particular for When Harry Met Sally and Sleepless in Seattle, films with some very funny moments and strong observations about the human psyche and relationships.
It is a collection of articles and essays with titles such as I Hate My Handbag and What I Wish I'd Known as well as other things that affect a aging Manhattenite.It is written as a fairly honest account of her life, but whilst it is honest, it is also a bit dull.
But my main flaw with it is that for a supposedly funny book, I didn’t laugh once.
It won't change your life, but it is quite a treat for a sunny afternoon. I read most of it lying in the sunshine on my bed shortly after lunch on a Saturday.Ephron, like Sedaris & Degeneres, has a gift for expressing mundane thoughts in the most delightful phrases. The one that's in my head right now is when she describes loving cabbage strudel in the 1960s: "I don't want to get too sentimental, but it's practically the only thing I remember about my first marriage." You'll be chuckling the whole way through, with the occasional howl or two.
Add in the fact that she shares her wisdom freely, and also in a funny way, and it makes her even better.I could have written her exact words on reading..."Reading is everything.
Reading makes me feel I've accomplished something, learned something, become a better person.
And of course, I live in my kitchen."And following each of those statements is a string of perfect explanations.And I'll also steal her "What I Wish I'd Known."My favorites of hers are:"You never know.""Whenever someone says, 'Our friendship is more important than this,' watch out, because it almost never is.""There's no point in making pie crust from scratch.""There are no secrets." (Paying attention to that John Edwards?)But my very favorite part of this book also appeared in Oprah Magazine's Aha Moment series.
I have to say I'm a little baffled by Nora Ephron.
She's been married three times.
And when he had an affair it wasn't just with any old woman, but with the wife of the British ambassador to the United States.
Impressive for any woman of any era, but harder for her certainly, in those times.
Ephron has a dry wit that I find quite pleasing.
"I Hate my Purse." "I Feel Bad about my Neck." Gah!
I mean, this woman should have some shit to say!
Too bad she didn't say any of it.
FunnyIntimate Entertaining Loved it The life of a woman in NYC
I think younger women will not enjoy this book as much and it has nothing to do with much of the subject matter being aging.
The problem is that Ephron is of a particular feminist generation that enjoys very much saying that choices other women have made are bad choices.
There is also just a lot of privilege here, Ephron has certainly had her ups and downs but generally lives a charmed life, but still talks about herself as though she is just a regular person rather than a very rich person who writes movies.
She does a better job than any writer I've read of capturing the characters, changes and charm of the city, and the magical thinking of its residents."New York is a very livable city.
Here too she comes away with a great one-line truth:"Anything you think is wrong with your body at the age of thirty-five you will be nostalgic for at the age of forty-five."I wish I'd read this book years ago so I could have tried to run into her on the street in the city, perhaps while getting a cabbage strudel at Andre's on the Upper East Side.
I'd never read anything by Nora Ephron before this, but I can say this will not be my last.Ephron tackles some of the more uncomfortable topics that plague aging women but does them with such sass and spunk that I couldn't help but laugh out loud on several occasions.
I loved one essay that talked about the painfulness of your body hair removal regimen but reminded me how it wasn't quite as painful as childbirth, on more than several occasions, even though I have no experience in that area.
This was a fun and educational set of essays that I could easily see myself passing on to other women in my life whom I know would appreciate them.
She begins with a long discourse on the pain-in-the-neck-ness of having to dye her hair to illiminate gray (I am at least 10% gray and not in the least bit upset or willing to do a thing about it), the ins and outs of purchasing expensive handbags (never, ever crossed my mind), getting weekly manicures (the last manicure I got was paid for by my mother on the morning of my wedding), and the like.
She was witty and charming, and her humor was nice and dry, just the way I like it.
“Reading is everything. Reading makes me feel like I've accomplished something, learned something, become a better person. Reading makes me smarter.” This was a fun essay collection. I listened to the audio, narrated by Ephron, and very much liked her delivery and dry sense of humor. PS. This is where I admit I didn’t realize she was such a prolific screenplay writer. I mean, I obviously know the films, I just didn’t know she wrote them.
Well, except now I've started paying more attention to my neck because maybe these last few years or months of preventative measures will make a difference."Consider the Alternative" was hard to listen to.
I liked this book.P.S.I do not recommend following this with Sister Mother Husband Dog: Etc..
It's been hard to go from Nora talking about death, losing her BFF and wondering who was next - and now I know she knew she was sick when she wrote that - to Delia talking about how her sister's death impacted her, both during and after and still, I am sure.
Reading makes me feel I’ve accomplished something, learned something, become a better person.
Reading makes me smarter.
Ephron names The Woman in White “the most rapture-inducing book of my adult life,” one that kept her embarrassingly preoccupied on a film set.
Luckily, the experience is repeatable: “the state of rapture I experience when I read a wonderful book is one of the main reasons I read, but it doesn’t happen every time or even every other time, and when it does happen, I’m truly beside myself.” (You can read the whole essay on Oprah’s website.)
I have a love-hate relationship with Nora Ephron.
Sometimes I actually get what she's saying.Other times I think, can you hear yourself?
Is that really what you think?
She had a privileged upbringing and career that has pretty much kept her safely separated from how people making less than $30,000 a year live.
Here she describes the pursuit of a grossly expensive handbag, something called eyebrow weaving, an apartment building she used to live in where the rent per month was more than I make in a year, and - of course - necks revealing age as surely as the rings in the stump of a tree.Perhaps it's me.
Instead, I love/hate them.
Though humorously self-deprecating and poignant, critics agree that the essays, some published previously,are uneven.
Readers may love "I Hate My Purse"__unless they find it outdated.
Other essays came off as vain, stale, or elitist in their carefree attitude toward luxury items.
Despite the collection's lightweight feel, Ephron still writes "like someone who has something useful and important to tell her readers" (Los Angeles Times).
"When your children are teenagers," for example, "it's important to have a dog so that someone in the house is happy to see you."This is an excerpt from a review published in Bookmarks magazine.
