https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/279718.Overture_to_Death
"It's like one of those affairs in books," said Bailey disgustedly."Someone trying to think up a new way to do a murder. Silly, I call it.""What do you say, Roper?" said Alleyn."To my way of thinking, sir," said Sergeant Roper, "these thrillers are ruining our criminal classes." The humour in this novel (Miss Marsh's 8th Alleyn title) is its saving grace. That and some excellent dialogue. This book has a slow (and quite dull) start, Nigel Bathgate (the world's most annoying Watson) and (view sp
"It's like one of those affairs in books," said Bailey disgustedly."Someone trying to think up a new way to do a murder.
Silly, I call it.""What do you say, Roper?" said Alleyn."To my way of thinking, sir," said Sergeant Roper, "these thrillers are ruining our criminal classes."
This book has a slow (and quite dull) start, Nigel Bathgate (the world's most annoying Watson) and (view spoiler)[ Marsh is determined to shoehorn Troy into the plot - even when she doesn't appear.
(hide spoiler)]This is a Marsh I haven't read before and I'm quite sure I won't read again.
Our cast include the local Squire, Jocelyn Journingham, his cousin, Eleanor, his son, Henry, who is in love with the Rector’s daughter, Dinah, her father, Rector Copeland – a man adored by the two local, gossipy spinsters, Cousin Eleanor and Idris Campanula, the local doctor, Dr Template, whose wife is an invalid and the attractive widow, Mrs Celia Ross, who is rumoured to be having affair with the doctor.
Jealousy, greed, love and fear are all involved in this crime, which results in Idris Campanula being shot dead by an ingenious method, which could be found only in Golden Age mysteries.
I have developed a theory regarding the appeal of these "golden age" British mysteries: every character is so poisonous and hateful that one is freed from any concern for their fates or sadness about the fictional death and suffering. This installment is set just before Alleyn's marriage, but sadly Troy does not feature.
This book was published in 1939 and it shows. The plot involves the murder of an unpopular but rich middle-aged spinster and a cast of very unlikeable suspects indeed. Ngaio Marsh, despite being a spinster herself, is very keen to push all the stereotypes of the time surrounding unmarried women of a certain age. They are narrow-minded, hysterical, sexually repressed, bitter harpies. It is a constant in the story and one which left a very unsavoury taste in my mouth. I think it is my least favourite of the Roderick Alleyn series.
It doesn’t really sparkle, though; I felt that the culprit was made obvious by their behaviour, and not just because they acted guilty — also because they had that whole cliché Freudian repressed sexuality going on, which seems to crop up in crime fiction of that period far too much.
Gaudy Night is another example, though it does sparkle, because of the character development that’s going on too.
It gets a bit repetitive, and does that irritating holding-back-of-details that means you can’t solve the crime for yourself (or, in this case, be sure about it), but as a murder mystery it’s alright.
I'm quite sure I'd never come across a deadly piano before I read this one the first time (long ago and far way from our local library).The stars of Marsh's show are Miss Campanula and her bosom friend Miss Eleanor Prentice, two embittered old maids who like nothing more than to spread dreadful rumors about their neighbors and then confess their sins to the handsome rector.
When Inspector Roderick Alleyn arrives on the scene to decide who gave Miss Campanula such a dramatic death scene, he finds that he must first discover if the murderer has cast the right woman as victim.
Two middle-aged spinsters, Idris Campanula and Eleanor Prentice, embody the modern term “frienemies,” heads always together in gossip against the rest of the world, but backbiting at each other in private and fighting over the affections of the widowed Rector Copeland.
Eleanor Prentice lives with her brother-in-law, the someone dense Squire Jocelyn Journingham, and his son, Henry, who is in love with Dinah Copeland, daughter of the rector and a young lady trying to make her way on the London stage.
I do love the Roderick Alleyn mysteries.
The mysteries are always interesting.
In this story, an unpopular woman is murdered in a most interesting way.
I also like how Marsh develops the story, leading up the murder before even bringing Alleyn into the picture, about half way through the story.
There is nice humour, there are lovely touches (I'm thinking of late in the story when Alleyn writes a letter to his beloved, Troy.
The whole story is a joy to read and hard to put down.
Excellent series and excellent story.
Wanda McCaddon (who also narrates under the names Donada Peters and Nadia May) was perfect for this Golden Age mystery.August 2017: Very enjoyable even knowing the solution. I could appreciate how well Marsh gives the reader a the clues without making it obvious.
After all, until mere minutes before, Miss Campanula's bosom friend and bitter rival, Miss Prentice, was the designated pianist; it was only thanks to the influence of the vicar that Miss Prentice abruptly conceded the honor because of a septic finger.Enter Chief Inspector Roderick Alleyn and his trusty sidekick, Inspector Fox, drafted in from the Yard because the local rozzers are tied up handling the latest exploit of a serial burglar gang.The cast of suspects seems easily whittlable down to the seven people involved in the presentation of the play -- eight, if you count Miss Campanula herself, who might feasibly have chosen to boobytrap her piano as a particularly macabre means of suicide.
At first I thought, oh yum, village theatricals!
Always a hotbed of discontent, of course you expect everyone to have their knives into everyone else, but shooting someone in the head is a little extreme!
Unfortunately, Marsh was soon riding her psychological hobbyhorse round and round, and trust me--the old grey mare just ain't what she used to be.
Christie, Sayers, Mitchell, and now Marsh, who goes so far as to repeatedly use the term "hysteria" in its Victorian sense.
Then there's the "man's woman", by which Marsh means the sultry temptress who chases anything in pants with her husky voice and seductive glances.
Well written, engaging, very detailed...but the pacing wasn't quite right. It seemed quite repetitive and longer than it needed to be. An enjoyable Golden Age mystery, but lacking that touch of magic that you get with Agatha Christie. Somehow not quite gripping enough.
Beware! Anti-spinster propaganda.
Those familiar with Ngaio Marsh and her Roderick Alleyn novels know that her writing style isn't the frenzied roller-coaster ride so popular today.
She takes her time letting you know her characters and slyly sending up the upper classes of her day.
However, in Overture to Death, four or five chapters slip by simply exploring the petty machinations of two village harpies: a pair of gossipy, spiteful, meddlesome spinsters without equal.
The endless focus of these parodies of the malicious spinster droned on so long that I nodded off several time.
Overture to Death has all what I look for in a Mystery novel: It is very atmospheric, very British, steeped in the time period it is set in, oh, and possibly a little stereotypical.
But still it made my eyes glaze over every time I read a couple of pages.
Marsh takes her time letting you know her characters and slyly pokes fun at the upper classes.
Nonetheless the group of people remain more stereotypical than realistic.
The method of the murder is a bit fantastic and, worse it was a bit too easy to figure out the culprit.On the bright side, Marsh's skillful writing style isn't the frenzied roller-coaster ride so popular today.
As the third one died away a shot rang out and a murder was committed in a sleepy English village where the inhabitants enjoyed their gossip and illicit love affairs.The local bobby was deemed incapable of solving the crime without the help of Chief Inspector Alleyn of Scotland Yard.
He duly arrives with his trusty assistants and Nigel Bathgate, his faithful Watson.He interviews all the suspects and, in turn, it appears as though each of them could just have committed the crime.
One of my favourite things about Marsh's book is that she spends quite a bit of time on the set up for the mystery-if you like action from the very beginning this book is not for you.
I love the fact that we see so much scene development and character development in a mystery.
For me, the scene and the atmosphere are as important as the mystery itself.
DO NOT read the chapter titles, unless you like spoilers.
If I had to pick my two favourite detectives ever, I would pick Poirot and Alleyn.
Alleyn is as enjoyable for me to read as Poirot.
Really 3.5 starsI've read a number in this series over the years and seen a number of the BBC, I guess, productions so this was a visit with old friends, Chief Insp.
Alleyn and Insp.
(Brer) Fox. All that you would expect from Marsh is in this book, great characters, plot twists and turns, some humorous bits - Pen Cuckoo as the name of a house - and a satisfactory wrap up.
This classic British mystery style continues today and I could see Chief Inspector Barnaby dealing with the same characters and crimes in Midsomer.
Solid, but not quite as engaging as #7 in the series, for example. Very unique manner of murder, but almost too tidy a set-up to be believable. Also too many unsympathetic characters, especially the malicious spinsters. I liked Henry, one of the suspects, but some of the others I felt like shaking.
Marsh manages to work the oddest things into a murder mystery. Okay, so the old lady only knew one song, but for the piano to shoot her? I like the workings of villages and the class system in Britain at that time. It's just an interesting slice of history/life and a mystery, too.
Good entry in the Inspector Alleyn series though I wish that Fox had a bigger role.
An amateur dramatic performance is being staged to raise money for a piano for the parish hall.
Two elderly spinsters, Miss Prentice and Miss Calendula, are vying for the right to play the Overture on the night of the performance.
When Miss Prentice has to withdraw, Miss Calendula takes over, only to be shot dead at the keyboard...Enjoyable mystery, where I found the characters more engaging than the rather silly plot.
Although they are stereotypes on the surface - the vicar, the spinsters, the squire, the femme fatale etc - they are also quite skilfully developed, and the relationships between them are intriguing and convincing.
Yet another solid mystery from Marsh. I attribute the improvements over the course of the series to the lack of contemporary slang (which was ever present in the earlier novels), and better character development. No more cookie cutter caricatures where you can't tell one guy from the next. The murder method is a bit outlandish, but I feel like there was a plausible explanation behind it. I'm definitely looking forward to the next book.
[Alleyn would return to the same neighborhood in a later novel, Death and the Dancing Footman.] It has many of Marsh’s stock characters: the doctor, a lovely young woman who features as the ingenue both in terms of the role she plays in the plot and the fact that she fancies herself an actress, her besotted lover whose family doesn’t think she’s good enough for him, a temptress in her thirties who is no better than she ought to be, the slightly ridiculous landed gentry, and country bumpkins galore.
But Marsh pokes fun at gentry and country alike; like Jane Austen, no one escapes her keen observation.
A stunningly intricate murder plot immersed in village life, two spinsters warring over a yummy clergyman, amateur theatricals, and an exploding piano make this a wonderful confection for classic mystery readers, and there’s just enough darkness mixed in to give it a nice edge.
Add in the incomparable Alleyn, and you have a wonderful read that isn’t as fluffy as it might seem on the surface.
My latest reread was of Blackstone Audio Books, read by Nadia May, and unfortunately her narration is at first rather annoying, a bit “too, too precious” and heavy-handed in her “cultured” accents.
Because the real problem is that there's a strong undercurrent of cruelty and maliciousness (coupled with a strong tendency to willfully ignore and downplay the same) in this tiny English village, that honestly twenty pages in I didn't care who was killed, or who did it, or why.
Everyone had motive to kill almost every other person, almost everyone was unpleasant.And I would argue this was a bad book for Troy to be off-page, and only referred to in letters.
I'm not saying she needs to be in every book (she doesn't), but given this one's place in the series, it's an odd choice.
A classic cozy British mystery from the 30's, and so a little dated, but not as much as might be.
The life and times of a small English village are described to a tea (at least the upper crust of said village), and the book in many ways makes one wish for simpler times and makes me wish a little that I lived in such a place.
This is a fairly light read, certainly not "deep", but makes a great book to read on a snowy day in front of the fire.
Marsh's mysteries are highly appealing in that they are complex, detailed puzzles. She puts all the information in front of the reader, while presenting appealing or revolting characters to entertain and possibly distract from untangling each mystery. I am often a lazy mystery reader, bobbing along on the surface and being surprised at the big "reveal", but I put part of this one together in advance (although not what happened with one of the side characters). As usual, well done. Some interesting 1939/1940-to-2011 differences, and yet so many similarities too.
One of the very best Alleyn mysteries. Which of the seven surviving members of the amateur dramatic cast murdered the eighth? A good cast of characters, well developed, a good exposition of rural Dorset and local society. And a nice problem for Alleyn to unravel, including a water pistol, a box, an onion!
The opening, before the murder, is a fantastic small town farce. I laughed out loud several times and wish it could have gone on in the style of Wodehouse without the crime. Marsh manages to write each nominal mystery novel in a different genre.
