https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1103562.A_Girl_in_Winter
The novel also presents a subtle, cautionary warning that this sense of isolation may not be confined to wartime, but may instead be part of the human condition, making it difficult to form true connections with others.England, 1940We first meet Katherine Lind in the second chapter, as she is working as a floater in an English library.
England, 1940In the first section of the novel, Katherine’s thoughts are torn among dissatisfaction with her wartime job, immediate complications related to her escorting home a colleague who is suffering from a toothache, and conflicted nostalgia spurred by her recently receiving a letter from the Fennels, the English family whom she had visited as a teenager.
Philip Larkin (1922-1985) foi um grande poeta inglês; trabalhou durante trinta anos na biblioteca de uma universidade, período em que produziu grande parte da sua obra.Uma Rapariga No Inverno é um dos seus dois únicos romances e conta a história de Katherine e dos dois momentos da sua vida passados em Inglaterra: numas férias quando adolescente e, anos depois, a trabalhar como bibliotecária.
Com ela se cruzam homens e mulheres, novos e velhos, pobres e ricos; todos tendo em comum uma grande solidão, que se transforma em desalento e tristeza quando a tentam romper procurando a companhia de quem está por ali...A história é vulgar mas a forma como Larkin a conta torna-a especialmente bonita.
Nervous, not only because of Larkin's reputation, but because of this:"This masterful novel by the great modern poet is the story of the development of a lonely, self-centered adolescent into a mature young woman and the man who helps her find the way."Now, that suggests all sorts of unsavory things!: that the protagonist is unlikeable throughout most of the book, that the omniscient narrator is judgmental for the entirety of the book, and that solitary women are portrayed as self-absorbed losers in need of a man's manly counsel.
Just a man, not The Man, but a person: subjective, highly sensitive...and good at what he did.
Me esperaba una historia de amor triste, pero me he encontrado con un libro lleno de vida.
Terriblemente bello, capaz de sumergirte en una atmósfera de ensoñación, de días luminosos y dorados de verano, y días fríos y blancos de invierno.
También me ha sorprendido que no sea una historia de amor al uso, con personajes misteriosos, carismáticos y irónicos, es hasta divertido.
Una joyita, muy agradable de leer, está escrito de una forma poética, que hace que leerlo sea un dulce para el alma (oh por favor).
Lo recomiendo mucho, un libro perfecto para estos días de invierno con un buen café calentito bien cargado.
http://bettie.booklikes.com/blog
It also captures the deep sense of loneliness and isolation that marks its central character, a woman named Katherine Lind.First published in 1947, A Girl in Winter represents my contribution to Karen and Simon’s 1947 Club which is running next week (my post is a little early as I’ll be offline during the event itself).
(The second part takes the form of an extended flashback which I’ll return to a little later.)The novel focuses on Katherine Lind, a twenty-two-year-old girl who is working as a temporary assistant in the town’s library.
Bought on a whim (the bookstore was closing down, it cost pennies). Didn't think I would actually enjoy it all that much -- but I did. It was beautifully written, impressionistic, evocative. The middle part, in particular, was a great read. I will probably re-read it in the future to experience it again.
From BBC Radio 4 - Classical Serial:In wintery wartime Britain, Katherine Lind, exiled and alone, endures her job as an assistant in an obscure provincial library with an unpleasant boss and unfriendly colleagues. Frozen in time and tragedy, her past is gone - and with it her family, her friends, her old life. She is living moment by moment. But on this cold, bleak Saturday, news from an English family she once knew forces her to relive the idyllic summer she spent with them six years before. Will Katherine's icy heart finally start to melt?
I had to stop myself from gobbling this book. I did not ever want it to end. Written by a poet with the talent to transport the reader into the atmosphere of his story. I believe I actually lived it--- he is so good. What pleasure.
This is one of the most perfect novels I have ever read--not a word or gesture or character out of place. It's one of the only novels I've read set in war time that doesn't sentimentalize or mythologize that state of siege. It is luminous, very funny and very sad and very brave.
No deja de ser una historia de esas que todos hemos vivido: sumergidos en la rutina de nuestras vidas, recordamos aquel amor pasado que quedó a medias con la esperanza de que nos salve de la monotonía.
Creo que lo que más me gustó del libro, es el final tan sencillo y real que tiene.
Es un libro simple en su historia y creo que ahí es donde reside su magia.
No sería uno de mis libros favoritos, pero está tan bien escrito que sin querer algo queda de él en tu cuando lo acabas y lo recuerdas con cariño.
I came to A Girl in Winter familiar with Larkin's poetry.
In the course of her trying day of bitter weather and unpleasant work situation at the library we're given a long flashback section in which she remembers her first visit to England as a student before the war.
What warmth they felt for each other during the pre-war summer isn't possible in the wartime winter.
Larkin's descriptions focus on the seaminess of their environment and the mindless, automatic reactions of people who can't love, not only Katherine and Robin but also those she works with in the library.
La mayor parte del libro es un flashback que describe las vacaciones a Inglaterra que hizo Katherine años atrás, cuando era una adolescente, invitada por un chico con el que se carteaba.Y eso es prácticamente todo.
Es sobre todo un estudio del carácter de los personajes, en el que vamos viendo cómo reaccionan en distintas situaciones.En definitiva, es un libro bueno.
Prefiero leer cómo los personajes viven situaciones límite antes que leer sobre la vida cotidiana.
"For the world seemed to have moved off a little, and to have lost its immediacy, as a bright pattern will fade in many washings.
It was like a painting of a winter landscape in neutral colours, or a nocturne in many greys of the riverside, yet not so beautiful as either.
Like a person who is beginning to go physically colour-blind she was disturbed.
The world that she had been so used to appraising, delighting in, and mixing with had drawn away, and she no longer felt she was part of it.
Una chica en invierno es una novela preciosa.
Se compone de muy pocos elementos, pero están tan bien medidos y estructurados que no hacen sino realzar la solidez del conjunto.
A través de una solitaria y refunfuñona refugiada europea que ejerce como bibliotecaria en un pueblo inglés durante la Segunda Guerra Mundial, Philip Larkin narra una hermosa historia sobre encuentros con el pasado, desarraigo y descubrimiento personal que trata de indagar en esa enorme brecha que a menudo separa nuestras intenciones de nuestros actos.
La trama, que a priori resulta de todo menos emocionante, consigue mantenerte atrapado en casi todo momento, pero es sin duda la profundidad y complejidad de sus personajes lo que hacen de Una chica en invierno una lectura tan recomendable.
**************************The first three paragraphs, as well as the last two paragraphs clearly intone our somber isolated world and its dilemmas.
These act as bookends for a work also structured as a core childhood memory encased by two renderings of a more "current" adult experience.This book is very well written; and it takes the reader through one of our most challenging and essential experiences, our ultimate loneliness and isolation from one another.The prose is beautiful.
So the reader's experience of these souls' lonely lives is intimate.
We know these people; and their life dilemmas are ours.
We care enough to share their experience.
This is a beautifullly written book, but also very sad.
The action takes place over the course of one day, with the middle section being a flashback to when the girl, Katherine, was sixteen and spending 3 weeks in England.
It's a book about emptiness, about loss -- mostly of hope, sadly -- and about being stuck in a cycle you feel you can never break, and simply being resigned to it.
It's worth a read for the lyrical language and some of the descriptions, but it is...so bleak, hopeless, and sad.
It is, without a doubt, about a girl in winter...but without any sign of spring.
Una lectura muy agradable para este tiempo de manta y sofá, para leer sin prisa y saboreándola.
It says:This story of Katherine Lind and Robin Fennel, of winter and summer, of war and peace, of exile and holidays.And that exactly what you get: the story of one winter day during which Katherine Lind reminiscences about the summer she spent with the Fennel family.Lots in this book is unfinished and only half said.
We never learn about Katherine's family nor her life in her own country.
But this time, despite all this irritating moments I really enjoyed this book.The language it's written with is beautiful, fluent and effortless.
It made me want to read Philip Larkin's poetry.A beautifully written book.
I fell in love over the 2 days that I read this book. The prose was like some mental lyrical massage, quite the most beautiful and yet profoundly sad book I have read yet. The description of the summer spent with robin's family filled my senses with the scent of hot languid english summers. I could hear the sound of willows by the thames, swishing in the humid air. Finishing this book left me bereft and empty. I am yet to recover from it so have moved on to Jill.
I was curious to see how dear old Pip would deal with the novel form, and he handles it admirably. The theme, as one might expect, is isolation: crushing isolation and pathetic, impossible dreams and the realisation that "though they might try sincerely", people can no more help each other and make contact "than people standing ten yards apart can take other other's hands". But it's all done so lightly and lyrically that it's an absorbing read.
One of my favorite books. Like The House in Paris, the current action takes place in one day, waiting, while the backstory happens in the middle. It could really be called A Girl in Summer, as the crux of the book happens one idyllic summer before WWII. I like to read this in the summer.
Robin was actually her adolescent pen pal and the middle section of the novel is an extended flashback to the summer that Katherine spent with Robin’s family when she was sixteen.
In contrast to the winter of the title, in this section Katherine experiences the summer beauty of rural Oxfordshire.
This sets in train a series of events on the winter Saturday on which the events of the first and last sections of the novel take place.
At times in the last section I thought he’d lost his way in the recesses of her complex mind but he always was able to suddenly make her thoughts and feelings clear to me again.
A book about unmet expectations.About finding things to do in life that matter/having a life that mattersReally interesting personality/character changesQuotes:- library assistants are forced to do everything to books except read them- All the week she had been waiting for Robin's letter.
So far it had not come, but the interval lulled her excitement into a powerful, delicious expectation, strong enough to carry her through the daily work that she normally found disagreeable.- Because Katherine was so young she hitherto thought love a pleasant thing- Whom did he write to?
And did she write nice letters back?
I love this book so much, and I didn't expect to.
To describe this book has less to do with the time period an more to do with the psyche of Katherine and human condition.
Some Goodreads comments made me realize there is a distinction in the novel, Katherine's youth in the summer and her older self in the winter.
I didn't find Katherine obnoxious or even "annoying" in fact I felt she served as a telling of the exceptions we may feel, of love, ourselves, other countries.
The time period (WWII) does play part though, less for Katherine and more for another character Robin.
"Because Katherine was so young she hitherto thought love a pleasant thing; a state that put order into her life, directing her thoughts and efforts towards one end, and because she found it pleasant she thought it could not be real love, which by all accounts caused suffering and was to be feared." p.172"But did she really care what she did in England?
There would be sleep, simply to freshen her again for work; there would be other Miss Greens, Miss Parburys, Mr. Ansteys; all this was inescapable and it did not matter if she accepted it or not.
It's about Katherine Lind, a 22-year-old girl from Europe (we're never told where) living in England during World War II, working in a library.
The whole story takes up one winter day early in the war, in the first and last sections, and three weeks during the summer six years before, when she visited England for the first time, to stay with her pen pal Robin and his very English family (parents, sister Jane).
The story is rather dark -- not that anything awful happens but not much happy occurs, either.
It's about Katherine Lind, a 22-year-old girl from Europe (we're never told where) living in England during World War II, working in a library.
The whole story takes up one winter day early in the war, in the first and last sections, and three weeks during the summer six years before, when she visited England for the first time, to stay with her pen pal Robin and his very English family (parents, sister Jane).
The story is rather dark -- not that anything awful happens but not much happy occurs, either.
Before he made his name as one of the great British poets of the twentieth century, Philip Larkin published two early novels.
A Girl in Winter was his second, first published in 1947, but set a few earlier during the long struggle of the Second World War. It's a bleak but beautifully observed story set (apart from a long central flashback) on a miserably cold winter day in a dreary provincial town.
What really sets it apart is Larkin's remarkable powers of perception and description: a foreshadowing of the major poet he was to become.
An excellent book, well constructed and beautifully written.
Many writers have criticized the main character, Katherine Lind, as being solipsistic and self-centered.Larkin only hints at Katherine’s background but a careful analysis of these hints led me to conclude that she is a Jewish refugee from Germany.
I don’t wonder at her self-concern.We must all regret that Larkin failed to complete the planned novel that would have finished the trilogy.I encourage you to read professional reviews of this minor masterpiece, especially that of Martin Amis in the New York Times.
They enhance the experience of this exceptional novel.
