https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107607.A_Guide_to_Elegance
Yes. I've got a bit of a fixation on being graceful and classic, and have very little interest in trends, so I'm already well-positioned to like the advice coming my way.
So that's why it's easy to skip over the 1963 bit about veils and stoles and instead focus on the advice about investment pieces, or the comments on gloves and makeup.
I'm taking D'ariaux's advice and scouring my closet straight down to the ground, and then I'm going to start looking for the perfect gored tweed skirt.

I have long been interested in the female equivalent of the "Art of Manliness" blog which my boyfriend reads quasi-religiously, and this provided some solid answers in that direction.
Many reviews I've seen complain about her advice being obscure or old-fashioned, but I found it charming.
As with anything, this book shouldn't be taken as a rote set of commands, but understood as insights into a particular frame of mind about the role of fashion and clothing (sadly lacking in America today): quality over quantity, simple and conservative, classic over trendy.
I just could not take this little book of fashion tips seriously not matter how hard I tried. I don't even know where to begin to quote funny sections because there are just too many. I will try and choose just three for a little tease.1) The Kennedy family had chic; but the Truman family didn't. 2) When you are very suntanned, it is better to avoid wearing black or navy.3) It is a good rule never to go shopping for clothes with a girlfriend since she is an unwitting rival.
Though much of the actual clothes advice is very much of its period (1964) and for a decidely affluent class; there are many absolute gems of timeless advice; such as "Even if you look like a goddess in a bathing suit, it is absolutely incorrect to wear it any place but on the beach" (p.14).This book acts as a stark reminder that so called 'fashion' today (in 2011) exists primarily to increase the wealth of the designer, fashion journalist, and retailer; and does very little (if anything) to enhance the beauty (elegance) of the wearer.It IS very useful to be shown/reminded how to create a 'capsule' wardrobe; detached from the whims of current 'fashion', from which any number of distinct variations can be achieved by the addition of well chosen accessories.Most of us do not change outfits seven(!) times a day.
I love this vintage gem!
Do you like/appreciate his work?
Then you should enjoy this book.
If not, move on.I also really enjoy her witty sense of humor.
She is someone I'd liked to have met.
(And, she would have found me to be completely unimpressive.)On a personal note, I found out about this book in a very unusual way (for me).
The chapter quotes in Kathleen Tessaro's Elegance were taken from this book.
I loved them so much, I sought out this book and found it well-worth the wait.Btw, "Elegance" is also a recommended read.
She is also perhaps similar to Bree Van De Kamp (Marcia Cross' character in "Desperate Housewives"): dressed to the nines, impeccably mannered, yet a little psychotic.I find myself consulting this book from time to time ahead of my shopping trip, not to follow the advice (I mean who can afford Chanel tweed spring Suit in this time and age?
Definitely not me) but to restrain myself from buying rubbish.Some advices, like the colour coordination, are quite useful if you have no clue on how to coordinate your office wardrobe.The book doesn't talk only about fashion but also etiquette and manners.Again, fun book.
How I love these Cold War-era guides to femininity.
This one, penned in 1964 by an intensely uptight French Couturier, is full of important advice.
Words of wisdom include which kinds of white gloves to wear to a daytime embassy reception and the different attire one wears to horse shows depending on what kinds of horses are being shown at what kind of show, along with "drop earrings are very dressy and should never be worn before 5 p.m. and never with a tailored hat" and "your various pieces of luggage are useful servants but they are very indiscreet ones, for they reveal your social situation even more then doesa your attire."
I normally enjoy these types of books...
I mean what woman wouldn't want to be more elegant and charming.
What really bothered me in this book was the chapter about dressing with handicaps.
According to the author, I have three of the four womanly handicaps: I'm short, I'm busty, and I have red hair and freckles.
I also did t like the fact that she considered a woman who is 5'3" weighing 125lbs to be "plump." So at 5"1', 130lbs, with an E cup and red hair, I am fashionably handicapped.
And to think, I always thought I was beautiful...
What hat to wear, when to wear gloves, dresses, shoes, pocketbooks that made sense. This book was written when fashion meant something about the person wearing the clothing and accessories and not about the foolish designer who makes us all look like utter buffoons.
1964 edition is by far the superior. Also, you have to keep in mind that the author is kind of a bitch.
I just love books like this. Written originally in 1964 she talks of all things that are a guide toward elegance. Almost everything with a touch of today's world still rings true. I love all things to do with elegance and grace.
"To be elegant is first of all to know oneself, and to know oneself well requires a certain amount of reflection and intelligence.
Consequently, a woman who is utterly stupid will always find it extremely difficult to become truly elegant." - Dariaux, p.
She writes from a time when occasions -- a job interview, or a road trip in the country -- brought certain expectations for dress and grooming.
These expectations are extinct, but Dariaux is prescient in her interest in selfhood and her interpretation on elegance as the effect of intelligence and sensitivity.
What began as slightly insightful quickly turned into repetitively boring! If one has no guidepost nor individual sense of elegance, maybe this work could be helpful. However, the air of the text feels deliberately pretentious, snobby, and overworked in a look-down-one's-nose-at-the-vast-majority-of-society kind of way. I won't give lower than "2" because the editing is impeccable & the Tiffany blue cover with delicate black script is beautiful. Sincerely though, just "okay" is what this is.
I love this little book. At it's best (for me, at least) when you dip in and out of the book and pick out a random piece of advice on how to dress and present yourself coupled wth advice on the essentials of elegance. Clearly, a self-help guide, if that is not too inelegant a genre, from a gentler, kinder and somewhat more considerate era .
I read this book many decades ago, so glad to see it has stood the test of time and is still available. In a world of reality shows with trailer park trash posing as celebritities, this book is needed more than ever before.
Don't mind that her fashion suggestions are dated. She demonstrates timeless style and encourages, as well as points, you in the direction of finding your own. After all, elegance is a state of mind.
Oh if only all women would read this book. Perhaps we would then have fewer girls walking around dressed as mini-hookers and more aspiring mini-Hepburns and mini-Kennedy Onasis. Some advice is outdated, but the vast majority should be taken to heart.
I really liked this book. I'm so tired of looking at women looking like crap, when just a few decades ago we took pride in how we looked. People seem to behave better when their not shlopping around in yoga pants.
Loved this timeless handbook on elegance. My takeaways: less is better, authentic is better than fake, a few costly possessions is better than a lot of cheap stuff, and try to find a very nice hairstyle and keep it 'till the very last day you can possibly keep it.
Just like a well-cut and flattering LBD, this book is timeless.
Every woman should read this just to understand how elegance was thought of then and how it's ideals still live with us today.
tl;dr: 1. wear clothes that suit you, 2. buy quality
Living and fashion advice from 1964. What's not to like?
Old school and (other than the few dated sections) fabulous!

This is a list of how to be a Francophil-ically well-dressed woman in the 1960s. It was mostly funny. How simple it would be to wear a wool suit every day—if only it was possible to follow this advice without coming across aggressively twee. Despite not being explicitly about minimalism, this book makes me want to throw out everything I own. It describes a time where formal dinner parties were the norm and it was possible to obtain shoes of the same fabric as your dress or your shawl. My favorit
This is a list of how to be a Francophil-ically well-dressed woman in the 1960s.
How simple it would be to wear a wool suit every day—if only it was possible to follow this advice without coming across aggressively twee.
It describes a time where formal dinner parties were the norm and it was possible to obtain shoes of the same fabric as your dress or your shawl.
My favorite chapters were Knees, Accessories, Planning, Husbands, and Budget.
My favorite bits of advice were the extremely '60s recommendations to buy a bright winter coat and wear pearls all the time.
My brain has been too full to read real books, so this was a nice, light, easy read. It was funny to read about French standards of dress and deportment in the 60s. For the most part she is matter of fact, but then she occasionally says some hilarious things that make you realise that she probably isn't such a serious person after all :)
I am quite possibly the least fashionable, elegant person anyone would meet, but I genuinely enjoyed reading this book. Dream of channeling your inner Grace Kelly or Jackie O, but not certain how to go about it? Then this book is for you!
It was the book that inspired Kathleen Tessaro to write her novel "Elegance" and that is how I found it. I loved the old style charm that somehow I fell is missed these days of nylon and comfort over detailed dressing.
