https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/424130.East_and_West
J'ai eu beaucoup de difficulté à assimiler ce livre ! Il est dense et puissant ! Il est perturbant et violent ! A bas tous les préjugés sur les civilisations traditionnelles René Guénon annonce la supériorité de celles ci sur la civilisation Occidentale ! Les conditions de rapprochements sont pour lui simples mais difficiles à mettre en œuvre ; un accord sur les principes ! Les principes que l'occident a perdu depuis des lurettes !
The writer himself mention that he is not expecting more than one or two individual to fully assimilate and understand his point.
But even though with all that evil and distortion comes with this modern world , we shall be aware of the reasons behind all that as he quoted at the last sentence of this rich book : " The only ones who doubt this are those who do not know that all the partial and transitory dis-equiibrium go necessarily to make up the great equilibrium of the Universe" !
Simply: Positivist’s and post-positivist’s nightmare
While one can easily sympathize with his view that the modern west, with its rampant consumerism, exploitation of workers, and environmental destruction has in many respects become pathological, his insistence that science, reason, and western philosophy have done not the slightest bit of good for humanity quickly becomes tiresome.
One could be more forgiving of his point of view given that he wrote East and West in 1924, before many of modernity's most impressive discoveries and innovations (such as antibiotics and widespread mechanized transportation) had come to fruition, but he asserts flatly that discoveries of this kind (ie those within the material domain) will always be insignificant compared to metaphysical truth.
This book earns three stars for its recognition that modern culture retains precious little connection with authentic spiritual traditions.
Одна из самых простых для понимания книг Рене Генона. В отличие от остальных трудов, можно прочитать на одном дыхании.
Rene Guenon highlights the differences between the western and eastern civilizations. A great work for those who wish to understand the Asian, Indian, and Islamic minds.
Şaheser/MasterpieceOrjinal kitabın yarısı çevrilmiş ve o da tam çevrilmemiş, bunu bilerek okuyun.(İz Yayıncılık)
