https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/475276.D_N_Angel_Vol_1
Don't mind me, I'm just cheating on my 2015 challenge just a bit. Bahaha.Haven't read this series in a long ass time. Forgot how sexy Dark is. Yummmy
I absolutely LOVE this series!
*swoon* He's one of my top 3 favorite manga crushes ever!
I love him so much.♥And of course the cute lil furry guy on his shoulder - Wiz!
Riku and Risa are twins, and Dark and Daisuke are two halves of the same person, and they have this crazy love square going on (not in a bad way, I promise)...it's great!
I love that Riku makes Dark change and Risa makes Daisuke change.Side note, I forgot how much Risa pissed me off.
If you enjoy manga and love shoujo, I highly suggest this one!
Wow. Found this series on my shelf and decided to read it again.Maybe my tastes have grown a bit since I last read it, but I don't like it nearly as much as I once did. I find the characters a little whiny. What I once thought was fast-paced now seems poorly paced.Overall, it doesn't seem as good now than it was when I first got it... Maybe my fondness actually stems from later volumes, rather than the first.
I decided after a long debate with myself that I was going to add all the mangas that I read but to compensate the idea of not adding them all, I will only add the first volumes of the ones I finished reading.
It's not that I don't like it, I do love this series, I believed I watched the anime five times already but every time I try to read I end up stopping at some point because I don't have time and I restart every time again.
The first time I watched this series was around 2007, so it's time to celebrate this ten year anniversary by finally finishing the manga.
I'd mostly forgotten about this series! It was a fun little adventure, and Dark makes for a lot of swooning, but it was ultimately forgettable. Some okay characters and an interesting plot, but nothing particularly outstanding.
The english language publisher Tokyopop went under and the series took a generous hiatus from publication in Japan of a couple of years.IF you choose to follow this series you must be prepared to deal with this rather crucial element and a long wait before reaching the latter half of the series.The hiatus occurs at what appears to be a midpoint in the series with several new mysteries being introduced and no sense of clarity being offered to any of the pre-existing plot elements.The series is clearly written for younger girls but is shrewdly designed to appeal to the make audience as well with lots of action and phanthom thief shenanigans to entertain you.This particular volume is a little short on content, padded with short stories submitted by the same author which really should have been left for later volumes.
Dark is a charismatic, and suave phantome thief, while Daiskue seems to be your typical everday 14 year old middle school kid (although he comes from a family of phantom thieves, and has received special thief training from his mother and grandfather).
Apparently when he sees his crush he transforms into Dark (the legendary phantom thief).
You think transforming is the only problem, but then he has Satoshi Hiwatari on his trail.
From stealing rare pieces of art to school life, and romance you get a bit of everyting in this graphical novel series.
(Review for entire series)"My heart has been stolen by you."So I started reading D.N. Angel originally way back when I was in middle school.
Then I watched the anime and adored it.
Then I forgot all about it.
I decided I wanted to reread it, because I couldn't remember how it ended.
And what do you know - 15 volumes in, I realize, it doesn't end!
It's just a cliffhanger ending and now I'll never know!
What the heck?!?!That being complained about, I really do adore this series.
The art is just beautiful.
The Dark/Krad and Daisuke/Satoshi dynamics are great.
Currently my favorite series. Great characters, chaotic but plausible and easily followed plot, intense idea, low-to-no mature content, and all around way too much fun, not to mention incredible art. All the way around, I really can't find anything wrong with this. :D
Dark is such a bishi XD
Yukiru Sugisaki, COME BACK AND FINISH YOUR SERIES, DAMN YOU!
Loved it.
This book was about a young teen named Daisuke, who was rejected by his crush (important fact), gets magical powers which allow him to transform into a different person called Dark.
He notices that to turn in to dark he has to look at Riza and to turn back he has to look at Riku.
This book went very complicated as he starts to change back and forth even more and I despised when Riza wanted to become Daisuke's girlfriend when she said she didn't want him because he wouldn't raise her social standing.
If I did my ratings like that xD)This was such a weird story...
When you break it down like that, its pretty silly and strange.
It can be pretty funny though, so I am some what intrigued to see what else happens.The transformation of Daisuke really reminded me of Rosario+Vampire, and his little side kick, Wiz, looks like Pikachu....I really quite liked "N" is for Nishiki.
I wonder if the story was ever continued.Overall, I would say that I'm somewhat intrigued by where this story goes, so I'll probably check out another few volumes before I decide whether or not to dnf the series.Pick it up, give it a go and enjoy!

My first manga. Like most comic books, I have trouble figuring out what's going on a lot of the time. I'm used to reading words and tend to gloss over details in the pictures that would give me information needed for someone trying to follow the plot. The story is aimed at a demographic I'm not part of. I'm glad I'm not longer a manga virgin, and I have two more readily available which I plan to read, but I'm unlikely to seek it out for myself.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
the comcis is amazing
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
What
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
Read it, not for me, didn't pursue the series. In my trading heyday, I swapped for a lot of v. 1s of series so I read a lot!
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
This book is funny, looks just stunning, and just the right amount of romance. Now I think it should be a best seller. :)
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
