https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/492812.Angelina_Ballerina
She'll be doing that again this year.Around the same time we started getting Netflix through our Wii. There were the Angelina Ballerina episodes.
Harriet started watching them and fell completely in love with them, both the older traditionally animated ones as well as the weirder CGI version.So with Harriet so passionate about her dancing and interested in the Angelina Ballerina episodes I decided to check out the book that inspired the series.
Despite her love of the series, we read the book only once.
I guess once was enough.In this first book, Angelina is just a young mouse but she's passionate about dancing.
So, her parents decide to buy her a brand new, pink ballet dress and slippers.
After she gets her brand new gear, Angelina attends dance class and is more responsible at home.
She eventually becomes a famous ballerina.
I understand that Angelina has a dream and nothing will stop her, even her parents, even the rules.
This story would have been better if her parents had taught her to have respect for her family and for the property of others and if she had learned all of these things, perhaps they would be able to help her begin to dance.
Read during a laundry trip, short and sweet. Got interested in that "cheddar cheese pie" that Mrs. Mouseling was preparing. American kids' books are cool =)
I loved this book as a little girl, and now it's my birthday and it's four in the morning and I'm not crying YOURE CRYING
The illustrations are lovely and extremely detailed. Every time I look at the picture of Angelina dancing around her kitchen I see something new. scrub brushes under the sink. herbs drying in the window. oven mitts above the stove.
Angelina dreams of being a ballerina and she dances all day; before school, at school, while she's supposed to be doing her chores.
I had heard about Angelina Ballerina so I was expecting a lot, but this book wasn't outstanding or anything. DS did learn the word "curtsy" from this book.
LOVED THIS BOOK AS A CHILD.
Angelina Ballerina is about a young girl (mouse) who is having trouble listening to her parents because she feels the need to constantly be dancing.
From then on she went to ballet every day and got her dancing out of her system so when she got home she could listen to her parents and do what she's told.The major themes of this book are following your dreams and not giving up.There is a whole series of these books and I think I read every one at least 20 times as a kid.
The classes lead to her being extremely happy and working hard in all things-cleaning, helping her mom and of course, ballet!
She works hard to achieve her goal of becoming a famous ballerina.
3) I personally enjoyed this book because of the illustrations and basis of the story.
Angelina worked hard to reach her goals and found great success.
4) I would recommend this book for children because of the illustrations and simple, yet impactful, message.
The story is very simple but will allow kids to see how hard work can lead to accomplishing your goals.
Angelina is a small mouse who has big dreams.
Her dream was to be a professional ballerina one day, she even let it get in the way of her daily routine.
When her parents would ask her to do her chores, when she was walking to school, or even when she was playing on the playground, she was always dancing.
Finally, her parents figured out a way for her to get the best of both worlds.
This book was always one of my favorites when I was growing up because Angelina was always so fun to watch dance through the pages.
Angelina Ballerina is a super cute book that is about a girl who is in love with ballet. Growing up, Angelina loved dancing. She danced everywhere she went and did not want to do anything else. Her parents thought of the idea to send her to ballet school! Ballet helped Angelina learn how to balance dance and the rest of her life. She began doing what her mother asked her to do and started being on time. I would definitely recommend this book! It is so enjoyable and cute to read!
This was one of my favorites! Love love love! It is so cute with the story and pictures, you just want to read it over and over again. This is an adorable story of how if you are super passionate and dedicated to something you love, you can do anything to set out to do. I feel like is important because when kids have dreams of being certain things when they grow up, I want to show kids that if you truly want to do something you can do with hard work throughout your schooling.
Knew the brand but never read the original book. Impressed. Wonderful pictures and an excellent story. A bit unrealistic that once Angelina has ballet lessons she starts tidying her room, etc but it is a picture book about mice so realism isn’t really a top priority.
This is so cute! Ballet and mice, two of my favorite things!!
This one is for the parents. Hope we all take out from it that supporting our kids to develop their passions and talents. We enjoyed the illustrations and the story
Angelina mouse doesn't care about anything but dancing as a ballerina. Her parents enroll her in ballerina school which leads to her dream of becoming a professional ballerina.
3.5 stars
Cute little story and sweet illustrations. Using in conjunction with Firebird by Misty Copeland in a home literacy bag teaching social a emotional learning (practice leads to success).
I loved this book when I was little! The illustrations and story were just so adorable!
Great aret and fun story as angelina doesn't let anything get in her way as she works towards becoming a famous ballerina.
The dated line about letting the boys on the playground tag her kept me from giving this four stars.
Wonderful book to read to preschoolers
There was only a slim chance that I wasn't going to like this book, and I did! I'm sorry, a mouse wearing pink and dancing ballet? Of course I love it. It also shows good parenting by redirecting passion into a constructive form, and that hard work can help you fulfill your dreams.
This book is about a little mouse named Angelina who dreams of being a ballerina.
One day, her parents decided it is time for her to take ballet lessons and they buy her a beautiful ballerina outfit for her first day of dance lessons.
Angelina loves her ballet class and her teacher Miss Lilly.
Angelina works hard for many years and finally becomes a famous ballerina.
This is a book that I think younger children would enjoy reading and especially those children who take dance and love ballet.
Cute Children's Book!
My favorite series growing up.
At first, Angelia seems to get herself into trouble by practicing her ballet when she isn’t supposed to.
In the end, she works very hard to eventually become the famous ballerina Mademoiselle Angelia when she grow up.
iv) Personal Response: To me, this story reminds me of my long hours of dedication to ballet and how I used to run into things all the time twirling around in my own house.
v) Recommendation: I would recommend this book young children because of it’s charming illustrations and uplifting and motivating ending.
This is the story of a little mouse who wants nothing more than to be a ballerina and how she became one. This is an excellent story for little girls who love to dance. It teaches little girls that if they follow their dreams and work hard then it will come true. The illustrations are truly amazing and have so much detail! I would recommend this book to any little girl from the age of 4 to 8.
She dances instead of tidying her room and when she dances in the kitchen she knocks over a whole plate of Cheddar cheese pies.
Now Angelina dances so much in class that she can spend time at home cleaning her room and helping to bake delicious Cheddar cheese pies.
And after years of practicing, Angelina becomes the famous ballerina Mademoiselle Angelina and many people are able to enjoy her wonderful dancing.The text is set against the white of the page, making it easy to read, and the delicate, detailed illustrations deftly showcase Angelina’s wonderful movements.
There’s a timeless, yet contemporary, quality to the text and illustrations of this book.
