https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18452.The_Painted_Bird
What this novel is saying in a SCREECHINGLY LOUD voice is that you couldn’t have found a better place for your Holocaust than Poland – everyone truly madly deeply hated the Jews – and the Gypsies.
ALL of the six extermination camps (as opposed to concentration camps) were in Poland.Cinematic note : Claude Lanzmann says the same thing as Jerzy in his epic documentary “Shoah”.Back to the book.
You catch yourself wincing and saying “Ewwww, that was a good one!” like when Linda Blair's head goes round in The Exorcist.Credibility : I kind of think that fiction should tell the truth, but I also know it’s made up.
I have read many dark, disturbing novels filled with brutality of every stripe, including such works as Malamud's The Fixer, Dostoyevsky's The House of the Dead, and Solzhenitsyn's Gulag Archipelago, but, in my view, perhaps because the narrator is a ten year old boy, no novel has its main character live through a more painful hell than in The Painted Bird.Several months after reading this novel, the author himself made a visit to a large bookstore in Philadelphia for a book-signing, so I had an opportunity to actually meet him - a small man with a thin, high pitched voice and sharp, chiseled fine features, a man who struck me as being both sensitive and friendly.
But The Painted Bird did not live up to my expectations and the whole idea of it just left a very bad taste in my mouth.Pretty much anyone who's ever had some level of history education will have heard of some of the atrocities committed during the Holocaust, no matter how many times you read about human beings burning the children of other human beings and watching people slowly starve to death because of their race, religion or other factors, it is still just as shocking and horrifying.
During their separation, the boy is subject to the cruelty of the peasant society of rural Poland with its superstitious explanations of all natural phenomena, including the boy’s dark hair which makes him anathema as either a Gypsy or a Jew. He is also from time to time subject to equivalent cruelty by the invading German Army, not because he is either a Gypsy or a Jew but because he is an orphan with no obvious productive contribution to military efficiency.After a period of understandable confusion, the boy tries desperately to make sense of his new reality.
I read in the introduction that Kosinski was attacked on several occasions by Polish nationals after publishing this novel.
However, one of the most memorable images in The Shoah documentary is the Polish farmer showing how he warned the Jews heading for Treblinka of their imminent fate.
Italy for example has a much better record than Poland (or France for that matter) for its behaviour towards Jews.
At times it reads like Holocaust porn, horror piled upon horror with a sense he's rather enjoying himself and inviting us to share his voyeuristic fascination.
That being said, Kosinski also mentions that, amidst the overwhelming criticism from his native Poland, where it was banned, some of the book's supporters were critical of his 'watered down' depiction of events, given that many occurrences that took place in Europe during the war were much more dramatic and cruel than those described in The Painted Bird.
I had strangers who were very mean to me as kid, when I was the same age as Kosinsky's 'painted bird'.
Ένα αρκετά περίεργο και σκληρό βιβλίο είναι το “To Βαμμένο Πουλί»… Ο συγγραφέας περιγράφει το αιματοβαμμένο οδοιπορικό ενός μικρού Τσιγγάνου/Εβραίου στα χωριά της Πολωνίας κατά την διάρκεια του ΒΠΠ.
Αυτός είναι νομίζω και ο κύριος λόγος που το βιβλίο αυτό ήταν, είναι και θα είναι αρκετά αμφιλεγόμενο…Ο συγγραφέας παρουσιάζει τους κάτοικους της Πολωνίας σκληρούς, ανώμαλους, γεμάτους δεισιδαιμονίες έτσι ώστε όταν φτάσει ο Κόκκινος Στρατός να του είναι πιο εύκολο να τον αγιοποιήσει/ηρωοποιήσει καθώς και να πλέξει (ελαφρώς) το εγκώμιο του «Πατερούλη» Στάλιν… Οι στρατιώτες της ΕΣΣΔ παρουσιάζονται ως καλόκαρδοι, θαρραλέοι και προπαντός μεγαλόψυχοι, σε σημείο που ο μικρός θα μπορούσε για αυτούς τους ανθρώπους να απαρνηθεί και τους γονείς του… Εν τέλει το βιβλίο μου άρεσε γιατί η γραφή του Κοζίνσκι είναι απλή και κατανοητή, γιατί η άγρια πλευρά του ανθρώπου έχει ιδιαίτερο ενδιαφέρον όταν την περιγράφει ένα παιδί αλλά δεν μπορώ παραβλέψω τις πάρα πολλές υπερβολές και την "φιλορωσική" κατάληξη της ιστορίας…Οπότε 3/5 από μένα…
The author originally said it was autobiographical.
IF it were autobiographical it would be easier to swallow; you'd think that is just plain what happened.
The book is incredibly difficult to read.
Published in 1965, was there then a need to exalt in the horrors of the war?The author was also accused of plagiarism.
If you want more information, search at Wiki by the title of the book and the author's name.
I listened to the audiobook narrated by Fred Berman.
The narration was fine.
There is an author's afterword read by Michael Aronov.
10/10Kosiński, kitabın sonundaki yazısında şöyle diyor:Belki de Boyalı Kuş'un içindeki vahşet sahnelerinin abartılmadığının en iyi kanıtı ve bu dehşet zamanının savaş yılları Doğu Avrupa'sını yansıttığını en iyi anlatan olay, eski okulumdan bazı arkadaşlarımın Boyalı Kuş'un kaçak bazı kopyalarını okuduktan sonra romanın kendilerinin ve akrabalarının yaşadıklarının yanında pastoral bir öykü gibi kalacağını söylemeleriydi.Kosiński'nin hem 2. Dünya Savaşı sırasında hem de kitap yayınlandıktan sonra yaşadıkları romanın kendisi kadar dehşet verici.Yani bu kitabın her zerresi, her satırı acı ve dehşet dolu.Ben susayım, okumaktan başka çareniz kalmasın.
رمان پرنده رنگین (این رمان با عنوان پرواز را به خاطر بسپار به فارسی ترجمه شده است) اثر یرژی کوشینسکی، داستان کودک بیپناهی را روایت میکند که در میان روستاهای متروک اروپای شرقی تحت اشغال نازیها، سرگردان است. این رمان، داستان جدال و کشمکشی مایوسانه برای زنده ماندن در جهانی بیرحم را به تصویر میکشد، جهانی که ترس و وحشت جنگ، ایدئولوژی نازیها و هولوکاست بر خشونت، ترس و احساس ناامنی موجود میافزاید.در میان مایوس کنندهترین ویژگیهای اخلاقی این جهان، ظرفیت شیطانی موجود در تقریبا تمامی ساکنین آن، بیش از هر چ
کشاورزان ساکن روستاهای این داستان، در وحشیگری با آلمان‌ها برابری می‌کنند، البته کوشینسکی آن ها را افرادی پرورش نیافته، فاقد آموزش و خرافاتی معرفی می‌کند، مردمانی که شرایط خشن و اسفبارشان باعث ایجاد این وحشیگری در آن‌ها شده است، شرایطی سرشار از بی‌رحمی و وحشیگری به شکلی که تسلط قدرتمند بر ضعیف به قانونی اساسی در جامعه‌ تبدیل شده است.
خرافات کشاورزان درباره یهودیان به عنوان قاتلان خدا و درباره «دشمنانی با مو و چشمان سیاه» مانع پرسشگری آن‌ها درباره نظریات نازی‌ها مرتبط با نسل کشی می‌شود، نظریه‌هایی که همچون جنگ، محصولِ مردمانی به ظاهر پیشرفته هستند...ادامه نقد در سایت نقد روز:http://naqderooz.ir/1cr
I felt like a squashed caterpillar oozing in the dust, a creature that could not harm anyone yet aroused loathing and disgust.
In the presence of such a resplendent being, armed in all the symbols of might and majesty, I was genuinely ashamed of my appearance.
I had nothing against his killing me.Much as Nietzsche detonated a shaped charge and blew away all hope of a totalizing meta-narrative, it was books like The Painted Bird which left me ashamed, almost permanently.
I don't harbor much hope of a recovery.
Kosiński left us a catalog of horror.
Hope and Justice appear cheaply broacaded within.
Ameaçado de ser entregue aos alemães é sujeito a crueldades inimagináveis por camponeses cuja ignorância roça a selvajaria .Extremamente supersticiosos, são gente de pouca humanidade capazes de praticar todos os desvios, por mais chocantes que sejam.Mestre da descrição, J.
A cada novo embate, esta criança cresce da pior maneira e perde um pouco da sua humanidade, tornando-se um ser cada vez mais semelhante aos seus carrascos, desapegado e preocupado apenas com a sua própria sobrevivência.Quem lê este livro não consegue ficar indiferente e não o esquece nunca mais.Não consigo dar-lhe as 5* que merece, talvez um dia volte aqui e altere a classificação ...Para já, a ferida ainda está fresca...
On deciding for the title of this novel, writer Jerzy Kosinki was inspired by the symbolic use of birds in literature which "allowed certain people to deal with actual events and characters without the restrictions which the writing of history imposes". He states that there was a certain peasant custom he witnessed as a child before in which he describes it as follows: "One of the villagers' favorite entertainment was trapping birds, painting their feathers, and then releasing them in the air to
Some months later, I did just that and for two days I was immersed in witnessing the ugliest and most vile horrors I have ever read in fiction that were loosely based from real-life accounts of people who lived through the second World War. There was nothing about this book I enjoyed, to be honest.
So, yes, I did not enjoy reading this book but I was fully hypnotized into trudging along each chapter anyway.I could then claim that this was a great exercise on moral conscience and inherent human compassion on the end of the readers such as myself who have developed a certain keen sense of cynicism over the years regarding the world at large.
I can’t get past the fact that this kid really isn’t ever given a break… We go through about 200 pages of beatings and rapes and mutilations and near deaths and you (me) start to roll your eyes and think that Charlie Brown could take some life lessons from this little gypsy boy.
The only thread of compassion that I hold onto is that I didn’t feel this way when I read Anne Frank The Diary of a Young Girl or Night.
Compassion!)So, I’m glad that I read this.
I read an earlier edition than this.
I’ve read many, many holocaust era books and I’d already read quite a few when I read this one.
And this says a lot, but this one might be the most horrifying one of them all.
This was one of the most disturbing books I’ve ever read and yet I loved the book.
I read it thinking it was non-fiction; years after I read it, I read that it was fiction, but that doesn’t diminish at all the impact I feel from reading it.
Δεν ξέρω ειλικρινά αν αυτό είναι ένα βιβλίο για τα ανείπωτα του πολέμου που τελικά ειπώθηκαν ή αν είναι ένα βιβλίο για την επιβίωση και το ρατσισμό.
Προσωπικά έχω την αίσθηση ότι είναι ένα βιβλίο για τη μοναξιά, για τη μοναξιά στον καθημερινό αγώνα επιβίωσης όχι μόνο σε καιρό πραγματικού πολέμου αλλά και στον πόλεμο που συνεχίζεται εκεί έξω στην κοινωνία.
Πάντως παρά το άβολο θέμα του βιβλίο και τη σκληρότητα με την οποία αυτό περιγράφεται, είναι σίγουρα μια μεγάλη αφήγηση και ορθώς οι εκδόσεις Μεταίχμιο το έχουν συμπεριλάβει στην ομώνυμη σειρά.
Let fools argue about Kosiński's biography and "authenticity" of experience.
His supreme ability to tell a child's horrific coming-of-age story in rural Nazi-controlled Poland, where the peasants are just as gruesomely sadistic, with adult credibility and moral authority without overreaching or sentimentality, is a dark and bittersweet triumph of humanity and then also of literature.
IMHO, the book was not written as an invective against Polish peasants or Nazis alone, any more than it is solely an indictment of human nature in wartime.
Kosiński's scalpel cut too deep to the marrow to stop at Mitka-style revenge.
اگر حقیقت داشت که زنها و بچهها جزیی از دارایی اشتراکی خواهند بود، پس هر کودکی پدر و مادرهای زیاد و تعداد بیشماری خواهر و برادر خواهد داشت. چنین چیزی بیش از آن حد بود که انسان بدان چشم بدوزد: تعلق داشتن به همه! قرار بود هرکجا که میروم پدرهای فراوان با دستهای قوی و اطمینانبخش سرم را نوازش کنند و مادرهای بیشماری مرا در آغوش بکشند و برادران بزرگ بیشمار از من در مقابل دندان سگها دفاع کنندپرواز را بخاطر بسپار داستان تیرهروزیهای قربنانیان همیشهی جهالت و تعصب و جنگ است: کودکان. راوی داستان کودک شش، هفت
جنگ و تبعات مستقیم آن فقط بخش اندکی از پایان داستان را بخود اختصاص داده و بیشتر حجم داستان به بیان حال و هوای اروپای جهل زده و تبعات تثلیث فاشیسم-خرافات-کلیسا می‌گذردنویسنده در به تصویر کشیدن جهل و انحطاط اخلاقی جامعه و ارتباط آن با دیکتاتوری، که هر دو بنیان یکدیگر را تقویت می‌کنند بسیار موفق عمل کرده و این در کنار بیان مفاهیم والای انسانی بزرگترین نقطه قوت کتاب است.
ولی اگر در حقیقت این خداوند بود که تصمیم می‌گرفت که چه اتفاقی باید بیفتد پس چرا دهاتی‌ها نگران دین و ایمان و کلیسا و کشیش‌هایشان بودند؟ اگر شوروی قصد داشت کلیساها را منهدم کند و کشیش‌ها را بکشد، خداوند نمی‌توانست چنین تهدیدی را بر امت خود نادیده بگیرد.
Sadly, falling asleep while contemplating and discussing a book does not bode well for my opinion of the book but before you read any further, I by no means wish to discourage anyone from picking up this one of a kind novel.I was bored at times, becoming lost in the extreme violence, graphic descriptions of torture and sexual acts, and in what semblence of story progression that existed.
It was not until the last few pages that I realized the author meant to do this, maybe an attempt to allow readers to better connect with the main character.
It attacked the other weaker part… and that’s what we been doing for fucking millions of years now!
Some people may call me emotionally damaged because I laugh at others demise… what they fail to noticed is that when I’m laughing is because that person had a hell lot of chances to avoid all the shit that befall him/her!
This poor little kid was just walking around and shit went down on him and only him!
It felt like the whole universe decided to defecate on that poor kid!
I’am finish reading it tomorrow… I’m pretty hard to impress and easy to amuse… I mean I’m a sick fuck!
Ler, para mim, é como viver uma vida paralela sendo os livros as pessoas que caminham ao meu lado nessa vida.E, tal como as pessoas, há livros que passam por mim e nem levemente me tocam, outros ficam comigo para sempre.
Por norma, ficam aqueles que me proporcionaram um convívio mais prazeiroso, mas há outros, que de tão especiais e únicos, também ficam, apesar de me terem destroçado o coração.
Um livro que fala de inocência e de sobrevivência.Relata a história de um menino de seis anos cujos pais, para o salvarem da guerra, o enviam para uma aldeia polaca, onde ele terá de sobreviver num meio onde impera o preconceito, a superstição e a igorância e onde viverá situações de verdadeiro horror.
Here's the cover of the 1970 Pocket mass-market I just picked up (213 pages). Though I'll have to wait til I'm in the mood for something soul-shatteringly depressing. Or so I hear.
I have no idea what the hell to make of this.A catalog of horrors, unflinching, hammering them into your skull. The main character is totally broken. You yourself almost become disillusioned, and almost used to violence and shit and horror. A frightening book.
Em quase todos os capítulos de “O Pássaro Pintado” existem personagens que “acolhem” o rapaz/menino, alguns com nome, como a Marta, a Olga, o Lekh, e mais para o final, o Garbos, o Makar e a Labina, mas muitos outros identificados apenas pela sua profissão, o moleiro, o carpinteiro, o camponês, o gigante lavrador, o padre e o agricultor, o lavrador, e muitos outros que num determinado período e contexto lhe dão abrigo, em relacionamentos complexos, moldados pelas superstições e pela blasfémia, pela bruxaria e pelas curandeiras e curandeiros, da fé católica e das orações, por torturas e espancamentos inexplicáveis, pelo ódio e pela vingança sistemática, decorrentes da sua cor dos olhos, cabelo e tez da pele.
From some reviews:A white hot blast of hatredA shitstormA macabre fairy-taleToo heavy to bearA catalog of horrorsRubberneckingA sadean pornographyThanks but no thanks
From God’s point of view it seemed to make more sense if everyone lost the war, since everyone was committing murder.
dunya savasinin arka planinda neler yasandigina dair cok uc ornekleri barindirdigina inandigim bi roman oldu boyali kus.
her halukarda o donem yasanan cilginligin boyutlarini fazlasiyla anlayabilmemizi sagliyor ve ne yazik ki gercekte yasanan acilarin, kurgusal olanlardan daha az olmadigi ve hatta gercekte olanlarin kurgusal olandan daha inanilmaz oldugu gercegini degistirmiyor.ilk defa o doneme dair vahsetin bu boyutunu bu kadar ciplak gozle gordum/okudum diyebilirim.
elbette ari irk sacmaligiyla gozu donmus nazi subaylarinin yaptiklari tasvir edilemeyecek denli agirdi.
ama halka sirayet eden delilik ve gozu donmuslukse insanin kanini donduran boyutta.son olarak bazi kisimlarda okumaya devam etmekte ciddi anlamda zorlandigimi belirtmeden gecmemeliyim.
It was clear from the beginning this story was not going to be on the light side, and being a reader who typically tends toward darker material, that did not deter me in any way from launching into this book.
The atrocities seen by and committed to the little boy in the book are almost continual, before it was over he was rendered mute.
I did find the superstitions of the Slavic peasants to be fascinating, but I would think long and hard before recommending this book.
By the conclusion of the war, Kosinski has stripped every vestige of innocence from this boy, and extinguished any faith the reader might have had in humanity.
(The extended passage extolling the hero whom the reader knows to be Stalin is one of the more intricate bits of irony in the book).The transformations we witness continue to spiral into a void of tangled emotions: Power is the key, and it doesn't require magic.
Here is Kosinski describing the boy's passage down an icy river.
(Location 585)I was deep into this book before I realized there would be no traditional light at the end of the tunnel.
Když ho nějaký hovado už skoro přizabije, umučí nebo znásilní, parchant uteče do další vesnice kde nalezne ještě větší hovado a takhle se to opakuje pořád dokola, dokud neskončí válka a z kluka se stane Stalinista a tak dále pana krále.
Chvílemi byla kniha tak zvrácená, že jsem si i myslel, že se to odehrává v současnosti na Slovensku během další série Farmár hladá ženu, a to už je co říct.No, ještě do poloviny to bylo za plnou palbu, ale pak už mě trochu začala iritovat ta monotónost.
Jelikož z kluka se vyklubal Superman, kterej přežije padesát smrtí a každá další postava do pěti stránek na tuty chcípne nějakou odpornou smrtí, tak nebylo komu fandit.
