https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/171624.The_Ipcress_File
”Weapons aren’t terrible,” I said. “Areoplanes full of passengers to Paris, bombs full of insecticide, cannons with a man inside at a circus--these aren’t terrible. But a vase of roses in the hands of a man of evil intent is a murder weapon.” Michael Caine is “Harry Palmer”.The protagonist of this novel is nameless. Though there is a moment in the novel when someone whispers:“Hello Harry.”Now my name isn’t Harry, but in this business it’s hard to remember whether it ever had been. When the produ
I have such fond memories of watching her star on the TV series The Baron with Steve Forrest.Her name is Jean Tonnesson and she falls for “Harry’s” snarky charm and is soon providing him with stimulation like a secretary on Mad Man. He might be swapping fluids with her, but he still doesn’t trust her.
“Harry” is kidnapped and subjected to cold war brainwashing which was of particular interest to the author Len Deighton.
I’m sure this book made perfect sense to him or it is all one elaborate ruse on the reading public.At the beginning of many of the chapters Deighton would put a horoscope that loosely reflected the contents of the chapter.
However, in this book we never learn the name of the unnamed narrator, who delivers his report on, “the IPCRESS affair,” to the Minister of Defence.
Unlike previous spies, our hero admits that, when told to meet with Jay and secure the release of a scientist, known as, “Raven,” he “suddenly felt very small and young and called upon to do something that I wasn’t sure I could manage.” The spies in this novel are involved in exciting escapades, but they also worry about back pay, expenses and are never quite sure who to trust.
Along the way, Our Hero discomfits a number of upper-class twits, crosses paths with what we’d now call a “fixer” who works multiple sides at once, and puts the moves on his comely assistant (who happens to be as useful as she is decorative).Deighton was never a spy, but rather a 1950s illustrator and ad man.
Really?These days, our reactions to the novel The Ipcress File are most likely colored by the classic film The Ipcress File and Michael Caine’s emblematic star turn as Harry Palmer.
If you choose to read The Ipcress File today, especially if you’re drunk deeply from the well of LeCarre, be prepared to be let down.
This is Len Deighton debut written in 62The anonymous narrator describes a certain operation to a gov official and to us readers it looks like a long letter with footnotes and appendices.
The unnamed narrators who in popular culture became Michael Caine and his name was Harry in the movie, but in the novel he was called Harry in one page and that was the only clue that Harry could be his name.
He is the antithesis of James Bond, more down to earth and real...
the struggle is real for him..
no flashy cars and rich food and gorgeous femme fatale..
This has been praised as a literary thriller that helped shape the espionage thriller genre, and I've seen Deighton compared to Dickens, contrasted favorably to Ian Fleming.Frankly, this struck me as rather juvenile.
Unlike Fleming, Deighton doesn't have a background in intelligence, and the book never struck me as plausible.
This is Len Deighton's first novel--before this he had been working as an illustrator according to his introduction--and it shows.
Yet this narration was so rambling and confusing I'd go over passages twice to try to get what was going on and failing.
And given what I've read in the other reviews, I'm not the only reader confused.
The tone is basically Noir filtered through the spy thriller with a little dash of The Man Who Was Thursday surrealism with the result that it had one of those hyper-dense narratives, full of non sequiturs, one-liners and sudden plot shifts, that means if your mind wanders for a line or two, suddenly you find yourself desperately skipping back pages trying to figure out what is going on.
Don't get me wrong: I've read and enjoyed Noir fiction in the past and I understand that sometimes with the genre it's more about soaking up the atmosphere of the text rather than trying to puzzle out every nuance of the plot (that way lies madness), but nevertheless I did feel The Ipcress File ramped up the convoluted narrative to ridiculous levels.
It's hard to believe this was Deighton's first book.
Had I written something as clever, sarcastic, and thrilling as this, I would have stopped there, and admired myself in the mirror for a decade.
Good thing Len didn't--this book gets scrambled at the end.
By contrast, by the time he hit his stride in the three Bernard Sampson trilogies, there wasn't a hair out of place.
Deighton didn't go to Eton; he's not an Oxbridge grad.
This book is the anti-Bond, in the same way the Samson series is the anti-Le Carré.
Which makes it well worth admiring in front of a mirror.
I've long been a fan of the Michael Caine movie based on this novel, and having read the Bond books a couple of years ago and working through the Smiley novels this year, I was intrigued to see where the unnamed spy of Deighton's books fitted in to the triumvirate.And unfortunately I was disappointed.
The writing style doesn't have Flemming's over the top flamboyance or Le Carre's Austen-like calm, but instead uses a 40s-style noir method of writing that, for me, grated intensely - I couldn't read it without an american accent in my head and then I kept getting reminded that he was from Burnley - even though nothing in the book backed that up apart from his saying he was from Burnley and he didn't like posh blokes.
Instead of a re-read, this turned out to be a first-timer.On one hand, I liked The Ipcress File; on the other, I found it curiously remote.
The protagonist is a fairly anonymous individual, and we are never really privy to his thought processes, the way, say, we are with James Bond or the characters of John Le Carré.
In both cases, the action is excessively murky.Although the protagonist tries to explain it all in the final chapter, I cannot help but think that Len Deighton does not run a tight ship.
I've noticed this book mentioned on a lot of espionage/thriller lists over the years but hadn't got around to reading it, nor have I seen the movie.
I was in a way expecting it to be a rollicking good read but it wasn't quite that for me.
The thriller/espionage component was interesting as well.However there were a few too many gaps in the delivery of the plot.
I couldn't help but feel that there wasn't enough characterization with some of the secondary characters to give the novel a more rounded feel.Nevertheless I'm glad that I eventually got around to reading.
Of course, the film and the reputation of the book gives the reader motivation to stick with it.
However, I’m glad I did.This 1960s spy story has far more depth and character development than the Bond novels that were more or less contemporaneous.
Unless, of course, he was so steeped in the burgeoning spy literature of the time that he absorbed the most striking and probable aspects of these worlds and was able to apply his own brand of fiction in such a way as to make them utterly believable.I’m unsure how I missed this in my earlier days of reading.
I was surprised that I did not like this book better than I did. I am very much a fan of Deighton's Bernie Samson series. But THE IPCRESS FILE, Deighton's first, was not as well-written. Oh well. If you like 1960s era espionage thrillers, you might want to check it out. It seems to be a classic of that genre. And it is amusing.
The Ipcress File is one of the earlier spy novels with a betrayal scheme, even if it is an extremely familiar plot to readers of Deighton and Le Carré's later novels.While many of the positive features of The Ipcress File became staples of the spy thriller genre, making them now seem less innovative, it still has nice touches all of its own.
The ironic chapter headings, supposedly Harry Palmer's newspaper horoscope for the day, form one which I particularly liked.
Atrocious book.
Possibly the worst I've read.
The plot is a disjointed mess; it is laughably bad.
If you want a spy book - Le Carre is an absolute master.
Pfft..This book is described as a thriller.
Pain in the hole to read.
"Suddenly the motor cut out and there I hung bouncing in space like a budgerigar in a sprung cage." Pardon?
Gibberish Deighton, absolute garbage.
I ended the book there, at p200.
It sounds like it's written by a 17 year old, and after reading the Introduction it lamely refers to how he got his inspiration.
a watch:After reading Michael Caine's biography What's It All About I decided the next time I want to knit a pair of socks, I would kill two birds with one stone i.e. watch Caine and re-visit that wonderful Deighton story.
No - I cannot just sit with handies unoccupied.Trouble is, before I even press the start button I know that the 'me' that is 'now' will not salivate over the Deighton story in quite the same way I did 'back then'.
how deserted the Albert Hall and Trafalgar Square vicinities were lol
Dalby re-emerges, and reveals intelligence suggesting that Jay's operations will interfere with an American neutron bomb test in the Pacific.Dalby, Jean and the protagonist arrive at the test site as British observers.
This confirms the protagonist's suspicions that Dalby is in fact the traitor.Murry discovers the protagonist, who reveals himself to be an undercover operative from military intelligence also investigating Dalby.
The protagonist escapes, but is soon captured by Jay's operatives and taken to meet Jay. But military intelligence follows them, and Jay and Dalby are arrested by Colonel Ross.
It was first published in 1962 but I’d not read it before (although I thought I had!) and I was pleasantly surprised at the quality of the writing, the excellent sense of place, especially in London, and the laconic but quite realistic tone.The Ipcress File a spy novel which is often bracketed with Ian Fleming and John le Carré and which seems to me to be something of a bridge between them, both chronologically and in style and content.
Plugged another hole in my espionage reading, particularly inexplicable given how much I like the movie and the fame of the author. I enjoyed it very much but was ill prepared for what a challenging read it was or how different from the movie. The latter point particularly unusual as older adaptations tend to be more faithful in my experience. I couldn’t help but read the protagonists lines in Michael Caine’s accent but this was no bad thing. The plot is complex, the characters well fleshed out and the conclusion satisfying. Deserving of its reputation and recommended.
DID NOT FINISHIMPENETRABLE
Taking him away from the Jay investigation Dalby requests our protagonist joins him on a trip to observe an American nuclear weapons test in the Pacific.
A huge commercial success when published The Ipcress File is often mentioned as one of the best spy novels of all time and whilst I do not disagree with that statement I must warn readers that this is a book that will require your full attention.
There is a lot of mystery and subterfuge within the book and I have to admit to getting a little lost at times.
The popular novel of little or moderate worth will date less well, and will actually become rather dull for future readers, a strange fate for a book that was written precisely to grab their attention.The popular works of female literature tend to be historical, romantic, family sagas etc.
Often these are marked by a rather stodgy attention to detail, with attempts at factual information often getting in the way of telling a good story.Len Deighton’s novels fall into the category of Cold War thrillers.
Set during the height of the Cold War, The Ipcress File deftly captures the paranoia inherent in an occupation where facts are manufactured and loyalties are situational.The story follows an unnamed espionage agent who is attempting to track the activities of a foreign agent code-named Jay, suspected of turning a number of capable British citizens over to the Soviets.
As the story progresses, a number of efforts are made to determine how Jay achieves his goals, leading on a twisting path that is ultimately recounted to a minister in the eponymous title.Len Deighton's first novel takes a while to even become coherent.
Given the espionage theme, I had expected to find myself comparing The Ipcress File to Ian Fleming's much more famous British spy novels.
A better point of comparison, though, comes from over the pond.
Deighton's decidedly non-Oxbridge spy reminded me of a British version of Raymond Chandler's Philip Marlowe.
Compliments for hard-boiled noir heroes simply don't get any higher, and this is most definitely that kind of story.
What marks our hero out is not his education but his sheer unflappability.
Deighton's prose clips along at a terrific pace and carries the reader even when it isn't clear at all what exactly is going on.
Sometimes, it's better not to know.
I started to get it about half way, it is not about a story, there is no story as such, the novel is about describing the actual unglamorous world of espionage.
It could be described as a realist novel.It is important to remember the The Ipcress File was written during the Cold War, published 1962, so it would have had a different authenticity, mood, veracity, ambience, atmosphere, than it does today.
The film's iconic status is in part due to John Barry's film score, and the theme tune, The Ipcress File, which captures the atmosphere of the shadowy world of espionage like no other.
Had I been alive in the 50s and 60s, and British, I might have enjoyed this more.
I found it a bit tough to follow.
I don't know if this was a result of never really getting into this book, or a result of not picking up on some of the slang, but I kept getting the feeling that things were being alluded to that I simply wasn't catching.
At several points I went back and reread passages and still had no clue what was happening.
In the end, I got the big picture of what happened but in a spy novel, the fun is in the details.
I'll probably pass on other Deighton novels in the future.
Tricky.The opening made me utterly miserable: wonderful images combined with a sense of surreal, almost Kafkaesque bureaucratic unreality. By the time I worked out what was going on at *that* point, events had long since passed me by.In the end--a satisfying mystery, and kudos for both giving me a sense of how disorienting trying to work things out really is, and the skill to pull me through.
Not at all of the same quality as Berlin Game and the others. The problem wasn't that the story was difficult to follow (it was) or that the main character's character never seemed to materialize (it didn't). The problem was that despite the torture, the kidnapping, the secrecy, the plotting and counter-plotting, the book was just downright boring.And what was up with the appendices? Talk about annoying!
I just couldn't get into this book! Perhaps because it's not a genre I usually read, or maybe I found the heavy first person narrative off-putting? All I know is: when you groan with disappointment when you pick up a book to continue reading it, you need to give up - it's not worth wasting your time!
way too complicated, most of it explained in the epilogue at the end as the author did such a poor job of telling the story. Not as exciting as Fleming's Bond series and not as believable as Le Carre's Smiley - there are many better spy novels out there . . .
I am uncertain on the dates I read this book and then saw the movie. It was one of the first books of that genre that I read, and I still like to read spy and thriller books.Thank you Mr. Deighton, for a good read.
