https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16070903-fallen-too-far
I am conducting what I'm shelving as a "New Adult (NA) Experiment". I'm going to work my way through some of the popular New Adult books and see if I can weed out the crap and hopefully find some surprising gems. Here's hoping!............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................This book has been disqualified from my NA experiment because it turns out that I'm not actually enough of a masochist for this shit.
He totally looked like SIN *fans herself*I hated and loved this book, I swear I want to burn it to ashes but I love it too too much!Rush, HOT HOT HOT sinfully hot and just ah-mazing.
Love you boy!Blaire, Hot, sweet, innocent and clueless.Nan, I wish you burn in the lowest degree of hell.
(view spoiler)[I so wanted to bust Rush's balls for not telling her in the first place, I mean WHAT A FUCKING CUNT.How the hell is it the bloody children's fault if the parents do shit man?And it wasn't even Blaire's mother fault.
;PBtw, totally loved this book.
While “Fallen Too Far” didn’t reach the despicable lows of “Thoughtless”, it did come pretty close thanks to its incredibly unsettling portrayals of women and relationships.Let’s start with one issue this book presents that I think represents a real disconnect from the contemporary world it claims to depict.
If you want to call yourself a professional author, you need to act professional.The dialogue is sloppy and predictable, ticking off all the expected boxes of New Adult angst and all-consuming lust (because I refuse to call what these books portray love).
It’s that “Fallen Too Far”, for all its genre in its sexism, laziness, internalised misogyny and sloppiness, is what we’ve now come to expect from New Adult literature.
A deliciously angsty bad-boy-meets-innocent-girl forbidden romance.It was one of those books that I pretty much inhaled in one sitting and made me get all growly whenever someone tried to interrupt me.Half a page in and I was grinning from ear to ear and yup, everything I’ve heard about Abbi Glines’ writing is true.
Not when your soul was shattered.”  I really think fans of "Beautiful Disaster" will love this book.Abbi Glines, once my heart recovers, you have yourself a new fan!Now I know a lot of you want to know about the cliffhanger.
With many romance novels, I find that the numerous love scenes tend to become over-played and monotonous—doing nothing to enhance the actual story.
I always love when a story can throw a curve ball that I didn't see coming and I appreciated how this bend in the plot was tackled; believable and not over-the-top.
Very sweet and sexy read!
▪	 Genre/Category: Romance/New Adult▪	 Steam Caliber: Extremely steamy!▪ Romance: Initial tension, sexy bickering, passionate connection.▪	 Characters: Brooding, arrogant alpha.
▪	 Plot: Quick paced, addictive story with a twist.
SPOILER FREE REVIEW -Mature content reader discretion is advised.4 STARS out of 5Genre: New Adult Romance SERIOUSLY PEOPLE... Who ends a book like that???? *Screaming in outrage*Well, obviously this book got the best of me... The author managed to leave me in an emotional strong hold once I finished reading and now I am in desperate need for book 2.FULL REVIEW POSTED 2/9/13 “I’m from Alabama. I own boots, tight jeans and a gun,”  ~Blaire Blaire has experienced lost on every level and with her mo
The author managed to leave me in an emotional strong hold once I finished reading and now I am in desperate need for book 2.FULL REVIEW POSTED 2/9/13
Blaire has experienced lost on every level and with her mothers recent death she finds herself in need of her fathers help.
When he knew damn well she was on her way to see him.Rush is not at all very welcoming to Blaire.
~RushAnd as much as Blaire tries to fight her attraction to Rush she finds it damn near impossible to not want him.
She is a beautiful damsel in distress....But is he her knight in shining armour ?? He might be,he might not.It does not matter because she is falling for his charms, falling for his caring side.Falling for the rush only he can give her.She is falling for this intriguing and very bad boy.And she might just have...........FALLEN TOO FAR!!--------------------------------------------------------Now,first of all,allow me to vent my anger and frustration..... Nan --Can't you get rid of all the venom
--Damn girl,don't do this!!!**sigh** I'm done.Sorry,I usually rant in the end,but by now nearly everyone has already read this book.So I figured it won't hurt.------------------------------------------------------I liked this one.And now I know why everyone raves about this.This is good.I like that Blair is strong,independent and does not whine.Though she is a bit naive too.I can say that I admire her loyalty.But I hope she will listen to others once she calms down.Now Rush,I am a sucker for guys like this.I mean who isn't.Hot,bad boys with an even badder attitude!!So,Rush Crush ClubThe story was fast paced and easy to read.Though I would have appreciated a little more insight on the characters and a greater bonding with them.---------------------------------------------------------
And the writing style certainly didn’t help.
Don’t even get me started on the difference between action tags and dialogue tags, and how to properly punctuate them.
A period is needed as a separator between the action and the dialogue, not a comma.Moving on.I felt like there was far too much telling and not enough showing.
And as much as he claimed to want to stay away from her, he didn’t try very hard.Blaire:For a smart girl, she sure was dumb.
I just didn’t understand her attraction to Rush, and her constant fawning over his good looks was an irritant I could’ve done without.
Of course, there's a villain in the story who goes by the name of  Nan  who is such a BITCH, I just wanna slap her and her posse for giving Blaire such a hard time (view spoiler)[ She has her reasons though, which will be revealed at the last chapter of the book, and that's when I understood her  (hide spoiler)].
I love how the story went on, at first, Rush ignoring his feelings for Blaire, but when he couldn't take it anymore, WOW!!!
He was what made me want to stay.” Their story isn’t over…  This is the type of book you'll hate to love.
4.5 ENTERTAINING BUT HIGHLY EMOTIONAL STARS.Fallen Too Far was my very first book by Abbi Glines and I already know it won't be my last...Blaire --Rush -- She's a young, unexperienced girl who's been hurt more than once by the people she loved.He's a typical bad boy...tattooed, pierced and a different girl every night.They are each others stepbrother and stepsister and therefore a recipe for disaster... (or not). When I first started reading Fallen Too Far I expected it to be an easy, fun story
4.5 ENTERTAINING BUT HIGHLY EMOTIONAL STARS.Fallen Too Far was my very first book by Abbi Glines and I already know it won't be my last...Blaire --Rush --
It's immediately obvious that Rush and Blaire are from two completely different worlds; he's spoiled, a little condescending and he's used to always getting what he wants.
Now all he wants, is Blaire but he also knows he might not be the right kind of guy for her...
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~It was fun reading how the tough guy Rush started falling more and more for the sweet and innocent Blaire.
This is me officially giving up on Abbi Glines' books Did you read that GR community? I. GIVE. UP.I just cannot seem to find what's so amazeballs about her books when all I find in them is just beautiful. RICH. people.The main character, Blaire, was just so stupid I can't even decribe it. And Rush, the male lead, was so full of shit. I wanted to kick his ass during the entire book My God, I hated this book. I did. And nothing will change my mind.This is just one big hot mess. Starting with Rush'
UP.I just cannot seem to find what's so amazeballs about her books when all I find in them is just beautiful.
I wanted to kick his ass during the entire book
My God, I hated this book.
Starting with Rush's mood swings that had me all mad and confused and followed by Blaire's stupidity of falling for a guy who has sex with a different girl every night.
But that's the normal part of the story.Blaire SAW Rush have sex with another gir.
And the ending was a big, fat WTF.I don't really want to say too much because, you know, spoilers and all that.
4 Secrets, Lies & Rush Finlay Stars“Talk.
Then I want you naked in my bed again.”What happens when your world crumbles around you?
And now she has to turn to her deadbeat, coward father to find a place a stay, a new start in her life.But life deals her another unexpected hand.
He wants her but he is afraid that he will taint her, ruin her and that she will find out the secrets they are harbouring and they will destroy the fragile balance she managed to maintain.
I want to so damn bad it hurts like a motherfucker but I can’t.
I love this story and the possibilities for future books are endless!!!My Cast Photos After burying her mother, Blaire packs her old truck and heads for some much needed help from her estranged father.
Yep can you feel the warmth --- but there is chemistry and it’s strong.Rush Finlay is gorgeous playboy who is very deep and tortured.
She finds her strength in the love that her mother gave it keeps her secure, like a foundation.
Poor Blaire is treated a bit like Cinderella living under the stairs of the mansion and working for the elite at the country club.
Abbi has done it to me again!!! I LOVED THIS STORY!!!! Such great characters that pull you in and make you root for them or hate them with such passion. March can not come fast enough!!!My Rush: My Blaire: My Grant: My Nan: My Woods:
4 starsOverall, I really enjoyed this book. If you like the New Adult genre that features a well written story, you'll LOVE this one!
Made progress: 35% DNFI usually don't like giving any book 1 star, but this one deserves far worse.
__________________DNF 17% 1 "Lesson Learned" Star.
Maybe one day i'll get back to it, but time is too precious right now, i can't waste any on this.
And the cover is extremely ugly!
Why the hell am i reading this book then you may ask.
I have no idea, except all my friends have given it 4 or 5 stars, and i'm also trying this new thing where i don't "judge a book by it's cover".
Wait, another book with an "innocent" girl and a guy who's played everyone?
Isn't this like every other Glines book (at least the 6 or so others I've read)?
How about flipping this for once and giving us the experienced girl with the inexperienced guy?Sigh.
I was going to read this because I do like the sexual tension that Glines creates, but now I don't know...I even broke out the happy keys for Because of Low because I thought we headed in a positive direction.
Do I need to get myself a new key?
Well, I can tell you it might possibly be my favorite Abbi Glines book written, but I don't want to say much and ruin the story for you all.
I love all the girls in Abbi Glines' books, but I usually fall for the boys immediately.
(Not to mention the familial obstacles they face.) She has been in a relationship before, but she's never known a guy like Rush.
I often make strong attachments to the supporting characters in Abbi Glines' books.
This particular story is a little bit different than some of Glines' other books though.
*3.5*
Review posted to: Swept Away By Romance5 Sensational StarsGenre: New Adult Contemporary Romance/ very Mature Young Adult Romance Heat Barometer: 5 out of 5 flamesThis is the first book in a new series and it was…Spectacular!
Her world and family was torn apart and in the end, her normal high school life was a heartbreaking struggle as she took care of her sick mother alone.
The depth and direction led to one heck of a reveal...it could be I was so caught in the sexual fog of Blaire and Rush that I was blindsided.At 93% I kept thinking I hope this isn't a quick ending because the book has been too perfect to just finish it off.
The first half of the book I would give around 3.5 but the second half around 4.5- So, I'm going to settle at 4 StarsMeet Blaire and Rush:Get it giiiirrrrlThe first half of the book was just kind of strange to me...So this new girl, Blair, shows up at her dads house.
I think Blair was supposed to be this hardcore country girl that doesnt take shit from anyone- but all I read through out this entire book was her just taking it and doing nothing about it.
Rush is so into Blaire at this point- it's ridiculous (in a good way ;)) Dude is totally falling for her.
(hide spoiler)]Blaire was a girl that had faced the cruel side of life!(view spoiler)[Her mother and sister died and her father(loser) had ambandoned her.
(hide spoiler)]WHYYYYY???People were being mean to Blaire and like that wasnt enought she had to face her father , learn the truth about her past (view spoiler)[and leave back to her town!
(hide spoiler)]“I held his gaze.
I could see the storm in his eyes.
Then there was the love.
The fierceness in his eyes.
The love wasn't enough.
Everyone always said that love was enough.
A sweet story about a guy trying not to give into his feelings over a girl, and also finding out that the girl he's falling for is not what he first assumed.
When I finished reading, this is a perfect example of how I felt:  For those who loved Fallen too Far (Fallen Too Far #1), it might be best for you to disregard this review because my reaction to this latest by Abbi Glines has me less than happy. Actually more like, WTFOMGBBQ did I read? This book is the perfect example of what is wrong with New Adult and the path it’s taking as a genre or a literary category. I will start by saying that Glines does have an engaging writing style. I can see why
Nothing more.”Keep in mind that Rush is going to end up being Blaire’s love interest, the same man who has sex with girls and one night stands without a care.This is the man Blaire will fall in love with and choose as her soul mate.
Funny how Buck, who tries to rape Jacqueline, the heroine of that story, is the nasty villain, but when Rush does the same to Blaire, he's the hero, the love interest and one the reader is supposed to sympathize with and wants Blaire to have her HEA with.
WHAT IN THE NAME OF ALL CLIFFHANGERS??The moment when you realize the book has ended but the story hasn't:  Ok, I am slightly calmer now. But I really have to say something or I'm probably going to explode.YO PEOPLE. Whether you are fictional or not, STICK BY YOUR CHILDREN'S SIDE. You might be screwed up beyond repair, you might regret your decisions. I DON'T CARE. STICK BY YOUR FAMILY OR GET THE HELL OFF THE FACE OF THE EARTH.Choosing the benefit of one child over the other? And for what? To ea
WHAT IN THE NAME OF ALL CLIFFHANGERS??The moment when you realize the book has ended but the story hasn't:
STICK BY YOUR FAMILY OR GET THE HELL OFF THE FACE OF THE EARTH.Choosing the benefit of one child over the other?
To shy away from the responsibility of taking care of a family shattered by pain?
The love for her mother is so admirable that by the end I was cheering up for her to get the hell out of that family.
I didn’t care.
You are a book boyfriend and let's just face it:
Then you have Mr. Bad Boy, son of a rock god, pierced, tattooed, money bags and a sex machine who is totally taken by surprise by Blaire.
I didn't expect Blaire to be so mature and capable and I didn't expect her love interest to be Rush.
Rush was definitely unexpected considering he was such a jerk at the beginning and was having sex out in the open where Blaire would see him!
I love how he reacted to Blaire but I didn't like the secret he was keeping.
I really enjoyed Grant, Rush's step brother and had initially thought he would end up with Blaire.
Rush is the only son of a famous rock musician, and Blair is the innocent, big-hearted good girl who has sacrificed a lot in her life.
Bwahahaha;) The story kept moving, and so did Rush and Blair's combustible chemistry.
Nevertheless, Fallen Too Far was a very good time:)Abbi Glines writes *super* sexy and unputdownable New Adult (stress on ADULT) stories, and they are books that I often find myself reading more than once because, well, they're just that fun!
Jump on, and ride the Abbi Glines Train of Sexy Good Times with the rest of us addicts!
Eines der dümmsten Bücher ever
“You said everything I needed to hear. I’m hooked now. You have me. What are you going to do with me?”  I knew this book was going to be trouble from the moment I saw the cover for it and read the blurb, but I never could have imagined how much I would end loving every single page, every single scene, every single word. This is a book that will take your mind and heart hostage until the last sentence. It will grab your attention from the very first gun-pulling, hunk-smirking, girl-sighing mome
I knew this book was going to be trouble from the moment I saw the cover for it and read the blurb, but I never could have imagined how much I would end loving every single page, every single scene, every single word.
Every preconception he had about her simply because of whose daughter she is slowly crumbles and he is left with a heart that wants and needs to love someone like Blaire, and a mind that tells him he is all wrong for her and would only end up breaking her heart.
4.5 StarsOk, so I totally stayed up all night and read this in one sitting!
How is that I have never read this series before?
And full disclosure, it was my first Abbi Glines book ever!
Crazy right?
So, you have your typical over the top angsty teen stuff.
Blaire is seriously beaten down-her sister died, her dad abandoned them, then her mom dies and Blaire is all alone.
There is a couple times they have sex without a condom so I know that is bothersome for my safety gang sisters.
Full review will be on The Book Disciple
