https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/380569.Grifter_s_Game
ALERT: HARD CASE CRIME MAY CAUSE INTENSE, MULTIPLE BOOKGASMS!!HCC, you saucy, filthy, gorgeous little minx. I’m so glad I found you. After gobbling up book #1, I learned there are...steady...steady...65 MORE OF THESE...which made me...well... NOIRites, I gotta tell you, I fell hard, fast and "damn the consequences" for this sinister steaminess. And to then find out that there are 60+ more of these seedy, unwholesome, dangerously bits of noirish nastiness, caused such a stoking of my literary lib
ALERT: HARD CASE CRIME MAY CAUSE INTENSE, MULTIPLE BOOKGASMS!!HCC, you saucy, filthy, gorgeous little minx.
That is, until the Day-o he meets Mona…rich, beautifully bountiful and sexiluscious Mona...and quickly finds himself naughty bit deep in the most difficult and potentially life-shortening con of his career.
That is all I want to tell you specifically about the plot, except that it is pulse-poundingly fast and tight as a drum.
Bottom-line, I loved this in a “can’t get enough of you baby” sorta way and have bought the next 10 or so of the HCC catalog hoping for more "sweet" tarts and "sour" whisky from the sinful heaven that is Hard Case Crime.
Grifter's Game, even 50 years after its original publication, still manages to surprise and morally offend...and I loved it!
Block has you helplessly rooting for scumbag Joe Marlin, as he cons his way into money and into bed.
Couple more solid characters with a sexy, salty story and you've got something!
Joe's falling for a girl holds, at its basis, the same weight of emotional baggage as any love story.
However, the way he pursues and conquerors that love in the end may shock you!
I guess every reader familiar with the femmes-fatales of the noir classics would instantly recognize Mona as another player, but Joe is led by his hormones and starts planning how to separate her from her rich husband and get her, and her money, in an exclusive deal.Most of the fun of the novel is about Joe becoming aware of the chump he has been : I tried to imagine a movie in which a hero steals two pieces of luggage, one of which is loaded with a fortune in raw heroin.
I hope that the men I know take it as a compliment that I had a little trouble buying-in with this one. Don't get me wrong, Lawrence Block knows how to write his genre better than most, so I'll take some of the blame for my failure to suspend disbelief.(view spoiler)[Call me cynical, but if one roll in the hay (or on the sand, as it were) has a girl (one who scoped you out no less) promising you forever, something's probably up. However, definite points for creativity and discomfort-inducing ending to it all. (hide spoiler)]

Pulpy Tagline: "The living was high and the pickings came easy – till my one wild love became my sweet, slow death"I've started reading and enjoying Lawrence Block's Matt Scudder series this year and I decided to try this book out, an early noir one-off by the author which also happens to be the first reprint by the popular Hard Case Crime series.
I looked at her and watched her turn into a sex symbol in front of my eyes.
She did not look sweet and virginal and lovely anymore.
“She made love with the freshness of an impatient virgin and the ingenuity of a sex-scarred whore.”
Interesting premise that turns depressing. Easy to tell this is a 50 year old story. 4 of 10 stars.
Not only is this novel so tightly edited, it's a no-nonsense, straight up page-turner.When I was hit with the first plot twist, my mouth dropped open.
As the novel progresses, you begin to really sympathise with Joe and start to like the guy; rooting for he and Mona to prevail.Which is probably why the ending had such a strong impact on me.
You could have asked me in the beginning to try and predict where this was going to end up and I could say with absolute certainty, there's no way I could've seen this one coming.
The ending not only shocked me, it felt like a punch in the stomach.
I found it to be more devious than I had expected and frankly an unexpected form of violence.This novel was written in 1961 and as you may imagine, it will not meet any modern standard for political correctness.
While the themes of sex is pervasive, it is treated in a matter of fact fashion and while moderately graphic, it is not written to be erotic, at least not by today's standards.
It is difficult to find commentary on the sex/violence/language content of book if you are interested.
Sex takes up a significant portion of this short novel and some people will find it to be offensive.
But a been there, done that attitude struck, and he fell off my radar for years.Then I saw my Goodreads friend Stephen had hit a major scoregasm when he read it, so of course after reading that I was reminded that I had to get back to reading this guy.Now, this was written back in 1961.
This is very dark, and considering the time in which it was written, I am bumping what would be a four-star read to five stars.
Wow, this was dark.
Then things become darker after the murder; the killer isn't quite racked with guilt, he says, but spects of the act keep returning to haunt him.
Then, as happens in a noir, there's one double-cross more than expected and things get seriously dark.
I thought Jim Thompson gave an already dark narrative an ending that pretty much tipped things over into utter existential horror in 'The Getaway' but for my money, Block ups the ante here with his equally dark but more plausible ending.
Fuck, a good noir makes Lovecraftian horror seem cheery in comparison, doesn't it?
A fast paced narrative that will keep the reader on its toes right to the end.I’m not going to lie to you, while reading this book I have to think back on my past and all the dumb things I’ve done and I thought to myself, I might have been a pretty good grifter if I was born back then.
He really knows how to write both noir and hard-boiled novels that remain gritty and fresh, after so many books I’m not sure how he manages to do this.Grifter’s Game is probably not the best novel to start with if you’ve never read Lawrence Block, but is definitely one worth trying.
I've many a lot of LB's books (well over 50) but so prolific a writer is he that there's probably just as many I haven't read.
My favourites are probably his well(ish) known series: Scudder, Rhobenbarr and Keller.
But many of his one off novels are excellent too - my personal favourite being Small Town.
They are consistently well structured and cleverly plotted; this is the case whether you pick up one of his later offerings or one of his early works.
After a few average novels, anchoring up in LB's safe harbour is always a welcome place to be.
First book of his Hard Case Crime series,which are written under his own name. As all of Lawrence Block's books,it is very entertaining! Since it was written in 1960 the prices are all out wack by today's prices.Makes you want to have 2015 money in 1960!
It would be fair to say that in a straight match-up between this and some of Mr Block’s early Scudder books that I have been reading lately, I have enjoyed the Scudder’s more.Grifter’s Game gives us Joe, conning and scoring his way from hotel to hotel, city to city with barely a backward glance when the jig is up.
A couple of trysts later and after the discovery by Mona of her husband’s stolen suitcases in Marlin’s room; Marlin the conman, for so long the controlling player in the game of the con, starts getting played by Mona.
Block does what any good hard-boiled crime writer should be able to do–take a hackneyed set of characters and plot devices and turn them into a thoroughly entertaining read.
His attitude towards life is exceedingly simple and honest: “I liked money; you could buy nice things with it.” Recovering from a backfired con, Gavilan grabs a couple of suitcases that have been left unattended.
Instead, let’s just say the final passages display a level of cruelty that would easily horrify the amateur pulp reader.Grifter’s Game is the first of several standalone stories by Block that have appeared in the Hard Case catalog.
Lawrence Block has to be one of the most prolific and savvy writers.
Having written under numerous pen names during his early career, he has begin reissuing many of them as e-books or under the Hard Case label.
Grifter’s Game is one of the latter, having gone through two previous iterations first as “Mona”, then “Sweet Slow Death”.
It was originally released in 1961.The plot is hardly original: con man meets beautiful girl; they fall in love; she is married to gangster; they conspire to kill said gangster, etc.
But the treatment is original Block and always enjoyable.
The end is surprising.
Before his hit man series, before Bernie the burglar, Lawrence Block was writing excellent novels featuring antiheroes.
Actually, forget the "hero" bit -- the reason the main character in this 1961 novel is at all sympathetic is because Block so skillfully voices the character's motives and confusion.
Yes, the superficial touchstones in this book are dated firmly in the "Mad Men" era (lots of public smoking, very low prices) but the primary touchstones remain timeless (crime, drugs, treachery).
This book reads quickly and is a good choice for the Hard Case Crime imprint, and for your bookshelf if you enjoy crime novels.
This one had all the ingredients to my liking, a con man on move, unchaste wife, old husband, heroin , beaches, casinos.The story is narrated in first person from point of view of joe marlin who moves from one city to other in search of his next con game , he gets hand on stash of heroin and gets in touch with mona brassard who is a damsel in distress . its racy thriller and sucks u in with first page, the narrative is excellent and keeps u hooked till end. enjoyed every bit of it
PROTAGONIST: Con man Joe MarlinSETTING: Atlantic CitySERIES: Hard Case Crime #1RATING: 3.5When you're a con man, life consists of taking advantage of every opportunity that comes your way.
That's been Joe Marlin's life for a long time.
He comes up with a plan for eliminating Mr. Brassard, the end result being that he and Mona will sail off into the sunset with a ton of money and each other.Of course, it doesn't quite work out like that.
Joe's been in the con game too long and knows that Mona spells danger.
Small-time grifter hits the big one when he steals a suitcase with $1 million in heroin stashed inside.
Copyright 1961 by Lawrence Block (original title 'Mona') but republished in 2004 as part of the Hard Case Crime series, which apparently aims to recapture the grit (and look) of the pulp-fiction novel.
In that respect, Grifter's Game succeeds.
It's well-written and hard-edged, with lean prose and a classic setup (grifter, two-timing wife, rich husband).
One final note: I'd give the book four stars for the quality of writing, but that ending ...
Like he and Robert Parker were having a contest to see who could remove more edge from their writing, who could dull the blade more.
But then he writes for Hard Case and cranks out some of the most entertaining and well-written pulp books the label puts out.
GG is one of these, hardboiled shell with a pulpy inside that makes guys like Mickey Spillane remember the days.
A quick read that packs some punches without the tough guy hard-on stuff that won't tell you anything new about life but let's you see into someone else's for a bit while they duck in and out of alleys and other men's bedrooms.
Joe Marlin hops from town to town swindling bystanders and skipping out on hotel bills.
It sure beats working.
After trying to dig a golddigger, he jumps to a new location and steals some fancy baggage along the way with the initials L.K.B. He assumes the identity, if not the clothes, which appear to be tailored for a short man with a paunch.
But Joe is shocked to find a box full of heroin among L.K.B.'s effects, and even more shocked to find that his wife is such a willing conquest.
Mona is Joe's ideal and he decides that this woman is worth much more than just a one night stand, even if the price is murder.
From there I don't want to say to much because I don't want to give away any of the twist!
The book description as another reviewer has mentioned does give away one of the twist and I wish I had not even read that but it didn't ruin the book for me or anything.
The writing was spot on and there was not a lot of fluff, who did it or scene building just a lot of suspense and page turning.The book was first written in 1961 so keep that in mind when reading this book or you will get very confused.
I was very much in the mood for some hard boiled, 60s noir written in the 1st person, with wiseguys and dames, desperate Victory Girls, drugs, murder and a hell of a lot of scotch, bourbon and cigarettes and Grifter's Game has certainly scratched that itch.
It's not his own though.PACE=3: Slightly slow at first but builds to a slam-bang finish.PLOT=2: Basically, a "Kill my husband, please", plot.
Stock characters start to finish, only mildly interesting.PLACE=4: A good cross-country race that includes Miami, Vegas, and Tahoe and it seems the author has been to these places.
This road trip/chase sequence is the best part of the book.SUMMARY: My overall rating is 3.2.
This work is an improvement over Block's "Killing Castro".Killing Castro-2.4 starsGrifter's Game-3.2 starsLawrence Block author rating: 2.8 stars
OK, so it's not ULYSSES or THE GRAPES OF WRATH, but man-oh-man does GRIFTER'S GAME (previously published as MONA and SWEET SLOW DEATH) succeed at giving you everything you could reasonably want from a 60's pulp noir/thriller.
Author Lawrence Block always stays one step ahead of the reader, and he's a master of portraying shady characters in a way that makes them appealing and sympathetic.I consider GRIFTER'S GAME an inspired choice for launching the Hard Case Crime imprint, and I recommend all you crime fiction fans go get your hands on it.
That is, unless exciting cons, cold-blooded murder, sexy dames, surprise double-crosses, and deadly addictions aren't the sort of things you enjoy reading about.
Even back that far, closing in on 60 years ago, Block was a pro’s pro.Put differently, this is a conventional femme fatale/just-better-than-stupid male patsy story, but it’s so expertly done that it could serve as a textbook.
Joe considers that Mona may have been distracting him from coincidence, and Block runs the risk of making the same claim for himself.
Block implicitly compares himself to Hitchcock, and, again, he doesn’t embarrass himself with the claim.When Joe does see through it, though, he realizes he can’t imagine killing Mona, but he also can’t imagine living with her.
And I am told by friends that his stories featuring a hit-man called Keller are very good (but I've not yet ready any of them myself).
'Grifter's Game' is one of Block's earliest non-series novels.
The other fascinating thing about 'Grifter's Game' is the conclusion of the story, which is delightfully unexpected and which raises a number of interesting moral questions.
Written in an unfussy, readable style that had me turning the pages eagerly, 'Grifter's Game' is a very entertaining novel and is a good example of Lawrence Block's inventiveness and versatility as a crime writer.
Such a tendency to judge things based on their age is why books like Grifter's Game (an early effort by crime-writing veteran Lawrence Block) are so important: They're complex enough to force careful evaluation.Joe Marlin has known a lot of women in his twenty-eight years, with very profitable results.
It's a mutually enjoyable time, but there's one hitch: Mona wants to know why Joe has her husband's suitcase.Game was originally published in 1961, and even proponents of classic crime stories have to admit that much of it hasn't aged well.
