https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/54983.Oranges
What this means is: If you plant an orange seed, a grapefruit might come up.
In Florida, it is said that you can run over a California orange with a ten-ton truck and not even wet the pavement.-- A citrus fruit is, botanically, a berry.-- When you buy a lime to add to your gin and tonic it is generally seedless, which is certainly accommodating for the serious drinker.
Up from those lime seeds came sweet oranges trees, bitter orange trees, grapefruit trees, lemon trees, tangerines, limequats, citrons--and two seedlings which proved to be Persian Limes.-- The modern fruit we recognize as an orange almost surely developed in China.-- The word "orange" evolved from the Sanskrit.
First, I thought it was a new book.
Second, I thought it would be about California.I own a whole string of McPhee books, but lately my enthusiasm for his writing has been in need of a transfusion.
A new book seemed the thing to do it.
His ability to dig into something and come up with all kinds of interesting facts you didn’t even know you didn’t know.
You get done with this book and say "I just read an entire book about oranges?!"
Here, as he does with the rest of his writing, McPhee uses a simple subject to launch into a deep, almost meditative focus before swirling off to more rewarding digressions.
Bolivians don’t touch it at breakfast time, but they drink it steadily for the rest of the day.
People in Nepal almost never peel oranges, preferring to eat them in cut quarters, the way American athletes do.
The sour oranges of Afghanistan customarily appear as seasoning agents on Afghan dinner tables.
Squeezed over Afghan food, they cut the grease.
He turned around with a look of recognition and said to me, “You come from apple country.” In one sentence, he had defined the dimensions of his own world, the utterly parochial nature of it, its disciplined singleness. A brief but mildly interesting story of oranges. Their cultivation, their history, and their uses all get examined here. ---------------ANACHRONISMS---------------This book was written in the 1960s, and it’s interesting to compare then to now. For instance, McPhee notes that for
Eating a fresh orange is “old-fashioned.” Most people who consume oranges do so through frozen cans of orange juice concentrate.
Three times the author is given concentrate labeled “fresh orange juice” in stands in Florida.
He asks for fresh orange juice in restaurants in Florida, and none have it.
Or through non-concentrated orange juice.
Lots of restaurants sell fresh orange juice.
And I can’t imagine a Florida orange stand selling concentrate these days.
The colour of an orange depends not on ripeness but on temperature.
It turns orange because the weather gets cooler, as it does in, say, Florida or California in the winter.
The pages are filled with everything the average person would ever wish to know about the fruit, but it doesn't read like a textbook; on the contrary, it sweeps you up and doesn't set you back down until the end (which, I admit, was incredibly abrupt).
When I finished  Oranges,  I had a large dose of the familiar feeling that comes at the end of a really good book.
To have a really good book, in my opinion, it needs to flow, and McPhee understood that.
Somehow, he made a book about fruit read like a fantasy novel.
You may not know this about me but I have a fruit phobia. Yep. So this was an unusual (and big-boy brave) choice of book for me. I've never eaten an orange, or even held one. But reading about them didn't gross me out too much (admittedly citrus is pretty far down my hierarchy of fruit grossness), and this lovely book from 1966 was actually really interesting, had a casual charm and made excellent bedtime summer reading.
Frauen kommen nur ganz am Rande als leichtgläubige, dumme Supermarktkundinnen vor. Alle Interviewten, alle Erwähnten, alle handelnden Personen sind Männer. Aber so waren sie wohl, die 60er. Die Faktensammlung hätte mir vielleicht in Prä-Internet-Zeiten Freude bereitet, aber jetzt wirkt sie ein bisschen wie Wikipedia-Abschreibeliteratur.
Interesting if outdated read (published in 1967). I will say that it ended incredibly abruptly, but I definitely want to check out some more of McPhee's work. Excellent narrative nonfic.
They say a good writer can take anything as his subject, no matter how ordinary, and leave you wondering if you have ever looked at it before. McPhee took the simple household orange as his subject, intending to produce a one off article. Once he got going, his curiosity burned ever brighter - and his enthusiasm is contagious. The result was this book - a classic work of non-fiction, and a marvel of reportage. Coming from the country that gave the world Joseph Mitchell, Gay Talese, Joan Didion and Hunter S. Thompson, that is high praise indeed.
The book fills your brain with trivia and "did you know"s."The taste and aroma of oranges differ by type, season, county, state, and country, and even as a result of the position of the individual orange in the framework of the tree on which it grew.""Carvone, a synthetic spearmint oil which is used to flavor spearmint gum, is made from citrus peel oil."Originally published in 1967, McPhee caught the industry at a turning point where American consumers started to prefer orange juice concentrate over the fresh stuff.
i came across this book in a used bookshop many years ago and remembered it. i bought it recently and was unusually excited to read it. i now know more about oranges than is reasonable for the average human. but the beauty of a book such as this one is how it reminds you how much of the world is known to others and unknown to you. experts on oranges exist, and McPhee gives us ordinary people a glimpse into their world.
Beautifully written. Huge amount of fascinating information in a short book.Increased my knowledge about and love of oranges.Made me wonder what changes have taken place in the orange world since the book was originally written in the 60's.
Fabulous writing that documents the history of the orange and the impact of the citrus industry on Florida up to the 1960s, when this book was compiled from a series of essays written for THe New Yorker.
John McPhee is a national treasure. This enjoyable little book contains perhaps more than you ever wanted to know about oranges.
Excellent book with loads of facts you would never expect to find so fascinating. A lovely read
Further proof that John McPhee can make even the most mundane subjects completely engrossing.
Not only did I learn a ton about oranges and the odd ways in which they are grown (terms such as "bud union" and "nucellar seedling" have now been added to my vocabulary), but I also became acquainted with some very peculiar characters in Florida history.
I would have loved to learn more about the history of oranges in Asia, where the species originated, or even about the California industry.
i know so many things about oranges now
Ground fruit - the orange that one can reach and pick from the ground - is not as sweet as fruit that grows high on the trees.
Oranges grown on the south side of a tree are sweeter than oranges grown on the east or west sides and oranges grown on the north side are the least sweet of the lot....When [orange men] eat an orange, they snap out the long, thin blades of their fruit knives and peel it down, halfway, from the blossom end, which is always sweeter and juicier than the stem end.
I'm a big fan of McPhee.
"Oranges" is not his best book, and it sometimes fails to keep me engaged in his passionate curiosity about this fruit.
Nonetheless, McPhee maintains his usual brilliance in sparse, perfectly selected prose.
Bing Crosby investing in oranges?
Orange seeds are incestuous?
Reading "Oranges" will transform you into the person who bores everyone at a party with endless references to trivia about oranges.
McPhee's vignettes introduce us to the likes of orange picker, citrus scientist, and orange baron, and their respective quirks.
Your morning glass of juice will never be the same after reading "Oranges."
Of course, I learned a tremendous amount about oranges.
Who else could make an entire book about oranges so fascinating?
In one part, it discusses the taste of orange juice, and how every housewife in America wants every box of orange juice to taste exactly the same, and how tricky that is.
Those of us who know about food, know that taste can be influenced by everything the fruit, its tree, and its land comes into contact with, and that getting the same taste every time isn't natural, in the truest sense of the word.
It's a book about oranges. Not the color, not the Protestants in Ireland, not the royal house of the Netherlands--it's about fruit. John McPhee wrote a 168-page book about a fruit you can buy at the grocery store for 99 cents, and he made it fascinating. Strongly recommended.
It would be interesting if McPhee were to revisit this book. Since the sixties, much have the industry must have changed to accommodate a growing demand for fresh orange juice, twelve months a year; and an influx of oranges from other countries.
This book was like a refreshing glass of fresh squeezed orange juice--wholesome and satisfying, and just the right amount. Infused with bits of humor and history, pleasant to read. Although at the end, you can't help but think to yourself, "I just read an entire book on oranges!"
This book was short so I managed to finish it but it was a close thing. The information that wasn't outdated was overshadowed by the author's horrible misogyny and racism.
His prose is fine stodgy, elitist white-guy writing. I learned a few things about Florida oranges.
I love this man."My own belief is that science erases what was previously true.
But in weaving together the history, myth, manufacturing, magic, and business of oranges, McPhee takes us to places that we can hardly remember or begin to imagine.
And, now that I live in Florida, I especially appreciate his portraits of the bumbling white settlers of the Indian River, the burned out New Englanders who were the earliest citrus growers on the Ridge, and the rise of the science of the orange industry in the state.
I can't verify that, but whether or not it's true McPhee is still a master of the genre.

Technically, I read a paperback with the bold orange hardback image on the cover.
Quite an intriguing overview of (mostly) Florida orange industry history and agriculture.
It's nicely couched in world history of oranges and with comparisons to CA orchards ('groves' are in FL).
The tension between oranges as a giant agri-business vs.
oranges as a local/regional lifestyle makes for a nice narrative driver.
At times it reads a bit like a series of essays/articles and there are related redundancies.
As ever, McPhee meets some great characters (real people with character) and features their quirks and larger contributions to his theme quite well.
I have long been fascinated by oranges (ever since spending a few hours one afternoon wiki-surfing articles about citrus fruits), so when I came across this little book, it went immediately onto my to-read list.
What I didn't know is that John McPhee is a pioneer of the 'creative non-fiction' genre.
Crafted is a good word to describe his style.
You can tell that he cut and carved and roughed and rearranged until the words came out just right.
It makes for an enjoyable read, and I learned a lot about oranges while I was at it.
