https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/268604.Portrait_in_Death
J.D. Robb at her best!There are so many totally emotional scenes between Roarke, who is definitely not at his perfect best, and Eve, who steps up to be the best wife she can.
Tissues anyone?Then there are all the in jokes like hidden chocolate bars and Eve's twitchy eye whenever Peabody puts the words sex and McNab into the same sentence.Of course there is the usual banter.
Peabody and Eve get most of the good lines in this one, although everyone is a comedian from time to time.
Going to sound like a broken record here soon. Yes, I loved it. There were some stark revelations here that left one of the characters reeling. The mystery element was well plotted. No, didn't guess the "bad guy." Eve is in full force as usual. She loves her job. Roarke has his own businesses to run but he is always there to help Eve in any way he can. And ease her tension ... with some hot sex!! "I couldn't fall out of love with you if I fell all the way to hell." Emotion was storming into his
Roarke has his own businesses to run but he is always there to help Eve in any way he can.
I like his poetry too and have visited his resting place many times in Drumcliffe, Sligo.A few bits and bobs annoyed me (0h, here she goes again!!!) - the accents on some of the Irish words.
OUT-WORN heart, in a time out-worn,	 Come clear of the nets of wrong and right;	 Laugh heart again in the gray twilight,	 Sigh, heart, again in the dew of the morn.
I love an asshole alpha male.
I wouldn’t advertise that if I were you… Poor soul. The killer, I mean. Yes, it was really sad to discover who and why the killer killed! Even Eve was almost touched!Where I was touched is Rourke’s reunion with his family!!! I actually cried! I was considering planting a cherry tree on my balcony!!I was also chewing my nail when Truheart was in danger! And to read about Baxter’s distress!!! WOW!!!Another winner here!!!
Anybody else cried during reading of this book (or listening the audiobook) or was it only me? Because my god, Roarke's past made me cry like a baby... When he found out the truth, my heart broke for him... Ugh 😢😢😢 Ps. I listened the Audiobook. ;) "I couldn't fall out of love with you if I fell all the way to hell." Emotion was storming into his eyes ... ❤
This book had so much Roarke that my swoon-meter almost broke!It was a blood-boiling, heart-melting swoon-a-thon!Also, Eve was actually a good wife and put Roarke above her job for a few minutes.
That was surprisingly nice to see.
Usually it's all about Eve, she treats him pretty crappy, and he loves her like chocolate.
We need to see some reciprocation once in a while.But, as for the mystery?
It was a lot about photography which bores the crap out of me.
But, all of the stuff on Roarke, Peabody, and Truheart made up for my hatred of photography, so I am standing behind my 5-star rating.
Rereading for buddy read - June 2017One of my Top 5 In Death books...I've read this one several times, yet it still tugs at my heart-strings. Will try to return with review.
Real chocolate?""What?" Panicked, Eve shoved the hand behind her back.
And it's mine.""Just let me have a little—" Peabody's gasp was shocked and heartfelt as Eve stuffed the remaining chunk in her mouth.
And delicious," Eve added with her mouth full.
"While others, who will remain nameless, were stuffing their face with candy, I diligently pursued an angle in the investigation that I believe might be of some interest to the incredibly selfish candy-hog primary.""It was dark chocolate.""You're a mean person and will probably go to hell.""I can live with that."[I would have done the same thing as Dallas =))]
My favorites include :- Naked in Death (Roarke and Eve's first meeting at the curch, any readers will not forget about that moment.
Then, Eve had case like usual and that when Roarke finally knowing the ugly truth behind his past.
Beside readers will know more about Roarke's past and the truth behind his childhood, we will see he's drunk himself silly in this book *grin*.
That's why I love them both and I know readers's reason to love Eve-Roarke are the same with me =)Note : This book win AAR 2003 for The Best Hero.
4.75⭐
Eve Dallas is once again trying to hunt down a serial killer, one who is targeting beautiful young people and taking their portraits before and after death.
She also has problems to deal with at home with Summerset having broken his leg just as he was due to take his three week vacation and Roarke dealing with an astounding revelation about his mother and origins in Ireland.
Everyone is out of sorts and Roarke and Eve have a serious fight that will require some patience and understanding on both sides.
I didn't really like this, I enjoy it when the killer has some weird twisted motive but he still has his sanity. When the killer is literally insane it tends to leave a bad taste in my mouth because there is no area of safety in insanity.I really like Roarke's story arc in this one, I was really happy with the reaction he got from Sinead especially with all the terrible things that has happened to him.
Suspense 4.5 stars / Romance 4 starsI quote my dear friend Ann Lou: it was a sad read. The victims were so young, so innocent. It broke my heart.As always brilliantly solved by Eve. This woman is my idol!Romance was a big part of this story. Roarke learned about his real mother. I didn't like how he pushed Eve away, but I somehow got why he did it. He was cruel to his wife. Eve was again a cleverer one in their relationship, I adored her.
Eve has come a lot of way past the cold, anti-social, anti-human person she was in the beginning of the series.
Oh, she's still driven and dedicated to the office, but I can't help but think that it's mostly because of her relationship with Roarke but other people in her life helped as well, Peabody and Nadine and Dr. Mira...
And what went through with Roarke and his personal revelations was heart wrenching to watch and Eve being first a wife and then a cop, left me in awe of them....
This one's very sad to read.
I mean, all murders are But this one got deeper to me than the rest.
There was no brutality in the murders just a twisted, mentally ill killer who thinks he's preserving their youth, vitality and energy by killing them.
By immortalizing them.
Eve is distracted and off because worried about Roarke.
She's still learning about the rules of marriage and stuff.
Roarke.
He's not his perfect self in this one.
A secret from his past came to light and he didn't know how to deal with it.
Roarke and Eve are good for each other.
And while Eve is busily off tracking down a serial killer, Roarke learns a devastating truth about his past.JD Robb continues to march on with her crazily addicting series featuring the tough as nails bitch cop, Eve Dallas and her seriously delicious billionaire husband Roarke.The mystery/slash police procedure in this book is pretty standard fare for this series.
This installment had some excellent meeting of the minds between these two.But most of all, the part that made this book for me was5) Roarke learning about his past.
All along in this series, we've been watching as Eve learned dribs and drabs about her past.
Portrait in Death is one of my favourites in the ID series. Roarke learns about his family, his real mother actually and he returns to Ireland to find answers.The killer is a pathetic individual that is tough to detest - but murder is never an answer.I like some of the side characters, in particular Dirk Hastings, the photographer or is that portographer :) Sadly we learn about Crack's sister and his real name - very emotional part of the book - one of many in this one.5 stars and 2 thumbs up - great read.
More than once.Eve has a her hands full in PiD; there is a serial killer on the loose, and something is very wrong with Roarke.The murderer is killing young adults, those that are full of life, those that are good and innocent.
He doesn't process the information well, pushing Eve away as he tries to deal with it on his own.Can I just say, I pretty much read this series for Roarke.
Though I love seeing his softer side at times, he can say and do the most swoon-worthy things for his Eve, Roarke lost something for me in this one.
Would Eve make it in time to prevent their death?
4.5 stars - Romantic Suspense/Futuristic/Crime Thriller "The love was naked on him when he saw it was you."
5 stars. I really enjoyed this amazing addition to this awesome series. I loved the focus on Roarke's past. I admit that I did shed a tear or two. The crime was totally twisted and so original it was kind of scary. Eve was fab as usual although I wanted to yell at her for how she treated Nadine in this one. And, I gasped out loud when the killer was revealed! Thank goodness I'm not a detective because I would have never figured this one out.
Portrait in Death3.5 StarsFollowing a tip, Eve Dallas discovers the body of a young woman in a dumpster and begins investigating a series of murders in which the victims are all students whose bodies have been staged and photographed.
At the same time, Eve must deal with an injured Summerset as well as Roarke, who has become troubled and distant.
The murder investigation is one of the weakest in the series.
In contrast, the character development is excellent, especially for Roarke as he struggles to reconcile his feelings after discovering some disturbing information about his past.
This story was pretty emotional to read. Another great book in a great series.
Uau! Adorei! J.D.Robb não desilude e continua a surpreender. É sem duvida a minha série favorita!
As much as the plot was interesting and a bit crazy, what I loved most was the writing surrounding Roarke.
We get a deeper look into his past.
And while his story has always touched my heart, the part of his past that is revealed here is heartbreaking as well as comforting.
Eve's emotions and her strength was heartening.
I adore their relationship.All my favorite characters were present too.
Beyond Roarke and Eve we have Peabody, McNabb, Mavis, Nadine and Summerset.
Each one of these guys’ relationship with Eve is interesting.
Cinayetin kurgusundan çok Roarke'in gerçek annesi ile ilgili hikayesi ilgimi çekti...Genel olarak güzeldi ama finale kadar yeterince heyecanlı değildi..Finali iyidir....4.5...
Three weeks.”Lt. Eve Dallas is waiting the shortly-to-start vacation of Summerset, Roarke's majordomo, when all her plans were ruined by the cat.
Eve Dallas and her team must start to investigate.
His investigation stirs up a lot of emotion, and Eve and Roarke are in for some rocky times in their marriage.
Can Eve and her team close the case and find out who did those portraits in death?(view spoiler)[When Eve didn’t rise, Peabody walked over, poured two cups of water.
Little birds flying around his head, except it’s too sad and too awful for little birds.”“Sometimes, you do the job, you close the case, but the door just doesn’t shut for you.
Eve landing in the field of cows (you're telling me) and Roarke's reaction to her (you must really love me) and Roarke's Aunt's reaction to all of it...priceless!
Possibly my favorite scene...but it is so hard to choose.
Loved the advice and counsel that Eve got from Feeney, Mavis, and Mira during Roarke's "breaking of the marriage rule concerning telling your life partner important stuff." Also, who else thinks that Eve still doesn't know what Cribbage really is?:) Lots of tension at the end which served to bring the case back to the forefront after Eve and Roarke were back in sync.
There are so many great scenes in this book.
Where do I begin?
I had forgot that Patrick Roarke shows up in one of Eve's dreams.
I love a killer in plain sight.
I may have a wee beef as to why facial recognition was not used when they had the killers name, but I will forgive JD as there is just so much to love in Portrait.
Peabody gets some great lines and really comes into her own as her relationship post Purity injuries to McNabb solidifies.
Add one of my favourite action filled endings and Portrait remains in my top ten favourites list.
It was refreshing to see his perspective while our favorite chocolate-loving cop Eve Dallas was solving a case.
Anyway, we saw a different side of Roarke and hopefully there will be more visits to Ireland to showcase his new darling family.The case was photography-heavy, considering the title was Portrait in Death.
It was also interesting that all of the victims were college age like myself and they showcased different personalities of that crowd.
I didn't guess the murderer, which was nice, and the author decided to make him mentally unwell, which felt like a cop-out.
Louise is one of my favorite reoccuring side characters and I'm happy whenever she pops up.
It starts with Eve jumping up and down with joy because her husband's majordomo is going on a 3 week vacation.
He has his hands full juggling his schedule around and taking care of Summerset.Eve reluctantly takes personal time to do her 'wifely' duties and support her husband.
But Roarke has something he needs to see to in Ireland, ditching Eve in the last minute.
This time taking Feeney's advice, Eve helps him out.
Roarke has never been more grateful to see Eve. I was almost sure Roarke wasn't going to be a civilian consultant this time.
