https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9567.Half_Asleep_in_Frog_Pajamas
Separate from my myriad secret addictions was my very public addiction to Tom Robbins books. When I was diagnosed with cancer in 1996, I called my mother. I said, "I have cancer." She paused briefly and then said, "I know what you need. You need a new Tom Robbins' novel."I cannot claim conclusively that Tom Robbins' writing can cure cancer, but here I am free since 1997.That's all I'm saying.And I got that book signed, too.
Each of them is fantastic in its own way, although there are some consistencies in his style that are fantastic throughout his books -- his completely mind-blowing use of language in the service of crazy descriptions, analogies, and similes, and his Crazy Theory, that point of each book that would in a more traditional author be the denouement, but in the Robbins oeuvre is where he unveils whatever crackpot (and compelling, if you're predisposed to such thoughts, as I am) theory he's holding on to at the time.Of the books I've read, Another Roadside Attraction stands out for its audacity; Jitterbug Perfume for the incredible story and writing (I still remember this line from the intro, something that is nearly unprecedented for yours truly, Mr. Swiss Cheese head: "[They] say a story that begins with a beet will end with the devil; that is a risk we will have to take."Half Asleep in Frog Pajamas, however, is remarkable for two reasons: the "Tom Robbins' Crazy Theory" of the book is both the broadest and craziest of them all, and his use of the second person is a challenging, compelling and ultimately rewarding technique.
Μια αθεράπευτα φιλόδοξη χρηματομεσίτρια στο Σιάτλ, μια κλέφτρα μαϊμού που αναγεννήθηκε χάρη στην αγάπη του Χριστού, η θεραπεία του καρκίνου από τα βάθη της ανατολής ως κλυσμα, εξωγήινα αμφίβια που μεταλαμπαδεύουν τον πολιτισμό στις αφρικανικές φυλές του πλανήτη μας, γέλιο, ανέμελη σοβαρότητα και μια αίσθηση ότι διάβασες κάτι πολύ τρελό και ταυτόχρονα πολύ σοβαρό.
Δεν ξέρω πώς το κάνει ο Τομ Ρόμπινς και πραγματικά αδιαφορώ πλήρως για τα αστέρια, αν θα βάλω ένα παραπάνω σε εκείνο ή στο άλλο του βιβλίο, αν κάποιο ήταν καλύτερο ή χειρότερο, αν και ποιο μου άρεσε περισσότερο.
Το να γραψεις μια κριτικη για βιβλιο του Ρομπινς ειναι πολυ δυσκολο.να περιγραψεις την πλοκη?
Ειναι σαν αυτες τις epic fail στιγμες που λες ενα αστείο με το οποιο κανεις δε γελα και προσπαθεις να διασωσεις την αξιοπρεπεια σου λεγοντας "επρεπε να ησουν εκει να το δεις για να γελασεις".
Αυτο συμβαινει με τα βιβλια του Ρομπινς.αν δεν τα εχεις διαβασει, ο,τι και να σου πουν ειναι λιγο ή ακομη χειροτερα μπορει και να σε αποτρεψει..οποτε το μονο που μπορω να πω ειναι οτι αυτο το βιβλιο με ταξιδεψε στο περιεργο αλλα και μαγικο συμπαν του τρελο-Ρομπινς και το απηλαυσα παρα πολυ.μπαινει στα αγαπημενα μου του συγγραφεα.
This was my final attempt to enjoy a Tom Robbins book.
Sadly, once you have read actual literature, you realize that this is garbage.Although Tom tries to be esoteric and witty, it just isn't very good.
Now try using them constructively instead of peppering your novels with hundreds of idiotic similes and analogies.I think Robbins is trying to write in a humorous style, but frankly the only laugh I got was when I found the original sales receipt tucked into the used copy I bought and realized that someone had paid full hardback price for this turd of a novel.
There’s still a curious cancer treatment, a bunch of overly rich and rowdy teenagers, celestial interference, a sex offender, disappearing frogs, a transfixing Van Gogh sketch, aliens, and more to come.“Half Asleep” is at its riotous best in its first half, when Robbins gives free reign to his limitless imagination, and the result is a philosophical-comedy mind-warp that could give Vonnegut’s masterful “Breakfast of Champions” a run for its money … until the second half of the novel devolves into a talky jumble of rambling philosophical dialogue that does more to annoy the reader than to enlighten him.
This is a strangely entertaining book featuring a likable character, but what I liked most about it was the author's unique writing style and creativity.
In case you didn't pick up on it, my "Full Disclosure" shelf is reserved for those books I find embarrassing to post about - for one reason or another.
However, if I'm going to make the jump to share what I've read over the past years, I figure I may as well be honest.This was actually my favorite of the "Tom Robbins" phase.
Now, I hate him.
It's always the same fucking story with this guy: down-and-out lady meets mystery man who imparts wisdom, solves problems, and then does her - in very explicit love scenes.
Detailed sex and mystical universe shit boggles the mind when you're fifteen - but at this point?
Tom Robbins’ Half Asleep in Frog Pajamas is certainly unique; first, because it is written both in the present tense and in second person.
It is also unique because of the unexpectedly radical theories it presents.The main character is Gwen Mati, a young broker with high ambitions living in Seattle, currently experiencing anguish due to the stock market crash.
The following excerpt nicely demonstrates Gwen’s philosophy (or perhaps lack thereof) and the impact of reading a book in second person:You read somewhere that in Botswana, the world “pula” means both “money” and “hello.” You like that arrangement.
For a moment I honestly believed the book was disgusting, depraved or just plain rude, before I realized what he actually meant.As it turns out, the first time I attempted to read this novel my initial fears weren’t too far off.
I started off wanting to beat the holy hell out of Gwen, just as I did last time, but pushing through this novel, page by page, I was able to witness her transformation from a completely self-obsessed, arrogant bitch to a woman who might have her heart in the right place even if she’s a bit on the narcissistic side.
simply horrendous. word salad at its most putrid. i began two of his novels, and could bear to finish neither. tom robbins=literary dysentery. please, sir, i beseech you, nevermore even a single sapling felled for your shlock.
("If a box of Hostess Twinkies could talk, they'd have your voice.")So, YOU, Gwendolyn Mattie, on the Easter Weekend following the worst day of your life, have lured many of your clients into some very bad investments just before the terrible market crash.
Can you leverage your good looks, your growing relationship with Diamond, the talents of Andre, a strange deck of tarot cards, and even the mysteries of Timbuktu to save your career?
Gwendolyn is enticing and intriguing, Andre is a kick, Diamond, though (when he isn't putting it to Gwen) can be quite boring as he drones on and on about the Dog Star, interstellar intelligence, the BOZO, and Timbuktu.
A terse review.
First book I've read by Tom Robbins.
Thumbs up, but a bit over-written.
Main character, not that likeable.
Monkey characters fix a lot of problems in fiction.
Like the plot.
Haven't actually finished the book, but wanted to get the review out of the way.
15 more pages to go.
Somehow, I think I know the ending.
Cheers to the coworker who let me borrow this book.
Written in 1994 -- reminds me of the 90s.
For some reason, this book makes me want to read Nick Hornby.
Don't know where that came from!
End terse review now?
Credo di non essere più in grado di dare un giudizio obiettivo su quest'uomo.
Il fatto è che...adoro il suo stile, non c'è niente da fare.
La trama (per quanto meno arzigogolata che in altri suoi libri e abbastanza seguibile, anche se sempre assurda e piena di colpi di tacco - e di genio) passa quasi in secondo piano, perché le parole si susseguono con un gusto talmente piacevole che è quasi come gustarsi una tazza di cioccolata calda speziata.
L'uso che sa fare delle parole e delle figure retoriche è tanto affascinante da coprire quasi il contenuto, che pure c'è, ed è sempre interessante.
There is an electrical problem in the women's room. It is as black as outer space in there, and the light switch flips up and down uselessly, like the lips of the President.
I just re-read this book after like 10 years and I loved it so much more.
like the whole subject of biodiversity and ecological stuff that I probably didn't really notice before..And I noticed this time around that most of it seems like Terrence McKenna was in the room when it was written..
I really needed a good dose of all that don't fall for the bullshit and it's not what it seems to be goodness that this book delivers..
but, Tom and Terrence and many others describe it better so I'll leave it to them!
I admire that the author FORCED me to relate with the main character by writing in second person-clever-but it was also annoying to read a book which is telling me things like "you are annoyed by everything" (not a direct quote but pretty much sums up the entire beginning of the book) when I know that I am very much unlike this character.
The main character, Gwen, starts out by being a money-obsessed and somewhat incompetent broker who everyone dislikes.
The only character development is that the main character goes from a money-crazed broker to a person who committed the list of events stated above.
To drip into a Tom Robbins novel is like evaluating a Rorschach Test.
Gwen Mati isn’t ready to tap out just yet, but she’s getting pretty desperate.
The missing ape is more of a foil and the hunt for Q-Jo (the 300-pound Swami and Gwen’s “Best Friend”) takes a backseat for the burgeoning relationship between Gwen and the semi-sleazy, erstwhile stockbroker-cum-spiritualist, Larry Diamond.
Robbins paces story into micro-chunks of time, but you never get the sense that he is rattling off feckless minutia.
He’s extremely adroit at holding your interest because there is always an important hanging thread between sections.
The book was interesting in the way it was organized.
As for the story-line, reading about Q-Jo and Andre were the more interesting parts.
I didn't much care about the stock-broker talk though, even though it was such a major part of the book.
Although it is probably my own fault for not getting it, I felt like I could have skipped over it and not miss much.The only real downside to the book was the amount of description he would use.
They were interesting to a point, and then after a while I caught myself just thinking "okay, get on with the rest of the story.
I think I liked this book. I really have no idea. I would want someone else to read it and tell me what they thought. Right now I am bewildered, annoyed, and smiley all at the same time. The perspective Robbins uses is really unique to any book I've ever read and so is the rest of the book. weird, but not in a gross or filthy way, unless you're really prudish, funny, and an ending that'll leave you wondering if this book was any good. 5 stars..... maybe.
"Ci sono molti modi, mia cara, di rendere vittima qualcuno. Il più insidioso è di convincerlo che è una vittima."
Jeden víkend ze života právě zkrachovalé burzovní makléřky. Klasický Robbins.
Instead, after reading "Half Asleep In Frog Pajamas," one is left with an entertaining yet hardly engrossing narrative that teases the reader with a promise that is never fulfilled, and a set-up that never pays off.As much as I did enjoy experiencing the storied weekend journey of one money-minded, materialistic Gwendolyn Mati, and her search for her boyfriend Belford's money, as her search for her lost obese friend Q-Jo, and Gwendolyn's strange yet not so surprising romance with one post-autistic genius named Larry Diamond, I felt more frustrated than enraptured by the twists and turns of the tale.
Love Tom Robbins' style. He uses every literary device in the book (excuse pun, Tom) with great humour and philosophical reflection. I always learn something new and true about history!
A half-filippina wannabe stockmarket hotshot, a born-again macaque (monkey) which belongs to your serious Christian boyfriend, an ex-stockmarket whizz turned burned-out rocker, a tarot reader friend the size of Jabba the Hut who goes missing, the Safe Sex Rapist - these are just some of the unforgettable crazy characters in Tom Robbins's novel Half Asleep in Frog Pajamas.Written in the mid-90s when Japan's immense real-estate bubble was just beginning to plummet and enter the meltdown stage, and the 'greed is good' creed of Wall Street etc.
I'm glad I moved it to the top of my pile though, as the head trip that comprised the story was definitely worth exploring.Tom Robbins is not an author to read if you need your books to start at point A and end at point Z and progress in a logical and linear fashion with no tangents, tightly packaged and locked in, following a standard formula and complete with a happily ever after.
These things are all well and good but are not present in a Tom Robbins novel.Reading his work is a lot like using the spin the bottle method of picking turns on a road trip.
a friend was reading for the first time and that presented me with a good opportunity for a re-read.i'm sure it's no secret that i'm crazy for tom robbins.
the weaving in of astronomy, astrology, and african culture all to create this ridiculous (in the good way) book.and yet...my re-read revealed this one to be a bit over the top--like robbins' crazy period (it was brief--fierce invalids home from...maintains his absurd plotlines but was much more controlled, i thought).
so i'll have to remove it from it's pedestal as my favorite tom robbins' book.
Another fantastical literary trip from Tom Robbins!Seattle stockbroker Gwen Mati feels as though her life is falling apart when all of a sudden the stock market takes a turn for the worse on the Thursday before Easter.
No description is put forth without wild analogies and vibrantly unexpected language making each line an absolute pleasure to read.Somewhere in between a story about a jade-cancer-curing-enema-pump and African mythology, Robbins manages to throw in a bit of a moral if you will as the main character, Gwen, must fight between the (relative) 'security' of her job in the world of finance, and the whimsical 'do as you please' philosophy put forth by her new friend, Larry Diamond.
There was just too much about this book I didn't like to attempt to read on further.
First off I don't care for the author's writing style whatsoever.
The further into the book I read the more annoyed I got with his descriptions.
(view spoiler)[ She's a shallow, whiny, money hungry girl who's only concern seemed to be tearing apart the people who don't fit into her ideals.
It's pretty much impossible for me to continue reading a book if I don't like the main character.
In this case I could have cared less what happened to her.
You mean that our intimacy isn't likely to yield a dividend.
I hoped you might have a watt or two more light in your bulb than those poor toads who took on romance as an investment, like waterfront property or municipal bonds.
Would you complain because a beautiful sunset doesn't have a future or a shooting star a pay off?
Passion isn't a path through the woods.
Passion is the woods.
Collisions don't much lend themselves to secure futures, but the act of colliding is hard to beat for interest.
