https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1448527.The_Secret_Of_The_Rosary
This time, although I still didn’t need any reasons (to pray the rosary or pray it well) the vignettes were encouraging in showing the commonality of our struggles to remain faithful to a lifetime of prayer.
We’re encouraged to see our prayers as lovely flowers we can present to Our Lady to decorate the Heavenly Gardens.
Although called, The Secret of the Rosary, there are no real secrets aside from the power, beauty and simplicity of this ancient prayer.
The following paragraph from the 47th Rose summarizes why you should/shouldn't read this book:"[I]f you want to lead a fashionable life and belong to the world- by this I mean if you do not mind falling into mortal sin from time to time and then going to Confession, and if you wish avoid conspicuous sins which the world considers vile and yet at the same time commit 'respectable sins'- then, of course, there is no need for you to say so many prayers and Rosaries.
I have a greater understanding of the depth of the Rosary, and I probably will be saying it more often. It's a motivation, not a Magic Bullet to find the time, unfortunately; that's not its point. A person still needs to adjust their priorities. This little volume encourages one to do just that.
Beautiful story regarding the power of the Rosary and how much the Church honors, respects, reveres Mary!
Did you know she is the one person the Devil fears the most?
The Devil doesn't want you to know that she is his #1 human enemy.
Since Christians have eternal life, Mary and the Saints are not dead.
If you ask people in your Church, friends and family to pray for you, why not also ask Mary and the Saints?
They are saying, "That person has asked me to ask you for help.
- Help them Father!"
Very powerful exhortation from this small book to love and pray the Rosary.
Once I finished this book, I ended up reciting the mysteries of the Rosary for long hours daily.
I was even motivated by love for Jesus and Mary to add Luminous mysteries in my Rosary even though Saint Louis de Montfort recommended 15 decades.
20 decades of the Rosary (Joyful, Sorrowful, Glorious and Luminous mysteries) could last for two hours if contemplation and meditation are included.
I would not mind reading this book again if I were to find my enthusiasm for the Rosary cool down.
father montfort suggests on page 92, don't forget to ask for special graces, and pause, slow down when praying the rosary.This was a summary of good advice.
To critic the book, I don't mind entering into montfort's dimension, therein, a spiritual dimension, even though the criticism is sometimes out dated.
how does the advice work for me?
perhaps, helping me knowing to pray often; my dimension has stretched to how many times I pray, the Ava Maria , on the awakening hour in the morning, at driving to work, to bed time.
This can be relaxing, even when busy, using pause and relax...it all adds up.
this books was really good and very enlighting i learned a lot about the rosary and how important it really is. I would really recommend this book to anyone who wanted to find their spiritual path. It teaches many things and how much our beloved Holy Mother of God loves and cares for us. It shows us how much she can do for us if we only ask for it with complete love, faith, and devotion.
This book was critical in helping me understand the history, reasons, and importance of the Holy Rosary. If you have any hesitations or questions about the value of meditating on the mysteries of the Lord in this manner, I highly recommend that you read. Outstanding book!Highly recommended for those wanting to grow in their spiritual life and those with questions about the Rosary.
A wonderful small glimpse into the Catholic life of the 17th Century. A very fast read focused on converting the original readers to praying the Rosary (somewhat outdated to modern sensibilities). But the overall theme is true: that the Rosary is the most focused and preferred devotion to Mary, and its effectiveness lies in the simplicity of its two main prayers, the Our Father, and Hail Mary.
I recommend this book to anyone that wants to learn more about Catholcism and the importance and beautiful benefits of praying the Rosary. Highly Recommended!!!!!
This book has kind of lit me on fire though, not just because of how it explains the benefits of praying the rosary ( and there are a LOT), but also because of the fact that it shows how it can be accessible to average people like myself.
It's kind of like a small child who comes to their parents with a scribbled drawing.
If we just start out small eventually we will be happily and devotedly offering up rosaries to Our Lady!
When I started reading the book I managed to squeeze out a decade a day and now, I'm getting out five whole mysteries with a decent amount of consistency.
Can't recommend this book more to anyone who wishes to unlock the mysteries of the rosary! Padre Pio wrote of the rosary that it is THE "weapon" against the evil one. Once you read and enjoy this book's insights written by an ardent lover and defender of the Virgin Mary, a beautiful devotion that I can recommend is the 54 day rosary novena, which brought great blessings into my life and will bring blessings into your life too.
This book is a well organized book, it takes you through the Historical and Spiritual Significance of the Holy Rosary. It was a pleasure to read to read, and if anyone asks me what is a good book on the Rosary I would probably recommend this short book, now if I were to join this book with the Papal Marian Encyclicals and Writings you would have a formidable force for understanding the Holy Rosary and sharpen your Devotion to this Powerful Sacramental.
It's a great spiritual read that will help you gain a lot of insight on the beauty and depth of the rosary. I am an avid devotee to the rosary, but this has touched me on so many more levels. I would like to purchase this book in bulks and distribute, because everyone deserves to have access about this book and KNOW about it. It's a short read, but you won't want to read it quickly. I just finished it, but I would like to read it again.
I seem to recall that I had a copy of this years before I became Catholic, along with a little booklet about the Mass. After I converted I bought several books about the rosary but this was the one that meant the most to me. The size of this book is small. The wealth of material for meditation is vast. A book that repays repeated readings over the years.
Super concise, to the point, yet uber inspiring read. Practical yet so critical... so marvelous. Someone told me I would never regret reading this book, and I don't. St. Louis de Montfort is the best. I think this is even better than his True Devotion, and I was absolutely blown away by that.
Wow, St. Louis de Monfort, you were one feisty, feisty individual... so that's pretty great. Meanwhile, my reading experience here found this book intermittently dated-ish and timeless, confusing and crystal clear, incredibly helpful/beautiful and yet losing me at times, so basically, a fair depiction of life and religion in general. I suspect it will be better yet upon subsequent readings.
A most pious preaching of the holy Rosary, with the various stories and traditions connected with it since the Dominican missions of the thirteenth centuries. Recommended to all Catholics, indeed to all Christians. Pick up your rosaries. All fifteen mysteries, as and when possible.
This is a master piece. In this book, the role of Mary, the Queen of heaven and Earth is displayed. Also to see is the effect of being a Heretic. Heretics are possessed by demons as is well demonstrated in the book. Just get it and read, it says more than i've done
Louis de Montfort's classic pamphlet provides a window into the historical and mystical background to praying the Rosary. Necessary reading for all who want to understand this crucial aspect of Catholic devotion and belief.
This book has such beautiful illustrations and lovely writing. It helped me get comfortable with ritual when I was younger, and now ritual is such a huge part of my life. The images and prayers helped me so much to focus my sadness when my mom died. I adore this book.
eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeethis is how i pray my rosary now v. v. good.eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee
Approachable from any literate age group. Simple, insightful. Gives insight into the true cause of the black death.
Inspired me to pray the rosary on a regular basis, would highly recommend. The stories in there are just beautiful and amazing.
A nice small book that helps to pray the Rosary. It is very small and short but basically covers all the aspects needed to pray the Rosary.
I have this sitting next to my bed. Skyler loves looking at the cover too. I swear that kid is gonna be Catholic, I keep telling Britney. He's mesmerized by pictures of the Virgin Mary.
Wasn't expecting the miracle histories, but they're interesting nonetheless. Glad they mentioned the problem of being distracted by the monotony of the prayers, that happens to me a lot. Wish it would have touched more on this, the mindfulness of meditating on mysteries seemed to be rushed toward the end.
Love this book.
The best book on the Rosary!
One of the best Marian books out there, along with St. Louis de Montfort's other book, True Devotion to Mary.
