https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/553243.The_Seven_Valleys_and_the_Four_Valleys
I need to read it over and over again.
I am reading, and have read this book over and over and over, and constantly find new ways of understanding life. It is definitely my favorite book. It is about "the seven stages the soul must traverse" to reach perfection. To help in understanding the book, I find Towards the Summit of Reality, by Julio Savi, an indispensable guide and introduction.And again, after finishing it this time, still find it excellent reading.Always on my list to read again.
This is my favorite of all of Baha'u'llah's writings. I've worn out several copies and given away several more. Finally gotten smart and have a hardbound copy for devotions and a paperback that goes everywhere with me. Every time I read the Seven Valleys I get so much more out of it—insights and epiphanies as well as songs. The language is the language of the Poet, the result is absolute clarity.
“One must judge of search by the standard of the Majnun of Love. It is related that one day they came upon Majnun sifting the dust, and his tears flowing down. They said, "What doest thou?" He said, "I seek for Layli." They cried, "Alas for thee! Layli is of pure spirit, and thou seekest her in the dust!" He said, "I seek her everywhere; haply somewhere I shall find her." Yea, although to the wise it be shameful to seek the Lord of Lords in the dust, yet this betokeneth intense ardor in searchi
Layli is of pure spirit, and thou seekest her in the dust!" He said, "I seek her everywhere; haply somewhere I shall find her."	Yea, although to the wise it be shameful to seek the Lord of Lords in the dust, yet this betokeneth intense ardor in searching.
"Whoso seeketh out a thing with zeal shall find it.”	The true seeker hunteth naught but the object of his quest, and the lover hath no desire save union with his beloved.
I just reread this after reading a collection of Rumi poems for the first time. While reading Rumi, I was reminded of these tablets over and over, and then had to go back to read them again. The symbols and iconic Persian stories that this book has in common with Rumi had a new dimension to them this time around. I feel like I got more out of it than I have before.Anyway, it's a wonderful little book, very much in the tradition of Sufi mystics, pulling on that tradition. But of course there's a lot to learn here.
One of the greatest and most wonderful books I've ever read, so much of wisdom, many meanings and layers here. I definitely will reread it again and again. I still remember the first day I began to read this book, my perturbed heart became peaceful and serene instantly after reading the first three Valleys of Search, love and knowledge.
A fantastic look into the 7 different levels of spiritual development. (Search, Love, Knowledge, Unity, Contentment, Wonderment, True Poverty and Absolute Nothingness). A fantastic read. Interesting to find out just what valley I was in, and how far i have to go to get to the 7th. I learned that I may not make it to the 7th valley in this world.
This is an excellent book, although I assume most people would declare it strange. When our planet is cruising on its orbit in space, and the sun is on the other side of our planet, I try to read one chapter of this book at that time. I believe it serves its purpose.
Written by Bahá'u'lláh during his two-year stay in the mountains of Kurdistan. During that time, he was in contact with the Naqshbandi and other Sufi orders. Rumi, the greatest Sufi poet, is quoted profusely.
Beautiful in many ways. I had forgotten how deeply influenced Baha'i faith was in its beginning by Persian Sufism.
Wonderful book.
"kitab suci"...gak tau harus ngasih bintang berapa :P
Beautiful. Everything that comes from the pen of Baha'u'llah is beautiful.
A mystical adventure. This book is different than other Bahá'í books that I've read over the decades. I find it easier to understand at my age now, than when I first read it as a youth.
only got 4 stars because I felt there was a lot I didn't understand the first time around. Need to go back for a reread.
