https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/567720.Freedom_in_Exile

while there i was working for a tour company that designed trips to india, nepal and tibet.
i decided that a tour should be created that followed the steps of the 14th dalai lama's exile and journey out of tibet to india because i was so moved by this story.
the story of the tibetan people is sad and inspiring.
now being slowly colonized by the chinese, they have even instituted their own heir to the tibetan spiritual throne, by naming the 15th dalai lama.
but if you want to learn his story and the story of his people, this is the place to start.
It is truly remarkable that a man that has seen and had to deal with so many horrific things that the People's Liberation Army did to the Tibetan people can be so loving and forgiving.
I really enjoyed reading this book and learning more about the history of the Tibetan people and how Mao's communism, while it seemed like a good idea at the time, ultimately forced the Dalai Lama into exile and his people into a marshall law state for many years.
I also think that the idea of reincarnation is well explained and almost believable according to the stories he tells.
It chronicles the mischief, trials, the grandeur and the spirituality that comes along with being chosen as the Dalai Lama.His Holiness creates a very world that I could relate to and the backdrop of Himalayas gave me the perspective that is needed to understand his life.
That some things are worth preserving and that everyone deserves to live the way they want to and cultures as old as Tibetan Buddhism and as lovely and peaceful as them need a voice in order to see tomorrow's light.
This book is a tale of how Dalai Lama has become that voice.Would definitely recommend it to people who would like to know more about Tibetan Buddhism.
A very good read. Provided me the background of the happenings of Tibet, past and present. Recommend to read to get an idea of what Tibet is like and what's going on. Dalai Lama is a straight forward writer, with not a lot of details, easy to understand and read. Can fully feel his feelings for Tibet and his people through the way he wrote.
Raised as a incarnate lama and as a monk since 6 years of age, he has a fresh, almost naive, comportment to dramatic events which have shaped his life.
The telling of the invasion and subsequent oppression of the Tibetans is quite shocking.
Also, the Dalai Lama presents himself not as a "realized" or enlightened being, but rather almost as a novice monk, doing his best to learn and be a good Buddhist according to the example of his teachers and predecessors.
His religious attitude is on the whole almost utilitarian - spiritual life and Tibetan culture is good because it helps humans be more loving and compassionate and fosters peace.
I just finished reading this book.
This is an honest story of His Holiness The XIV Dalai Lama and the people of Tibet.
While reading the book, I could imagine how China turned this beautiful land into a river of blood.
I support Tibet's fight for freedom and gives me immense hope to know that the world has great spiritual yet progressive leader like HH The Dalai Lama.
Anyone reading this book, should not treat this as a story and read slowly to understand the teachings of Buddhism, sufferings of Tibetans and above all His Holiness's fight for the cause.
In this book the Dalai Lama is able to share the story of Tibet's situation with China with wit, humor, and pure honesty.
It helped me understand the issue much more clearly, and it was a perfect supplement to visiting Tibetan villages in India.
I was fascinated by the open mindedness with which the Dalai Lama experienced everything.
He does a terrific job of showing how Tibetan Buddhist culture can, in fact, fit into the modern world.
I would recommend this to anybody that wants to understand the history of Tibet's relationship with China more fully.
It has definitely influenced my perspective.
The night my father-in-law very suddenly passed away (almost a month ago now), I just couldn't get into the book I had been reading at the time. It just seemed too shallow that night. So I picked this up instead. It wasn't exactly a "comfort" given the sad recent history of the Tibetan people, but it was a heartwarming look into someone who truly wants to end human suffering.
One of the most distressing and heart-rendering books I've ever read. Anybody who ever casually claims to support a free Tibet needs to read this book and anybody who knows nothing about the place should read it too. The Chinese have a lot to answer for.
Pradėjau vieną skaityti ir nejučiom į galvą šovė mintis - kaip aš galiu skaityti visas šitas Dalai lamos knygas taip paviršutiniškai nutuokdama apie jį patį.
Tad su pamilta tema nusprendžiau pažindintis iš pagrindų ir susiradau paties Dalai lamos autobiografiją "Laisvas tremtinys".
Šioje knygoje Dalai lama pasakoja visą savo gyvenimą nuo pat dvejų metukų.
Pagal Tibeto kultinius papročius, būdamas dvejų, išlaikęs įvairius patikrinimus jis buvo pripažintas tryliktojo Dalai lamos inkarnacija ir vaiko gyvenimas kardinaliai pasikeitė.
Kad ir kaip bebūtų, tuomet jis buvo dar vaikas ir visus vaikiškus prisiminimus, nuotykius, išdaigas (o jų būta tikrai nemažai) knygoje "Laisvas tremtinys" jis ir surašo.
"Laisvas tremtinys" yra ne tik Dalai lamos, bet ir Tibeto istorijos autobiografija.
Seriously a man of many hats!
This spiritual and political leader shows himself to have a great writer's eye!
The books is a fantastic blend of his own personal history and recollections and the Tibetan history he's lived through.
But, it is the wisdom and balance of the man that shines through most clearly.
A coupleof my favorite quotes:"If materialsm and technology really are the answer to all of humanity's problems, the most advanced industrial societies would now be full of smiling faces.
Equally, if people were meant only to be concerned with matters of spirituality, we would all be living joyously according to their religious beliefs.
Both spiritual and material progress are required.
This is, in a nutshell, a beautiful, honest and extremely sad story of a wonderful man.Most of us already know the sorry tale of Tibet and the Chinese occupation of it through popular media.
The Dalai Lama's life starts in free Tibet and ends as a political exile in India, and in many ways, you know how the story will go.What was remarkable, however, were two things:One, the honesty and openness of this man, despite the obvious pain he's been through in his life, is refreshing and consistently evident from the first chapter all the way to the last.
This is a beautiful and sad tale, told by an extraordinary, wonderful man.
The Dalai Lama presents a convincing and earnest narrative of his life and the story of Tibet.
I really enjoyed reading about his account of his childhood, from being found in a tiny village to be the rebirth of the 13th Dalai Lama at age two, to growing up and playing army games with his servants in the grand palace of Potala.
The agenda of the Dalai Lama for writing his autobiography is transparently obvious, but as I'm inclined to believe him and I support a free Tibet, it didn't upset me.
But many of the things he says about China could be taken very offensively.
Amazing read! I found the life of the Dalai Lama so fascinating and I definitely learned so many things from this autobiography. I never knew the suffering in Tibet was so great and the weight of responsibility he had was incredible, but he pulled through. Inspiring! A must read.
It's a heart-rending book towards the end, but very interesting to read how a teenager ruled Tibet and went on to come one of the greatest peace activists in history.
Humbled!
The book then quickly gathers pace when China began its invasion of Tibet and the Dalai Lama was forced to flee and seek refuge in India in 1959.
The chapters about this unjust exile were incredibly moving and sad - it's a story that is all too familiar to anyone who has done any basic research on Tibet, but reading it from the Dalai Lama's eyewitness perspective and hearing about the impact that it had on the Tibetan people as they struggled to adapt and make a new home for their families in India, made it all the more heartbreaking to read.
I have been to Tibet and I had heard the Dalai Lama speak.
So when my group chose this book, I was interested.
The big struggle of the book, it seems to me, is the conflict between his love and respect for all living beings, and his dislike for what the Chinese have done (and perhaps are doing) to the people of Tibet.
And he is interested in science and scientific education for his people.While I did not get to know any Tibetans while I was there, I did respect their piety and religious devotion.
Some very inspirational thoughts, especially with what was happening to his people. I would like to read more of his works.
Great book that describes the life of the Dalai Lama and the turmoil experienced by Tibet over the decades of Chinese occupation. "I took note of the Buddha's teaching that on one sense a supposed enemy is more valuable than a friend, for an enemy teaches you things, such as forbearance, that a friend generally does not.""For as long as space endures, And for as long as living beings remain,Until then may I, too, abide To dispel the misery of the world."
This book was incredibly inspiring. I got to know a lot of things about the Dalai Lama that I didn’t know about before. For example, I learned that he is afraid of caterpillars and horses! :)
I’m embarrassed to admit I knew almost nothing of the history of Tibet, and even less of the Dalai Lama’s life. I relished learning about both. I question some of the things he talks about (and think he would encourage such questioning!), such as his views on vegetarian diets, the use of oracles, the methods for for identifying reincarnated lamas. Yet I come away more inspired than ever to put his ideas into practice.
Jednostavno ispričana priča o tužnoj sudbini tibetanaca koju je ispričao sam Dalai Lama.
Prior to reading this book, I didn't have that much of an idea about the living conditions prevailing in Tibet - I always took Tibet to be a peaceful country.
But after reading this, I felt a huge sorry and pity for the people of the Tibet that had to face so many atrocities at the hand of communist China, a country that annexed Tibet just for its selfish gains.
Anyone reading this book, should not treat this as a story and read slowly to understand the teachings of Buddhism, sufferings of Tibetans and above all His Holiness's fight for the cause.
There were a lot of moments that the Dalai Lama talks about Tibet(how can he not, it's inevitable), but he also mentions his fascinating childhood and upbringing as the Dalai Lama.
I found it fascinating that he was actually an incredibly rebellious child, it was pretty amusing.The moments that spoke about China's atrocities against Tibet were merely for the sake of bringing them to light, not to be against China.
In fact, he has worked closely with China to bring peace to everyone.
All this man wants is peace, and that comes out very clearly in such an inspirational book.
A comprehensible and meaningful autobiography.
Though there was a ghostwriter, the ghostwriter was interviewed in another book, "Understanding the Dalai Lama," and he discusses not only the length of time spent in interviews but also in revisions to the book.
There is not a single sentence the Dalai Lama did not have a hand in.
The Dalai Lama's compassionate nature is obvious.
His discusses his meetings with Mao at length, which are very revealing.
The best material is in the beginning and middle.
Basically the best book there is on the Dalai Lama.
His holiness the Dalai Lama is living example of love and forgiveness.
After reading the atrocities against the Tibetan people in their own country I truly amazing to me how his holiness still is able to keep a loving compassionate view.
This also gives an insight into how his holiness is a normal human being just like all of us with his own faults and how he has grown with his spiritual practice.
It made me believe that the peace and spirituality is more accessible even for a lay person.
I really hope his country get the freedom they are looking for.
This book deserves a rating of 5/5.
The book " Freedom in Exile" is an account of the life of his holiness The Dalai Lama.
It is a very touching book, especially for me as a Buddhist, because it tells us about the suffering and paints that his holiness and the people of Tibet had to go through during the Chinese invasion.
This account is a very moving book, it is a highly recommended read for people who would like to have a little more insight on the life of the extra ordinary Dalai Lama.
HHDL's writes in a strong, yet gentle voice and the pages just fly by. The history of the office of Dalai Lama is fascinating and Tenzin Gyatso's reign as 14th Dalai Lama is equally as fascinating. He is a true embodiment of what he teaches, the book recounts the hardships of his life, of the fall of Tibet, his time in exile, everything. And every page recounts it void of malice or anger. Seriously one of my favourite books.
