https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28495.Sculpting_in_Time
The scale of his talent and its main feature: ability to erect his own personal life experiences to the scale of something universal, attracts a lot of young filmmakers and they all end up destroying their own talent, just because of that - it is impossible to repeat what Tarkovsky did on screen.
just very unproductive, but he speaks so conclusively and lofty in this book, it even leaves you with feeling, that if you want to be a good director you just don't have another way then follow his method...And the main idea is that cinema mainly works with time, not action or characters, that it records it in a way, which no other art can come near.
In generalized terms, it’s unacceptable to dwell in the beauty of dreams; they are instead crushed and transformed into the ordinary so-called “realism.” In place of intuitive creativity, modern society gives rise to these approximate outlets - fantastical universes of sorcery and make-believe (sometimes, sadly, physically reenacted like LARP) - that do little more than superficially entertain and obscure our actual human identities.
Sadly, it doesn’t surprise me that I am ignored by people who are emotionally stunted and think that sheer mockery is a hipster lifestyle and a sustainable culture, whether they were instilled with these deflective measures by their parents or peers, it arose out of cowardice to understand human purpose, or it’s an innate attribute of people with the supposed inability to form loving relationships.
معالجته للزمن مُبهرة للغاية، شاهدت فلم المرآة دون أي خلفية مسبقة عنه، ظللت مشدودة من أول دقيقة حتى ا
Uno sguardo umano, un divino nascosto“Il film, quando non è un documentario, è un sogno. E’ per questo che Tarkovskij è il più grande di tutti”.(Ingmar Bergman)http://youtu.be/7U4RqGhB5hQ“Mi hanno sovente domandato cos'è la Zona, che cosa simboleggia, ed hanno avanzato le interpretazioni più impensabili. Io cado in uno stato di rabbia e di disperazione quando sento domande del genere. La Zona è la Zona, la Zona è la vita: attraversandola l'uomo o si spezza o resiste. Se l'uomo resisterà dipende dal suo sentimento della propria dignità, dalla sua capacità di distinguere il fondamentale dal passeggero”.(Andrej Tarkovskij su "Stalker")Due geni a confronto:http://youtu.be/nJiDSbbfk8U

Dar această speranță la rolul inteligent al fiecărei vieți în parte şi al fiecărei acțiuni omeneşti măreşte la nesfârşit responsabilitatea individului față de evoluția generală a vieții.În lume, unde amenințarea războiului, capabil să distrugă umanitatea, este reală, unde dezastrele sociale uimesc prin amplitudine, iar suferințele omeneşti sunt strigătoare la cer, trebuie să căutăm drumul unul către celălalt.
Aceasta este datoria sfântă a omenirii față de propriul viitor şi datoria fiecăruia în parte."O carte la care voi reveni până voi muri.
في كتابته كما في أفلامه , ثمّة امتزاج عضويّ و في غاية الاتساق ما بين الشعريّ و الفكريّ , ما بين الفنّ و الإيمان , وما بين الروح و الواقع .تاركوفسكي يكتب آراءه حول السينما والأدب والفنّ , وأزمة الروح في عالم الأسواق و القوّة , كتاب ملهم و رهيف .
"I see it as my duty to stimulate reflection on what is essentially human and eternal in each individual soul, and which all too often a person will pass by, even though his fate lies in his hands.
He is too busy chasing after phantoms and bowing down to idols.
In the end everything can be reduced to the one simple element which is all a person can count upon in his existence: the capacity to love.
That element can grow within the soul to become the supreme factor which determines the meaning of a person's life.
Andrei Tarkovsky has much in common with Dostoevsky in the sense that his movies move at a deliberate, slow pace with drawn out panning movements and long takes.
His ideas on the nature and purpose of art, especially pertaining to cinema, and its importance for the spiritually poor, modern consumerist world that seems be on the self-destructive mode.
Tarkovsky was especially drawn to Japanese Haikku which is the simple observation of the world around us, unclouded by preconceived notions and judgements.
For him,the essential element of cinema is also observation, the experience of the world.
The Fyodor Dostoyevsky of film making.

ها هنا حالة أستطيع من خلالها وصف الفكر السينمائي عند تاركوفسكي من خلال برجمان.
لا يمكن فصل فكرة العمل السينمائي عن الطابع الداخلي لتاركوفسكي, وفي المرآة والناستولجيا التفصيل.أندرية تاركوفسكي هو المخرج, الشاعر, الذي أزعم أن الصور الشعرية التي يخلق مزعجة للغاية.
هذه القصائد التي قد نعجب بها في حالة النص تمارس تأثيراً يشبه القلق: تاركوفسكي يشحن الصورة بلا كلمات.
أزمنة مختلفة قد تشتت المشاهد: لكنها عند تاركوفسكي هو زمن واحد.
في حالة الانتقال من زمن إلى زمن, لا تصبح هناك أزمنة, هناك زمن واحد ممتد من البداية حتى النهاية, الموت.هناك ثنائية تحكم علاقة المخرج آندريه تاركوفسكي بالسينما: الثقل والخفة.
"Hiçbir filmimde simge kullanmadım.'Bölge',bir 'bölge'işte.İnsanın kat etmek zorunda olduğu hayat,hepsi o kadar.İnsanın ya yok olduğu ya da dayandığı bu yerde ayakta kalmayı başarıp başaramayacağı kendine olan saygısıyla,önemliyi önemsizden ayırma yeteneğiyle belirlenir.Her birimizin içinde olan o özgün insanilik ve ebedilik üzerinde düşünmeyi teşvik etmeyi görevim sayıyorum.Ne yazık ki bu sonsuzluk ve öz,insanın kendi yazgısını kendi elinde tutmasına karşın sık sık görmezden geliniyor.Birtakım aldatıcı idealler peşinde koşulması yeğleniyor.Ancak gene de geride insanın varlığını inşa ettiği ufacık bir kırıntı kalıyor:sevme yeteneği.İşte bu kırıntı insan ruhunda,hayatını belirleyecek bir yer işgal edebilir,varlığına anlam katabilir."filmlerine geçmek için sabırsızlanıyorum tarkovsky
Kitap sinema üzerinden insanın dışarısıyla/gerçeklikle/diğerleriyle nasıl ilişki kuracağını konu edinen, bir bilgeliğe erişme, büyüme yolu kitabı.
Bu nedenle teröpatik etkisiyle bu kitabı sadece sinemayla ilgilenenler değil herkes okumalı (filmlerini izlemiş olmak da gerekmez).Tarkovski'nin diliyle söylersek; içine tüm evreni sığdıran insanın kendi yazgısını diğerleriyle ortaklaştırma çabası onun filmlerinin konusunu oluşturuyor.
"Yaratıcılık keşifle değil var etmekle anlamlıdır", "sanatta gerçek, öznel deneyimlerle sahiplenilir", "gerçek bireyselliğe giden yol özveriden geçer", "kendini gerçekleştirme diğerleriyle anlaşmayla mümkündür"...
bütün bu çelişkili görülen önermelerin katları açılıyor.Tarkovski için teknik tali bir mesele, asıl olan bağımsız, zorunlu yaratıcı çalışma.
Özgürlük, ahlak, yaratıcılık, zayıflık, bireysellik, fikri bunalım, maneviyat üzerine ama bireysel deneyimin filozofluğuyla sözlerini bulmuş bir metin.
Something of a blog post: I am currently working on a playscript concerned with his exile and death, though using an analogue to explore my relationship with my father.
This short work was an invaluable insight, especially alongside his journals, which are important as a further revelation of his personality, his relationship with his family, being plagued by doubt, his humanity.
It would need to butterfly.I'm looking forward to reading Kieslowski, who appears to be less lucid, less articulate, less structured, less zealous, a medium almost entire, which should make a pretty good contrast.
Read it!
"We all know the tradicional genre of ancient Japanese poetry, the haikku.
[Sergei] Eisensteinquoted some examples:'Coldly shining moon;near the ancient monasterya wolf is howling''Silent in the fielda butterfly was flyingthen it fell asleep'Eisenstein saw in these three line verses the model for how the combination of three separate elements creates something different in kind from any of them.
Since this principle was already there in haikku, however, it is clearly not exclusive to cinema.What attracts me in haikku is its observation of life - pure, subtle, one with its subject.'As it passes bythe full moon barely touchesfishhooks in the waves''the dew has fallen,on all the spikes of blackthornthere hang little drops'This is pure observation."A.
O total desmerecimento que ele faz do cinema de gênero e comercial em geral, claro, entendo o ponto de vista dele, mas também não vou passar em cima do meu e deixar de achar o Sergio Leone tão gênio quanto o Tarkovski, porque, caraleo, esses cineastas elitistas me fazem vomitar.Enfim, passei uns dias sem pegar no livro por conta dessa "irritação" e pude me deleitar com a bela visão de sua alma, mesmo sendo tão diferente da minha concepção de vida e cinema.
Este é um livro que certamente irei reler em algum momento da minha vida. Não só por ser fã do trabalho cinematográfico de Tarkovski, mas também por ter tido uma relação ambivalente com o que nele estava escrito. Apesar de ter gostado de muitas partes, não posso esconder que a maneira dogmática e religiosa com que o diretor vê as coisas me incomodou.
It is one of the most beautiful film ever made.
It was turned in Féroé, the Bergman'isle with Nyqvist his director of the photograph and one of his prefered actor Erland Josephson.Nuclear war threatens.
Man passes a pact with God. If his family is saved in the morning, he gives up speaking.
After a night agitated his family is saved.
He decides to pass for insane so respecting the pact.
It is the film the strongest which I know.
I decided to see all of Tarkowski's movies.
In all of his works, we find the same questions about the human conditions.An immense film director, one of the best, too ignored now.
His way of explaining is a bit off-beat, and reminded me of Russian painter Wassily Kandinsky quite a lot (see Concerning the Spiritual in Art - Highly recommended to anyone who enjoyed this, by the way).
In this book Tarkovsky explains the methods behind his films; and not in a technical sort of way.
He explains his films in terms of his philosophy, which is very spiritual in nature.
I would recommend viewing his films first (not all of them are necessary, but as many as possible.
He refers to "The Mirror" quite a lot throughout the book, so that film in particular is a must).
فالفلم عبارة عن صور كل صورة يمكن أن ترسخ أو تجمعها ذاكرة المشاهد تنتظم فيها على هيئة مشاهد أو مواقف متفرقة ...
حتى وأنت تجمع صور الفلم في ذاكرتك ترى كم الذاكرة انتقائية ومبعثرة ...
لأن الصور والتعابير المضافة إليها وذاكرتك يمكن أن تنظم الصور في أكثر من موقف وأكثر من مشهد تحتاج عند جمعها لتسلسل زمني آخربعد انقطاع وفي محاولة الابتعاد قدر الامكان من حدة العبقرية الروسية شاهدت فلم تاركوفسكي (طفولة ايفان) ضرب من العبقرية الفكرية والفنية وإذ تنتقل صور الفلم بين الذاكرة والواقع والحلم ...فكلما ازدادت وطأة الواقع انتقل للحلم وكلما رق الحلم انتقل للذاكرة ...
الشاعرية الواضحة في أفلام تاركوفسكي حتى سماه البعض "شاعر السينما" تتضح هنا في طريقة كتابته وتعامله مع الصورة والكاميرا ومفهوم الزمن الذي انعكس على عنوان الكتاب الرائع "النحت في الزمن".أحب أفلام تاركوفسكي وشاهدتها جميعها قبل قراءة الكتاب الذي أعاد لي مشاهد هذه الأفلام يشرح فيها أفكاره وأسبابه لتصبح السينما فنا وليس تجارة تشبه الأفلام الأمريكية وطابع الحركة والمباشرة فيها، تاركوفسكي يريد السينما أن تخاطب الشخص وأحلامه وأفكاره ومخاوفه وليس مجرد فقرة ترفيهية مليئة بالحركات السريعة والإثارة الرخيصة.
الكتاب أشبه بالكتاب الأدبي والخواطر الشعرية أكثر مما هو كتاب يتحدث عن صناعة السينما حتى يقول في نهاية الكتاب: أرى نفسي شاعرا وليس سينمائيا.
رائع
I like movies.
That being said, I'm not obsessed with movies.
My field is literature, because writing is my happy medium of conveying thoughts and feelings.
However, I bought this book for a friend of mine who is obsessed with both literature and movies, and who can appreciate it fully.
I loved the book - Tarkovsky is a surprisingly good writer - and I took from it a lot with regards to movie making, the relatio ships between the director and the actors, the audience and transmitting enough information through an image so that the viewer understands the point.
"We know little about ourselves"Perhaps, my favorite director.
Sinema sanatına yaklaşımdave bakışta ufuk açıcı bir kaynak...
He is against montage theory and believes that to be true to the essence of cinema is to leave everything formally within the frame and attempt to capture time in the film image the way that it exists in real life, thus making "rhythm" and not editing the main formative element of cinema.4.
He evolved from planning the details of the scene to approaching it with a general idea due to reality being richer than imagination and allowing serendipity.
He finds meticulous plans abstract and restricting on the imagination so one should merely approach the scene with an open mind.6.
Un libro che non è testamento (anche perchè troppo tempo, per scrivere le ultime memorie), ma soprattutto saggio sull'uomo, sulla poesia, sulla profondità.
Un libro di bellezza, riflessioni sul mondo e tecnica cinematografica, con una solidità di fondo impressionante.
In ogni frase trasuda una lucida passione, ma non con la trita aria evanescente-artistica-fricchettona, bensi' con una struttura teorica, teoretica e spirituale cosi' solida che ci potresti costruire sopra una casa.
Le conclusioni, disperate e profonde, sono un must-read.Un uomo che purtroppo manca da troppi anni, di cui fatìco a trovare un continuatore - ma accetto consigli...
""Esculpir en el tiempo, quizá sea, si no el mejor, uno de los mejores libros sobre cine jamás escritos". Más en https://capitulocuarto.wordpress.com/...
فشلت في التواصل مع معظم اجزاء الكتاب بما في ذلك النظريات حول الفن والسينما، والاستشهادات من أفلام لم أشاهدها. لم أتوقع أن أجد هذا العسر في قراءته، لكن ولسبب ما لم تكن قراءة سلسة بالنسبة لي.
Andrei Tarkovsky is the greatest filmmaker of the 20th Century, there's just no disputing this fact.His writings on film, presented here, are indispensable to anyone interested in film.
