https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6508160-the-longer-bodies
I have a new "if I become rich" daydream, thanks to this book: I want to make various charming young relatives carry out insane schemes while I decide which one gets my money.
Sayers and Agatha Christie, was an incredibly prolific crime author, publishing one book each year, and bringing her total of Mrs Bradley novels to over sixty.One of the protagonists of The Longer Bodies is Great Aunt Matilda Puddequet, who is ‘enormously wealthy’ and ‘enormously mean’.
The father of the three Yeomond boys, Godfrey, who believes Great Aunt Matilda to be a ‘vinegar-tongued old hag’, says this of her when he learns of her proposed tournament: ‘The only thing she seems inclined to give away without stint… is unasked for advice’.
Very strange for first half and all over the place until Mrs Bradley arrives. Then lovely twists and turns and surprises.
Just as Tristam Shandy shows you what a novel looked like before people really figured out how to write one, "The Longer Bodies" shows you how early crime fiction flopped about like a recently landed fish on a dock before the modern genre emerged.The first half of the book, a long, long, oh-God-am-I-not-yet-through-this, 150 pages or so is a complete mess: scrappy exposition, cardboard characterisation more suited to a farce, an investigative method that was explained at length and yet was both ineffective and implausible.
What I like best about it is how strange it is to have an amoral detective as the lead.
Mrs Bradley is a unique figure to hinge a detective series upon.
It's a traditional closed circle mystery & in a rural setting.
Seriously, there are like a dozen of them in this story, all alike.
Only Mrs. Bradley is strongly developed.There is no way for the reader to solve the mystery since Mitchell does not give us well really any clues that would be helpful.
I will read the 4th in the series just because I am so fascinated at how crazy this Mrs Bradley character is.
This is a very early work of the prolific writer Gladys Mitchell. It is a cozy mystery in the classic British country house setting. I find the plot somewhat fantastic. The first half of the book was all right. However, it gets more interesting when Mrs. Bradley shows up in the second half. There were quite a fair amount of description of Mrs. Bradley. including how brilliant she is, the fact that she looks like a vulture and has clawlike fingers. and has abnormally acute hearings.
Kindle Unlimited | Pretty terrible, struggled through the first half, walked away from it for over two months, then forced myself to complete it. Giving the series one more try.
This reads almost like a mystery farce, and thus has a great deal of humor. Unfortunately, the plot was flimsy and drawn-out, and the solution was a bit dark for me. I will try this author again, as this is my second attempt; I liked the first more than I liked this one.
Want to read a story in which one outrageous old lady sets off a chain of events that culminates in murder, at which point another outrageous old lady steps in and solves the mystery?
Her niece's son practically has to be chloroformed, but HIS sister wants to come and the females in this family are all as strong-minded as Great-Aunt Puddequet herself.
He had hoped that the old lady's money would fund his acting career, but she has other plans.Typically, Mrs. Bradley doesn't appear until halfway through the book, but she dominates the stage from that point on.
The premise for this country house murder mystery is bonkers: a rich old lady sees how badly England is beaten at an athletics meet and decides to leave her fortune to the first grandson to become an international champion in the event of her choosing.
The murders and mysterious events occur at seemingly random intervals, the amateur detective (an eccentric lady psychologist) doesn't show up until about two-thirds of the way through the book, and the eventual solution comes out of the blue (although she keeps nodding smugly because it's all quite obvious to her) and makes only moderate amounts of sense.
Good characters, solid murder, interesting twists. The third quarter was unfortunately weak -- the constant re-working over the facts just got boring for me, unfortunately, and neither Mrs. Bradley and the Inspector were strong enough to make up for the regurgitation of fact, especially since so much of it was misdirection. The ending had a few twists that redeemed the story, but I have to confess, I think Mrs. Bradley used a pretty cheap trick to solve the crime. Still, she's not known for playing by the rules!
Gladys Mitchell ditches fair play in the detective novel, in favour of an entertainingly random motive for a murder.The book is let down by the publisher's inability to proof-read, however, with a variety of ghastly, jarring errors that make the book extremely difficult to enjoy. But still, considering the rarity of many of Mitchell's books, better than nothing...
Rather more fun than it ought to be, and Justice is served in a way quite wilfully amoral. Anyone like me who finds themselves feeling slightly cheated by the penultimate chapter should carry on reading: you'll know why when you get to the end.
Worth reading but I recommend starting with another book.
Interesting. An early one, and it's interesting to see how Mrs. Bradley starts out, as contrasted to her later self.
Some of Gladys Mitchell's books are TOTALLY amazing, but this isn't one of them. doesn't sto me wanting to own the full set though.
