https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99121.A_Confederate_General_from_Big_Sur
It was only through a Lee-of-another-color, Lee Mellon, that I found out the truth about Big Sur. Lee Mellon who is the battle flags and the drums of this book. Lee Mellon: a Confederate general in ruins. Early in this novel our narrator and Lee Mellon visit a library. Mellon is a proud direct descendant of a famous Confederate general, and he wants to prove his claim to fame to his new friend by showing him a volume of Civil War history detailing the facts of great-grandfather Augustus Mellon’
Mellon is a proud direct descendant of a famous Confederate general, and he wants to prove his claim to fame to his new friend by showing him a volume of Civil War history detailing the facts of great-grandfather Augustus Mellon’s service to the great Southern cause.
There was a Confederate general in my family!”“I promise,” I said and it was a promise that I kept.As a young lad in elementary school, the day I learned about the American Revolutionary War was the day I was told I was a direct descendant of a lieutenant that served under General Washington (paternal grandmother’s lineage).
I thought maybe I could give this three stars, but then all of my other three star books would be looking at me like I did them wrong.
If I had read this book when I was 18 and bored as a freshman in college I would have enjoyed it more, I might have thought that something great was being produced here.
This whole book has that adolescent, hedonistic / 'i know everything because i get high all the time' thing going on that is so terribly boring.
Black Lebanese Hash TagSet in the Big Sur of Henry Miller and Jack Kerouac, "Confederate General" isn’t Beat, nor is it Hippy in the clichéd collective, counter-cultural sense that we’re all familiar with from the mid- to late-60’s. It’s something in between,  something genuinely individualistic, something unique  to the participants, whether or not millions of others would subsequently try to replicate their experience. Having abandoned San Francisco with no job and no money, Jesse and Lee retr
(hide spoiler)]"If so much as one more bite of abalone were balanced in my mouth, I knew that my soul would slide out like toothpaste and be diminished for all time in the universe."(view spoiler)[I suppose another way of saying it would be that hunger eats the soul and repetition kills your appetite.
(hide spoiler)]"The truck looked just like [an American] Civil War truck if they'd had trucks back in those times."(view spoiler)[This is just pretty typical of Brautigan's sense of humor.
(hide spoiler)]"...we went away with each other like small republics to join the United Nations."(view spoiler)[A boy and a girl do something grown up with each other for the first time.
(hide spoiler)]"Elizabeth acted like an infinite swan."(view spoiler)[What can I say?
He died on the gangplank, just a few feet away from America.
It's wildly funny and packed with his trademark inventive metaphors despite being his first published work.
I find his association with the so-called "beat generation" to be the impetus for misplaced assumptions about his work and this trip with him to that fabled hallowed turf of Kerouac et al when removed from period literary criticism quick to slap a label on things (sound familiar?) should tear down those fallacies once and for all.
I have enjoyed Richard Brautigan's strange style of storytelling in the past, but it doesn't work for me in A CONFEDERATE GENERAL FROM BIG SUR.
BIG SUR tries too hard to combine some pretty important themes of the 60s: freedom, escape (from society and self), renewal, and free love all together in a “coherent” story.
It wasn’t that the entertainment level diminished with these disjointed storylines, it didn’t…but, and here is where I think Brautigan’s style gets in the way of his storytelling, I stopped caring about the story.
The more I read the more I realized that Brautigan had no idea where he was taking his story.
Man, I just like this Brautigan guy more and more!A Confederate General from Big Sur was Brautigan's first published novel (although he wrote Trout Fishing in America before this one) and you can see why.
The story is about Lee Mellon who swears his grandfather was a confederate general in the Civil War who hailed from Big Sur but the record books say otherwise.
I loved, absolutely loved In Watermelon Sugar which is his surreal masterpiece but Confederate General from Big Sur, is a completely different kettle of fish (certainly not trout though!), while not as original or creative as In Watermelon Sugar it by no means will disappoint, showcasing some of Brautigan's best (albeit early) writing.
"The books of Francis Scott Fitzgerald are in my library, those of Brautigan on my night table." said Djian, a French writer.
An editor proposes in only one volume 3 novels.
The occasion is beautiful to read again this brilliant writer.Emblematic author of the beatnick period, He is the most underestimated.Brautigan is the king of irony.
His characters are splendid losers, celestial tramps.
Lee Mellon claims to have a sudist general asancestor.
Important is what Brautigan's carachters live.
They are free.
By his empathy, the most banal event takes on a mythological dimension.And the style also is free.
No importance.
Brautigan, a monument.
می شد خمیر مایه ی خام تمام شاهکارهای براتیگان رو توی این کتاب پیدا کرد، و دید که اون سبک منحصر به فرد و اون دیدگاه عجیب، از کجا شروع شده و به کجا رفته.دیدن ریشه ها، بسیار جذاب بود برام.اما خود داستان چنگی به دل نمی زد.
اما یک شروع عالی و یک پایان عالی، معمولن تجربه ی خوبی از خوندن یک کتاب برای آدم باقی میذاره.
براتیگانی بود، اما خام و ناظریف.پ.ن) ترجمه هر چند که روونه و خطای اساسی نداره، اما می تونست بسیار بهتر باشه.
_گاهی وقت ها اینطور است . نه هیچ صحبتی از آینده است و نه کوچک ترین درکی از آنچه گذشته_کتاب راجع به شخصی بهنام لی ملون است اما کلا درباره دو مردی است که از زندگی شهری خسته شدهاند و با فقر و نداری پناه میبرند به یک جای پرتی، به خانهباغی کنار یک بزرگراه در بیگسور. آنجا هر دویشان به اضمحلال میرسند. شخصیت لی ملون بسیار جالب است. برای هر کاری آداب خودش دارد.جنگ جنگ است، فرقی نمیکند داخلی باشد یا خارجی. هرکدام آثاری جبران ناپذیر برجای خواهند گذاشت.اولین تجربه نویسندگی براتیگان در بیست و هشت سالگی، در م
شخصیت لی ملون بسیار جالب است.
بسیار دیده ام که این کتاب را به عنوان نسخه ای ضعیفتر از صید قزل آلا در آمریکا نام می برند، ولی این کجا و آن کجا.در انتها، اگر اولین بار است از براتیگان می خوانید سمت این کتاب نیایید و پیشنهاد بهتر، کتاب در رؤیای بابل، که من فوق العاده آن کتاب را دوست می دارم است، اگر هم که براتیگان می خوانید و خوانده اید، این کتاب را هم بخوانید تا با دنیای عجیب و منحصر به فرد براتیگان بیشتر آشنا شوید.
Oh, and of course it has virtually nothing to do with Confederate generals or the Civil War, except maybe tangentially, but I knew to expect that going in as well.
Similar in feel to Trout Fishing in America (loosely structured tales of down-at-the-heels counterculture types), but more traditionally structured (for Brautigan), its protagonists are the the narrator, Jesse, and his buddy Lee Mellon, who is convinced that he is the descendant of a Confederate general who hailed from Big Sur in California and who has been lost to history.
I can read this book every day cuz it just that wonderful.
My Rating 4 AlligatorsI read this book twenty some years ago and it still holds up quite well. Brautigan's style and hilarious characters make for a enjoyable read, or listen (Hoopla).
A Confederate General from Big Sur is a hipster’s stuff done in the style of beatniks – a vagabond tale arrowed straight through the heart of the hobo jungle…“The dinner we had that evening was not very good.
We were just hanging on.We had spent four or five days waiting for someone to come along and bring us food, a traveller or a friend, it made no difference.
That strange compelling power that draws people to Big Sur had not been working for days.”Drifters and dreamers – they go hand in hand and they try to stay outside of a system, following their own polestars… “The frogs would begin at twilight and go all night long.
RICHARD BRAUTIGAN HAS IMMENSELY IMPRESSED ME NEARLY BEYOND EXPRESSION YET AGAIN!
Poetic, playful, perverse, psychedelic, side splittingly hilarious and unsubtly surreal and broadly comical and mischievous...so many adjectives can be sewn together to express my impressment and deep love for this book This legitimate masterpiece was written when Brautigan was just beginning.
On a page by page basis, Brautigan's brilliant debut as a novelist, A Confederate General from Big Sur is at once weird, humorous, enigmatic, unique, unexpectedly beautiful, and poignant in the way only Richard Brautigan can be poignant.
It ends on a note of bizarre sadness and comic experimentation like a Brautigan masterpiece should.
Це наче й не Бротіґан.Звісно, тут є алігатори та ненависні жабиська, трохи мертвих неіснуючих вояків та усіляке таке, навіть жінок є осіб зо п’ять.Але разом із тим тут є (цитата):"Ми викурили п’ять чи шість косяків, і тоді океан почав накочуватися на нас по-іншому, тобто немов саме повільне світло".Вищецитований уривок є квінтесенцією як роману, так і видання: багато недобітницької побутовості, трохи русизмів та дрібка кривої адаптації текстів. Читайте ліпше The Abortion 1966, наприклад. Можливо, навіть російською (очевидно, що краще - англійською). Здобіса побутово, але при тому і дуже замріяно.
Recipe for Big Sur Novel à la mode1 cup Kerouac's On the Road1 cup Miller's Big Sur and the Oranges of Heironymous Bosch1/3 cup Kerouac's Big Sur6 medium size buds of early 60's marijuana1 drifter-like author1 Neal Cassady lite2 chicks who put out1-2 dashes of unhinged businessmanBlend in a large bowl until soft.Ingest one oxycodone or two valium.Read in one sitting or until sleepy........Not a bad book, but not completely original and not very memorable.... still, a part of the early hippie lit of 60's California.
This may have been funny in its time. That time has passed.
The best use of weird metaphors, brilliant and silly and vulgar and nothing to do with anything. You can read it in two hours and it will make you happy and sad and think differently about alligators, motorcycle parts, hippies, and hitchhiking down highway one to Big Sur.
این کار رو نسبت به کارهای قبلیش کمتر دوست داشتم. البته فکر کنم این، اولین رمانش هم هست.وسطای کتاب خیلی خوب میشه و همراهت میکنه اما وقتی به آخر نزدیک میشه باز اون کیفیتی که باید داشته باشه و مخصوص به خودشه رو از دست میده. البته میشه متوجه شد که انگار در حال آزمایشخطاست. میفهمی که داره نثر شعرگونه خودش رو امتحان میکنه ولی هنوز به غلظت مناسبی از این نثر در میان روایت دستنیافته.فقط به کسی پیشنهاد میکنم که براتیگان رو کاملن دوست داشته باشه.
این کار رو نسبت به کارهای قبلیش کمتر دوست داشتم. البته فکر کنم این، اولین رمانش هم هست.وسطای کتاب خیلی خوب می‌شه و همراهت می‌کنه اما وقتی به آخر نزدیک می‌شه باز اون کیفیتی که باید داشته باشه و مخصوص به خودشه رو از دست می‌ده. البته می‌شه متوجه شد که انگار در حال آزمایش‌خطاست. می‌فهمی که داره نثر شعرگونه خودش رو امتحان می‌کنه ولی هنوز به غلظت مناسبی از این نثر در میان روایت دست‌نیافته.فقط به کسی پیشنهاد می‌کنم که براتیگان رو کاملن دوست داشته باشه.
The fourth Brautigan novel I have read so far.
One could almost state that Brautigan was a unique writer, that he wrote like no one else, though certain aspects of his style could be compared to (say) Vonnegut or Barthelme, etc.
To summarize the plot is a futile exercise, because this novel has no real plot, and plot is not what Brautigan is about.The final paragraph of the novel is one of the best final paragraphs I have ever read in any work of fiction.
In fact I'm going to state that it is the best.
"The last good time this country ever had."Parts Walt Whitman, Boudu Saved from Drowning, and Thoreau's Walden, all of it blended in with an idiosyncratic, minimalist take on the bohemians at play before the sixties came rolling in.
Brautigan is surely a unique writer, playing the farce with a destitute and a decadent brevity.
This book has stunning moments, especially the poetic glimpses of the confederate soldier, Augustus Mellon, as he stumbles and bumbles through the Civil War; a character kissed with misfortune, a cut out from a world where Twain writes backwards and Lincoln wore a dress.
Who else but a pair of stoners (or Brautigan) would come up with a "cure" for noisy frogs by yelling "Campbell's Soup!!!" (It doesn't work, I've tried it -- I've tried it with nocturnal rain frogs in Florida.) To this day, I believe Mel Brooks based the "beans scene" in *Blazing Saddles* on Jesse and Lee's efforts to get through a dinner of jack mackerel (they don't even use this fish in cat food) while camping at Big Sur. As off the wall as Trout Fishing in America is, A Confederate General is tight and focused, both in plot and execution.
I had a great time reading this book on a flight headed to Amsterdam, enjoying the entire story from front to back cover in about 2 hours (which was a nice break from the lengthy fantasy novels I've been reading).
I felt uncommonly inspired by the simple yet poetic prose of Brautigan, as well as by the ethereal setting of his story: Big Sur; a region of California coast that I both live by and, upon occasion, visit myself.
Reading their words projects me to a different time, or experience of a place that I am already familiar with- I enjoy this manner of time travel.
(In fact, his first four novels (Confederate, Troutfishing In America, In Watermelon Sugar, and The Abortion) all fit that bill, but that's another set of reviews.) The plot, if one may be so audacious as to ascribe plot to Brautigan's narrative, centers on Jesse, a drifter who encounters a toothless, deranged man named Lee Mellon, who believes (rather strangely) that he is descended from a confederate general.
Together, they move into a house without power in the wilderness near Big Sur, California, where they encounter all sorts of characters, including a pair of alligators introduced into the local pond to kill the frogs therein.

When I was 17 and filling out an application to an Ivy League school I put this as my favorite book.I didn't get in.
Hmm, this Brautigan fellow likes to turn odd phrases. The story was kind of Vonnegut/Robbins odd, but with plenty of pithy little lines that I kept thinking about. Since the story was so odd, it was probably good that it was relatively short - that worked in its favor. I'm certainly willing to try some more Brautigan.
Joining Henry Miller and Jack Kerouac, in lending homage to Big Sur and its quirky characters.
This is a story that the book blurb describes as a description of the early days of the San Francisco hip culture, It is set in the late 50s and is an account of the lives of the narrator Jesse and his friend Their lives as chronicled were lived entirely in the present.
They were lives in which their was little thought for teh future and little thought for consequences either for themselves or for other.
There is perception into the lives of these people that goes beyond the setting in San Francisco hipness.
The book is told from the point of view of Jesse, who accompanies Lee Mellon in misadventures around Big Sur in California where their actions are parodied with those of the imaginary Confederate ancestor of Lee Mellon, Augustus Mellon.Deciphering a huge message to this book would probably be deceiving, it is kind of like staring at a Surrealist painting (a really funny one).
Kind of like how Jesse visualizes Lee Mellon as a Confederate general or how Lee envisions himself as the descendant of a man who clearly does not exist.
