https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6727757-shriman-yogi
Wonderful book to read about Shivaji and his personality.
The book shows the depths to which the author has gone to find details about the life of the Great Shivaji Maharaj.
A fabulous read about life of Shivaji Maharaj, depicted with every minute detail of his personal life, warfare, his bonding with subordinates.
Each and every scene is explained in details, this shows how much research writer has done while writing this book.
The author has done a commendable job of bringing to the readers viewpoint that even Shivaji Maharaj was a human being of flesh and blood.
This books take a look at the life of Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj.
But is there someone like Shivaji who had to build his kingdom from the scratch?, someone who did not get a ready made army of thousands of trained soldiers but had to build it brick by brick from among the peasants and the moment he started his efforts, his tiny kingdom was attacked by formidable enemies.
Shivaji never had powers to defeat his enemies in a straight one to one battle.
Give me a king in Indian history to compare with Shivaji on these grounds.Hindu kingdoms had certain peculiarities.
1200 years later, people fought once again for Shivaji’s kingdom.
no words to express...अंगावर काटा येतो , रकत उसळायला लागत ,आतून आवाज येतो हर हर महादेव !red this book several times, first time red when i was in 4 std. , give me strength to fight against all odds...
no words to express...अंगावर काटा येतो , रक्त उसळायला लागत ,आतून आवाज येतो हर हर महादेव !red this book several times, first time red when i was in 4 std. , give me strength to fight against all odds...
It is one thrilling ride.. through history and mystery !What is the most charming facet of the book is its sensitivity. The way Ranjit Desai handles his pen is definitely as worthy as how the great Shivaji would have had handled his mighty sword.This is an ode to the magnum-opus called Shivaji, not just as a king and a warrior but also as a person !
If you are well conversant with Marathi then you should read the original "Shrimanyogi" by Ranjit Desai.
This book is a translation and doesn't really live up to the original book.
I believe the Dr Katamble should have maintained the spirit of book instead of trying to emulate the sentence structure and Marathi idioms Mr Ranjit Desai used.
Apart from these occasional issues, the translation is rather well done.After I started reading this book, I came to know about Jadhunath Sarkar's book, "Shivaji and his times." I intend to read it to get a better understanding about some of the instances that were presented very favorably in this book.
Heart touching saga of the great Maratha Warrior. A must read for every history lover.
I recently completed reading this book.
I found it very beautiful and more importantly the feelings erupt from us while reading it.
While reading we can actually imagine the entire scene running in front of our eyes.
Another important feature is being a non maharshtrian i could read and understand the language, so the language used by the author is very simple.
So my request to those people who are non maharashtrians but can read and understand marathi should take marathi version because i feel it will give you the feel more than any other language.
this is the best fiction,or rather imaginary book based on great maratha warrior chhatrpati shivaji...... i m saying that because its not written as history...... but a story.
This book inspired me in my tough times of life... i thank the author for writing it!!!
This book is a source of inspiration, a source of positivity. You will learn a lot.Shri.Desai sir has written extremely well and in very easy language to understand anyone Really this is a book I will advise anyone to read
i was lucky to spend some memorable moments with ranjeetdada over a period of time. he used to get stuck in to the subject he is writing about, i`ve seen him doing that when he was handling " RAJA RAVIVERMA". this was in htl gokul,kolhapur, maharashtra.
i was lucky to spend some memorable moments with ranjeetdada over a period of time. he used to get stuck in to the subject he is writing about, i`ve seen him doing that when he was handling " RAJA RAVIVERMA". this was in htl gokul,kolhapur, maharashtra.
Very fantastic journey of shivaji maharaj
i want to read this book.
Romanchak! Apratim!!
मोघली अंमलाखाली पिळलया जाणारा महाराषटर,शहाजी महाराजांचया मनातील सुपत इचछा आणि मासाहेब जिजाऊंची साद सवराजय सथापनेचया सवपनाला.शिवनेरीवरील शिवजनम,दादोजी कोंडदेवाची शिकषा,रोहिडेशवरसाकषीने घेतलेली सवराजयसथापनेची शपथ,एकापाठोपाठ सर केलेले किलले,जिवाभावाचे सवंगडी मावळे आणि काळजाचा ठोका चुकवतील असले शतरू-शायिसतेखान,अफझलखान,मिरझाराजे, दिलेरखान आणि औरंगज़ेब.हे रयतेचे राजय महणत सवराजय उभारणाऱया आणि गुलामी आमचया रकतात नाही हा विचार रुजवणाऱया थोरलया छतरपतींना मानाचा मुजरा.संगरही ठेवावी अशी आणि परतयेकाने वाचावी
मोघली अंमलाखाली पिळल्या जाणारा महाराष्ट्र,शहाजी महाराजांच्या मनातील सुप्त इच्छा आणि मासाहेब जिजाऊंची साद स्वराज्य स्थापनेच्या स्वप्नाला.शिवनेरीवरील शिवजन्म,दादोजी कोंडदेवाची शिक्षा,रोहिडेश्वरसाक्षीने घेतलेली स्वराज्यस्थापनेची शपथ,एकापाठोपाठ सर केलेले किल्ले,जिवाभावाचे सवंगडी मावळे आणि काळजाचा ठोका चुकवतील असले शत्रू-शायिस्तेखान,अफझलखान,मिर्झाराजे, दिलेरखान आणि औरंगज़ेब.हे रयतेचे राज्य म्हणत स्वराज्य उभारणाऱ्या आणि गुलामी आमच्या रक्तात नाही हा विचार रुजवणाऱ्या थोरल्या छत्रपतींना मानाचा मुजरा.संग्रही ठेवावी अशी आणि प्रत्येकाने वाचावी अशी कादंबरी,थोरल्या महाराजांबद्दल खूप काही लिहिल्या गेले पण सर्व काही एकत्रच वाचायचे असेल तर नक्की वाचा -श्रीमान योगी !मराठा तितुका मेळवावा,महाराष्ट्र धर्म वाढवावा हे राज्य व्हावे हि तर श्रींचीच इच्छा.
Best book available on Shivaji Maharaj. Vaachtana rakta usalta. Proud feel hota. So inspirational. Khup mast


There are various books in marathi on Shivaji, no doubt his life is full of all thats required for a novel that there is hardly anyone who wont like to write about him....have gone through few of such books on him already, as compared to "Raja Shivchhatrapati" by Babasaheb Purandare,felt this is not that elaborative & detailed...although its rich enough to portray the great kings life n almost all aspects in it
Wonderful Journey through life of Shivaji MaharajA fabulous read about life of Shivaji Maharaj, depicted with every minute detail of his personal life, warfare, his bonding with subordinates. A must read for those who dont know much about the life of Shivaji Maharaj. Ranjit Desai has the nack of capturing the right essence of the scene just through powerful dialogues and words, and the whole appears live in front of the reader.
Starts out a bit slow, but draws you in as the story progresses. Takes a pragmatic look at the life of Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. Doesn't potray him as a demigod but a human being who overcame tremendous odds to set an example for generations to come. Highly recommended for anybody with an interest in history.
The best researched book ever. Just loved the way it is written. Very interesting, this was the 2nd book on Chattrapathi Shivaji. You'll be so satisfied after buying it. A real gem of Indian Literature. The Author is of my district and later I came to know that he was very close to my uncle. My mind was honored after reading it.
Shriman Yogi is a book about Shivaji Maharaj. There are various books written on Shivaji Maharaj, King of Maratha Kingdom. This is one of my favourite. This book focuses on the struggle Maharaj faced in his life while building a nation. Worth read by all Marathi speakers.
i read many book on The Great Hindu King Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj But this book is one of great book, spacial y Narahar Kurandikar introduction on Shivaji Maharaj.Overall view of writer (Ranjit Desai) is good & it is great criation.
Read it umpteen no of times.... beautiful language... describing one of the most thrilling n courageous part of Indian and in particular, Maharashtra's history.... the scenes are epic..... N so is the life of Shivaji Maharaj....
The book shows the depths to which the author has gone to find details about the life of the Great Shivaji Maharaj. Of course it's not my place to comment on anything. Ranjit Desai is a great author and is truly revered.
one of the best book that i have ever read.SHIVAJI completly a true hero and a great leaderMUST READ....
Classic and best book on Shivaji Maharaj.
