https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/759.Collected_Stories
Todos los cuentos = Collected stories, Gabriel García Márquezتاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و پنجم ماه ژانویه سال 1992 میلادیعنوان: تلخکامی برای سه خوابگرد - مجموعه داستانهای کوتاه؛ نویسنده: گابریل گارسیا مارکز؛ مترجم: کاوه باسمنجی؛ تهران، روشنگران، 1370؛ در 253 ص؛ عنوان دیگر: تلخکامی برای سه خوابگرد و داستانهای دیگر؛ چاپ سوم 1383؛ موضوع: داستانهای کوتاه از نویسندگان کلمبیایی - قرن 20 مداستان های کوتاه مارکز دو بخش است: کتاب اول با نام «چشمان سگی آبی رنگ» با یازده داستان؛ و کتاب دوم «داستان باور نکردن
Todos los cuentos = ‎Collected stories‬, Gabriel Garcí­a Márquezتاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و پنجم ماه ژانویه سال 1992 میلادیعنوان: تلخکامی برای سه خوابگرد - مجموعه داستانهای کوتاه؛ نویسنده: گابریل گارسیا مارکز؛ مترجم: کاوه باسمنجی؛ تهران، روشنگران، 1370؛ در 253 ص؛ ع‍ن‍وان‌ دی‍گ‍ر: تلخکامی برای سه خوابگرد و داستانهای دیگر؛ چاپ سوم 1383؛ موضوع: داستانهای کوتاه از نویسندگان کلمبیایی - قرن 20 مداستان های کوتاه مارکز دو بخش است: کتاب اول با نام «چشمان سگی آبی رنگ» با یازده داستان؛ و کتاب دوم «داستان باور نکردنی ارندیرای بی گناه و مادربزرگ سنگدلش» با هفت داستان. ا. شربیانی
Here, he resembles Hemingway with his spare prose and hard-hitting plotlines.***The book is a compendium of three collections: Eyes of a Blue Dog, Big Mama's Funeral and The Incredible and Sad Tale of Innocent Erendira and Her Heartless Grandmother.
Of these, the first one contains mostly surrealist pieces which reads more like prose poems than stories (except for 'The Woman Who Came at Six O' Clock', a classic tale in the Hemingway mould, about a woman who may have committed a murder).
Perhaps García Márquez--or his stories, at least--should not be read so casually.2) Maybe Gabriel García Márquez isn't so great--I mean, maybe his stories aren't so great--I mean, maybe his earlier work, written when he was much younger, isn't nearly as good as his later stories and his novels--I mean, argh, don't hurt me!
So maybe the quality of Gabriel García Márquez's earlier stories (presented here in chronological order) arent nearly as strong as his other work.
That's not to say all but one story were bad--aside from "Old Man," I liked "The Woman Who Came at Six O'Clock," "Balthazar's Marvelous Afternoon," "The Handsomest Drowned Man in the World," and a handful of others; the rest just didn't really speak to me.
It is also a story in which Garcia Marquez’s fiction, in this collection, transcends the micro view to take on the macro one.The third volume, The Incredible and Sad Tale of Innocent Erendira and Her Heartless Grandmother, seems pre-occupied with taking the author’s vision down to the level of children.
The final story from which the volume gets it’s name, is the longest in the entire collection, and its title says it all: poor Erendira the 14 year-old virgin is exploited to the fullest by her wicked grandmother and is indentured to the old whore for life.
بهدف الإطلاع على فن كتابة القصة القصيرة في أمريكا اللاتينية...
إمتاز ماركيز بأسلوبه الخاص من حيث الكثافة والتوتر والبعد عن الحشو والحوارات الطويلة، كما يلاحظ أيضاً أن هناك رمزية عالية في قصصه قد تدفعك لإعادة قراءة القصة لسبر أغوارها...
يعد ماركيز متمرداً على مبادئ القصة القصيرة فأسلوبه خارج في كثير من الأحيان عن النمط الذي نراه أو نتوقعه عند كتاب القصة وربما كان تمرده هذا سر تميزه...
للأسف أن ماركيز لم ينظر لأسلوبه هذا ولم يضع له خطوطاً عريضة فقد تركه لتفسيرات من بعده وقد أصاب بعضهم وأخطأ آخرون ممن حملوا نصوصه ما لا تحتمل..
6. Collected Stories by Gabriel García Márqueztranslators: Gregory Rabassa & J. S. Bernsteinpublished: 1984format: 343 page paperbackacquired: Decemberread: Jan 18-25rating: 4Original collections:Eyes of a Blue Dog: stories 1947-1955, English translation 1968. Translated by Gregory RabassaBig Mama’s Funeral: stories 1962, English translation 1972. Translated by J. S. BernsteinThe Incredible and Sad Tale of Innocent Erendira and Her Heartless Grandmother: stories 1968-1972, English translatio
S. Bernsteinpublished: 1984format: 343 page paperbackacquired: Decemberread: Jan 18-25rating: 4½Original collections:Eyes of a Blue Dog: stories 1947-1955, English translation 1968.
Translated by Gregory RabassaMárquez spent his youngest years away from his parents, living in the Columbia coastal town of Aracataca with his grandparents, who he explains were both great story tellers.
The main sense in all these stories is of a fairy tale, but with all the dark elements, with wonderful characters, usually leaving us with a sense of how small they are in a strange wider world they will never understand.
Marquez's realms are Sublime.Collected Stories is a compilation of three collections: Eyes of A Blue Dog, Big Mama's Funeral, and The Tale of Innocent Erendira and Her Heartless Grandmother.
He affirms the beauty of fiction, the power of fiction, and the danger of stories in that we can find connection though we may feel estranged from even our closest loved ones.Death is still prominent but holds more meaning in the last collection The Incredible and Sad Tale of Innocent Erendira and Her Heartless Grandmother.
القصص القصيرة الكاملة يضم هذا الكتاب المجموعات القصصية التالية (عينا كلب أزرق)، (جنازة الأم الكبيرة)، (القصة الحزينة التي لا تصدق لإيرنديرا البريئة وجدتها القاسية) و(اثنتا عشرة قصة قصيرة مهاجرة).
افتتحت بهذا الكتاب العام الجديد، كنت آمل أن ماركيز سيمنحني دفعة جميلة، ولكن للأسف تجرعت الكتاب ببطء طيلة الشهر، لا أدري ما الذي حدث؟ هل كان مزاجي لا يتناسب مع الواقعية السحرية هذه الأيام؟ أم أن المجموعة ولأنها كتبت على مدى 34 عاماً جعلها ثقيلة، أرجح هذا الاحتمال، لأني استمتعت بالمجموعتين الأخيرتين أكثر مما فعلت مع الأوليين.
في حضرة ماركيز من جديد..أفضل ما كتب في هذا الكتاب..هو أخر ما جاء بهتحديدا مجموعتي اثنتا عشر قصة قصير
مجموعة قصص ماركيز القصيرة شبيهة لدرجة كبيرة برواياته حتى في إسهابها وتفاصيلها الكثيرة وطولها في حالة بعض القصص، لدرجة جعلتني أتذكر رواياته المذهلة.وقبل تعليقي على القصص، أبدي حزني على الترجمة، على رغم كونها جيدة بعض الشئ إلا أن هناك الكثير من الأخطاء في ترجمة الكلمات لبعض القصص التي قرأتها بالانجليزية من قبل والتي أعرفها، لذلك لاحظت الكثير من الأخطاء وهذا سئ، لأن القصص جيدة فعلا!بالعودة إلى القصص، أعجبني معظمها مثل:"عينا كلب أزرق" وكيف أنها تدور في حلمي شخصين مختلفين على ما يبدو ويتقابلان في الحلم وربما في الواقع أيضاً دون أن يعرف ذلكأو "الإذعان الثالث" المرعبة والتي تدور أحداثها من وجهة نظر شخص "ميت" قضى حياته بأكملها ممداً في تابوت.و "جنازة الأم الكبرى" والتي شعرت كما لو أنها امتداد لرواية "مائة عام من العزلة" كما لو أنها فصلها الأخير أو ما شابه.أما أطول القصص وأروعها هي "الحكاية العجيبة والحزينة لطيبة القلب إيرينديرا و جدتها القاسية"، وهذه ليست قصة قصيرة عادية.
يحتوي الكتاب على أربع مجموعات قصصية -(عينا كلب أزرق)، (جنازة الأم الكبيرة)، (القصة الحزينة التي لا تصدق لإيرنديرا البريئة وجدتها القاسية) و(اثنتا عشرة قصة قصيرة مهاجرة)- مكتوبة حسب التسلسلل التاريخي..لم تعجبني المجموعة الأولى..الثانية كانت أفضل قليلاً..أخر مجموعتين تستحقان القراءة، وتكشفان عظمة ماركيز كأديب أصيل..
The bestest short stories from Marquez. Some just 5 pages long but packed with so much fervor and flavor. Artificial Roses and The Sea of Lost Time were my favorites.
***1/2.This volume collects all the stories previously published by this author in the three earlier volumes of short stories: “Leaf Storm and Other Stories” (1972), “No One Writes to the Colonel and Other Stories” (1968), and “Innocent Erendira and Other Stories” (1978).
The last set of stories comes from “The Incredible and Sad Tale of Innocent Erendira and Her Heartless Grandmother.” The title story actually first appeared in the author’s masterpiece, “One Hundred Years of Solitude,” though in a slightly different version.
The key thing about this collection is that you can follow the mindset of the author through the years, and the various techniques he developed to get his stories across.
Loved it.
ويتسم أسلوب ماركيز في هذه المجموعة بالسخرية اللاذعة، التي قد تدفعك للابتسام ووجهك مبلل بدموع المأساة المروية، وهذا جانب آخر من جوانب عظمته.بهرتني ثلاث قصص تستحق النجوم الخمس: "جنازة الأم الكبرى" التي تصور مشاكل العالم الثالث المقموع و المقهور، "إيرينديرا وجدتها القاسية" التي تصور إذلال الإنسان المفزع للإنسان و ما يتبعه، "رحلة طيبة يا سيدي الرئيس" التي تظهر أن ضعف الإنسان واحد مهما علا شأنه.يلي ذلك ثلاث قصص قيمتها بأربع نجمات: "قيلولة الثلاثاء"، "الموت الدائم قيما وراء الحب"، "جئت لأتصل بالتليفون فقط".كتاب جميل يستحق القراءة.
This is more than just an interesting collection of stories; it's a document of Marquez's growth as a writer.
The first third of the book is frankly pretty terrible.
It's filled with failed experiments in which Marquez grows closer to developing his signature magical realism, but these experiments instead come off as ghost stories that get bogged down in maudlin torpor.
The next two thirds of the book are incredible.
Marquez finds his voice and more importantly, he starts to serve the story.
The characters go somewhere instead of stagnating in their own ghastliness.
The stories themselves are richer and they say something.
اولا الترجمة جيدة ويتناول الكتاب مختارات قصصية منتقاة بدقة عالية فأولا نجد قصص مثل : الصيف السعيد للسيدة فوربس , وهي اول قصة يجب أن تقرأها في هذا الكتاب. ثم ريح الشمال , وبعد ذلك لك الحرية , واخترت القصتين دون غيرهما لانهما يمثلان دفعة جيدة لقراءة كافة القصص ,على عكس ما بدأ به الكتاب , والذي يؤدي إلى فتور اهتمامك بالكتاب , حيث بدأ بقصة يا إما مملة , يا إما سيئة الترجمة , او بكل بساطة لم افهمها او اتذوقها .لذى وجب علي التنويه.
Folk culture, including oral storytelling, reminiscences from old Indian culture, currents from Spanish baroque in different epochs, influences from European surrealism and other modernism are blended into a spiced and life-giving brew.
Your superlative writing skills and the tapestry that’s evident from your stories complement the picture of a writer who combines the copious, almost overwhelming narrative talent with the mastery of the conscious, disciplined and widely read artist of language.
With your stories you create a world of your own which is microcosmic, it is tumultuous, bewildering yet graphically convincing.You are a master,who leave an ineffaceable impression of magic, mystery and mastery.
Marquez is the David Lynch of fiction - these stories read like dreams and every one is shot through with death.
Like seeing a road accident far away, with the smoke billowing up towards the sky and the sound of ambulances and police cars, but the view is blocked, so that all you can do is stare at the dashboard of your own car and wonder.
Marquez is more interested in the dashboard than the accident, but maybe that is his genius maybe.
But I didn't feel like I learned anything really, and I couldn't help but want to see the accident.
An intriguing collection of stories, grouped into three sections of thematically related tales.
Honestly, it was the table of contents that made me pick this one up-- after all, how can one resist the lure of stories with titles like "Eyes of a blue dog" and "Eva is inside her cat"?!
That said, I barely made it through the first set of stories, which were very...
The next two sections contained stories with a bit more linearity to them-- that is to say, they were stories with storylines, and I enjoyed them quite a lot.
Collected Stories contains twenty six short stories divided into three sections.
The stories are in chronological order of their publication.
You read Gabriel Marquez from his very early days to his more seasoned tenure as a writer.
Gabriel Marquez writings as a whole clearly improves over time, this collection proves this point.
The earlier stories were nothing spectacular and as the collection grows so does Marquez and his writing.
I have enjoyed Gabriel Marquez in both short stories and novel length.
This is a wonderful collection to introduce yourself to his writings or even as a refresher, maybe see just how his writing has evolved.
Excellent sampler of Gabriel Marquez.
متاسفانه تو مملکت ما ناشران محترم هر اسمی که دلشون بخواهد برای کتابهای دیگران انتخاب می کنند. بار ها شده یک کتاب رو من با چند اسم دیدم. قبلا رسم بود اسم اصلی اثر رو پشت جلد مینوشتند. حالا حتی اینکار رو هم نمیکنند. فی الحال این کتاب رو سرچ کردم و چون ندیدم اینجا اضافه میکنم.
The last half of the book is much more in line with some other works that I've read and enjoyed, including Of Love and Other Demons and Memories of My Melancholy Whores.Some of the best stories in this compilation of short stories included: The Woman Who Came at Six O'Clock, There Are No Thieves in the Town, The Handsomest Drowned Man in the World, Blackman the Good, Vendor of Miracles, and The Incredible and Sad Tale of Innocent Erendira and Her Heartless Grandmother.Marquez is a genius at creating images using unexpected and odd pairings often mixing the senses to give the reader a fresh experience.
استغرقني قرابة الثلاثة اعوام لتقشير صفحات هذا الكتاب، قصة بعد قصة. وهي ربما الطريقة المثلى والممكنة الوحيدة لانهائه، لان ايقاع قصصه مختلف، فهو يضم ما يقارب ٤٠ قصة قصيرة كتبها ماركيز على امتداد يقارب الاربعين عام. الجزء المفضل بالنسبة لي هو الاخير، قصص بداية الثمانينات، رائعة، ناضجة، وواضحة المقاصد.ترجمة علماني مثالية طبعا لا تحتاج تقييم.
this is hands down one of the most impressive short story collections I've ever read. it's taken me months to complete, coz I have read it only when I'm at my most Attentive which hasn't been much lately. but wow! what a literary masterpiece this collection was. a masterpiece.
"'What I like about you,' she said, 'is the serious way you make up nonsense.'" Innocent Eréndira from, "The Incredible and Sad Tale of Innocent Eréndira and Her Heartless Grandmother"Eréndira's quote is for her lover, Ulises, but it is what every reader who has ever fallen in love with Garbriel Garcia Márquez' writing wished he or she had stated about him.
Whenever I pick up his texts, I prepare myself for the most serious nonsense in Literature, and I have not been disappointed.I came across Márquez' short stories only after reading 
some months ago, and only after reading 100 Years did I notice Márquez' name in my Literature Anthology, 
there are no thieves in this town
This collection comprises three books of stories, the early "Eyes of a Blue Dog", "Big Mama's Funeral", and "The Incredible and Sad Tale of the Innocent Erendira and her Heartless Grandmother".
That story presages not so much the baroque details of "One Hundred Years of Solitude" but instead the knowing compassion of "No One Writes to the Colonel" and "Chronicle of a Death Foretold." (One of the things that I regret about this book is that the copy that fell into my hands is in English; I find Colombian Spanish to have a limpid and refreshing clarity, and Garcia Marquez' use of that quality is masterful).
Will write more later.___Gabriel Garcia Marquez, Collected Stories.I loved them!
I've come to realize...I love short stories.
In the beginning of the book, the stories were completely separate and stood alone (though with a common thread of time and death and dreams running through).
The latter method gave the stories more continuity, and it was easier to let go of the characters from one, and transition to the next.
Imagine if every line of every novel were so intentional!
They looked at one another and for a moment had nothing to say, for only then did they realize how old they had become since the last time they'd heard music" (217).
The earlier stories were about death and were really very strange, I couldn't quite follow who was who was who was the narrator, but these early elements of death are important for the development of life in death and death in life that I find later on in the collection.
I also laughed at A Very Old Man with Enormous Wings and enjoyed the horrific The Night of the Curlews which is like reading a nightmare.The collection finished with the longest story, The Incredible and Sad Tale of Innocent Erendira and her Heartless Grandmother which was sad, hopeful and depressing.
