https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/109514.No_Comebacks
If I had to introduce young people to the joy of reading, this is probably one of the books I'd highly recommend. Compelling stories, all masterfully crafted and well written by a smooth literary hand that never eases up the excitement. There's a reason why Frederick Forsythe is one of the kings of thrillers. This book has ten examples of that.Don't take my word for it. Here read a sample of the first story and decide for your own self.http://www.amazon.com/No-Comebacks-Fr...
This is one of the best books ever written. I absolutely love "The Emperor" This book left me hungering for another short story fest with Mr Forsyth but alas it was not to be. I have read this book many times and find old hardcover copies to give as gifts.
I have never been a fan of the short story. I picked this up and was hooked on page one. All the stories are excellent and no two are the same. I would highly recommend this book. The story called The Emperor will be one that stays with me a for years.
This book languishes in the book collection of our beach house and this weekend I reread it again.
It is generally difficult for me to rate a collection of short stories because their quality can vary from excellent to dismal.
"Duty" and "Sharp Practice" are my least favourite stories but "Privilege" and "A Careful Man" are rare and precious gems that should be used as examples of how short stories should be written.
A memorable image used in a memorable story of how the little guy sometimes wins.
This read was a surprise for me.
A friend bought this book, originally published in 1972, at a library book sale and gave it to me.
Just glancing at the cover I determined this wouldn't be the kind of book I would normally read, figuring it was a kind of who-dunnit read.
But am working through the 30 books unread on my bookshelf and chose this one this week.What a lovely surprise as I discovered this to be a book of 10 short stories, most about crime and whether it pays or not and a few that were more adventurous.The writing is excellent and all 10 stories captured me!I was sorry there were only the 10 stories when I reached the end!
These ten stories keep you on the edge of the chair throughout, nail biting suspense,always with a twist at the end.My favorites "Money with Menaces" and "Used in Evidence" absolutely fantastic. No spoilers here!!
A great collection of short stories each with a unique twist at the end. In true Frederick Forsyth tradition, each short has , good plot pacing and wonderful descriptions. Would certainly like to read more short stories by this author.
In the same was a Smith, he picks an area of the word he knows best for this set of short stories an pulls the reader in from the first paragraph.
First, a bit about my three favorites without giving away the stories: “Comeback” which is the first in the compendium is by far the best, showing us the flaws in the reasoning behind the plan to set up a murder for hire.
Remember to count your chickens.The final great story “There are no Snakes in Ireland” is a mastery of showing human relationships and how different cultures react and perceive the same bits of information.
My absolute favorite collection of short stories and a great accomplishment by the author. All the stories herein succeeds in keeping the interest, twisting and surprising, while staying on the right side of disbelief. No-one will read this one and then fail to mention "No snakes in Ireland", which is wonderful, but there are 9 more great ones as well. Recommended for reading aloud also!
I'm a real sucker for short stories and this book did not let me down. These I found were Forsyth at his writing best with some great lines and plenty of wit in some of the tales... from the retired bomb disposal officer to the wealthy underworld entrepreneur/gangster the characters are splendid and believable concoctions from Forsyth's imagination. A good book.
This book includes four short stories by Frederick Forsyth:No ComebacksThere are some days...A Careful ManSharp PracticeIt was very short and easy for me to understand the plots so I could read it very quickly even when I was too tired to do anything.
A collection of wonderful, unforgettable short stories. Some, like the title story, appear to be studies or sketches for full-length novels. Others, such as "Used in Evidence," are perfect gems, with nothing more to be added.
All the krimi stories were really impressive with surprising end. But two last - "A Careful Man" and "Sharp Practice" weren't really krimis and I knew from the beginning how this story ends.
Verdict: Not Recommended This is a collection of 10 short stories – themed around deceit and revenge and blackmail (as the cover of the book suggests). But only 3 of them caught my attention and lived up to the claim. No Comebacks, There are no Snakes in Ireland and Used in Evidence are indeed compulsive and surprising. The detail did not work in the author’s favor, at least not for me. Going through 25 pages of (pointless) detail, only to not be surprised by the ending, leaves you disappointed.
Can't possibly explain how much I enjoyed reading this book. Read it during a very difficult and dreary time; few pages everyday after too much of mental exhaustion, and it has been a great relief. There are very few books, this included, that give you the feeling of pure enjoyment.The first story alone, though I enjoyed the rest, deserves five stars.
I never heard of Forsyth writing short stories and when this one crossed the shelf, I could not resist picking it up.No Comeback is a compilation of ten stories by the master story teller. Does he manage to bring in the same detailing like he does in his regular thrillers? -You Bet.All stories except one were excellent.Goodread only if you have loved reading Forsyth previously as his habit of meticulously detailing a crime and happening of a crime can bore you to death !!!
An excellent collection of short stories by Mr. Frederick Forsyth, all loaded with intrigue and ending with fiendishly clever plot twists.
The stories also give good insight into the societies and cultures of 20th century England, Northern Ireland, and Republic of Ireland alikeA couple of minor nitpicks:(1) "Used In Evidence" ends with a bit of a "WTF?" unresolved feel.(2) On p.
I thought these ancient short stories were really good.
Three short stories are collected here, each tightly wound with tension, logic and suspense.
Set in Britain, Forsyth's investigations dwell upon the fine art of planned homicide.
Plots are built carefully: a protagonist is introduced and defined, a motive is created, and events ensue with moribund rigor.
He falls for a married vixen and hatches a plot to murder her cumbersome husband.
But his best-laid plan to retain the services of a professional assassin goes astray in a macabre manner.
Forsyth's wickedly wry style.
I put this done for several years.
I only exclude the last story because it was a little predictable.The other stories had such a reminiscent flavor of O.
Henry, who I read many years ago.
He uses a similar turn of irony in these stories.If I have a favorite story, and I'm not sure that I do, it may be "Used in Evidence".
In this story, a man is smeared in the Sunday paper and he wants to sue the reporter for libel.
How to get back at the reporter?
Our hero finds a way.These stories were just delicious.
An OK read, really.
Mr Forsyth tries to shove the twist-in-the-end plot twist in every damn story, Thing is, it works with some and fails miserably with others.
Case in example being that story of the judge getting conned.
It was so plain obvious the priest wasn't who he was and that the other dude was playing him but the author had to drag the reader into an unnecessary court room scene and then the equally flat anti-climax.
Pick this book if you are broke at a second hand mart to satiate that month-end yearning for a dose of fiction.
Your money and time will be well spent reading something better if the situation is otherwise.
I really enjoyed this book. I believe that anyone would enjoy you can short stories even if they are not spy enthusiasts. Each story has its own unique setting and characters all of them completely believable and Each story ends with a twist the reader could not imagine. I highly recommend this book.
Really good, really quick read. The book consists of 10 short stories, most involving some form of revenge. Every story kept my attention, and the writing was clear and interesting.My favorite story, by far, is Privilege.The book is clever, and definitely worth a read.
GFrederick Forsyth is one of my favorite authors. This is a book of short stories, not my favorite favorite literary form. These stories were 'Forsythian.' 'Favrian' is to football what 'Forsythian' is to literature. Both men are at the top of their game. (Brett, that one was for you!).
I started this one but didn't get to finish it. However: these stories, written largely in the 1970's, are a LOT of fun! Very exciting read. I will finish this one soon, I hope. (Tip: Check out Forsyth's 'The Afghan' and 'The Veteran').
The title story is without doubt one of the best short stories ever written....gives a whole new meaning to the term 'down to the wire'
A fantastic collection of short stories, each with their own particular flavour
the first short story in the book, "no comebacks" will stun you, well, you cant stop reading the others after the 1st one!
A solid collection of short stories, each with a nice twist. A masterful storyteller.
These stories are fantastic. One of the few collections I reread occasionally.
While those are being finished, there is another one coming off the ferry the day after, and the man watching from top of a hill does not know about the first one, so his plan to rob a truck full of Cognac goes awry in a spectacular way, and his intended customers the IRA related north Ireland men let him go alive only with threat of never ever contacting them or else, having discovered the brandy is missing and his truck is full of manure for roses rejected in Belgium as even the papers declare which he never looked at.He now has to deal with the driver, the comrades in theft and the truck - he takes the truck, and not being used to drive one with a trailer has an accident compounded by a police car driving up right at the time he was planning to get away from the angry farmer he was unfortunate enough to collide with.
