https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114982.The_Ruby_in_the_Smoke
You say that Pullman struggles with figurative language and that he doesn't find his own voice and I have to say...
what exactly do you mean by 'figurative language' and how is he struggling with it?
Pullman pulls off a YA adventure without dumbing it down and his voice is clearly an intelligent and political and subtle one.
she fits perfectly within her time and still manages to stand out in her own particular way.You say the characters are flat and uninteresting; I say we must have read different books!
don't challenging times mean a person has to do a challenging thing or two, something they very well may regret?
i read this trilogy approximately 7.5 million times when i was younger. so good. and it taught me all i know about opium use. no kidding.
With a subtitle of "A Sally Lockhart Mystery," one might expect the first installment of said series to be about a girl who restores pinched puppies to their rightful dowdy owners.
The Ruby in the Smoke introduces Sally, a self-made woman already at 16 years old, with an accidental death and a call to action.
This makes the book extra-engaging for two reasons: 1.) Sally's quick-thinking, independent woman ways get her branded a heathen from the very start.
I'm a big fan of Pullman's His Dark Materials trilogy, so I thought I would give this a try.
Heck, I even liked the Golden Compass movie (two words--Daniel Craig).
This is what librarians call "young adult" literature i.e.
"for teenagers." As such, I find it a bit disturbing.
Set in Victorian London, Sally Lockhart is an orphan (of course)who falls in with a Dickensian cast of characters to solve her father's murder.
It doesn't even occur to her to try to solve the riddle...she's too busy embarking on a career as an accountant!
Pullman should stick to insulting religion.
My private games tended to involve a pencil and paper and the question “How would I run this as a self-supporting enterprise?”) When lately it occurred to me that a story idea I’ve been playing with very much harks back to this, I thought I’d pick up a second-hand copy and see if I liked it as much as I remembered.This is a book for my hypothetical future daughter, for a start.
Naturally I think she’s marvellous and I want my hypothetical future daughter to understand that good book-keeping and cheerfully volunteering to help with things are also character traits that can go with being a hero.
Truth be told, I expected something more, but it was nonetheless a truly enjoyable read.
Actual rating 3.5/5 stars.This is the first instalment in the Sally Lockhart quartet, which is a Victorian-era series following amateur sleuth, Sally Lockhart, as she attempts to solve the mysteries of London's dark underbelly, as well as those muddying her own past.I really enjoyed putting my observation skills to the test, along with protagonist Sally, and getting an introduction to the other memorable characters that joined in with her detecting.
This novel provided a pretty vast cast, but all had their own distinct parts to play in solving the mystery that entwines all their lives, and so none felt surplus to the narrative.
Sally Lockhart is an orphan during the 1879s in London.
She begins to discover the truth about her father, while being menaced by some very creepy characters.I enjoyed this far more than the Golden Compass books, as the narrative wasn't marred by the high whine of Pullman's anti-Narnia axe being ground.
The narrative voice dips into condescension here and there, but that actually fits period literature for younger readers, and the atmosphere of London's darker reaches was vivid and evocative.It was a fun three hour read, but didn't leave me with the desire to search out more, though if they come my way I will.
I'm a big fan of 'His Dark Materials' and 'Ruby in the Smoke' is set in a similar Victorian world, but without the steampunk or magical elements.
It's a murder mystery where teenage orphan Sally Lockhart searches for her father's killer and tries to discover his connection to the Ruby of the title and the significance of his last warning to her - 'Beware the seven blessings.' At around 200 pages it was a quick read.
The writing is not quite as sophisticated as 'His Dark Materials', but is still really good and captures the Victorian turn of phrase very well.
Which even with no dialogue still commands a presence in any scene it is in - read the descriptions of the locations Sally and her companions find themselves in you will see what I mean).But what the story - well that as usual would give spoilers something I will not do, however the story does travel at a pace and although it is presented for a certain reading group I would not dismiss it (something Pullman has campaigned against was labelling books for specific reading ages or genders).
Along with Sally Lockhart you have a number of supporting characters of whom vary in depth and back story - it would be good to see how these people grow and mature throughout the series.
The main character gets along with everyone and always finds satisfying solutions to any momentary setback.The only problems such super-protagonists can't solve are those which they don't yet know the details of, so Pullman gives us a faux-mystery to keep the character in the dark, but requires too many leaps for the reader to be able to puzzle things out.
I first stumbled on this as an audiobook, and decided to reread because I needed a book written by an author named "Philip" for a challenge. It was just as much fun as I remembered. Very different from Pullman's other, more famous series, this one is really a piece of Victorian pulp fiction. I will definitely be tracking down the sequels.
I was eager to read this book because I truly enjoyed the Shadow in the North some years ago, believing it was the first in the series and later I discovered there was a previous book.In her first adventure, Sally finds herself in the middle of a quite complicated situation involving murder, deceit, ambition and danger, but she also meets good friends and starts to develop her character and discovers that she is a strong girl who can help others and overcome the situation.I read this book really fast, has a very good pacing and Pullman keeps the suspense for the whole novel.
The characters are written nicely, it reads fast and the intrigue is truly great.
If I read this when I was a teen, I would have probably gobbled it up!
But when you read something like this after you've read Pullman's Greatest Masterpiece, it's just hard to think of it too highly.So basically, read it, but read it before you read His Dark Materials xD otherwise, it's a great book!
When her father is drowned in suspicious circumstances in the South China Sea, Sally soon finds herself in terrible danger too - and at the rotten heart of it all lies the deadly secret of the ruby in the smoke.I found he has a great way to describe characters and setting, I could almost see Sally and the Garlands and Mrs Holland going about the streets of London.
On the other hand I really liked Jim and Rosa and would really like to know what happened to Adelaide.The bad guys are really bad, namely the infamous Mrs Holland but it seems she manages to hurt everybody except Sally, who is supposedly the real target!
This is one of the best historical fictions I've ever read, right up there with Anne of Green Gables and Love Comes Softly. I loved its imagination and brilliant, vivid scenery.
In The Ruby In The Smoke: A Sally Lockhart Mystery, his teenage heroine is encouraged to use drugs to fill in the plot-holes of her life, and she shoots and kills an evil pirate, with a gun she had locked and loaded in her handbag.
(In fact, because of this book, I can't get the setting out of my head, and have followed with Jonathan Strange & Mr Norrell).As you might expect, there are several Victorian-y or "Dickensian" moments in The Ruby..., including some very lucky coincidences and an inheritance plot.
Tell you what though - I'd want to hang out with the totally-rad-actual-YA that did read the Sally Lockhart mysteries...Yeah, we'd be friends...
Along the way, she befriends an office boy Jim Taylor, and photographer Frederick Garland, and his sister Rosa, who also lead fairly unconventional lives, and in whose home, she finds a life very different from one she’s been leading so far with her aunt.This was a fun read with definite shades of the Blue Carbuncle, and the Sign of the Four, which made it all the more interesting for me.
Sally is a girl with great spunk and some interesting skills, and a pretty likeable character as are Jim Taylor and the Garlands, and Trembler.
But, in the end, this was yet another example of a book I bought for the opening lines alone.On a cold, fretful afternoon in early October, 1872, a hansom cab drew up outside the offices of Lockhart and Selby, Shipping Agents, in the financial heart of London, and a young girl got out and paid the driver.
It should be noted that Pullman published a fourth volume almost ten years after THE RUBY IN THE SMOKE, but it is less of a direct sequel and more a companion novel to the original trilogy.Sally Lockhart is so very far from your average 16-year-old.
This is not a bad book, but it did not really stir my imagination.
It was ok, but I found it a bit bland.Sally is likeable enough and overall the characters are fine, but as a villain I just did not find Mrs Holland that credible.
I did not find the mystery in this book all that interesting and I found myself just wanting to finish this book without really caring that much about what happened, which is a shame.Having said that, it is not badly written and I am sure many people will enjoy this book.
It is simply not for me and this book will not be going back on my shelf.
Bware darling." Little does Sally know that her quest to understand this message, to figure out what the mysterious Seven Blessings are, who Marchbanks is, will lead to devastating revelations about her past.
From the onset of the book (really, from the first paragraph introducing Sally Lockhart), I fell in love with the characters and the writing, with its universal omniscient - aka, the "Little Did She Know" foreshadowing/opinion - style.
Instead of forced or affected, this writing choice feels very much like a Victorian novel, and imbues a sly character to the narration and some effective foreshadowing for twists to come as Sally and her friends unravel the mystery of the Maharajah's (cursed) missing ruby.
È stato tutto quello che mi ero sempre immaginata :3Splendido!
I thought this was a rather smashing YA historical mystery, with a marvellous young female protagonist and some great Dickensian villains. The audio was exceptionally well narrated by Anton Lesser, so would definitely recommend that format.I read this for the Book Riot Read Harder Challenge task to read "The first book in a new-to-you YA or middle grade series."
Questo è il primo volume della serie dedicata a Sally Lockhart, composta da quattro romanzi.
Il fascino di Pullman resiste, anche se non me la sentirei mai ora di assegnare cinque stelline a questo libro.
La protagonista, Sally Lockhart appunto, è rimasta recentemente orfana di padre ed è decisa a scoprire la verità sulla sua morte, nonché a sfuggire alle grinfie dell'acidissima zia con cui ora è costretta a vivere.
Non aspettatevi nulla di simile alle oscure materie: qui la trama è molto semplice, ma il romanzo rimane una buona opera di intrattenimento.

Throughout the year of 2014, I told myself I'd re-read some of my favourite books from my childhood.
Even the slightest of details can hint at the final ending of the book.Philip Pullman really is the master storyteller.
I love that.The plot is engaging and unique and although everything is tied up neatly at the end, there are some loose threads that aren't explained which makes you want to read the next few books in the series.
As if you wouldn't want to anyway, Philip Pullman is a genius.
This is the first Sally Lockhart story that I have read, and it probably won't be the last.In the beginning, it was difficult for me to believe in the strength and forthrightness of this sixteen year old.
However, the more that I followed Sally around the streets of London, the more convincing she was, and the more that I lived her dangerous adventures alongside her.There are some very kind and generous characters in this book, and they form strong alliances with Sally to eventually get to the truth behind the mysteries surrounding the death of her sea-faring father.
This book is a refreshing departure for Philip Pullman, for those of us who are only acquainted with  His Dark Materials.
I'd recommend it for adults and mature teenagers with a taste for dark mystery.
In fact, the only reason I can't give this book four stars is that parents need to be very cautious about the age and emotional maturity of children who read it.
But in my opinion, in spite of often being billed as children's books, this and Pullman's other works are better suited for adults.
Read this quite a few years ago. I liked it, but the ending let me down a bit. The fact that the heroine huffs opium seemed edgy at the time. It was a cool adventure tale and I enjoyed it. After attempting and DNFing His Dark Materials, I think of Pullman as a pretty overrated author. But this one was enjoyable enough.
I found the resolution kind of unrewarding. Some of it was a bit far-fetched. There were a lot of things that went unexplained, and there were also "hints" that could have been employed that were not. But it was good, so I'll see what the second installment has to offer.
