https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/285899.Two_in_the_Far_North
A classic tale of Alaskan frontier life, with some of the greatest champions of the wilderness, Mardy and Olaus Murie. Margaret Murie is fearless and this is her account of her travels from age 9 when her family first moves to Alaska, into an account of life with her biologist husband as he tracks the caribou and other species. Sled dog travel across ice, very occasional humans, survival during extreme cold and extreme mosquitos, childbirth, it's all here!
I read about halfway, before realizing that nothing was actually happening in the book and the writing was not enough to carry the book on its own.
I've been reading books about the north, Coming into the Country by John McPhee being the best by far, and this one just didn't sustain my interest.
The writing didn't really captivate my imagination and up to halfway in the book, there's nothing political or really hinting at her legacy.
Just a couple moving through the bush and learning the ways of the wild.
When I was in high school and working in a grocery store, I would pour over every new issue of Alaska Magazine and dream about being out in the wilderness chasing caribou, moose and bears, banding birds of all sorts, studying plant life, and living off the land.
This book is the author's account of several trips into the Alaska wilderness with her husband, noted wildlife biologist Olaus Murie.
The other trips took place in 1956 and 1961 and also involved documenting and describing area wildlife and plants.
The author makes this much more than an account of these trips.
Margaret describes what it is like to live in the town that is only 10 years old after the gold rush of 1897-98.The Second trip was after she had been to the lower 48 for college education and then moved back to her family in Fairbanks.
Using dog sleds and boats and walking she describes the events and plants and animals, all this time with a 9 month old baby (on the second trip).
Almost all are helpful and friendly.Thrity years later after having lived in Jackson Hole Wyoming is some sort of wildlife management position, Margaret’s husband, Olaus, is asked to make a trip back to a remote part of Alaska for father study.
This was a fun read. You gotta hand it to a woman who goes exploring in Alaska by dog sled in her early 20s with her brand new husband at the turn of the century! There is nothing spectacular about the book or her writing, but just the life that Margaret Murie led (and how humble and matter of fact she is about it) makes the book a pleasure to read. Plus, she's so incredibly appreciative of the opportunity she had to experience Alaska the way she did. Really enjoyable read.
This made it especially lovely to read about Murie and her husband in the vicinity of the Coleen, which is near where Heimo and his wife spend much of their time.What makes this book even more fascinating is Murie's simple joy in everything that Alaska offers.
In a time when wives were expected to look beautiful and keep house, Mardy made sure to pack trousers and flannel shirts and books into her "practical trousseau," and went intrepidly into the wilds of interior Alaska with her beloved.The descriptions of the unspoiled wilds are hardly to be believed, yet Murie transports her readers into the same valleys and rivers that she herself saw.
"Two in the Far North" tells the story of the intrepid (though she had no idea this term could be applied to her) Margaret Murie, who traveled with her husband across uncharted Alaska as he worked for the National Geological Service.
Because she sees herself as just being along for the ride, Murie's reflections on their travels are often endearingly simple - (she spends a ton of time recounting the meals she prepares for her husband and his team, which I suppose was seen as a woman's big contribution to an expedition like this).
Try and get the 35th Anniversary Edition with added info and foreward.An all time favorite book!!! Story begins when Margaret moves from Seattle to Alaska when she is 8 yrs old in 1910. Continues thru her education, marriage, honeymoon dogsledding and love of and adventures in the wilderness. SOO MUCH that has been preserved is largely because of their efforts. This book is written from a woman's perspective and yummy wonderful. On the cover it has a label "An American Wilderness Classic" I rate it an A.
This book will make you long for unspoiled nature while at the same time making you glad you don't have to deal with the mosquitos and other difficulties Mardy Murie braved while caring for her husband and family in the wilds of Alaska. This was before modern camping conveniences, and this woman was TOUGH!
I rarely never finish a book.
So I really have zero motivation to finish it.This book is basically a diary or a journal.
Repeat 30x.
I don't mean to diminish the book (I still gave it 3 stars), but there's really no story here.
The title should read "Two in the Far North: a detailed account of our travels through Alaska".If you love the outdoors and also want to learn more about how people lived in the beginning of the 20th century, then you might enjoy this.
I love the SUBJECT matter of this book.
Margaret relates how she and her wildlife biologist husband, met, married and then went to work to help preserve some of Alaska's wilderness.I still haven't finished it even though I love it.
and can't figure out what she's saying because since she was not really a creative-writer type, I had that happen to me about once every five pages, then I'll have to go to Google and look up the place or object she was referring to, to find out she was talking about.Example.
She, along with her biologist husband, Olaus, worked their entire adult lives advocating for the preservation of the land they loved.
Her husband's fieldwork over many decades exposed Mardy to a fascinating life few others can come close to replicating except vicariously through this classic.
Olaus was a founding member of The Wilderness Society in 1935 and Mardy was his wife and secretary.
After Olaus's death, Mardy continued to speak out for conservation.
I strongly recommend Two in the Far North to anyone with a love of wild places and the understanding of the need to preserve these unique places with strong laws.
I became fascinated with the Murie's after reading this. It will forever change how you look at Alaska. Margaret travels to Alaska as a young girl and falls in love with it primitive wildness. She meets her future husband, a wildlife biologist, and they fall in love and marry and become crusaders that ultimately save thousands of acres of wilderness. The writing is naive in that it is journal type entries but Mrs. Murie more than captures the majesty and romance of the Yukon in it's heyday in this wonderful book.Marsella
Wonderful, although I was in Honduras I felt transported to Alaska and it made me want to go there desperately. Also, it made me inspired to complain slightly less about my travails in the field...at least it didn't take weeks by dog sled to get to my sites! The book is basically a memoir about a woman who grew up in Alaska and then married a field biologist studying caribou and such and tramping around the wilds. She later became important in protecting the area and establishing and defending ANWAR.
A true story of a lady, raised in Alaska who becomes one of the biggest defenders of the environment of Alaska.I learned of this lady from a song that was written and performed by John Denver-I see Them Dancing- I did not know the book existedthe story tells of her upbringing in the Alaska frontier, her marriage to her biologist husband and their research trips into the wild.A great love story, but the story of a person dedicated to preserving the last frontier.
A memoir of Margaret (Mardy) Murie, famed Wilderness Preservationist and her husband, Olaus Murie, the father of modern elk management and multi-talented naturalist. It recounts her early years growing up on the Alaskan frontier in the early 20th century, and the life she shared with Olaus, exploring, studying and fighting for the preservation of Alaskan wilderness. An engaging read about two remarkable people.
Attempting to describe the incredible expanse and magesty of Alaska in words is meager. It was so fun for me to read about Mardy's explorations as I traveled to a few of those places too and could visualize and feel the tremendous spirit of the places. There is no place in the USA like Alaska! I am very grateful that so many acres have been preserved. Thanks for your contibutions toward these legal preservations.
I am a fan of the outdoors and love Alaska. This was an excellent story of what it was like to be true explorers before the days of Gore-Tex, GPS and cell phones.
It's amazing that Margaret Murie marched behind her husband, a wildlife biologist, into the wilds of Alaska and managed not only to endure but to thrive. One of my favorite memoirs.
This book is dangerous because it makes you want to drop everything and fly north for month long adventures.
Like Wallace Stegner, Maurdy Murie is another must read for all living in the great west
And what good stories they are.Even on expeditions she is at once both homemaker and adventurer.They returned at six o'clock and supper was ready - baked ham, mashed potatoes, creamed carrots, and apple pie.
Later in the book, in 1956, her husband and her joined a scientific expedition into the Brooks Range of Alaska.Here's what she says of that summer trip (her kids are all grown now, in fact Murie is awaiting news of a grandbaby while on this trip).By these little scenes and episodes, the hours were filled and enlivened.
I want to live that way at home also!Murie's memoir is a very engaging read especially if you wild places and adventure.
I want to go to Alaska
A book set in the wilderness.Margaret Murie "Mardy" was born in Seattle, but as a young girl moved with her mother and stepfather to Fairbanks, Alaska where she grew up and attended school.
She then returned to Fairbanks and was the second person to graduate from the University of Alaska.
She married noted biologist Olaus Murie not long after graduation and travel with him in very primitive conditions to do research in what would through their work become the Arctic Wildlife Range.
This book is about growing up in Fairbanks, leaving Fairbanks on the last mail run to visit her father, and three trips she made with her husband.
Simply written book by an amazing and inspirational woman - Margaret Murie and her husband were founders of the Wilderness Society and were outdoor enthusiasts, biologists, and wilderness protectors all of their lives. Great story.
Murie writes beautifully, bringing life to her memories of characters, friends, travels, animals and the most wonderful mountain valley, the Sheenjek.Margaret Murie and her biologist husband Olaus were, with a handful of friends, responsible for protecting most of Alaska under The Wilderness Act, and turning for the Sheenjek landscape into a National Arctic Refuge.Sadly, both are under attack from WY Congress-sub-human Liz Cheney who took part authorship in reversing protections for grizzly, wolverines and wolves -- now allowing barbaric, terrifying and maddening pain-causing, slow-death-causing trapping.
She and other Republicans are ruining Alaska as fast as they can, Trump again opening (against Obama's legacy) drilling in the Arctic Ocean.Read this book.
The author was born in Seattle, grew up in Alaska in the 1910's, married biologist Olaus Murie after she graduated from U of Alaska in 1924.
Olaus was a field biologist whose studies included caribou migrations way up in the Wrangell Mountains and the now famous Porcupine River.
These field studies were their honeymoon, the first year of their first son, their life.
The Muries were influential in establishing ecological boundaries that later served as political boundaries for Olympic National Park, Grand Teton, and many of the reserves and parks in Alaska.
Apparently this is the year of reading books about Alaska.
It was written in the 60s I think and you can tell, Murie writes about herself as "just a woman" a lot (as in, can't do as much as the men even when she clearly is) and how silly women are, which is pretty off putting to a modern reader.
Like the bill bryson book I read earlier I'd like this one more if it were shorter, I kind of cheated and skimmed the last 50 or so pages because while it was interesting I was also kind of over it.
Murie is kind of a badass and her husband made lots of cool pictures for the book.

I enjoyed this book.
The descriptions of the vistas, historical references and adventures were wonderfully captivating and took my imagination on a journey of wilderness adventure.
I love hiking, skiing and the mountains, so for me this book was fun and I could relate to her desire to enjoy and preserve nature.
I also enjoyed having to look up some of the nature and fauna that she described, learning new things brings me joy.
With so many visual descriptions, and indicating that they did in fact photograph and film so much of their travels, it was disappointing not to actually see what they saw.
