https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85622.Tales_of_a_Female_Nomad
The most tragicomic moment of complete un-self-awareness comes when the author reckons up what it would take to live in deep south Mexico for a year and decides it would be as little as $15,000!Honeybun, there are women raising five kids on one third of that where you were.
And they're lucky.If this had been a male writer and about martial arts, it would've been the book American Shaolin--except that he could actually be charmingly self-aware and funny.Most of her comments are things like: I went to see the mountains.
. .Sigh - I hear she wrote some lovely children's books.Don't mind me, I have PMS and teach Cultural Anthropology for a living.
This is one of those memoirs that is all about ME.
And that might be okay, if not for the fact that everyone is Gelman's book is infinitely more interesting than she.
It's like being stuck on a tour bus with a chatty guide who is more interested in telling you about her experiences than anything you're seeing.
Meanwhile, all the sights go streaming by.Gelman is the ultimate unreliable narrator -- she's kind of pushy, obnoxious, and self-centered, but thinks of herself as being interested only in the welfare of others.
While this could be put to good use in a piece of fiction, in a memoir it is merely tiresome.
She's also not a true nomad, having a good income from her books and being able to fly back to visit her children whenever she wanted, and staying in one place for years at a time without having to wash dishes for a living.
Which wouldn't have annoyed me so much if I'd expected this to be a memoir, but I expected it to be more about the places she visited.It just seemed that she was happy to insinuate herself into people's lives, always expecting them to accommodate her, but not noticing the disruption to their lives she was causing (like the women in Guatemala having to protect her from their husbands).
"I prefer soup kitchens to charity banquets" and "all my friends were too white and too American." But I kept reading.And I disliked her more.
The kind of mother who stops mothering when her kids reach 18, living a life where they cannot possibly contact her for help or support.
She kept saying rediculous things like, "I put on their native clothing, and I became ONE of them..." oh I seriously doubt that.
BUT I kept reading.I still don't like her.
But it doesn't change that what she did, leaving all security behind and navigating strangeness and discomfort, is amazing to read about.
Amazing and irritating, all at the same time.
I have read many of the other reviews of this book, and I guess I must have missed many of the things that other reviewers mentioned.
And my husband points out that I say that every single time I finish this book.
I met people I otherwise wouldn't have met, saw things I never would have seen, and experienced vicariously all of her ups and downs through these travels.With regard to a specific incident in the book that had many people reacting with near horror...the first time I read that, I reacted in a similar manner.
Another reviewer remarked, "This is one of those memoirs that is all about ME.
And that might be okay, if not for the fact that everyone is Gelman's book is infinitely more interesting than she.
Meanwhile, all the sights go streaming by.Gelman is the ultimate unreliable narrator -- she's kind of pushy, obnoxious, and self-centered, but thinks of herself as being interested only in the welfare of others.
While this could be put to good use in a piece of fiction, in a memoir it is merely tiresome."I couldn't have said it better!
I should have given up on the book well before I did.
Life as a confident independent woman has its rewards. Inspiring tales from the road and the kitchen, and makes me want to email Ms. Gelman, renew my passport, and pack a bag.
You are the first author who has made me turn to the back cover while reading and repeatedly flick your author photo with my finger while saying aloud, "You fat, stupid jerk!!" (why "fat", I don't know.
She is trying to cover up her shortcomings with a book about how great her life is, and brag, brag, brag until our eyes glaze over and we just don't care.7.
For the whole book she just loved anyone she came across -- oh wait, I mean, every single person loved HER, but she basically devoted a chapter to what an imbecile this Hans character was.
We all laughed at book club!
I disliked this book so much that I couldn't even finish it. It's a memoir - but written in present tense - which drives me crazy. The processing is superficial and dull.
I saw this book on an endtable at the home of two women...one of them had traveled fairly extensively - or so the masks on her walls implied. They were both in their early 30s.After reading almost straight through this book - I - well - I was inspired. I am not sure if the writing itself is brilliant...but what she DID is encouraging for people/women who haven't ....done.
But she comes to love the village and finds living a life of teaching english, cooking, hiking, dancing, speaking with the people in the village to be all that she hoped it would.After two months, her husband asks for two more, and she goes to Guatemala.
She takes this time to sell all of her belongings to him (they come up with a monetary value for all their possessions and he gives her half of that), set up a separate bank account and automatic bill pay, hire a bookkeeper, and begin her life as a nomad.She visits a slew of countries - the politically torn Nicaragua, many islands in Indonesia (she uses Bali as a primary base for 8 years), Thailand, New Zealand, and her stories make you want to visit all of them, and make you want to meet some of the same people that she does.
I read this the year I was commuting to my job at a chocolate shop, so 2001 I guess. I ended up buying it again along the way to read again. A light book about self-discovery through travel.
i finished it more out of determination than enjoyment.other particular grievances i had were the author QUITE enjoying it when some village says that she is a gift from God. she then keeps bringing it up, she can't help wondering if every freakin person she meets "Thinks I am a gift from God too?" it got to the point where i took issue with the author and had to begin doing dramatic readings of particularly obnoxious passages for my traveling companions.and of course i almost lost it when she describes her great self-sacrifice for her daughter while they travel the Galapagos Islands together.
She basically travels to live in other cultures and integrate herself into their daily life.
I find the favor bank idea interesting.
Here's an excerpt, "The 'Favor Bank' concept, asserts that the whole world is one giant “Favor Bank.” We go through life making deposits whenever we do favors for people and that means that whenever we do favors for people, and that means that whenever we need a favor, we’re entitled to a withdrawal.
It’s just as important to take out as it is to put in, because each time we accept a favor, we’re allowing someone to make a deposit.
Four stars because I love travel writing from a female perspective.
I relate to Rita a lot as she discusses her anthropology background and how this affects her approach to travel and interacting with locals.
I also appreciate her sense of adventure and ability to laugh at herself.
But I do agree with others that her writing is very self-indulgent and I rolled my eyes a few times.
I felt the same way about Eat, Pray, Love.
I wish I had the money and lack of responsibility to live and travel like that, but I don't, so I have to read about others doing it!
Ok, i admit, I have not finished reading this book yet.
She is a bit long winded and slightly self centered in the fact that her focus seams to mainly be concerned with herself.
She really lost my will to continue on in the chapter where she talked about the Zapotec village.
Her hostess was beaten regularly by her husband...which was common in that village.
I might finish it at a later period, just because i crave knowledge on places i've never been before, but the authors long winded, self infatuated ramblings were really hard to trudge through.
At the end of my flight, I realized I'd stumbled upon a little trove of adventurous, feminist travel writing.
Not unlike the premise of Eat, Pray, Love, the author begins her journey with a divorce from her husband, with whom she had shared a highly cultured urban lifestyle of privilege.
She also divorces the woman she had become in their 24 years of marriage, and joyfully re-unites with her younger self as she begins a spontaneous trip around the world.
This is an adventure, and is told like a story around a campfire.
To be able to get up and go, to leave your known world for a bit of the unknown, seems like a luxury that most of can't afford - either because of financial issues, or lack of time, or the responsibilities of real life that bind us to our homes.
What I liked about this memoir was Rita's personal journey.
I did find, however, that she never really explored why she felt the need to be away from her real family and substitute it with other family.
This woman just dove right in. OK, first she got a Masters in Anthropology to get a taste but then she dove right in. She completely immersed herself in the cultures. Lived in a remote Mexican village with the villagers. Went into the Indonesian forests and learned the language, no easy feat. Gave up her cushy LA lifestyle and never looked back.
While the concept is quite amazing and Gelman's courage is inspiring, the composition of this novel is disappointing.
The fact that Gelman is a children's book writer is quite evident.
This book reads like a mediocre college application essay.
I enjoyed reading of places I had never before heard of and would recommend this to anyone interested in world travel.
As some other readers commented, I was also disappointed in Gelman's self centeredness and lack of action in actually trying to realistically help the people she met.
I really liked this book.
The author is in her forties and her husband has decided he needs some time away from her.
She is forty eight and it is the mid 1980's.
So she leaves.
Her children are grown and she wants to live in different cultures.
With very few plans, she ends up in Mexico.
This it how it begins her life for the next 15 years traveling to many different cultures, living with families and making extraordinary friendships.
Rita Golden Gelman is an author of children's books but this is her story of the life she chose.
This was a book club selection otherwise I probably wouldn't have finished it.I found it frustrating.
Here is a writer in interesting parts of the world and what I mostly learn about is her.
If you are going to talk about yourself, you need to make it interesting, not just a string of descriptions and anecdotes.
And all her bleating about poor starving children doesn't really make much of an impression when she does little or nothing about it.I also found a, how can I put this?, smug, self congratulatoey tone to the book.
The writer is pretty much able to indulge in flights home whenever.
I loved this book.
I loved the flow with which Rita writes.
Frankly I am jealous of Rita's nomadic life style.
She has truly tasted the rich flavors of the world.
Something I have always dreamed of doing.
Seeing and learning about other cultures around the world and in my own backyard.
I will remain in awe of Rita and her lifestyle and learn from her writings and travels and lessons.
Thank you Madam Nomad Rita for writing and enriching the many lives that you have touched personally and through your books.
I continue to dream and learn from others.........
This book is about friendship, about people of completely different cultures and how simple it really is for friendship to grow between all of us. In the author's words:"Communication is not difficult because we all share the sensations of human emotions, the need to affirm our sameness and the universal capacity to laugh."I highly recommend this book. Its message is wonderful. The stories told are very interesting.
This book was thrilling! Rita took me on a trip to many countries in a way that I would want to experience the countries. She lived the lives of the people of the countries as closely as she could have. I envy her the experience. I have lived briefly in several countries and for an extended time in one country, but I think I always was still a tourist, as I did not truly live the life of a citizen of the country. This book ends in 2001, when Rita was 62, I wonder what she is doing today?
This is an amazing, astounding book! I couldn't put it down! Rita Golden Gelman is still wandering the world and you can follow her at http://www.ritagoldengelman.com/. I called Rita and she came to my home to do a book group at my home in Atlanta. What a great day! What a great woman! What a great story!
I will admit that at first I had a feeling of resentment towards the author because she, as a white female woman, has been able to enter into other cultures and become somewhat of a chameleon.
The funny thing is that I have experienced that as well and I know that it stems from being white and not being categorized or judged quite as harshly as if I were black or Indian or any other race/ethnicity trying to dive into another culture.
I believe that 100% and after traveling on my own I have to say that the best moments were when I trusted others and decided to try out new things.
How the women in the village avoid her like the plague, until finally, a kindly woman encourages Gelman to dress like the natives, and then that world, too, is opened to her.
I know some readers disliked Gelman’s voice in this book, but I kept feeling like she would not only be someone I’d love to sit down and visit with, but also someone I would genuinely like.
And that’s saying a lot because she and I obviously sit on opposite ends of the political spectrum.This book covers a lot of ground.
She visits roughly a dozen countries and has dozens of page-turning experiences.
Sometimes she irritated me with her very American idea that she can just waltz into poor countries and set up a home AND that people will invite her to stay in their homes with them.
I realize it's probably very American of me to want advance notice when people stop by for the night and to be wary of strangers from different countries randomly asking me for a place to stay but...
Not five stars, as it's not a literary masterpiece (or that's not for me to decide), but memorable and exceptional on that level.Merged review:I loved this book.
So much so, I found myself crying while finishing it this morning, and walked around the house w/ it a bit (in addition to Nikki Giovanni's Bicycles: Love Poems), so I could remember it and keep myself in its good company.
She has a great story.
She's truly strengthened my faith in the human spirit, on an international and personal level.
I'm going four stars, instead of five, only because I would reserve five stars for a literary masterpiece, or something truly exceptional.
This is lovely, exceptional, and a great experience...
