https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/764746.The_Brave_Cowboy
The descriptions of the New Mexico landscape give the desert, the mountains, the rocks and sand a sanctity not afforded human beings.Abbey has a reverence for the parts of America remote and untainted by the touch of man."The Cowboy" - John W.
An anachronism, living life as a cowboy during a time when there are few ranches still owned by individuals as opposed to corporations.The law and the square johns view "The Cowboy" as an anarchist.
A danger to the American society of the 1950s, when this book was written and first published.When he comes down from the mountains where he's been working as a sheep-herder, because where else can a man find a ranch to cowboy in modern America?
Note:found this book when reading World, Chase me Down. https://www.publishersweekly.com/pw/b...
Never doubt the universality of the basic premise here--there is inescapable tension between the needs of the individual and the requirements of living in relationship.The plot elements are well-conceived; it's a great story.
Unhappily, Abbey has a greater feel for the character of the place than he has for the character of the people.
The story bogs down because the focus constantly shifts away from the human element, into the physical world or into the philosophic world.These shortcomings were overcome and put in clear relief with the coming of a writer and film production team that understood the need for keeping the focus on people.
The film started not only Douglas but Bill Bixby (My Favorite Martian), Walter Mattheu, George Kennedy, Gena Rowlands, Carroll O'Connor (Archie Bunker) as the truck driver with an ending the only Ed could write and one Ed Abbey as a police man/deputy, oh and the Sandia Mountains and the city of Albuquerque (renamed Duke City).
Some cowboys rebel, other cowboys, like the sheriff, reluctantly blended in.This story is not for every one, especially city folk.Both the film and the book have characters who spent time in Abbey's other books.
Unlike many writings and sequels, the characters evolved (e.g., the General appears as a Colonel in an earlier story).
Here is the last cowboy, doing his damndest to live off the grid and maintain a lifestyle and worldview that only exists in Western movies and books.
He lives by the "Code"--meaning an internal moral and ethical integrity that is solid as rock.
It has been years since I saw the movie based on the book, "Lonely are the Brave" with Kirk Douglas.
I have since learned that this was Kirk Douglas's favorite film.
With this book, Abbey reminds me a bit of Ken Kesey and Ernest Hemingway.
It also demonstrates to me that Abbey was more than a little bit of a "friendly anarchist."
Abbey wrote his MA thesis on the topic of justifications of violence in the anarchist movement.
The philosophy department at University of New Mexico awarded him the MA in 1956.
Abbey spent the rest of his life working on the theme of his thesis.
The theme of independent men trying to live in a world being undermined by corporate greed and dim-witted governance appears in this novel no less than in "Fire on the Mountain" and "The Monkey Wrench Gang." As in all his writing, the vivid descriptions of New Mexican terrain make this novel as beautifully poetic as it is politically astute.
Basis for the movie Lonely are the Brave. Jack Burns, the anachronism, travels to town to break his buddy out of jail. Unfortunately this is mid-20th century Albuquerque, and cowboys breaking their buddies out of jail just don't have much luck. His friend is in for helping illegal immigrants - not a typical cowboy crime. Jack remains true to the code that says you stick with your buddies and family to the end, tries breaking his friend out, fails, and then runs for the hills and Mexico beyond. That's where the truck load-full of toilets comes into the story.
Edward Abbey writes a fine story about the cowboy Edward Burns and his loathing of government and the restrictions that law places on man's free will. Taking place in the New Mexican desert, the tale follows Burns' purposeful arrest, his attempt to spring his companion from the clink, his own subsequent escape and the chase that the law gives him into the mountains, where he eventually evades his pursuers and...well, you're just going to have to read to find out. 4 stars because, even though I love all things Abbey, the ending really pissed me off (cue Cartman).
I'm thoroughly surprised I got through this book omg it's so monotonous which surprised me cuz it's Ed Abbey and it's about an anarchist cowboy?? And like I know I should take in account that it was published in 1956 but it was absurdly racist and the boring plot wouldn't let me overlook that so... I did like parts of it and still like Abbey as an author but it was overall disappointing and cheesy like.. Wow. Hard to get through.
I read this in the cutest old western edition (thanks Steve!). And it's a cute old western. Except written by Edward Abbey, and so has a loveably heavy handed ending relating to the demise of the American west, and a certain kind of man. The characters are all fully told, which is refreshing in a chase novel.
I loved this one. Kept it to read again. Abbey has a cool style.
Eh, I've loved Abbey books, both fiction and non- but this one was lacking the gritty humor and brazen environmentalism I'm use to. Barely finished it, and the ending was tragic but predictable.
Lorsqu'il apprend que son ami Paul vient d'être incarcéré pour avoir refusé de se soumettre à ses obligations militaires, Jack décide de se faire arrêter.
Retrouver Paul en prison et s'évader ensemble, tel est son plan.
Mais il est loin d'imaginer que son évasion va déclencher une traque d'une telle ampleur.
Seuls sont les indomptés est un chef-d'oeuvre jamais encore traduit d'Edward Abbey, auteur insoumis et emblématique de l'Ouest américain, qui dévoile avec cette échappée sauvage le prix à payer pour la liberté.
L'un des plus grands auteurs de l'Ouest américain.
tEdward Abbey (1927-1989) est l'un des plus célèbres écrivains de l'Ouest américain.
The name of the town: Home, PAAnyway: The story of a modern-day cowboy (the book was written in the 1950s) who likes the wide open spaces, and doesn't like government.
The cowboy "breaks into" jail (commits a "crime" and gets arrested) so that he can break himself and a friend (who is in jail already) out of jail.
They file through one of the bars on the window, but his friend won't leave.
Our cowboy leaves anyway, and is chased by the law over half of the Albuquerque area.
The best parts of the book, that are really a are a piece of art, are the ones where the typical models and actions of western literature are contrasted by the elements that belong to our contemporary society. Unfortunately, the reading gets kind of chunky in the central part, with all the social and philosophical brooding that, albeit interesting, slows too much the narrative. That said, it is one of the best western novels that I've ever read.
Wow - Edward Abbey wrote fiction too! And it's every bit as good as his non-fiction. An excellent picture of real, old-fashioned, American and Western values (not the Colorado Springs kind!). Full of inspiration to keep fighting the good fight against the government and modernity, hopeless as it is in the end.
I enjoyed the story, but there was too much emphasis on descriptions and not enough on the actual building of the character. There were a lot of details that seemed irrelevant and confused the reader instead of aided in understanding. It is a sad hero’s journey that I feel is a grand farewell to the age of cowboys.
I don’t know if this is sacrilege, but I found this book to be much more well-written than The Monkeywrench Gang, and with a clearer and less heavy-handed message. The plot was almost excessively simple but enjoyable, and the characters here seemed a bit less goofy that in TMG, and as usual Abbey’s love of all things natural comes through in the best way possible.
I read a large number of books, and this is among the best. The world is changing around Jack Burns, a good hearted cowboy that is out of step with the world. The Kirk Douglas movie Lonely Are the Brave follows the book fairly close. Warning though, it is not a feel good book.
Rather slow, painful descent into hopelessness - for the reader that is, as the main character never gives up. I found the book way too accuratly depressing to enjoy it - like someone sticking a finger in a core wound.
The first half of this novel is so deep in extreme stern typing that it makes for heavy reading.. I had to remind myself it was by Edward Abbey and would get better.. And it did the second half is a page flipping cliffhanger with a cataclysmic surprise grand finale. Really enjoyed it, in the end.
A story only Abbey could tell. Written in his lyrical prose, with long descriptions of the natural world in the Southwest. An odd story about a cowboy avoiding/resisting the government and civilization. I wouldn’t recommend it as your first Abbey fiction but for fans of his.
2017 Popsugar Challenge - Involving travel.
Didn't care for this one.
Edward Abbey could describe a moment so well, I really feel like I am in it.
I just don't think he is nearly as observant of, moved by, or sensitive to people as he is by the land, ideas, or his own experience.Abbey's characters in the Brave Cowboy, while interesting, are not fully realized and feel a little one-dimensional.
For the first time in nearly two days and nights he felt himself to be a whole and living creature, a man again and not a derelict stumbling through a mechanical world he could not understand." Jack's friend, Paul Bondi, is in jail for refusing to sign up for Selective Service.
When stock wrangler Jack Burns heard tell that his old friend Paul had gotten himself thrown in the can, he knew there was only one thing to do: get himself thrown in so he could arrange for a jailbreak.
Burns isn't a lantern-jawed hero on a white horse, but he holds to an older sense of honor, and he counts among his friends more recognizably 'good' characters.
It's a novel that still rewards the reading, but almost 50 years after its publication in 1956, it seems somewhat dated, while "Desert Solitaire" remains as fresh and relevant as if it were written yesterday.Abbey was still in his twenties when he wrote this novel, and its point of view is that of a young man full contradictory passions and attitudes.
The brave cowboy of the title, a prototypical figure on horseback, is the central character in maybe half the pages of the novel.
But that was Abbey, an outspoken man who wasn't afraid to contradict himself.To its credit, the novel can be read on more than one level.
I don't have to agree with what the characters decide to do, if I understand how they got there, but I don't find a lot of basis for what the "hero," as such, was doing.
I hated the ending, but there was no real other way to go about it.
There was no other way for it to end.
I think there's a lot more to dig out of this than I got out of one reading, but I can't say that I would read it again just to find out what those things are.
When his friend refuses to escape, the Cowboy climbs out of the jail and leads the police forces on a deadly chase that ends in disaster.What's really troubling about this story is that the two friends are Korean veterans -- soldiers in a war that was undeclared.
The Cowboy's movements out on the range are free and clear of these constraints, but when he ventures across the highway and into town where his friend lives with his wife, the Cowboy runs into serious trouble.
The over-zealous actions of the county and state government has not only killed two helicopter pilots during the chase, but the Cowboy must now be incarcerated for several other more serious offenses.
