https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23491315-the-chestry-oak
Five-year-old Prince Michael of Chestry has known the repression of the Nazi regime for most of his life; while his father pretends to go along with the ideas and plans of the men Hitler has put in charge, a necessary acquiescence if he wants to continue living, Michael notices the gloomy shadow that has descended over his home, and knows it is because of the unfriendly men who have come and changed things.
I love this book. Love, love, love, love, love, love. Get it? Got it. Good.Unfortunately, despite its grippingly dramatic (how's *that* for a cliched phrase?) story, style and illustrations, this book is quite rare and almost impossible to find for less than an arm and a leg. Which means I don't have a copy. Sadness.
I mean, I know history is subject to various inaccuracies due to various issues, but Seredy seems to want this book to be used in history class, not in literature, and that's just too much of a stretch, imo.Starts out very slow, imo.
So much Proud Brave Hungarians just like so many other works by Seredy.
The Americans, salt of the earth you know, are proud and brave, too.
And I'm not sure about Pop's action at the end (view spoiler)[because there are different kinds of oaks, and who's to say an American of whatever species could pass for a Hungarian?
I hope so, because Mr. Jones says almost everything I don't have time today to say.
I hope it's okay with the owner of the copy I'm currently borrowing, but I'm absolutely forcing my two eldest to read this book now.
This book deserves several re-readings because of the many themes and important messages of trust, loyalty, following what one knows to be right, being stalwart under trial, being open to love despite past hardship, remembrance, healing and the list could go on.
It has the aura of one of those classics one can read again and again, getting a little bit of a different message from each time.
This is a kid lit book from the late forties that I saw reviewed recently in a magazine, and decided for some reason to read. It is quite good and really satisfying. If you have kids who roar around the house looking for reading material, you might try this one on them. After all, it has the mother of all blurbs on the back cover -- "A masterpiece of childhood literature" -- Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II
This delightful story follows Michael, Prince of Chestry through WWII and beyond. A story of courage and hope told through the eyes of a child, this book has endearing characters and beautiful prose which made me tear up in almost every chapter. Thanks to my husband for recommending this book which is one of my new favorite children’s books.
Finally, I reread the book and if it is as favorable of a read as it was the first time, it usually becomes a favorite of mine.I started this book last Sunday and had the feeling that it could become a favorite.
Oh, there is a lot about horses in this book too!I don't want to give too much away, because I think everyone should read and enjoy the book on their own.
They all enjoyed it a lot with my husband and oldest son getting emotional as I did in many parts of the book.
The Chestry Oak is a tale of good and evil, of love and family, of hardships, of horses, and of the earth.
It tells the story of a young Hungarian prince's coming of age in a time of war, the German occupation of WWII, and of his eventual journey to an American home.
Never before has a book made me feel loss so deep, and life so bittersweet."All we know, Midnight.
The best of all we know.
For Chestry Valley and its master we loved.
For Pop and Mom and Tom. For the foals to come.
For yesterday and for all tomorrows, we dance the best we know.
I wasn't sure when I first started reading this book if I was going to like it.
But before long I was pulled into the story and didn't want to put it down.
When I reached the end, well, I wished it wasn't the end.
I wanted to watch the oak grow, meet the black foal, hear from overseas and so much more.
It was a look at WWII that I hadn't considered before mostly because I've never read much about Hungary during the war.
I may just have to go and read this book again.There were about 5-6 places I would have used my white-out, but it wasn't with me.
I love The Chestry Oak because it has a depth and profundity to it that I cannot put into words.
On its surface this is a fictional novel about a young Hungarian boy but it's true substance is so much more.
This books tackles the most significant issues of life; good and evil, past and future, calm, peace, and joy and hardship, suffering, and pain, and most importantly it examines how one should live in light of all those things.
One of my two favorite novels of all time and one of the best and most powerful books I have ever read.
I love this one! An absolutely beautiful story. I read it when I was much younger and it still had the same wonderful charm that I remembered when I had the chance to re-read it over a decade later. For some reason this one always stays with me. Love it, one of my all time favorites.
Oh, how I love this book. I first read it as a child, and even today the sheer beauty of the story and Kate Seredy's writing bring me to tears. My favorite book, ever.
So so good... tears flowing
A simple, lovely, moving tale about love and courage. This needs to be back in print so generations to come can learn from it!
This is a charming tale of a young Hungarian Prince and his father as they deal with the Nazis and their acquisition of the family castle as a headquarters.
It shows that although the noble Hungarian family may have appeared to be going along with their Nazi conquerors, but they are actually trying to maintain their integrity within an untenable situation.
The young prince ends up leaving his father and castle to stay with his governess and gets wounded in the process in a horseback riding accident.
This book is like a modern fairy tale, only believable.
A lost prince, a long kept secret, a wondrous black stallion...
It would have been great if it hadn't been for a very subtle pro-communist undertone.
Despite this, The Chesty Oak remains one of my favorites, and dignified and reserved young Michael, Prince of Chestry remains one of my favorite literary characters, along with his very special and temperamental stallion Midnight.Michael does any number of odd things which make this book special, including taking his nobleman's manners and dressage to a farm in the American Midwest.
I liked this book, and you probably will, too.
A young Hungarian nobleman’s son is forced to hide his true allegiances from Nazi occupiers and eventually flees to America where he plants an acorn from the mighty oak that symbolized his heritage and the reign of his forebears back in Hungary. Sometimes there are reasons why Books go out of print. I loved Seredy’s more famous books, The Good Master and The Singing Tree, but found this one slow going. Also I don’t have much patience for the Little Lord Fauntleroy type.
My husband gave me this book for Christmas. I started it right away, got through the first part, then just set it aside. Finally picked it up again to finish off the second part (in July). It was a decent book but I'm not eager for a re-read. Will hand it off to my kids to read to themselves rather than reading aloud.
A moving tale about a young boy, a stallion, and a “winged acorn” during World War II. Perfect for grades 5-8, and beyond.
This might feel slow to an adult reader who already has plenty of context for reading about World War II, but for children, particularly young ones, the time Seredy takes to unfold the circumstances of Michael's changing life is essential to helping them understand the historical events taking place and to feel the impact of those events on the young prince.Indeed, I would say that this book, and not Number the Stars as I have previously stated, is the book I would most want to use to introduce the topic of the Holocaust to my children.
The writing style is beautiful, fanciful even, at times, almost like an oral history or legend, but with such a strong dose of reality that the story feels lived (Seredy does a wonderful job of presenting war through the eyes of a child).
The characters engrave themselves on your heart, and make you want to live with loyalty, honor, courage, and strength.
It's worth the effort and expense!The main character in the book, Prince Michael, is six at the beginning of the book, and 10 at the end.
The Chestry Oak is, in my opinion, the best piece of children’s literature – ever.
Written and illustrated by Kate Seredy in 1948, this book has stood and will continue to stand the test of time.
This book uses words to create a masterpiece of ageless truths and ideals.
Very few books are either beautiful or powerful enough to leap off the page, grab a reader by the collar, and hold him spellbound to the last line.
The Chestry Oak is such a book.
At once soul-stirringly powerful and heart-wrenchingly beautiful, this is fiction at its finest.
I wanted to read this "childrens' book" because it was about Hungary and horses and was written in 1948 (when I was born) and because it was so influential to an author I just read. It was everything I hoped for and more - beautifully written, true storytelling in which passion and heart shine through. It made me realize how important it is to not confine ourselves to "adult" literature even though we may not have children to read to. Bringing back the classics is a new reading mission for me.
It was difficult for me to really get into the first several chapters of this book: it begins very deep and serious - and rather sad. I missed the peaceful simplicity that I have come to love in Seredy's books. If the early mood had persisted much longer, it would have made a very solemn book; but the story picked up and the second half is full of childish optimism and charm. I enjoyed it very much and feel that it was well worth the read.
Beautiful story. Fascinating look at the evils of WWII through the eyes of a young boy. The pacing was a little slow for my kids when we read aloud and some of the abstractions were confusing, but ultimately they were drawn in. The pace of the story picks up in the second half. Wonderful discussion of what it means to be uprooted and how to remain true to our identities even when everything around us is changing. Very satisfying ending, ultimate triumph of good over evil.
This is an incredibly evocative, magical book I've been wanting to read for a long time. Kate Seredy's charcoal illustrations are fantastic. One of the few books that has the power to make me cry at the end. There is little I can add to the other reviews; the 1948 edition is long out of print, and a good copy costs three figures on Amazon. Thanks to the power of inter-library loan, I have read the book as it was meant to be seen. Great experience.
Sad, sad story. A young boy, a prince, is forced in a time of war to flee his country and leave behind the horse he loves. Years later, in America, the boy and horse are brought together again by coincidence.It's a simple plot but so movingly told that I remember this as one of the teariest reads of my entire life.
I hardly remember this book because I was pretty young when I read it (or maybe my mom read it to me. hmmm.) I just remember loving it a lot!! I remember the beginning pretty clearly and the end. Sorry I can't give a better review. The best thing I can say is to definitely read it, or at least read it to your kid if/when you have one.
You know when I saw this on a list several people gave it 5 stars. I think I'm just a little to old now, or had to high expectations. However I thought it would be level with "Where the Red Fern Grows" or something like that, but it was just o.k. I think a child would really love it. It was just pretty good. I didn't enjoy it as much as some of the other classics.
I enjoyed this book and would recommend it. It did not draw me in quick but it did hold my attention and once it got going I had to keep reading, only wished the story had kept going.A young prince in Hungary, Nazi's using his father's castle as a secret stronghold, the boys majestic stallion and his journey to a new future.
