https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33732.Anyone_But_You
4.25/5It’s not every day you stumble upon a good older woman/younger man book with a wonderful animal character that you can’t help but fall in love with.
People who know me know that I’m a sucker for novels with animal characters.
So, I must admit that after catching a glimpse of the cover, I just couldn’t resist picking it up.
It was such a pleasant read, full of fun, love, joy, and laughter.
I enjoyed both main characters and supporting ones, especially Fred, a super cute dog who stole the show several times throughout the book.
This book will brighten up your day for certain!
Opening Line: “The last thing Nina Askew needed was Fred.”Newly divorced Nina Askew has just turned forty and found her freedom.
Rambling around her apartment, watching old movies and drinking Amaretto milkshakes with her BFF just aren’t cutting it anymore.
What Nina gets is Fred.
Those opening chapters where Nina adopts his depressed, smelly, vertically challenged, morose self from the pound while trying to get herself a cheerful puppy are just brilliant.
Yup, dejected, moaning, bra stealing, Oreo eating, smelly, overweight, great lump of a dog.
And how great is it to read about a 40 year old woman grabbing the younger hot guy.
5 stars – Contemporary Romance40-year-old divorcee Nina is feeling free at last, but a little bit lonely, so what does she do?
After all, without Fred, she wouldn’t have met her hottie ER doctor neighbor Alex, and that would have been a damn shame ‘cause the yumtastic hunk who’s 10 years her junior sparks her long dormant lust to vibrant life and restarts and repairs her broken heart.
I mean really gals, a sexy, single, funny, hot doc who loves to cuddle on the couch, eat Oreos, and watch old movies and tells you that age doesn’t matter and that he adores your body?
It’s a cute, light, funny, easy, heartwarming read with great characters and sweet romance!
⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ 5 STARS⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐Jennifer Crusie can still lit up a smile like no one else's! ❤ this book!
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ 5 STARS⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️Jennifer Crusie can still lit up a smile like no one else's! ❤️ this book!
He was patient, loving and listened when Nina needed a pair of ears.This contemporary romance was originally released in 1996 and, with the exception of videos and the mention of older actors, it never felt dated.
Told from two POVs, it was about a thirty-year old doctor and serial bachelor, Alex, and Nina.
Unaware of each other, they rented separate levels in an old Victorian home until Fred 'introduced' them.ANYONE BUT YOU is a Harlequin and all of the the characters could have used more development.
But with Nina's BFF and Alex's brother openly giving them advice, the couple find that unconditional love really does exist.
:-) This is the first book I've read by Jennifer Crusie and it will not be my last.
I read most of this book with a smile on my face.
This was a book I didn't tire of reading and remained engrossed in both the story and the characters.
There were actually three main characters: Nina, Alex and Fred (the dog).
Nina was 10 years older than Alex and for her it was a big deal.
Alex was a good looking ER doctor that came from a family of doctors.
There were secondary characters: Charity and Max (Alex's brother) that I hope have a story out there...somewhere.
Though a few of the pop references are dated, the humor and the romance were both a delight to read and it brought me back to those days when I looked forward to spending an afternoon reading to my hearts content.This book is about Nina, a newly divorced 40 year old woman, who is finally living her life on her terms but she's a little lonely and decides to adopt a friend.
I liked Bet Me a lot, though I never could put my finger on why, exactly.
They go together like Oreos and milk, only it takes Nina a while to get over the age difference and her fear of letting him see her naked and get on with her life.There was a dog in there, too, and some humor, and a plot about a novel and Nina's job and Alex's family, most of it very well done, all light-hearted and funny in that Crusie way, but honestly, I cared very little.
I love the story, but I couldn’t wait for it to be over because the audiobook narrator was awful.I read the paperback several years ago and laughed a lot.
I enjoyed other characters as well, especially the 75 year old physically fit neighbor Norma.AUDIOBOOK NARRATOR - Susan Ericksen:I don’t like this narrator.
It feels like a bossy person is yelling at me, lecturing me, nagging me.
I don’t like monotone readers, but Susan Ericksen is too far the other way.
Alex sounds like a bossy female instead of a guy desiring her and wanting sex.DATA:Narrative mode: 3rd person.
It was a light, fun read with the charm and wit I expect from Crusie.The rating is a bit on the generous side as the story was pretty predictable and there were few surprises along the way.
The characters were fun, though, and Crusie made a ten-year older woman feel like the perfect fit in a wonderful romantic couple.
I particularly liked the growth of both protagonists as they overcame their hang-ups to become more complete as people.A note about Steamy: Two and a half pretty steamy explicit sex scenes put this in the middle of my steam tolerance.
I'm a huge fan of pretty much anything Jennifer Crusie writes and this book was no exception.But...I'm not apparently a huge fan of the miscommunication plot device.
Believing this required an unusually painful suspension of disbelief for me and it wasn't Jennifer Crusie's fault - it's a fairly common plot device.Also, as much as I love Crusie (and I DO), I'm a little bit over the low-self-esteem protagonist.
I've been nursing and/or pregnant for the past five years and even *I* am not that self-conscious about my boobs.Overall, this book was well-written, well-executed and impossible to put down, just like everything else Jennifer Crusie's ever written.
A quick, cute read, though this is definitely an early Crusie: there isn't a plot so much as a series of convenient and rather repetitive excuses to draw the book out to its required length. I'm also beginning to wonder why it is that Crusie is so insistent that none of her heroines have or want children: trying to buck genre constraints, or something else? Still, this was very funny, Fred the depressive beagle was adorable, and it's got an older woman/younger man romance—definitely worth the couple of hours it takes to read.
A wonderful, funny, and heartwarming read!
Do NOT give your dog chocolate!
Chocolate is like poison to dogs, and these characters fed their dog Oreos, which sent me into screaming fits!Now, on to the rest of the story - I stand by my rating: It was OK.
The characters were likable and funny.
The reason for my stilted rating is that the romance felt a bit rushed and obvious to me.
Romances tend to be a bit predictable, but this one was especially so.
But, hey, it was a lighthearted, happy romp with an older woman falling in love with a younger man - well, and with her dog too (read the book)!
I've heard of Jennifer Crusie but have never read any of her books, so this will be first.From the first disc, I though the reader's voice sounded familiar.
There are certain readers that can read me a shopping list, and I will enjoy it...LOL)It turned out to be a light-hearted story of a 40-year old woman (darn, I had to pick this just when I'm about to turn the same big 4-0) and a young (in her opinion) ER doctor.
So will be picking another book of this author, when I need an Oreo fix.
I found this book hilarious. Nina, Fred, and Alex were cute together. Even though this story was a bit predictable it was just too cute not to finish. Fred was definitely too funny and cute especially when he Nina told him to "Go Free" lol
1. Alex was a 30 year old kid.
I like to watch cartoons, kid shows and even read Young Adults books.
Yet, in his immaturity, he thought that he needed more money to make Nina happy, because she was married to a rich man before.I just didn't like how Alex's character was made up.
No, Nina didn't get any plastic surgery, but she didn't like how body looked, because she was 40 years old and everything wasn't perky anymore.
Just because a woman is 40 years old, it doesn't mean that her body can't be perky.
Rich is sixty-two years old.Alex always thought that nothing was wrong with Nina's body, even before they hooked up.
He's just a nice, easy going guy...who also happens to be a sexy ER doctor.To Nina, Alex is just the young, hot neighbor that is fun to hang out with and secretly lust after.
The thought that they might have a relationship never enters her mind, because Nina is forty and Alex is thirty.
She's beautiful and comfortable, has no expectations of him like the other women he's dated, and Nina is just so easy to be with.
She's a go-to for an easy contemporary romance...nothing phenomenal...no high angst, no earth shattering revelations...just a simple love story that makes your heart sigh!
A lite fun book about a May/December romance.
Loved Alex, he was witty charming, and and old soul in a young man's body.
I think that's why he connected with Nina.
Fred the dog was a nice addition, and made for some humorous and sweet moments in the book.
He was the one who brought them together.
At one point the book almost seemed to stall and I felt as if I was rereading the same chapter over.
Then it picked up again and wrapped up nicely.
Moral of the story "I love you just the way you are." Thank you Billy Joel.
This book is hysterical. I listened to the audiobook while driving to work and laughed myself silly. I absolutely loved Nina and Alex and of course, Fred. I'm not usually a chick-lit kind of girl but I absolutely loved this one.
4.5 stars - great! I really love this book. Nina and Alex are pretty great, and Fred (the dog) is just fabulous. :-) But for me, this book is not as wonderful as Getting Rid of Bradley or Manhunting (both also by Jennifer Crusie), so it *only* gets 4.5 "great!" stars. ;-)This story sees Nina, 40 years old, rescue Fred ("part basset, part beagle, part manic-depressive," page 33) from certain death at her local shelter (it was his last day; I cried, it was so touching). She meets Alex, 30 years o
:-) But for me, this book is not as wonderful as Getting Rid of Bradley or Manhunting (both also by Jennifer Crusie), so it *only* gets 4.5 "great!" stars.
:-)Then we have this scene on page 38: After Charity has been introduced to Fred, he decides to show off his learning skills and jumps out the window to the fire escape, as Nina showed him how to do.
And this is indeed "Fred's book." :-) Nina and Alex were pretty great, too, once they got out of their own way and just accepted each other for who they each were.
The interwebs seem to agree that Jennifer Crusie writes above-average romance novels, so after reading several books that were very srs bsns, I decided to finally give one a try.
As someone currently trying to write one herself, I kept wanting to scream, “It’s not that EASY, yo!” Crusie, I’m sure in your heart of hearts, you will back me up on this.This book was problematic, but it was still fun, and I’ll definitely be adding Crusie’s name to my list of potential comfort reads.
Nina's character was just so real, with her insecurities about being 40 in a world that idolizes the looks of a 20-year-old.
And Alex's ignorance of the realness of her insecurities was also very true-to-life.
Alex, however, takes one look at Nina and definitely wants more, and the fact that he's ten years younger doesn't bother him a bit.
Being a smart guy, he eventually discovers how to build that friendship into more - once he gets past his own insecurities about not being rich.So I guess I'm a convert to Jennifer Crusie, and will definitely try another of her books.
It is easy to get into and Nina is a character who is easy to love.
I think the thing I liked most about this novel was the realness of Nina, she is like your average woman with all the same insecurities about herself and her body.Alex is an interesting character and doesn't seem to be your typical 30 year old hero.
There are a couple of fun secondary characters who just add to the fun.If you are looking for a fun quick read with a great happy ending then this is a book for you.
Fred made this book for me.
I generally don't like Crusie's writing.
It doesn't really feel any spot with me, but I loved Fred.
Fred is a big ol' dog that everyone pet lover would want.
And saved from euthanasia at the animal shelter, he just doesn't care that much.
He's still the same Fred, causing trouble when he feels up to it.Another added bonus that for once it's not an older man chasing a younger woman's skirt.
It's a decade older woman chasing a man's scrubs.
Not like a prodigies at 27.
It's one of the few I love rereading.
This one had tons of telling, over-obvious symbolism and a plot that led me around by the nose, but the characters and dialog were so damn cute that I just couldn't hold it against the book. Just charmed the pants off me, it did.
This is one of my favorite Crusie books. The characters are well-rounded and likable, the dialog is snappy, and Fred the dog deserves his own sequel. I re-read it whenever I need something that makes me happy.
Light, fun read. Alex was adorable. Nina had some oh-no-I'm-40 angst, but it only came out sometimes--she didn't obsess over it obnoxiously. Their friends were also quite likable, and I wish Max and Charity would get a book written just for them.
I'm currently listening to this audiobook...I'm giving Jennifer Crusie another chance though I swore I wouldn't after Charlie All Night! She is definitely one of the authors that is a hit and miss!
Read during a breather in the Duran binge. It was cute, and I didn't want cute. Mostly I wanted Duran. But it's hard to read one incredible emotional book after another without one of them suffering because of my overload. It only took a few hours to read this, and it was fun. Easy. But nothing was engaged. And at times I was frustrated and impatient with the characters and their hang-ups. Still, so-so Crusie isn't bad stuff. Now back to the Duran...
