https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29638166-from-sand-and-ash
5+ stars!!! Amy Harmon is one of those authors that can’t write a bad book. She always blows me away with the uniqueness of her stories and the beautiful way they’re written. All of them have a special place in my heart in a different way, yet none of them have touched me quite like From Sand and Ash did. This is by far her best work yet. This book is unforgettable. Truly one of the most stunning, beautiful, powerful and heart wrenching books I have ever read. I don’t normally read historical bo
Truly one of the most stunning, beautiful, powerful and heart wrenching books I have ever read.
I don’t normally read historical books.
They don’t always hold my interest, but I’m going to tell you right now- I don’t care if you read historical, romance, fiction, non-fiction, whatever- this is a book that needs to be read by everyone.
It’s hard to imagine things like this really happened.
Your life will be changed by reading this book.
I can’t imagine one person reading this book and not being changed for the better once they’re done.
It’s also a beautiful story full of love, faith and devotion.
Each of her books that I've read has been incredibly emotional and touching.'From Sand and Ash' is a gripping account of true love in WWII-era Italy.
They had the type of love that is incredibly intimate and real.
If you love a forbidden love story, this is your book.
They fought for each other and their love, refusing to give up no matter how hopeless their situation might have seemed.This story was inspirational and heartfelt.
This is a new favorite of mine and one of my top reads for the year.
AVAILABLE ON AMAZON: E-BOOK | PAPERBACK | AUDIO "Fear is strange.It settles on chests and seeps through skin, through layers of tissue, muscle, and bone and collects in a soul-sized black hole, sucking the joy out of life, the pleasure, the beauty.But not the hope.Somehow, the hope is the only thing resistant to the fear, and it is that hope that makes the next breath possible, the next step, the next tiny act of rebellion, even if that rebellion is simply staying alive."  "There was no one left
"Fear is strange.It settles on chests and seeps through skin, through layers of tissue, muscle, and bone and collects in a soul-sized black hole, sucking the joy out of life, the pleasure, the beauty.But not the hope.Somehow, the hope is the only thing resistant to the fear, and it is that hope that makes the next breath possible, the next step, the next tiny act of rebellion, even if that rebellion is simply staying alive."
But in an occupied city, with nothing left but love itself, Angelo and Eva held on to each other, if only for a while."
He didn't know how to heal her, or hold her or save her.
5 STARS  ”From sand and ash, new life. With every song and with every prayer, with every small rebellion…” Before I begin gushing over this story I must start with a line from the author’s note… ”I did my best to represent the Jewish and Catholic religions and people with love and respect.” Amy Harmon beautifully represented these two faiths during this World War II based romance. The extent of her research, and the unique way she incorporated real people and events into this fictional love stor
”I did my best to represent the Jewish and Catholic religions and people with love and respect.”
The extent of her research, and the unique way she incorporated real people and events into this fictional love story was spectacular.
The story spans the life of Batsheva “Eva” Rosselli a Jewish violinist and Angelo Bianco a catholic priest.
The story spans years as the Germans take over Italy and the Jewish families struggle to survive the horror and indignities.
Angelo's love for Eva and need to protect her far surpassed this war, the multitude of losses, and yes even their faiths.
And sometimes we have to fight in order to live."Angelo is sent from the United States to Italy, where he is taken in by the Rosselli family.
This story was painful to read in many ways, very intense and at times emotionally draining.
Never underestimate the power of love, faith, hope, forgiveness and redemption!!)This author did an incredible amount of research, from the dialogue, the historical details, all while creating a taut atmosphere, right along with all the gut punching emotions, making the reader feel as though they are living events right along side Eva and Angelo.
I felt their connection but as the years pass another path naturally calls to Angelo which provides the most deeply emotive and beautiful aspect to the plot, it left me yearning and wondering how their lives would play out.
The genre is historical romance and I highly recommend to all those who seek beautifully crafted stories that accurately transport the reader to another place in time with characters who inspire and a love that takes one’s breath away.
This is my first Amy Harmon book - I have found a new favourite author - I feel I'm "in awe" of Harmon - I will read anything she writes!I'm spent - emotionally exhausted after experiencing the love, war, hope and pain throughout this novel.
As hard as it was to read at times, Harmon explains in her Author's Note "My prayer is that people of today will know the past so they won't repeat it." Very well said!A few quotes that deeply affected me were: "When children suffer, the ones who love them suffer even more, helpless to alleviate their agony."When Angelo was explaining to Eva the beauty he remembers in his deceased mother.
a story about two childhood friends trying to survive and save so many others...
a story about a Catholic priest loving a Jewish woman and risking it all to keep her safe.
➦Every time I read about the Holocaust I get angry and depressed.
But this book was able to show that among that ugliness there were people who had HOPE and love for other people -people who they didn't know yet risked their own lives to save.
I wouldn't probably hear an accent in my head while reading the book so I don't think it was necessary.
Maravilloso! Sin palabras. Una historia que te llega al alma y te recuerda las consecuencias de creerse superior a los otros; de olvidar que todos somos personas, hermanos. Sencillamente magnífica!
I don’t know how to review this book. I’m just sitting here staring at my screen with a REALLY large glass of wine and about 15 crumpled up tissues. I’ll be back later.***I'm back. And I'm not writing a review. I wrote the author a sobbing, sloppy letter instead. If you're reading this trying to decide if you should 1 click, just do it. Nothing I could say would do it justice anyway.
Amy Harmon at her very best! Her writing and stories are always excellent, but this one is just wise and deviously SUBLIME!!!"I love you. I have always loved you, and I will always love you."
❝ How can you compromise with people who don't want you to exist? They want us to disappear. I can't adapt to death.❞  FAVORITE BOOK OF THE YEAR! BY FAR, WITHOUT DOUBT!Beautiful, heart-wrenching, exquisite and incredibly powerful, From Sand and Ash is the best work this author has created.Amy Harmon is unforgiving as she retells history. She doesn't sugar coat it for her readers, she doesn't hide the pain, tragedy, and atrocities. She immerses the reader in the pain and horror and the despair
BY FAR, WITHOUT DOUBT!Beautiful, heart-wrenching, exquisite and incredibly powerful, From Sand and Ash is the best work this author has created.Amy Harmon is unforgiving as she retells history.
The prologue set the book up exquisitely and perfectly letting us know this was not going to be an easy read.Angelo has been sent to live with his grandparents in Italy after his mother died.
What started as a friendship quickly turns to love, but Angelo is destined to be a priest, and Eva is a jew.
The significance of this book in our world, in our time, is not only powerful but important.
Must read! This is one of the best books I’ve had the pleasure of reading this year. Wonderful storytelling and characters that I will never forget... this is a true gem. ‘From sand and ash, rebirth. From sand and ash, new life’. Reminiscent of The Nightingale. 5+ stars.
Title: From Sand and AshSeries: StandaloneAuthor: Amy HarmonRelease date:  December 1, 2016Cliffhanger: NoYet again, Amy Harmon has written something so substantial, so moving, that I can't collect the proper thoughts to express my feelings for this amazing expression of love.
All he knew was that he loved her desperately.
This is one of those books that is so insightful and exquisite, I feel like I'm better for having read it.
I read this in one day, cover to cover, feeling desperate for the world to right itself again.
But as the war bled closer, things started to change when her Jewish family became the target of hate.Angelo Bianco grew up with the Rosselli family and considered one of their own.
Surrounded by war, he knew he could do more with his position, but his love for Eva could be the highest risk of all.I would read anything written by Amy Harmon because her stories always managed to capture a special corner in readers' heart.
What I love the most about war stories be it fact or fiction is the human factor.
I must admit I knew nothing about the Jewish experience in Italy during World War 2 and this book certainly opened my eyes.
The author wrote about the many atrocities in a very appropriate manner which made me want to know more.The love story between the two main characters was well done and I was not sure how the author was going to end it.
Several times I really feared the worst!
Well the worst maybe did not happen but I was disappointed with what she did do.
One house in one town in the middle of war torn Europe and (view spoiler)[ they walked in on each other (hide spoiler)].
Just no!Still four stars for a nicely written, interesting story.
I put Allende on hold to download and read Amy Harmon's latest.
I read it like a Blitzkrieg.
As a friend of mine recently said after a one-sitting, intense read: I feel like I ate an entire cake.
I ate it.
Beautiful and luscious.
Tragic and harrowing.
War. Love.
Faith.
Gorgeous prose around historical details.
A Panzer tank through your heart, leaving dirt and rubble through which poppies bloom.
Sorry, I'm mixing my war metaphors.
I wish I could articulate more but I kind of have a thousand-yard stare going on right now...
In fact I think I need to make a new shelf called "Thousand-Yard Stare."
❝"I have always been yours, Angelo," she said, echoing the very words he'd thought while he prayed. She was his. "But you have never been mine."❞  4.5 STARSWow. I am SPEECHLESS. This book was just so painfully beautiful. I am literally at a loss for words on how to translate my feelings for this book. I'm a huge sucker for historical romances and rarely do I find one that actually hits me right in feels and has me swooning all at the same time. Amy Harmon has such a talent for ripping your hea
She did it in The Bird and the Sword, the first Amy Harmon book I've ever read, and she did it again and more in From Sand and Ash.From Sand and Ash was like a combination of The Nightingale by Kristin Hannah and The Bronze Horseman by Paullina Simons.
I was at the edge of my seat the whole time while reading and I just didn't know which route Amy Harmon was going to take by the end of the book.
AMAZING From Sand and Ash  blew me away.
You know when you pick up a book and after you read a few pages you can tell that it's going to be an epic read?!
That was this book for me.
When asked by friends and family what this book is about I tell them it's a mix of Anne Frank: The Diary of a Young Girl and The Bronze Horseman.
From Sand and Ash encompasses the struggle of the Jewish people and the Catholic church during WWII in Europe.
“How can you compromise with people who don't want you to ex
You know when you pick up a book and after you read a few pages you can tell that it's going to be an epic read?!
From Sand and Ash encompasses the struggle of the Jewish people and the Catholic church during WWII in Europe.
The struggle between survival and love was something I felt deeply while reading this book.
I read 3/4 in paperback format and listened to the last forth via audio.
Once the audio was released I bought it because I want my husband to "read" this book too.
I loved both reading it and listening to it.
5+++ beautifully emotional stars!!!Phenomenal.Outstanding. Gut wrenching.Brutally beautiful. Breathtaking.Heartbreaking.Soul-absorbing.Unforgettable. “In him I have found a slice of the divine, a morsel of peace, and when his lips are on mine, his hands on my skin, there is reason to believe that life is more than pain, more than fear, more than sorrow. I am hopeful for the first time in years. And strangely enough, I find myself convinced that God loves his children – all his children – that he
From Sand and Ash is a stunning masterpiece that left me breathless with its exquisite prose, the phenomenally framed characters, vulnerable and strong at the same time, and the richness of a storyline perfectly crafted.
I feel no amount of praise will ever do a book of this caliber justice and there really is no way to properly express how incredible Eva and Angelo's story is.
For me, this is hands down, one of the best books I ever read.
Then we take what we've learned, and it becomes our offering to God and to mankind.
But we have to live in order to learn.
there were so many dark parts of this book, that left me feeling so ashamed that humans could act this way or do these things and then I would get a little taste of hope, I guess that's what keeps you going when you are in such a horrible situation...
I also need to recognize the narrator of the audiobook, she did such an amazing job with all the accents at times I felt as though I was talking to Ava or Angelo themselves, so extremely well done....
I did not do much research, before buying "From Sand and Ash." It was the cover that caught my eye online.
The short description told of a young Jewish woman and a Catholic priest who grew up together and gradually, silently fell in love through the years but were separated by their different religious beliefs and the atrocities of the Nazis during WWII in Italy.
Thank you Ms. Harmon for bringing Eva and Angelo and their journey throughout the years into my life.
This book has become one of my all-time favorites.
I was disappointed I couldn't buy a hardcover copy.
This is a book to treasure, and I'll be surprised if it doesn't become a best seller.
Of course I know things that have happened, but I don't read about it nor watch many older shows about it.
Maybe I'm older now, maybe it's because I have kids now, maybe it's simply because sadly I see and hear so much of the hate that goes on in this world and it saddens my heart.
I got to meet Angelo Bianco and I instantly loved him.
She would do just about anything to love him, it just wasn't enough.
The ugliness of war is horrid to live, to see, to read, to hear.
“Our immortality comes through our children and their children. Through our roots and branches. The family is immortality. And Hitler has destroyed not just branches and roots, but entire family trees, forests. All of them, gone.”   The year is 1943 and World War II Nazi-occupied Italy played its part in the persecution, deportation, and ultimate murder of the Jewish people. However, Amy Harmon manages to incorporate so much beauty in this very dark time. From Sand and Ash is full of contrasts
And Hitler has destroyed not just branches and roots, but entire family trees, forests.
From Sand and Ash is full of contrasts: life/death, hope/defeat, courage/fear, compliance/rebellion, faith/doubt, love/rejection, desire/restraint...
But such is this magical life – we cannot survive the depths without having at least a flicker of light, and even more so when the world is at war and a beautiful people are being destroyed simply because they exist.Amy Harmon has created incredibly human characters full of complexities.
She has also replicated the palpable emotions that coincide with tragic times, but the themes of family, love, and resiliency shine through.
I will post my full review soon. But OMG, this was beautiful and heartbreaking and amazing. Pick this book up, please, please. This is an epic love story, amid true events, you won't want to miss. I wish I could give this one 10 stars!
A heartfelt story where love and faith triumph during World War II in Fascist Italy.
Amy Harmon's well written fictional story, that incorporates historical truth, shows how people of all religions can come together with compassion for each other no matter what their beliefs are.
Reading stories such as this helps me to restore my belief in humanity, especially now when at times the respect and love that we should be showing each other seems to be lacking.
I have not read a lot of historical romance novels before, but Harmon did a wonderful job interweaving both the historical and romance aspects of this story.
A friends-to-lovers, forbidden affair, that takes place during the second world war, a time when there was little hope, but a huge amount of love and togetherness that is portrayed wonderfully in this book.Childhood friends, Eva and Angelo face many adversities, but their friendship is never wavering.
Angelo uses his career as a Priest to help the Jewish refugees, and Eva is determined to do her bit to assist in her war-torn country.Not only are they battling to survive in a world that is falling apart, but Angelo is battling his feelings for the woman he has always loved.
But whenever I read about the atrocities committed during WWII, I feel, in some measure, as Angelo did.
Yes, this story is fiction but not all of it.
The worst (and best) parts were real: the horrors and the hope.
Woven in between is this story of love and the inherent goodness of people, that is the light in every darkness.
This review isn't going to do it justice by any stretch, but I hope anyone on the fence about reading it takes a chance.
You will feel enriched for having done so.
"It was love that made each touch feel like redemption and each kiss like rebirth. Not just lust. Not just pleasure. It was love that created joy." Ahhhh this book!!! I LOVED it so much. ❤❤❤
It was such a dark and depressing historical period, but the author managed weave a tale of love, hope, faith and loyalty.
While Eva struggles to survive, she was also forced to deal with the fact that the man she loved chose to be a priest over a life with her.This story was both inspiring, enlightening and emotionally POWERFUL.
She was a great choice for this book.I loved both Eva and Angelo for different reasons.
I never felt that the author sacrificed the historical plight of the people in favor of a love story.
