https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/771332.With_the_Old_Breed
There is no glory in war, in the shedding of another man's blood; in digging a foxhole in a torrential downpour only to uncover the badly decomposing body of a Japanese soldier crawling with maggots; in watching helplessly as four of your comrades retrieve, on a stretcher, a wounded Marine amid machinegun fire ("If it were me out there," Sledge recounts, "I would want to know I wouldn't be left behind."); in enduring a night while being shelled by enemy artillery; in stumbling upon fellow Marines that have been tortured, decapitated and butchered in the worst way imaginable; in suffering sleep deprivation, from malaria and jungle rot, and from hunger, thirst, and, alternately, heat and cold.
if you read it, you'll never again take for granted things like: eating out of the rain, regular-sized house flies, running water, a bed, a change of clothes, dry socks and shoes, warm food, letters from loved ones, clean water, fresh air).Eugene Sledge takes you with him every step of the way.
As the troops used to say, "If the country is good enough to live in, it's good enough to fight for." With privilege goes responsibility.To Eugene Sledge, and to the many others who have fought (and many who have died) to preserve for us so many things we take for granted ...thank you seems so not enough.
I couldn’t believe what I was listening to (It was an audio book.) This book is considered by many as the best first-hand account, battlefield memoir ever written and I cannot disagree.If you have ever wondered what it was like to be a member of a rifle platoon in the Marines or Army, fighting the Japanese in the Pacific theatre, you need to read this book.
If you ever wondered why the men of the greatest generation – the survivors of the Pacific theater – are going to their graves with a deep-seated hatred in their hearts for all things that are Japanese, you need to read this book.
I have read many fine books covering the Pacific campaign during WW2 and so many referred to this book that I had to find a copy for myself.
I have since bought a copy for a friend here in Australia and he also ranks it in his top 10 military history books.
The author offers an insight into what its like to be in combat rarely found in most books nowadays.
This is an honest, at times sad and occassionaly funny, look at the life of a combat Marine during the final battles in the Pacific.
Anyone serious about military history should have a copy in their library.
Eugene Sledge would seem an unlikely author of what I consider the most powerful memoir of war in the Pacific theater.
His story was later central to Ken Burns' series, "The War." His memoir later served as one of the key sources for Spielberg and Hanks HBO series, "The Pacific." Eugene Sledge died in 2001 after a lengthy battle with cancer.
His memoir of men at war should be read throughout the coming generations by anyone ever inclined to take the matter of war with an attitude of indifference.Do not think that Sledge should ever be considered a pacifist.
This book should be on everybody's list.Instead, I want to highlight a few sentences from the book that in my mind capture the book as a whole:On the chances of survival and knowing that you would probably not survice the war:Soldiers like me, who never got hit, can claim with justification, that we survived the abyss of war as fugitives of the law of averages.And on hearing of the surrender of Japan and the ending of the war:Sitting in stunned silence, we remembered our death.
Trying to comprehend a world without war.And on war as a whole:War is brutish, inglorious and a terrible waste
But it’s a first-hand account, so obviously Sledge survived, or he wouldn’t have written the book.
He admits he was scared, he doesn’t hide that fact that Marines often “field-stripped” the enemy dead and the enemy almost-dead (trust me—Marines ripping out gold teeth is mild compared to what the Japanese did to Marine dead), and shows both hatred for the enemy and love for his fellow Marines and their navy corpsmen (with one exception).But With the Old Breed is more than a brutally honest account of Pacific warfare.
(I totally saw that coming, but I’ve been sleeping in a dry, warm bed instead of a wet foxhole, and my sleep isn’t interrupted by shells and threats of Japanese paratroopers.)Sledge sums up the book best in his own words: War is brutish, inglorious, and a terrible waste.
You've read the other reviews, so you already know how good this is. Written by a young Marine, this is a straight forward, no-nonsense, gritty account of life (and frequently death) on the front line in the Pacific in WW2. It's well written, with plenty of insights into military life - the friendships, the stink & grime, the horror & occasional humour. But what really sets this apart are the author's honest descriptions of how he felt and his motivations in combat - comradeship, bravery, anger, fear.
Among other things, what's so remarkable is how different Leckie and Sledge were (as individuals, as observers, as survivors, as reporters) and how successful - in incredibly different ways - they both became after the war.
Ultimately, I liked (or, I dunno, related to or sympathized with) Sledge more than Leckie, but that's neither here nor there.
Both books are well worth reading (even if I probably enjoyed, and would recommend, this one more).For better or worse, this is a micro, not a macro, view of one Marine's combat experience on the Pacific islands during WWII.
If you only read 1 book on fighting in the Pacific Theatre in WWII, this should be the one.
With the Old Breed: At Peleliu and Okinawa is the classic story of modern ground combat and amphibious warfare.
It is so good because E.B. Sledge does not go in for drama, he tells a straightforward story of tragedy and bravery.
He explains clearly where he knows what is going on and also explains what he was thinking when it was SNAFU.
He covers his first campaign at Peleliu and then his second campaign in Okinawa.
If you saw the mini-series "The Pacific" you will recognize some scenes.
Sledge tells a flowing tale from an enlisted Infantryman’s perspective, a modest, down to earth, or perhaps I should say corral reef, view of the war.
I almost immediately took the return flight so I could finish the book, but since my sister was waiting for me I paused reading the tale, but got back to it as soon as I could.
On another note - the good folks in the Goodreads WW2 group recommended the book so I first gave it to my Dad to read and he loved it.
A wonderful read. I had trouble putting this brutal but heartfelt book down. It hides nothing about the inhumanity of the Pacific conflict that Sledge was part of but in the end his prose shows a retention of his own humanity.
Another loss for my reading enjoyment is they also have such a close order view of what is going on, that you loose any big picture overview.
On the other hand, he provides an overview after each of his memory revelations that help keep things in context with what is going on around.
All in all, I would consider this a must read for anyone that is into the first person revelation of the war and for those how are interested in combat in the Pacific.
For anyone else, it is still a very good, very enjoyable read.
It’s painful to read though and if you won’t want to know the gory details faced by young men barely out of school and inexperienced with the world, then you don’t want to read this book.
I hate war, but I feel compelled to know what it’s like so I don’t take for granted what we ask young people to experience in war.
He explains how Japanese soldiers who spoke English tried to move in on their foxholes at night and how occasionally a buddy was mistakenly shot for an enemy.
This is without doubt one of the best first-hand-accounts i've ever read about the war in the pacific during world war two.A book that you just can't put down. It will stop in your memory long after you have read it. If you want to read about the true horror's of war then this book is a must read.A truly epic read.P.s I don't go into much details about what is contained under it's covers(so-to-speak) as I don't want to give anything away.
It is a humble story of a Marine and his battle experiences, told without self censure and speaking to the awesome horror that is war.I always look with wonder at the young faces, these virtual boys who struggled in horrid conditions and sacrificed so much.
I am always stunned that these young men fought so hard for us, and most stayed so silent, barely sharing what they had seen with anyone.So it is with a sense of indebtedness to Eugene B.
And as a Christian I am adamantly opposed to civilian deaths.
But reading this book one begins to realize that the Japanese had no intention of surrending.
So all the armchair generals who think we messed up by dropping the A-Bomb need to read this book and remember that it took more than 80 days and over 110,000 dead Japanese to get a six mile island named Okinawa.
Second, I realized that if our generation (I am thirty-three)was called upon to do what these men had to do there is little doubt we would fail.
Fortunately for us, this memoir was made public and I found it to be an moving account of one mans journey through his time as a Marine and his experiences of two brutal battles, Peleliu and Okinawa.Just a bit of background, I have read quite a few books on WWII but they have been mostly historical, political or strategic in nature not memoirs.
We follow his path through Bloody Nose Ridge in Peleliu to the Shuri Line in Okinawa; from the oppressive 110 degree heat and coral rock on Peleliu to the almost constant rain and mud of Okinawa.The heart of this book is the honesty of Sledge concening himself, his fellow Marines, the enemy and his God.It was hard to sleep that night.
Firsthand account of a Marine in the Pacific during World War II, Sledge's book is devastatingly unflinching in its examination of close quarters combat against a fearless and dedicated enemy. What did I learn from this book? Using nuclear weapons on Japan was not wrong but overdue.
Prompted to read With the Old Breed by watching HBO's The Pacific, I was unprepared for Sledge's unflinching, simple honesty in reporting and processing his WWII experiences as a Marine infantryman.
Consequently, I'm glad that I watched The Pacific before reading With the Old Breed, because the images I retained from the miniseries helped me to visualize the technical details and battle scenes that Sledge describes in his memoirs.
So while he is able to note the strategic significance of the battles he was in with historical hindsight, mostly what he is describing is what he perceived at the time (produced from notes he took as he was there), the view of an enlisted man who often had no idea why they were being told to go to this particular island or take that particular hill.EB Sledge (called "Sledgehammer" by his comrades) was with the 1st Marines, "the Old Breed," through the campaigns of Peleliu and Okinawa.Physical DiscomfortThink about the worst discomfort you've ever felt.
I am always drawn to historical accounts of the Marine Corps 5th Regiment from WWI to present.
The best writings are usually through first hand accounts.
Sledge served in 3/5 during WWII and managed to survive his entire tour without injury.
Like a true Marine, Sledge possessed gifts and talents beyond fighting.
The book transcends WWII as it is an overall testament of the basic Marine Corps values of Semper Fidelis and camaraderie along with tradition, which makes the title “With the Old Breed” so appropriate.
One of the all time best war memoirs ever written. I have read this book twice, it is a classic account of one Marines experiences in the Pacific during World War 2. Very personal and moving memoir of the horrors and fighting experienced during the Peleliu and Okinawa campaigns. The narrative presents a very detailed and gripping account. The bitter fighting and suicidal Japenese resistance make these campaigns a couple of the worst during the Pacific campaign. Anyone seeking to learn of the experiances of a frontline Marine in World War 2, there is no better account.
My favorite parts were Eugene Sledge's stories (I somehow dislike Leckie, but probably because of the actor hehe).This book is his memoir and I loved every single part of it.
I chuckled reading Sledge's frustration when doing this chore - pretty sure that he and his buddies had not imagined they would be doing that glamorous task during the war.
Easy to read, very detailed (but not boring) about the daily life of a marine in the Pacific.
I like that he told stories about the land crabs and the (now) silliness of the war.
But then a funny thing happens: you realize that there is so much respect and honesty in his memories, that hyperbolic though it may be, it all probably happened and felt exactly the way he records it.Each time he describes a war-blasted landscape and claims its the more destruction he's ever seen in his life, you can't help but believe him.
I don't know if these various men were in the military or if they ever fought in WWII (or any war for that matter), but a few times I've almost been overwhelmed with an urge to confront this old gentleman or that, and to shake their hand and vigorously thank them for the sacrifices they gave.
From the introduction by Paul Fussell  One cause of this book's distinction is that its author is not an author. Sledge wrote this memoir less for strangers than to tell his own family what his war had been like. It was his wife who persuaded him to submit it to a publisher. The book is devoid of the literary expediencies and suavity's that may occasion skepticism or disgust in more artistically self-conscious war memoirs. Sledge is so little an author in the pejorative sense that his eye seems
Sledge wrote this memoir less for strangers than to tell his own family what his war had been like.
The book is devoid of the literary expediencies and suavity's that may occasion skepticism or disgust in more artistically self-conscious war memoirs.
Sledge is so little an author in the pejorative sense that his eye seems never to wander from his subject to contemplate the literary effect he's creating.
It is this honesty, simplicity, and modesty that gives Sledge's book its extraordinary power.
”The actuality” that Sledge’s book shows is horrifying, to the point that I considered including quotes regarding the most gruesome parts of his story and decided not to.
I like to understand people and this left the door wide open for me to walk through and observe a WW2 Pacific grunt's experience and feelings.
Average American citizens left veterens feeling quite at a loss upon their return home...he writes; "It was hard to believe some of our old friends who had wanted so much to return home actually were writing us that they thought of volunteering again for overseas duty...They had had enough of war, but they had greater difficulty adjusting to civilians or to comfortable Stateside posts.
E.B. Sledge's account of his tour of duty with the 5th Marines in WWII, With The Old Breed is the second account of the Pacific theater that I have read.
It is also one of the primary source materials for HBO's compelling miniseries The Pacific.
Sledge's account is full of colorful accounts of his experience of WWII, much like John Leckie's book (another primary source for The Pacific) Helmet For My Pillow.
Overall, it was a compelling and informative account of life as soldier in some of the most brutal battles in WWII.
I recalled some of the eloquent phrases of politicians and newsmen about how "gallant" it is for a man to "shed his blood for his country" and "to give his life's blood as a sacrifice," and so on.
His description of the life of a marine in wartime is direct, brutal, and honest.
Through all of this, Sledge doesn't lose his compassion or his humanity.The most poignant moment in the book is when Sledge is saying goodbye to a man who who has just been fatally wounded.
He knows he is dying, but talks about the good times the man will have in the hospital and back home in America.
One of those books that everyone needs to read - not pleasant reading and full of horrific descriptions but we owe it to what these men went through to read their story.
Putting their lives at risk at a time when in Europe the war was over (at least for the second half of the book in Okinawa).
It is all told in such an open and personal way which makes it something different from other war memoirs and a compelling read.
Also shows the fanaticism of the Japanese troops and provides essential background to what happened at Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
