https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32951.Sister_Outsider
If you care about feminism, social justice, or making the world a better place in any way at all, you must read this book.
I marked several passages from each essay, so I wish I could share so many of them in this review, but for the sake of brevity, first, an iconic passage about how we must stand in solidarity with everyone who faces oppression, not just those who look like us:"I am a lesbian woman of Color whose children eat regularly because I work in a university.
It must be because she is a poet and creates with words that space within us, that bridge where separate senses of being can cross and touch.Perhaps the spell of a poet speaking about feminist praxis is in healing a breech, in reorienting us away from the false and foolish dichotomy between emotion and thought, which in her essays Poetry is not a Luxury and Uses of the Erotic Lorde shows us how to unlearn.
Her passing created a hollow space in my soul that is now filled again each time I read her prose & poetry.
Audre Lorde lived for a radical pedagogy and the transformation of life under the weight of white supremacy, patriarchy, homophobia, and classism and could she write?
It might save your life the way it saved mine, and I am white, male and straight.This book did not influence me, it made mep.s-Folks, the new edition has a foreword by the indefatigable Cheryl Clarke.
Clarke has been in the life for the longest, paying her dues, working at Rutgers forever.
Anger is an appropriate reaction to racist attitudes, as is fury when the actions arising from those attitudes do not change. To those women here who fear the anger of women of Color more than their own unscrutinized racist attitudes, I ask: Is the anger of women of Color more threatening than the woman-hatred that tinges all aspects of our lives? My latest favorite type of Tumblr blog is a variation on the theme of 'thisisnot_____', wherein a slew of responses to angry white tears let me know
Compared to the fury I've read in Tumblr posts, this work barely scrapes the surface of a twinge with its love, its eloquence, its call for community and lack of implication that all white people in the US should go back to Europe.
As a white woman, social justice is the art of inherent power as propagated towards the self and pressed upon the other, an art that will ask 'who' and 'how' and 'why' and say, above all else, 'no'.
Read it and weep.Read it and be moved to action.Read it. Just because. Audre Lorde will change your life.
the bible just not doing it for ya?
feel disappointed by the christian science monitor?
maybe not getting the guidance you need from the koran or buddha...
this shit is a new religion- all the spiritual guidance you'll ever need.
it's fucking good and smart and amazing and no good feminist worth their (gender unspecific) salt would go without referencing lorde.
like hooks she's really easy to read, but unlike hooks she's got way more fucking soul.
this reads like an unintentional manifesto and though it is kinda focused on working class, queer, black feminist thought (what?
Oh, this book. Such a brilliant collection of essays, I won't even try to write a proper review. I'll just leave a quote from the essay The Uses of Anger: Women Responding to Racism. This quote sums up what feminism is all about for me. I am a lesbian woman of Color whose children eat regularly because I work in a university. If their full bellies make me fail to recognize my commonality with a woman of Color whose children do not eat because she cannot find work, or who has no children because
I'll just leave a quote from the essay The Uses of Anger: Women Responding to Racism.
I am a lesbian woman of Color whose children eat regularly because I work in a university.
And I am not free as long as one person of Color remains chained.
This is quite possibly the most important book I've read all year.
And in order to do this, we must allow each other our differences at the same time as we recognize our sameness.p142, "Learning from the 60s"I read this right on the tail of reading Zami: A New Spelling of My Name, which I loved.
I would love to be able to read this and say "Well, it's so great we don't have to worry about these old-time-thingies!" but that hasn't happened yet, and I don't see it happening anytime soon.Lorde wrote with conviction.
It is with this mythical norm that the trappings of power reside within this society.
Audre Lorde (1934-1992) was a black lesbian feminist poet and “Sister Outsider” is a collection of her essays and speeches dating from 1976 to 1984.
It feels like a really important book for white feminists to read to help understand the need for more intersectionality and to acknowledge that our experiences as women are not universal.
The last essay in this book is about the American invasion of Grenada, which I feel ashamed to say I knew nothing about previously.
I can’t say that I would recommend the format, partly because I found Eller’s narration somewhat flat but also because it’s the sort of book that needs highlighting, re-reading and taking notes.
Lorde's experiences as a black, feminist, lesbian mother of two afford her a valuable perspective.
And yes, it is very difficult to stand still and to listen to another woman's voice delineate an agony I do not share, or one to which I myself have contributed.”Lorde describes white privilege and oppression so strongly.
She also shares some precious and gut-wrenching moments of watching her daughter adjust to life on her own.Lastly, Lorde's essay about the 1983 U.S. invasion of Grenada makes points about the politics of aggression which continue to be valid today.
A book written by a woman with *taboo* identities.
I have no words to begin to describe the things I felt while reading Lorde.
And what's so amazing about that is Lorde is a poet by trade, and yet her poetic essays are probably some of the best I've ever read.
This book is written by a black lesbian, of which she reminds the reader constantly.
Lorde said it best about defining herself and indeed, the way she do so in these essays spoke through so clearly that it may be of relative inconsequence that one may not immediately identify with all her aspects of identity.
A lot of people have read this since she is definitely one of the most important and influential women in history.
I don't read a lot of non-fiction but this was written in a way where I could easily digest it without clawing my eyes out.
She is delicate and strong, knowing that she is shoved outside of everything by every sister.4.
Writing is a form of healing for those who know they are consistently clawed out of existence or muted.8.
By the way, I wonder if she has a book dedicated to her travels, I really liked that first essay.
Jak ważne tematy poruszyła autorka, a był to zaledwie czubek góry lodowej.Poczułam się pouczona jak za czasów nieprzygotowania do lekcji.
Poczułam, jak niewiele jeszcze wiem i choć nie jest to książka napisana w ostatnich latach i naiwnie wierzyć można w lepsza sytuacje na co dzień to jednak świadomość i waga tych problem czasem paraliżuje.
Paraliżuje bo wydaje Ci się, że Ty wiesz o co chodzi i Ty rozumiesz.
Ale tak długo jak będziesz białą Europejka, więcej niż prawdopodobne, że niewiele jednak jeszcze wiesz i z pokorą musisz ciągle uczyć się od swoich czarnych sióstr - ich własnej energii, historii i tożsamości.
At times I look at the world and it's inequities and it makes me feel as if I am losing my mind.
At the very least do some one thing to help the starving person next to you.
I sometimes feel that I live in a world where many suffer but many more walk around as if they were anesthetized.Audre Lorde let's me know that I have not lost my mind.
She helps me to continue the struggle.
Every day is a struggle and if it helps just one somebody it is well worth the struggle.
Thank you Audre Lorde.
Perché sono donna, perché sono Nera, perché sono lesbica, perché sono me stessa, una donna Nera lesbica guerriera che fa il suo lavoro, che è venuta a chiedervi: state facendo il vostro?Perché per sopravvivere nella bocca di questo drago, abbiamo dovuto imparare questa prima e più vitale lezione: non era previsto che noi sopravvivessimo.
Perché la macchina cercherà di stritolarci comunque, che parliamo o no.Le sole persone veramente felici che io abbia mai incontraro sono quelle tra noi che lavorano contro queste morti con tutta l’energia delle loro vite, riconoscendo la profonda e fondamentale infelicità da cui siamo circondate, e allo stesso tempo lottano per non esserne sommerse.
What beautiful prose and so relevant. I've heard Audre Lorde quotes batted around all over the place and it was wonderful to read them in context. Unlike Lorde, I prefer prose to poetry (at least at this point in my life) so I really appreciated a poet talking about politics and life. Her essay on absorbing the hatred of racism as a child was really moving and one that I will return to.
The word of our Lorde and personal saviour!This book should be an essential for every feminist bookshelf.
It is in my view that within our unconscious mind fear is resting with our other hidden abilities (i.e., activating more parts of our brain, intuitiveness, psychic abilities, etc.), and we (as women) have to defeat the fears that have been repressed in darkness.
We cannot allow our fears to grow, and upon conquering them, we will reveal our power and true nature.
Lorde would tell me that if I combine both views of myself, it will not only make me stronger, but it will introduce me to my version of poetry.
took me so long to get to a place where i could just chill the fuck out and read audre lorde.
one rationalization that dives near a truth or something truth-shaped is that i didn't that much really want to read something that i lived; don't you note the scent of recursive labor?
audre lorde as the closest thing to bring clarity around a type of living that is in perpetual danger.
like i think my entire apprehension of the political life is directly descendant from her moment in time, which made her very easy to read and understand.
but then i get anxious about what happens to audre where i say things like that.

This should be required reading for *everyone.*
I can't close what Audre Lorde has opened in me.
Definitely the best book I've read this year, and it will be hard to surpass.
This collection of essays was like a religious experience.
Lorde writes about so many issues that are still sadly relevant many years later, and explores both areas of experience that were intimately familiar to me as they would be to many women and that were so starkly different that they gave me pause that will recur over the long-term as I contemplate what life is like for Black women and queer women.
And I had to read these essays slowly, in order to ponder and absorb (both of which I am still doing).
Everyone should read this book.
Lorde’s unique way of thinking and communicating is on display in these essays about race and feminism. This is especially true in the lengthy interview in the middle of the book. I might have done better to start with her poetry though.
This book will be my guiding light for years to come. I am in awe of Audre and so thankful to have access to her words. This book is completely highlighted and loved on, and I can't wait to return to this book during different seasons of my life and see what additional knowledge I can gain.
I'd give five stars, if only for the essays "Poetry is not a luxury", "The transformation of silence into language and action", and "Uses of the erotic", but in this book Lorde seems to do more to pit black and white, LGBTQ and heterosexual people against each other than work with similarities.Underlining difference is vital when they are those between an oppressor and the oppressed, because this can yield understanding with regard to the cause and possible solutions to these inequalities.
"What are the words you do not yet have?"I came back to this beautiful sentence over and over and over again, because it is the core of Audre Lorde's work.
As a white reader, her words sting sometimes.
But, as someone who knows there is so much social justice work to be done, and that my white privilege inhibits my recognition of my role in social justice, it's an important message to read.
Thank you, Audre, for your achingly beautiful work, your pain, and your heart.
Audre Lorde accomplishes a lot in this collection of speeches and essays that tackle the intersection of patriarchy, racism and homophobia as connecting oppressive social structures.
Those who fell outside that category and were subject to other, intersecting oppressive social structures such as racism were ignored, treated with scorn or pushed to the side.
Lorde's writing, like her poetry is honest and painful to read but absolutely essential.In these pages Lorde demonstrates that intersectionality is not a separate category of feminism but integral to feminism if feminism is defined as challenging patriarchy.
Reading this book felt like homecoming.
I bought this book back in March but avoided reading it, expecting it to be difficult to read because everyone has said such great things about Audre Lorde.
This wasn't a hard read at all and the book was more revelatory than I expected it to be.
what is the process?" The amount of introspection Lorde invokes in the read is unlike anything I've ever experienced from a book before.
If you want to learn about feminism, solidarity, about yourself or about how to take your critical thinking a step further, read this.
Read!
