https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3693.Orient_Express
Bankers and other financiers who are not Jewish are not identified by their religion, only Jews.
But somehow being Jewish does.Why is Catholic not important?
Why does my mixed race son who looks White have to have it pointed out in articles that he is Black, and Jewish, do people think he might pass as a White Christian which is somehow wrong, somehow fooling people if it wasn't pointed out?
The same major themes of faith, love, identity, social justice, clinical depression and forgiveness of sins are present in this rolling microcosm of the larger world.Before starting on the actual journey by luxury train from the English Channel to the sea of Marmara, two excerpts are useful to set the mood: the epigraph by George Santayana: "Everything in nature is lyrical in its ideal essence; tragic in its fate, and comic in its existence." ...
We are all travelers through life, and this train journey imagined by Greene captures several characters at a turning point, first charmed by the romance of a new beginning, of leaving the old habits behind and hoping for a better future in that far-off, exotic point of arrival.
If T.S. Eliot, during his Prufrock-Sweeney-Wasteland days had sat down to write a novel, it might have come out looking like Graham Greene’s Orient Express (or, my preferred title, Stamboul Express).
It may be a lesser novel, but it’s certainly well-written fiction.
Yeah, the set-up does, without the brooding, sound like Agatha Christie, but in Greene’s hands the story turns into multiple reflections on good and evil, God (or not), sex, class, and anti-Semitism.
Still, there were times I thought the novel just flat out anti-Semitic.

Greene has once again created an assortment of memorable misfits: a pushy, possessive, female, English journalist with her attractive, seemingly-flighty, young companion; a shrewd, young Jewish businessman and his colleagues in Constantinople; a mysterious, middle-aged doctor whose past unfolds during the journey; a penny-less dancer in search of love; a proud author, plus other characters acquired along the route.
In the beginning I could not see where Greene was going with the story nor keep the characters straight.
(hide spoiler)]I had written a different review, but after reflecting on a friend’s review I have so revised my own.A train journey to remember.
Being a big fan of travels, he placed his plots somewhere related to some place.3* The Third Man4* The End of the Affair4* Our Man in Havana3* The Captain and the Enemy3* The Quiet American4* The Ministry of Fear4* The Power and the Glory4* The Honorary Consul3* Orient ExpressTR Brighton RockTR Travels With My AuntTR The Tenth ManTR Monsignor QuixoteTR The Heart of the Matter
This novel is one of his 'entertainments' personally categorized by himself to differentiate them from his other serious thrillers (how many titles overall belong to this less serious genre?) of which its title has long kept me wondering till I found out in the Wikipedia website (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stambou...) that Stamboul is a variant of Istanbul, the capital of Turkey, the novel's destination of the Orient Express the famous line starting from Ostend, Belgium connecting Europe and Asia.I liked the way Graham Greene has narrated on the Ostend departure setting and how Carleton Myatt sees Coral Musker before leaving the station, how they meet and know each other while traveling on the train.
Fictional train journeys are always better than fictional air travel - the lengthy journey giving the writer ample narrative time & scope to introduce plot twists & interesting characters.
Greene called his less serious work 'entertainment', still, the three nights journey from Ostend to Istanbul on the Orient Express inevitably brings the writer's usual ethical & political contretemps in the form of issues & mindsets saturated in the 1930s worldview: each stop on the itinerary bringing more trouble from the complications of the related place.Orient Express evokes an image of luxury* especially if you've books like Agatha Christie's Murder on the Orient Express in mind but Greene's journalistic sensibility brings a a factual class based approach where upward movement from a wooden chair car to a first class private compartment comes with a price in more ways than one...And what does a poor girl from the '30s bring to the table umm couch?
Introduction--Stamboul Train
Review first posted on BookLikes:"I’m tired of being decent, of doing the right thing."Stamboul Train is the story of a number of individuals who are thrown together within the confines of a train journey - a microcosm, in a way - and Greene offers us a peek into the relationships that develop between the characters and the difficulty that each of the individuals has to adapt to the society they form.It took a while to get into the story - just because every character has a story about how they came to embark on the journey on the Orient Express from Ostend to Istanbul.At first, I thought this was going to be an easy read - because it is still an early one of Greene's entertainments - but it soon turned out that Stamboul Train seems to mark quite a turning point in Greene's writing:Greene maintains his focus on the themes of individualism and social perception from a variety of angels which cannot be combined, and which - because of their incompatibility - now create a highly atmospheric state of disillusionment.

They are traveling ultimately to Istanbul.
Some are confused, others desperate, a couple are intensely selfish and one is sincerely noble, although in my opinion, the most misguided of all.The story line moves at a healthy clip and there is also suspense as the readers wonders how each individual's fate is going to conclude, but for me the most fascinating was Graham's insight into human character and how people think.

Entertaining and thought-provoking, and so well written. Greene includes quite a mix of characters, and weaves an interesting story. I thoroughly enjoyed it.
I chose it because the introduction is by Christopher Hitchens, but I was disappointed with his intro: He went on & on about the stereotypical Jew character & the character's relationship to the times (the book was written in 1932)...HOWEVER - there is a dyke character!
What about HER character's relationship to the times?
is what I'd like to know.As for the novel, Graham Greene, as usual, doesn't disappoint: An easy read, distinctive characters, interesting that they're built on stereotypes, the story builds up & moves somewhere & is never predictable...well, just keeps you guessing, you might say.
If you do a lot of digital reading, this is a great book for revisiting paper.
I think the folks accusing this book of being anti-Semitic are not reading it through.
Sure, Greene uses some phrases and physical descriptions that don't quite mesh with our modern day sensibilities, but the main Jewish character is the primary hero of the book.
I recently read Orwell's Homage to Catalonia, and the same palpable urgency is here in Greene's book, written shortly before.
Greene's red sympathies are evident, and he manages to get in a few statements that would have Marx standing and cheering.Overall, an interesting book.
With themes of sacrifice and betrayal Greene's Stamboul Train/Orient Express/Stamboul Express is able to provide a moving bio-dome of the human experience on this train headed to Constantinople.
The sealed quality, the movement, the modernity gives the writer room to experiment with characters and themes in a way that others settings would make difficult.This isn't a major Greene novel.
But, for those who love Graham Greene's approach to literature and story-telling, this book is a must.
Greene's characters are amazing in their capacity for love, sacfrice, betrayal and tragedy.
That is what makes Greene's novels so compelling and his characters so believable.
3.5/5I love Greene. He has a way of capturing your attention right from the beginning and 'orient' is no exception. I felt it was marred by the somewhat weak ending and the incessant anti-semitism was horrible. I think this was first published in '33 and if it was reflective of the attitudes of the time it throws light on how Hitler was able to succeed.
But it also had characters pondering morals and their place in the world, which is more of what I have come to expect from Greene.The story is about a disparate group of people traveling on the Orient Express, which in the book runs from Paris to Istanbul with major stops in Belgium, Germany, Austria, Hungary and Serbia.
This is not only shown overtly by the author in making the more boorish character’s clearly prejudiced and small minded but also inadvertently with Greene adhering to what he probably felt were “positive” yet stereotypical portrayals.
Interestingly enough there is also a clearly lesbian character who receives kinder (though still often stereotypical) treatment.
9 OCT 2018 - Well-written and peopled with individuals who hide behind caricatures of who they really are (or intend to be).
I do so like to be transported with a novel, and Stamboul Train was able to do just that wonderfully- and not just because it is set aboard the famous Orient Express.
It has always been a bit of a fantasy of mine – to travel across Europe aboard the Orient Express, I’d require a first class ticket and a set of matching 1930′s luggage, oh well it’s a pretty dream.The novel concerns a group of people travelling between Ostend and Istanbul.
Myatt is a wealthy Jewish businessman who meets dancer Coral Musker aboard the train, Coral is unwell and Myatt buys her an expensive sleeper ticket so she can rest.
So we begin with Stamboul Train, his fourth novel but the first to gain any real traction; the faintest hint of a mention in his bibliography.It’s not particularly good – or at least, I didn’t enjoy it.
But does that matter, really, when Greene is considered one of the greatest writers of the 20th century and I’ve never heard anybody mention Stamboul Train as one of his better novels?
It may be time to stop trying a new author with their first works, unless they sound particularly compelling.

I know that this is supposed to be a classic written by a noted author, but, I can't get excited by this book. While the story was interesting and had some memorable characters, the style of the prose left me confused on a number of occasions. Since this was my first Graham Greene novel, I will have to think hard and long before I pick up another to read.
Nice to read Graham Greene again. He has a way of unfolding a story. It's basically a series of events on the Orient Express from Ostend to Constantinople, how the lives of varios people intertwine; who gets on where and their stories. Loved it.
3.5 Slow first half but great second half. It's my first of Greene's but won't be my last.
The Orient Express heads west towards Istanbul with a motley collection of passengers, some starting from Paris, others collected along the way.
Carleton Myatt is a rich businessman going to the Turkish office of his company.
Coral Musker is a dancer heading to a job.
A mysterious doctor is returning to Yugoslavia under a false name.
Janet Pardoe is the paid companion to a middle-aged female journalist who is clearly in love with her.
All their lives get tangled up during the journey.I loved the way that Greene investigates what drives a clutch of very different individuals.
Graham Greene set the standard for noir writing -- arresting, powerful, dark and visual.
I highlighted some of his sentences just because I thought they were possibly some of the most amazing virtuoso displays in literature, and I read a lot.
As a writer, I want to consume literature that inspires and challenges me to be better, and this book, among his many others (The End of the Affair is still my favorite) is one of his most masterful.
Published in 1932, it was adapted as the film "Orient Express" in 1934, the quick turnaround an indication of Greene's fame.
The only person with a real relationship, and who has a firm grasp of the unreasonableness of the world, seems to be the border guard, Ninitch, who is not on the train, and who regards his wife as the centre of his world.Greene’s lifelong theme that would find more airtime in his later novels—that of the sinner seeking redemption—is at play here, as Dr. Czinner involves the passengers in the drama awaiting him at his destination.
Almost like the first coming of Christ to an unready audience.This book would not rank as one of my unforgettable Greene novels, although I could see the emerging novelist grappling with the subject matter that would make him famous later in his career.
While Orwell dealt with a few of the same themes overtly, Greene deals with multiple themes in the guise of a novel, after the tradition of Dostoyevsky, but Greene (true to good English literature) is highly selective in his prose.
He deals with the anti-Semitic charges that were leveled at the book--but that would only be applicable if we were 1) reading it as a truism 2) if the Jews represented were supposed to be real characters and not symbols (that is, there is much against the representatives of the Christian religion in the book).
