https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/817393.The_Eagle_and_the_Raven
"All we wanted was to be left alone". This is a book that needs to be read slowly. Come to it with a clear mind. Yes, it is full of difficult names and different tribes. Leaders of both sides come and go, all realistic characters that tell stories of a far-away time but carry a message that never becomes old. The desire of everyone of us to be free, free in every way, regardless of religion, ethnicity, financial status etc. Yes, we all live together sharing our Earth but this doesn't mean that
Leaders of both sides come and go, all realistic characters that tell stories of a far-away time but carry a message that never becomes old.
(If you haven't read it, you must!) It is the first book, though, that Caradoc takes a part of the spotlight.
Thank God that the statue of Boudica and her daughters in London by Thomas Thornycroft, facing Big Ben, stands as a witness to the candle of freedom that is put out far too many times and, yet, is always lit again...
It tells the story of the Roman invasion of Britain, first opposed by the less well-known Caradoc whose guerilla tactics might have been successful if he'd had better luck, and followed by the revolt of the better-known Boudicca.
Caradoc is a moving hero, a man determined to burn himself inside and out if it will save his people, and Boudicca is majestic and tragic as the vengeful mother to both her own wronged children and her wronged people.
Perhaps most remarkable, the Britain depicted here has magic and mystery without resorting to the cheap Mother Goddess mysticism of authors who prefer their history to come with New Age labels.

The theme of the book was freedom of the Britons, in the face of Roman invasion and occupation of Britain.
She hasn't changed; she's just as venal.While still reading, I felt any love interest between Briton and Roman to be completely over-the-top literary license.
According to the legend, the senator, Rufus Pudens, and two of Caradoc's children, the brother and sister Llyn/Linus and Gladys/Claudia became Christians and Pudens was martyred.
The Pudens, Linus, and Claudia mentioned in the New Testament may refer to them.
The Roman poet Martial did write of his "friend Pudens" marrying "Claudia the Foreigner" [Epigrams IV:13] or the "blue-eyed Briton" [Epigrams XI:53].
She seems to write women characters just a bit out of their prescribed roles, like sword fighting or telling their men they want to battle, not being completely obedient, etc.
(view spoiler)[ Gladys stood alone at Camulodunum leading the peasants in battle after Caradoc and all other chiefs fled but when she fell in love with her Roman captor, she put down her sword and was whisked away to Rome to live a comfortable life.
I think that was a slap in the face at the end to have Boudicca die that way.
Το δεύτερο φυσικά είναι η ιστορία που δημιουργείται από τον συνδυασμό των ιστορικών δεδομένων και της φαντασίας του συγγραφέα να είναι ενδιαφέρουσα και συναρπαστική.
Τέλος ιδιαίτερα σημαντικό είναι η γραφή του να είναι όμορφη και συγκινητική για να μπορέσει να μας μεταφέρει σε εκείνη την εποχή που διαδραματίζεται η ιστορία μας και να μας βάλει στην ψυχολογία αυτών που την έζησαν.
Ακόμα και σε αυτή την προσέγγιση όμως το βιβλίο μου άρεσε ιδιαίτερα.
Η συγγραφέας καταφέρνει με έναν πολύ ωραίο τρόπο να μας μεταφέρει σε αυτή τη μακρινή εποχή και να μας εμπλέξει συναισθηματικά με τους γνωστούς από την ιστορία ήρωες.

"such a little word, freedom, such a small request, and yet it has consumed the soul of a people." Far away, in the swirling autumn mists of Albion, the light of freedom flickered.If I could give this book more than 5 stars, I would do so gladly.
Whether you are from Celtic decent or not, should you read this book, you will appreciate the struggle of a people who were far from barbaric; who were artists, poets, and craftsmen and whose only longing was to be free.
The resistance of a people simply trying to be free.
A story familiar to all peoples who have resisted tyranny and still do to this day.
A story of the primal will to be free....
The story she creates is fast moving, keeping me glued to the pages, but she still has a way of packing an emotional punch – I was in tears by the last pages.I was expecting the story to be more focused on Boudicca, based on the book cover, but I don't necessarily feel that's a negative – the scope is far larger and ends up giving a more complete story about the resistance to Rome.
In some ways, I didn't feel like the scope was large enough – I wanted to see Aricia get her comeuppance, and to see what happened to Venutius.
Once I familiarized myself with the different names and places the book moved along rather quickly.
Gedge did a fantastic job making me feel like I was involved in the relationship between Caradoc and his wife Eugrain.
As far as I am concerned, Gedge could have moved Caradoc and his family to Rome and never spoke of them again.
I found what I was looking for in Boudicca's story but was left wanted when after only about 100 pages the book came to an grinding end.
(hide spoiler)] If you seek to read this novel thinking it will tell the story of Boudicca, warrior queen, you will find yourself disappointed.
My edition of this book has a striking profile of a fierce woman on a cover and the book blurb promises “Spanning three generations, this historical novel tells the tale of Boudicca, the most famous warrior of ancient Britain, and Caradoc, the son of a Celtic king, who sets out to unite the people of the Raven and lead them against Rome”.
She is mentioned, very briefly, in a few chapters and one hopes she will show up later in the book, but I picked this up because I wanted a novel about Boudica and she is not the main character in the story (Caradoc and his family is), for me the book blurb is misleading.Sadly, I’ve decided to put this book aside.
I love my Pauline Gedge, but of her novels, this has to be my least favorite. Note that it is not a bad novel. Part of the problem with me is the blurb, there really isn't much Boudicca in it. Additionally the characterization isn't as good as her later novels. But mostly, I think it would be a much better novel if told from Aricia's pov. Yes, yes I know. But everyone is bad mouthing her and all, but still. I think it would more interesting. In fact, the book is most lively with Aricia and Galdys.
My heart is in complete shambles.Full Review:How do you write a review for a book like this - that takes you to this magical world (I say "magical" even though this world 100% exists because the way Gedge writes Albion is so beautiful, so majestic, so ethereal, that words cease to accurately express the wonderment you have when you read this book and get transported here), into these incredibly crafted people and then slowly breaks your heart as you read the tragedy of the Roman Occupation of England?Probably 95% of the book is the precursor to the more famous story of Boudicca and how she very nearly was able to oust the Romans from Albion.
The bigger picture revolves around the Albion’s struggle to survive the Roman oppression, a fight for freedom which has at its core the legendary Arviragus, the man that defied Rome and lived to tell about it, this is the story of Caradoc, his family and brethren; or the Roman invasion of Britannia, all seen from through Celtic eyes.Myth, history, fiction are all entwined with such finesse bringing forth the forgotten world of druids, tribes, bards and sword women.
The legions invade and give battle to the low-lands of Britannia, defeating the gathering of tribes led by Tog and Caradoc.
“Vercingetorix went to Rome in chains and so will you.” This was a very nostalgic re-read for me, as I first read this book as a child, and it was the book in fact that introduced me to the author, Pauline Gedge. Gedge more frequently writes in ancient Egypt, but her one foray into Romano-Celtic Britain is utterly enrapturing.The book is marketed as a tale of Boudicca, but it really isn’t. Boudicca’s story comes into its own towards the end, but for much of the book it is a slow-burning second
It’s a rare but welcome pleasure when the majority of books I read are simply competent, or worse, pedestrian and functional in their prose.Gedge’s understanding of the time and place she writes about is another key factor in her success.
I have read a lot of historical novels over the years, and for me there is nothing more frustrating than when characters spout 21st century values, or when it is clear that an author doesn’t understand a particular institution, custom, or mode of thought.
somewhere between 4.5 and 5 stars
The characters are complex and well drawn, and ancient Britain under the Romans is very well described.
It is about ancient Britain more generally, with other tribal leaders (first Caradoc and then Venutius) occupying most of the book.
It’s also dense, with many characters and lots of detail, so it’s best read in long sections, rather than in little snippets.I checked what is known about the history and it seems that, at least in broad strokes, the book is historically accurate.
My only criticism of the book is that I wish that my edition had had a map of ancient Britain.
It is the worst HF book I have read in a long time.
Yet I do not feel any closer to the culture or to any of the characters.
The book is about some jumble of relationship of some indistinct characters, but the actual details about the culture that I would be interested in are missing.
Overall one star from me, but anyone who reads this review should mind that this rating is based only on the first 15% of the book.
The book might improve later on but I am not interested enough to find out.
Most of the first part tells the story of Caratacus and Cartimandua (a pity Gedge didn't include any historical notes on sources, as they are here called Caradoc and Aricia, and I got halfway through the book before I realised who they were).
There are rather too many characters who play a major role for a while and then slip out of view, but Gedge does a good job of drawing out the contrast between the fates of Caradoc and Boudicca.
Most of the novel is about Caradoc (usually called Caratacus), the man who led a failed rebellion before she did.
Boudicca’s actual rebellion doesn’t start until the last 100 pages, which requires some creative pace-changing on Pauline Gedge’s part to get through all of the rebellion in such a short amount of page space.I truly would not recommend this novel.
I truly had to struggle to finish this novel, something that I don’t do often, no matter how boring the novel is.The main characters in The Eagle and the Raven are very well-developed.
La primera parte me parece redonda, a pesar de tener un exceso de Aricia...
La historia de Caradoc esta bien construida.
Pero la explicación de su vida romana sobra...
a pesar de ser históricamente bastante correcta.
Por mi el libro podría acabar aquí, pero claro...
con esta temática todos queríamos leer sobre Boadiccea...
sobre todo cuando la introducen al principio.
Pero entre lo bueno de Caradoc y las últimas 100 paginas sublimes sobre ella hay un buen montón de texto bisagra que no deja de chirriar....
Si no fuera por eso, tendría una puntuación mas alta.
Pero como es se queda en 3,5/5
Y es que Águilas y Cuervos se centra en la guerra de conquista por Britania por parte de los romanos en los tiempos del emperador Claudio, en un momento en el que las Galias ya eran una posesión romana y las fronteras continentales estaban perfectamente definidas en el eje Rin-Danubio.
La verdad es que a pesar de sus más de 800 páginas, hay puntos en los que se me ha quedado un poco corta, hay personajes importantes (Venutio, Aricia) cuyo final no queda claro, aunque lo cierto es que la novela es una crónica muy representativa de como pudieron ser los últimos días de Albión antes de convertirse en la Britania Romana.
Muy buen libro, mejor si ya has leído algo de la presencia de los Roma en Britania por ejemplo Rosemary Sutcliff
She is a minor character until about the last hundred pages.The first half of the book is pretty much about Caradoc.
The second half is divided into four stories, Caradoc in Rome, the western tribes, Arica and Boudicca.
The four stories in the second half of the book felt like they just stopped, with no closure really except for Boudicca's.
The first half of the book felt like that could be the end, there was closure.Besides that, it's a great read.
I felt like I was part of that world.
A great novel if you like historical fiction.
This is a must-read for anyone wanting to learn about Britain in Roman times, a subject not really covered in American schools.
In fact, I've read extensively on the history of the Roman Empire, and believe that it should receive much more attention in World History classes.
The novel format makes the historical information "go down easy." This book has adult situations, but I would recommend it to homeschooled high schoolers who may have more choices in their curriculum than other students.
Along these same lines, I would also recommend Warrier Queen by Alan Gold.
I finished reading this book last month and gave it a four star rating. But I realize now that it was definitely an awesome 5 star read for me. At least once a day something will happen or I will read something that reminds me of the characters and I miss them! I want to read it again.
It's epic -- 700 pages. I don't remember it being that long when I read it twenty years ago (it was first published in 1978). Queen Boudica is just one of many characters brought vibrantly to life.
Eso sí, las mujeres celtas de este libro, tal y como la autora nos las describe, son fascinantes y es imposible no quedarse prendado de ellas.También algo que se suele comentar es que empiezas a leer pensando que trata sobre Boudicca y ella apenas coge protagonismo hasta el final ya y se centra más en Caradoc y su familia, pero entiendo que lo interesante de Boudicca está justo en ese tramo final y que el resto del tiempo simplemente los icenos se limitaron a vivir una vida normal y corriente, y por tanto, no es necesario novelizarlo y el libro queda mucho más completo si conocemos lo que ocurre en otras tribus, así que tampoco lo veo como un punto negativo.En conclusión, es una novela muy bonita y muy triste.
I read this eons ago and it is one of my favorite historical novels. I don't think you can go wrong with the Roman Invasion of Britain and Celtic resistance.
Lu en 1984 mais j'en ai conservé une forte impression Les derniers soubresauts de la résistance des tribus celtes face à l'envahisseur romain
