https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11306.The_Dark_Is_Rising_Sequence
This series is fantastic, and has been horridly overlooked, particularly so seeming that our current culture seems so fascinated with all things Potter.
I love this series, and have for years.
Within the past two years, I introduced these books to my wife, who seethed with anticipation for the next time we would sit down so I could read to her.
I'll do the same, given time, with my daughter - I'm really looking forward to that.If you're a fan in any way of L'Engle's A Wrinkle in Time series, I have a feeling you'll dig these books.
These are AMAZING books.
When I was 10, I didn't sleep for days after reading "The Dark Is Rising." Also, you can read the first two books out of order--most people seem to read "The Dark Is Rising" before they read "Over Sea Under Stone." They will feel like they were written by two different people, because "Over Sea Under Stone," is like a lighthearted children's adventure story, and "The Dark Is Rising" is much more, well, DARK.
If you like:-Harry Potter-Philip Pullman-Narnia-King Arthur-magic-myth-funny things-English people-any people-big ideas-reading-booksyou will love:The Dark is Rising sequence.(any of the above is sufficient.)These are the books that made me love reading, that made me sneak a flashlight under the covers at night to pick up where my father had last read aloud. The sequence begins mundanely, with three children going on holiday in Cornwall in Over Sea Under Stone, and ends in a battle of Arthurian proportions in Silver on the Tree. Read this book—it is fluid, well-plotted, excellently characterized, funny, scary, tragic, and awesome.
You know what is weird? Grown adults reading or re-reading kids books and then complaining about plot issues or problems with the mythological underpinnings that no 10 year old would ever spot. I loved these when I read them aged 9 or 10, and have very fond memories of feeling enveloped within their world.
Will needs to find Six Signs if he is to defeat the forces of darkness this midwinter and help fulfil a mysterious prophecy:“When the Dark comes rising six shall turn it back;Three from the circle, three from the track;Wood, bronze, iron; Water, fire, stone;Five will return and one go alone.Iron for the birthday; bronze carried long;Wood from the burning; stone out of song;Fire in the candle ring; water from the thaw;Six signs the circle and the grail gone before.Fire on the mountain shall find the harp of goldPlayed to wake the sleepers, oldest of old.Power from the Green Witch, lost beneath the sea.All shall find the Light at last, silver on the tree.”Of all the books in the series, The Dark is Rising is my favourite, perhaps because it was the first I ever read, perhaps because of the vividness of the setting (a small snow-bound English village that seems outwardly normal but is still shadowed with magic, menace and danger), perhaps because I loved the idea of an ordinary boy who finds himself the carrier of an extraordinary destiny.
Good kids bookRtc
Many years before J.K. Rowling thought of a wizarding school and a great fight of good v.
It still held my attention, it still had menace, suspense, and the heroism of good against evil!
I love it!Book 2 - The Dark Is RisingI saw the movie of this a while back.
There's no comparison between the book and the film!Merriman is back and so is the Dark.
Sinister horseman, time travel, magic imbued in trees, and Twelfth Night.Book 3 - Greenwitch Back to Cornwall and the Dark is threatening once again.
A secret comes forth.Book 5 - Silver on the Tree The final fight against the Dark!
A dstinctive feature of this series of five children's books is that there are two distinctive groups of view point characters.
Recommended for youngsters, it is the kind of series that can grow with the reader as the books become more complex as they progress.
It's a fantasy-ish story, but set in, well, what would have been current day for Susan Cooper at the time of writing it.
But right now I'm having a difficult time expressing why they were my favorites as a kid, except perhaps that they captured, in exactly the way I needed them to at the time, the recurring theme in children's literature of finding an extraordinary purpose in your life at that stage of introduction to adolescence...Harry Potter does this probably most famously these days, but The Dark is Rising series has a more archaic, or perhaps more classical, feel to the story, characters, and writing.
I first read these books about twenty years ago, when I was just 9 years old.
These scenes had managed to imprint themselves very deeply, so that long after the name of the author and the titles of the books were forgotten, I kept coming back to these flashes.
I immediately purchased this box set and read through all five books in about two days time.
The books are terrible.
I know that at least two of them are Newberry award winners, but I really found them unbearably difficult to read.
At no point toes one actually feel that the characters actually worked through a problem.
A series I have enjoyed for many years. It is a children's book, so not for everyone.To understand the whole you obviously need to read all the books. However, I would suggest starting with the second book The Dark is Rising (same name as the whole).My favorite in the series, and the first I read, was The Grey King. I did not feel that I suffered for doing so, in fact maybe it was why I liked the entire series.Enjoy...if you dare..
For the children the task is to “drive it back, so that the world of men may be free.”Yes, it is a bit vague, but on the other hand, Dark is not exactly bad, and Light is not exactly good, which is in Susan Cooper’s favour.
I don’t know a lot about Susan Cooper, but I think it to her credit that she conceived this sequence as five short novels and stuck to that.
So in the end, I’m not sure how good I think these novels are.
Every day I spent as a boy reading these pages was filled with a wonder and a desire for the world to be as magical and mysterious as Will's world.
But there was delight, too, from a truly wonderful story never to be forgotten.My own years go by and too many things change, but I still come back to these stories again, over and over.
I can't wait to read them aloud again to my two younger children, as much to revisit the fictional friends who anchor me to the wonder and magic of youth as to share that magic with my daughters and son.
I just finished the final book in the series the other day, and it was pretty great.
As a whole, Cooper's The Dark is Rising series was well written, and the stories flowed from one to the other without being too repetitive.
I really enjoyed jumping right in to each book, and they went by pretty fast.
I must admit though that I didn't like one part of the ending, and while I'm sure Cooper had her reasons, I didn't want the characters to forget.
If you want to understand that, read the books.
More detailed review here: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...The Dark Is Rising, the second book, seems to be for a bit older audience.
His coming of age rings very true: one moment he's accepting his power, but the next he's still a young boy setting fire to things.
I have a more detailed review here: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...Greenwitch is the shortest book.
Again, the characters are amazingly believable, and there's real tension and suspense.
Longer review here: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...The Grey King is lovely.
The characters in this book are all believable and spectacular.
Proper review here: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...Silver On The Tree is the final book.
I'm sure most of you friends who might end up reading this review have already read this series, but for anyone who hasn't, these books are the pre-Potter classics that may have really sparked J.K.'s joy of reading when she was a girl (in fact, I do remember reading one particular article in which Rowling mentions Susan Cooper as a favorite hero).So Shelly Radmall and I were talking about being Anglophiles when we were chatting last at a girls' night out.
I asked her if she'd read these books as they definitely satiate an English and Welsh appetite for all things classic regarding: good vs.
After hearing a lot about this series, I was very disappointed in how pedestrian it was.
Following along with C.S. Lewis's The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe, it all starts on a rainy day with a bunch of British kids bored and playing in a big house.
It sort of just follows a lot of the plot elements without the fantastical magical stuff and the moral dilemma that adds depth.
The link to Arthurian tales seems week, just some sort of excuse for a back-story and a Peggy Parish style kids mystery.
I think I loved this when I read it at the proper age -- 12 or so, I suppose.
My kids seemed to enjoy it, though (I read it aloud.).
Actually, my son particularly enjoyed Will's nearly instant acceptance of his role.
Bumped my rating up from 2 stars to three because I'm so far beyond the intended audience age group, but, as I said, if I'd rated this when I first read it I imagine I'd have given it a 4 or 5.
Long before there was Harry Potter, there was Will Stanton.Again, my aunt Michele (who is probably barely talking to me just now, apologies again) was the wonderful person who gave me this book.
Sadly, my copy has finally disintegrated, so I shall have to replace it again before Christmas of this year.This book is wonderful - magic, mystery, great baddies (who would win - The Dark Rider v Voldemort)and a series of books that enthral me even now.If you like Harry Potter - you will love this.
My all time favorite fantasy series. I make a point to re-read this series every year to drink in Cooper's enlivening of old Celtic myths twined through an eleven-year-old protagonist. Her prose is seamless, her story compelling. If you like fantasy that's about the characters yet still gives you an aura of magic, I dare you to put this series down.
Before Harry Potter even considered uttering one misbegotten bastardized Latin phrase, Susan Cooper wrote the Dark is Rising series. Heavily reliant on Welsh mythology, incredibly sympathetic main character (in Will), beautiful, lyrical, and amazing. Every kid should read these books.They are also wonderful on tape.
One of the classics that introduced me to fantasy and mythology as a kid, and I still re-read and enjoy now.The writing is simple, elegant and vivid, the characterisation much more detailed and complex than one might expect from books aimed at children, and the descriptions of settings are always spot on, so real that you can smell them.
I reread all 5 of these books over the last couple of weeks, because I remembered loving them so much as a kid but was unable to remember any details.
So, they definitely hold up, not like certain other books I could name (*cough Wrinkle in Time cough*).
But now I'm remembering why I was so obsessed with Welsh history as a kid, and re-meeting Bran was like a ghost appearing--he was so familiar and so strange at the same time.
And I think the reason that the books seemed so confusing and dreamlike to me as a kid is because when the magic starts happening, the logic gets very dreamlike.
As it stands, reading it for the first time as an adult, there were some parts that worked wonderfully, and other parts that just didn't sit well with me at all.
As a whole, The Grey King is my favorite and I think the best of them all, but I did enjoy the ending of the last book.
The series is worth reading, but if you're like me and going into it as an adult, don't expect Tolkien, Lewis, or Rowling.
The Grey King
Happy Reading!
Una storia in vecchio stile "Isole Britanniche": vengono qui riprese le vicende della letteratura cavalleresca che prevedono riferimenti ad Artù e al Graal, ma anche qualche vicenda familiare e fantastica vista in altre opere fantasy scritte da scrittori e scrittrici provenienti da questa specifica regione del mondo.
Il bene e il male si scontrano attraverso 5 volumi che si inseriscono perfettamente in quella specie di grande disegno messo insieme da nomi quali C.S. Lewis o J.R.R. Tolkien.
Lo consiglio in particolare a chi non si sia già consumato gli occhi davanti a storie di questo tipo, ma credo che anche i lettori più esperti possano trovare in questi libri qualcosa di gradevole da leggere.
Faint shades of Enid Blyton in “Over Sea Under Stone” deepen in The Dark Is Rising” to begin to approach the skill and imagination of Alan Garner. No holiday in North Wales has ever been quite the same after I read “Silver On the Tree”.Very imaginative, and grippingly good to read.
While classified as a young reader's book, it's still am entertaining and well written story for any age interested in fantasy. The movie was a so-so adaptation of the book, so don't gauge the book in any way on the movie
My absolute favourite series as a child. It's such a shame that no one knows about this series -- it's so sublime.
This is literally my favorite fantasy book in the entire world.
1. Over Sea Under Stone ⭐⭐⭐⭐2. The Dark is Rising ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐3. Greenwitch ⭐⭐⭐⭐4. The Grey King ⭐⭐⭐⭐5. Silver on the Tree ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
1. Over Sea Under Stone ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️2. The Dark is Rising ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️3. Greenwitch ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️4. The Grey King ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️5. Silver on the Tree ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️
