https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24929.Lost
There are lots of kinds of people in the world and from the reviews here it appears that they fall into two categories: those who would like the wheel to be reinvented consistently every time, and those who enjoy variety and evolution.
Some people like to cozy up and read a good book, others enjoy the intellectual challenge of digesting literature.
The thing about Maguire is that he demonstrated his ability to write and combine pulp fiction and literature when he wrote Wicked.
The negative reviews you see here are largely from people who couldn't figure out how to re-read Wicked!
I hated this book.
I've all his other books and enjoyed them.
This one however was terrible.
It makes you think it's going to be about the Scrooge and Jack the Ripper and then has nothing about it.
Boring, long, goes all over the place with no reason as to why or outcome.
The end sucks and makes no sense.
It's terrible, I'm glad I got it used so it was only 5 bucks but I could have gotten a Subway foot long instead!
lol It's a frustrating book that goes way out there and never comes back...waste.
She writes children's books but would like to write one for adults with a heroine named Wendy Pritzke.
I felt like I was trying to follow a maze and that feeling continued throughout the book with her interactions with all the other characters.When she arrives in England, she finds another mystery: her cousin has disappeared.
As she is running around offending the neighbors and trying to find her cousin or the ghost or the cat or whatever, she is imagining scenes in her mind from her adult book.
If you like Gregory Maguire and you haven't read the book, go for it.
"Lost" differs from its "Wicked" "Stepsister" cousins in that it does not (as closely) follow a traditional fairytale turned on its head. Echoing back to "Christmas Carol" and "Alice in Wonderland," it is not a straight rendition of either, but its own tale.Much of the book is spent wondering what really has occurred, as the line between reality and illusion are blurred. The ending, though, is satisfying. Worth the read.
Let me start this review by saying that I've read and reviewed Gregory Maguire's most famous and critically-acclaimed work entitled Wicked: The Life and Times of the Wicked Witch of the West, which was turned into a Broadway musical hit--and I didn't end up being as impressed about it as I hoped I would be.
Author Maguire himself has been known to write novels about well-known fictional characters created by other, much like with Wicked whose central figure if the supposed villain of the original Wizard of Oz books.
In Lost, however, we are presented something much more rewarding, at least for me -- a ghost story of sorts in the present day.
It is a very simple but very effective technique, especially because Maguire's book is also a meditation on the way we construct narratives from our lives, both about ourselves and our place in the world, and about ghosts and the nature of haunting in our lives.
We journey with Winnie from contemplating the usual canned ideas of ghosts-- that ghosts with unfinished business are haunting the world, unable to move on to the next world, lost in this one.
In Lost, there is unfinished business, there is haunting.
In fact, there was only one character in the book that I truly and unreservedly liked, and he only came in sort of near the end.
Yes, there were reason that the protagonist had the personality she did, and those reasons came out very near the end.
I never did figure out how that was supposed to work into the whole framework of the story, despite a letter that the cousin reads to her at the end of the book.What Maguire was trying to do here I cannot fathom.
When her tortured soul connects with a medieval ghost the book takes interesting twists and turns, presenting us with some wonderful characters and creepy moments.
Wendy, the main character, is interesting enough to follow despite being a wet blanket and there is an unexpectedly subtle ending that leaves you feeling satisfied despite its vague ambiguity as to if Wendy will ever achieve her happy ending.
Truly, an under-praised novel, worth reading by fans of Maguire and lovers of ghost stories in general.
This is the second book I've read by Gregory Maguire and I must say ---question mark--- because I just don't understand the point.
His book Wicked must have been extraordinarily different, i.e. good.
The one supposedly about Snow White and this one supposedly having something to do with Scrooge left me feeling cold.
I never finished the one about Snow White and I leave this one regretting I did.
I had to force my way through the bad turn of phrase and plodding plot only to find he would not even impart a satisfactory ending.
It may as well have ended mid-phrase.
And that is the big tragedy that torments and nearly destroys her.
I have two children, and yes, it is a horrible tragedy when any child dies, but I don't get the connection here.
She seems to be tormented because she likes being miserable.Anyway, I would recommend that people skip this book, and read his other fabulous stories: Wicked, Son of a Witch, Mirror Mirror, The Ugly Stepsister.
If you must read Lost, please read it after you read the other books.
Lost is not a good representation of what Maguire can deliver to a reader.
She's somehow separated from her life, and she constantly asks herself "how would Wendy Pritzke respond to this?" While that may be a legitimate technique for an author, Winnie takes it too far.
It's only as we read more scraps of her novel about Wendy Pritzke that things begin to come clear.As with many Maguire novels, the supernatural bleeds slowly into the real world, requiring no suspension of disbelief as we gradually accept the individual events and growing sense of unease.Jenny Sterlin does an excellent job reading the book.
It contains a number of visual cues to explain just what you're reading, such as writing the Wendy Pritzke manuscript in another font (looks like Courier New).
The story itself was really sort of a grown-up coming of age story -- only throw in ghostly possession, a bizarre intra-familial love triangle, and a secondary Roman a Clef (being drafted by the protagonist) within the primary novel.
There were a few issues that were never fully explained and while I found the secondary novel to be interesting insofar as the clues it provided to the protagonist's motivations, after a while (by the point at which I'd figured out the 'mystery') it began to detract from the real story.
I was really excited to read this book - I enjoyed Gregory Maguire's WICKED.
The historical stuff barely panned out, and when I realized halfway through the book that one of three plots was a lie, and that the characters involved were stupider than I thought, I lost 95% of my interest.
I did push through and discover why the characters would lie to each other like that, but at that point I really didn't care.
When the plot finally turned into a real ghost story, I was just pushing through because I had nothing else to read.
I loved both and was excited to read Lost, even if it seemed like it wouldn't be sticking to our original assumptions of Maguire's twisting of stories we grew up with.
His characters are hardly likable what with their 'better than you' dialogue and their unrealistic quality.
Our main character, Winifred, weaves stories as a novelist and seems to cuddle with fairytales that she and we grew up with.
I would also hazard to mention that Maguire's humor truly keeps the story going and the link-up's between characters of Peter Pan, Alice in Wonderland, and the delightful Scrooge was probably the most fascinating thing about this novel.
Kind of like "The Real Story of the Three Little Pigs," which was told by the wolf, and is one of my favorite picture books.The jacket left me feeling woozy with the thought that I could again feel the thrill of gaining new insight into a previously underappretiated character: Scrooge.
Additionally, as I am considering venturing into writing myself, I loved the questions Macguire raised, like What is the true identity of a novelist?
I found Maguire brought in too many disparate themes, including poltergeists, possessions, Jack the Ripper, and Scrooge, without bringing substantial depth or increased understanding of the main character, novelist Winifred (Winnie) Rudge.Still, Maguire does several things right.

I was disappointed.
I was expecting similar to Mirror Mirror or Wicked Witch.
But this story does not take up the Scrooge story and tell the wonderfully different perspective of another character within the old stories.
No, this is a new story only using the Scrooge story as an excuse to begin, to exhist.If I lay aside my expectations, I still am not impressed.
Within the story is another story - the main character is a writer therefore she goes into "episodes" where she is not paying attention to anything around her because she is narrating her own book within her head.
I don’t remember when I read this one, but it was unfortunately my first of his books. I took it back to the store. It was so boring. I don’t usually, well, I don’t ever say that. Later though, I finally picked up another of his and didn’t leave the store until it had intrigued me. Now I’m a huge fan of his—except for this book. Not this one. No. No. Stay away from this one.
I can't remember when I quit reading a book when I was halfway through, but I quit this one! I just didn't like it. I couldn't understand where the author was taking me - unless he was trying to portray one of the most pitiful characters in all of fiction - that of Winifred Rudge.
The plot began to fizzle as the main character, Winnie, literally wanders in circles in London and I gave up any interest in seeing if her story would ever resolve.A few weeks ago, I thought I'd try again.
I remember with Wicked, too, getting to the middle of the book and feeling like Maquire was just spinning his wheels, having built up such an intricate plot and then needing to wander through Oz and Munchkinland and everywhere else before the story could pick up steam again and race to the conclusion.
Like so many other reviewers, I felt LOST myself as I worked my way through the story.
I was hovering between 2 or 3 stars for this as I couldn't really get into it the whole way through.
- there was the difficulty of parsing what really happened versus what is fiction, there was the difficulty of not being able to let go, there was the impossibility of moving on.If you found it difficult to follow my last paragraph, you know how I felt reading Lost.
Perhaps I'm being facetious, but I felt very lost throughout it.
Not always in a bad way, but not always in a good way either, since I'm not exactly sure that I found what I had lost by the time the book was over.Would not really recommend.
No. Just. NO! This book made NO SENSE! I love Gregory Maguire, but this!? Nope... I borrowed it for FREE and I want a refund.
Not his best work...
Typically, I love it when an author goes beyond the typical word choice and challenges the reader; however, I felt that every other word that Gregory Maguire uses is different, and not just to change the monotony of some language, but also different JUST to be different.
In a way, it somewhat forces the reader to 're-read' the book once you've completed it so that you can actually understand what it was about.
The concept of asking for help had NOTHING to do with the book, but further reiterated the need and past life of the ghost that possessed her.
It’s very rare that I dislike a book this much. Slow, boring, and annoying. I kept debating on whether to finish it or not and I struggled my way to the end because it surely had to get better. Well, it didn’t. I’ve really liked so many of his books so I was really surprised to read this clunker.
Winnie/Wendy/Ophelia/Opal the main character comes to town, finds that her cousin (and former lover apparently, but you have to read that in the book, it isn't on the dust jacket or anything), John is missing.
Winendophelal throws a temper tantrum at her cousin when he comes back into the picture, she runs away, she goes to see the old lady, and then she herself becomes possessed.Honestly, if you want to skip the first two chapters all together, just read the back of the book.
There is also the fact that Maguire illustrates the depth of his knowledge of English literature, including the works of Dickens, Carroll and Barrie, which although they don't make the book seem any better, help illustrate the notion that Winnie has fallen into this strange, dreary world where nothing seems to be what it is, just as Alice found when she fell down the rabbit hole.
After the experience that was this novel, I feel that if I read any other of Maguire's works, it will be tentatively, and not with very high expectations.
Winnie Rudge starts off with nothing more than the intention to write her novel, only to be propelled into a story that takes on a life of its own.
Or how I was supposed to feel about it all.The story took so many turns, intertwining so many characters, set in locations with so much detail that I felt more lost and overwhelmed than informed, which I assume was the intentional goal of so much information.Gregory Maguire, hands down, writes amazing tales.
Lost is too present day that the story seems more like modern craziness.This is not one of my favorites by Maguire.
I am an admirer of Gregory Maguire's work, especially Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister and Wicked, and I have read all his other novels.
What went wrong with Lost?It's partly that single point of view (third person, with excerpts from the novel Winifred is writing, which may or may not be autobiographical.)We discover late in the book that Winifred is an 'unreliable narrator' and at this point, if the reader hasn't already given up, the story is turned on its head.
Perhaps Maguire was setting himself a technical challenge with this book, but it falls down badly on storytelling.For those of you who haven't read anything by Gregory Maguire, try Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister as your introduction to his work.
