https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9219901-unbearable-lightness
It crosses my mind to vocalize my thoughts of self-loathing because speaking the thoughts that fuel the sobs would have to burn more calories than just thinking the thoughts…”I’ve read/seen a number of stories about eating disorders, and no one has ever gone so deep into the little nooks and crannies of her particular brand of crazy as Portia de Rossi.I was both appalled and in awe.
Her story is emotional and terrifying.But the book has major problems.
She gives us all the nitty-gritty, down and dirty details of her eating disorder then glosses over her journey back to health?
Sad, frightening, tortuous and just plain crazy, this was engrossing yet at times painful to read.We are given some insight into Portia’s life however this does not read like your standard memoir, focusing almost exclusively on her eating disorder and shying away from any real understanding of her career or personal relationships.
In a vague sense we learn of Portia’s childhood in Australia, her early modeling days, first marriage in Los Angeles and almost invisible, worthless feelings associated with Ally McBeal.
Basing any happiness on losing weight, because everything will be perfect if she can just lose 5-10-15 lbs.
At 82 lbs she’s consuming just 300 calories a day.
Before I begin my review of this book, I want to share the story of the first and last time I forced myself to throw up.
I was born gay in a society where the word faggot is tossed around like footballs are thrown on Sunday, born homosexual in a world where my own mother prefers me dead than happy with a man.
I couldn’t change any of this – all I thought I could do was struggle through school and maybe make a friend or two.Couple that with the need to be above average.
at some point, in one brief passage, she fingers her father as the obvious culprit, but the book makes abundantly clear that the relation between portia and her mother is not a little problematic.
i like that portia points out that all of us have a basic weight we'll naturally gravitate around if things are pretty decent for us and we don't eat crazily, but i am sorry she didn't say that, for some people, this weight is not 130 lb.
maybe i will teach the second half of this book.
The goal was not literature, but to send a message, and this she accomplishes very well.It was, to me, a very powerful book and something I really strongly feel should be read by anyone going through a diet or appearance struggle.
I read that and thought "good girl!" because, it is an intelligent way to choose to live your life, regardless of who you are, where you're from, or what your circumstances.I read her message about her sexuality, and her attempt to fit into a mold.
I read this book back when I was about 18 years old and still to this day it has stayed with me.
My copy of this book has been in so many hands of people that are closest to me because I just felt like it needed to be read.
I think I recommended it so much because I wanted my family and friends to try and understand me a little better.
The writing throughout this book could have been a little better but if you put that aside and remember this is a very raw, sad reality that Portia De Rossi articulates so well.
And I'm particularly interested in Portia de Rossi because she's interesting looking (those eyebrows) and she's been on two (prematurely cancelled) shows that I've loved: Arrested Development and Better Off Ted. I'm not really familiar with her from the Ally McBeal years and I take no small amount of pride in never having seen one episode of that show (too busy watching "90210").
In reading this book I recognized that it's a very fine line between watching your weight and staying fit and disordered eating.
de Rossi's assessment of what is or isn't disordered eating is interesting but I won't give away the ending.
There are two reasons to write a book like this when you are stricken with a psychological illness like anorexia: 1) as therapy, to catalog the dark places you went, so that you can take it out once in a while and reread it to remind yourself of those dark places so that you never let yourself go there againb) to give help and hope to those who are struggling with the same illness you vanquished.Here's the thing though: if you're doing a), you don't publish it.
And she devotes very little time to the hard work of how she got better.
If Portia is under the delusion that this book is "helping" people, I have news for her.
This is a surprisingly good and inspiring story of one woman's struggle with anorexia.
Portia's anorexia intensified when she got an acting job on the 1990s TV show "Ally McBeal," and she was so terrified of being outed as a lesbian that her weight dropped down to 98 pounds.
She also met her future spouse, Ellen DeGeneres, which boosted her emotional well-being.The memoir is well-written and details the obsessive thought process that someone with anorexia can have.
By the end of the book, Portia has figured out a healthy eating plan and no longer torments herself over food.I would highly recommend this book to anyone who has struggled with body image or an eating disorder.
I've always had a girlcrush on Portia de Rossi, and especially what she stands for: that lesbians can be glamorous and feminine.
The best part of the book is the end, when she encourages us to "welcome the worst case scenario" into our lives, telling us how her life became beautiful once she did.
But her worst case scenario was getting fat and getting found out to be a lesbian.
THAT'S your worst case scenario?
I didn't leave the book feeling inspired and motivated, I left it feeling a bit in awe that someone could be that selfish.
Having both suffered and recovered from an eating disorder, this was a difficult read for me.
I strained to read it slowly, as during each passage centered on Portia’s sickness, I revisited my own.
To increase my calorie intake was to lose control (little did I know, I had lost it long before).Because of Portia’s bravery, I feel compelled (or at least, able) to share what I have spent my entire life most ashamed of.
If I had read this novel during my own experience with anorexia, it could have saved my life.
Portia visits a dietician.
Brilliantly written, intense, engaging, and utterly courageous in it's honesty.
Portia bears her soul to the world in this book.
This is a story about a lot of things, but first and foremost, it is a story about being afraid.
This is one those books that forces you to examine your perspective.
It speaks directly to that voice in the back of your mind that tells you you're not good enough, strong enough, pretty enough, worthy enough.
Portia's story takes that voice festering in the shadows of your subconscious, drags it out into the light, and, ultimately, tells it to go to hell.
Too often these things are glamorized or dumbed down for the masses who have never struggled with anything like this or don't know anyone who has, and I think that invites misconceptions.I personally think this is a really important book to read for anyone who has a loved one who they think might be anorexic or bulimic.
A heartbreaking look at mental illness from a fragile mind in an image-obsessed industry.This was a very touching and honest memoir that really showed the struggles de Rossi went through trying to control her weight.It's well written and occasionally I had to put it down to stop myself from crying at her pain.
The behind the scenes mostly focused on the clothing and how it fit her ever-decreasing body, however, not cast politics.If you enjoy celebrity memoirs, or memoirs about people with mental illnesses and eating disorders, or memoirs about struggling sexuality, you'll probably enjoy this.
This was such a great story. It was so inspiring to see someone come back from such a low time, and get her life back together. She is a beautiful woman, and I'm sure her story will help some people who battle this difficult problem.
I was consistently glued to the pages.I didn't know anything about Portia de Rossi (aside from her marriage to Ellen) before picking up this book; for the longest time I hadn't even been aware that she had suffered with an eating disorder for such a long time.This book isn't just about her anorexia however, she also talks about her struggles of coming to terms with her sexuality, accepting herself for who she is and how hard the path to self-love was for her.While there are many areas in which our experiences of life are different, I still found this oddly relatable.
I think everyone struggles with accepting themselves, feeling insecure and unworthy at one time or another for one reason or another.
I didn’t read this because I’m particularly interested in Portia de Rossi or celebrity, but because I’m interested in eating disorders.
It turned out that I was fascinated to learn more about Portia and her career, which began at age 12 as a model, which is where the unhealthy bingeing and purging began.
Reading endlessly about her obsession with calories gets tedious, but I kept going because I wanted to find out how she got to such a happy ending of being physically healthy and in love with such an amazing woman, Ellen.
You should accept your natural body weight by eating healthily and getting exercise, whether it’s walking your dog or going to a yoga class or whatever.
Portia's story is heartbreaking - her terrible relationship with food dates back to when she was 12 and determined to become a model.
Though she has a good relationship with her mother, it reads very much like her mother was instrumental in setting up Portia's terrible food habits in a lot of ways - lots of "okay fine, if you'll stop whinging, I'll show you a great way to drop weight really quickly".
Because we essentially get 300 pages of her having a toxic relationship with food and with her body.
It would break my heart to see the desperation of the woman in getting her daughter to agree to put something in the cart.There is no doubt our whole society has a skewed view on beauty and what constitutes the perfect female form.
To be honest I didn’t expect much when I started this and as I got this on loan I thought what the heck it’s a short audio I may as well try it.
Portia does not shy away from the ugliness of her disease and her honest and articulate way of writing was enjoyable.
Such a very sad book. It was an eye opener for me - interesting to read, but quite disturbing at the same time. I found it to be well written and from the heart.
"Unbearable Lightness" is a memoir by the actress Portia de Rossi, well known for her roles on "Arrested Development" (one of my personal favorites!) and "Ally McBeal." It chronicles her struggle with anorexia and how she finally got help.
While it was hard to read sometimes because the subject matter was so difficult, I appreciated how honest and real this memoir is!Having known a lot of people that have struggled with eating disorders, I think books like this are terribly important.
Having struggled with tendencies like that throughout her life, she quickly spirals out of control.
The book has a slow start but when she really begins to dive into the eating disorder it becomes a tornado of mania that was almost overwhelming to me.
I am not entirely convinced she is completely over her disorder, as 130 pounds is difficult to maintain if you eat like she claims to at the end of the novel.
When I ended the book I felt exhausted; it was about as close as I'll ever be to experience the desperate agony of an eating disorder, and I'm glad I read it.
I really didn't expect to like this book and I ended up loving it.
Unbearable Lightness is de Rossi's story of battling her eating disorder, self-hatred because of her sexuality, all while dealing with her increasing fame.While the book would have benefited from a talented editor (especially in the first half) it is a brutally honest account of her struggles with eating throughout her life.
Portia De Rossi's bio is an amazing story about her battle with anorexia, bulimia and with being gay in Hollywood. She is truly a brave soul for writing this extremely candid bio. While this is not a perfectly written book ( it truly could have used a better editor) I am still giving it 5 stars because it was that good.
Instead, I felt exhausted reading about de Rossi’s regime, despair that people get to the point that she was at, afraid for young girls who get sucked into the body-image vortex… I guess I’m not entirely convinced that de Rossi has slayed her demons, despite the fairy tale ending of her memoir.3.5/5 She’s brave for sharing the horrifying details and the book is well-written but I wanted more heart.
At times funny, at times vividly graphic, at times heartbreakingly sad, Portia de Rossi’s frank and unflinching account of her dual struggle with anorexia and her homosexuality provides a poignant insight into how dangerous the endless pursuit of perfection can be and, ultimately, how enriching self acceptance can be.I was a huge fan of Ally McBeal.
Her repeated reference to a pesky inch of fat that remained is something I’m sure most women can relate to, but the fact that it kept appearing despite her description of weight loss foreshadowed the danger to come.
Portia has said that she did not want to write the book from the perspective of a healthy person writing about their eating disorder in the past tense, instead she dove back into her life as it was and spoke in the insane justifying language that I can only imagine most women with this disorder use.
My only worry in reading it is with so much detail in exactly what, when, and how much Portia ate every day to equal 300 calories and to subsequently reach a deadly 82 pounds, that she has unwittingly given women with eating disorders an exact plan to follow.
I was pulled into Portia's story immediately when I started reading it and I could not put it down.
In denying herself to be honest and open with her true sexuality she denies herself the ability to be healthy.As I am reiterating that I would have liked to read and learn more about Portia's road to recovery, I still give this book a solid 5 stars for her honesty and her powerful depiction of how denying our true identities and the portrait of how self destructive anorexia and bulimia, in this story are so powerfully described.
But thank goodness my life and work never depended on my looks, I never struggled to be accepted, to be admired, to fit in the latest trend of skinny jeans and whatnot.
Again, thank God I'm not one of them.I first read about Portia's story on Octavian's blog, but I wasn't interested, because 1) Portia was always just the skinny blonde from Ally McBeal I was never very interested in and 2) eating disorders, seriously?
I could read other things, thank you very much.
But then one night I caught a rerun of Ellen's show where Portia was invited to promote her book and talked about her struggles with both anorexia and her coming out.
An autobiography of the actress Portia de Rossi whom I mostly know of from watching Ally McBeal on Fridays at boarding school (haha, the common room, all huddled together in pjs and dressing gowns).
Portia seems a little nuts..
mentally obsessive.
Mostly chronicles her obsessive dieting and recovery.
Another thing that seemed a bit nutty about Portia: in one part she said that she slept with someone she wasn't attracted to only because she felt sorry for her having lost her partner.
It's not exactly literature, writing-wise, and I skimmed over a fair bit but I remember it provoked some debate, so that was cool.
