https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/825508.A_Dangerous_Fortune
Quando Os Livros Nos RaptamEsta história agarra-nos logo de início e só nos solta no fim!Que sensação única , sempre que um livro nos rapta!Ken Follet no seu melhor!!! Só mais uma palavra - ADOREI :)
It may also be a bit too familiar to Follett followers as the model of storytelling remains consistent with his typical writing techniques, but it also displays Follett's tremendous ability to set a mood and create an atmosphere that makes almost all his books so hard to put down.
The historical detail makes A Dangerous Fortune quite informative and it made me an instant fan of the 19th century setting.
This book is the perfect combination of historical insight, suspense, and romance all intwined in the 19th century setting making this a book I would recommend to any reader, Follett fan or otherwise.
I love a female villain, and this one is so machiavelic, so devious, so smart and cold..."A Dangerous Fortune," which is one of Follett's earlier books, takes place in the mid-1800's in England.
Reading a Ken Follett book is like turning a cold iron to the "cotton" setting.
And by hot, I mean goooood reading!Ken Follett's books are long and have very multi-layered plots.
The plot twists are unparalleled genius.There's nothing I love more than a book that surprises me, and Follett does that every time.
His "good guys" always get what they deserve, but often not for many years.
Things you can count on in a Follett book:A strong male protagonist who everyone else is determined to make fail.A strong female protagonist who acts in ways women of their time period just do not act, and doesn't give a damn about what others think of her.
Most everyone knows of their secret, and don't care about their preference, but use it against them to manipulate and control their decisions to suit the villains.
In his writing Follett tends to repeat character descriptions that he already described in previous chapters.
All in all I like Ken Follett and have read many of his books.
Dividido em três partes, (3 décadas) vamos acompanhando uma família poderosa de banqueiros, a família Pilaster.
Tudo começa em 1886 quando um rapaz morre afogado numa pedreira e as circunstâncias misteriosas da sua morte nunca são reveladas.
O incidente ocorre numa escola frequentada por rapazes oriundos de classes abastadas onde se inserem Edward, filho de Joseph e Augusta Pilaster, Micky Miranda, seu amigo de juventude, oriundo de Córdova.
e Hugh, primo de Edward, a parte pobre da família.Opinião completa aqui: http://marcadordelivros.blogspot.pt/2...
Follett's definitely got a formula, and here he follows it true to form.
The good people are good and prescient and precocious, the bad people are petty, vindictive, and rotten, and then.....crazy shit happens.It's a formula, but he does it well.However, the characters didn't live up to their WTF potential and the ending - as hilariously bugfuck as it was - couldn't really offset the mehness of Hugh Pilaster and Maisie Robinson.
I wasn't feeling the feelz for these mixed-up, tragic kids like I have for others in Follett's oeuvre.
And the villainess, Augusta Pilaster, really really needed a more tawdry comeuppance than what she got.
Review of the audiobook narrated by Michael Page.This is my fourth book by Ken Follett and I can't help but notice his formula now.
But the formula works well as Follett is a master of intrigue and is great at getting you to identify with all of the characters, good and bad.For those fans of the Kingsbridge series, that town is mentioned and has tertiary characters appear in the plot.
He's great here with the various characters and accents and I will continue to choose books just because he is the narrator.Final verdict: 4 star story, 5 star narration, 4 stars overall

Podia começar aqui a adjectivar este livro, mas quem me conhece sabe que os únicos enredos que me interessam são os das estórias.Ken Follett é de facto um senhor contador de estórias!
Este é um livro fantástico, com personagens excelentes!Não vou opinar sobre a escrita do autor porque o que li foi uma tradução e acho um pouco fantasioso afirmá-lo sem ler originais, mas posso avançar que o texto estava isento de erros.Quanto à estória...
temos um grupo de colegas de colégio que passam por um acontecimento que lhes marca a vida, uns mantém-se unidos outros são obrigados a tomar decisões...
Um livro cheio de altos e baixos mas simplesmente arrebatador!
Wherever the story lacked the bite, the setting more than enough made up for it.The character development is another thing why you love this book.
I especially liked the fact that Follett kept his writing very simple and to the point all the time, nothing so extravagant just to excite the readers and things not related to the story.
Through out the book I was never able to understand their love for each other though I would have to just like everything in the book, it had a good end but I am certainly not up for one-night stands.
It focuses on a bank and the family of the owners of that bank.
The main character Hugh is a model of high ethics and morality but there.
Are plenty of characters in the banking family who are far lesser than he is.
I was fascinated to experience the workings of the banking system in the 19 century and to experience the lives of the upper class and their system of titles.
There was a happy ending for those who deserved it.
And there was retribution for those who deserve that.
Muito bom! Follett não desilude.
Mi-a plăcut mult și acest roman a lui Ken Follett, deși nu s-a ridicat la nivelul "Stâlpii pământului".Povestea este foarte complexă, se întinde pe zeci de ani, cuprinzând mai multe generații.
Romanul are în centru familia Pilaster, o familie bogată de bancheri, pentru care viața a fost extrem de ușoară, până când apare Mickey.
Mi-a plăcut și de Maisie, deși povestea lor de dragoste a fost în umbră.
Fiecare personaj are de făcut propria alegere cu care va trebui să trăiască toată viața.A fost previzibil pe alocuri, însă povestea m-a prins, iar Anglia secolului 19 a fost prezentată extrem de bine.
JahrhundertsDas Buch ist ein geniales Sittenbild der zweiten Hälfte des 19.
Im Kern geht es um die Geschichte des Hugh Pilasters, der das schwarze Schaf der Pilasters - einer der größten Bankiersfamilien - ist.
Sie schrecken auch vor Mord nicht zurück.Da Hugh dem verarmten Zweig der Familie angehört ist er in diesem Intrigenspiel immer mit den schlechteren Karten ausgestattet und scheint immer auf der Verliererstraße zu stehen.
So ereilt ihn ein Rückschlag nach dem anderen, dennoch verliert er nie seine guten Seiten und gibt auch niemals seinen Kampf für "das Gute" auf.
At the beginning I thought it will be criminal book or something like that, I didn’t expect so much drama, romance and malice (all in good way).First, my favorite character was Micky, I love that kind of smart and astute guys who knows how to care to themselves and passion between him and Augusta was really interesting.
Unfortunately Micky showed that he was enormous evil, but at some way I was really sad when Augusta killed him.Hugh is good character, I love that he is so careful to others and he loves Maisie for so long.
Crítica do Refúgio dos Livros aqui:http://refugio-dos-livros.blogspot.pt...
4,5* Empolgante
This book was a tremendous read and one that had me hooked and longing to return to its pages to find out what would happen next.Set in the 19th century, the story spans the decades between the 1860s and 1890s and follows the fortunes of the powerful Pilaster family following the death of a student one summer at a swimming hole near the prestigious Windfield School attended by two Pilaster boys - cousins.
Ken Follett has long been a favorite author of mine.
Not sure how it happened, but 20 years ago I somehow missed this one.
The butler Hastead, for instance - 'his eyes seemed to look in different directions and people were never quite sure which one to concentrate on', and a woman who wore 'a miserable, cheated look' on her face - can you see them clearly?
Follett has a delicious way of turning a phase, making his books a real treat for those of us who enjoy these things.
Ken Follet has added another great book this novel, A Dangerous Fortune.
His has a great nack for creating amazing characters showing many different aspects of human life, like manipulation, greedy, misery, deceiving, murder, political and amorous intrigues, etc., making the book a very entertaining reading.The story takes place in the late 1800’s and starts with a tragic drowning of a student in an exclusive school named Windfield.
Not on the same level as Pillars of the Earth, World Without End and The Fall of Giants but a great read with amazing characters.
I ended up going out and buying another Ken Follett book right after finished Dangerous Fortune.
Ken Follett sure knows how to tell a story, and he oozes character development skill.
I got to know every character in the title well, for better or for worse.
I was transported, and happy to be there.The backbone of the book revolves around the banking profession, and while this holds zero interest for me, this didn't matter either.
Plus, I respect an author that isn't afraid to (view spoiler)[ kill off characters to better develop the plot.
This normally would have detracted from its rating, but I figure if I want to read a book enough that I can get through a 568 pager in 5 days, that can counteract the extra drama.
The transitions from year to year are seamless and kept me listening so as to discover more about the story and the characters.What I also loved about this book was Follett’s ability to create a historical era.
I would recommend this book to anyone who has read and enjoyed Pillars of the Earth and/or World Without End. You will find the same story-telling and historical atmosphere in a modified format - World Without End and Pillars of the Earth are about three times as long as ,A Dangerous Fortune.
OMG!! I enjoyed this book. Although, the story was in the late 1800's, it had a modern flare to it. Ken gave us sooo much drama to work with from homosexuality, adultery, promiscuity, etc. I was intrigued from beginning to end. My first Follett book, but it won't be my last.
Empieza un poco lento, pero avanzadas algunas páginas mejora y mantiene tu atención, lo acabe en una semana! Es más una novela histórica que un gran drama, la historia es buena pero algo predecible. Pero los detalles históricos y la narración te envuelven y hacen volar la imaginación sobre Londres antiguo y la sociedad del siglo 19. Si te gusta Downton Abbey es una lectura obligada.
Buena y entretenida trama. Hace mucho no leía a Follet, más creo recordar que sus personajes malos son malos y los buenos, buenos y hay algunos de ambos en esta novela...sin medias tintas. Si te gusta el autor, recomiendo esta historia.
4,5 estrelas. O livro tem tudo o que o Ken Follet já nos habituou. Personagens fortes, ação é um enredo que nos agarra da primeira à última página. Mas não está ao nível da sua última trilogia.
Uma descrição soberba do mundo financeiro e de como a política e a troca de favores influenciam o sector bancário.Mais um livro deste autor que recomendo.
3,5 *
I know that all tastes in books is subjective and what one person may like might not necessarily appeal to another but I really cannot stress how utterly terrible I found this book.Imagine Zola's La Curee mixed with a touch of Mary Poppins and just enough Eyeless in Gaza to make one think that this might be a halfway decent read, rewritten by Jeffery Archer as a TV mini series for a minor digital channel and you are 10% of the way to understanding just how awful this novel is.There is no character development, no plot development, repetitious phrasing and a stunning lack of originality.
