https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6062719-farewell-to-the-master
Granted, we have a man-like thing and a huge robot coming to Earth and stepping out of some sort of ship.
But that is where the similarities end.You see, in the movie (at least the one from 2008 that I saw) Klaatu's body is the copy of a human from 1928 that gets shot but doesn't die.
Supposedly, Gnut hasn't moved since Klaatu died but a free-lance reporter sneaks in after hours and finds out that the robot moves every night and that strange things are going on.
I know, strange word or a short story but that is what it felt like to me.
not the same story as what Harry Bates actually wrote.I was shocked while listening to this - and not because of the toilet soap and other stuff they tried selling me.In this version, two aliens come to Earth.
He has some encounters with a boy and his mother, (view spoiler)[gets shot and dies (hide spoiler)] as is the same in all versions of this story, and then gives Earth its only warning.The production scale is quite astonishing.
Or maybe not, if one considers that there was no TV back in the day so families gathered around the radio to listen to such productions.However, I never like or condone when a story is twisted too much for whatever reason.
I liked the original story much, much better than the hollywood productions.
That includes the radio drama, or EITHER of the movies.What can I say?
I like the originals.
Sparse little stories that house big ideas that capture so many imaginations later until they're driven deep in the ground only to sprout up as little jokey comments or tropes EVERYONE KNOWS.But, me?
I like to see where it starts.
I wanted to know where The Day The Earth Stood Still came from.And I thought it was pretty okay.
Quite focused.That being said, it's never going to be my favorite story of any time.
ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature.Farewell to the Master is the short story that forms the premise of the popular 1951 (remade in 2008) science fiction movie The Day the Earth Stood Still, in which an alien and his robot visit Earth to warn humans that their atomic weapons and violent tendencies will not be tolerated by the rest of the galaxy.
Just make sure you’re purchasing the one narrated by Tom Weiner and produced by Blackstone Audio.
The interest in reading this story because it spawned one of the greatest sci fi movies of all time (and no I don't mean the Keanu Reeves one)is probably much higher than the success of the story itself. It suffers from being a view of the future from the past and some of the predictions have gone in different directions or produced technology that would have made for a different story.That said, it's not too long to strain patience and like all good shorter stories the final line has the sting in the tail.
This is the novelette that inspired the brilliant film The Day the Earth Stood Still, and it's solid vintage science fiction that stands up to time. Very much worth reading.
No doubt anyone looking at this book knows that this story by Harry Bates is the inspiration for the classic movie, “The Day the Earth Stood Still.” Dennis Herrick published the story here, in reprint, as a labor of love.
The movie runs in the present tense, with Klaatu arriving, the unfortunate attack on him, his escape, and his return to deliver his message, all under the protection of the robot Gort.The story is very different.
The robot Gnut (renamed for the movie) stands watch over Klaatu’s ship, housed in a museum that has been built around it.
Mainly though, it’s worth reading out of curiosity — just to see what inspired the classic movie.
For those who are fans of the 1951 film, starring Micheal Rennie and Patricia Neal (or even its 2008 remake), you may be surprised that its main focus is not Klaatu, but his silent counterpart Gort (called Gnut in the story).
Gnut becomes inert after Kaatu is killed by a religious maniac, but Sutherland after comparing some photographs he took of the robot discovers that it is in a slightly different position.
Still for all this, the main character stalks the inert robot Gnut with an infrared camera (state of the art when it was written), rather than a recording on his cell phone.

Quote: "I know," he said feebly, "I know. We have so much to ask each other. About your civilization... and Gnut's."."And yours," said Cliff."And Gnut's," said the gentle voice again. "Perhaps... someday... perhaps I will be back."
9 out of 10
The first half was amazing. I was on the edge of my seat wanting to know what was going to happen next. Unfortunately the second half was a little bit of a let down but still worth reading.
It does exactly what the classic science fiction genre tries to do, with the same characteristic flaws of the genre - that is, unadorned prose, two-dimensional characters, and naive view of society - but coupled with the strengths, which is the showcase of an idea.
Yet I still consider myself a fan of science fiction - even classic science fiction in which this approach is most common - because sometimes, I come across a story like Farewell to the Master, and I become glad that there are no superfluous details to detract my attention from the idea - the thought experiment - at hand.
Awesome. Love the end. The movie adaptions "The Day the Earth Stood Still"? are close to the plot but not exactly. The ending is very Twilight Zone style :)

Woo, that ending was intense!
I'm still not too sure what it meant...I had to read this for one of my classes, and I believe this was a good choice to start the course of with!This short story follows Cliff, a young photographer, and the two aliens who land in Washington, D.C. Throughout the story, suspense is built around Gnut's eery eyes, and the proposed movement of his limbs.
While this wasn't written beautifully by any means, I did like it, and since it was the first of its kinda that I've read, I believe it will stick with me.
An entertaining novelette from 1940. The introduction points out that the two movies "based" on this short work were very different from the original here. I admit that I'm now curious about seeing the movies to see how the are embellished. I can actually imagine, since I've seen my share of older SF movies!This edition contains an appendix entitled "A compendium of several first-contact invasion books." Even though I disagreed with a few (whether they fit his criteria or not), it was fun to realize that I've read quite a few of the listed works over the years!
This story is the basis for one of my favourite movies, The Day the Earth Stood Still, and while it's a LOT different, it's very very good. I think of it in the same way that I compare Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep and BladeRunner; both claim to be from the same source, but they're completely different and are best thought of as independent works. So it's worth a read whether or not you ever saw the film.
This is a short story, and it's now available only as an ebook. I don't care for science fiction as a rule, but I really enjoyed this one. I've seen the movie based on it, The Day the Earth Stood Still, and I was told the story had a twist. It certainly did, and I never saw it coming. The film is a classic, but I wonder how it would have fared if it had been closer to Bates' story. Well worth the .99 I paid.
This book barely made it to three stars with me and did only because of the classic status the book has. I read this once I found out it was the (very loose I would say) basis for the Day the Earth Stood Still. It barely resembles that classic movie and, in this instance, I would have to say the movie was better than the book. It is rare that I say this but in this case it is true in my opinion (and only the classic movie, not the remake with Keanu Reeves thank you).
Klaatu Barada Nikto! In 1940 Harry Bates wrote this Science Fiction short story about a God-like visitor from another planet and his companion, an 8 foot robot. The story, although it provided the basis for the 1951 film classic "The Day the Earth Stood Still" and the 2008 remake, is very different with a surprise ending. Definitely a must read for Sci-Fi enthusiasts.By the way, the above alien language caption is found nowhere in the book.
Great story if you keep in mind that it was written in 1940. I was intrigued to read it because of the 1951 movie it inspired however, after reading it, I realized the movie went into a completely different direction. So I suggest an open mind and not to expect the same story as the movie. I thought the story's ending was a bit more shocking than the movie's moral-lesson ending.
Having seen both versions of the movie "The Day the Earth Stood Still", I was very interested to read the story which inspired the movies. To be honest, the story puts the movies to shame. I've noticed that it has also been published in a book of stories which have been made into major motion pictures, but I didn't read it there. I read it on the internet at the url mentioned with the book.
The story that one of my favorite films, The Day the Earth Stood Still, is based on. The movie's better and much different from the story, but it's definitely worth a read, just to see the origin. It's a decent, page-turning read, but the ending doesn't make a lot of sense, and the tale doesn't really hold up to much analysis.Read the story, but then watch the movie!
This classic sci-fi story is the tale of and alien robot that is left to guard a ship that landed on earth after his master is killed. This is the original story that the old sci-fi movie The Day The Earth Stood Still. I enjoyed the 50's feel of this story as well as the divergence from the movie plot. If you enjoy truly Classic sci-fi, you'll probably like this story.
The story that inspired a sci-fi classic, and a less classic remake. We at the Take Me To Your Reader reviewed the book and films: listen in here!
I've always been a fan of the 1951 film of The Day The Earth Stood Still & it was a pleasure to read this story on which it was based. There are quite a few differences between the film & the story, but both are equally entertaining.
A nice story that inspired and birthed a great film.Overall, a good book for the researcher and enthusiast.Read for personal research- found this book's contents helpful and inspiring - number rating relates to the book's contribution to my needs.
This is the short story upon which "The Day the Earth Stood Still" is based; it is not as excellent as the 1951 version, but it is better than the remake. The "twist" at the end is not surprising, but the story is OK.
My disappointment is that the short story is so much different than the movie they made from it. A good story on it's own.
