https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26843537-p-c-richardson-s-first-case
A visit to another era, the very early police procedural wherein the author shows he knows his Latin.
The kindle book is reasonably priced, but I may not read further in the series featuring constable Richardson who earns his way into CID with his work on this case.
Richardson is told: "The beginning and the end of C.I.D. work is the collection of evidence that will be water-tight in a court of law.
I sped through this today. It was very enjoyable. It was interesting to read the forward which described Thomson's time at Scotland Yard and as a prison administrator. Interesting person and he brought his real life experience to his novel writing. I'll be reading more of the series....very fun!
Easy to digest police procedural focusing (sometimes just barely) on PC Richardson's first murder case. Strong emphasis on the procedural part, which I discover a reason for reading the author description - Thomson is a former Scotland Yard man.
I quite enjoyed this book. It is somewhat different and refreshing in that it focuses on the crime and solving the crime. I find some books go so heavy on the personal lives of the investigators, the mystery ends up being a back story. The writing is good and it is a quick light read and you can take the evidence presented, along with the interactions and start to piece things together along with the investigators. I will be reading more from this series.
In search of a detective as affable as Philip Trent, I found P.C. Richardson, whose innate detection skills move him swiftly through the ranks from a street officer on winter patrol in London to a plain clothes officer in the Criminal Investigation Department. Looking forward to other books in this series.

as other reviewers have said this novel is an early (1930's) police procedural mystery.it is well wr
I picked this up for 99p from Amazon after seeing one of the later books in the series being promoted on Twitter.
Regular readers of my reviews will know that I love Golden Age crime stories and am often looking for new options and forgotten authors to read.
And this was a good buy.
The story is intriguing - an estranged couple murdered on the same day and the inheritance of the husband's property turning on who died first - and the characters are good too.
If the others in this series are still 99p, I'll be trying some more of them!
Another crime story from a classic (Golden Age) British author. Instead of a private detective that's a genius who leaves the police behind, this is a book written by a former British intelligence officer, head of C.I.D. at Scotland Yard. With this background it doesn't surprise us that the investigation is led by policemen and follows a step-by-step method that seems more real to us. Nice to see a change in pattern.
This is a fine read, especially since none of the cops are suffering from any of the usual trauma eg broken marriages, drug-addiction or psychological damage as seems to be the norm in procedurals. They're just hard working and clever. The spice here is courtesy of the secondary characters who carry quite a bit of the story line - and do it well.
Trying to find a series as interesting and well written as George Bellairs' wonderful series on Thomas Littlejohn of Scotland Yard in the 40s and 50s. Inspector Riharedson was quite interesting but doesn't match Bellairs wonderfully descriptive writing and get-to-the-point narrative. However, I'm pretty sure I will give him another chance as long as the price stays decent.
The plot was a bit thin but I enjoyed the detail of the police investigation. Will persevere with the series to see if the plots improve over time.
The writing is fairly old-fashioned but it moves on at a cracking pace, there is no wasting words on the flaws of detectives, their lonely home lives, the secrets in their past or the dangers to their own beings that the investigations may lead to.
For that one has to be grateful.
A money lender is knocked down and killed in a street accident.
His last word as he rushed across the road implied he was going to fetch a policeman.
But who was he shouting at and why was his estranged wife later found dead in his shop?
An interesting book from the golden age of crime writing.
Another of the recently re-released detective fiction written in the 1930s.
This one includes the praise by Dorothy Sayers for the original publication.
It's strength, as she points out, is the detailed knowledge of police procedure, based on the author's time at Scotland Yard.
It is also the book's weakness.
It is, at times, over-burdened with detail.
The enticing element is the establishment of Richardson, the young PC who wants to be a detective.
This is an interesting book in the development of the genre and I will read at least a couple more to see how Richardson - and the author's style - develops.
Sir Basil Thomson was, among other things, head of Scotland Yard's Criminal Investigation Division for eight years.
So I was prepared to find that he couldn't write worth a damn, and surprised to learn that he could turn out a smooth police procedural.
This is the first book in which he follows Richardson's career up the ladder to higher office.
Although Richardson is a humble police constable, he keeps alert, and is allowed to help investigate the mysterious murder of an antique dealer's estranged wife, at almost the same time as her husband is killed in a traffic accident right in front of Richardson.
A nice challenging locked-door puzzle that puts the emphasis on the very ordinary work of collecting information and establishing evidence to build a "water tight case" to take to the prosecutor. While I love the great detective fiction of the early to mid-20th century, the climax of the story often involves arranging for a surprise piece of evidence that forces a confession. I picture the prosecutor having to attempt to prosecute based on a now-recanted confession and a lot of evidence without a reliable chain of custody.
Most enjoyable. Clearly written and not showing too many signs of age for a novel first published in 1933. Perhaps a little worthy and lacking tension and excitement.As in many from this era, the emphasis is on gathering enough solid evidence to convince the DPP that a prosecution is viable.It reflects the reality of routine police work with which the author would have been familiar and is none the worse for that.Richardson plays a small, but ultimately crucial, part in nailing down the perpetrator.3.5 stars
A nice, refreshing entry from the Golden Age of British Mysteries  Very nicely written novel with solid dialogue and a look into police procedure far ahead of its time. The plot is decent but not terribly suspenseful. The charm of this book lies more in its characters and the depiction of how a team of police went about investigating a murder in London in the 1930. Recommended warmly!
A mild mystery, the writing is crisp and entertaining enough but the content is very slight. PC Richardson (soon to be Inspector) has only limited activity and next to no personality. Even by the third book he hasn't gained much. This is a nice light read for those who like period work, but it isn't memorable.
A fairly good British mystery featuring detectives from Scotland Yard in the early part of the 20th century. However, the story suffers from and abundance of characters that I found hard to keep straight, with most of them lacking personalities. It was a bit like a turn of the century police procedural.
good hunting, too easy a solutionThe main two officers are smart and do some great detecting. but in the end it is a confession easily given. I have read that guilty parties do often just blurt it out, but...
I enjoyed this book. It was written in the 1930's. The author had an interesting life. One of the many jobs he had actually was at Scotland Yard, an assistant commissioner. It is the story of the search for a murderer. Nothing more.
This is a thorough-going police procedural written from within the echelons of Scotland Yard, with a very sound plot but rather thin characterisation for the most part. I enjoyed it enough to buy another in the series: it does have a certain period charm.
First of what promises to be another delightful golden age mystery series.
Richardsons first caseHave just finish this book and I could not put it down great read can not wait to start the next one
Not a bad beginning to the series, even though Richardson is not the main focus. I must admit I was hoping for the book to end as it did. Some characters just beg to be guilty.
For my full review click on the link below:https://crossexaminingcrime.wordpress...
Good stuffLove a bit of a murder mystery and this was fab. Buy if you like good old detective stories. .
Delightful - and engrossing
