https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/123658.777_and_Other_Qabalistic_Writings_of_Aleister_Crowley
This is a true classic, a definitive reference volume, the correspondence tables are comprehensive and it's also fascinating - Crowley could make even a dry reference book an interesting read.
But he could also be a racist bigot, and apparently even he didn't see the stupidity in making anti-Jewish remarks (or anti-Black, as he sometimes did) while promoting a religion grounded in Jewish mysticism and northern African deities.
DO read Crowley.
That Regardie continued to promote his work in spite of the bigoted comments speaks for the quality of the writing.
I don't speak much German, and only have the English-language version, 777 and Other Qabalistic Writings of Aleister Crowley Including Gematria and Sepher Sephiroth, edited and with an introduction by Israel Regardie, which is what I'm reviewing here.At any rate, I have found this work to be one of the most useful resources on esoteric subjects I have ever run across.
In addition, Israel Regardie's introduction provides fascinating insights on Qaballah as well as a discussion of the history of this work and of Crowlety himself.In Book 1 of this work, Crowley discusses the definition of Qaballah: a set of distinct numbers in bijective correspondence with a set of distinct alphanumeric symbols.
Reference book. Haven't read front to back -- The section on Gematria is a very interesting series of essays on Kaballah. 777 and the Sepher Sephiroth are somewhat interesting to peruse.
This is a good book, however, even Crowley knew it was incomplete and wrote that he hoped to expand it one day or that someone else would do so, which he never got around to doing.
However, that better, clearer and more expanded book is Stephen Skinner’s The Complete Magician’s Tables.
Still, this is a good substitute and the essays that have been added may be interesting for some to read.
Interesting in most cases, even entertaining, but often empty at their core.
In 2008, I purchased the mysterious Etteilla Thoth Tarot deck at my neighborhood voodoo store.
I could find no literature on the deck and the 777 was the only book which has allowed me to penetrate its Egyptian mythos.
The 777 has been especially helpful for numerological work, something not covered by pictoral Tarot guides.
I wouldn't approach all of the correspondences uncritically--Dion Fortune disagrees with a few.
I also am not certain whether the correspondences to Eastern mysticism are not largely based on Crowley's personal conjecture.
Qabala reference book interspersed with nuggets of wisdom, analysis and explanatory information. Most useful for those well versed in Qabalistic practices. Not for the beginner.
The 1-5 Star Review is the total of what I have to say about this book, specifically.Caveat: This review is historical/archival in nature. 'Date read' is speculative.This book is one of many books I have read about the occult/paganism/witchcraft. This was the readily available faith in my household as a child. Additionally, I worked for a company in this field, 2015-2016, and had to read an ocean of this stuff to do my job.
"The freakin' holy grain of Western Esoteric Kabbalah" should basically sum it up. Just a few of us have found this to be a very useful reference book, to put it mildly ;)
The gold standard! Recently noticed I had misplaced my copy and managed to get another one. I think I've probably gone through 3 or 4 copies since my first from around when I was 15.
It isn't exactly a work by Aleister Crowley alone, however; this has been curated and arranged at another level by another and more.
Lots of tables, many curated several times over a few thousand years, so it is difficult to tell what is real or not, thought it may be a matter of precision that will matter to very few.
This could be very useful if one were creating a work of fiction - characters and plots pour out of these pages.
Lots to know.Categorize it as Reference Material and keep it close.
The reference book to end them all.
Since this book came out, there have been countless authors writing similar ones in the hopes of achieving a bit of what this one has accomplished.
The difference is that it wasn't meant to end there, yet there are authors making their own washed-down versions without half of the organization and explanations this one has (for example, Eileen Holland's Grimoire of Magical Correspondences), and not bringing anyting new to the table.
If you want just one book to begin your research, whether for witchcraft or ceremonial magick, this one is the one for you.
This is an older one that had many years ago and let go for some reason.
Only recently have I reacquired it through the magic of my lovely girlfriend.
Thank you punkin.
I can still remember this book by aleister when I flip through it thinking I had forgotten it over the years.
I was wrong.
This is a book that will stick with you for years to come, atleast inside your mind it will.
Crowley truly had his finger tapped on the vein and had a way of enlightening the reader.
Pick this one and don't let go of it.
A collection of papers written by Aleistar Crowley to be used more or less as reference points, whether during practice, or writing scripture.The Liber 777 being the most useful of the papers in my opinion. The zig-zagging pattern of a lightning bolt suggests three diminishing 7s, hence the title. The paper itself contains nearly 200 columns with each one being a reference point for a unique Sephirah, or even different paths on the Tree of Life.Without any prior knowledge of Crowley's writings however, or any knowledge of the occult (including Gnosticism) these papers are essentially useless.
If you actuall have time and patience to play with the data tables in this book, then its worth buying, and can lead to endless amounts of fun and mystery. the narrative parts, as usual with crowley, are sanctimonious, self-egrandizing, baseless, and nonsensical. interestingly, rumor has it that the 'tables of corresponences' were actually not written by crowley, but rather were notes stolen from other members of his various orders.
777 is primarily a book of correspondences for the 32 paths of the Qabalistic Tree of Life. It is also of great help with gematria, the numerical correspondences of letters and numbers. If it's theory, or ritual, you are looking for, there are much better books. However, if you are working with the Tree practically, or are about to be, 777 is quite a handy tool.You can find 777 in an online PDF Here
This book will be on my now reading list for quite some time. It is a reference manual to the correspondence of All to All. As a mentor once told me (roughly,) a pilot reads manuals in the course of learning to fly, but once he can fly, not only does he not need the manuals, he recognizes that they bear no resemblance to the art and act of flying.
The reinventing of the wheel by Crowley. There's more in one line of this book than a collection of philosophical treatises. A Must have, even in the miniaturized god era. Information found here is invaluable.
The best way to learn about the structure of the tarot as a magical and mystical system as practiced by The Golden Dawn is by studying Liber 777.Apart from Aleister Crowley, other adepts such as A.E. Waite used the book without acknowledgement in their own tarot decks.
"This was one of the first serious Occult books I had ever read and I felt my head cramping from tall the data overload.What I didn't realize was this book at that time was to be a very good starting point in my path."
strange and amazing. will help you concoct an amulet or sigil or magic weapon.
This is a good book, though the reader must be grounded in kabalistic philosophy prior to reading this and as well as certain other works by Crowley himself.
A great resource for anyone interested in the occult
An essential reference. One must have it if one is interested in the occult. Although not 100% reliable, the best document on correspondences out there.
gawd crowley is so fucking theatrical but i guess that show-boatey-ness is what got him where it did. either way his stuff is fun to read, as long as you don't take him too seriously.
Excellent book for correspondences.
Lots of charts and schedules comparing different religions, explaining gemetria - numerology, myths, tarot, hebrew. Lots of homework to understand. Most comprehensive on relating mysticisms.
Although many of the tables have been revised in Liber ABA this book is still a must for any student of the occult arts, especially the QBLH and gematria.
Pretty much an essential book no matter what. The third section "Sepher Sephiroth" is the one section that I continually come back to use all the time.
no question about it -- crowley did his homework and here are the fruits of his labor.
This book has been one of the most helpful tools for my 'studies'; + there are hidden 'secrets' & it shows you where to 'look' if you 'watch(er)'! ;)
