https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25176.The_Man_With_a_Load_of_Mischief
Look, I am not going to apologize for loving Martha Grimes, especially the Richard Jury novels.
I urge you not to do the math.The charm in these novels is the characters, the more tangential to the actual mystery the better.
They aren't real people, just as Dickens' casts of characters are a bit over the top, but they're entertaining and it's possible to overlook the fact that Grimes' stories can become somewhat formulaic, especially because in her mystery victims, suspects, witnesses, etc.
4.5 stars- Oh my why has this series escaped me until now? A truly engaging and tantalizing British mystery, especially since it has an American author, includes even a grainy sketched map! Inspector Jury is an introspective and intelligent detective and I so look forward to the next book, assuming Melrose Plant will complement his detections! They are a delightful pair in this delicious sundae of a mystery, the antagonizing relationship between Melrose and his Aunt Agatha is the whipped cream and the sweet children, the Doubles (James and his sister James) are the little cherry on top!
It's hard to believe I've never read a Richard Jury mystery.
But, this is my first, but won't be my last.
I loved it.
This the first book in the series.
Jury is with Scotland Yard.
Jury makes friends with Melrose Plant, who is a big help in the investigation.
I presume Plant will work with Jury again someday.Grimes sets up a great, keeps you guessing, who done it.
The author has a great sense of humor as well.
I loved the banter between Plant.
Martha Grimes is American, but writes British mysteries right up there with the heavy hitters.A+
This was Grimes's first in the Jury series and she went on from strength to strength which, given how much time she must have spent in the pubs for which each book is named, is almost miraculous!
In as sense, Grimes mysteries are character studies, and what a cast of regular characters she creates, from thoughtful and handsome Inspector Richard Jury and his hypochondriac sidekick, Sergeant Wiggins, to the rest of the denizens of the village of Long Piddleton (the name alone is a clue) and it's resident toff, Melrose Plant who has relinquished his title as Lord Ardry.
The full range of the quirky characters who hang out at the title pub is too long to mention and indeed they grow as the series continues from this auspicious start.
We meet, to our delight, Melrose Plant, his obnoxious aunt, Lady Ardry, and Jury himself, who is not your ordinary Scotland Yard detective.[return][return]Alas, Long Piddleton, which could very well pose as the quintessential English village in the snow, is host to a double murder on the eve of Christmas.
The local constabulary calls in Scotland Yard, and Chief Superintendent Racer, with malice aforethought, sends Jury and Wiggens off to Northants to investigate.
Jury is off-beat enough, but not unique, whereas Plant is a oner.
By the end of this novel, the construction of Martha Grimes' characters pays off.There were hilarious quips I re-read to titter over anew.
When Melrose organizes a theatre scene to show how the pinnacle of crimes started, his Aunt Agatha gripes over her short role and I could hear Melrose retorting: "We aren't trying for the Royal Shakespeare Company!
It is the only quip that surpassed his and his butler's explosion over Agatha's mispronounced names.
The story is original: three strangers in different pubs.
There are gratifying clues to explore.With countless series at home I can't guarantee liking, I am making rounds with first novels, to lift that mystery for myself.
I call Martha a success.
But, then again, those clues would have been far more familiar to a reader of that time anyway.Secondly, the author describes all the suspects and secondary characters in fine detail but fails to provide us with much of anything in the way of a physical description for our two protagonists.
The intimations are presented just often enough to make the reader believe that more will be revealed as the series needs it to be revealed.And fourthly – and most importantly – the author provides our story in the form of dual first person POV’s, those of our two main protagonists, Jury and Plant.
The Man With a Load of Mischief by Martha Grimes is the first book in the Inspector Richard Jury mystery series.
I was glad to finally read the first book, especially glad as it introduced the core of characters who appear in many of the other books in the series (at least those that I've read)Chief Inspector Jury of Scotland Yard has been assigned to a case in the town of Long Piddleton, where two murders are being investigated.
Having read some of the other books previously, but still many years ago, it was nice to meet those characters who appear in future books and often assist Jury with his investigations.
But time to break new ground and meet some new characters.One would think that a book featuring a New Scotland Yard detective inspector as its main character would be a police procedural type, but this, I think, falls more in the "cozy" category.
While Inspector Jury may be the main character, the story is set in a small village and there are various eccentric villagers who "assist the police in their inquiries," and we see much of the story through their eyes.The village is Long Piddleton - Long Pidd to the locals.
There are twenty-three Inspector Richard Jury books in total and I expect to continue reading my way through them in coming months and years.
I believe at least three books came out after those two - but I decided at long last to go all the way back to the first book in the series if I could find it.
I am glad I did!I love Martha Grimes' writing style.
She presents characters that are undeniably "British" but without making them mere cariactures.
One might expect all of these in a mystery taking place in the English countryside.
But each character is unique and in many ways not stereotypical.
I enjoyed the story telling, loved the character development, and found the mystery itself to be quite satisfying.
He's sent to a small village with clever pub signs to solve murders that keep growing in number until he solves them.
He's added by an eccentric and brilliant self-renounced lord Melrose Plant who is plagued by his insufferable aunt who meddles and creates more than a small amount of annoyance to the characters and the reader.
You just want to push her over into a ditch before you've even got a third of the way through the book!
It's small town life at its murderous best.The book is quite enjoyably written with a little bit of trivia thrown it for entertainment.
There was a lot to follow at the beginning, and I think I was afraid it was going to be full of descriptions of characters I didn't know if I should be caring about or not.
I don't know if he found his groove or if I just got use to him, but it all came together rather well by that point!Martha Grimes is now one of my new favorites and I'm so excited to have a new series to follow.
Also, I loved the mystery being solved about an hour before the book was over, which left time to explain things and follow up with some of the main characters.
A Christmas themed murder mystery.(This is as "merry" as I get!)
I've heard of Martha Grimes for ages and finally decided to give her a try. I was not disappointed. She had created a smart, somewhat sarcastic, Inspector I am goiyto enjoy following. There were a number of red herrings and unlikeable characters but Jury's sergeant grew into his role and he developed an intriguing relationship/friendship with a local aristocrat that is promising for good detection.
Das war ein wirklich unterhaltsamer Krimi, der nicht zu blutrünstig war, mich aber trotzdem ständig in Spannung versetzt hat, weil es um eine ganze Mordserie geht. Leider kannte ich die Verfilmung dieses Falls (unter dem Titel "Mord im Pub") schon, wusste das aber nicht, als ich zu lesen begonnen habe. Die Eckpunkte der Handlung waren mir also bekannt, trotzdem war es kein enttäuschendes Leseerlebnis, da Sprache und Details wirklich interessant waren. Ich habe definitiv vor, diese Serie weiterzulesen.
His reading is fantastic!The name "Fiona Clingmore" made me chuckle.
Here is a funny description of her - Fiona Clingmore entered and getting her priorities straight, smiled warmly at Jury before handing over the manila folder to Racer.
She was wearing one of those 1940 outfits she seemed to like: black, high-heeled shoes with a button strap across the instep, tight black skirt, black nylon blouse with long, full sleeves which always made her look en negligee.
Fiona always seemed to wear her clothes at half-mast; perhaps she was mourning chastity thought Jury.I am loving the cheekiness - "Melrose!" It was his aunt's voice from the saloon bar.
The first in the Richard Jury mystery series, beloved by my niece and her Mom. And I see why!
The story just happens to take place over Christmas - a coincidence, but given the time of year it added to the enjoyment.These, like a few other series I read, are of the lighter, more genteel sort, which provide nice break from the more grim/gruesome mysteries that are so prevalent these days.
I'm assuming this is designed to set up the series and hope the detailed descriptions will diminish with time.
I understand that most of the cast are recurring throughout the series which I am excited to read.
I was thoroughly enjoying the character of Richard Jury and thinking this would be a book (and series) I could really get into do despite the sometimes overwrought use of figurative language.
(Seriously, the similes in this are way over the top.) BUT THEN....There is insta-love.
The hero takes one look at a girl and decides he is madly in love with her.
Never mind that she can actually be considered a suspect.
Never mind that she is known to be close to two other people who are also suspects.
No. He is in love.
My liking for his character dwindled fast.
I had never heard of Martha Grimes, but a friend gave me a whole box of paperbacks, and I found this book in the pile.British humor, but very clever and easy to get the subtleties. I'm planning on reading more of her books.
The Man With A Load of Mischief by Martha GrimesRichard Jury Series Book #14 StarsFrom The Book:At the Man with a Load of Mischief, they found the dead body stuck in a keg of beer.
A keen observer of human nature, he points Jury in the right direction: into the darkest parts of his neighbors’ hearts.My Views:Not a bad book at all but the author sure loves the adjective.
The Inspector Richard Jury character could stand to be fleshed out more but since this is the first book of 23 currently written...this may have already happened.
I began reading these mystery novels centered around English pubs in the early 1980s.
This is the first Richard Jury, published in 1981, so I decided to spend some time reading this one again to see how it stands up for me after such a long time.
Martha Grimes gave me so much information regarding the historical meanings of pub signs.
I love learning the origins of things such as the pub signs and seeing how they have been changed through history so that their original meaning is almost gone.
Included with the digital copy of this book is an excerpt from Vertigo 42, another Richard Jury novel which was released in 2014.
In my humble opinion, Martha Grimes is right up there with Dame Agatha Christie and Conan Doyle as one of the greatest of British mystery writers.
I'd read some of her books long ago, and recently ran across one, and decided to read them all from the first to the last.
The book titles are all names of British pubs.
More help comes in from the delightful, ever charming and witty Melrose Plant.
Martha Grimes is a master of plot, characters and witty dialogue, and you have to really pay attention to guess (if you can) who done it.
I read this series when it first came out, and for a while a new Grimes in paperback was an automatic buy for me.
Then Jury go so depressed and wrapped up in himself I stopped reading them.
The book opens with Melrose Plant, who becomes an important recurring character in the series.
Plant reminds me of Peter Whimsey - a very intelligent Lord who collects expensive books, has eccentric relatives and gets involved in murder.
(Plant has given up his title, though.)I didn't enjoy this book nearly as much as when it first came out.
A typical English murder mystery.
All the ingredients were there: a detective with a sad love interest in his past, his sidekick with his weird idiosyncrasies, the irritating bossy old lady, the very clever noble man and last but not least the difficult superior who in the end takes credit for solving the murders.
Somewhat cliché, but that happens to be what I like about reading a cosy mystery.
I loved Jury's interaction with the locals, especially with the children and the descriptions of the outside and the snow falling down.
The end really didn't surprise me at all but somehow I didn't mind all that much.
Rated 3.5 stars
Re-read for a book club. Satisfying formulaic detective story with lots of quirky characters.
This one starts a little slow because there are so many characters to introduce, but the pace picks up and becomes exciting and suspenseful. The characters are all interesting and the plot is well-written.
There was no way of knowing what year this book was taking place and I found that very annoying.
I hate it when a book doesn't give me a clear sense of when it is taking place.
The village felt cozy, and I could visualize main street, the parks, the pubs....however, my mental picture would have been clearer if only I had known what year it was meant to be....I can't say that I particularly liked Richard Jury.
I admit I was surprised by the number of murders squeezed in to a book this size; not in a bad way, just more than the normal for many cozy mysteries.
The first in the Richard Jury series.
It's just before Christmas and two pubs in a small English village have each found a dead body--which I assume is not good for business..
Detective Chief Inspector Richard Jury travels to the picturesque village of Long Piddleton and meets the most intriging group of residents.
Really--I want to spend long hours in the pub with many of them because I think that I would fit right in.
While the word on the street in Long Piddleton is that an outsider sneaked into the village and went on a killing spree, Melrose Plant, my favorite villager and Jury's new best friend, believes that the killer might live closer to home.
I read a Martha Grimes mystery years ago and loved it.
She's an American, but Grimes writes an excellent classic British mystery.
This is the first in the series of Richard Jury mysteries.
Long Piddleton, the town in question, will continue to be a player in all future books.I won't get into details of plot; suffice to say that the Jury mysteries rank right up there with P.D. James and Agatha Christie.
Why are all these fabulous mystery writers women???
