https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6796621---1-ponniyin-selvan---the-first-floo
What is your goal?” Well, I had to come up with something, so I said, “I want to read Ponniyin Selvan.” I have still not read it in Tamil (and I may never get there!) but thanks to the efforts of C.V. Karthik Narayan I have been able to read this in English.
For my non-Tamil GR friends, Ponniyin Selvan is Tamil historical epic much loved by the Tamils.
The work is a prequel to the reign of a man lauded today as one of the greatest kings of the Chozha* empire, Rajaraja Chozha.
What a book!Epic.Excellent historical fiction about the beginning of Chola Empire.Very descriptive in simple English and a nearly good translation.I think everyone should read this series. Now i am going to start 2nd book.
ஒரு முறை படிகக எடுததால முடிககாமல புததகததை மூடுவது கடினம. மிகவும எளிய தமிழில எழுதபபடட சிறபபுமிகு புதினம.
ஒரு முறை படிக்க எடுத்தால் முடிக்காமல் புத்தகத்தை மூடுவது கடினம். மிகவும் எளிய தமிழில் எழுதப்பட்ட சிறப்புமிகு புதினம்.
Narrated through the story of Vandhiyathevan, a brave go-getter messenger of the crown prince, the dangers he face on his way to deliver the messages to the king and the princess and the breezy romance with the princess forms the first part.It also explores the tension between shivites and vaishnavites of the time and touches upon the history lessons of the battle for the deccan peninsula between Chera, Chozha, Pandava and Pallava dynastiesThe author has used nostalgic recollections of characters to talk about the past and give context to the characters.
Some of them seemed a bit out of place for the sake of introduction, but that can be excused as they are after all characters in this book which has past.
ஒவவொரு பாததிரததின அறிமுகமும நெஞசில நிலைபபவை. வநதியததேவனின தூது. ஆழவாரககடியானின துடுககு. பழுவேடடரையர சூழசசி. குநதவையின அழகும அறிவும. சுநதரசோழரின உடலநலம. ஆதிதத கரிகாலனின வெறி. நநதினியின பாதிபபு. அனைததும ஆரவககுறைவு இலலாமல அழகாக எழுதபபடடிருககினறன.
ஒவ்வொரு பாத்திரத்தின் அறிமுகமும் நெஞ்சில் நிலைப்பவை. வந்தியத்தேவனின் தூது. ஆழ்வார்க்கடியானின் துடுக்கு. பழுவேட்டரையர் சூழ்ச்சி. குந்தவையின் அழகும் அறிவும். சுந்தரசோழரின் உடல்நலம். ஆதித்த கரிகாலனின் வெறி. நந்தினியின் பாதிப்பு. அனைத்தும் ஆர்வக்குறைவு இல்லாமல் அழகாக எழுதப்பட்டிருக்கின்றன.
Originally appearing in popular Tamil literature over a period of four years in the early fifties, Ponniyin Selvan: Fresh Floods is Part One of a Five book series that documents the early life of Rajaraja Chola (Chozha, as Kalki helps us pronounce correctly) - one of the greatest emperors of the Chozha dynasty of the South that rarely finds it's rightful presence in history syllabi of the school years.
That Kalki chooses to set it through the journey of Vandhiyathevan, a warrior / messenger / quick-witted hero, appears to be the highlight of what might have otherwise been a rather dowdy documentary.
The first book of Ponniyin Selvan introduces Vanthiyathevan, Princess Kunthavai and Pazhuvoor Ilayarani Nandini.
I cannot think of another book that gives so much importance to the women characters.
In fact, in this book it is the women who are central to the plot.
All the men are only supporting characters.
Poonkuzhali and Arulmozhivarman are both mentioned yet not introduced.
Since this is not the first time I am reading the book, I was impressed by how many clues Kalki drops throughout the novel about the plot twists to come.A masterpiece this one!
Words fail when I try to think about this reading experience. I started taking notes then stopped because there were just too many note worthy! Eager to start part 2.
For a long time I was searching for a big series book to read and when I saw the translated version of this famous book which is also a famous play and had also heard good things about it, it made me more curious, so I bought a copy immediately I don’t know whether this is a fantasy or historical fiction anyway I ended up starting the series.
He is smart, intelligent and a great talker it’s he who makes the whole journey even more entertaining and i am very curious to know what happens to him next.
Kalki's Ponniyin Selvan, put very simply, is the story of the Chozha empire in its heyday and the characters (real and fictional, high-born and low) that inhabit this fascinating time in Indian history.
The plot follows the intrigue of various factions and shows the politics played behind the scenes (ala Game of Thrones).
Sort of feels neither here nor there (probably because of the audience's sensibilities).Part One is done, looking forward to reading Part Two but I don't have too many high hopes.I hope someone does a modern re-write of Ponniyin Selvan.
This is fast-paced adventure set in 10th century AD Tamil Nadu. The book was written in 1950 and the writing style reminded me a lot of Robert Louis Stevenson's Treasure Island.Also, since this is the first volume of 5, most of it has been used in setting up the story, introducing characters. There are some great twists too.
இதனை மிஞச தமிழில ஒரு வரலாறறு காவியம எழுத முடியுமா ?அமரர கலகி ஒரு எழுததாளர எனபதனை விட ஒரு மிகசசிறநத வரலாறறு ஆசிரியர.Ang Lee/James Cameroon இதனை திரைபபடமாக இயககினால எபபடி இருககும ?
இதனை மிஞ்ச தமிழில் ஒரு வரலாற்று காவியம் எழுத முடியுமா ?அமரர் கல்கி ஒரு எழுத்தாளர் என்பதனை விட ஒரு மிகச்சிறந்த வரலாற்று ஆசிரியர்.Ang Lee/James Cameroon இதனை திரைப்படமாக இயக்கினால் எப்படி இருக்கும் ?
பகலில பககம பாரததுப பேச வேணடும; இரவில அதுவும பேசககூடாது
பகலில் பக்கம் பார்த்துப் பேச வேண்டும்; இரவில் அதுவும் பேசக்கூடாது
Rereading this book is like reliving a life with full of adventures. I don't hesitate to say that this is the BEST BOOK(including all the books in this series) I've ever read in my life!
My first tamil novel (translated),. Set in India, thousand years back during the Chola reign. Excellent !
பகலில பககம பாரதது பேசு; இரவில அதுவும பேசாதே.
பகலில் பக்கம் பார்த்து பேசு; இரவில் அதுவும் பேசாதே.
The story Kalki weaves is marvelous and as I have just started (one of five), I eagerly look forward to the others.
And that, this marvel written in the 1950s does splendidly, it has mystery, of conspiracies being hatched against the empire and its current rulers, the threat of invasion by enemy forces, romance with woman equated to celestial nymphs, thrill of a fast paced chase, and the glory of an adventurous & exploratory journey across the proud and plentiful Chola Empire, with cities bustling with people and produce, temples and palaces to shame even the heavens, and greenery and rivers at their brimming best.
to be clearly emphasised, the story is an entanglement of different plots, conspiracies, unexpected romantic relationships, political controversies, tragedies, dark intriguing characters.....
it is evident from the first part of the series, the author made a choice of leaving the reader with a lot of questions unanswered.
every character in the novel has a different motive behind their actions, only some of them are revealed in here, I hope second book will cut the suspense.......
there is no character in the book where you can justify them to be evil or generous or controversial.......
Brilliant .
மிகவும சுவாரசியமான கதை களம. எளிய தமிழில வரலாறறை இவவளவு அழகாக இயறறியுளளார. மறற பாகஙகளையும படிகக ஆரவம ஏறபடும படி கதையை மிக நேரததியாக படைததுளளார.
மிகவும் சுவாரசியமான கதை களம். எளிய தமிழில் வரலாற்றை இவ்வளவு அழகாக இயற்றியுள்ளார். மற்ற பாகங்களையும் படிக்க ஆர்வம் ஏற்படும் படி கதையை மிக நேர்த்தியாக படைத்துள்ளார்.
Unputdownable!!
Even translated this whole series of Ponniyan Selvan gets a 4.5 for plot, odd & diverse character development, and a sense of humor throughout! This is a -- in occidental comparison a chivalrous romance novel a la style de Dumas, but is set in the 10-11th century Southern India and has all the components of court/country intrigue, interior heart plots of vengeance and love, and lush scenery -- novel by Kalki a 20th century master of story telling & reformer of identity for Tamil Nadu &am
This is a -- in occidental comparison a chivalrous romance novel a la style de Dumas, but is set in the 10-11th century Southern India and has all the components of court/country intrigue, interior heart plots of vengeance and love, and lush scenery -- novel by Kalki a 20th century master of story telling & reformer of identity for Tamil Nadu & Tamils after mind-numbing Colonial civilizing influence back into integration with a new identity based on past glorified history of the region & it's literature (as this novel series depicts, the region was always divided with different identities with Tamil-ness being a post-independence work in progress).
I am told Kalki's language is gorgeous & appropriately different for each character's background in the original Tamil & would love to read it one day, if found, in the original.
Though I read the translated version in English and though it's clear that it loses much of its original class it's hard to put this book down once you start.
This book it seems brought back the kalki magazine to life in my father's generation.
seems people of the house used to wait outside for the magazine to arrive to be the first to read the week's chapter.
I can only imagine how painful it would have been for them to wait for each chapter to arrive.
Even today after so many years, on the day of "aadi peruku" which would he somewhere in mid July people religiously start reading the book.
My first Tamil book after so many years..
Finally I got a chance to read the first volume of Ponniyin Selvan by Kalki.
This book amazingly describes the kings in 10th century.
I am struck by the imagination of kalki.
Kalki's language is gorgeous when he describes about people and places.
Though it was slow at a few places, reading a novel in tamil itself is a very good feel.
Absolutely a page turner book..
You will not stop reading it until you cross first few chapters.
My favourite character in this book is Vandhiyadevan.
Waiting to read the next volume!!!
I cannot read Tamil. I have seen my husband and many others enjoy Ponniyin Selvan. I saw this translation at a friend's place. She recommended it and I bought it immediately. I have owned this series for about 6 years now. I am sure I have read it at least every year. It is a 6 book series. Beautifully translated. My husband and father in law who have read both versions feel that this is comparable to the original. Ofcourse, if you can read Tamil I would highly recommend that you read the original works by Kalki
Realistic Game of thrones set in the heart land of 10th century Tamil kingdom. Written in 1950s. Thrilling plot, brilliant characters through out. Less sexual depiction (not that it is bad) but more admiration for beauty and the brain of women characters. My first Tamil novel! My love for the language is re-kindled.
One hell of a roller coaster rider. Amazing plot development, Old world charm. Magical yet not fantasy. Not preachy but a treasure trove of hidden lessons.This is the first Tamil book that I have read and is very easy to follow yet a very engaging plot.Listen to the audio book if you can understand Tamil but can't read the script. Must read for every one.Can't wait to get to the other volumes.
Beautiful story. Interesting characters. I would give 5 star to the story. For non- Tamil readers like me, this book is a boon! There were some grammatical errors and spelling mistakes which put me off. Hence the 4 star. And also, the last star is reserved for the beauty of the language which I cannot award to a translated book.
A Good start to a big series. Suspense was built up slowly. Though it was slow at a few places, reading a novel in tamil in itself was a very good feeling. May be I would appreciate it better if I re read this bookLooking forward to reading the rest of the series
