https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/843989.Enigma
Tom Jericho is a whiz code breaker who was a crucial player in breaking the original Enigma code.
The Germans are making it tough on the Brits, changing aspects of their coding process to keep one step ahead of the codebreakers and their new-fangled computing machines.
With a major floating convoy about to head from the USA to beleaguered European Allies, offering a wealth of targets for eager German u- boats, it is critical that the latest German code changes be broken.
Harris offers us a more detailed picture of the Enigma project, making it clear that this was not a single code breaking, but a process, an ongoing enterprise.
Robert Harris followed up his brilliant debut novel 'Fatherland' with 'Enigma' set during WWII in Britain with Bletchley Park (as then top secret) code breaking facility as its backdrop and named after the German mechanical cipher (Enigma) machines.Whilst not perhaps quite as strong or consistent as 'Fatherland' this is nevertheless an excellent historical thriller, very evocative of the era and creating a great sense of authenticity and tension throughout. Robert Harris displays his (by now) usual highly accomplished storytelling skills to great effect here.
An excellent historical novel based on the incredible actual story of Bletchley Park and the decrypting of the Enigma codes used by the Germans before and during WWII. This was of particular interest to me because we visited Bletchley this past summer and could appreciate the well described horrible physical conditions under which so much valuable work was carried out. Also, the breaking of the Enigma codes by Polish mathematicians, acknowledged only decades later by the Brits, is an important plot element in the sequel to A FLOOD OF EVIL which I am currently writing ... A Flood of Evil
A solid effort from Robert Harris as he once again gives us an insight into historical events. I couldn't give anymore than two stars because it didn't blow me away like Fatherland did. It was just good. My only gripe is the amount of info dumping he fits into some of his chapters. Sometimes it's code breaking language overload!
The premise is a good one: it’s an espionage story set in Bletchley Park in Buckinghamshire, which during World War II was the site of the UK’s main decryption establishment.
Mathematics and my brain are not a good combination, so what is arguably the most interesting aspect of the novel completely escaped me.
I feel a bit bad about this, because there’s nothing wrong with Harris’ writing.
In fact, his writing is pretty good and I’d be more than happy to read some more of his work.
Maybe if I see an Enigma machine I'll actually understand what encryption and code breaking during WWII was all about.
Two mid-level protagonists in a closed environment, a wartime secret unearthed ...
by inevitable comparison between two WWII novels, Fatherland  comes out on top.
I wish I liked this story better, for the Enigma background is solid, rotors spinning and women auxilaries kept in the dark as the smell of overheated circuits drifts.
Also, the nerdy protagonist doesn't get the girl and The Girl isn't the hottie.
Perhaps I expected a bigger impact of their actions upon the course of the war, but, as in reality, secrets can be efficiently buried again.suggested reading:
Enigma - The Battle for the Code by Hugh Sebag-Montefiore
"Също като в шахматна задача математическото доказателство трябва да бъде изящно и да притежава три основни качества: неизбежност, неочакваност и икономичност".Мисля че няма по-добър цитат, който да опише тази книга на Робърт Харис - тя е едновременно изящна, без излишества и натруфеност, неочаквано те грабва и неизбежно ще хареса на умния читател.
Ако сте останали запленени от него, непременно прочетете "Енигма" на Робърт Харис.
Робърт Харис е прекрасен разказвач - стегнат, обран, с чудесни сравнения и без подценяване на читателя.
Първа за мен, но не и последна среща с него.
I had assumed that the mystery was simplified for the movie, but it turns out that’s how it’s written.The author says that while the characters are fictional, the book is set “against the background of an actual historical event” and “the German naval signals quoted in the text are all authentic”.It’s set at Bletchley Park in 1943, just as the Germans have changed their weather codebook, meaning the British cryptanalysts can no longer decipher the encrypted U-boat communications.
There is some nice tension, and even a couple of car chases, but for the most part Jericho and Hester have little trouble gathering the bits of data they need to solve the mystery.
The horrors of Hitler and WWII seem magnified by the passing of time and one can only wonder what the world would be like today if the hundreds of dedicated folks at Bletchley Park had not cracked the Enigma Code and, more importantly, had not been able to keep that fact a secret from the Axis powers.
That they conceived and built massively complex mechanical and eventually electronic forerunners to the modern-day computer seems less of a surprise than it was when I first read Enigma by Robert Harris.
2018I’ve just re-read this inadvertently, thought the plot was familiar but then I might have seen a film adaptation, and in any event I’m familiar with the Enigma story.Again I’d give it 3.5, but it was a perfect quick read in between some solid stuff.
The plot is a bit creakybut Harris keeps the action moving along.
My next read is a non-fiction book on US/UK scientific collaboration by Stephen Budiansky: 'Blackett's War. The men who defeated the Nazi U boats and brought science to the art of warfare'.(Still haven’t read this by 2018)
It turns out that the Enigma codes and Bletchley Park form the context for the story, which is actually a spy novel with its main focus on personal relationships.
It is quintessentially English - socially inept single academics with odd habits and dubious hygiene; military officers whose status is more the result of their family and school ties than their intelligence and expertise; shadowy Intelligence officers from the bowels of Whitehall; brash, duplicitous Americans...the only person missing was George Smiley!!A quirky young mathematician, Thomas Jericho, a former colleague of Turing, returns from Kings College Cambridge to Bletchley Park, where the German Enigma cryptography system was decoded, after a nervous collapse sidelined him.
Harris is rather more my mother throwing together a nice but not terribly inspiring dinner than the three-star restaurant serving a steak, but, hey, I don't go out to restaurants every day of my life, and my literary cuisine can use an occasional homemade plain meal.The basic story focuses on the WWII decryption of the Germans' Enigma code; a feat which both helped win the war - perhaps singlehandedly won it - and was the root of yours truly's review sitting out here today, and you being profoundly bored by it.
Our hero, the fictional Thomas Jerrico, is a student of Alan Turing himself (Turing makes a brief appearance in the book) and trained and recruited to Bletchley Park on the naval side of things as one of those working to break the Enigma.
Alongside, he must also try to find an answer to the new code set in a short time, something that seems even to him pretty much impossible.This was a very enjoyable read for me both as a mystery/thriller and as historical fiction.
The mystery itself―not quite a whodunit―was also interesting and enjoyable though it, may be, picked up more pace in the second half.
For many people, Ian Fleming summed up spy stories when he described his own James Bond books as being ‘bang, bang, bang, kiss, kiss, that sort of stuff’.
It is a story about the code breakers who worked at the secret Bletchley Park establishment to break the German Enigma code during World War II.
It took Harris three years to write the book, as little had ever been made public about Bletchley Park and he had to track down former code breakers and personnel who were able to tell him about life there and how the code breakers had actually worked.
Отново превъзходен Робърт Харис!
Today everybody knows about Bletchley Park, Buckinghamshire, where the British tried to keep up with the cryptography of the German Reich by cracking the enigma machine that coded the German communication.
The name of Alan Turing is well known and his role in breaking the German coded messages are well documented in various other books and movies.
Is there a spy in the Park and how can they break the codes once more in order to save lives in the Atlantic.An interesting and fascinating spy thriller situated in the world of Bletchley Park that feels often like you are part of it, as you live it.
To encode their radio communications, Nazi-Germany uses the so-called „ENIGMA“ – a type-writer-like device with rotors, each with the 26 letters of the standard alphabet.
Um ihren Funkverkehr zu verschlüsseln, nutzt Nazi-Deutschland die "ENIGMA", ein Schreibmaschine-ähnliches Gerät mit Walzen mit je den 26 Buchstaben des normalen Alphabets.
Sie hatten ein Code-Buch in den Griff bekommen mit einer Verschlüsselung von Wetter-Daten, die sie als Einstieg nutzen konnten, mit sogenannten "Cribs" (wahrscheinlichen Wörtern).
Solch ein Code kann durch Probieren gelöst werde, da man zum Beispiel die Buchstaben a und öfter erwarten dürfte als x oder y.
Der Rest ist meist locker an Fakten angelehnt, vergleiche https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enigma_...
Tom Jericho, hailed as one of the most brilliant codebreakers, is on a break, suffering from a combination of stress, overwork and a broken heart over a girl named Claire.
Throughout the book, Harris feeds out his extensive research into Bletchley and codebreaking at the right moments and in the right quantities, as a natural part of the story so that it never feels like an info dump.
Harris also raises the point that it was often necessary not to act on the information gathered from Enigma so that the Germans wouldn't realise the codes had been broken and change them.
A mystery story built around the wartime code breaking operation at Bletchley with the brilliant Tom Jericho brought back from a nervous breakdown and seeking to find the girl he had fallen in love with and also breaking down the new Enigma code for U boats attacking North Atlantic convoys. Well written by Robert Harris, deeper and more complex than the film version, with a great twist at the end
I didn't get to know Claire well enough before she disappeared, and was therefore not invested in finding out why she'd buggered off.I am most fed up with plots which rely on beautiful (blond) women who use their sexuality to manipulate men in power ('Claire'), contrasted with plain, feminist, hard-working lesbian types who always seem to get screwed over (Hester Wallace).Several things irritated me about the writing style.
The character called Logie seemed to say 'old love' after every single thing -- a tic as annoying on the page as it would be in real life.I got utterly sick of the constant snide jabs at Hester's clothing and appearance, in case the reader hadn't picked up from the initial thumbnail sketch exactly what sort of trope she is.
This is the second of Harris' novels that I've read, and I've enjoyed both.
His writing is smooth & flows naturally, his characters are interesting, the plot lines are realistic and, for the two I've read, had a fictional idea woven into actual events (which I thoroughly enjoy, as it entertains and educates me).
There were times Harris got more in-depth with describing the decoding, which was completely over my head; however, those were occasional and I was able to follow the story just fine, regardless.
This was great...as is everything Harris writes. I'd seen this movie years ago, and I loved the book. Great writing, characters, suspense. Excellent!
Harris weaves a very intriguing mystery into the greater struggle of breaking the Enigma machine.
Like Jericho and Hester I really want to know what happened to Claire - even if I don't like her much.
I really did want to know not only where she disappeared, but why and because of whom.
Like Jericho, as soon as that mystery was solved I felt a sense of release and was able to move on.
I gave the novel three stars because Harris' writing style felt a little...dry.
I think this book's biggest strength is the picture it paints of every day life in England during the war.
Set in 1943 when Turing’s famous Enigma machine has cracked most of the codes, the impenetrable cipher ‘Shark’ is still lurking in dark waters.
As a top-secret team of cryptographers works on Shark in the background, a brilliant mathematician Tom Jericho begins to investigate his own mystery.
When a beautiful lady called Claire goes missing and the cipher code changes, all sorts of things go through Tom’s head and he begins to wonder if there’s a traitor in their midst.
I enjoyed how the story contained a parallel subplot that ran alongside the main storyline, which was full of drama and nail-biting action that kept me guessing throughout.
Brilliant. I can imagine Lily James (Rose from Downton Abbey) playing Claire. Well written. Enjoyed it immensely. 5 stars.
Enough time has elapsed since original publication (1995) that I believe this mystery thriller of World War II code breaking can be considered a genre classic.
The thriller aspects center on Bletchley Park and efforts to break (rebreak actually) the extremely complex German Enigma codes.
Worked into the plot are fascinating details on code breaking in general and the Enigmas in particular.
Mystery aspects mostly involve the shadowy figure of Claire Romilly.
Who she is, what she has done, where she has gone.
A film version was released in 2001 and I remember it as not particularly involving.
2.5/5 Probably the weakest of the 8 novels I have read by the author. The story of how the German cryptography codes were cracked. The narration style is typical of Harris - leisurely paced, with some good set-pieces and important history is part of the revelation at the end. But, found this one a bit too long, and a bit obscure. The obscurity reminded me of le Carre.
Fantastic read! Not only is Harris's prose style wonderful (the man can tell a story!) but the history of Bletchley Park is an integral part of the British WWII effort that must be known about and was only recently declassified.
This book for me was in parts too complicated in the sense I found the mechanics overwhelming at times. However, there is a healthy amount of suspense which keeps the pages turning. I would say it is certainly worth a read.
It was daily, grueling work that involved thousands of people, most of whom never knew what happened to the tiny bits of data they saw, much less what any of it said.
The whole endeavor was mind-boggling.The thriller bit was good too, but I had seen the movie many moons ago and as I read the book, some of the basic outlines of the plot came back, which meant it wasn't as thrilling as it otherwise might have been.
