https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6662279-herbert-west
One of the best H.P. Lovecraft's stories! Herbert West believes that human body is not other than an “organic machine” and therefore, there has to be a way of “re-starting” it when it passed away. Since he was a medical student at Miskatonic University, he allied with the story’s narrator, another fellow medical student, to make secret experiments to make possible the reanimation of a dead person, and those experiments continued once both get their medical degrees and began their private medica
I believe that it allows him (not matter if he wanted or not) to greatly plot a very dark, way grim and quite morbid tale, easy to understand, easy to follow, easy to enjoy, without any metaphysical ambiguous elements.
Yes, Cthulhu is cool but, here, Lovecraft proved that he could developed a totally human villain, with totally human wickedness, that he was evil of his own without having being contaminated by some paranormal and/or alien external source.
H.P. Lovecraft stories don't usually make me think of Mel Brooks and Bruce Campbell, but "Herbert West" is definitely an exception.This story, like H.P.’s subsequent work “The Lurking Fear,” was written to-order as a serial publication for the humor magazine Home Brew.
On the contrary, H.P. embraces this over-the-top tale of “re-animation”—a congeries of cliches filched from Frankenstein, “The Body Snatcher” and more debased sources—and makes of it a mocking parody of gothic horror, the only thoroughly successful work of death’s head humor Lovecraft ever achieved.Herbert West, the grave blue-eyed, blond-haired medical student and his narrator sidekick, raid the nearby graveyards and hospitals looking for fresh corpses to stir into life.
Lovecraft's solid attempt at a Frankenstein story. Pretty ghastly descriptions. Good stuff!
Although presented here as one story, this is actually a series of six linked stories about the mad scientist, Dr. Herbert West.
Originally published as a serial, the magazine that they were written for apparently (and unfortunately) demanded that Lovecraft 're-cap' previous events in each installment, which makes for repetitive, tedious reading when you're not waiting a month between segments.Once the re-cap bits are dealt with, though, the story itself is great fun.
But after reading the stories, I actually feel that a schlocky, campy adaptation is appropriate to the source material.
Still, each chapter show the obsession that was the driving force of West's life and his following degradation.
From experimenting on animals to body-snatching to finally obtaining a truly fresh specimen, West was determined to reanimate the corpses he got.
'Briefly and brutally stated, West's sole absorbing interest was a secret study of the phenomena of life and its cessation, leading toward the reanimation of the dead through injections of an excitant solution.' While West is an obsessed lunatic, the narrator doesn’t even have that to justify his actions.
Esta es, por lejos, una de las historias que más me perturbaron en la vida. Literalmente tuve que apartar el plato de comida durante el almuerzo porque no podía continuar con el mismo mientras leía semejantes asquerosidades. Es sencillamente magnífico, y me da gusto saber que aún sigue causándome la misma repulsión y fascinación que cuando era más pequeña. Recomendadísimo.
Four stars until the end, now five.I wonder if SK found partial inspiration for "Revival" from this short story. A scientist becomes obsessed with reanimating life. The beginning reminded me of the movie "Flatliners," which I loved. Lovecraft began the story in a medical college, and the two did experiments attempting to reanimate the dead.Herbert West, the narrator's comrade, increases in obsession over years, taking his obsession for dead bodies and parts for his experiments to joining the war effort, with alternative motives.The story has a fantastic ending, in my opinion.
One of the most accessible and straight-forward horror short stories by Lovecraft. A good place to start for those who want to try this author. Great audiobook narrator on Librivox.One thing tho, this story was originally serialised in some publication which is why each chapter/part includes some kind of recap and might feel repetitive if you read the whole thing in one sitting.
WOW! Just wow! I haven't read many of Lovecraft's stories yet but this is my favorite so far!Here is an awesome audiobook of the story. Part 1https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgtkh...Part 2https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EekqG...
Note: This story is part of The Complete Works of H.P. Lovecraft, made available in ebook format at CthulhuChick.com.Synopsis: The narrator tells the story, in multiple vignettes, of Herbert West's obsessive quest to reanimate the recently dead.My Thoughts: When I lived in Eden Prairie, Minnesota, my husband at the time and I developed an obsession with B-movies of all ilk, watching them for hours.
Among those we particularly enjoyed were the "Reanimator" series of films, based upon this short story.The story provides a low-level, steady progression of horror as the narrator watches Herbert West devolve into madness.
Al final optamos por las fosas comunes, ya que prácticamente todos los cuerpos del Cementerio Cristiano estaban embalsamados, algo que por supuesto constituía una adversidad para las investigaciones de West.”Los primeros intentos de resucitar a los muertos resultan fallidos, trayendo a la vida horrores que les aterrorizan a ellos y a nosotros como lectores, ya que lo que vuelve a la vida puede ser muy peligroso, nos envuelve en incertidumbre el hecho de la resurrección de los muertos; sorprende que en esos momentos el humor negro aflore:“Tanto para Herbert West como para mí, el disgusto y el horror fueron supremos.
I have a slight fixation on Jeffrey Combs which inevitably led me to watching Stuart Gordon's Reanimator as well as some of Combs's other Lovecraft-based films, most of which didn't really convince me to read Lovecraft ("body horror"; required scene of a monster groping naked and screaming Barbara Crampton).
I had been warned by a friend beforehand that the film is quite different from the short story.
I can't say I approached this warning with much trepidation as though I enjoyed the campy gorefest of a film, I was not sure if I would have liked reading such a depiction.
However, Jeffrey Combs read the story.
I'll be completely honest and say that I don't know for sure if I allowed myself to fall victim to the age in which I was born; maybe I have come to expect and demand more detailed gore? Maybe it was because I'd mistakingly read Pete Rawlik's  Reanimators  before I read this one. Maybe I was colored by my personal dislike for the author and his description of people of color (and for his 'rectification' of said issue, I feel that Rawlik is owed kudos). I don't know. But I do know that I didn't m
I'll be completely honest and say that I don't know for sure if I allowed myself to fall victim to the age in which I was born; maybe I have come to expect and demand more detailed gore?
Maybe it was because I'd mistakingly read Pete Rawlik's 
But I do know that I didn't much care for Herbert West: Reanimator.
; it had that special kind of dread that snuck up on you, that kept you constant company and while you knew that it would end badly, you couldn't quite foresee how.)While Herbert West: Reanimator didn't contain any tentacles, and did contain plenty of the risen dead, I can't say that it was one of my more enjoyable reads.
Very funny, by classic Poe-type author. Concise and much easier to read than a lot of Lovecraft's works. Fans of the movie should check this out, as the plot differs quite a bit. My favorite phrase is "corpse of a doubtful vintage". Hilarious.
O primeiro tem vários capítulos e deve ter sido escrito para ser publicado aos poucos em jornais ou revistas porque cada capítulo repete o essencial dos capítulos anteriores, o que é deveras irritante.
O terceiro texto é um conto que me foi totalmente indiferente.Quanto ao do meio, o Celephais, desse gostei mesmo muito e vale por todo o livro.
Edit: Fui pesquisar (ao blog Eu e o Bam) e o Reanimador foi mesmo destinado a ser publicado por partes, o próprio autor não gostou dele - escreveu-o apenas pelo dinheiro - e , aliás, é uma paródia do Frankenstein de Mary Shelley.
Herbert West forma, junto con Randolph Carter y Charles Dexter Ward, mi apreciada y adorada Tríada Lovecraftiana. Este relato es un guiño especial a "Frankenstein" de Mary Shelley y a "La verdad sobre el caso del señor Valdemar" de Edgar Allan Poe. Y creo que es una de las primeras historias sobre muertos vivientes. Una historia excelente y aterradora con ese toque macabro que Lovecraft comienza a usar. <3
Probably the best audiobook presentation I have ever listened to. Combs is amazing.
Definitely one of Lovecraft's best in terms of tone and creativity. The only issue is the repetition of the narrator at the beginning of each section. This is due to the text originally being a serialization, though it is rather inconvenient for a modern reader.
Most of the time, it's the movie adaptation from the book.
But, since I fell in love with the movie first, I went into this story with guarded optimism.
Lovecraft was paid to write the story in installments and end each installment in a cliff hanger fashion.
What I love most about this story and other ones written by Lovecraft, for that matter, is that you can see all the influences he had on the horror genre.
Herbert West:Reanimator is an easy and fun introduction to Lovecraft, especially if you're already familiar with the movie adaptation.
Repugna mucho más que los anteriores cuentos que leí, pero no me pareció tan bueno como ellos.
Extrañé la morbosidad implícita a la que venía acostumbrada (no porque la prefiera, sino porque me gusta cómo Lovecraft la maneja) y estoy segura de que los capítulos autoconclusivos influyeron un poco.El narrador, esta vez, está involucrado directamente en los hechos porque es el ayudante del doctor Herbert West, hombre de ciencia empecinado en reanimar cadáveres.
Las distintas partes del cuento compiten entre sí para demostrar cuál es el más aterrador de todos y me dio la sensación de que pierde un poco el efecto en su totalidad.

The second bit of Lovecraft I've checked out recently. Not as compelling as The Call of Cthulhu, but still a fun read - especially as a big fan of the movie adaptation. If you've seen the 1985 film, then the original is going to seem pretty tame (no exploding entrails or severed heads going down on hapless women). Still, it was interesting to see familiar themes, details, and plot points from the first two movies, as originally envisioned by Lovecraft.
Este foi o meu primeiro H. P. Lovecraft. Gostei muito do segundo conto (Celephais), menos dos outros, mas gostei do tipo de escrita, negro, envolvente, com um toque de fantasia. É uma escrita claramente datada, mas talvez também por isso, resulte tão bem.
I loved this story it was cool to read and very enticing, my favorite right now from lovecraft , I couldn't wait to turn the pages
Breny29 octubre 2018 H.P. Lovecraft escribió este relato entre 1921 y 1922 para una revista por entregas y hay que decir que primeramente no es a lo que nos tiene realmente acostumbrados.Primeramente es obvio que este relato está inspirado en Frankestein, esto no es ninguna novedad, el mismo Lovecraft lo dijo en su tiempo, pero lo que si no dijo era que este relato es más escalofriante, más detallado y mucho, mucho mas sangriento que el de Mary Shelley.Narrado por el que sería el ayudante y ami
Breny29 octubre 2018	H.P. Lovecraft escribió este relato entre 1921 y 1922 para una revista por entr

Maravillosa historia. Realmente perturbadora. Es importante destacar la carencia en esta historia de entidades cósmicas, son solo dos hombres en la búsqueda de reanimar cadáveres.La recomendaría a todo quien le guste el horror, me recomendaron leerlo junto al caso de Charles Dexter ward y horror en dunwich. Debo decir que se sienten muy bien al complementarse.
Pluses: -Lovecraft escribe genial.-La referencia directa a Frankenstein pero con cambios que hacen que gane mucho.-El Doctor cómo monstruo pero tirando a psicópata más que a no-creyente-La sensación de asistir a un proceso científico más o menos real.Contras:-Que se repite como el ajo porque estuvo serializado -Fucking racist as fuck-Clasista de cojones
I can't help but think that if Lovecraft had ever assembled a collection of stories, he would've heavily reedited this to get rid of the repetitive recaps that begin each chapter, a vestige of the story's serialized origin.
Amazingly creepy.
