https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/402013.Angus_Thongs_and_Full_Frontal_Snogging
I don't mean he ripped my blouse off, he just rested his hand on the front of my breast.
Just for a second, before he turned and went off to school.12:30 p.m.What does it mean when a boy rests his hand on your breast?
No sign of Mark (the breast molester) when I got home, thank goodness.4:45 p.m.Still, you would think if a boy rests his hand on your breast he might bother to see you sometime.* * *Sunday, February 7th11:00 a.m.Got dressed in short skirt, then me and Jas walked up and down to the main road.
Basically, the only reason I read this book is because my lovely coffee-soddened friend, Pragya, who is probably trying to get back at me for some horrible thing I did but am unaware of, convinced me to.
:) :)This book is so terrible and I feel like I probably shouldn’t be rating it, since it’s not targeted towards me, but,  it’s just so  bad.
I’m sorry if you’re offended, or if this book was your early teenage happiness but the only reason I wrote such a terrible review was for the crazy coffee lover I mentioned earlier.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Meet Georgia. She’s basically a 14-year old version of this . . . .  I’m sure plenty of other reviews have and will point out that . . . .  But you know what? I still am was an asshole much like Georgia back in the day. Angus, Thongs and Full Frontal Snogging is a year in the life of Georgia courtesy of her journal and was most definitely just what the doctor ordered for me to read on Presidential Debate Day. I never expected to laugh
Angus, Thongs and Full Frontal Snogging is a year in the life of Georgia courtesy of her journal and was most definitely just what the doctor ordered for me to read on Presidential Debate Day. I never expected to laugh out loud reading the trials and tribulations of this teenie bopper, but I sure as shart did.
And trying to get some uhhhhhhhh experience (if ya know what I’m sayin’) .
And sometimes I just want to laugh.
If you’re interested in the same, then you too might find Angus, Thongs and Full Frontal Snogging to be .
This is another book, from the brits, that people either love or hate.
I happen to love this series, and laughed so hard I actually cried.
I think people who hate this book are turned off by the main character Georgia.
It's written as a diary and a lot of people like to compare it to Bridget Jones.
I have never read Bridget Jones so I can't really comment on that.
They may have thought I was having a seizure, but in fact I as laughing my bum off.
I recommend not reading this book in public. Or when you're on your lunch break and still in your office, or in my case cubicle. Early on there's a list in the book and in said list is the main characters' concern that her three year old sister might have peed somewhere in her room. It caught me completely off guard and while trying to block my laughter I ended up snorting so loud that the person on the other side of my cubicle wall came over to see if I needed the Heimlich maneuver.
I was so sad to hear the passing of Louise.. I read this when I was a teenager and I can never forget how funny it was.. You will be missed Mrs. Rennison RIP..
I don't have much to say about this book other than at many points this book was more than hilarious! It was hysterical!The writing was quite good and the protagonist was interesting. She was the typical epitome of most teenage girls on the cusp between childhood and adulthood. I felt it dragged on a bit toward the end. Over all though, it was funny, interesting and most of all, enjoyable.Big thanks to Tatiana for recommending it to me!
But this, aside from having a few funny moments, was mostly a 14 year old selfish angst-fest.
I got so bored with it by the middle that I ended up skimming most of the second half.
Drama, boys, makeup, snotty fucking "sense of humor" and cattiness.
I think a lot of them were supposed to be funny, like "Oh, I'm going to do this thing and it's going to make me look like a fashion model and then the Sex God will love me!" and then 2 minutes later, "My life is ruined!" Ha ha ha.
See how funny that was?
This book was my bible back in '08.Seriously. My friends and I would refer to this book whenever we had something that could be considered as "boy problems". In '08, I was 13/14, and I'd fallen in love with Aaron Johnson after watching the film so, of course, I had to read the book. It was funny and we could easily relate to it at the time, who am I kidding, I still like to consult Georgia Nicholson in the midst of a crisis.Also Aaron JohnsonHe was practically my first celebrity/fictional/pretend boyfriend. He was is so gorgeous.LET ME LOVE YOU.
I got to the point where I couldn't read this book during silent reading time in my class, it made me laugh so hard.
A snippet about a girl who accidentally-on-purpose shaves off her eyebrows is cringingly amusing, but when it's told in five or six installments, each a few minutes apart, and that snippet weaves itself through the rest of the narrative in little comments like, "No news on the eyebrow front," there's no way to avoid laughing until your stomach aches.
The fact of the matter is that Georgia is a tragic hero.
You couldn't laugh so much if there wasn't something inherently tragic about her inability to enjoy life and admit it.
This was just as fabbity-fab as I remember it. Oh, Georgia, you say the most ridiculous shit, and I love you more for being such a drama llama every time. She's a complete loon of a 14-year-old in every possible way. I laughed out loud every few pages. I can't wait to get to the books that I haven't read at the end of the series!
Huh, I don't think I've ever worn a training bra.
She was supposed to come home today but apparently it's Sunday.
I wish she'd come home today so she would actually say it to my face.
Well, at least, Georgia seems to agree with me.3:28 pmThat reminds me of the time I was biking to school and my saddle flew off.
O-O3:57 pmOMG, GEORGIA TALKS IN ALL CAPS TOO.4:02 pmI was such a wuss in secondary school.
Ugh. Losers.5:17 pmHahahahahahahaha.5:19 pmI don't like the word "snogging".
This is just getting ridiculous.8:26 pmI don't think we mean the same thing when we say someone is wet.
Never would I have thought I'd enjoy reading about the drama of a 14 year old girl. Georgia is hilarious and reminded me of a younger, British version of Daria. Between Georgia dressing up as an olive, shaving off her eyebrows, her Scottish wild-cat Angus and her crazy baby sister who calls everyone a tosser... well Georgia is a new favorite.
Young girls with socially conservative or religious backgrounds (who see relationships between the opposite sex as a serious matter, not something to be traded around like a baseball card), or girls who are involved in sports, the arts and academics (giving them a goal to strive for rather than finding their identity solely in their popularity) may not enjoy this book.Over-all, a good look into the life of a tween, being an enthralling read for tweens that may identify, and the laugh-out-loud hilarity give it high marks, but there are also tweens (and parents) who may strongly dislike the loose morals and shallowness of the main character.
The books are written in diary format, and they happen to be the diaries of the craziest British girl who ever walked this earth, plus she comes equipped with equally crazy friends and a marvelously dysfunctional family.
An example of one of Georgia's entries:"Jas phoned and wanted to go shopping - there's some new makeup that looks so natural you can't tell you have got any on.I said, 'Do they have eyebrows?'She said, 'Why?
Everyone's got eyebrows.
I shaved them off by mistake.'She said, 'I'm coming round now; don't do anything until I get there.' "
I really enjoyed this book. It was a lot of fun to read. I loved Georgia. She was snarky, funny, sarcasticand I loved every bit of it!
This is the diary of 14 year old Georgia Nicholson. It documents her daily life and inner thoughts - it's funny and a bit daft but if you want an easy read it's worth giving a go.
Let me just start this review by saying I love this book.
It is hilarious.
I'm going to start recommending this book to everyone I know.
But, just so you know, this book is strictly a fun read, nothing more (still well worth reading, believe me).
Georgia Nicolson is a self-centered fourteen-year-old girl growing up in England.
Her story is told through her daily (-ish) journal entries: all about her fourth year (the equivalent of ninth grade here in the States) at her all-girl school.
While her thoughts aren't in the least bit deep - quite the opposite, really - they are quite hilarious.

I'm not rating/reviewing anything from this series it was my favourite series when I was younger, I'm just reading them to get out of my slump...Literally haven't read this series sine I was a teenager. Needed something light hearted, quick and easy. This was the choice and I'm so happy I did :)
This was so cute and the perfect read for a day home sick from school! I have seen the movie several times and finally decided to read the book. I love Georgia's voice and am off to go read the second!
Georgia is hilarious, it's been a while since a book had me cracking up out loud like this one.I don't get teenage girls because I never got to be one in the full sense of the word.
So I don't know if the sleepovers and all this obsession with their looks and plotting to get a boy was really normal or what.
Georgia took really bad decisions half of the time and was incredibly selfish the other half.
She made out with every living creature but fell for the super hot and older boy with girlfriend.
I have to re-read this book every once in a while due to sheer hilarity. I am not allowed beverages while reading this book.
This book is laugh out loud funny!
Gee is neither kind nor cruel, smart nor intelligent, but witty she is and she is forever getting herself into a jam due to her neurotic nature and obsession with boys, make up and hair.Angus, Thongs, and Full Frontal Snogging won't enrich your life.
It's not meaningful, unless its serves as a trumpeter for individuality, you won't learn life lessons, but it's great for a laugh and serves as a reminder of how silly and daft we females once were.
I've never laughed this much while reading a book in a very long time! This was such a quick and hilarious book that I finished it in only few hours! This is exactly what I needed to get over my reading slump. Highly recommend this book for its silliness and hilarious scenes!
The book is British, and has lots of odd British humor, but plenty of humor that will make even the most curmudgeonly person laugh their butt off.
I can't think of a single person who would not find at least part of this book hilarious.
I've never laughed so hard at a book in my life.
At one point I laughed so hard someone asked me why I was crying.
I'm pretty sure I actually rolled on the floor laughing at one point.
I can't think of anything to say about this book other than it's hilarious, refreshing, and amazing.

I always appreciate a good reread of this hilarious, charming book. Even the immature elements of this book are forgivable because it so perfectly and wholly captures the young teenage psyche. Silly, but so funny.
I need negative stars for this. The average rating needs to go dooowwwnnn.
WHATAHOOT...This was probably the best use of 2.5 hours that I've spent since reading Bill Bryson's, "A Walk in the Woods".Brit comedian/author Louise Rennison takes on the teen female mindset with hilariosity and realism.
Georgia would surely have thought me a wally prat, and she wouldn't be off the mark.In short, "Angus, Thongs and Full-Frontal Snogging" pokes sarcastic fun of all that it is to be young, insecure and 14, but does so in a way that leaves you no doubt that Rennison remembers, understands and celebrates girl-dom.
I loved it, and look forward to further adventures with Georgia, Angus, Libby, Jas and the SG (sex god).
