https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2754510-storm-born
The one thing I'll say about this novel is that Mead writes good sex.
She writes gripping, interesting characters, a rich world and stories that hint at great possibilities, but Mead absolutely sucks at the follow through.
Now I'll address the fictional critics in my head by saying that yes, Mead gave all these douches a reason to rape the protagonist that wasn't just about sex.
well, it just doesn't count and I'll explain why.I don't know about you, but *I* am personally sick of stories that tell me that because I have a vagina, I am a walking talking victim waiting to happen.
"You would do better to find someone milder and more malleable. Someone less ambitious."I considered his words. Maybe he was right. Maybe. "Men without ambition are boring.""And that attitude, mistress, is why the females of your kind continue to struggle for equality. And why they continue to fail."  #toorealStorm Born follows the adventures of Eugenie Markham aka "Odile", a shaman who banishes ghosts, elementals, and fairy gentry in odd jobs from her home in the desert. While trying to rescue
Maybe he was right.
Maybe.
"Men without ambition are boring.""And that attitude, mistress, is why the females of your kind continue to struggle for equality.
And why they continue to fail."
What Eugenie doesn't realize is that a recent Otherworld prophecy has proclaimed her as the soon-to-be mother of a great conqueror.
They will be best summed up in gifs!Eugenie/Odile: imagined as: if you ask me: Kiyo:imagined as: if you ask me: Dorian:imagined as: my reaction: Volusian:imagined as: my reaction: Everyone else:This is part one in a series BR with the BB&B peeps.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestWhen I was a teenager and did not know the difference between good fiction and bad fiction, I used to sit and read stories on this site called Quizilla - which, funnily enough, mostly had bad fiction. There, I read a lot of anime fanfiction and original fiction paranormal romance stories usually involving vampires or demons. One of the common themes? The heroine was nearly always a virgin and whoever won the sexual race/lottery and got to h
There, I read a lot of anime fanfiction and original fiction paranormal romance stories usually involving vampires or demons.
So obviously, the heroines in these stories got kidnapped and/or threatened with rape a lot, because this is what immortals do: scope out Craigslist ads that say: "Me: human girl with magical hoo-ha.
For the majority of the book, nearly every single male character the heroine encounters tries to rape her.
That was gross.I tried to think about how I wanted to rate this book because some of the sex scenes were okay, and there was a lot of creativity that went into building this world.
At this point, I've pretty much read everything she's written (BLOODLINES being the one exception), but for whatever reason, she's never one of my obvious choices whenever someone asks me who my favorite authors are.DARK SWAN is a perfect analogy for my relationship with with Mead.
Even if I didn't have a thing for gingers--which I totally do--I would worship at Dorian's alter, b/c beyond all his red and gold glory, his kink (just some light bondage, people, don't get nervous) is off the charts sexy.
But my love of the good things is so great that I can't stop reading her.
If there's such a thing as a dysfunctional relationship with an author or series, this is it.
In theory, it was interesting to delve into Eugenie's secret heritage as the Storm King's daughter, but for the focus to be on who could get her pregnant and who wanted to have sex with her so often seemed to limit her importance as a whole person.
I think I would have liked it better if she had kept things at the flirting level with one of the guys, and explored a sexual relationship with the other in a different book.
I think it would have made this book pop a lot more if I got to see how kick-butt Eugenie was without the editorial, and it raised questions for me why she was so freaking badass.
By the end of this I clearly have someone I’m rooting for in the l♥ve department but more than that I like the idea and mesh up of the Fae realm and the human realm in this book and the different monsters, demons magic etc… It was a cool introduction to the world and with Eugenie’s role in the potential prophecy things could get really hectic and messy.Eugenie is like a supernatural private eye.
One of my favourite books. And definitely my favourite series by Richelle Mead. However, I wish there was no Kiyo - he's annoying and taking too much space. Dorian should be there more, like all the time!
I love Mead's Vampire Academy series, like Succubus books as well; naturally I expected to enjoy Storm Born too.
Unfortunately, I was wrong.
In fact, I couldn't believe how bad it was.
Did Richelle actually write this?First of all, the plot itself was very weak.
There was no point to the story, no climax, just a few things thrown together with no purpose.
I finished the book not caring about anybody.
Mythology which is central to any fantasy book was uninspired and boring.This was truly the weakest of Mead's books.
If I were her, I wouldn't bother to continue this series and instead concentrate on her better ones.
Once we got more page time with Dorian and got to see Eugenie work on her powers it became more interesting.Eugenie's relationship with Kiyo baffled me.
She also had a really bad habit of admitting the likelihood of a truth to herself and then turning around 2 seconds later and denying it to anyone who tries to make her face the truth.I liked watching Eugenie's spirits bicker back and forth.
I don't think he's going to be pleased with Eugenie's determination to get her power rush in the next book.***END SPOILERS***I still plan on reading the next book, Thorn Queen.
I'm a big Richelle Mead fan since reading her Succubus series but I feel she majorly let herself down with this one.
I kind of felt that this book was just some sort of unleashing of Mead's weird fantasies - couldn't she have just started a blog and spared me the anticipation of thinking "oh great, another Richelle Mead novel" only to then be faced with the disappointment that inevitably followed.Mead shouldn't have promised the reader a urban fantasy when all we got was smut.
I'm a fan of suspense, I want to feel that inner "yay!" when the heroine you're rooting for finally sleeps with that guy you just wish was real.
It makes me think that the novel started off as either a ghost-hunter novel or a fairy-whatever novel and she merged one idea with another when the world building didn't leave enough conflict for a real story.The characters aren't particularly well-developed, especially the love interests.
Blah, I hope he's lying or it's just so boring.I didn't think the romance in Mead's YA series was well developed and this book is more of the same.
Overall this book does people who are into bondage a disservice by lacing it up with a weird mental rape.There were a lot of interesting things that could've been explored.
One of the things I appreciate in the over-crowded world of urban fantasy is when an author makes an attempt to build a world with interesting and unique creatures.
While reading, I thought that Eugenie’s ability to sense water would certainly come in handy in the desert if she lost her camel, but I wasn’t sure what else it would be good for.
I became disenchanted with the character of Kiyo as the book progressed.
I loved how Dorian wouldn’t let Eugenie have her way in the end and made her tell him exactly what she wanted.
This is also the day she starts having to fend off all types of sexual advances, some more civil then others, weird incidents, and even attacks on her life, all seemingly originating in the Otherworld with the Fae, or Gentry, as they are called here...
There are some cool characters in this, starting with three spirits, two of whom are bound to E and one suffers from depression, while the other constantly plans of new and gruesome ways to kill her and ravels in telling her exactly how:):):) Couple of gorgeous dudes, one a Fox, the other a King with a sexual bondage obsession, and a very entertaining pseudo-American Indian, who steals every scene he is in!
Not a bad start for a new series!While I can't say this book was "wow!!", it was good enough to make me really curious about the next one.I like the world builder and I love the fact that it's fast-paced.Dunno what to say about the main char yet, but she has potential. Let's see how this goes!
More fantasy, more characters, more worlds, and WAY hot fae, humans, and shifters (kitsune).Eugenie, Odile, Dark Swan...she's all these, and now she's about to find out that she's also so much more she never knew.
What she finds instead is a legacy she never knew about, the guy she recently slept with isn't totally human, and one of the fae kings is into bondage...and Eugenie!
"Storm Born" and Eugenie's story is one of the best new urban fantasy/romance/paranormal stories I've read in quite a while.
I'll keep reading Richelle Mead's succubus stories, but if the next book is anything like one, this new series is destined for my keeper shelf.
Meet Eugenie Markham aka Odile Dark Swan, a powerful shaman who protects the human world from Fay, spirits and other Otherworldly creatures.
Due to a series of unfortunate incidents, attacks for her life, a conspiracy and indecent proposals from just about every male Fay creature, Eugenie finds out some pretty interesting things about herself.
The new revelations in her life and the shifts of friend and foe, force Eugenie to realize that the world is not as black and white as she always thought it was.Storm Born is the first of the Dark Swan series and it is very promising.
There was a lot of chemistry and passion between the heroine and one of her potential love interests and I really liked them together although most readers disagree with me.5.
There were tons of fights as the heroine battles with someone daily, but the story just doesn't move forward at all.
It was only after the heroine learned of the prophecy and her role in it that the pace and plot picked up.Had not all readers tried to convince me that the second book is much much better than this one, the series would have ended here for me.
And the big-evil-father is so obvious, I dare people to say they did not see that one coming.Kyio?
First guy to get inside Eugenie's pants only about 10% into the book.
Not to mention Maiwenn, Kyio's ex, who's obviously some secret evil woman, and I don't have the patience to read an entire series to get that proven to me.Dorian?
I find him more interesting than Kyio, but not enough to finish the book, let alone the series.And what's all that let's-rape-her thing?
It's so annoying, I just don't feel any more sympathy for Eugenie anymore.I'm forever spoiled by the likes of Jeaniene Frost and Ilona Andrews.
When wondering how many stars to give this book I wanted to give it 4 stars.
Then I thought about a couple of real (here comes the snob bit) 'quality' books that I have also awarded 4 stars.
How do we measure a book's worth.
I think for me, I measure within a genre as well as by how involved or entertained I am.
Sometimes you want a gourmet meal while another time a granola bar will hit the spot.I really liked this book.
Fun fun fun! I love Vampire Academy but I haven't been able to get into the Georgina Kincaid books as much, so it's great to find that this series is so entertaining. Eugenie, like all of Richelle Mead's heroines, is a kick-ass character and both Kiyo and Dorian are appealing in different ways. Some great action scenes, in both the battle field and the bedroom. Looking forward to starting Thorn Queen.
I friggin' loved that this UF had a kitsune! How cool is that?I love Richelle Mead -- her Vampire Academy and Bloodlines series are two of my absolute favorite YAs and UFs... so it's about time I got around to starting her adult series. :P
It also has a very sexy fairy king who is very good at tying complicated knots.
Add in a prophecy about the heroine's unborn and unconceived child, and a shapeshifting fox, and you have a very fun read.Eugenie Markham, or Odile Dark Swan is a shaman who banishes spirits and fey from our world.
There, she discovers that she is part of a prophecy where her child will destroy our world.
Eugenie discovers her roots and learns to use her powers with the help of Dorian, the fairy king.
While his spirit is bound to Eugenie, he must do her bidding.
This is a decent start to a series.
I listened to the audio and the narration is decent.I may just be all Meaded out as I just finished the Georgina Kincaid and Vampire Academy series.
I do like how she pushes boundaries with her female characters.
Mead's adult female characters are not chaste and have no regrets about that.
This Mead theme is definitely refreshing in the urban fantasy/paranormal genre.
I likely will read #2 eventually.Favorite line in the book (or one of them, Mead is good with one liners): "I needed tequila and def leopard in copious amounts and fast."
Even though it took me a while to read this book, with other books coming out and all the trips I've been going on, it was amazing. I am a HUGE Vampire Academy fan, so when I went to Borders to get a few new books I wanted to read Richelle Mead's Succubus Blues series. Unfortunately, they were out of stock of the first installment, so I went with the Dark Swan series instead!
The main character is Eugenie and she basically uses magic to banish creatures such as the fae or other creatures that are causing problems for humans.
I kept pulling for Kiyo, but I liked Dorian as well.
Kiyo also has elements of his past that are chasing him, and for all his and Eugenie's talk of honesty, they both end up keeping big things from the other, and it blows up in their faces.
There were a few things that I realized just before they happened and it was just as impactful, maybe even more so because like Eugenie, I didn't really expect it.
The opening few pages quickly sucked me into Eugenie's life as a Shaman with humour and combat as she fights to banish a spirit from a haunted running shoe!
This book is full of action and for the most part the plot is fast-paced and when one fight ends another one begins or passion ensues with one or the other of her lovers.
The only criticism I have is that the romance between Eugenie and Kiro occured too quickly.
Strong female lead, magical lands, sexy and a plot that twists and turns until the very end, leaving you longing for more.
I was just irritated from start to finish with this book, and the source: Eugenie Markham.
Throughout the whole book, I just kept thinking something along the lines of, "Wow, Eugenie is really a bitch." I don't even know where to start with what I didn't like about her, so suffice it to say that I didn't.I actually liked the idea of the book, but Eugenie as the narrator diminished that small flame of hope I had for it to get better as the book went on.
The only thing that saved this from being a one star book was the fact that I actually did like Kiyo, Dorian, and Tim.
There was a lack of plot because it's like Mead got every PNR cliché and threw it all together in one book— there was no climax, there wasn't even a motive for Eugenie to achieve, and no proper plot.
She was exactly like Rose but surprisingly, more tolerable— I'm not surprised that all of Mead's heroines are pretty much the same and cannot differentiate between them.
Without his character, this book would have gotten no rating at all for it's shitiness.
This book is just sex personified...
It's like sex...
What drew me to this book was not only because it was a title by Richelle Mead, but because the back cover of the story read to be incredibly enthralling, you've got a shaman with magical powers and a Glock, fairy kings, a shapeshifter, what's not to like?It turns out that the book is not what it seems on the surface.
Despite all of this, her other partner is the fairy king Dorian which she also has sex with in the book, and it seems like she alternates between the two with no mystery or tension for the reader whatsoever.
Here is the list of unnecessary things in this book(in no particular order):1.
Hot main character who I don't think is hot2.
Having sex with two different guys on every 70-100 pages5.
Idiotic main character6.
As you can see,my two biggest concerns were with Eugenie and her wild sex life.
You would be surprised how many supernatural creatures want her.
Even though Georgina was a succubus and had to have sex at least she was a fun character while Eugenie is not that interesting.
The only thing I did enjoy about this book is Volusian.
