https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/653651.Nights_at_the_Circus
Book Circle Read 15The Publisher Says: Is Sophie Fevvers, toast of Europe's capitals, part swan...or all fake?Courted by the Prince of Wales and painted by Toulouse-Lautrec, she is an aerialiste extraordinaire and star of Colonel Kearney's circus.
Now she's a six-two, winged sensation with only a nodding acquaintance with reality, since she's always lived outside its dreary confines in the bordello, which she helped burn down, and then with Col. Kearney's circus, where she's the star attraction.The novel takes us from London to Petersburg and points east at the tail end of the 19th century.
Reviewed in September 2012There are many aspects of the bizarre world of this book that I admire even though it took me a while to get hooked by the story.
She implies that since we don't know everything about the mysteries of the natural world, a lot of things are possibly possible.
So, all in all, reading Nights at the Circus turned out to be a satisfying and rewarding experience but I couldn’t help wondering if Lizzie’s famous handbag, with which she’d conjured many a mysterious feat, didn’t contain the iPhone 5....................................................Edit: I wrote this back in 2012 when the 'magical' iPhone 5 was still a...mystery.
Angela Carter's world is, as always, a dirty, earthy, erotic, yet soaringly ethereal place to spend one's time.
Carter makes me feel the pain of and rejoice in the awesomeness of being a woman all at once, and I really connect to her outlook on feminist identity, relations between the sexes, and what is and what is not nonsense when it comes to living up to what one is could be or is "supposed" to be.
And Carter seems to just glory in this dichotomy over and over again, to its bitter, ridiculous, painfully lovely end.Yeah...
I just adore Angela Carter.

Prose - 5 Awesome and fascinating. If only I actually cared about what she was saying.Story - 3 Strangely less interesting than one would expect winged Victorian harlots to be.Characters - 2 Em. Kudos for originality & development, but aside from me caring not a jot about them they had a strangely constructed feel. Aside from being extremely impressed by Carter's writing I didn't care for the book, but I'm definitely willing to try something else of hers.
The scary clown trope is vividly, terrifyingly explored.I was amused and impressed by Carter's treatment of the black characters, Madame Schreck's servant Toussaint and 'the Princess'.
Carter seems to be humorously castigating the poor representation of black people in white literature, since she exaggerates their silencing to the point of absurdity - Toussaint has been 'born without a mouth'!
The Princess voluntarily refuses to speak, since black women cannot trust white women (ie Carter, the author) to represent them.
Perhaps the most developed, ubiquitous theme here is mutual support and care between women, and, apart from that between Fevvers and her informally adoptive mother Liz, the relationship between abuse-survivor Mignon and 'the Princess' is the most touching for me.
I'd been expecting good things from this book, as everyone always tells me how wonderful Angela Carter is, and it certainly delivered!
It's a surreal, earthy kind of book, divided into three distinct parts, which largely focus on the introduction of Fevvers (the fabulous cockney winged woman), the days at the circus, and the wilds of Siberia.
Hey, I did warn you it was surreal!
It's a weird, wonderful world that Carter conjures up, but a joy to immerse yourself in!
Definitely a must-read...I've no doubt I'll be revisiting this book in the future!
It starts off in a mundane enough setting, in the dressing room of a famous aerialiste (or trapeze artist, in common English), Sophie Fevvers, where she, in the company of her foster mother Lizzie, is being interviewed by the young journalist Jack Walser, in the waning days of the nineteenth century.
In the frozen wastes, the narrative takes dizzying turns until the denouement at the turn of the twentieth century.***Angela Carter writes lush prose, and her characters are all symbols for something which she tries to say - the only thing is, we are never able to put our finger on it, quite.

Did I say this book is good?
This book is good!From the start you wonder if her story really is true when she claims to have been hatched but soon you realize there is something strange going on.
Like the reporter, Jack Walser you could swear that you've been listening all night until the clock strikes twelve and you're glad that you have all night to hear more although you swear more time has passed.Once real time seems to catch up you're hooked and ready to go off and join the circus just like Jack and then the story begins in earnest.
Update - A story about stories and illusion.Magic and reading have something in common. It’s that thin wedge that question of what is real and what is fantasy. We know that the magician is doing some trick, but we just can’t get it, can’t figure it out. With books, good ones at least, the trick is the writing taking you someplace else. Books aren’t the only thing that can do this – a good movie, painting, music.  It’s this line between reality and fantasy that Carter explores in this novel about
It’s that thin wedge that question of what is real and what is fantasy.
With books, good ones at least, the trick is the writing taking you someplace else.
It’s this line between reality and fantasy that Carter explores in this novel about a circus performer who may actually have real wings.
At first glance it seems as if Fevvers is the only character with this problem, but every character in the book comes into contact with this question.
It might not be the wings that Fevvers has, but the question of reality and fantasy is one we change and fight in some way every day.
E, tako su i ovde prevodilac i lektor otišli na vinjak, a posao je završio onaj mali, što radi u knjigoveznici, jer mu je bilo žao da knjiga ostane nedovršena.Knjiga kao knjiga, ne znam šta da kažem, budući da nisam naročiti fan magijskog realizma, a.k.a. uštogljenog mlađeg brata prostodušne fantastike, ali recimo da je poslednja trećina romana, koja se odvija u Sibiru, negde izletela sa šina baš kao i voz kojim se cirkuska družina vozila Транссиб-om.
After ‘The Bell Jar’ I knew that time had come.‘Nights at the Circus’ is about Fevvers (as in ‘Feathers’ spelled cockney), a statuesque grotesque of a woman whose literal claim to fame rests in the functional wings growing out of her back.
It’s not as interesting as it sounds.I wrestled with my feelings on this book for a long time.
It took some time to build to this, but I’m just going to have to admit it; I did not like this book very much.I ought to.
“I am not just a book!” proclaims ‘Nights at the Circus,’ “I am a discourse between author and reader!” This is too much pressure for me.
"«Pensar que te intrujei mesmo, a sério!,» deleitou-se. «Isto só serve para provar que não há nada como a confiança.»"Uma trapezista alada com quase dois metros de altura; um jornalista a fazer de palhaço; uma prostituta com ideias revolucionárias; uma porca pequenina que adivinha o futuro; uma domadora de tigres que se apaixona por uma cantora que valsa com tigres; um homem sem boca; um macaco professor.Uma assassina que aprisiona outras mulheres que, como ela, mataram os maridos.E mais umas quantas personagens excêntricas, protagonistas de fantásticas peripécias circenses.
There's a bit towards the end which seems to suggest that Fevvers requires a certain other-gaze to hold her identity together that may seem regressive, but it seems instead that Carter ultimately sees even pure-self creation as limiting without the more holistic opening-up of allowing oneself to truly touch and be touched by another, a mutual act that breaks through all veneers and constructed narrative, opening up the truly revolutionary possibility incipient within every incidLike all epics, this is filled with digressions and asides not strictly essential to the prime trajectory, which might at times bog down, might seem to be unnecessary.
'“The child’s laughter is pure until he first laughs at a clown.”' In 2012, the 'Best of James Tait Black' culled together its tributes from the past near-century, and declared Angela Carter's novel, Nights at the Circus, the best fiction novel out of its history of winners - and therefore, as the novel of the century. Wonderfully fitting for a novel which masks itself on the chaotic cusp of the twentieth-century, where time begins to fall into a state of gaudy entropy; thus Nights at the Circu
Wonderfully fitting for a novel which masks itself on the chaotic cusp of the twentieth-century, where time begins to fall into a state of gaudy entropy; thus Nights at the Circus reworks that elemental energy into prose that is richly dark, both sweeping like velvet and luxuriously dirty.
Right from the first line when we are introduced to Fevvers, the fin de siecle Cockney Venus, 'aerialiste extraordinare' and extraordinarily part swan and part woman [or is she?], with her 'voice that clanged like dustbin lids', the novel promises a journey of Rabelaisian carnivalesque proportions, of traipsing through the wild nights of London, St Petersburg and Siberia.
There's an eccentric tone of fantasy, an unabashed outlandishness and roguish word-play; there's a thread of challenge running through the narrative, sometimes cleverly concealed and sometimes out in front like so much gaudy embroidery.
Carter is a master storyteller with a remarkable gift for language and a willingness to take risks on any front.But all of the above I already knew from my introduction to Carter, her short story "The Loves of Lady Purple" (check it out in 
).Nights at the Circus goes beyond the expectations set by "The Loves of Lady Purple".
Usually, plots like this, including those in science fiction, would be too heavy a task for me to appreciate because I have this little devil inside my ear who, as I read, continuously whispers to me not true, invented, can't ever happen, just pulling your leg, you're wasting your time, better read others, etc.Add to these is the fact that this novel has no heroes, only this winged 'aerialiste' and her coterie of equally memorable and heroic female characters.
For only great writers could describe an improbable creature, a 6-foot-2 woman with wings, who can hover at short diatances, and make me believe, despite the whispering devil in my ears, that she's describing something she had actually seen and not merely conjured.
Since I had gotten past page 50 (every book gets a 50 page chance from me) due to the book's, at times, lyrical and surreal beauty, I felt violated by so much ugliness in the book's second half.
Sometimes I wish Angela Carter wouldn't subject her readers to passages like this one: "Third place, how will you recognize "perfection" when you see it?
At times it was full of hauntingly beautiful imagery and lyricism, but at other times it was just poorly written.
I am generously giving it two stars because I was able to finish it--no small feat.
She is a tall, statuesque aerieliste with a penchant for spouting earthy, no-nonsense wisdom in her delightful Cockney accent.We first encounter Fevvers as she is being interviewed by Jack Walser, an American journalist.
She claims to have been hatched from an egg; abandoned; raised in a brothel by Lizzie, her surrogate mother and constant companion; sprouts wings; learns to fly; and joins Colonel Kearney’s circus to become the talk of Europe with her dazzling skills on the trapeze.
What follows is a rollicking ride from one bizarre event to another, parts of which are told in Fevvers’ raunchy dialog infused with feminism and a gritty, down-to-earth perspective.Angela Carter takes the reader on a magical carpet ride.
For me it was, more than anything else, a case of words versus images.Somewhere in the first twenty pages, our heroine after so enchantingly delighting the audience to her performance, does an act-an act that would've been so ghastly indecent to the typical Victorian.
After a taste of her as an image, an icon, "the aerialiste", the reader should not forget her body, her belches, her farts, food on lips like the fervent drippings of her primal gluttony.
:(I mean, the tale is fantastic, in all senses of the word.
And all the sub-plots are excellent, rich with detail, fantastical sure, but totally in line with everything else of the tale.
And then, at the end, at the last page, where Fevvers roars with laughter at a question by Jack and essentially says "haha, fooled you!", I feel like I missed something.And I'm not going back to reread the book to figure it out.So I'm left, let down, mildly disappointed, and what a way to finish an otherwise delightfully imaginative tale.Bummer.
Recensione sul canale : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yrlKh...
The whole clock that strikes midnight continuously, the speculations about the wings being "fake" all fits into the world of the brothels, houses of horror and circuses and creates this fantastical almost-realist picture (which of course eventually Carter stunningly rips to shreds, leaving the reader feeling suddenly naked...that is a warning rather than a spoiler).Even though Walser is truly the protagonist the remarkable Fevvers is everything I ever wanted in a heroine- she is working class (and as classy as any experienced working-girl), loud, large (in all dimensions) gluttonous, avaricious, lusty (perhaps), opinionated, stubborn and "equipped by nature for woman-on-top" (according to the closing pages of the novel).
It has many spectacular scenes and Carter's usual surrealism.
It plays itself out like a fabulous carnival.I've enjoyed other works of Angela Carter: The Magic Toyshop, The Bloody Chamber and Other Stories, and Burning Your Boats.
Maybe I can't imaginatively sustain Carter's wild surrealism for a full-length novel.
But despite some wonderful moments in the story of Sophie Fevvers' trapeze fame as a woman with full-size wings and the question of whether she is a miracle or a fraud, the picaresque adventures of Sophie along with undercover reporter Jack Walsser that take the reader on a wild ride through the bordellos of London, the theaters of Europe and ultimately (and strangely) the wilds of Siberia, trying to discover the truth of what Sophie is, I frequently lost all interest.
I feel like I should've read this before reading either 'The Night Circus' or 'Mechanique' - and I feel like now I've got a better background in surrealist circus fiction.I have to admit, I didn't love this book as much as I loved 'The Night Circus' - but I think it's probably a better work of literature.
There's a lot here to think about; it's rich and complex.On the surface, it's the story of Fevvers - a circus star, a winged woman with a trapeze act, who decides to tell her story - fact or fiction - to the journalist Jack Walser.
In search of a juicy scoop (or possibly following Fevvers), Jack runs away with the circus in the disguise of a clown.

excellent fable of humanity mixing feminism with picaresque adventure. Memorable characters, excellent use of language, humor, adventure, philosophy, militancy, kindness, grotesque tableaux vivants, introspection and ultimately love.Strongly recommended
Meanwhile, rather than creating ‘another love story’ (love being at the heart of her tale) Angela Carter swoops from one madcap adventure to the next, hardly giving you time to process what you have read.
Fevvers’ room is a place of ‘exquisitely feminine squalor’, with ‘a large pair of frilly drawers fallen where they had been light-heartedly tossed’, and a corset poking from a coalscuttle like ‘the pink husk of a giant prawn emerging from its den, trailing long laces like several sets of legs’.
A stale feet smell emanates from ‘a writhing snakes’ nest of silk stockings’; ‘essence of Fevvers’ clogs the room.
Ronald Firbank!
Of course, Ronald Firbank was smart enough to not let it go on for too long.
She had a brisk air of bristle, like a terrier bitch.
The year's green hinge.'""(The tiger) came out of the corridor like orange quicksilver,""'He's living proof that travel don't broaden the mind; instead, it renders a man banal."
