https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/239980.Wilderness_and_the_American_Mind
"Wilderness and the White Male American Mind" would be a more accurate title. The information that was included was highly informative, comprehensive, and interesting, but there were a LOT of voices missing. I definitely recommend this book as a starting place, but you'll need to read a lot more to actually understand the role of wilderness in the American experience.
Come back (or not) later.Nash's book is largely chronological and sets up historic context (it's academic, it's got important end notes, and I've run into Rod's history colleagues over the years).I'm going to skip attempting to summarize the early history for people thinking wilderness in the arts and literature (I think this is a weakness in the book, but not in the literary sense).
The first two groups, conservationists and preservationist, where human-centered (anthropocentric) whereas a newer non-human-centered way of thinking was starting.Here is where Nash and I both diverge and agree over a couple decade period from the end of WWII and early Vietnam War. Nash places great significance with Aldo Leopold (the book is about wilderness after all, not the history of the environmental movement).
This account references Cotton Mather, Nathaniel Hawthorne, James Fennimore Cooper, Mark Twain, Jack London, Gertrude Stein and many others, but the main line of philosophy recognizing value in wilderness runs through Henry David Thoreau, John Muir, Aldo Leopold and Robert Marshall.
In an early, pre-development society, the wilderness represents a significant threat to the well-being of members, and therefore attributes of civilization (e.g. reliable potable water, shelter, food sources, etc.) are highly valued.
As a society develops, civilization tends to pre-dominate, and because a significant number of society members do not have to worry directly about material well-being - and wilderness begins to acquire greater value as "...an intriguing novelty and even a deep spiritual and psychological need." (p 347).
I believed that this book would be an exploration of the concept of "wilderness" as it relates to the American mind.
Were it my book, I would have omitted the chapter about Alaska.
I imagine that most who read this book have a grasp on the environmental struggles of the recent past.As I mentioned before, the reason I read this book was to gain a perspecitve on how these struggles came about.This book is, I suppose, a classic in the field.
I guess, ultimately, it's just a field (environmentalism/ecology) that doesn't interest me that much.
Then you HAVE to read this book.
It’s a good reminder every time I’m made aware that our ideas aren’t our own, that our society’s ideas aren’t the only ones, that whatever current intellectual revolution we find ourselves in, it’s the temporary result of hundreds or thousands of cumulative years of ideas.
And even, it’s all the more apt that it should come from a book on wilderness.“A millennium is almost meaningless geologically; in terms of human history, however, it is an understandable unit of time.”Even when this book tends towards the dry— more academic than passionate— it’s a great look at our changing attitudes and philosophies over the past century and a half.
This will be my reference, and a good one, when I’m reading the passionate books.
Let's face it. I started this book in March. It is January. I have finished aver 50 other books since I started this one. I am not going to finish this book. The topic sounds interesting, but the writing style is too academic for the general reader like myself. It may be a very good academic thesis, but is not the book for me. To be fair I did not rank it.
A good book, but kind of tedious. At times it felt like I was reading the same thing over and over again.
This book also shows how the national parks were developed over time to preserve nature, and how the United States established the first National Park, Yellow Stone National Park.
They were not finding the balance between nature and human development.
It is very hypocritical to have industrialized ones own country while not caring at all for nature and wildlife, and then expecting a poor developing country to do the opposite of what your successful country has done, especially without the proper tools and technology or education.
Island Civilization is where humans control their development, rather than controlling nature.
The book hinges on the core idea that, “wilderness is a state of mind…not so much what wilderness is but what men think it is.” (5)The first few chapters collectively base America’s early perceptions of nature in Old World, Judeo-Christian thought that rests on wilderness as a dark, mysterious place that is the bedrock of evil.
Nash excellently uses an array of interdisciplinary sources to peer into the minds of important American men and how their views shaped popular thought about wilderness, and more foundationally, American identity.
Nash tells the fascinating history of the relationship between non-native (almost entirely white male) people and wilderness, focusing on the United States.
He ends by comparing and connecting the history of the American wilderness to those of many other countries on our planet and ends with far-out picture of how a sophisticated future human society could share Earth with the wilderness.Reading this book greatly increased my appreciation for the existence of our public lands and the challenges facing modern land managers.
This book is clearly a summary of a lifetime of academic study, which comes from a mostly white male perspective of history.
Dang, so good! Really is a definitive history of the conservation movement in America, and even into other parts of the world in this 5th edition. I can't believe the amount of research Nash did, the quotes and citations and footnotes are beyond extensive. I was always a little hesitant to pick this up, thinking it might be sort of a dense, rote history, but it remained enjoyable the entire time and was a joy to read. Glad these words have gone through my brain!
This book is an outstanding resource for the student of American wilderness history up to the 70s.
Keeping in mind this is an older edition, the newer one may be equally useful through the end of the 20th century.
The bibliographical essay at the end alone is worth the purchase.However, the book itself is not particularly inspiring.
It is a great starting point for any research on the topic and I would recommend it to any student of environmental history.
Exceptional. Was a true revelation to me at that time and has informed my opinions on Wilderness and policy ever since.
Hetch Hetchy is probably the least well known story in the history of the environmental movement.
Ever the academician Mr. Nash captures this in its length and breadth; it is perhaps the example of the struggle between preservation on the one hand and government's obligation to the people on the other, but not the only one.The history of the wilderness movement is a lengthy and voluminous one.
As an academic resource Wilderness and the American Mind does its best to capture the scope of that, but it is far from the only one.
In the current political climate, it perhaps feels strange now to think about the fact that 'national parks', as first developed, were an American concept where large tracts of nature are protected with the notion of conservation as their primary purpose.
The idea has been transferred across the globe, and although in many places 'national parks' really bear little resemblance to their American counterparts (in Europe, for example, they are often just large areas of farmland where people live and work, which is quite far from their original conception), but this book made me think about that influence not just on institutions, but on national identity.
I wouldn’t say conceptually timeless but a fascinatingly thorough and accurate description of American attitudes towards perceptions (constructed!) of wilderness and conservation. Incredibly salient towards an understanding of the national psyche of the past and present.
3.75 really
The seminal text on the idea of wilderness as it evolved over time from Western philosophy to modern environmentalism.
This book provides a useful foundation on American environmental history.
As I read Wilderness & the American Mind, I found not only is this answer politically & emotionally charged as say the question of creation versus evolution, but the answer changes depending on where and when you ask it.The book masterfully depicts the dramatic periods of change in the American psyche about nature and wild places.
Roderick Nash has chronicled here the intellectual history of the concept of "wilderness" in the American mind.
From Puritans who feared the wilderness as the God-forsaken realm of the Devil to Transcendentalists who romanticized it as tantamount to communing with God to contemporary (mid-twentieth century at the time) debates between conservationists (utilitarian-minded views of wilderness) and preservationists (preserving pure wilderness for nature's sake), Nash covers a lot of ground and demonstrates the contested nature of wilderness as it contrasts with civilization (sometimes seen as evil, sometimes as divine in comparison but always interesting).
Nash offers the interesting argument that "appreciation of the wilderness began in the cities" (44).
Then, when nature was not feared, but praised, we continued to devastate through tourism and recreation until conservation was needed.
From fear to management and conservation by cause and effect cycles.
It is also pretty much a history of white males and therefore might not be suitable for classes without other readings and materials.
In Nash's defense, I don't know anyone he left out of the American political history relating to the environment that was not white and male.I already knew all the major players described in the book, but the way material is presented is unique and allows for deeper understanding.
I found the strengths of this text lie in Nash's ability to document the historical evolution of the wilderness idea while simultaneously engaging several prominent themes including: man vs.
The latter theme would have been stronger, however, if he had engaged a third parallel, but distinct, evolution of the economic wilderness idea.
Admittedly, Nash does mention that the political weight of the wilderness lies in advocates ability to quantify its benefits to civilization.
A stronger tie between Marxism, natural resource economics, and perhaps capitalism, in general, would have provided a more comprehensive view of the evolution of the wilderness idea.In the end, this was an excellent read, and I would recommend it to anyone studying the relationship between nature and society in the United States.
A really nice history of on the American approach to wilderness from pre-inception to modern times.
Sadly the book totally glosses over the Bureau of Reclamation and it's almost religious ideals of a lush green Utopia in the the American Southwest.
A chapter of American Idealism and History which has had far broader consequences both ideologically and geographically than many of the episodes covered in the book.
All and all a book well worth reading for anybody who wishes to understand not only ecological ideas but American Culture in general.

I was a little disappointed given this book's monumental status.
A more apt title would be "Wilderness and American Attitudes"- Nash's technique is more to survey than to analyze; he rarely delves beneath the surface of what newspapers reported, philosophers wrote, or politicians said during a given period.
This makes for a repetitive read- a word count on "wilderness" and "civilzation" in this book would yield grotesque sums.
The fourth edition adds almost nothing except an Afterword in which Nash paints, in admittedly broad strokes, his vision for a world where civilization is confined to "islands" while the rest of the world is preserved as wilderness.
It's incredible how complicated American attitudes toward wild places have always been, and to see the shifting perspectives, totems, and villains in what is ultimately an intellectual battle over the state of the human soul as humanity grows into something only conceivable philosophically.
Wildness which defined America's early pioneer life and made it a new "Garden of Eden," in the West quickly became a storage facility for resources and an obstacle for the ease of civilized life that must be solved and conquered by might and technology.
Definitely not a juicy read for anyone not thoroughly interested in the topic, but essential otherwise.
I thoroughly recommend the fourth edition, published in 2001, which benefits from the writer's insights into changes in environmental policy and the changing perceptions of wilderness and wildness since the first appearance of this book in 1967.
In other words, this is a marvelous historiography of American society and its evolving notion of wilderness.
While pretty dense, and a bit intimidating for recreational reading (i.e., small font, many footnotes on each page, and a detailed bibliograpny at the end), the book is beautifully written.
In my estimation, it's just as relevant in 2010 as it was in the early, heady days of the U.S. environmental movement.
Pretty fascinating look at how thought concerning wilderness has changed in the U.S. since pioneers first set out to conquer it. Nash focuses on a few intellectual leaders as catalysts for changing attitudes and I especially enjoyed reading about early 20th century efforts to begin protecting wilderness areas in a significant way.Additional chapters in this edition concerning Alaska and the International perspective started to strain my interest, but the chapter titled "The Irony of Victory" was a telling portrayal of the consequences of wilderness appreciation of the last few generations. Much recommended, check it out!
This is an excellent survey of the history of the concept of wilderness in America.
Originally published in 1967, the latest edition contains four additional chapters.
The even-handed treatment of the topic has made this a classic of its genre, and its themes and lessons resonate through time.
Our current debates about global warming and oil exploration echo the many (seemingly) forgotten political battles of the past, laid out here in lucid detail.
Noticeably absent, however, is any discussion of aquatic wilderness.
Even so, this is an essential book for anyone interested in environmentalism or the ceaseless efforts of industry to develop and/or harvest America's natural treasures.
