https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2331681.Keeper_of_the_Keys
Not a first by any means in this old-fashioned series, Chan will also facilitate a budding romance.As Charlie travels by train through the snow-clad mountains all the pieces for mystery and murder are put in place because the passenger list includes the ex-husbands of singer Ellen Landini.
Everywhere Charlie turns points toward China, which will lead our favorite Hawaiian detective to do the unthinkable.Reporter Bill Rankin from an earlier entry, Behind that Curtain, makes a welcome appearance in Keeper of the Keys.
Over the years the Charlie Chan character has not held up in terms of being a positive image.
He's an astute observer of the human condition, a humane and compassionate soul, and (in my opinion) can rival a Sherlock Holmes in solving a complex homicide or two.I think you should read the book.
With that in mind, I think you'll discover Charlie Chan and Earl Derr Biggers were pioneers in the field of racial equality long before the concept became popular.And oh, by the way .
the book itself is a nice little mystery filled with interesting characters.
In this offering, Chan is invited to Lake Tahoe to help find the missing possible son of his client.
You know upon opening a Charlie Chan mystery that you will get a relatively gore-free murder, a cast of intriguing characters both good and bad, red herrings galore, a spunky female (and a lovelorn male longing to woo her), and a slew of wise and funny sayings from the Buddha-like Chan.It is a real loss to detective fiction that writer Earl Derr Biggers died just one year following the pulication of this novel in 1932.
The last in the series (a short series) of the famous Charlie Chan mysteries. An interesting mystery that has the extra element of a Chinese servant in an American household butting heads with Chan. The mystery is great, but the element of watching two individuals with Chinese backgrounds coming to the US and deciding how to embrace (or not embrace) American culture. Well worth the read.
Alas! I have come to the end of the Charlie Chan mystery novels. Charlie has come to feel like a good friend. He is bright, modest, quick, clever, and very human. This book is every bit as good as its predecessors. Plenty of potential suspects. Lots of hints and allusions. A final twist at the end.I wish Charlie good fortune in his home on Punchbowl Hill.
Reread.
Unlike the film version of Charlie Chan, who traveled the world from Shanghai to Europe, the Charlie Chan of Earl Derr Biggers' novels only made it to Hawaii and California--with a ship ride in between the two.
And the two settings in rural California turned out to be the least effective for his mysteries, especially this last novel set on Lake Tahoe.Charlie seems tired in this book.
And so's I reckon I hear'ed jes' 'bout a'neff of that ther'n Sam Holt feller.
I reckon.Still, I would have liked to see more novels.
But then Marquand's Mr. Moto series is not just about a mystery.
I heard about this book from the Classic Mysteries podcast. I have not read a Charlie Chan mystery before and this one was pretty interesting, even if it took me awhile to wade through. The description of Chan being invited to a gathering is a good one. He seems to be about the only person there who wasn't at one point married or involved with Ellen Landini, a favorite opera singer. When she turns up dead, there is no shortage of suspects. It is up to Charlie to figure our who the killer among the exes is.
Charlie Chan is asked to a rich San Franciscan's mansion on Lake Tahoe, where he encounters winter for the first time in his life. He also encounters his host, the first husband of famous opera star Ellen Landini. Landini's other three husbands are also there, including the one she's visiting Reno to divorce. When the diva herself appears, tempers fray, and the rest of the party finds a dead body. Chan joins forces with the local sheriff, a young man who has succeeded his now-blind father, who held the post for many years.
Inspector Charlie Chan discovers snow in the Sierra Nevada mountains of California. Brought in to find the long lost son of his host, he instead is asked to help the young, inexperienced local sheriff solve the murder of his host's ex-wife. With three ex-husbands, a future husband and his sister, and a faithful long-time servant, there are plenty of suspects on hand. Charlie solves the mystery with his characteristic wit and astute reasoning.
very clever Charlie Chan plot
È il secondo che leggo di Derr Biggers, e non delude.Un ottimo giallo alla Christie, alla Van Dine.Ci si accompagna volentieri con la saggezza di Charlie Chan.
Non certo la denuncia antizarista sapendo come il “rivoluzionario” Fedor si fosse trasformato in un avversario implacabile dell’uomo nuovo russo.Piuttosto mi aspettavo un percorso simile a quello di Raskolnicov in Siberia: una rinascita spirituale dopo il trauma di essere stato catapultato in quel mondo abitato da scarti umani.“Come avrei potuto immaginare - scrive il suo alterego, il narratore interno - quale spaventosa tortura sarebbe stato il non potermi mai trovar solo, neppure per un momento, nel corso dei dieci anni d’ergastolo a cui ero condannato?
Much better than many of the movies would lead you to believe.
A Charlie Chan mystery. Not too long or short. Plots develops well. I actually figured out “who done it” before author reveals it (though not by much). Fun to read.
But Chan must hurry, for he sees suspicion falling on the wrong party.Earl Derr Biggers visited Hawaii in 1919, where he conceived the idea of setting a murder mystery in Honolulu.
Cohan, no less!) to much success.In addition to his trip, Biggers was further inspired by a newspaper article he read a few years later, profiling a pair of Honolulu police detectives of Chinese origin, Chang Apana and Lee Fook.
Thus, Biggers introduced a Chinese-American police detective named Charlie Chan in a supporting role in the 1925 novel "The House Without a Key".
nothing like the movies...but Excellent period pieces.
(Two of them were especially memorable for me, and I have no doubt that we would have been seeing them again in a future offering had the series continued.)My sole complaint with this one is the last-minute introduction of a personality trait in a key character that we had not seen before.
That said, the resolution is a good one, and the theme of loyalty is nicely developed.When the Charlie Chan novels are especially strong, I find myself racing back to them to learn what will happen next.
Those in the know stated that he had every intention of continuing the Charlie Chan series and, indeed, there no scene in this one of him riding into the sunset to indicate otherwise.
This is the last of the Charlie Chan books, and a fine one it is.
Charlie is invited by a rich man to his house on Lake Tahoe.
Also invited to the house are the diva's three other ex-husbands as well as her designated #5, once her Reno divorce on #4 becomes final.
I don't know if Earl Derr Biggers had plans to continue with Charlie's adventures, but unfortunately, he died shortly after this book was published.
This book is a fine one on which to end the Chan series, still well plotted and well written.
After hearing his former wife, opera singer Ellen Landini, may have been pregnant when she left him, Dudley Ward is determined to find his son.
He invites Charlie Chan along with Ellen's three later husbands to his large house on Lake Tahoe.
Ellen soon shows up with her current flame and his sister.
When Ellen is found shot dead on the balcony just as another flame is arriving by plane to take her home, there are many suspects.
They include the four ex-husbands, the new boyfriend and his sister, and the staff.
The local sheriff Don Holt and Charlie work together to solve the crime.
Early 1930s murder mystery set at Lake Tahoe with too many clues and too many suspects without alibies. Inspector Chan patiently sorts through them to find the murderer. Interesting tension between the Americanized Chan and a Chinese servant who has resisted Americanization. The Inspector uses a scientific technique that the author describes as being still experimental, which technique now appears in many police procedural novels and TV shows.
This is the last Chan book written (#6) and it is a good tale. Populated with an assortment of characters and many possible suspects, the complex story had you second guessing til the end. The story and dialog stood up well even though it was written in 1932. The setting was at rustic Lake Tahoe. The last of the series, I found this in a little bookshop in Burlington, VT. I believe there are a couple I may have missed, so I am still on the search!
The last Charlie Chan.. and my least favorite. But still a fun book to read. Charlie is faced with several hard decisions and seems to take forever to solve this one. Read all five Chan books in a row, maybe not the best way to go as you start to see the similar plot line. But again a fun read for over the summer.
Wonderful mystery novel. I picked up the book at a used book store in San Fransisco and took home to Lake Tahoe. I was pleasantly surprised about all of the local details, but was even more surpized about the wonderful mystery crafted by the author. This may be the last Charlie Chan book, but it has encouraged me to read the others as well.
read some time in 1980
Have read several times over the years. Never tire of the oldies but goodies.
5 stars for the puzzle, 3 to 4 stars for the rest. A fun retro read, and the puzzle kept me involved and guessing (always wrong, of course) until the very end.
Nice detective story from the early 1930s. Nicely written with a lot of great dialogues.
The last, and definitely the best, of the Charlie Chan mysteries. A satisfying mystery with somewhat of a surprise ending.
A Perfect puzzle. I'll probably restart this series from the beginning.
