https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30166.The_Maze
After your horrid first book in this series, The Cove, the only reason I decided to give this one a shot is because I love the woman who reads the audio version, Susan Ericksen (she does a fantastic job on the Eve Dallas series by J.D. Robb).
No FBI agency has solved more serial murders as fast as the ones in this book.
Along with that, just like your previous book, the FBI agent and victim/FBI agent fall in love and get married.
Make a decision.I refuse to read any more of your awful books.Sincerely,Not a fan.
I can't tell you how many times I have read this book.
I love the author of this FBI series.
Each book in this series is a stand-alone, so you can read them out of order.
Her goals in life changed.
Her only goal was joining the FBI, so she could find the man that took her sister’s life.
Being a part of Savich’s unit gave her access to databases she needed in order to search and take down the string killer.
I loved the action, suspense, and romance in this book.
Very enjoyable read! Savich and Sherlock are introduced in this book and their actions keep you turning pages to the end
The Maze2 StarsAfter reading and disliking the first book in this series, I decided not continue.
The story development is ridiculous and contrived, the writing and dialogue are atrocious and the characterization is just plain weird.
The secondary cast is moronic from the smarmy brother-in-law and his rabid new wife to the jealous ex-girlfriend and the pitifully clichéd villain - all are painfully one dimensional and add nothing to the story aside from a number of absurd and perhaps even comic situations that I doubt the author was striving for.
If you want a riveting FBI focused book, read that one instead.
This is the third book I have read by Catherine Coulter and the second in the series.
The problem I have had with Ms. Coulter's first two books is she tries to get too cute with her writing by injecting comments that in normal life wouldn't happen.
I believe it actually slows down the flow of the book, as I had to stop and re-read, then think did they really say that??
Then decide if you want to go read the first two books in the series or move to the 4th.

Dillon Savich and Lacey Sherlock meet for the first time in this book. She's just completed her training and begins working for him.I found the story to be interesting and fast paced, the romance to be tension-filled and compelling, and the mystery to be suspenseful. I highly recommend the book and am on to the next in the series.
The FBI dream team has done it again. However, this one focuses on their initial meet & greet and how things rapidly progressed from there. Lacy S and her deranged family are the primary focus throughout this brain teaser. I'll finish the review shortly....gotta run.
But around the 2/3 point of the book, it seemed like the author became tired of writing the book and took short cuts, gave in to the lower nature of adolescent sensationalism, for lack of a better way to say it.
This is just one fine example of 8th grade, hurry and get this book done so I can watch TV, type of writing that characterizes this story.
Arent I now amazed to see that Ms. Coulter has several other similar looking and sounding books for me to now choose from.
Life is too short to be amazed at how poorly a good story is executed.
She enlists the help of her supervisor, Dillon Savich, to catch the fiend.Catherine Coulter has done it again with "The Maze." As in her other novels, she wows the readers with her twists and turns; ups and downs; along with the art of "pointing the finger" at other characters in her work.However, she loses that little push that she has had in her other books.
There was a pause towards the end in which she should of put a twist or a turn into the story.I still recommend Catherine Coulter's "The Maze" as a good book to read.
I think the author did a good job, although it was just too long and some parts could have been cut so the suspense would be thighter and no t so all over the place.Lacey Sherlock has had her life turned upside down when she was only 19, when her sister was brutally murdered by a serial killer.
She lived in fear for a time, and one day she decided to change and get justice for her sister.
Dillon is also Lacey's new boss.I think Coulter leaned heavily on the suspense and policial aspect until 60% of the book, and then went with drama and romance.
It's been seven years since a serial killer murdered her half-sister and threw her life into turmoil.
And in those seven years, Lacey has managed to get a B.S. in Forensic Science, a master's in Criminal Psychology, and a job at the FBI.
So when the "String Killer" strikes again, she's on the first plane to Boston to investigate, regardless of what her boss might have to say about things.
Still, I find myself irritated that the library doesn't have the third book in the series.
=) Definitely a guilty pleasure book.
I loved a good romantIc suspense.
I loved the story.
It is about Lacey Sherlock who goes on to be an FBI agent.
Her reasons for becoming an agent are revealed when she becomes assigned to work under Savich.
This begins a friendship turned romance between the two.
All the while Sherlock and Savich become closer and find out Lacey' s secret connections to the main criminal they are after.
Their is not a lot of romance or sex written between the two but it is a brief couple of sex scenes.
I love Sherlock and Savich. I beleive this is the best book in the detectives' series. Your learn about Sherlock's background and how she comes to meet Savich.
If you are looking for a little mystery and lots of romance, this is your book/series!! I often get in the mood for something light that I don't have to pay close attention to, this book was perfect for that.FBI Special Agent Dillon Savich teams up with new agent Lacey Sherlock in a case that leads them back to the murder of Sherlock's sister seven years ago-and put both their lives on the line.
This review is in reference to the audio book version.The Maze started out so well that I actually began to look forward to reading/listening to the other FBI books that Catherine Coulter has written.
And, then there are some minor inconsistencies that should have been caught: Dillon's voice being a tenor and then being a baritone.
After enjoying the initial build up and I do mean excitedly enjoying it because I thought I'd found a wonderful series much like the Stephanie Plum series, I felt let down and amazed how the novel continued to drone on when it should have ended chapters ago.
I skipped The Cove and went right to The Maze and, based on the reviews so far, I'm glad I did but it only helped me a little.
I've tried to read Coulter before with no success and after this I'm not likely to try again.
It's not that this book was bad, there were parts that I enjoyed, but it was like a soap opera set in a nuthouse!
The romance was this book's only saving grace and that's mainly because I'm used to Coulter's (historical) heroes forcing themselves on the heroine so Dillon got huge bonus marks for not being a bastard but he wasn't enough to convince me to read more.
Lacey Sherlock may have just finished training to be part of the FBI but she has been on this case every since her sister was murdered 7 years ago.
After seeing her performance at a training excercise, he gave her a option to join his newly created Criminal Apprehension Unit.
He's the boss but she seems to have all the answers.The love story involved in this one is not as hot as it could have been but the mystery is good.
Gotta love how Jimmy Maitland , the big boss, closes the case and leaves everyone including me laughing out loud.

The Maze focuses on Dillon Savich who made an appearance in The Cove.
Once again, Ms. Coulter has given us a great mystery.
While I did have part of the mystery figured out early one, I did no figure out the twist at the end.
The chemistry between Dillon and "Sherlock" was great!
I also have to wonder at the Bureau chief being OK with them having a relationship when Dillon is Sherlock's boss.
There is also an appearance of characters from The Cove.
It is always nice to catch up with previous characters.
Anyway, this is a great sequel to the first.
I liked it but I didn't love it.
The story itself wasn't bad, but Coulter's writing style bugs the mess out of me.
Her plot is all over the place and doesn't seem very focused at all.
Her dialogue is monstrously terrible and took me out of the story so many times.
I wouldn't mind reading more about Savich and Sherlock, but I'm not sure I can sift through another frantic story.
It stinks because I am sort of glomming romantic suspense right now, and I wanted to like this one so much.
Maybe the books get better later in the series?
I have now read three of the FBI files books.
I read one later in the series (Whiplash- which was an ok read- but slightly stilted and nothing exciting).
So I decide to start at the beginning of the series and work up.
I have made it through book two and can't take anymore.
The plots are formulaic, the characters are either cardboard or stereotypes.
I can tell that the characters develop over time, that is across books, but it is not worth the effort to get to the tenth or twelfth book to finally start really liking the main actors.
I really liked the little we saw of Dillon in the first book, but in this one he didn't come off as good, just weird.
Lacey was weird too, which seemed to be the theme of the book for me and it wasn't a good weird.
The story was pretty predictable and boring in the middle.
But for some reason I had to keep reading.
I think the best part of the book was when Miss Lily, Marvin, and the bartender showed up in the story.
There parts bring in such funny antics that you can't help but to love them.
It took me awhile to get into this novel.
This is the second Coulter novel I've read, and I enjoyed the first one (The Cove) better.
The characters here seemed flat to me and the dialog didn't sound like anything resembling actual human speech, but once the plot got going I found myself somewhat more interested than I had been before.
However, I never really felt that any of the characters were in actual danger, and I prefer my thrillers to be so gripping that I fall on the floor from being pushed so far to the edge of my seat.
Ever have that time your colleague suggested an author you haven't read and you realize you just added 20 books to your TBR stack. #tbrproblems The Maze, by Catherine Coulter, is an excellent read. Lacey Sherlock changes the trajectory of her life to become an FBI agent and catch her sister's killer (who has also killed 7 other women) Can she and Special Agent Savich catch him before he kills again. Why does he make them walk through a maze? Who tried to hit Sherlock with a car? There are some quick transitions, but a good story.
I enjoyed the suspense in the book. I didn't have everything figured out which I always appreciate. But the best part is the main character's name is Lacey Sherlock. The FBI agents she works with even make fun of her name.Story revolves around a serial killer that appears to only kill some women every 7 years. Lacey's 1/2 sister was killed 7 years ago and that is what got her in the FBI. I'll definitely read another Catherine Coulter book in the future.
What I love best about these books is the loveable, complex characters set in a mysterious plot, that also manage to combine for an easy read. They aren't literary, but are riveting and fun, something that I most definitely appreciate.
This is the first book by Catherine Coulter that I have read. I loved it! The characters were interesting and the plot kept me reading. I thought that she wrote romance stories. I was not aware of the serial killer story lines. I will read more by this author.
Done with this book. Done with this series. Insufferable dialogue. I can't stop thinking of pirates and ripping bodices. I stopped reading Harlequin romances around age 15.
Her ability to create thoroughly developed relevant characters always amazes me. She takes time to spin her tale.
