https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/124671.Well_Done_Secret_Seven
5 ⭐ loves this series. 💕
5 ⭐️ loves this series. 💕
Iako više volim onu famoznu petorku, ni ovih sedam nije loše. Simpa za odmor od ozbiljnijih knjiga!
This was yet another of the Secret Seven novels I missed as a child, but have now caught up on.
This is a really quick mystery, as the first part of the book deals with the Seven finding a cooler meeting placein the hot weather, and deciding to build a tree house.
These sort of things are what makes these books; the idea of independent play and the ability to be able to trot off and do stuff.
I was a sheltered child, I would never have been allowed these freedoms!The mystery is quickly resolved, and justice served.
As written by my twelve year old self:It's the summer and it's just impossible for the secret seven society to have their weekly meetings in their shed where they have to shut the doors and the windows all the time.The seven have now built a new meeting place - it's a large tree-house.
The boy tells them his strange story, but was it his made up tale or was it really true?
But they come across things which weren't really related at all to the story the boy had told them.
Was the boy's story a funny business?
However, I tend to agree with one of the reviewers who remarked that since she herself (as a child reader) hadn't noticed the disparities, she doubted most kids would pay much attention to those cultural differences.
Her argument was that because the adventure and the idea of belonging to a secret club really captured her as a reader, she wasn't bothered by how different the seven British kids' experiences were from her own.
One day, Pam, one of the Secret Seven members decided to leave her snacks in the treehouse.
When she came back the next day, she saw that the snacks were missing.
All of the Secret Seven members soon figured out that someone has been coming to stay in their treehouse the last few days.
So one evening, when the secret seven decided to come back from their treehouse, Collin, one of the members forgot his book in the treehouse.
It was a little innocent boy who escape from home because his uncle was very mean.
Will the secret seven find the little boy's uncle in time?
The secret society soon discovers a strange boy along with his cat who trespasses into their domination and they soon get to know about the boys Uncle, who always indulges in crime and get some puzzling clues from the boy.
But, in the end, as always, the magnificent society cracks the case yet again and prevent a ''Post letter robbery'', yes, you heard it right!
A post letter robbery.
Half of the book just goes into building the treehouse and discovering the stranger.
A nice addition with a bright and merry atmosphere and there's character building done efficiently too.
it was an adventure.
Secret Seven no.3, in which the kids actually do have to do a bit of sleuthing.Oh yeah, and their parents let them stay up to go on a crime sting with the local cops. How awesome was childhood in Enid Blyton books?
Great book!
The Secret Seven were always in the shadow of The Famous Five and apparently attracted some controve
Well Done, Secret Seven is a great book. It's about a group of seven kids called Peter (the leader), Janet, Jack, Barbara, Pam, Colin and George. These seven are always getting into big cases. In this book, they meet a kid called Jeff and his kitten which was hurt by Jeffś uncle who is a leader of a gang of thieves. Jeffś mother is in hospital. This is a great book because the twist is just 'wow!'. I think this book is for people aged 8-101. It may appeal to people who like adventure stories. l rate it a 5/5.
When we compare this part of secret seven it looks very normal.Never like the previous one,everything happens as planed except the introduction of the new character I would recommend reading the previous version of secret seven than this one Overall this book was just good
I’m rereading some of my childhood favorites and I had to start with The Secret Seven by Enid Blyton!!For a children’s book, it’s really entertaining and I’m happy I revisited this story
Cute kitten, exiting and interesting.
Little repetition on the plot but yet good one..loved it.
This book is very light and easy for kids to read and to understand about the story.
A fun series to read with children.
Great Book
The secret seven 3 is an amazing book!A few mysterious words make this book what you wouldn't guess it was.
Revisiting the books of my youth out of a feeling of nostalgia! I loved Enid Blyton when I was younger and can't wait to re-read these with my own children.
The book is called, Well Done, Secret Seven.After the events of the previous novel, the Society have had nothing to do so during their holidays, The Secret Seven want somewhere different then Peter and Janet's Shed so they head out and build their very own tree-house at Windy Woods.
Then one night Peter and Colin head out to their tree-house in Windy Woods, only to discover that more of their food has gone missing and to find that a boy and his kitten is in their tee-house.
I want an adventure of my own -cry- but I thought that the adventure was one that you could actually see yourself in and not one that you would go "that would never happen to me!" because, in this case, it actually could happen in your life!I'm really interested in finding out more about the members of the Secret Seven.
Enid Blyton's publisher told her that his four children had formed a group with three of their friends and decided to call it the "Secret Seven Society." They had everything that was in the book; The shed at the bottom of the garden, you couldn't get in if you didn't know the password, they had badges with "SS" written on them, and they had a dog.
The Secret Seven build a tree house27 April 2013 Another short Enid Blyton mystery where the Secret Seven manage to prevent some bad people from ruining somebody's lovely day. However it takes about half of the book for the adventure to start because the first half of the book has them building a tree house because the shed in which they meet in is a little too hot. However, it always makes me cringe when English authors talk about hot days in England because they are pretty much non-existent, i
The Secret Seven build a tree house27 April 2013	Another short Enid Blyton mystery where the Secret Seven manage to prevent some bad people from ruining somebody's lovely day.
However it takes about half of the book for the adventure to start because the first half of the book has them building a tree house because the shed in which they meet in is a little too hot.
There was one time, when I was having breakfast in a cafe in Melbourne the day after I had returned from England and somebody was complaining about the cold.
Having enjoyed Enid Blyton's books as a child, I thought I would re read one of them.
This book is the third in the series and tells the story of the Secret Seven having yet another adventure.
In this book, they encounter a young boy, Jeff, who tells them that he has overheard a criminal plan.
The element of mystery and excitement is evident in the book and I feel that children would really enjoy this, as it is intriguing and would encourage them to want to read on.
When comparing it to other books, for example, those by Roald Dahl, I feel that his have stood the test of time much more than Blyton's works.
A pleasantly quick and easy read, I recall that when I was young I preferred the Famous Five, because their adventures were more exciting, and that memory seems fair, although this is rather lovely.
I think I'd like to go back and read the rest of these again, and probably the Famous Five come to that.
I always loved finding a small place and taking supplies to it, and that's certainly a lasting impact of joyful sequences like that in these books.
This is an enjoyable and (mostly) fair mystery. It's a bit sentimental; some people might call it manipulative.When their shed gets too hot, the Secret Seven decide to meet elsewhere. They find a tree in a nearby wood, and use wooden planks to create a transient tree house that they disassemble after each meeting. But their meeting place is found by a young boy who has an injured kitten and who is in trouble....The copy I read was a "Children's Large Print" edition, ISBN 0-7540-6027-6, with 98 pages.(Finished 2007-11-09 21:05EST)
Enid Blyton is an amazing childrens author, bestselling in the world. Although almost undiscovered by Americans.This series (The Secret Seven) Features 7 children who form a backyard club. They love to have meetings with SecretPasswords, etc. Soon, they begin to fall into mysteries. This series is for the younger reader than the other series Enid Blyton wrote for children. 8-10 years old maybe.Great reading. introduce your children to Enid Blyton today!
I read Famous Five and Secret Seven about the same time. I do not know if it is just me, but I found the Secret Seven mysteries to be a bit more mysterious… if you know what I mean.But yes, all the early lessons I have learnt about friendships and life are from reading Enid Blyton Books early on. So I thoroughly encourage all children to read them. It is like passing a passage of life and the secret seven series is no different.
Ah this was the one where they build a treehouse for their club house. how funny it is, these books i grew up with. they built a treehouse, i wanted to build a treehouse. they had secret passwords, i made secret passwords...i wanted to be a part of their adventures and i was when i read them. i recommend these books for any child under 10
