https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25589.Memoirs_of_the_Second_World_War
تاریخ جنگ جهانی دوم مجموعه کتابی شش جلدی حاوی شرح وقایع جنگ جهانی دوم از دیدگاه وینستون چرچیل است که وقایع آن را از سال پایان جنگ اول جهانی تا ژوئیه ۱۹۴۵ در بر میگیرد.از رهبران کشورهای عمده درگیر در جنگ دوم (هیتلر، موسولینی، استالین و روزولت) تنها چرچیل کتابی تاریخی منتشر کردهاست. برخلاف خبرنگاران که تنها از مسایل علنی مطلع میشدند، چرچیل در اموری مانند مذاکرات محرمانه و طراحیهای عملیات نظامی شرکت داشتهاست و به جزئیات مسایل و رویدادها وقوف داشتهاست؛ علاوه بر این، او به گزارشهای سازمانهای اطلاعاتی
تاریخ جنگ جهانی دوم مجموعه کتابی شش جلدی حاوی شرح وقایع جنگ جهانی دوم از دیدگاه وینستون چرچیل است که وقایع آن را از سال پایان جنگ اول جهانی تا ژوئیه ۱۹۴۵ در بر می‌گیرد.از رهبران کشورهای عمده درگیر در جنگ دوم (هیتلر، موسولینی، استالین و روزولت) تنها چرچیل کتابی تاریخی منتشر کرده‌است.
در مقابل برخی نیز اعتقاد دارند که موشکافی و حساسیت چرچیل اجازه چنین کاری را نمی داده و بیشتر همکارانش، تنها در تهیه اسناد و مدارک مورد استفاده به او یاری رسانده‌اند.اولین چاپ این مجموعه کتاب به صورت مجموعه شش جلدی بوده‌است.
علاوه بر دوره شش جلدی، این کتاب در دوره‌های ۱۲ جلدی و ۴ جلدی نیز منتشر شده‌است.این کتاب را ابتدا ذبیح الله منصوری ترجمه کرد.
I really admire Churchill as a war leader. He was exactly the right man in the right job for the time. But if you want accurate history, go elsewhere. Since millions of documents have been declassified, especially the existence of ULTRA, any WWII history released before 1980 is by definition, woefully incomplete. Like Eisenhower's war memoir, Churchill's is intended to secure his place in history, not at all to tell an accurate story. (Additionally, the main reason Churchill wrote these books is for the money. He was broke.) But this book has value none-the-less for Churchill's powerful point of view.
-Cuando la imparcialidad es innecesaria por múltiples razones que la superan.-Género.
El libro La Segunda Guerra Mundial (publicación original: The Second World War, 1959) es la compilación que realizó Denis Kelly sobre los seis libros que, al respecto, escribió Churchill entre 1940 y 1945, más el epílogo que escribió el autor en 1957, y que nos hablan de los rescoldos de la Gran Guerra, las convulsiones políticas, sociales y económicas del periodo de entreguerras, el ascenso de los fascismos, la hostilidad de la Alemania nazi y, por supuesto, los desarrollos de la Segunda Guerra Mundial (con él mismo, eso sí, como figura omnipresente).¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?


Clearly an essential book to read, especially if there is an interest on how Great Britain survived the years of war prior to the American full involvement. The details of desperate decisions, know that his decision would cost more British lives, but for the greater good. I could see the transformation from a gentle soul to what he was called later, 'the Lion,'or the "Great Lion." How must it have felt that the future of his nation hung on his every word.
Although I was vaguely aware that the Second World War encompassed more than Germany and Russia, I had no idea of the vast expanses in the war's theatre. The campaign across North Africa was particularly compelling for me insofar as I had an uncle who fought in that campaign. Churchill's abridged memoirs run well past 1000+ pages, often laborious readings, but straight from the horse's mouth.
Remember he was a politician during the war, so to be generous, this is in no way a definitive history of the war; or accurate in light of new research. Prose is spellbinding, especially with regards to appeasement.
I appreciated new insights into Britain's role in the war in the Mediterranean and what happened in Greece and the Balkan's in the vacuum after the German's were defeated.
Particularly interesting was Churchill's vision of how the victors would allow the people of the liberated countries to chart their own future following agreements he thought he had with the Soviets after meetings in Tehran and how Britain took an active role in Greece to stop a communist insurgency.
This was contrasted with how the Soviets used their military position and power to support puppet governments in the Balkans and then Poland.
I hadn't picked up a serious history book in years.
I got Churchill's Memoirs from the library for WW2 research, but I honestly wasn't certain if I'd finish the book.I shouldn't have worried.Churchill's eloquent, dramatic prose, brought the many details and theaters of WW2 to life.
Without delving into different events and controversies of the war, I'll simply say that this is one man's perspective, although he includes correspondence with other important figures such as Roosevelt, Stalin, and even documents from the German government, discovered after the war.
As a sweeping overview of the war and interesting insight into one of its great leaders, this book is an excellent read.
Ik las vier delen van de twaalfdelige versie. Wellicht alleen nog echt interessant voor kenners...
When your actions and decisions would affect freedom of all the people of the world and alter the course human civilisation, how would you conduct yourself.
How most of our lives are wasted worrying about things that never happen, and so much is dependent on luck that we cannot hope to do anything else but do our best.You will be filled by anguish as you see the rush for the spoils again, you will shake your head a hundred times, and you would realise that world could have been a far different place.
That is after more than 500k axis forces had already surrendered or died in Africa(where in east africa it was all british and north africa only the last months saw the actions of 1 US and 1 french corps on contrast with 4 british corps, 3 which inflicted the great german defeat in the front which was El Alamein), the german surface navy completely destroyed, the surviving italian navy on allied hands after 1943, half of italy liberated, and the tide completely turned in the eastern front by the Soviet Union.This book does justice to the british war effort.
It took me several weeks to read this book of over 1000 pages, but it was well worth it. Perhaps the best book I have ever read, both for enlightenment and educational value. For me, Winston Churchill is the greatest man to have lived during my lifetime.Some things I learned reading this book:• Amazed to learn about the effect of the U-boats in WWII. Of the total fleet of 250, close to 100 were in U.S. waters at one time during 1942 & 1943. In 68 months of fighting 781 German U-boats were lo
It took me several weeks to read this book of over 1000 pages, but it was well worth it.
Perhaps the best book I have ever read, both for enlightenment and educational value.
For me, Winston Churchill is the greatest man to have lived during my lifetime.Some things I learned reading this book:•	Amazed to learn about the effect of the U-boats in WWII.
In 68 months of fighting 781 German U-boats were lost, but over 14 million tons of Allied shipping were sunk by U-boats•	Learned that Churchill was constantly travelling during the war and preferred face-to-face meetings to communicate.
To trully understand WWII and how it was possible to Hitler to gain balance and trust to invade Poland, you definately have to read this book. Winston Churchil had an extraordinary life, worhty to know, specially the period of WWII, when he was the UK Prime Minister, but its not entirelly accurate, not only beacuse it was writen by himself, so theres always a tendency to show a story that favours the author, but also because when it was writen there were many details that were classified info an

This is an exceptional read for anyone interested in the history of WWII.
Yet, it portrays well the political and economic climate that led up to WWII, and the on goings from Churchill's perspective.
Read this book and then the "Bodyguard of Lies" by Anthony Cave Brown, which details what Churchill could not due to the secrets act.
Kept as secret documents until well after Churchill's death, the Bodyguard of Lies fills in the gaps and weaves a story of espionage, deception, and treachery detailing just how much the Allies actually knew about Axis operations.
An incredible feat to be able to record the sequence of events in such detail in order to be able to provide such a comprehensive account of these incredible events. The political situation is also dealt with in a detail and with an insight I had not experienced before; keeping the country encouraged was one thing, managing Stalin and Roosevelt was something else entirely. Essential reading for anyone interest in the events of the 2nd World War.
This single tome does credit to Winston Churchill: The greatest Britain of the Twentieth Century in key parts of his erudite, literary splendour with many of the essential elements of his breath-taking, sweeping 6 Volume History of The Second World War concisely delivered in 1,000 pages plus a bonus of typically robust assessment of the first decade of the Cold War era.
Generally speaking it is a Great book and Exceptional description of events. Since this is only the British perspective I would like also to read first from others perspective (Japanese, Indian, French, Russian and any other of parts involved) before giving any opinion about real events that happened.
Je voulais surtout voir ce que Churchill disait concernant les événements qui on mené à la deuxième guerre mondiale. Vraiment de matière à méditer dans ce livre. Je me réjouis d'attaquer tome 2.I was particularly interested in getting Churchill's perspective on the events leading to the Second World War. Certainly gives food for thought. Looking forward to attacking the second volume.
I have always wanted to read the six book series and actually picked this up by accident, not realizing it was an abridgement. I am glad I did! I enjoy the political and social aspects of the book, but not the detailed military narratives. Churchill certainly has an agenda in recounting certain aspects of the allied strategy, but I enjoyed in nonetheless.
Fascinating to see WWII through the words of a key player, Winston Churchill. I find his writing style a bit difficult to read but so worth the effort. I learned that there were signs years before WWII that Hitler was either thought to be a joke or a real danger but few took him seriously until he was on his way.
If you are a history buff, and more importantly, a World War II buff, then this is a must read. Insights to the war which amazed me. Churchill is one of the great figures in modern history; plus he is a terrific writer!!!
Tudo acaba por ser genial neste livro com o único problema de ele relatar um dos momentos mais tristes da humanidade. Devia ser leitura obrigatória para todas as pessoas que querem compreende o mundo em que vivemos e também a essência do ser humano.
Churchill is a favorite. A good writer and fantastic story-teller, Churchill tells us his version of WWII as he saw it including his view of the hand of God in the miracles that helped the world overcome the evils of communism.
I could not plow through this book, it took me along to finish. But I really thought it was an excellent work. I am biased though, I love Winston Churchill, but I am also very happy that I never knew him personally, he was arrogant snotty, and rude, but he is still one of my hero's.
I really admire Winston Churchill as a war leader, but this book is just too detailed for me. I love to read about his political thoughts and about his relationsship with Stalin and Roosevelt during the war, but the descriptions of every single battle during WWII bores me.
A leader's view of of the Second WW. While interesting, I found Churchill's writing style somewhat turgid.
This is one of the most enjoyable books I've read in a long time. If you have an interest in WW II, Europe or Winnstn Churchill I highly recommend it.
This is WW2 from Churchill's point of view. Moves along well, fascinating. Shows how desperate the situation was, and what a close shave it was.
