https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30119.Where_the_Sidewalk_Ends
His parents did well naming him Shel.He never did care to conform.What would compel a guy to rebelIf everyone knew him as Norm?
I found a beautiful 40th anniversary edition of this at Costco and just had to pick it up! SUCH A GREAT BOOK THROWBACK TO CHILDHOOD WADDUP
Book Review  4+ of 5 stars to Where the Sidewalk Ends, a collection of poetry published in 1974 by Shel Silverstein. What a wonderful book to read with children at any age; that is, both any age for the reader and the children! I first read this book when I was about 10-years-old, and then again in college. From the brilliant characters to the alliteration and rhyme, to the memorable lines and funny situations, it's one of those books where you will find something new each time you read it.I c
What a wonderful book to read with children at any age; that is, both any age for the reader and the children!
From the brilliant characters to the alliteration and rhyme, to the memorable lines and funny situations, it's one of those books where you will find something new each time you read it.I cannot imagine being this creative.
I admire Silverstein's massive fantasy world of freedom.
It's a book all about perception, but without taking the didactic and pedantic approach.Children see things differently than adults.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
“I will not play at tug o' war.I'd rather play at hug o' war,Where everyone hugsInstead of tugs,Where everyone gigglesAnd rolls on the rug,Where everyone kisses,And everyone grins,And everyone cuddles,And everyone wins.”
البته ایشان خود میگویند: «امیدوارم مردم در هر سنی چیزی را در کتابهایم بیابند، تا با آن احساس نزدیکی کنند.
این عالی ست البته برای خودشان نه من»؛ دو سرود از «جایی که پیاده رو تموم میشه» ترجمه حمید خادمیآلیسآلیس یه بطری که روش نوشته شده بود «مرا بنوشید» نوشید.
بعدش کلی قد کشید، یا از یه ظرفی که روش نوشته شده بود «مرا بچشید» خورد.
There's a polar bear - in the fridgedare - he likes it cuz its cold in there!I wrote a report on this in the 6th grade and I still remember that by heart.
That was the year I got braces and Chris N.
butted in line when we were coming in from recess and I grabbed his arm and said "No Butting!" and he turned around and punched me in the face.
Read it.
Read it to your kids.
Read it to people you love.
And always remember that there IS a polar bear in the frigidare.
This collection of children's poems from Shel Silverstein is a real treat. Each of the creatures and characters is fascinating and never overly moralistically drawn. There are lots of laughs here - both my kids adored these poems and were sad when I turned the last page. "More!!" they cried.
Children need to experience this kind of creepy / weird / funny / sad stuff, not just for their own sake, but for the sake of having a conduit through which they can make sense of most of the rest of the world.
We, as humans, need to come to terms with inexplicable and unfathomable in the world, and it wasn't until Shel that we began to realize that the only way to gently help our children do just that, is to let a perverted old weirdo with a large stack of Playboys in his basement lead the way.
("He's being shy, he usually sings this all day!")"No, I don't want to," I'd insist."Come on, Joel, sing the song from the tape.""NOOOOO!" I would shout, now in tears."SING IT OR YOU'RE IN TROUBLE!"One of the things they would force me to perform like a trained monkey I liked to recite best was Shel Silverstein poetry.
Come by sometime and maybe my parents will force me to perform for you like some kind of sideshow robot freak.Facebook 30 Day Book Challenge Day 7: Book that you can quote/recite.
All I can say is that this book is amazing.
This was the first book that my dad ever read to me and I loved it.
I was re-reading it today and I normally don’t love books I loved when I was little, but this book is different.
I still love it, there’s not much else I can say that people haven’t already said, so I am just going to end this super short review now.P.S. If you haven’t read this before I recommend giving it a go, it is a nice fun, simple read that I’m sure you’ll enjoy reading.
Look O Look!I see a book! A book that gleamsA book that screams Delightful thingsBy Shel SilversteinPoems and drawingsThat are not boringThey speak to me Like a tapestryOf childhood joysFor girls and boys Not just for kidsAdults will digThe funny rhymesof forgotten timesWhen they were youngAnd life was funSo turn the page Forget your age When the book ends You can start againAnd follow the bendWhere the sidewalk ends
The best poetry book i have read so far.
Such an amazing book!
This new addition has 12 new poems, and they fit in perfectly with our beloved favorites.
The first poem, Invitation, sums the book up perfectly, and remains one of my favorite poems of all time:InvitationIf you are a dreamer, come in,If you are a dreamer, a wisher, a liar,A hope-er, a pray-er, a magic bean buyer...If you're a pretender, come sit by my fireFor we have some flax-golden tales to spin.Come in!Come in!And once you do, you'll never be the same.
Awaken your silly wiggly bold beastie of a child within, and read this book, again and again...
یکی از شعرهایی که حس کردم خودم هم می تونم ازش یاد بگیرم این بود:Just ME, Just MeSweet Marie, she loves just me(she also loves Maurice McGhee)No she don't, she loves just me(She also loves Louise Dupree)No she don't, she loves just me(She also loves the willow tree)No she don't, she loves just me(Poor, poor fool, why can't you seeShe can love others and still love thee)من حداقل تا یکی دو سال پیش توی درک و هضم مضمومنی که توی شعر بالا بهش پرداخته شده عاجز بودم و آدمایی رو هم می شناسم که این مشکل رو دارن، بنابراین این نشون میده که شعرهای سیلوراستاین با اینکه در وهله اول برای بچه ها نوشته شدن، ولی مخاطبشون می تونه خیلی خیلی گسترده تر از "فقط بچه ها" باشهواقعاً باور دارم که اگه مردم دنیا شعرهای سیلوراستاین رو مثل یه قرارداد نا نوشته از همون بچگی برای بچه هاشون بخونن، مفهوم دنیایی ازصلح و یه حسی مثه نفرت از جنگ و خون ریزی توی ذهن ها بچه ها نقش می بنده و شاید یه دنیای بهتر رو داشته باشیم.
Admittedly, I have a soft heart when it comes to children's books.
Some of his clever rhymes reveal the magic of the young and how some kids are able to live in a world all their own...that wonderful place called childhood.
We've already gone back and reread some favorites...And I love how the pictures come right from the authors head, as well as the words.
Highly recommended for any parents and kids who need a dose of imagination, humor, and insight.
I'd even recommend this to just an adult who likes to laugh.
Parents should know that there is a great deal of suggestive content in this book mainly revolving around the topic of morbid humor and the topic of God. The two poems that might be the most controversial would be “Ma and God” and “Sarah Cynthia Sylvia Stout would not take the Garbage Out.” In “Ma and God,” the poem talks about how Ma always tells her child to not do bad things, even though God has created the bad things for the child to do.
“Where the Sidewalk Ends” is another great classic book of poems from Shel Silverstein and it will surely help engage children into the world of poetry.
Silverstein excels not only in rhyming, but his use of adjectives in the English language when describing things such as "icky, stick, peanut butter sandwiches" makes this a joy not only to listen to, but to read out loud as well.
I remember having it read to me for the first time when I was five years old, and I loved it so much I stole my friend's copy from her house.
A five year olds reasoning, even mine, is sometimes beyond me.) In any case, I absolutely love this book and the other books by Silverstein as well.
TRUE STORY This morning I jumped on my horseAnd went out for a ride.And some wild outlaws chased meAnd they shot me in the side.So I crawled into a wildcat’s caveTo find a place to hide,But some pirates found me sleeping there,And soon they had me tiedTo a pole and built a fireUnder me-I almost criedTill a mermaid came and cut me looseAnd begged to be my bride.So I said I’d come back WednesdayBut I must admit I lied.Then I ran into a jungle swampBut I forgot my guideAnd I stepped into some quic

Mommy and I are going through one poem at a time. So far I like it, but am rather confused by a few!!6/27/08--My favorite poem so far is Ickle Me, Pickle Me, Tickle Me Too! I love how is sounds when Mommy says it.
The collection of poems in this children's poetry book are really unique and amusing. One of the poems that I like is entitled  Smart :
لِسـتِرجادوگری که روی درخت انجیر هندی زندگی می کنه.به لستر گفت یه آرزو بکنه تا اون براش با جادو برآورده کنهاون هم آرزو کرد که حقِ دو تا آرزوی دیگه هم داشته باشه دوباره؛.یعنی حالا به جای یه آرزو، با زرنگی سه تا آرزو دارهبعد با هر کدوم از این سه آرزو،مشخصا آرزو کرد برای سه تا دیگه آرزوکه شد نُه تا آرزوی تازه، به اضافه همون سه آرزوبعد با هر کدوم از این دوازده تا آرزوبا زرنگی آرزوی سه تا آرزوی دیگه کردکه رسید به چهل و شش تا - یا پنجاه و دو تا شاید؟خلاصه ، به هر حال از هر آرزوش،در جهت آرزو برای آرزوهای دیگه استفاده کرد، هی اومد روش.تا رسید به پنج میلیارد و هفت میلیون و هجده هزار و سی و چهار آرزوبعد اینهارو روی زمین پهن کرد،شروع به کف زدن و دور اونها رقصیدن کرد،و بنا کرد جست و خیز کردن و آواز خوندن.بعد نشست به آرزوی آروزهای بیشتر کردن.باز هم بیشتر ...
One of my favorites from when I was a kid. I remember this book along with 'light in the attic' always being checked out of the school library and not wanting to give it back when my turn was up.Re-visiting it as an adult, I found some of the poems I didn't care for but plenty of my old favorites still had me smiling and sometimes reading them again before turning the page.Just a fun book, highly recommend :)
A truly delightful collection of hilarious nonsense poetry accompanied by some rather lovely illustrations. I really enjoyed this and am glad I decided to buy it for my wife for Christmas. :-D
Incredibly entertaining poems. I do a poem a week with my 2nd graders, and our current one is Melinda Mae. Let's see if I can remember it from the top of my head:"Have you heard of tiny Melinda Maewho ate a monstrous whale?She thought she could, she said she wouldSo she started in right at the tail.And everyone said, 'You're much too small!'But that didn't bother Melinda at all.She took little bites and chewed very slow, just like a little girl should...And in 89 years she ate that whaleBecause she said she would."Yay! I love Shel Silverstein.
I forgot I had this book, - so long ago my art teacher gave me a copy - I memorized so many of these poems - just re-reading it now I am surprised at how many stayed with me. To hear Shel read them is an experience... he has a pretty creepy voice on some of them.Leaves me singing "On the cover of Rolling Stone".

“I will not play at tug o' war.I'd rather play at hug o' war,Where everyone hugsInstead of tugs,Where everyone gigglesAnd rolls on the rug,Where everyone kisses,And everyone grins,And everyone cuddles,And everyone wins.” These were quite funny and even funnier if you read them out loud.
Here's the thing, this book is adorable. It's cute and has got the most appealing drawings buuuut since I'm too old for this, I didn't really appreciate it that much. I'm not a fan of the 'glums and blums'- ya know,the kids stuff and never was. All in all,it's cute but it's not something I like to read.
Debo decir que soy una gran fan de leer libros para niños que no sean infantiles sino que tengan un plus, es gracias a ello que Shel Silverstein se convirtió en uno de mis escritores favoritos.
Sus libros de cuentos son simplemente encantadores así que decidí comenzar a leer una compilación de sus poemas iniciando con Falling Up (que disfrute bastante) y siguiendo con este libro...La formula es la clásica de Silverstein, poemas graciosos, a veces muy bizarros, con elementos que poco tienen que ver o resoluciones inesperadas.
So purely astounding. Loved each and every word of it.
