https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/65459.Adolf_Hitler
At 1,035 pages, they weren't screwing around when they decided to call this book "the definitive biography." I can pretty much tell you what Hitler ate for breakfast everyday between 1933 and 1945 (for instance, on April 30th, 1945 he ate a bullet).A few months back, I picked up a biography of Diana Mitford, wife of Sir Oswald Mosley, the leader of the British Union of Fascists, and close friend of Adolf Hitler.
In its entirety, the book was relatively dull, but I was captivated by Mitford's characterization of Hitler as a brilliant thinker, an enthusiastic leader, and (perhaps most unsettling of all) a compassionate and generous friend.
You go to one of his meetings and he gives you astonishing dreams, and he gives you permissions.
You look up from the Jew and meet his eyes.
He was at the meeting too.*********Some times when I listen the Bob Dylan I think - Hitler would have had you killed if he had half a chance.
Their hatred was limitless.*********And just a quick something about this great book - it rang my head like a bell many years ago.
You know where they say "it was a biography but I was turning the pages like it was a thriller"?
This is one of the very best accounts of the Nazi period. I have now read the sections covering 1932-33 which tell the story of Hitler's rise to the Chancellorship, including who helped him and why.
Perhaps the book really takes off for me though when we enter the era of the First World War, and the treatment of Germany at Versailles following Germany's surrender which to me seems the lynchpin Hitler’s life turned on.
Toland clearly sets out the how hitler established his gang of thugs, the taking over of a sideline political party, the fashioning of that party into a well oiled political machine and the eventual establishing of total power with the death of President von Hindenberg.
Other works adequately provide analyses, but to get to know the subject, this book is the real deal.
You will see traces of Toland in most works on Hitler which have followed since.
Stalin, Mao and Hitler, Nazism and Communism, were virtually as one to my mind--all dictators, all war-mongers.
I suffered this terrible ambivalence of fascinated fear throughout primary school.One of my first research projects in high school was a paper on the war in Vietnam.
By junior year I was torn between Trotsky and Gandhi, Communism and pacifism, and believed virtually nothing reported in the mainstream press or by the president about American foreign policy intentions.Hitler's Germany returned to mind in this context.
But as Toland points out, had he died at the age of 50, after ten years in power but before the invasion of Poland, he would today be regarded as one of the greatest leader in German history, if not the world.
He admired the Camps for Boar prisoners in South Africa and for the wild Indians in the South West, and often praised to his inner circle the efficiency of America’s extermination—by starvation and uneven combat—of the red savages who could not be tamed by captivity.” In 1890, when Hitler was a one-year-old, the US Calvary systematically massacred men, women, and children at Wounded Knee, winding up an era of nationally sponsored genocide against Native Americans and a massive land-grab.
Toland avoids a lot of the mistakes of popular treatments of Hitler’s life by being very careful about his sources, and making use of (and cross-referencing) interviews with surviving witnesses on a large scale.
At times, he does take Mein Kampf at its word, when of course much of that autobiography was written for propaganda purposes, but at least he avoids doing so when there are sources that contradict Hitler’s story.Although it is quite long (over 1000 pages), the book is written in an engaging style with many vignettes and anecdotes that make it more accessible as a narrative.
Dismissed by some historians, Toland produces here the most objective biography of Hitler imaginable.
Rooted on the solid ground of interviews with former Nazis living in hiding and unaccessible to other historians, makes a case for sour grapes.
However, if you want to meet the man, experience what he experienced, see him as he saw himself, then this is the book for you.
Toland employs a device where he allows his subjects to edit his writing based on their interviews--also unorthodox.
There are some show stopping revelations in this book, but it is not for the feint of heart.
I can not believe that there is a better book available that covers the second most written about man in human history –Adolph Hitler. His chronicled life shows not only his evil prejudices but also his normal side. Toland gives plausible reasons for Hitler’s anti-Semitism. He exposes lies spread about Hitler such as his refusal to shake Jesse Owens hand after Owens’ Olympic victory. Very good and surprisingly funny anecdotes are incorporated such as Hitler’s crazy cousin spreading pamphlets claiming Hitler was part Jewish. It is a brilliantly researched book.
This book was about a life of a stubborn and cruel man, Adolf Hitler. He started to make his dreams come true. He made the most destructive war in history all because Germany lost one war before he became the fuhrer.
Książka nie pozostawia wątpliwości, że eksterminacja Żydów odbyła się na rozkaz i za wiedzą Hitlera.
Ciekawie tez opisuje jak poradził sobie z faktem, że mordowanie, szczególnie na taką skale, nie jest za bardzo katolickie.
Podlegający represjom Żyd musiał mieć co najmniej troje dziadków Żydów lub dwoje ale wtedy musiał tez być wierzącym i praktykującym judaizm.
Jeżeli dziadków było dwoje ale osoba nie praktykowała wiary - to spoko.
Ale także okazało się pod ustawę nie podchodził już Jezus.
W ten sposób można było po katolicku oskarżać Żydów o zabicie Jezusa, który - wg hitlerowskiego prawodawstwa - Żydem nie był.
Ale cieszę się, że mam ja już za sobą.
This book goes into painstaking detail about the lives of his parents and grandparents, his childhood, young adulthood as a struggling artist and in the German army, and his rise in the National Socialist (Nazi) party in Germany, and how he began to amass control of Germany, Austria, Czechoslovakia, Poland, etc.
He sincerely cared about the German people, the workers and the men in his army.
When the people and the army had to sacrifice because of the war, he insisted that his generals and he himself sacrifice, too.
Bardzo dobrze napisana ksiazka. Mimo ponad tysiaca stron druku nie ma nudnych fragmentow. Nie jestesmy rowniez zasypywani danymi statystycznymi. Widzimy A.H. jako osobe a nie monumentalna postac historyczna. Moim zdaniem ta biografia jest lepsza niz klasyczne juz "Studium tyrani". Niestety widac ze ksiazka powstala w latach 70-tych i powiela wiele mitow (po Bullock'u) jak np. czesciowo zydowskie korzenia A.H. Osoby zainteresowane wspolczesnym stanem wiedzy o A.H. powinny siegnac po ksiazki Wernera Maser'a. Reasumajac bardzo dobra ksiazka a bardzo zlym czlowieku.
Ponad 1000 stron opisu życia i śmierci Hitlera. Zaskakująco dużo informacji o jego młodości. Książka opisuje nie tylko samego Hitlera, ale i jego otoczenie. Szczególnie dobrze widać to podczas opisu drugiej wojny światowej, gdzie momentami główna postać książki odchodziła wręcz na drugi plan. Z polskiej perspektywy, brakowało mi więcej informacji o reakcjach Hitlera na powstania w Polsce. Ogólnie, niesamowity musiał być wkład pracy w stworzenie takiego kompendium. Nie jest też napisane w suchy, naukowy sposób, tekst czyta się bardzo dobrze.
I believe you trust Toland. I checked out his sources. He seems to be truthful. Fascinating book! Good read.
Hitler was not just the world's greatest motivational speaker, he was confident, dedicated and calculated. Yet for all his charm, ability and intellect he choose to waste it on revenge over the first world war. The book is a powerful lesson in unchecked power and might give some insight how he came to power and why no authority should be absolute.
You won't be able to completely shed your distaste for the man, the myth or the legend, but you can appreciate his timeframe and what led to his decisions with a little better clarity.Toland does an excellent job with Eva Braun, bringing her forward from the shadows and fleshing out the dismissive view nearly every historian has taken of her since Speer casted her as the dumb blond of history.
The last point to remember about Toland is that he was a journalist first, and not a trained historian, and so the professionals tend to look down their noses at him, Kershaw and Hastings most of all.
Leer sobre un Adolf Hitler desde la perspectiva de un ser humano, que fue niño, adolescente y adulto soñador como lo son muchos, con ideales, planes, maravillado por el mundo artístico y su paso por alcanzar estas ilusiones.
John nos relata la historia de un Adolf Hitler sin tomar la posición de un juez acusador, sino que demuestra con pruebas, hechos, historias, investigaciones, relatos sobre cómo vivió uno de los revolucionarios más importantes del siglo XX.
Es un libro que muestra los mitos sobre la vida y muerte de Adolf Hitler y da detalles para que uno mismo se de una conclusión.
If the story is narrated like a novel and contains fruitful lessons, it is possible.
While the story is easily engaging, I felt the heaviness its historic implications upon the Jewish people (among other targeted populations) as I read.
Hitler was a deluded narcissist to the Nth degree, with skills for crowd manipulation and personal blame-shifting.
His life aims were to destroy Jewry in Europe like an abscess is lanced as he put it and oppose bolshevism's spread to the continent.
The day Hitler committed suicide, he uttered words of prophesy while deflecting the blame.
Truly remarkable.
I'd been hard-pressed to find a decent fair biography of this enigmatic man called Adolf Hitler.
Without reading them I'd compared dozens of biographies, asking people's opinions, combing through book reviews so as not to experience a disappointment since virtually every biography of Hitler is not less than 700 pages and usually has the word "evil" in its title (which is straight out bias).
No aspect of the guy's life goes untouched and it is told in a very easy-to-read fashion.The book focuses solely on Hitler, so if you wanted an overview of the Holocaust in general you won't find it in here.
It sheds some light on Himmler, but given that the Fuhrer essentially told Himmler how to take care of the "Jewish problem" and Himmler just did it, there was little need for Toland to delve too deep into it (though Hitler's anti-Semitism is certainly explored throughout the 900 pages).Honestly, it's an undertaking to read this book.
I was born within ten years of Hitler's death and the end of World War II in 1945.
We had toy guns and played war games.
What continues to amaze me, is that America was at the same time, central, yet peripheral, to the outcome, death, carnage and destruction of World War II.
Further, in my own view, World War II carried on World War I, which in and of itself, was a world changing war.
Hitler was not much of an anomaly, in my own view.
Although this was a very interesting book, with a lot of anecdotes and interesting speculations, later reading has definitely brought into question a great many of the assertions which were made in this book.
It is an old book and historical method has probably changed since then, but there were some really rather stunning 'facts' about Hitler which were expounded in this book and which have never been confirmed or, in many cases, have simply been denied by later historians.
But it is an interesting read and it got me started on a path of history which has been immensely fascinating.
This book gives a detailed history of Adolf Hitler like no other book I have read. It discusses in depth his dislike for Jewish Zionists, and how he didn't hate the Jews just for the sake of hating. It is lengthy, but it certainly disproves the current myth of Hitler as a mindless buthcer propogated by the Zionist-Western press.
Toland tells the story, year by year, month by month, day by day, and occasionally hour-by-hour, of Adolf Hitler: his origins, his childhood, his formative teenage years, experiences in the First World War, his pledge to join politics, his rise to power as head of the National Socialist Party, his leadership of Germany as chancellor and Fuhrer, the actions that he took to lead to the Second World War, and finally the inevitable defeat of Germany and his suicide in the final year of the war.
Good book for someone interested in WWII but for anyone else it's too long to suffer through. I loved it though.
A monumental masterpiece. I'm sorry I waited so long to read it.
Everyone should know the workings of a truly evil mind so that it can be recognized and stopped
Rather than provide much military, psychological or political analysis, author John Toland just tells the story of Adolf Hitler's life, via first hand accounts from diaries and, in some cases, personal interviews with survivors.
Like Napoleon, he alienated or attacked so many neighbours that he ended up fighting on too many fronts, leading to his country being invaded from all sides and reduced to the size it was when he started, at the cost of millions of lives.The most amazing part of the story is that although Hitler was making outrageous slurs against Jews as early as the 1920s, he managed to make the Nazis the largest party in Germany by 1933, through the democratic process.
If it weren't for the unprecedented storm of human suffering he unleashed, this Hitler fellow would go down as the greatest clown of all time!
Still it was nice to read what is considered (by some, I guess) to be the definitive biography on the man most responsible for all the horror.
And he was definitely responsible.
Toland did a slew of interviews with people who were there and references all the pertinent documents, so I trust his conclusions.
Toland is not on a level with Caro, but he's up there.
If Bob is Jordan, Toland can be Pippen.
