https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/760205.There_s_a_Nightmare_in_My_Closet
Before going to sleep, I always closed the closet door»Winner of the Andersen Prize foer the year 2016, I got my eye on this illustrated story at the Naples Book Fair (2018), and it hit me.
My wife saw me looking at this book greedy when I was at the fair, so a few weeks later she gave it to me.
Mia moglie mi ha visto sfogliarlo ripetutamente allo stand della Kalandraka, tanto che qualche settimana dopo me lo ha regalato.
Con il benestare di mia figlia, ovviamente.Voto: 8
Just in time for Halloween...be sure to check before you go to bed!
My brother and I would love reading this book because it secured us that all monsters are babies and there is nothing to be scared of.
It is a great story that I can personally relate to because I was always scared of something being in my closet or some scary nightmares that I would have.
This book teaches young kids that there is nothing to be afraid of and that these nightmares are more scared of us than we are of them.
I hope kids can all turn to the main character as their hero who is determined to fight these nightmares.
"Go away nightmare or I'll shoot you!""I shot him anyway..."Love it. Read it and be five again, if only for a brief moment.
Another favorite from my childhood. Mayer's illustrations are every bit as enchanting as Sendak's and it is a sweet little story to boot!
The monster is a Nightmare, and when the little boy has had enough, he wages war with him, donning his soldier hat and a cork pop gun for protection.
Deconstructionists might say that the story has unintended homosexual undertones, and some people are offended by the pseudo-violence, but I think that children take the story at face value, and enjoy finding out that the little boy had nothing to fear.
Mayer's illustrations are whimsical and brilliant, even if they are in only white, turquoise, and orange, and I think that children will continue to enjoy this one for a long time coming.
I remember reading this story years ago and just recently picked it up again for another view. It hasn't lost any of its 'umph' over the years. I LOVE that the nightmare monster from the closet turns out to just be a scared monster that wants to hide under the boy's covers with him :) And again, Mercer Mayer - what more needs to be said. You can't ever go wrong with his illustrations.
These nightmares are cute!
“There’s a Nightmare in my Closet” may be a cute story about conquering your fears, but the story is a bit dull for some children.Mercer Mayer’s illustrations are creative and colorful as he illustrates the nightmare as being extremely huge but seems to look a bit goofy as it has two big front teeth and has green polka dots against his pinkish skin.
Summary This book is about a boy being afraid of a nightmare living in his bedroom closet.
The images show step by step what the boys does and how he gets through his fear of the nightmare when his scary night is standing right next to his bed.
The author tries to show kids being afraid at night can be accomplish.
It helps the kids understand what the pictures mean and why was a boy scare of his closet at night.
I read this book it is about a young boy who knows that there is a big, scary nightmare living in his bedroom closet.
However, one night the boy decides he's tired of hiding under his sheets, and so he sets out to rid his closet of the nightmare once and for all.
I will ask the children to use drawing paper to illustrate how they would get rid or capture a monster in a closet.
The ideas should be creative and nonviolent.Arts: I will ask the children to use a variety of different shapes and colors of construction paper to create imaginary monsters.
I think what made me like the book so much was the toy cannon.
Something tells me this is another book I read somewhere in the past.
But as I could not remember it thoroughly, it was like reading it for the first time.
And I enjoyed it.
Definitely one I can see kids enjoying.10/9/10 This worked very well in Craft Storytime, with the various ages.
I think I'll use this in my upcoming repeat ST to replace the book that bombed.10/12/10 Both Outreach preschool groups liked this.
It was fun to read and they liked it.
The preschool groups loved it.
There's A Nightmare In My Closet by Mercer Mayer is a story about a boy who knows there is a monster in his closet.
He tucks the monster into bed and falls asleep with him.
However, he declares that the third monster in his closet will just not fit into his bed like the second one.
This book brought me back to my childhood memories of being frightened of the monster in the closet.
I would hide my face like the boy and try not to peek in case I saw the monster.
I would never have been brave enough to face my monster though.
Booklady had the supreme pleasure yesterday of having an adorable, adoring little three year old girl to read to! Not only was she cute, well-mannered and an absolute joy to be around, but she wanted me to read to her! Twist my arm... Not!There's a Nightmare in My Closet is a fun story about a young child who decides to tackle nighttime monsters head-on. A simple, humorous tale about making friends with fear.
"There's a Nightmare in My Closet" is a children's picture book written and illustrated by Mercer Mayer.
The story is about the fear that a young boy has of the dark and how he believes that a monster is living in his closet.
One night the boy becomes tired of being scared and cowering under his sheets, so he sets out to get rid of the nightmare living in his closet!
This book would be great for any child between the ages of 4-8 years old.
Especially those that are afraid and need some guidance in conquering their fears of the dark and of monsters!
A sweet story about a little boy who is afraid of the nightmare in his closet, but it turns out that the nightmare is afraid of him!
Text-to-Self ConnectionAs a young child I remember my parents reading There's a Nightmare in My Closet to me one night before moving into my own bedroom. I was so afraid that I would have something in my new closet. My mom and dad reassured me there was nothing in my closet. I kept asking them if the nightmare was going to wear my clothes and play with my toys when I was asleep. This is a classic book that I would share with the kids in my own classroom.
I think the nightmare is a symbol for the boy’s fear of the dark.
When he says there is no room in his bed for another nightmare, he really means that he will have to conquer all his fears one at a time.
Some pages of the book seem like double full bleeds, save for a small amount of white space for where the text is written.
The pages with the most white space are near the middle of the story, when the boy says he was mad but not too mad.
The last page of the book is a double full bleed illustration with no text at all.
I first thought that the pages with a border of white space around them were the pages when the little boy felt the most venerable, but later in the book there is an opening with two illustrations like this, and it comes just after the boy shoots the nightmare and the nightmare began to cry.
I still don’t know what exactly Mayer was trying to accomplish by framing those few pages, but I like that it adds variety to the look of the story.
Again, I don’t know why Mayer did this, but I for some reason, feel that the story would be different if the boy was on the left side with the nightmare on the right.
A very entertaining fantasy with a unique role reversal, it shows that sometimes monsters just need a hug.
The book is about a young boy who overcomes his fear of a monster hiding in his closet when he stays up all night to catch the monster that roams his room while he is asleep.
The best part of the book is when the boy is sleeping with the monster in his bed with another monster smiling and peeking out of the closet.
This is a great easy read book for beginning readers with captivating illustrations and good learning experiences for children.
This book could teach young readers to not be afraid of the dark, monsters in their closets, and when they are afraid to overcome their fears.
In this book, one little boy talks about the monster hiding away in his closet.
Every night, before going to bed, he makes sure to close the closet door to keep the nightmare away.
The monster is scary, and the little boy is only sometimes tempted to peek at the closed door.
The sentences are short and the vocabulary is simple, which is perfect for early-readers.The first thing that I noticed about this book was the interaction between the boy and the monster on the cover.
Yet, the story it tells is one every reader can relate to.
A teacher could use this book to build their students vocabulary by having the students tell what is happening in the story based only on the pictures and not on the words in the book.
The teacher could show the cover and then ask the students what they think is going to happen in the book.
Instead of reading the book, the teacher could share the name of the book and then ask the children to write or draw what they would do if they had a nightmare in their closet.
A young boy is trying to go to sleep, but there is a monster in his closet.
After nights of shutting his closet door in fear and crawling into bed with weapons at the ready, he decides that he needs to face his nightmare.
When the boy realizes that Nightmare is actually useless and not scary at all (and is crying so loudly he’s going to wake the boy’s parents), he tucks Nightmare into bed.
Here the colors brighten and show that everything is going to be okay; now the boy can sleep!There’s a Nightmare in My Closet would be a welcome addition to a young child’s home library.
By this point in re-reading old childhood favorite stories I have noticed that a bunch of the books are from the same author.
What a change from authors found in this time while I can understand why it may be hard for parents to find good healthy reading material for young bibliophiles.
The story is basic and one that parents will enjoy reading with their children, especially for those who have unknown beasties lingering in their closets.
No time is too late to start helping a child to learn how to face their fears as they start to get older.
There's a Nightmare in My Closet, by Mercer Mayer is about a little boy that thinks there are monsters in his closet so he's afraid to go to bed at night. As soon as the lights are out the monster sets out to taunt the little boy, once he's had enough the boy decides to fight off the monster and get rid of him once and for all. This is a great storybook for younger children about conquering their fears.
I grew up with this book so this is many memories for me. I like that at first he was scared of his nightmare in the closet but at the end he is the one telling him it will be okay. It is what every parent hopes will happen when their child goes through the monster in the closet deal. You can use this to help ease and teach your own child not to be afraid.
I first read this book in a children's lit class in college before I even had children, and I loved it so much I bought it for my future kids then! I absolutely adore the darling illustrations and the loveable monster(s).
I liked it because it was funny and the boy was helping the monster even though the monster was trying to scare him. It was funny because the boy said his bed wasn't big enough for two monsters and him, then another monster came
Really clever and fun with great art.
