https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35097255-the-president-is-missing
This is literally the most ridiculous collaboration I've ever heard about. And part of me desperately wants to read it solely for that reason.
I’m more surprised than anyone.
When I first heard about this book a year ago I thought it was a joke.
It reads like most popular thrillers, and I’m sure Patterson wrote 95% of it, but the added voice of an experienced president shines through.
It’s not JUST a thriller, it’s a scenario of what-ifs.
The commentary on how a president has to make tough decisions (they elect to avoid the phrase “hard choices”) is the most intriguing part of the book while the conventional edge-of-your-seat plot kept me eagerly reading.
I rarely “devour” a book, but I really did tear through this one.
And yet it provides plenty of insight on the former president’s ego.The novel opens with the commander in chief, President Duncan, preparing for a House Select Committee.
Although Congress insists he explain exactly what he’s been up to, he can’t reveal the details of his secret negotiations with a terrorist set on destroying the country.As a fabulous revision of Clinton’s own life and impeachment scandal, this is dazzling.
. .To read the rest of this review, go to The Washington Post:https://www.washingtonpost.com/entert...To watch the Totally Hip Video Book Review of this novel, click here:https://www.washingtonpost.com/video/...
I figured that this pairing of writers would be a very good collaboration. This book is touted as a thriller, with page turning excitement. For me it was neither. For me it was just pages and pages and did I say pages of nothing remotely thrilling. I couldn't wait to be finished with it.
James Patterson has entered into his most interesting collaboration yet, taking second chair to former American president Bill Clinton in a story that is highly political and action packed from the opening paragraph through to the epilogue’s lingering final sentence.
Recommended for thriller buffs, particularly those who enjoy something with a political and terror twist.This is surely not your typical James Patterson novel, leading me to wonder just how much influence the former president had in its writing.
”They aren’t going to ask for something.They aren’t seeking a change in our foreign policy.They don’t want prisoners released.They aren’t going to demand a ransom at all.They’re just going to detonate the virus.They want to destroy us.”  On top of all this, which fortunately the American public is blissfully unaware of this impending national computer virus crisis, the President is also missing. While his arch enemy, the Republican Speaker of the House, is gleefully trashing him in the press,
I’ve been joking with my writer friends that I need to write a thriller in the Patterson style and change my name to Jamie Patterson so my books will be right next to his on the bookstore shelves.
The question that bothers me the most as I read the book is, whether Clinton or Patterson, either one, had anything to do with the writing.
Or am I still that unicorn reader who still hasn’t read a James Patterson book?
In fact, for those who don't share his political bent, I'd strongly suggest skipping the final chapter entirely (President Jonathan Lincoln Duncan's address to a joint session of Congress).
President Duncan is right in the middle of the situation, having been sent a dire warning about what's to come via his daughter in Paris (his wife died of cancer a year or so earlier and he's personally dealing with a serious blood disorder, adding a bit more tension as the story progresses).
The warning comes as the President is facing a House Committee hearing that his enemies hope will end in impeachment (hmmm, that, too, has a familiar ring to it).
This is basically the book equivalent of McDonalds: You know it is trash but you also kind of enjoy it and the high levels of artificial cheese leave you feeling kind of queasy. Watch me discuss this book in my July wrap up: https://youtu.be/uug2ch7Sggc
An entertaining cyberterrorism thriller with quick pacing and relentless tensionSUMMARYThe novel opens with President Jonathan Lincoln Duncan, preparing to testify before a House select committee.
Duncan refuses to reveal to the country that this terrorist organization has threatened to activate a devastating computer wiper-virus within days, that will infect every server, computer, and electronic device in America.
But President Duncan is working tirelessly to stop the terrorist, identify the country supporting the terrorist, and find a traitor in the West Wing.
President Duncan narrates the drama so you are with him every step of the way as he goes undercover to a Nationals baseball game, and it’s game on from there.
This is a disappointing effort from this duo as I found this underwhelming. Mr. Clinton always has a penchant for wordiness, exacerbated in this novel. 2 of 10 stars
Not brilliant by any means, but a fun read and a real page-turner. I'm guessing that Clinton provided the details on the presidency and characters and Patterson drove the plot, but who knows?
3.5 stars'The President is Missing' is a novel about President Jonathan Lincoln Duncan, who's in a race against time to stop a cyberattack that would cripple the United States.
Be that as it may, for my review I'll consider President Duncan a purely fictional character, made up by the authors.*****As the book opens, President Jonathan Lincoln Duncan is preparing for a hearing initiated by House Speaker Lester Rhodes, whose aim in life is to impeach the President.....a goal he'll do almost anything to achieve.
The grounds for the hearing revolve around the fact that President Duncan stopped pro-Ukraine separatists from killing terrorist leader Suliman Cindoruk, whose 'Sons of Jihad' followers have carried out deadly attacks on three continents.
If you love West Wing or Designated Survivor mixed with a bit of Dan Brown, you'll love this book. It's just a fun ride with lots of guessing about what's going to happen next. I thoroughly enjoyed this book!
At first, I wasn't at all interested in reading this political thriller penned by Bill Clinton and James Patterson.
Then, while on vacation, I watched an interview with the former president about the book, its storyline, and why he wanted to write it.
It is - at its essence - a James Patterson book.
If you're familiar with his writing style, you will feel his touches and patterns throughout the story.However, I was also distinctly aware of President Clinton's voice weaving within the narrative, especially (and not surprisingly) in the character of President Duncan.
Duncan is the president that Clinton aspired to be.
i mean damn. "a thriller written by bill clinton and james patterson" who wouldn't be morbidly curious
President John Duncan has to confront a terrorist threat and keep the nation from being destroyed. All while keeping his medical condition from sending him to the hospital. I really liked that the authors gave the president a fairly serious medical condition. Kudos for giving major characters disabilities and making them awesome! It was a super interesting plot. Check it out from the library for a good beach read. Please excuse typos/name misspellings. Entered on screen reader.
oh FUCK me, i might be a liberal but this makes my stomach churn.
This book is written from the point of view of the US president who believes that a terrorist attack is about to occur.
He goes missing and assumes a disguise to carry out a secret mission to save America.
Some chapters are also told from the point of view of a pregnant assassin.
Although the projected attack is cyberterrorism, this book devolves into a lot of shooting.
I have no idea whether Patterson always takes so long to get to the point, but the beginning of the book had a tremendous amount of needless details.
You will miss nothing.
I love James Patterson and all his books are always a fast read.
I bought this book when it came out on Monday and today it's Thursday and I am only on page 14 the beginning of chapter 2 because I keep finding things I could do instead of reading this book, like cleaning the toilet.
Funny thing is that I even skipped to the middle of the book and read a chapter and it's boring also.
I find it hard to believe that James Patterson had anything to do with this pile of garbage.
I read this book for my hometown book club. I really wanted to like this book and I did, but I didn't love it. I felt like it dragged on forever and could have finished wayyyy sooner. "As the novel opens, a threat looms. Enemies are planning an attack of unprecedented scale on America. Uncertainty and fear grip Washington. There are whispers of cyberterror and espionage and a traitor in the cabinet. The President himself becomes a suspect, and then goes missing..."
Having Clinton’s knowledge and experience gives us access into the inner working and secrets of the White House, the Cabinet, and other branches of the government in ways no one else can.
It started out in typical Patterson fashion with a bit of Clinton’s presidential experience sprinkled in; then moved into Mission Impossible mode with the President character doing his best impression of Tom Cruise’s Ethan Hunt under attack; followed by a dive into Dan Brown’s futuristic what-if-this happened and the world were forever changed discussion and conspiracy analysis with the President serving in Robert Langdon’s we’ll-figure-it-out role.
I won this book in a Goodreads giveaway in exchange for an honest review.Awhile ago, I swore I was done with James Patterson.
His mass production of books, the double spacing of pages, and the two page chapters were not for me anymore.
This phrase means that our country will be set back many years with its technology and this puts the president into action to stop a terrorist act.
Unfortunately, this part of the book did not last as the side with James Patterson took over.
Sadly, this was more of a James Patterson book with a little assistance from the former president.
No more James Patterson for me.
I may have giggled a bit when I picked it up.
I honestly wasn't expecting much from it, and only bought it for shits and giggles.So straight off the bat, I'm giving you 10 points for marketing.
I mean, its a typical James Patterson thriller.
I was intrigued by the story line, I'm a sucker for technological thrillers, and while this didn't really offer anything new in the genre, it was entertaining and well written.Am I glad I read this?
I mean, I can now say I read Clinton's fiction debut, and I can say with some certainty that its "Not Terrible".
This thriller is a pageturner if ever there was one.
It's one of those 'just one more chapter' books and, because the chapters are so short, before you know it you're reading late into the night.
Although it's not perfect (it is a little confused or predictable on occasion and there are a few presidential info dumps - on occasion Clinton does want to have his say), it's certainly entertaining and I was totally gripped.
I love political and/or action thrillers and so I was always going to read this and I'm very glad I did.
Review to follow shortly on For Winter Nights.
In this political thriller, the President is suspected of negotiating with a terrorist and the term impeachment is thrown around, the United States is under threat of a terrorist cyberattack, the President suffers from a serious medical condition, and there is a mole at the top level of the government.This novel had a lot happening in it.
This was a serious case of Gary Stu.As to be expected by a novel from James Patterson, this was a mostly fast-paced and exciting read.
Honestly, I wasn’t wowed with this latest James Patterson novel.
Update: 11-19-18- 7:28 pm Eastern Standard TimeI rated this wrong.
I give this one star not three.
Yes, I am GOP mix gal who is a Trump Supporter.
In the book it blames a certain group.
A group that many news outlet is blaming Trump for.
Yes, that was vague.
I decided I was not going to give a spoiler.Yes, this raw with no proofreading.
Those who want to judge my grammar, I do not give care.P.S When your Trump Supporter, you get used to hate emails, etc.
I've always been suspicious and skeptical of writers who turn themselves into corporations and start to use co-authors to further their brand, much of Tom Clancy's later work is a good example of this.
It was clear that they had a good time working together and that Patterson really got a charge out of working with Clinton like he knew he needed to bring his a game again.
These minor criticisms do not take away from the fact that this is a significant work of it's genre and while I may not read most Patterson novels I will definitely look forward to his future collaborations with ex- Presidents or other political figures.
So much better than I expected. My full review will be up on my booktube channel at http://YouTube.com/peterlikesbooks
The President was my hero and I hope this is a bright beginning to a series.
My wish list - A signed copy for my bookshelf.This story had it all from intrigue to on the edge of your seat moments that will hook you to the very end.Don’t be partisan!
Read because it’s a fantastic story and keep your red vs.
Spoiler alert - this story doesn’t get into what party the President is affiliated with.
And honestly, one would hope that any President regardless of party lines would always act selflessly for the benefit of our country.
Perhaps geeks can poke holes into the plot, but personally I found it to be a fast-paced, enjoyable read.
Also it serves as a cautionary tale about the vulnerability of our digital world in which many things from infrastructure to government are connected to the internet.
It seems pretty scary that our world could easily crumble from cyber-terrorist threats.
I enjoyed the ruthless pregnant female assassin character, even though she was villainous.
The take-away quote in the last chapter serves as a good idealist theme: "The American dream works when our common humanity matters more than our interesting differences and when together they create endless possibilities."
