https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/748029.Journey_in_the_Dark
Journey in the Dark won the Pulitzer in 1944 and interestingly seems to be a fairly unknown book I happened to find a copy in a library book sale for 50 cents and had I not been looking for Pulitzer's I would have passed it by.
It is the life story of Sam Braden who grows up poor in a town a couple hours outside of Chicago and vows to be rich like the Wyatt's who are the most prominent family in Wyattville.
However as he goes through life, his Journey in the Dark, the book is a cautionary tale that says you can have money but it doesn't buy the true happiness.
The story about a young man, Sam Braden, shaped by his earliest realization of being poor and following his life up and out of poverty to become a man of some prominence and influence.
The story itself is quite engaging and follows a pattern typical of much of the writing of the period: a kind of personal epic and the story of an unsung hero of the best of American values in a rapidly changing country.
Sam Braden, Mitch Ballou, Eileen Wyatt, Emelie Kranz, Nelly and Madge Braden, all have some surprising depth to them.The two main criticisms I have of the novel are that the narrative at time gets to be a bit jumpy and scattered.
Journey in the Dark chronicles the life of Sam Braden from his humble origins in Wyattville, Iowa to life as a successful businessman in 1920s and 1930s Chicago.
In some ways a typical rags to riches story, Journey in the Dark almost transcends the formula of its structure with its superb evocation of early 20th-Century America and Flavin's fluid and richly detailed prose.
While still a young boy, Sam Braden yearns for riches from the moment he understands that the poverty of his upbringing imposes limits on what he can do and what he can have.
This was an odd book.
Maybe the rags-to-riches plot line is a little too predictable, but I couldn't finish it.
It's the first time I can recall giving up on a book that qualified as easy reading based but still felt like work.
Too many cliched characters -- the suffering older spinster sister who gives up the man she loves to take care of her younger siblings (who weren't actually that much younger and could have managed without her), the unattainable rich girl, the useless slacker of a father, the hardworking mother who keeps the family afloat with her needlework skills -- and not enough real people.
This was the next Pulitzer Prize novel that Steve and I read.
Of course, as the pace picks up here in Sarasota as friends return to the resort, we have less time for reading, and that impacts the continuity when reading a story like this.
Eventually, about halfway through - Steve commented that "this is getting much more interesting!" and we were quite involved by the time we finished reading it.
The story of a poor boy who becomes a self-made man, and his journey and family relationships, loves and losses.
Well written - again, we could easily understand why the Pulitzer was awarded to this novel.
And now for my most superficial judgment ever: Having never even heard of this book before, nor its author, I must declare the book's description to be nightmarish and dreadful. The little badge on the cover too. Blech. Archetypal "literary" crap, I tells ya'! Title? Suck it. Musta sold a bazzillion.Am I right!?
It was okay. Generic writing, foreshadowed way too heavily for my taste, but not a bad book.
Journey in the Dark covers much of the life of Sam Braden and his family from the 1880s to 1942 when the book was written.
The Braden family ends up in Wyattville, Iowa, a town of very wealthy and very poor.
Though coming from a poor family, Sam works hard, gets breaks, takes risks and ends up a multi-millionaire.
His life, like others from Wyattville, comes full circle and he ends up back in his hometown.
A lot of history is coved in the novel: WWI, the sinking of the Titanic, the introduction of the automobile, the Great Depression, WWII.
This book had my attention from the start, and not just because I needed to take Claritin to read the old dusty copy I have. This story of Sam Braden, a poor Midwestern boy who achieves the American dream, is satisfyingly real and melodramatic at the same time. The author has a gift for giving away the end of each life phase but keeping you interested in the means. A lot of big ideas and enigmatic characters in this tale of the early 20th century.
I do not know what it was but this simple story i read in 3 days really stuck with me for days after reading and that does not happen to me very much. So this is up there with my favorites.
That is what I liked best about this book, there were no bad guys...everyone is likable, though imperfect, and honorable in their own way....humanity flawed and fumbling but reaching forward to the best of what makes us human.
The story follows the life of Sam, a simple boy born to a poor family, in a small town called Wyattville where the Wyatts are friends and neighbors and ideals of prosperity to aspire to.
At the age of 9 Sam first realizes that he is poor and the handicap that this position is in life, and decides that he will be rich someday.
This was part of my attempt to read all of the winners of the Pulitzer Prize for Novel/Fiction.
The winner for 1943, it was not easy to find.
I wound up getting a first edition copy on EBay for about ten bucks.
So my 75 year old copy of the book kind of smelled funky the whole time I was reading it.
It's too bad this one isn't more widely available as it gives a panorama of American life from the 1880s through the early 1940s.
But it is worth reading.
I've gone through 75 Pulitzer winners now, and this is in the upper half of them, I would say.
This is a tale of social classes; striving for something you will never attain; love; hate and regrets.
The most touching part of the book for me comes near the beginning when the main character, a young son in a poor family, comes into a financial windfall.
He decided to use the money to get his under-appreciated mother a Christmas gift instead of using it for something he really wanted.
For me this bitter-sweet scene made the book.
There are many other portions of the book which will hold your interest.
My one criticism is that the author relied on too many unbelievable coincidences to illustrate his points.
A wonderfully told story of a mans journey through life.
Sam Braden was born into poverty to parents who settled in a town because they had no more money to travel further.
As a young boy he was determined to be wealthy when he grew up and he eventually was able to achieve his goal.
The book relates the many ups and downs in his life.
It is told in a very low key style and could be considered by some as rather boring except I didn't find it that way.
Martin Flavin was able to tell the story in a way that kept me engrossed through the entire book.
This book was great. I highly recommend it to anyone who enjoys historical fiction. It's definitely in my top 20 list.
Journey in the Dark, by Martin Flavin was published in 1943 and won the Pulitzer Prize for fiction in 1944.The book follows the life of Sam Braden, born to a poor family in a small town in Iowa on the Mississippi river at the beginning of the 20th century.
It is not clear of Wang Lung ever discovers a larger meaning for his life - or even cares to.There was plot point that I felt never received proper closure, which I wondered if it might have been treated differently if the book had been written in a more modern era: Sam's relationship with Cassie, a beautiful African-American girl who grew up in the house next to his home.
When I picked this up, I thought, "Oh, another American novel of the century.
And when I got done, "Hey, this really is the quintessential American novel."This novel doesn't focus on race relations, but it doesn't ignore it either.
It isn't espousing a view of the right or the left; it has credible characters on both sides of the political fence.
And every character has room to grow; and does, or doesn't, depending on their path in the course of the story.
The story is, of course dated and bounded by it's setting (primarily) the first half of the 20th century.
Won the Pulitzer in 1944.
A Horatio Alger-type of story: poor boy gets rich. So, it could be quite predictable at times, even too good to be true. However, it remained compelling.
Read my full review here: http://thepulitzerblog.wordpress.com/...
Really good story!
