https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11741.Housekeeping
marilynne robinson's 'housekeeping', like all great literature, is a revelation.
robinson, of course, is a novelist, not a philosopher, and she's not in the business of telling us why we should or shouldn't go on, but of showing us how (and sometimes why) we do or don't.
'housekeeping' is nothing less than a narrative account of this most profound and universally relevant fact: the fact that we keep going, or that we don't, and how we do or don't (and sometimes why).***"there was not a soul there but knew how shallow-rooted the whole town was.
I was craving a book like this...had wanted to read it forever. I can't express how much I appreciate this book. The story itself had me in the palm of my hands. The writing was so rich and breathtaking- I felt like I was being taken out to an expensive fine-dining experience-- savoring every bite. No POV alternating chapters - not a long-winded 500 page novel. This powerful novel with many themes: family, loss, death, abandonment, unconventional lifestyles, small towns, with memorable characters - and an ending I never saw coming was only 219 pages! A PERFECT FLAWLESS NOVEL!!!!
They have been surrounded by death and loss: their grandfather died during a railroad accident on the rail bridge across the lake (representing a way out of the life in Fishbone - death or escape), their mother committed suicide by driving herself in a borrowed car off a cliff into the lake, their father walked off never to be heard from again and neither girl had memories of him, and their grandmother dies clutching at life in her sleep.
The motif of housekeeping is evoked by the pristine state of the awkward house built by the not-so-talented hands of their deceased grandfather while they are cared for by their two aunts Lily and Nona who escape as soon as another aunt Sylvie comes to take care of the girls.
I'll go ahead and split them into three groups, although all three bleed together: 1) I need to feel something at some point; 2) the prose should be exceptional in some way, which for me is actually very much tied into #1); 3) my understanding of humanity and myself should be expanded through contact with the characters and their minds.
When I say that I have limited access to these characters and this world, and that it ultimately felt untrue, here’s what I mean (this is Ruthie in the final pages of the book): I have never distinguished readily between thinking and dreaming.
What was that??The story, such as it is, and it really isn't, is that two little sisters are orphaned and then looked after by their grandmamma who ups and dies and then they are looked after by elderly great aunts (they were my favourites but alas they didn’t last long – I think they couldn’t wait to get out of this book too) and then by their mother’s sister Sylvie who is like this kind of elegant bag lady drifter who lets the house go to rack and ruin and cares not a fig if the girls go to school.
La vita nel petto di tutte le creature, umane animali e vegetali, forse batte piano, ma batte uguale in tutto e per tutti, con la certezza che il giorno come sempre sarà.L’housekeeping del titolo non è l’economia domestica, non le cure domestiche in senso stretto, ma nel senso più ampio: di fronte alla perdita, mantenere una rifugio spirituale per se stessi e la famiglia, per le ragazze che nel loro percorso di crescita sperimentano una serie di abbandoni.È tutto uno sparire: il nonno nel lago, la madre, la nonna, il padre più o meno ignoto, le prozie…La zia Sylvie, sorella minore della madre, che torna a casa per prendersi cura (non molto domestica) delle ragazze, si comporta come una sorella, maggiore solo per età anagrafica, ma certo non svolge la funzione materna.
And even though I marked and will later photocopy some passages, and I would gladly recommend Housekeeping to anyone up for a caliginous and meticulous exploration of loss, depth, and identity, I’d sure as hell point out the ride wasn’t going to be easy.
Housekeeping seems like the type of book I’d want to read again.
And although the psychological and metaphorical (I’m deathly afraid of drowning, thank you very much, and underwater metaphors lurk on just about every page) explorations are intense, the book will haunt me in ways that I can appreciate for the foreseeable future.
The story is replete with symbols that acquire mystical magnitude: a lake that floods the region recalling Biblical myths, the dark, dense woods of the nearby area, an abandoned house with a life of its own with ghostly children that only those who are in tune with silence can hear.The recurrent idea that we feel absent family members more keenly when they are gone resonates throughout the book with spiritual force; and the unfathomable deep waters of a lake become a kind of heaven where those we loved find shelter, never to return to us physically, although they remain forever present in our dreams and memories, evoking the best version of any alternative reality.
I'm going to throw the gauntlet down and say that I thought this book was terribly overrated considering how many of my friends--whose taste I've come to respect--recommended it to me.
That's about as poetic as "esophagus."I also thought the philosophical meanderings of Ruthie bordered on pretentiousness: "So memory pulls us forward, so prophecy is only brilliant memory--there will be a garden where all of us as one child will sleep in our mother Eve, hooped in her ribs and staved by her spine." Whenever it appeared, this vague, didactic prose seemed to stifle what little story there was.

About a girl who really hates to talk and never talks but the author can't stop babbling. She just goes on and on and on and on and on.The ending really sucks, just like the middle and the beginning.
Housekeeping ,c1980, Marilynne RobinsonHousekeeping is a novel by Marilynne Robinson, published in 1980.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: از روز دهم ماه آگوست سال 2015 تا روز هفدهم ماه آگوست سال 2016 میلادیعنوان: خانه داری (رمان)؛ نویسنده: مریلین رابینسون؛ مترجم: مرجان محمدی؛ تهران، آموت، 1393، در 272 ص، شابک: 9786006605395؛ نخستین رمان بانو: مریلین رابینسون، همین کتاب است، نقل از: پشت جلد کتاب: برنده ی جایزه کتاب ملی سال 2008 میلادی؛ برنده اورنج طلایی انگلیس در سال 2009 میلادی؛ نامزد جایزه ایمپک دوبلین در سا
‭Housekeeping ,c1980, Marilynne RobinsonHousekeeping is a novel by Marilynne Robinson, published in 1980.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: از روز دهم ماه آگوست سال 2015 تا روز هفدهم ماه آگوست سال 2016 میلادیعنوان: خانه داری (رمان)؛ نویسنده: مریلین رابینسون؛ مترجم: مرجان محمدی؛ تهران، آموت، 1393، در 272 ص، شابک: 9786006605395؛ نخستین رمان بانو: مریلین رابینسون، همین کتاب است، نقل از: پشت جلد کتاب: برنده‌ ی جایزه کتاب ملی سال 2008 میلادی؛ برنده اورنج طلایی انگلیس در سال 2009 میلادی؛ نامزد جایزه ایمپک دوبلین در سال 2010 میلادی؛ بهترین کتاب سال واشنگتن پست؛ پرفروش‌ترین کتاب نیویورک تایمز؛ بهترین کتاب سال و برنده جایزه کتاب لوس‌ آنجلس تایمز؛ بهترین کتاب از طرف روزنامه سان فرانسیسکو کرونیکل، بزرگترین روزنامه شمال کالیفرنیا.
شربیانی
Robinson herself does not think any of her women are fundamentally crazy, but they do endure some trauma, of course.What are the ripple effects of this trauma for Helen, Sylvie, Lucille and Ruth, of having lived through tragic death?
In the process of our answering these questions, we meet along the way, usually just briefly, literally dozens of often (seemingly?) broken women, seen by Ruthie and Lucille and Ruth on passing trains, or talked to on trains by Sylvie, who was a drifter, a transient, a hobo.
Another reviewer labeled this book as good for "Women who love descriptive writing." Well.
I loved this book, so either I'm due for an identity crisis or someone here is a little misguided about writing and gender.
She recounts the story of his children, her mother among them, who forever live in the shadow of his mysterious and surprising death, and then tells us of the day her mother left her and her sister at their grandmother's house and promptly drove her car off of the same bridge, into the same lake, in an act of suicide.
I have been thinking about this book since I finished reading it and still am unsure what to say.
I believe it has some of the finest prose I've read....causing me frequently to stop, go back, read again once, twice, or more, before I continued with the story.
There are parts that are woefully sad, in fact the story is one of total sadness and trying to eke out a life through the melancholy.
Or it was at my conception."(p214) Thus begins the final pages of the story, some of the most beautiful writing I've ever experienced.
I want to copy these last pages out here and read every day.
Languid Days.
School Days.
A film that would've made you intensely cold in the (mostly vacant) movie theater if you'd watched it there..."Housekeeping" comes from this long tradition of literary accounts of very eccentric /antisocial/neurotic/depressive Aunts.
It is a theme that has pervaded through lit history (from Great Expectations to Cider With Rosie, The Romantics, heck, even in Perks of Being a Wallflower!).
But, like the protagonist in this very solid coming-of-age IDYLL, we too want, anticipate, covet for something to occur for once...
for SOME great event to finally transpire...
I finished this book last week and have been traveling through its landscape ever since, much like Sylvie rode her railcars from town to town.
Lucille and Ruthie are bereft of their mother through her suicide, they are raised by their grandmother, left to their two bumbling great-aunts and finally left to somehow find their way with their off-key aunt, Sylvie.
Lucille sees in Sylvie a foreign creature and Ruthie sees a reflection of herself.
I found myself rooting for the underdogs and despairing of hope for them in the same breath.If Marilynne Robinson had written only this novel, she would have cemented her place among the great writers of her time.
Look at that. And it’s not Versailles. It’s a brick wall with a ray of sunlight falling on it.A summary of Marilynne Robinson's aesthetic in The Paris Review emphasises the ability of an artist to make us view the quotidian with a sense of wonder. It's what she does, it's what her characters experience, it imbues them and us with a sense of the numinous in everyday life.  One evening one summer she went out to the garden. The earth in the rows was light and soft as cinders, pale clay yellow, and
The earth in the rows was light and soft as cinders, pale clay yellow, and the trees and plants were ripe, ordinary green and full of comfortable rustlings.
And above the pale earth and bright trees the sky was the dark blue of ashes.
For a while she sang "Mockingbird Hill," and then she sat down beside me in our ruined stronghold, never still, never accepting that all our human boundaries were overrun.Lucille would tell this story differently.
Lucille is the one who cannot accept that her boundaries are overrun.
I picked up Housekeeping initially at an airport bookstore, but couldn't bring myself to pay the more than full price they were asking. It took me months to remember to order it, which I regret on several levels. Dark, oddly twisted, Robinson managed to suck me into this strange world. Housekeeping is a book that manages to haunt me still every time I see it on my shelf or think of it.
Robinson develops settings so well—all the way from state down to city, home, and the internal monologue of our narrator, Ruth.
The novel ponders themes of isolation, home life, transience and familial relationships, but doesn't necessarily deliver a strong verdict on any of these things.
But Ruth is so naive and self-conscious and unsure of everything in life, which makes her a great observer but a rather dull narrator.
Her Aunt Sylvie was far more fascinating, and I almost wish we had read from her perspective, or switched to hers halfway through.
نیرویی که زمان را به حرکت در میآورد ماتمی است که از میان نمیرود. از این رو است که اولین اتفاق را هبوط میخوانند و امیدوارند که آخری، صلح باشد و رجعت. حافظه اینگونه ما را به جلو میبرد و پیشگویی پیامبران فقط حافظهای درخشان است؛ باغی خواهد بود که همهی ما به شکل یک کودک، در وجود مادرمان حوّا خواهیم خوابید و در حلقهی دندهها و زیر فشار مهرههایش خرد خواهیم شدخانهداری برخلاف اسم گول زنندهاش، بیش از آنکه داستانی دربارهی خانه و خانواده باشد، روایت بیخانمانی و زوال یک خانواده و انزوای زنان آن است. شخصیتهای
پس از این ماجراها، پیوسته این سوال در ذهنم بود که ماجرا آبستن چه حادثه‌ای است و دریاچه‌ی کذایی قرار است چه بر سر روت، خواهرش لوسیل و خاله‌اش سیلوی بیاورد؟ گویا دریاچه به مثابه‌ی طبیعت وحشی زنانه، مانند آهن‌ربا پیوسته آن‌ها را به سوی خود می‌کشاند.
اما روت به راهنمایی سیلوی به امید دیدن کودکانی وحشی در سوی دیگر آب، با قایقی از دریاچه عبور می‌کند و در سفری یک روزه و شهودی، به مکاشفه‌ای پنهان می‌رسد که باقی ماجرا و زندگی‌اش را کاملا تحت‌الشعاع قرار می‌دهد: ترک مدرسه، آتش زدن خانه و فرار با سیلوی از پل فراز دریاچه.
The prose was often beautiful, even poetic -- but it left me cold.
Sometimes there was so much literary showboating, that it often felt like I was reading an MFA thesis project.
This felt like words that were strung together, because they “sounded pretty,” or seemed “deep,” but for me, they failed to evoke any emotion or impression of profundity.
At some point while I was reading this, I thought “OK, this might be a three star book.” Despite my complaints, this book does have some positive attributes, (the aesthetics of the prose, chiefly).
And then I didn’t feel like reading it anymore.
Every episode represented a world of longing, so utterly beautifull. Longing to be like the others (Lucille), longing to being loved (Ruthie) and longing to a world of transcience and dwelling (Sylvie). On some places the longings meet each other while sometimes they collide. But the result is a magnificent novel about major feelings in one's life, all told in this slow, 'perceptive', strong language.
When she remembered that we were there and that we were children she sometimes tried to make her stories useful. This is a highly regarded and much accredited piece, judging by the lists and the prizes and the place among the few females on many a personal favorite and/or grudgingly obliged pedestal. This is also a target of the Emperor's Clothing logos, judging from the MFA appraisals and sentence length critiques and the usual waving about a book like a dog worrying at tissue and string. I'll
One piece of evidence of this work's "modern classic" status is how I have returned to my old style of reviewing, quotes and Docs and page numbers acknowledging bubbles of thought that cannot be explicated thoroughly enough by the echo chambers of my brain.
It's not a distinction of quality but an indicator of difference, as my appreciation here is more academic than self-retrieved and thus requires the comfort of Ye Olde Microsoft, wherein I first came across the concept of habitus.
“What are you doing?” Lucille asked.“This dictionary is full of pressed flowers,” I said.“Grandpa.”“He put lady’s slippers under O.
Marilynne Robinson shrugged and thought "Maybe I'll write a book" and then just did it, in longhand, and then she showed it to her friends who lost their minds, and one of them was an author whose agent pounced on it and she got a call, like, "This is brilliant, get ready to be famous," and she was like "Oh, okay." The deep woods are as dark and stiff and as full of their own odors as the parlor of an old house.
It was 25 years before Robinson felt like writing another book.She's compared to Melville.
"I thought that if I could write a book that had only female characters that men understood and liked, then I had every right to like Moby-Dick," she says, and it's hard to find a piece about Robinson that doesn't mention Melville too.
She thinks of her younger sister, Lucille; of her mother, Helen, dead by suicide; of her great-aunts, Misses Lily and Nona Foster who used to live like moles in an underground house and who now live as permanent transients in a hotel; of Mrs. Sylvia Foster of Fingerbone, Idaho, her grandmother; and of especially her aunt, Mrs. Sylvia Fisher (who eventually caught Ruth in her net).
Her thoughts are like a meandering creek, bubbling briefly over rocks, sliding a little rough over sand, but never looking beyond or forward for herself.The narration, a coming-of-age memoir, is as if Ruth were in a state of numb mental shock, but her mother Helen, her grandmother Sylvia, and her grandfather Edmund all died some time ago.
Marilynne Robinson won great praise a couple years ago for "Gilead," and much was made of the fact that it had been 23 years since she had written her first novel, "Housekeeping." While this was an evocative tale about a family in an isolated rural area and the writing was often poetic, I found it a struggle to get through. Heavy on atmospherics and light on plot, it was the kind of book where I often found myself nodding off on mid-page. Not my cup of tea.
Bellissima la prima parte, splendida la presentazione delle due cognate Lily e Nona alle quali piacevano solo le vecchie abitudini e le cose familiari e per questo inadatte a vivere in quel paese in balìa delle intemperie, dove anche le reti anti-uragano erano così inadeguate che sembravano “essere messe lì per catturare sacchetti di carta e stagnole di caramelle portate dal vento”, così ben descritte – le cognate - che sembrano essere le comparse principali del romanzo, ma poi si fanno dimenticare.

Housekeeping has a distancing voice--brittle, isolationist and isolating--and the book is steeped in both death and its premonition, life seen as an unforgiving and unforgiveable thing tolerable only in ritualization or complete letting go.Somehow, though, it remains also one of most humane and often even humorous books I know, still gentle in its ironies, humane and sympathetic in its treatment of the women and girls who make up the whole of the book, all of them suicides or suicides waiting to happen, all of them alone and adrift (sometimes literally).The prose is as dense as anything I've read, not because difficult to read but because unflinching in its concision, with as much meaning packed into a sentence as in one of Proust's, is lyrically rich and a near-constant smack to the sinuses.
