https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2965619-sleeping-beauty
Whenever I think of Walt Disney I remember sleeping beauty one of the best stories that never seems to age. Loved the book and the film that really bought this story to life much to the delight of children both big and small. My children and grandchildren love sleeping beauty. One of our favourite classic stories. Recommended.
My love of reading started when i was young, and it gives me immense pleasure to provide books to Spread the Word Nevada, an organization that passes them on to children in the community.
Sometimes I'll find a book I remember reading when I was young and will read it again before passing it on.I don't rate these books using my normal scale, instead I give most of them three stars.
This isn't a Criticism of the book, simply my way of rating them as good for children.
My all-time favorite Disney story--not for the storyline or plot, but for the art, which for its time was tops. And the heroine is gorgeous, too (You will recognize Audrey Hepburn's eyes in Aurora's face)!
like the book, but enjoy the movie more.
Sleeping Beauty is a tale f a princess who has a spell cast on her by a witch. True love eventually breaks the spell and she ends up living happily ever after with her princess. This classic tale is one that is often well known throughout various generations. The illustrations depicted are simplistic in nature and depict a simpler time devoid of computer animation. Lessons that could be taught to school age children from the story include compromise, being a good friend, and happiness for others.
Oddly enough, I never saw the movie when I was younger, I only owned the book. So I always knew about the tale of Sleeping Beauty. I just always thought it was just a book. A good book though, with nice illustrations (that’s Disney for you), and a classic fairy tale.
Review to follow!
Old classic written simple and smart for kids!Collecting for my little one and myself :-)
Hmm. Well. This is another children's book made by Disney that skips some stuff. The only difference seems to be that the author, whoever the actual person was, decided to do the 'tell the reader it happened' thing instead of the 'let them read through the thing that happens' thing. Not entirely a bad read aside from the cardinal sin of mentioning that a song was being sung, but neglecting to mention what the song is called or any recognizable lyrics. Hmm... 2 stars.
I loved this story when I was younger. This book is a great choice for small children to read. It isn't too difficult and it has great pictures.
Hav loved it!
I enjoyed this book a lot as a kid, it made me want to be a princess. I love the illustration because it made me want to go on an adventure.
Me gusta
What will you bring me today, Nostalgia?
Ohhh, this Sleeping Beauty book I used to have as a child because I was so mesmerized by the pictures, even though ironically I actually never saw the movie as a child?
That's the closest to magic and time-travel man has ever come (that we know of).My favorite picture is the one where after everybody is asleep, they show the animals on the farm asleep, and there are two dogs (they look like spaniels), one resting his head on top of the other.
It is the most precious thing.And of course, Malificent (and her bird).
Libro para Los Juegos de Booktube: Leer un libro infantil.Me gustó el libro, la historia tuvo fantasía, fue corta (se lee en menos de 2 horas) y linda, con unas ilustraciones a color geniales y me entretuvo pero tuve serios problemas con el INSTALOVE y es que hubo DEMASIADO!
Fue muy exagerado que Aurora y Felipe como con 5 minutos de haberse medio saludado ya se sintieran "enamorados" y que con menos de una hora ya afirmaran querer casarse y juraran que ya NUNCA MÁS iban a querer a otra persona y NO, simplemente NO!
En fin, aún así la historia se disfrutó!
I read this aloud to Natalie in a couple of sittings. While she is still too young to enjoy this story, it will make a nice bed time story or reliving of the movie when she is older. I liked how the illustrations captured some of the best visuals of the movie, especially the dragon, but overall the artwork was not as high quality as the movie. While not excellent children's literature, this is a satisfying telling of a classic fairy tale.
Classic Disney tale about a wicked fairy who casts a spell on a princess, Aurora, that if she pricks her finger on a spindle of a spinning wheel before her 16th birthday, she will die. A good fairy quickly cast another spell, that if the wicked spell happened, Aurora would fall into a slumber and a kiss from a true love would awaken her. I think everyone knows what happened next, she pricks her finger, falls into a deep slumber and is kissed by a prince, her true love.
Lovely illustrations in this adaptation of Disney's Sleeping Beauty, which focuses more on events that occur with the prince than with Aurora herself. Still, though, children who are fans of this tale and movie are sure to enjoy this. Recommended.
JE-Dis
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/13855735
لطيفة ...
I read this with both my children.
My second favorite princess
It's a nice Walt Disney classic.
He elegido este libro como "libro de mi infancia" para un reto de lectura que estoy haciendo este año. Me ha traído muchísimos recuerdos, no puedo darle una mala nota. :)
I loved this book. It is a longer book but the kids loved it with pictures. They also liked it because it was made into a movie.
retelling of the movie with movie stills
I've had this one since I was little, and for some odd reason it's stuck around despite all my other childhood books disappearing. So now it's on the shelf with the rest of my baby's books.
I was reading this to my son. First time I have ever read this. Good one. :-)
It you think I'm a sucker for Seuss than I'm really a sucker for Walt Disney. I love Sleeping Beauty, the Disney version.
