https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30359.Bittersweet_Rain
Or maybe not. I have been on a bit of a SANDRA BROWN binge. Mostly reading her newer books. This was an older one... think it might be at least 20 years old, If I read it back in the day, I probably would have loved it. Saying that, I have read some of her older books and really liked them but there was something about this one that did not do it for me.  Caroline Dawson survived the town gossips who whispered behind her back. She survived the slow death of her husband, Roscoe Lancaster, the ric
Saying that, I have read some of her older books and really liked them but there was something about this one that did not do it for me.
But she feared she might not survive Rink Lancaster, her husband's son.
Years before she married, when she and Rink were teens, he had introduced Caroline to her first tremulous taste of love - and then broke her heart.
was it released by her under another name I wonder or maybe I just read a similar storyline....I will check out some of her older stuff but her newer books really do it for me...
roflSouthern Gothic at its most lurid as in shades of Tennessee Willliams and just a tad Eugene O’Neil and Faulkner…Incest, father vs son, rich man/poor girl, fey young sisters, small town secrets, small town gossips, social strata issues, etc and so forthRoscoe aka Big Daddy/Violet Venable: He’s the hero’s father and is married to the heroine.
Now married to Big Daddy, the Mrs. Kravits of the town won’t let her forget it and Rink is there for some punishing kisses only after he drinks his Bourbon.A punishing kiss...Oops.
2.5-starsThis book is 32-year-old, so I was prepared for some eye-rolling moments.
Reading that premise got me curious how Sandra Brown could pull off the story without weirding me out.
I feel a bit guilty for liking this book more than I expected.
Some elements in there remind me of the southern tales I have read recently that centered around family secrets, betrayal, evil dad.
It seems certain drama in the book still works like a charm.
Trigger: (view spoiler)[ The backstory about a new college graduate H falling in love with h, who was only 15-year-old at the time really weird me out!#gaaag#  (hide spoiler)]
Caroline was the daughter of the town drunk who always craved more, she graduated college from a mysterious donation and when she came back after some time she married Rink's father and took care of his special daughter.There is also a romance between the handicapped Vietnam vet and the daughter.We find out that it was Rink's father who kept them apart due to his manipulations but never managed to kill their love.
Caroline refuses to tell him the truth of her marriage since she wants Rink to love her beyond that and accept her, and he did.
★★★✩ Very few authors could pull this off all this angst.
★★★½✩ Very few authors could pull this off all this angst.
All the freaking misunderstandings and NO ONE ever clears things up. Lol. However, this was classic!!! Loved it.
Novel yang bertema agak tidak biasa ini sudah membuat aku kagum akan semua aspeknya.Berawal dari kepulangan Rink, tuan muda Lancaster Gin ke kota Winstonville yang masih konvensional dimana penduduknya masih suka dengan gossip di sore hari dengan cangkir teh di tangan mereka, semua tidak pernah sama lagi setidaknya bagi Caroline Dawson Lancaster, mantan kekasihnya duabelas tahun yang lalu sekaligus, ehemm, ibu tirinya.
Rahasia yang akan membuat Anda penasaran sampai tetes terakhir.Saya sangat merekomendasikan karya Sandra Brown yang satu ini.
Good read. Complicated relationship in a small town where tongues love to wag. Profoundly satisfying when the two main characters finally get together.
Mi-a facut placere sa citesc aceasta carte. Mi-a amintit de scrierile de alta data ale autoarei. O poveste de dragoste dulce si incitanta
Two-haiku review:They fell in love youngTorn apart by circumstanceEach thought other wrongVery bad villainCan't understand so much hateDated but still good
The step daughter is 5 years younger than her but her mind is that of a child.Rink, the son, has always stated he'd take care of Laura Jane.
She doesn't understand why he doesn't live with them.The raising of the thoroughbreds is an industry that Roscoe loved.
Others now run it for him and Laura Jane shows love interest in the manage, Steve.She and Rink had been together in their younger days, but Rink got another girl pregnant.Story goes back in time and we learn just how close they were...
Interesting to learn how Roscoe manipulated all their lives.
It was sexy and funny.So if you want to read a small beautiful romance this is the right book for you.Caroline and Rink are so different, but made for each other.
They were separated for 12 years and now they meet again.
From the moment of their first meeting after all these years you can see they are right for each other.
Even when they are angry or hurt.Carolines husband - Rinks father made everything he can to keep them apart.
He payed for Carolines college so if Rink come back after his divorce.
In Sandra Brown's classic romance, Bittersweet Rain, she warmed your heart and soul with this sweet tale of romance with a hint of intrigue.
For Caroline Dawson, she survived the town gossips who whispered behind her back, and the slow death of her husband, Roscoe Lancaster, the richest man in the county and three decades her senior.
But she feared she wouldn't survive his son, Rink Lancaster.
Before she married his father, they were young lovers as teens, when he broke her heart.
Now he's back to settle his father's estate; while he was driven by a storm of undeniable emotions, he wants to settle the score with Caroline.
This is a quick read with not too many surprises, but you may find a few beneath the covers as Carolyn Dawson, a girl from the wrong side of the tracks, finds herself married to an older, rich man, When he dies, his son Rink, who Carolyn knows from years ago, comes back into her life things are going to change and the heat is turned on. I have read other books from this author which I enjoyed more, but readers, especially of romance, will find this a quick, passion filled read.
Satu lagi novel SB yang cetak ulang cover baru.Hubungan Caroline dengan Rink lumayan pelik. Mereka dahulu sepasang kekasih. Namun, Rink pergi meninggalkan Caroline dan menikah dengan gadis lain. Sementara itu, Roscoe - ayahnya Rink- justru menikahi Caroline. Sekarang ketika suaminya hampir meninggal, Caroline harus menghadapi kembali Rink yang sudah pergi bertahun-tahun lamanya.Konfliknya seru, apalagi bukan hanya semata-mata konflik antara Rink dan Caroline yang dibahas. Ada juga Laura Jean dan Steve yang diam-diam saling mencintai. Soal adegan romannya, SB sudah terbuktilah.
Caroline met Rink (yep, his name was Rink) 12 years ago and they fell in love.
Rink moved away married to someone else.
Years later, just to spite his son, he married Caroline, who had never stopped loving Rink.
Now, before you go getting all squeeked out about Caroline marrying the daddy after loving the son and then being with the son again, trust me.
I wouldn't lead you down the road to read a book that would make your tummy turn in that way.
just read the book and find out why it's ok :) oh!
So much angst. I didn't hate it, but I can't stand a story in which the lovers are kept apart by circumstances (in this case Rink's father). I especially hate it when there is bitterness and anger on either side of the couple and nobody sits down to actually talk it out - of course if they did that there wouldn't be a story. It was great watching them come together, but I don't like the discomfort caused by the angst.
I have the vague memory that I read this book when it first came out. It was pretty good but I was a bit uncomfortable with Rink as a 21 year old being so in love with a 15 year old. At least it turned out he didn't actually sleep with her. It was a pretty good book but the hero and heroine could have been developed a bit more fully. Liked the secondary romance too. A decent read.
This book sure had it's steamy parts but there were some storylines that were just a smidge creepy when you look at it as a whole. The age differences in a couple scenarios and the woman with the little girl mind had to be skipped in a couple of parts as well. I like Sandra Brown so I'm not giving it a two-star rating, but I hope the next books I read aren't quite so controversial in my mind.
This was my third Sandra Brown novel and my least favourite of the three. (Low Pressure and Slow Heat in Heaven). I found this one to be predictable and because the sex scenes are so frequent, the author seems to be struggling for new and exciting ways to describe "the act". I can't recommend it.
Rink's father was a sick guy(he was diagnosed with cancer+he was really a mean asshole) I was like,die already you, psycho.Rink was absent from home for twelve years and when he returned as his father was dying, the feelings that he and Caroline had for each other rekindled.
Caroline did not cheat on her husband although her attraction towards Rink was there.She had to deal with a dying husband and a jealous ex boyfriend which was not easy especially since the guys were related..
Rink dan Caroline adalah contoh nyata cinta sejati, tidak perlu alasan kenapa kamu mencintai dia.Berawal dari perkenalan mereka di dekat sungai, cinta bersemi begitu cepatnya.
Konflik terjadi ketika ayah Rink mengetahui bahwa anaknya telah jatuh cinta pada Caroline.
Roscoe adalah sosok pria kejam kesepian yang menghukum Rink dengan menikahi Caroline.
Pernikahan mereka membuat Rink memutuskan untuk pergi dari rumah dan kembali ketika Roscoe sudah sekarat.
Tanpa Rink sadari, cintanya pada Caroline lebih besar dari harga dirinya sebagai anak tiri yang meyukai ibu tirinya.
Rink mendapatkan keraguan akan cintanya ketika dua orang penduduk kota melecehkan Caroline dengan kata kata mereka.
1.5 The premise grabbed me but I found some of the plot choices and characteristics to be problematic.
I never got over the age difference from when they first met and “fell in love”.
The whole plot regarding Roscoe was over the top and made me go “WTF!?!?!” The secondary romance was questionable.
I can’t relate to the cotton industry and small town plot devices.
It got too over the top for me.
I’m sure I would have enjoyed it when it first came out but most of the plot points were too much for me.
Das Buch ist richtig schnell zu lesen. Die Story geht zügig voran, die Protagonisten sind gut und die Plot-Twists auch. Roscoe konnte ich von Anfang an nicht leiden und wurde in meiner Meinung nur bestätigt. Es ist kein Bestseller (dafür ist es ein bisschen zu platt) aber man kann einen guten Abend damit verbringen!
I read this one to fulfill one of the reading challenges...I guess now I know why I never read romance. There is a point where "in good taste" actually ends, and "trashy" begins. I can't even say that I read it all because I skipped over so many of the "love scenes". Check my box....done.
I enjoyed the book, and having a double romance was a bonus. However, since Caroline was always so worried about what everyone thought of her, I found it implausible that she would announce that she was pregnant out-of-wedlock in front of a whole auditorium full of people.
The book is beautifully written. I do like the way it story flows, back and forth. What's more is that despite the leading male is a jerk, but I really like the female, Caroline. She and I could be a really good friends.
This book was everything I imagined an older romance novel would be. Full of cheesy lines and out of date erotic descriptions. The overall story wasn't bad, but after the main point is made the story drags on and left me rolling my eyes. Sandra Brown should stick with thrillers and mysteries.
This was an audiobook. The hero was given a very unpleasant voice that made it hard to like him. The villain was so totally evil he was not believable. There was too much detailed sex. Not Brown's best book.
As good as all of this author's books.This was a quick moving and captivating book. The reader is sorry when the book ends. This is Sandras usual captivating plot. Her books are never disappointing.
