https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/62811.Forbidden_Colors
His views on Japan's shift to a more materialist and individualistic culture for reasons like the attempt to appear beautiful actually come at the cost of the loss actual beauty make a compelling case.Mishima was a bad-ass.
Japan is still considerably repressive towards homosexuality, especially in men and I found that the behaviours and beliefs of many homosexuals could genuinely end up despising women as a result which was evident throughout the novel.This is not a quick read, Mishima took his time to ensure that all the characters throughout the story were crafted beautifully which allowed him to create some considerably memorable scenes that he managed to pull off without appearing far-fetched.

Then, throughout the rest of the novel, Shunsuké basically uses Yuichi's good looks to get him to seduce and emotionally destroy the very women who emotionally destroyed him.It's, clearly, a pretty angry book.
Mishima somewhat addresses this pre-"gay rights" homosexual dilletantism late in the book, once Yuichi starts sleeping with Kawada, who is some important financial worker:"The homosexual of promise, whoever he is, is one who recognizes that certain manliness within himself, and loves it, and holds fast to it, and the masculine virtue that Kawada recognized in himself was his ever-ready nineteenth-century predilection for diligence.
The book starts as it means to go on, with a rather grotesque display of womanizing, which is passed on and on and on (in various guises) through other characters, each time ramping up the knock-on effects, and thus the book continually stirs the pot of human greed, weakness, destruction and fake-love into such vile-looking substance, it's a miracle that Mishima manages to keep the beauty and grace of his writing centre-stage.
with the characters and plot looking like a rotting joint of meat, Mishima garnishes it with flowers of such transfixing intoxication, it reads like a lavish banquet.
Everyone falls in love with him, and the reader is pretty much the only person who doesn't get to bang him.
Mishima loves Yuichi too much for anything really bad to happen to him, but there's the threat that weird Shunsuke will win.
Shunsuke tries to push Yuichi too far, but Mishima keeps him beautiful and keeps us in love with him.
Like an Asian version of that Athena poster, but less cheesy."He saw the golden hair of the man’s chest protruding from a gap in his shirt and felt as if he were being embraced by a great hornet."On childbirth: "Yasuko's lower body moved like the mouth of a person vomiting.""To samurai and homosexual the ugliest vice is femininity.""After Yuichi left, however, this middle-aged nobleman would be struck by mindless passion.
If he 'weakens', he may be denied access to his true nature for ever.This is the fascination of the book - to see how a pure beauty without apparent moral content creates a range of desires and 'wants' in others within a society that is layered with codes on what is acceptable or is not acceptable, wholly unlike our own in the West.It is no accident that the sophisticated novelist with a broad education brings cruelties and small evils into the world of Yuichi, whereas Yuichi merely acts, like an animal, according to his rather limited range of needs.
رواية ممتعة بكل المقاييس، ليس العمل الأخير الذي سأقرأه بإذن الله للروائي، والمسرحي، والمؤلف والممثل المنتحر كرهًا للشيخوخة وتحيزًا للشباب، يوكيو ميشيما.
Mishima lived his s&m, militaristic, uber-masculine/gay fantasies. In his 20s he bared his feelings in this troubling, often astonishing, novel where desire is an evil spirit to get drunk on. Life, as he sees it, is a deceptive "show" in false face, headlining nakedplayers in a series of tableaux depicting Beauty, Sex, Death. And the show, which spotlights lovelessness in Loveland, must always go on.
The whole personnel of "Forbidden Colours" is floating between the classic poles that make up the world of ideas measured by Mishima: Youth and old age, beauty and ugliness, tradition and modernity, body and mind, homosexuality and heterosexuality (and of course there's suicide, too).
Rather, the text remains ambiguous and abstract by reflecting and discussing the author's obsession with the power that lies within youth and beauty and the sovereignty he ascribed to "death through action" (meaning suicide).
Power relations between men women as well as men and men are played out through the course of action, always developing and shifting, changing shapes but never profoundly changing their character.
He'll never love women!
So there, women!").
More than that, it's a bewildering, fascinating exploration of Japan's postwar world, not just the gay side of things, either, although for fans of Mishima, like me, it was instructive, the level of his "research" since his widow and children famously try to deny that he ever had relationships with men (he obviously did).Spirit and body are the battlegrounds for the various characters as they seek out love and meaning.
Much more than a "Should I be gay?" kind of story, more of an intense exploration of personal suffering at the hands of others.
Begin with his first book, CONFESSIONS OF A MASK, then read THE TEMPLE OF THE GOLDEN PAVILION, which is another great early book.
Then read the four classic novels he wrote just before he died, SPRING SNOW, RUNAWAY HORSES, THE TEMPLE OF DAWN, and DECAY OF THE ANGEL.FORBIDDEN COLORS is from the "sagging middle" of Mishima's career.
There's lots of bitter, brilliant insight into the every day lives of homosexuals, but not as much drama, color, and spectacle as in the last great novels, when Mishima was consciously creating a series of timeless masterpieces that would capture all of the Japanese character, not just the concerns of one small group.
If a greater misogynist than Shunsuké exists in literature then I don't want to meet him.
I don't know if I can say I "liked" the book, but I did enjoy reading it and found it to be mostly immersive (though I could've done without the paragraphs upon paragraphs of uninterrupted philosophizing dialogue — I get it, you're making a point about ART!).
Read this one if you like Mishima and/or the idea of double lives in response to societal strictures (just maybe skip all the misogynistic scenes).
قصة انتقام رجل حانق على جنس النساء بسبب تجارب سيئة مر بها في السابق.الرواية تتحدث عن بداية انتشار ال
A book at turns both scorning and beautiful. The collision of the ideals of beauty and the ugliness of life.
Je me suis accrochée. Rudement. Le début me plaisait, la laideur des sentiments et de la vieillesse, la complexité d'être homosexuel au Japon dans les années folles,... Mais la lenteur, pourtant si bien écrite et développée ne fut pas pour moi. Une lecture que j'aurais apprécié finir, mais à quoi bon m'entêter lorsque même le corps ne suit plus et s'épuise à la moindre de ces lectures. Je laisse le bonheur des mots aux autres pour celui-ci. D'autres livres m'attendent à mon chevet et peut être une autre perle d'une hauteur autre que celle-ci !
Certainly one of the most impressive novels that I have read in awhile now.
Un relato sencillo, con una narración atrapante y un mensaje enfermizo.Un misógino conoce a un cínico y de ese encuentro surge el proyecto de crear una obra de arte que trascienda el campo de la materialidad para alcanzar el "espiritu".
El tema de la "espiritualidad" se toca constantemente sin dejar bien en claro al lector que se quiere decir con esa palabra.
:( Esperaba mucho más del libro. Carece de nudo y clímax, lo cual hace que el libro se disfrute menos. Al igual yo ya andaba haciéndome a la idea que iba a pasar algo entre Shunsunké y Yuichi pero no pasó nada. Al igual todo termina muy rápido. De la nada sucedió tal cosa que te quedas paralizado que cómo rayos pudo pasar cuando algo bueno y que querías pudo haber acontecido... Me gustó en general... Pero no lo suficiente para ganarse más de 3 estrellas.
One brief go reference: "Just that much was said, with eyes never wavering from Yuichi's face; each word, every syllable, was pronounced with deliberation, like placing a stone in a game of go".
One of Yukio Mishima's best novels!
" ولسخرية القدر ظهر الشعور بالفشل على شانسوكي وكان خطيرا جدا . لقد بدأ شانسوكي يشعر بالحب تجاه يوشي "
Ahora tengo web y allá comento sobre este y otros libros: letrasdesordenadas.com
A classic piece of early, formative-period Mishima, which didn't blow me away quite like later works, but was still solid in its Mishima-icity. It was probably all 2 EDGY 4 U back in the '50s, and was in certain parts, clearly designed to scandalize some of the more staid and formalist traditions in Japanese literature. But I did enjoy it, even if the pieces about the nature of "the homosexual" made me groan. The characters were compelling enough to allow me to forgive Mishima's untimely meditations -- something he would get much better at as his career went on.
I just finished reading Forbidden Colors by Yukio Mishima, and I do not really know how I feel about it.There were various points in the novel where I wanted to throw my book across the room in frustration.
He gets outed to his family by a vindictive old man after going out with said old man’s adopted “son” (aka kept boy) Minoru, and he just brings in a woman whose life he basically destroyed (and whose husband he was having an affair with).
He will pay Yuichi ¥500,000 if he marries Yasuko while also living a double-life of gay affairs, as a kind of puppet for the elderly author: his final creation to cap off a career mostly spent belittling women in prose.
By modern standards there’s a great deal that is repulsive in the author’s presentation of promiscuous gay culture, yet there is also a great deal of care and depth languished over the loving feelings of characters both gay and straight.
El color prohibido narra la historia de un escritor que en el ocaso de su vida conoce a un joven de poderosa belleza y pureza, quien no siente atracción –ni afecto– hacia las mujeres, razón por la cual el escritor se identificará con el joven y le ofrecerá llevar a cabo un plan en el cual ambos se vengarán de algunas mujeres por medio del atractivo del joven.Sin entrar en detalles en la trama de la obra, el libro me resulta agotador por dos motivos.
However, his widow would not allow Schrader and his production team to use the book in the film, so they were reduced to using a novel, Kyoko's House, as a replacement since it also had some of Mishima's themes about beauty and ugliness, life and death, but was essentially missing the double life and homosexuality of the former as well as the themes of youth and aging.
A beautiful, callow youth, Yuichi, is employed to take revenge against two former loves of an aging author, Shunsuke.
I have never seen a plot like this: an ugly old writer, Shunsuke, who has been embittered and burned in relationships with women takes a young attractive gay man, Yuichi, under his wing.
Shunsuke observes Yuichi as he seduces these women into loveless relationships.
And meanwhile Yuichi continues to meander his way through numerous primarily sexual relationships with powerful Japanese men.The beauty beyond this unique plot is the writing.
Plus, Yuichi and Shunsuke gradually become clearer symbols themselves- Yuichi, a symbol of physical beauty devoid of soul, Shunsuke, a symbol for inquiring soul devoid of beauty.I am anxious to reread this book to understand it more and marvel again at the craftsmanship!
Ayer en la noche terminé este libro de Mishima, es de las primeras novelas que escribió el autor y por ende una de las menos conocidas, no es una historia feliz, es amargo, es cruel y está lleno de personajes llenos de defectos que terminan desbordándolos, y solamente la belleza física sale impune, gran parte de la narrativa se dedica a explorar detalladamente el universo psicológico de cada uno de los personajes.
Casi queda la impresión de que la homosexualidad en Japón no era moralmente censurable (como era concebida en ese momento en gran parte de Occidente) sino más bien socialmente vergonzosa, pero libre de patologización o acusación religiosa.
لقد توقعت نهاية مأساوية للرواية ..ربما كان انتحار شانسوكي هو العمل الوحيد الصادق الذي قام به في حيات
