https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6533215-the-fateful-adventures-of-the-good-soldier-svejk-during-the-world-war-b
Druhý díl jednoznačně hodnotím jako slabší. Jednak se místy děj prakticky zastaví a jedná se pouze o změť napůl nesmyslných historek a filozofování. Zadruhé mi přijde postava Švejka jako takového svých chováním jaksi zvláštně nekonzistentní napříč oběma knihami. Aniž by Švejk prošel nějakým zjevným vývojem, zdál se mi být výrazně jiný na konci druhé knihy než jak začal v první. Vzhledem k tomu, že jsem se chvílemi do čtení musel trochu nutit, nevidím mnoho důvodů pokračovat ve čtení dalších dílů.
العمل متقن بشكل لا يناقشالسخرية هنا او الفكاهة عبارة عن كل شخص حين يتحاور يستطرد في مواضيع طويلة عجيبة باحكام جدا مضحكة لكن لا تعلو على الجزء الاولالتفاصيل دقيقة من المؤلف ، تسلسل احداث محكم. فعلا نتشوق للجزء الثالث
I’m writing this review after finishing Book Two of “The Fateful Adventures of the Good Soldier Svejk in the World War”.In this review, I’m going to include my thoughts on the differing Cecil Parrot and Zenny Sadlon translations, as I feel which translation you read will give you a different experience with the titular character, and the story in general.
I can’t state this enough, the Sadlon edition is a much different book that unmasks a significantly more intricate picture of World War One era Czechia.
That’s why Czechs think it can’t be translated.Zenny would put it into “English” and my job was to tell him it wasn’t English.
The basic error of the translator is that he preserves the state in which his own language happens to be instead of allowing his language to be powerfully affected by the foreign tongue.
The problem with Parrott’s translation is that it is a little too formal compared to the Czech original (incidentally, I’m fluent in Czech, so I know what the prose should feel like).
Blending the two, I suppose, might be the answer.'Here, we see, is a dilemma: Hasek’s prose flows, but Czech and English are very different languages.
Despre acest roman am realizat un eseu, dar cu accent pe personajul principal, Svejk, cel care și dă o culoare aparte întregii lumi ilustrate.
Este un roman plin de concepte legate de vremea de atunci, de război, mai ales de inulitatea acestuia, de lipsa identității, de multilingvism, de relocarea forțată, cenzură, imputarea cauzelor într-un mod fals fiecăruia, sciziunea mentală din urma Marelui Război.
Ce face, însă, acest roman plictisitor, la un moment dat, este marea pălăvrăgeală.
Lucru de care autorul se ocupă cu mare abilitate și una dintre temele centrale.
De la atâta pălăvrăgeală, pe șleau spus, obosești, te plictisești, vrei o pauză.
Tohle bylo mnohem horší než první knížka. Asi na tom něco nechápu, asi to neumím pořádně ocenit, ale tohle je pro mě prostě jen směsice skoro nesouvislých historek bez smysluplnějšího děje. Ne, nebavilo mě to. A upřímně, sotva jsem to dočetla...
حين اندلعت الحرب من أجل هيلين (حيث الأوديسة) أو من أجل الوطن (كما تولستوي) كان للحرب معنى معقول تماما. أما شفييك ورفاقه فيتوجه ن إلى الجبهة دون أن يعرفوا الدافع إلى هذا التوجه، وما يصدم أكثر هو أنهم يتوجهون إليها دون أن يُولوا اهتماما لذلك.
‫حين اندلعت الحرب من أجل هيلين (حيث الأوديسة) أو من أجل الوطن (كما تولستوي) كان للحرب معنى معقول تماما. أما شفييك ورفاقه فيتوجه ن إلى الجبهة دون أن يعرفوا الدافع إلى هذا التوجه، وما يصدم أكثر هو أنهم يتوجهون إليها دون أن يُولوا اهتماما لذلك.‬
Slabší než 1. díl, dočetl jsem jen ze setrvačnosti...
Somewhat slow to read, I think that this is one of those books that must be read when you are in your teens. Probably, it would have felt funnier and lighter then when I read it in my mid-thirties.
This satire was highly entertaining having a congenial main character and making full use of one-side accompanying characters, simplified to the greatest extent to personify a negative trait.
In satire or comic novels, these simplified, one trait characters are a positive aspect.
(view spoiler)[The case of the famous bar tender, arrested and condemned prior to the war due to the fact that in his bar, the flies have stained the emperor painting.
(hide spoiler)] This is an actual case, as the author confesses in the post-face to the first book.
As my series has three separate books, I've just now finished the second book. Like the first book, this too is a wonderful read, although I have to admit that personally I thought this second part slightly less than the first book of the series.Do get hold of an illustrated copy if you can, because the illustrations have a charm of their own and definitely add to the story.
العمل لايزال رائع يستحق الخمس نجوم ، لكن لا كما الجزء الاول، الاول افضل منه. الثاني مزاحه مطاط جدا لا يصيب كل مرةيعتمد المؤلف كثيرا على طرافة ان تجيب اي شخصية السؤال بجواب مطاط وفيه قصص جانبية غريبة وطويلة. فعلا مضحك من غير اسفاف لكن الاول افضللا انكر ان نهايات الثاني اضحكتني جدانتكلم عن المهم، القصة ذاتهاحبكة ، اسلوب، حوارات، قصة. كل ذلك لذيذ ورائع.سأنتظرك يا شفيك بالجزء الثالث
Just as with book one, I give it only 3 stars, because the whole book sooner or later becomes repetitive, not to say boring. But it's a good read, with a pinch of laugh. Remind me of much better Paragraph 22, because of it's antiwar character.
O dovada stralucita ca umorul e o arma impotriva tiraniei. Cartea pe care Hesek n-a apucat s-o termine, insa e mai puternica in mesaj decat multe serii fluviu.
Must read. An excellent mirror for the rotting monarchy with a fantastic main character
This should be current reading for a management course!
