https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/793647.The_Encyclopedia_of_Witchcraft_Demonology
An excellent reference source on witchcraft, and the delusions/persecutions of Western Europe, largely focused on the 15-18th centuries.
I suppose some people could quibble that the author takes a very specific definition of witchcraft, one that excludes what people would recognize today as Wicca or what Alistair Crowley was about.
Likewise, the book is quite clear in establishing that witchcraft is total bunk, so readers thinking they'll get some sort of "primer" will be very disappointed.
All told, the book is an excellent reference on the paranoia and panic that surrounded witchcraft, the extent to which people were systematically tortured and abused, and those brave few who tried to fight the nonsense with logic and reason.
Just a neat book I picked up back in the 80s after studying Chaucer with Professor Robbins. Shouldn't everyone have a few bits of esoteric reference materials in their library?
I remember wanting to read this book for years.
When I happened across this in an old book shop, I knew it was fate.
The first thing that grabbed me was the cover.
I know we are not to judge a book by its cover, but what can I sat it was Gothic and pulled me in.
I love how it carries elements of folklore, social beliefs, and fears of the day.
Still, I found cases that I scarcely knew existed.
Anyone who loves startling cases of real life magic, demons, and macabre history this book is for you!
A treasure trove of useful information on the witchcraft persecutions that gripped Europe, England and Colonial America especially useful as a launching pad for further reading. The bibliographies are nearly worth the price of admission; with that said I did notice some errors namely in dates and locations e.g. 1682 was listed as the year for the Essex County witchcraft trials, The Mercy Brown vampire scare was located in Rhode Island not Massachusetts, Robbins's analysis of the lithobolia outbreak on Great Island, NH in 1682 is questionable.
A good book that is very repetitive if you read it from A to Z, but worthwhile.In the end, I came away from this book with a sense of how profoundly fucked the human race really is. The editors of this book give absolutely no space to the existence of witchcraft--as it should be. So don't read this book if you're some "New Age Magician" thinking it'll tell you how to read the future or summon a demon.
“The words witch and witchcraft, in everyday usage for over a thousand years, have undergone several changes of meaning; and today witchcraft, having reverted to its original connotation of magic and sorcery, does not convey the precise and limited definition it once had during the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries."
This book is an encyclopedia of witchcraft and magic throughout the world. It is organized by region. It is a comphrensive read, but it is somewhat slanted and biased. It is told from a Christian perspective and seems to have a slant that magic and witchcraft is "bad" or "evil" in most forms.
5 stars.
very very informative and easily read.
Well written.
This book wasn't nearly as interesting as I thought it was going to be. The Vampire Encyclopedia was much better. I found myself easier bored and skimming through much of the book.
Mine's the 2nd edition, September 1960.
I read this when I just have free time. It's pretty massive, but very interesting.
Долу-горе полезно за бъдещата ми вещерска кариера. :D
A very useful encyclopedia on witchcraft and demonology. It's not the be all end all, but it is a good one to have on the reference shelf.
