https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/66797.Smith_of_Wootton_Major_Farmer_Giles_of_Ham
This is my second time wrestle-I-mean-reading!
I will openly admit, I slept-read The Hobbit.
So, as I helped my Mum put books away, this fell from a stack and hit me.In the face.I took it as a sign to get back on the horse and charge headlong back into Tolkien's imaginative writing.
After a few more pages, it took me by the hand and we began to run.
These two short stories were very charming to read, I'm a bit surprised no nerds and geeks talk about them; or seem to have read them!While reading Smith of Wootton- every time Tolkien would mention the Star, my mind flashed to something along the lines of Paul Stanley.Farmer Giles- it was just a snortfest for me.
"Smith" is in fact probably my favorite of Tolkien's short works.
Out of all of Tolkien's work, "Smith" seems to me to hold by far the greatest debt to George MacDonald's work.
I know that Tolkien, later in life, found much of MacDonald's work distasteful, but I feel the debt here is a positive one.
A very different work than Lord of the Rings or his other Middle Earth material, but it is a pleasant change and cannot help but feel more personal, Tolkien's own vision of his life, as Leaf by Niggle was.
"It was five miles, if it was a step and stiff going; and Giles trudged along puffing and blowing but never taking his eye off the worm.
At last on the West Side of the Mountain they came to the mouth of the cave.
It was large and black and forbidding and it's Brazen doors swung on great pillars of iron.
Plainly it had been that a place of strength and pride and days long-forgotten.
For dragons do not build such Works nor delve such mines but dwell rather when they may in the tombs and treasuries of Mighty Men and Giants of old."
I was never quite sure where "Smith of Wootton Major" was going, so I'll stick to "Farmer Giles of Ham." I've seen the story of the brave knight vs.
Maybe they could make a movie of this one.
Just don't let Peter Jackson anywhere near it; it'll be nine hours long.My father is a certified Tolkien lunatic who read me "Lord of the Rings" in its entirety when I was six, while all my friends were getting Dr. Seuss.
I'd rather he'd have read me this one, which has the advantage of not being eight hundred pages featuring over six hundred characters.
Two lesser-known but lovable works from the master, J.R.R. Tolkien.
Farmer Giles of Ham is a hilarous romp through ancient Britain, in which a humble peasant must master a giant, a dragon and then a foolish king.
This would be a wonderful film (note to Peter Jackson: one film only, please).
Smith of Wootton Major is a deeper story, with Tolkien's darker views of fantasy in a gentle telling: "the elves have left us, and we have not mourned their passing," a critic tells us (no spoiler) and this is what we see.
Highest recommendation.(Note: these are not really Middle Earth stories, but still fine examples of Prof.
An anthology of Tolkien's short stories that sheds some light into Tolkien's thoughts regarding Faerie and the value of Fantasy. As usual, Tolkien's prose shines through his capacity of creating natural landscapes of intense wonder and delight. Worth it if you're into his work.
I enjoyed these stories. I wish Tolkien were alive to write us all more tales of heroes and elves!
Two short stories/novellas by the master of fantasy fiction.
A little bit of a parody of fantasy and myth with an unlikely (and sometimes hilarious) hero."Smith of Wootton Major" is my favorite of the two and indeed probably my favorite short story of any kind.
I think that's as a good a one-line summary as any, but it is also about gifts given and received, and vistas found through long journeys.
"Smith" is not an allegory, but its story is maybe analogous to how faith and/or knowledge and/or imagination raise up the spirit and not only enrich the receiver but those around them.Highly recommended.
I'm sure other Tolkien-ites would review this book differently.Smith of Wootton Major: It wasn't that great.
Tolkien uses the short story format to explain what happens to men when they embrace, or shun, Faerie.
I was bored throughout.Farmer Giles of Ham: Better than the former.
The quirky characters make this short more enjoyable.My understanding is that these two stories were published posthumously.
I can't help but wonder if Tolkien would have published them they way they are, or if he would've tweaked them a bit.
Would he have made "The Smith of Wootton Major" more engrossing?
Would he have changed the story of "Farmer Giles of Ham"?
I liked it.
It was no Return of the King, mind you, but it was a charming, quaint duo with surprising depth to the first one.
I preferred Farmer Giles of Ham, but Smith of Wootton Major definitely has merit as well.
SoWM delved a little deeper into slightly more "signficant" themes, and I could see it making a great story to be passed on through word-of-mouth:) And then, of course, FGoH was just fun.
It was a bit like The Hobbit, but...*whispers* I actually might have liked it better.
Anyway, the book was entertaining and cheerful, a perfect quickie read.
In these two tales, we see Tolkien in two story-telling modes. Farmer Giles of Ham is playful, while Smith of Wooten Major does exactly what fantasy does best: it examines a larger question and wakes a sense of wonder. If you have only seen the movies, or if you've never read Tolkien or seen the movies, I'd recommend Smith of Wooten Major as a wonderful place to sample his story telling. I've read this aloud to children and they loved it.
While not as heavy a read as The Lord of the Rings it was still a pair of good short stories that show his literary talents even outside of Middle-Earth.
If you love J.R.R. Tolkien, you need to read this book. It's short and amazing. That's all there is to it really. Stop reading this review, go out buy the book, and read it. NOW!
Smith of Wootton Major is unquestionably my favorite work by J.R.R. Tolkien.No, the last name has nothing to do with it.
A vet good book.
This is a collection of two stories written by the author of Lord of the Rings and The Hobbit.Of the two, I liked Smith of Wootton Major better.
It was soft and sweet and it had a lovely ending.Farmer Giles of Ham is more in the vein of Merlin and Arthur and I've never gotten into those stories.
I actually liked the last bit about the place names better than the story.All in all, I'm glad I read these and I really loved Smith of Wootton Major.
I might read them both again just to give Farmer Giles a better chance.
What wonderful short stories! This is the first Tolkien I've read that is set outside of the Middle-Earth universe, and I loved every minute of it! I listened to both of these stories on audio as read by Derek Jacobi and I highly recommend them. He is a phenomenal narrator and really brings these tales to life! I especially liked Farmer Giles of Ham because of the dragon. Chrysophylax is really a great character. Both of these stories are certainly appropriate for children, and would be a great place to start them on fantasy.
Smith of Wootton Major & Farmer Giles of Ham is on my favorites list because it contains two stories that are humorous and adventurous. I can imagine students reading these short stories and being enthralled with the two different adventures. Considered fiction, it has a fantasy element to both. Designed for upper grade levels, it can be enjoyed as a captivating read aloud or enjoyed as a individual reader. In the reading classroom, teachers can use this book to teach imaginary writing skills. Students could also talk about the imagery in the stories.
Two entertaining fantasy stories that both honor and subvert the fairy-tale logic of folk tales. "Smith of Wootton Major" is a wonderful exploration of the themes of legacy and talent, wanderlust and responsibility. "Farmer Giles of Ham" reflects on how wits, luck, and stubbornness can be the defining features of a hero just a much (if not more) than honor, courage, and etiquette. A quick read that I've returned to many times since receiving it as a gift from my sister many years ago, with stories that show new depths with each re-reading.
Light and charming! None of the depressing nature of the Silmarillion here. These two stories are a breeze, and suitable for children as well as fairy-tale fans like many of us grown-ups. "Smith of Wootton Major" is an actual fairy tale, with the land of Faery being similar to the lands of the Elves in Lord of the Rings; and "Farmer Giles of Ham" was reminiscent of of The Hobbit with its clever dealings with a dragon, although it's lighter in tone even than that one. Glad I finally read these two!
Lovely. Farmer Giles of Ham was decent and may deserve another reading. Smith of Wooten Major has positively enchanted me. I think I've gone through it 5 times now and am ready for a 6th. It's story is simple and magical and has everything a story should - cake, silver stars, cloaked figures, faery, traveling through distant lands, jokes, underestimated heroes, a crotchety village curmudgeon, and endearing fathers and sons. A gem in Tolkien's crown.
My first Tolkien left an early impression on me. Named swords! Blunderbusses (early prototype Rock-It Launcher)! Talking dogs! Dragons! And uh, that first story... which escapes me....But, yeah. Dragons! I've been obsessed with them ever since Chrysophylax's story (and his cover portrait!).
Five stars for the Smith of Wootton Major. Maybe four stars or three and a half for the Farmer Giles of Ham. I loved the magic and mystic beauty of the first Tale. I would spend many more days reading of wandering through Faery. Farmer Giles did not capture my wonder and imagination in the same way.
It was odd reading works of Tolkien's that were not set in Middle Earth, but enjoyable all the same. Both tales were more deeply immersed in classic English folklore, but the overall tone reminded me of a grandfather or old uncle spinning you a yarn by the fireplace, just after tea. Quite delightful.
Enjoyable, especially Farmer Giles of Ham. It has all the charms that one can find in Tolkien's more well known works, but lacks in deeper and more meaningful themes. They are both children's tales with a gentle aesthetic, and the illustrations by Pauline Baynes were of especially great addition.
I loved both stories, but I found Smith of Wootton Major to be more charming, and more easily read.
Brilliant Tolkien folklore. Farmer Giles of Ham certainly appealed to me more with it's chivalric nature. Really enjoyed this, and would certainly recommend it.
i listened to derek jacobi reading this story ... i wonder if there is any tolkein writing that i wouldn't enjoy
SO GOOD!! Charming short stories with the humor and imagination only Tolkien can offer.
While I am more partial to the Smith, Giles makes an excellent heroic character as well. Both stories are such treats.
