https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/629429.The_World_of_Yesterday
Born to a wealthy Jewish family, well-educated, speaker of many languages, famous both in his native Austria and throughout the West from the many translations of his novels, stories, and other writings, Zweig believed passionately in the vital need for an international community of artists.
His orientation to the world around him was influenced by his commitment to the ideal of Europe as a cultural community, where artists from many countries would support and draw inspiration from each other, create a shared international culture, and guard diligently against intolerance and war.
Stefan Zweig and his second wife, Lotte Altmann (his secretary) -- married 1939, committed suicide together in Brazil in 1942The World of Yesterday is a devastating book, but it is also illuminating.
He was able to spend his young years devoted to reading and exploring as much of the rich intellectual life of the city as he desired, to spend his teenage years lusting after the celebrities of the Viennese stage and concert halls(there's a wonderful chapter where he describes the proto-fanboy culture of the time), and to indulge his Serious Debates of Ideas with his friends as often as he liked.
Some examples of people he had a personal acquaintances or interactions with are: Theodore Herzl, Romain Rolland, Rilke, Yeats, James Joyce, a Belgian artist called Emile Verhaeren who he works for for a time, Rodin, Paul Valery, Gorky, Sigmund Freud, Shaw and HG Wells and Richard Strauss.Zweig comes from an earlier era that worshiped the idea of individual genius.
But then, as the story draws to a close, (view spoiler)[war breaks out, one of the main characters is shot by the secret police, the love interest dies from disease, and we are brought back to the present.
(hide spoiler)]This transformed a merely charming movie into a poignant one, where the grand and romantic world which the audience has inhabited for the past hundred minutes is long gone.
This was likely the book that did it.Stefan Zweig was an author who lived in the very heart of fin-de-siecle Vienna at its height.
If we, driven and hunted in these times which are inimical to every art and every collection, were put to it to learn a new art, it would be that of parting from all that once had been our pride and our love.Zweig has given us a self-effacing and profound account of a period where he was lucky to explore the alleys of great literary avenues and himself became a virtuoso of dazzling words.
It’s a cautionary case presented by a beloved writer with a hope that his thoughts will reach us in some form when time again strikes doom.
Zweig never returned home.
In the security chapter I couldn't help but be reminded of the Margaret McMillan talk I attended this Spring and how she said this period before WW1 was a very comfortable and optimistic time in Europe, the continent was sleepwalking.The book manages to drive home the fact that we have come a long way in the last century; there have been so many drastic changes."I feel that the world in which I grew up and the world of today, not to mention the world in between them, are drawing further and further apart and becoming entirely different places."I love history and I've studied a lot about WW1 and WW2 history.
And his sentiment is kept to a minimum, in spite of the overall feeling of a nostalgia without anguish.Those scant personal aspects become then a necessary framework through which he displays his beloved foregone world.
His early success in the literary world and his cosmopolitan mindset meant that he met very many exceptional personalities.
But as the missing portraitist, he has left the Gallery and left the door open.These self-effacing memoirs contrast with some aspects of his fiction.
But in these memoirs, he certainly does not put his heart on display.But then, he couldn’t.
Zweig originally intended to call the book Three Lives, referring to the three time periods that had comprised his life: the Vienna that he grew up and matured in; the Great War, and the inter-war period, during which he dealt with the loss of the dreams of human progress that he had had as a young man before the War; and finally the advent of Hitler and the outbreak of the second World War.Zweig says of the European mood in the early years of the century " ...
And just as that musicality expressed itself in writers in the particular attention we paid to writing particularly well-turned prose, in others the sense of delicacy was expressed in social attitudes and daily life."There are many enlightening moments stemming from his account of numerous artists, like his giving us a peek at James Joyce as a young artist in the middle of his masterpiece, or his allowing me as a reader to feel oneness with the poet Rilke in the way he describes him in his daily element, and even those times when one feels close enough to cherish Zweig's friendship and literary brotherhood with Romain Rolland.
Zweig would become one of the most read and translated authors of his age, but like much else in the wake of Hitler’s slaughter of Europe, that, too, came to a (temporary) end.Throughout the book Zweig demonstrates a touching reverence for other masters of literature, e.g. Goethe and Rilke, but also for composers, e.g. Beethoven, and, towards the end, Freud, whom he visited in both Vienna and London and considered a good friend.
هذه المذكرات هي خلاصة تجربة الأديب ستيفان زفايج والذي كان معنيًا بتدوين يومياته - مذكراته وكان يشجع أصدقائه على فعل المثل ليس بغية النشر بقدر الفائدة الشخصية منها عند القراءة أو ليقرأ أبنائهم ماجاء فيها على الأقل؛ إيمانًا منه بأن "كل حياة تتضمن تجارب نفسية واجتماعية جديرة بالتدوين" وعلى المستوى الشخصي أظن أن مذكرات زفايج لم يكن يخطط لنشرها في حياته حتي لو فكر في نشر جزء منها يمثل مرحلته العمرية في أوروبا قبل خروجه للبرازيل وذلك لعزوف الرجل عن الشهرة.
...after all, shadows themselves are born of light....toda sombra es, al fin y al cabo, hija de la luz.- Stefan Zweig, The World of Yesterday/El Mundo de Ayer   There are people that breathe nostalgia every day. They enjoy it, they suffer it. They stare at some object and a million memories come to mind. People, friends, lovers, happiness, regrets. They are usually looking back wishing for the past to become present. For that little part of the world they knew and that it felt much safer than t
I have read, I have lived through his words and I have learned.I have been acquainted with other works by Zweig and his magnificent writing is obviously present in this book that is considered a real masterpiece.
Avoiding a detailed recount of his own life, this book portrays the sense of safety of those lost days.
Reading this book was a strange experience.
For I am writing these nonsensical lines when, in another part of the world, people have fifteen seconds to save their lives from the atrocity of others.
For a memoir covering his days of early education to 1939, a few years before his suicide in Brazil, he so rarely talks about himself or his family -- there's a mention of trying to apply for a license to marry his second wife in England right as England declares war on Germany, but no mention of a first wife.
(It rarely comes up, but Zweig is a totally assimilated Viennese Jew.) He didn't collaborate with the Nazis so much as try to preserve the primacy of art when faced with deathheads.

Few history books paint so rich and full a picture of European culture during these transformative years—above all, in Paris, Berlin, and Zweig’s original home of Vienna—from the peaceful span preceding the First World War, to the Indian Summer of the interwar years, to the terrible hardships that led to the second great conflagration.The last two autobiographies I read were of Benvenuto Cellini (whose beautiful salt-cellar is on display at the Vienna Art History Museum) and Jean-Jacques Rousseau, two very different men alike in their narcissism.
من أجمل كتب السيرة التي قرأتها، ينطلق من الخاص إلى العام، ومن العام إلى الكوني. تأملات مرهفة وحساسية نادرة في التناول والمعالجة. إضافة إلى جماله الفني.. قيمته الموضوعية لا يطالها الشك. اقرأوه
He had lost everything he owned and his books were banned in Germany, Austria and all other countries where Hitler had power.
Although they were available in the free world, Stefan deeply regretted that they could no longer be read in original German.
This book, "the world of yesterday", is an autobiography and commentary on the world Stefan lived through.
To quote George Santayana: "Those who cannot learn from history are doomed to repeat it." There were some truly insightful quotes by Stefan, but since I listened to the book and haven't highlighted or written them down, I can't share them with you.
This old (and anonymous) translation is stiff and quite unappealing, and while there are certainly many interesting stories, there is also a looseness in the prose and the book runs on a bit verbosely.
There are some very interesting insights in the Hitler chapter, but Zweig soon escaped and lived in relative peace, and so was not the best witness (as he admits) for the events he subsequently lived through.
He seems to have been a very sweet and well balanced man, which only makes his sucide seem all the more inexplicable.Anyone interested in this book should definitely spring for the new (Anthea Bell) translation.
This memoir is an exceptionally beautiful piece of art and literature!
He succeeds to capture the Zeitgeist of more than half a century (and what a time indeed: the final years of the 19th century, the Great War and the years leading up to the Second World War) and makes it come alive.
It was hard to put the book down before going to sleep at nights.
I regretted Having to leave the book untouched for days because of work yet as soon as I had time again I was immediately drawn back into it by Zweig's wonderful prose.
I finished his memoir but I am not done reading Zweig's work.
We failed to see the writing on the wall in letters of fire. Like King Belshazzar before us, we dined on the delicious dishes of the arts and never looked apprehensively ahead. At one point during the first half of the 20th century, two Austrians would take residence in the high and remote corners of the Alps, almost exactly opposite one another. Both were at one time living in the Austrian capital of Vienna, though their experiences have been remarkably different - one wanted to be an artist,
To our detriment, we live in a world shaped by the actions and ideas of the first Austrian, while the other has been quietly pushed away into obscurity and largely forgotten.The world of today continues to exist in the shadow of Adolf Hitler, and all that he came to embody: political fanaticism, blind nationalism and equally blind faith in personal superiority shared by everyone.
Zweig writes with genuine feeling not only about Vienna, but also about Paris, a city which he genuinely loved and despaired when it fell to the Nazis; he also travels to the young Soviet Russia, and to his credit remains skeptical about this great social and political experiment - unlike many other intellectual and writers.

Such Abounding Beauty; Such Utter Sadness and Despair ThereafterThe World of Yesterday is the inimitably enriching and terrifically enthralling literary memoir of Stefan Zweig, an Austrian writer who was the world's most popular in the 1930s until he was forced by increasing Nazi pressure to flee continental Europe in 1934 and emigrate to England, the United States and ultimately Brazil.
Zweig then drops the reader into a palpable simulation of the fear and utter disbelief one would feel to be a world-famous author who is forced to abandon his home and homeland and run for his life simply because he was born Jewish.Highly recommended.

هذه الصدمة جعلتني ألاحظ أن زفايج لم يكتب في هذا الكتاب عن نفسه حقا ً، أي أن زفايج الكاتب والأديب لم يكن موجودا ً في هذا الكتاب، من كان موجودا ً زفايج الإنسان، زفايج الذي عصفت به السياسة، والحروب، والكراهية، بحيث كتب عندما أراد أن يتحدث عن نفسه، عن السياسة، عن جهوده في الحرب العالمية الأولى ومراسلاته ومقالاته في نبذ الحرب، والأمل بعودة السلام بين الأوروبيين، لم يتحدث زفايج في هذا الكتاب عن الكتب، لم يتحدث عن أعماله كثيرا ً، لم يكن الكاتب فيه من يتحدث إلينا، بل كان الرجل، المفكر، والإنسان المطحون.عالم الأمسستيفان زفايجترجمة: عارف حديفةالناشر: دار المدىالطبعة الأولى 2007 م343 صفحة

The material about the period immediately after the First World War is sometimes the most interesting though the book itself tends to be sold on the basis of it being an evocative account of fin de siècle Habsburg Vienna.
I confess I didn’t feel moved by his account of that pre-WWI period and others have done it better.
The account of the rise of Nazis is more absorbing and understandably tense.Of far greater interest than my witterings, however, is the excoriating review of Zweig by Michael Hofmann, which appeared in the LRB a few years ago.
http://www.lrb.co.uk/v32/n02/michael-...
Zweig, unlike Thomas Mann, wrote in a spontaneous, fluid, conversational, druckreif style, and deserves an immediate unlabored impression.
The world Zweig grew up in had this seemingly solid imperial foundation, and was generous enough in spirit to support a vibrant explosion of new creative styles in the arts, much of which still seems modern to us today.
While he regained his lost world, not everyone in the German-speaking world recovered from the humiliations at the end of the Great War. There were signs of trouble, but Zweig could not believe that Europeans would repeat the tragedy of 1914.
While Zweig provides an often golden-hued picture of the Europe of his youth, the turn of the century Vienna of the final years of the Hapsburg Empire, he also tells us of his (sometimes impersonal) memories of life in Austria during and after The Great War, the years of terrible deprivation in the countries that lost, the rise of National Socialism in Germany, and the Second World War. Unspoken, in the background, is the knowledge that Zweig took his life in 1942 shortly after completing this memoir.
On this link is the definitive review, I feel, by Kris and the reason why I read this book in the first place:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...This is the most wonderful book imaginable.
I really cannot say anything further.How can I possibly expound being a mere mortal on what this individual went through in his life and then finally to commit suicide with his wife in a joint pact.
It's mind blowing.An absolutely remarkable book.
I actually confess to being humbled in reading it and I'm so glad I did.
A book that I shall often return to in order to remind myself how unimportant I am as a human may fly on this incredible planet of ours.
Este libro es como de lo mejor que me ha pasado en la vida.No sé qué más decir.
I tried very hard to appreciate this book but found the language so cumbersome.
