https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14027.Thousand_Cranes
Thus, tea bowls, water jars and flower vases glint with the ghost of Kikuji’s deceased father, an expert of such ritual and a man whose extramarital affairs marked the lives of two women with contrasting personalities that conjure up the eternal dichotomies in The Tao Te Ching.
Chikako is as manipulative as she is resentful, Mrs. Ota, as fragile as guilt-ridden, and Kikuji, used as a surrogate for his father, will find himself dragged away against his will by the currents of an obsessive love triangle that will end in tragedy.The Tea Ceremony acquires symbolic transcendence and acts like a connecting point between life and death, memories and presages, corruption and purity, nature and aesthetics.
زندگی پدرم قسمت خیلی کوچکی از عمر پیاله بودو تجربیاتی که او از گذشته و زندگی پدرش گرفته"عزبها آدم های خیلی جالبی هستند"-"خیلی"-"ولی این راه و رسم زندگی نیست"-"درسم را از پدرم سرمشق گرفته ام"-اما کیکوجی در آنچه به یقین رسیده شک می کندو این شک با چشیدن زنانگی واقعی شروع می شودبرای او که هر بار در آخر رابطه جنسی احساس ناخوشایندی داشته است:هرمان هسه در مورد این حس از زبان گرگ بیابان می گویدزندگی شهوی و امور جنسی بذائقه من هیچگاه خالی از طعم تلخ و فرعی گناهکاری و آلودگی که جز همان طعم شیرین و ترساننده میوه ممنوع چیزی نیست نبود و به گمان من بر هرکس که اهل معنویات است فرض بود که از آن میوه بپرهیزد و خود را در ایمنی نگاه دارد(view spoiler)[اکنون هرمینه و ماریا این باغ را از جنبه بی گناهیش بمن نشان داده بودند و من با امتنان میهمان این باغ گردیده بودم اما بزودی برای من موقعی فرا رسید که بیشتر برانم، در این باغ همه چیز گرم و مطبوع و زیبا بود، باید پیشتر رفت و تاج و افسر حیات را ربود، فراتر تاخت و کفاره گناهان بی پایان زندگی را پرداخت، چنین بود تقدیر من.
The memory of that birthmark on Chikako’s breast was concrete as a toad. The sins of the fathers is an old theme, found in the Bible, Euripides, Shakespeare, and countless other works. It's used here too in this slim book of Kawabata's but this is probably the only time it is acted out using bits of pottery, cloth and tea. True, the characters aren't exactly holding these items and making them talk. There's a sparse background on which they have plenty of room to act on the imagination. Kawabat
It's used here too in this slim book of Kawabata's but this is probably the only time it is acted out using bits of pottery, cloth and tea.
Also from his Nobel lecture, I may say in passing, that to see my novel Thousand Cranes as an evocation of the formal and spiritual beauty of the tea ceremony is a misreading.
It is a negative work, and expression of doubt about and warning against the vulgarity into which the tea ceremony has fallen.Thousand Cranes has no origami magic, but instead a kerchief with the thousand crane pattern which was once carried by a young woman named Yukiko.
رواية تدور أحداثها حول الشعور بالذنب والتخلص منه من خلال بطل الرواية الذي بعد وفاة والديه لم يكن يعرف أين تقوده حياته او ما الذي يريد ان يفعل بها.تجذبه صديقات وعشقات والده الذي كان يمارس فن تناول الشاي باحترافية، وهو فن منتشر هناك في اليابان حيث يخضع لعادات وتقاليد غريبه علينا نحن القرّاء العرب.احدى عشيقات والده تحاول تدبير زواج له، ولكن بسبب تردده وتوهان مشاعره بين المرشحة للزواج وبين ابنة عشيقة ابيه الاخرى.الرواية نحمل عمق فلسفي عميق لمجتمع له فلسفته عن الحياة والموت والتكفير عن الذنب .
To him Fumiko represented the good in the tea ceremony, an ode to the traditions of the past, evoking her mother, evoking the ancient practice that highlights the reticence, the humbleness, the peace, and grace of the Japanese people.
In the end Kikuji’s expression saying Fumiko has no reason to die is the voice of Kawabata muttering in regret that the noble traditions of the fading tea ceremony should not disappear.At the surface Thousand Cranes is a tragic novel of love and longing but at the same time it is a sentimental look and a disdainful scowl at different pasts of the tea ritual.
”Worrying oneself over the dead—was it in most cases a mistake, not unlike berating them? The dead did not press moral considerations upon the living.” Kikuji is floating like a red maple leaf on a still pond. His father and mother are dead, and the most logical thing is for him to marry now. The family house is large and musty from disuse. He needs to fill it with children and the care of a woman who will make the house into a cheery home again. Or at least that is what is being suggested to hi
His father and mother are dead, and the most logical thing is for him to marry now.
She carried a bundle wrapped in a kerchief, the thousand-crane pattern in white on a pink crape background.”All Kikuji has to do is indicate that he is interested, and all the details will quickly be worked out.
My suggestion is to read some of the book and then stop and make some hot tea.
Read some more and let your mind sift through the words for the quiet meanings that will be lost if you drive by too fast.
He does not really know what to do with his life, caught up in the wanderings of modernization at the work of Japanese society and nostalgia for ancient rites.Kikuji is forever marked by the image of horrific brown spots seen on the chest of Chikako Kurimoto, who was briefly one of the mistresses of his late father, who loved his rival Mrs. Ota more.Kikuji is attached to the ritual of the tea ceremony, and will regularly meet these two women who knew his father...
I took these cranes in motion to symbolize this novella, one in which ancient and modern Japanese culture were at a crossroads.Each of the four women in this novella were depicted sexually and whether or not Kikuji could gain from a relationship with any of them.
That a male author would only depict women in a sexual manner was alarming to me, given that this book is modern and women's role in society has shifted to one in which they have more roles than that of mother and housewife.From this novella I can see where Kawabata's writing would garner him Nobel consideration.
Yukiko Inamura , a girl with the thousand cranes patterned kerchief was chosen for Kikuji’s miai(matchmaking).Kawabata interlaces the complex emotions in simple characterizations; analogous to the meticulous procedures that of a tea ceremony.
The ‘bird of happiness’ after all did not nest in Kikuji’s life .In his Nobel Prize speech Kawabata commented:-"A tea ceremony is a coming together in feeling, a meeting of good comrades in a good season.
I may say in passing, that to see my novel Thousand Cranes as an evocation of the formal and spiritual beauty of the tea ceremony is a misreading.
Remove the tradition and ceremony, and the process of personal growth and socialization stalls.Born under a Bad Sign Kawabata uses the Tea Ceremony as a symbol of the tradition and legacy of a family, only the portrait he paints is of a family that has lost its way, partly due to the premature death of both of the protagonists’ parents.The Tea Ceremony for Kikuji’s family is conducted by Chikako, a woman who was once his father’s mistress, and ended up having a role in his household.In the only aspect of the novel I didn’t like, Chikako has a birth mark across her chest.
It is a novel about ideas and people rather than a linear plot; actually it could also be said that it is a novel about Kikuji’s love life!Loneliness and disorientation are themes, but it is impossible to avoid contempt Kikuji has for older women in particular; neither Mrs Ota nor Chikako ae portrayed positively.
Kikuji was obsessed with the idea that a child who sucked at that breast, with its birthmark and its hair, must be a monster.”There is a link here that I almost missed; the pottery of the tea ceremony must be flawless and beautiful; lesser pieces and those that are flawed degrade the ceremony.
What happens when traditions start to fall apart?
when a new generation has let the old ways of their parents drop.
What was the value in those ways?
How can the value be retained when the tradition has been smashed?
When we try, like Nietzsche, to philosophize with a hammer, we may be left with only shards and those shards can leave painful wounds.
It becomes impossible and is also left in shards.
Such is the message of this gently told, poignant novel.
There is a musty beauty about it that has left me wanting more.
Luckily, I bought four of Kawabata's novels.
Note on the pronunciation of Japanese names--Thousand Cranes
Thoughts before reading: I have a burning question to ask after reading two Yasunari Kawabata's novels and on my way to read the third: Is that just this Kawabata guy, or is it common for men in general to keep thinking about this perfect but unreal phantom of a beautiful woman (whom they can't be with for one reason or another), even when they already had a solid but flawed wife or girlfriend (they are flawed because all humans are flawed) by their sides?Any menfolk bothers to answer me? Thoug
3.5 stars.I think it's fitting to share with you one of the messages I think Mr. Kawabata might want to express through this story: love can be hellish.Also I want to add photos from a band called Moran and a music video of theirs: 薔薇色の地獄 (translation: Rosy Colored Hell)Link to music video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rVt_H...After reading Snow Country and The Old Capital, I notice a major change in Kawabata's themes: the sense of guilt and karma dominate Thousand Cranes like it has never been in the previous two books.The plots are rather straight forward and easily understandable: the main story is centered around a young man (Kikuji) and his relationships with a few different women: Mrs. Ota, a long term mistress of the man's late father (who was a master of tea ceremony), Miss Ota, her daughter.
به نظر من آدم نمی تونه با کشتن خودش کارهای اشتباه و نادرستی رو که توی زندگی اش مرتکب شده، جبران و رفع و رجوع کنه. این طور مردن فقط سوء تفاهم ها رو بیش تر می کنه. هیچ کس نمی تونه همچین آدمی رو ببخشه.از متن کتاب
What a curious and unusual book!It is a very short read and there is a real senseof calm and peace reading it.It is really beautifully and simply written.But even though it is very calming and nice to read itis jam packed with symbolism and some really complex emotivestuff.I can't even begin to understand it all but I would gladlyread it again and again and each time I think I would understandthe symbolism and complexity of these characters relationships more.It really is very captivating and unusual.
want?) an urgent yet unassuming emotional life in books.
I was really waiting for my Kawabata books to arrive in the mail.
Thousand Cranes is about Kikuji representing his dead father to lover Mrs. Oto.
There's another person left behind in queen mixer and mistress of tea, Chikako.
The meanness surrounding her has a stronger flavor like um a stronger cup of tea.
At least Chikako came the closest to admitting that Mrs. Oto and her lover acted out their affair as if no one else had anything to do with it.
I'm probably going to end up spilling my brains out about my feelings on suicide in the Kawabata books.
His book are like essays wrapped up in torrid telenovelas.Kawabata is old-school Japan at its best.
His books invariably celebrate tradition.
So in Thousand Cranes it was nice to see him using the Japanese Tea Ceremony as a vehicle for grappling with the meaning of ritual and tradition: why we pass them down the generations, how we attach meaning to ritual objects, how we seek traces of former owners in these guiltless objects, and how these objects outlive us:
When you see the bowl, you forget the defects of the old owner.
شخصیت اصلی کتاب پسر بیست و چند ساله ایه به نام کیکوجی، و حالا چهار سال بعد از مرگ پدرش، هنوز تحت تاثیر خیانت های پدرش به مادرش قرار داره و نتونسته عشق رو تجربه کنه.اما طی یک مراسم چای به دعوت یکی از معشوقه های سابق پدرش یعنی کوریموتو چیچاکو، کیکوجی متوجه میشه که یکی دیگه از معشوقه های سابق پدرش یعنی خانم اوتا و دخترش هم توی این مراسم حضور دارند، و کیکوجی عشق عجیبی رو به خانم اوتا در خودش احساس میکنه...
Kikuji reached to touch the voluptuous and warmly cool surface.(view spoiler)[Mr Mitani had a brief fling with Chikako, the wicked witch of the story, even with his wife knowing about it.
Chikako and Mrs Ota both see Mr Mitani in Kikuji, and treat them almost as though they were one and the same person.
In the three or four hundred years before it became the property of Mrs Ota, it had passed through the hands of people with what strange careers?In a final symbolic gesture, Kikuji gets Fumiko to shatter the Shino vase (probably valuable) which seemed to be breaking some kind of curse.
I read this about 20 years ago --- (saw a GR's friend about to read it now) --- I wouldn't mind reading it again myself 'today'. (hm??? recycle book store --keeping eyes open)
There is a heavy dose of symbolism in his relationship with these characters; the tea bowl’s which form part of the tea ceremony which plays such an integral part of the novel represent the relationships not only between Kikuji and Fumiko but between their parents, they are imbued with the entanglement of their past and current relationships, with the smear of Mrs Ota’s lipstick, repugnant and powerful red, acting as a smear on the outer tranquillity of the ceremony and leading to Fumiko’s destruction of the bowl which, like Mrs Ota herself, is irretrievably broken, shattered into a thousand pieces.
Thousand Cranes by Yasunari KawabataMy rating: 4 of 5 stars Yasunari Kawabata was the first Japanese author to win the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1968 "for his narrative mastery, which with great sensibility expresses the essence of the Japanese mind." In awarding the prize, the Nobel Committee cited three of his novels, Snow Country, The Old Capital and this novel, Thousand Cranes. In 1972 he joined the list of celebrated Japanese authors (including Akutagawa, Dazai and Mishima) to have c
Yasunari Kawabata was the first Japanese author to win the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1968 "for his narrative mastery, which with great sensibility expresses the essence of the Japanese mind." In awarding the prize, the Nobel Committee cited three of his novels, Snow Country, The Old Capital and this novel, Thousand Cranes.
The novel is divided into five episodes: "Thousand Cranes", "A Grove in the Evening Sun", "Figured Shino", "Her Mother's Lipstick" and "Double Star" and follows several relationships via the interactions of the traditional tea ceremony.Thoughts: The weight of tradition and the powerful influence of family life lie at the heart of this tale of ill-fated love.
The novel is very much about the quiet tempests raging underneath the seemingly peaceful and polite surface of a propriety-obsessed society.
The intricacies of the characters' relationships are presented with the grace and extreme subtlety of traditional tea ceremony, which the novel takes as its theme.
This, however, only underscores the claustrophobic sense of gloom that lies in the novel's quiet beauty.Particularly intriguing was Chikako Kurimoto (for all intents and purposes, the book's antagonist), whose brazenness is unmatched by any character in any other modernist Japanese text that I've read.
He employs the game of Go and tea ceremonies.
These are tacit traditional affairs.
This is a novel where tradition attempts to check waves of resentment, and it does to varying results.
The events begin in the wake of a man death.
His son finds himself at a tea ceremony with his father's two mistresses.
Thus begins a series of triangles and slights.
The young man looks at a tea bowl and recognizes that in its 400 years of existence it has been owned by people with very strange professions.
There is little revelation here, only a series of colors and sparse emotional palette well suited for such.
Kikuyi, Hikako, Matmazel Inamura, Bayan Oota ve Fumiko...
I understand that Thousand Cranes symbolises the decay of Japan in the post war world, but even with that understanding, I still didn't get much of what was going on.Kikuji is the protagonist and his sexual viewpoint towards all women he encounters is basically what the book is about.
He inherits his father's two mistresses, Chikako and Mrs Ota. Chikako has an 'ugly' birthmark on her breast, which makes her unfeminine and malevolent.
Mrs. Ota cries all the time and feels guilty.
And if I have to read prose just for the sake of the writing, then I prefer to have the female characters be more than just sexual objects.
"She died because of herself.
If you say it was you who made her die, then it was I even more.
If I have to blame anyone, it should be myself.
But it only makes her death seem dirty, when we start feeling responsible and having regrets.
Regrets and second thoughts only make the burden heavier for the one who has died." (50)This is the third novel that I read by Kawabata, and the best so far.
I always appreciated Kawabata's language and understated style, but this time I also cared for the story.
I feel like this book isn't for everyone -- it's a bit like green tea, some people find it too bitter, some people find it too strong.But Kawabata is something of a master, like I said.
Sullenness and someone's delicate, thousand crane handkerchief, disappointment and dying fireflies, all those things add up to make a beautiful narrative.The book itself is quite short, only 100 pages, and it does skip forward in each part and often only implies major events in the plot.
I was surprised by the subtlety in this book, despite how harsh it is, surprised at Kawabata's craft.
(Snow Country is my favorite of the two ...)
