https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93111.Paris_Peasant
It’s reminiscent of dying gooseberry, of pecked-over cherry, it resembles those ribbons on Palmes Academiques that turn to acid in daylight…wait, I’ve got it, the dress is litmus paper tinted slightly pink by urine.Now you might be thinking a hundred pages about some condemned shopping centre in old Paris would get to be a bit much.
I know my world would be a little poorer without it.
Not that this is really a narrative in its basic sense: Aragon's odd travelogues of Paris place (an arcade (in the pre-mall, covered pedestrian commercial passage sense), a park) are just jumping-off points, brief perches from which to fire off piercing observation and musing.And his thoughts are very worth it.
Except he had been right: I did and do share his obsessions and thoughts, even all this space and time across most of a century.And as far as novels that are part memoir and part philosophic leaping-off point, this is far far better than Nadja.
Louis Aragon was one of the main guys behind Surrealism, till he came up against his one time friend Andre Breton, who threw him out of the group. Aragon became a hardcore Communist for the rest of his life. Meanwhile during his Surrealist years he wrote "Paris Peasant" which is a beautiful book about mad love among the 'ruins' of Paris. Not as good as Breton's Nadja, but nevertheless a must for those who collect and read French Surrealist literature.
3,7
Some beautiful passages of prose poetry interspersed with quasi-philosophical and theological opinion. Mixed bag.
Le Paysan de Paris fait un clin d'Oeil au Paysan Perverti de Restife de la Brétonne.
Le roman de Restife de la Brétonne decrit une déchéance.
Le roman d'Aragon décrit un trajectoire qui tourne en ronds.
Le surréalisme est un mouvement qui n'a pas produit une seule oeuvre d'intéret dans la domaine de la littérature.
Les résultats ont été carrément meilleurs dans les domaines de la peinture, de la sculpture et le cinéma.D'autre part, le surréalisme discute bien ce qui explique sans doute pourquoi on continue a le guarder au programme au premier cycle.
I usually find Surrealist writers, at least in translation, to be dreadfully boring & wooden & forced. The best "Surrealist" writing is by people who were either never Surrealists or were only peripherally associated w/ Surrrealism - like Raymond Roussel & Raymond Queneau. Of course, you have to be named Raymond to be a good Surrealist writer - except for Antonin Artaud.. However, I liked this Louis Aragon bk. On the other hand, contrary to what the back-cover blurb says, I wdn't call this bk Surrealist either, so..
Start at the last chapter, then move to the first. Camouflaged as an inch-by-inch inventory of certain favorite areas of Paris, Aragon has created a manifesto on the purpose of literature: As a means of personal and phenomenological exploration.
travelling with your mind as well as your feet. always carry your dead as they are the curtain of love to the world around you. experience.
I expected this to be much more difficult than it was. Often funny and light with stabs of darkness and brutality, Louis Aragon manages to be charming and intelligent even during the few eye-rolling moments. Almost cuttingly intelligent on the human "feeling for nature" and his inclination to religion via desire/need for order.
As a placemarker for a review of this book, I invite you to enjoy this piece of modern minimalism:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MLwhDI...and an even better cut off the same record:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=As5_Q...
Very promising!
A wonderful surrealist romp through Paris with much time spent in the unusual Parc des Buttes Chaumont near Pere-Lachaise in the 19th Arrondissement.
S-U-B-L-I-M-E(and sooo Paris)
what did i think? it's fucking Paris Peasant, for chrissakes. does it matter?
Ahora, pese a sus innegables e irreverentes hallazgos, no logra golpearme de lleno en la cara, como hicieran su “Aniceto o el panorama” o su “Tratado de estilo”, o la muy superior “Nadja” de Breton, con su muy hermosa y muy inútil Puerta de Saint-Denis, esa puerta que iba a depararme uno de esos encuentros fortuitos de los que tanto hablan sus obras.“El campesino de París” se zambulle en el deambular poético, en la espontánea asociación de ideas, en ese buscar sin saber qué se anda buscando que retomaría Horacio en “Rayuela”, pero uno no puede dejar de observar los detalles –párrafos, páginas enteras– en los que el espíritu crítico del flâneur Aragon señala y condena los procesos de desmoronamiento de la ciudad que conocía, “modificando así todos los pensamientos de un barrio y posiblemente de un mundo”, y que tienen como consecuencia una suerte de proto-gentrificación, la creación de nuevas galerías, la presión especulativa, la sanguinaria subida alquileres y el cierre de establecimientos tan del gusto de los surrealistas.
Well, that's about 8 hours of my life I'll never get back.
Je me suis lassé de ce livre, qui avait pourtant bien commencé . De longues descriptions concernant des sujets qui petit à petit ont fini par me lasser. Dommage !
Louis Aragon's Paris Peasant (Le Paysan de Paris, 1926) is, first and foremost, its author's attempt "to use the accepted novel-form as the basis for the production of a new kind of novel that would break all traditional rules governing the writing of fiction, one that would be neither a narrative (story) nor a character study (a portrait), a novel that the critics would be obliged to approach empty-handed .
But in the case of the senses, man, after absorbing the teachings of various traditional schools, has begun to have doubts about himself; one can imagine by what play of mirrors this has been at the expense of the opposite thought process, reasoning.
However his creation, because of its eschewing of plot and character, is - perhaps unsurprisingly - quite a difficult read.
Such, I imagine, was the impact of surrealism.
Yet surrealism is now absolutely prevalent in society on a mainstream level, from children's cartoons through to film and advertising, and this work appears almost academic (in both senses of the word) when read amidst this backdrop.This in itself wouldn't matter if the 'story' was engaging, but on its own terms whilst I found it an easy read in terms of the actual prose I couldn't get sufficiently interested in the book to enjoy it.
charming, parang halo-halo on an entire summer itong verbal exercises ni aragon dito:"since the days ot he cavemen, no ground,not a single fold, has been gained against mystery.""the idea of God, at least the introduction of this idea into dialectics, is nothing more than a sign of mental laziness.""there is no other knowledge than that of the particular.
Aragon was both daydreaming and pushing himself as he strolled around paris, both the actually there and the imagined.
masarap ito: maybe aragon at his surrealist best before he abandoned this for socialism.
Not as good as I hoped it would be. I spent much of the book fairly bored by its strained lyricism, with occasional flashes of enjoyment engendered by a particularly witty phrase or striking image. This is the book credited with inventing 'psychogeography', which means we have much to blame Aragon for. However, for all the literary sins of 'psychogeography', Lights Out For The Territory by Iain Sinclair, current magus of this subgenre, is a much more interesting book than this.
Este libro de Aragon se divide en dis grandes mitades pero contiene a su vez muchos otros libros y estilos: es poesía, crónica, evocación personal, escritura automática y filosofía. Me interesa la primera parte especialmente, larga exploración del pasaje de la Ópera de París, a punto de desaparecer, como lugar de paso, pero también de encuentro y de demora en la alucinación y en los restos de otras épocas. El texto es uno de los fundamentos de la filosofía del flâneur.
A surreal, first-person romp through the streets of 1920s Paris full of linguistic and metaphysical delights and fancies. I tried to read this three times before I succeeded, but it was well worth it and there are passages I will return to again and again. Readers will either find the style maddening or wonderful depending on how willingly they submit to the "vertigo of the modern".
aragon has made a few moves in his life. one of them was being a surrealist. but surrealists didn't suppose to write books so out he was, again.beautifull arrogant youthfull book that takes you to paris of the interbellum. so aragon reinvented himself a few times. the art of living.
Louis Aragon es una figura fundamental del surrealismo. Este texto (que no es una novela en sí, sino un híbrido entre crónica, ensayo y poema en prosa) es un paseo onírico por el París de los años 20; por sus peluquerías, sus baños, sus jardines.
Has some interesting moments describing the parts of Paris to be demolished. Would be surprised if this influenced Benjamin.
J'aime le surréalisme mais j'avoue que j'ai eu du mal à suivre cette oeuvre-là. Cependant quel voyage dans Paris et surtout de manière surréaliste!
engaged w/ it here: http://www.5cense.com/15/414.htm
