https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10494763-german-ideology
I’m not going to use their examples, but rather I’m going to use some that I’ve been thinking about recently.In this Marx says that Epic poetry is one of the things that is closed off once we reach a certain level of economic development – that it makes perfect sense as a form in Ancient Greece, but wouldn’t really be possible today.
What is interesting here is that changes in the economic structuring of society, brought about by the development of the productive forces – new technologies, new modes of work, new divisions of labour – all contributed to new ways of seeing the world, and, equally importantly, new understandings of what is ‘true’.
if someone wants to save the humanity than u can't ignore marx
The following three sections, critiquing the Young-Hegelian Feuerbach, Bauer, and Stirner in that order, is a real problem.
The former two, and especially Bauer, are not often read or discussed in any context but this one: in which they are shut down by Marx.
These three guys follow Hegel's Idealism but don't do much with it, especially Stirner who is a dumb idiot.Volume II closes out with some other dumb idiots who now have the gall to bash the French revolutionaries for being too "crude" and not ideal enough.The thinking was of course quality (and in many instances, the writing - Marx is pretty damn funny), but I do not recommend actually reading this work.
The political economists (Smith, Riccardo, and their followers) claimed that capitalism – the division of labour and the separation of production and property (i.e. appropriation) – is the fundamental part that underlies historical development in social and political spheres.
Since man is born with material needs; these needs lead to the need for increasing production; man’s production leads to social relationships; and this all leads to consciousness of Nature (as a means to produce); it follows that man’s actions determine the world and ideas follow suit.
Materialism, the stance that not ideas (subject) but man and nature (object) determine reality, is Marx’s alternative to German Idealism.
I've been feeling like I don't read enough difficult books anymore, so The German Ideology was my crack at one.
It is early Marx and Engels, in which they are first iterating their theories of materialism.
One thing that has always struck me from the few times I've read Marx....I tend to think of Marxism as philosophy, and it is always interesting to see how much it was offered as science, a form I don't think ages well for it.
One other thing....Marx weighs in one of the old questions here: Whether it is better to fight the system or transcend it.
I have a soft spot for Marx...he has to be one of the most misread and misunderstood authors in history. I think this text, along with the Economic and Philosophic Manuscripts of 1844, really highlight the emphasis he placed on human consciousness and its intricate connection to the material world and mode of production which (alarmingly) conventional readings of Marx minimize, if not, completely ignore.
Let me explain.Marx in this book is, while formulating his thought, bouncing off of, refuting, and satirizing the positions of a number of now largely forgotten German idealist thinkers (Feuerbach, Stirner, etc.) and their approaches, condemning them for engaging in Hegelian shell games rather than actually pursuing a real, world-changing political philosophy.
It's not a casual read, and, really, for most of us who aren't German academics, a few excerpts are fine, but it is a game attempt at a philosophical house-cleaning.
And, for the modern reader, it makes you realize how disappointed dear old Karl would be at the academic "Marxists" today who attempt to bombard his philosophy with similarly idealist tendencies.
Obviously didn't read the whole thing, pretty much everything after the chapter on Feuerbach is just Marx being rude about young hegelians
The authors point out that communism isn't simply a "state of affairs" that might be understood into being, but an actual movement, i.e. the a real shift in relations brought about by another material force in history.Seeing that consciousness arises out of productive forces, we can then understand where history as a distinct entity of human existence and temporal process begins to take root.
Insightful, funny and Marx at his best. A great starter for people who want to understand his work and ideas.
For the first time in this book Marx & Engels (i would say Marx&Engels with subject He, because i think they both can not be divided with one another, they both are indeed an appearance of dialectic) explained materialistic conception of history and emphasized communism as deterministic society.
A very interesting example i got from the class :"Our development is our own deed" - secularised version (scientific worldview)"Our development is our own consciousness/reason" - idealised version (negativ)In my understanding sofar, He seems here deconstructing everything, He tried excellently to expose our view from cultural attributes, identities and symbols (superstructure : for instance like politics, hierarchies, state, everything which causes division of labour) which un- or intentionally (by nature) formed or established based on economical reason (Basis).
For all his nay-saying about German ideology, Marx (and Engels) remains a German ideologue--and a very thorough one.
Materialism, as Marx would have it, owes a debt to Hegel and romantic philosophy in general.
He (Marx)may have turned metaphysics on its head, yet he failed to remove the head.
Materialism itself, if history is anything to go by, has failed to achieve that.Marx's nay-sayings about Stirner are highly entertaining.
Here Marx reminds me of Hunter Thompson: the sort of maniacal joy he found in opposition.
If Max Stirner is Sancho Panza, Marx is Cervantes.The German Ideology is very much a rant, and I enjoyed it as such.
there was German Ideology (1845-6) and the EPM of 1844.Here, in Chapter One, Feuerbach is taken to task.
A theory of history: turn that Hegel off his head and back onto his feet!
What are the preconditions of social life?
What are the ruling ideas (religion, law, politics) and their relationship to material life?
These questions are all answered for you, so pay attention!Chapter Two is reserved for Bruno Bauer.
Chapter Three for that radical egoist son-of-a-gun Max Stirner.
A lot of silly, redundant polemic expended on philosophers relegated to the dustbin of history.
Some gems in the later chapters though were dug out in my English translation.
It's an impressive piece on many levels.
Not only does he effectively topple the BS uber abstract tendencies that German philosophy had devolved into at that point (Herder, Hegel, etc.) by positing a system of thinking that was concerned with the actual material conditions of life.
I remember walking through an abandoned shopping mall in suburban Kansas City once, feeling creeped out by all of the closed stores, the empty walkways, the haunting way the muzak still played over the speakers, and just thinking how empty and cold a space could be.
Honestly, a lot of Marx sort of blurs one into another for me at this stage. However, everyone should read at least some Marx as a reminder that economics is not determinist and capitalism is not the natural order of things.
A good introduction to Karl Marx's philosophy. This book can present important issues about his philosophical thinking, such as, historical materialism, critique on the german idealism (Kant, Hegel,...), etc.A pre-resquisite book before the famous Communist Manifesto and Das Kapital.

A lot of the book feels like very abstract generalisations that if you don't already have a good grasp on Marx's ideas then it can be pretty hard to follow.
Again, this is the part where it helps if you've read Capital, since basically a lot of the sections near the end of the book (Capital) repeat the same themes as stated here but in a more comprehensible and detailed form.Part D, 'Proletarians and Communists' essentially states that the contradictions between the proletarian and the bourgeoisie that arise from the division of labour produced by the contradiction between the form of intercourse and the productive forces are what call for a revolution.
Pemerintahan Prussia dengan semena-mena menghapus undang-undang dasar yang memberikan kebebasan kepada rakyat, melakukan sensor yang ketat pada pers, dan mengawasi profesor atau guru-guru besar di universitas yang mengajarkan hal liberal.Di Berlin, di universitas-universitas masa itu, bersamaan dengan situasi politik yang menekan itu, Marx yang tak suka menemukan senjata intelektual dalam tradisi Hegelian yang sangat kental.
Dengan ini Marx mulai berpandangan bahwa “api kontemplasi di Gunung Olympus mesti dilempar kepada umat manusia oleh sosok-sosok seperti Prometheus yang mencuri api dari dewa”.Marx mengarahkan pandang pada materialisme yang dianggap bisa memenuhi atau bertindak sebagai antitesis idealisme Hegel.
Until the 1930s, it only existed in manuscript form.
Even in its final rough form, however, The German Ideology provides valuable insights into Marx's researching, thinking and writing styles.To appreciate this book fully, the reader should be familiar with: very obscure writers, the intellectual scene in Europe during the 1840s and Marx's polemical style.
I may revisit it after acquiring some of these prerequisites because it is said to reveal important information about the later direction of Marx's thought.
Summary: not the best introduction to Marx's oeuvre but still interesting and worth reconsidering after acquiring enough background.
Acabei lendo diretamente a versão da Martins Fontes e fazendo correspondência na versão da Boitempo pra conferir a tradução. Me pareceu bem truncado esse texto, talvez por não ter sido concebido como livro em si, uma obra acabada.
Skipped over most of the critique of "Saint Max" (which is the bulk of the book). It's mostly known for the first chapter, anyway. I maybe shouldn't have bought the whole thing, when the more useful parts are online and in various collections.
Tem de ser lido por qualquer pessoa, é uma leitura bem densa, pelo menos eu tive essa impressão quando eu li, porém rica.
<3
დიდი ნაგავი
he completely ruined that young hegelian boy stirner. simply hilarious.
The only main thing I got from this is that Marx and Engels want me to be an individual... by being exactly like everybody else...
Salah satu buku yang penting untuk memahami pemikiran Karl Marx.
Read the first part on Feuerbach.
Only read the first part where he lays out his conception of history, only about 80ish pages. Important read.
