https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6230.The_Son_Avenger
Good Lord.... it's left me crushed. Olav and the destruction and misery he sows is one of the most fascinating and memorable characters I've ever come across in literature. I find myself wanting to pray for him at Mass, like I'd heard the tragic story of my taciturn grandfather for the first time. Except he never existed beyond Undset's imagination--and now mine.I won't say more. This, friends, is literature.
An astonishingly mature and sympathetic exposition of the way in which the (unforgiven) sins of the fathers find their way into a second and third generation. Undset has all of Hugo's knack for the particular and historical elements of human existence, and all of Dostoevsky's sense for the universal and spiritual; all of Dostoevsky's sensitivity to the depravity of man's nature and its need for mercy, combined with all Hugo's confidence that providence works through and not only in spite of that brokenness. Undset is an absolute master of the human spirit.
The conclusion of the story. I just could not put this series down until finished. Superb writing. I love how it ends... without anyone knowing the truth but God.
Really good, interesting, and engaging book, but not the masterpiece that is Kristenlavensdottr.
This series was excellent (my rating and review stands for all 4 books). The author was able to channel a degree of saga-esque prose while also examining Christian faith and the stain of sin from a more modern perspective. On top of that, it had excellent action, extraordinarily complex and well-examined characters, and a consistency that most tetrologys cannot maintain. I look forward to Kristin Lavransdatter a great deal, as it is supposed to be the superior of the two epics.
The concluding volume of The Master of Hestviken, this book follows Olav and his children through the last years of his life, and the denouement of his estrangement from both his family and God. This book is perhaps one of the better volumes of the series, on par with the first; in many ways it is really Eirik's (his son) story as much as Olav's; the irresponsible, untruthful and overly fanciful young man really comes into his own, an honorable, respectable and very noble young man.
Undset has very quickly become one of my favorite authors of all time, and though I liked Kristin Lavransdatter slightly better, The Master of Hestviken was a memorable experience, a must-have for lovers of medieval or Scandinavian fiction, or even of just a plain good, character-driven story.
Volume one deals with youth stepping into human responsibility and, with it, the tragic perpetration of grave evil; volume two sees life lived in maturity, well and badly; volume three watches Olav draw near to but decline the chance to repent for his youthful crime; and volume four shows him growing old in his sins, slowly crushing the humanity and love of God that had drawn him to repentance, and the powerful work of God's mercy upon him and his household nevertheless, where a kindness also done in his youth and often regretted becomes the means of his salvation.Undset masterfully portrays people living their lives with careful planning, sometimes successful and sometimes undone by chance.
The conclusion of THE MASTER of HESTVIKEN is satisfying, although the decisions of the generations lead them into similar outcomes in their quest to live within the limitations of their own skin.
The thread of drama woven throughout all four volumes is Auden Audensson, The Master of Hestiviken's, struggle to reconcile the tug o' war going on his heart and soul over his allegiance to and responsibility towards the child of his wife, of whom he is not the father, the son who is both like his father (heredity) and the father who claims him as his own (environment).
Reading the four volumes of the HESTVIKEN saga, as challenging as it is to read, has been one of the satisfying reading experiences I ever had.
I will be measuring other works of fiction against this final book of Sigrid Undset's tetralogy for a long time - profoundly written with bold strokes in the style of the saga - if you are of a sentimental nature keep tissue handy as the ending does justice to Sigrid's intricate storytelling - oddly enough today my copy of INSIDE THE GATE Sigrid Undset's Life at Bjerkebaek arrived from Norway (difficult book to find and expensive but there appears to be dearth of biographical information on Sigrid's life written in English.
I felt a need to know more about this amazing woman.
For those interested the book can be ordered through http://www.aschehoug.no/fakta/histori...
be forewarned, I went to CONTROL PANEL, disabled the POPUP BLOCKER, set SECURITY to non-existent - only then was I able to complete the transaction)

The glorious and dramatic finale of the tetralogy, in which Olav's daughter marries and his son Erick tries a few different vocations.
The sins of Olav's past erupt, however, in the vagaries of his children's lives.
By the end, we see a mixture of justice and mercy, of partial redemption, and we strive to identity the thread of grace slowly burning away at the intransigence of ancient sin.
It's more dramatic than the previous books, and contains surprise turns at a surprising pace.
Undset's typical richness of lush description of locale and the inner movements of the psyche and heart are on full display, bringing the series to a satisfactory close.
This was the final installment of "The Master of Hestviken" series by Undset, who won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1928. Norway in the 14th century is the setting, and the book completes the saga of the family of Olav Audonsson.
Just finished this series. I read the Kristin Lavransdatter series in high school and loved it. This series is just as gripping. It's fascinating to read about Old Norway with the clash of the old Viking ethics and the newer Christian beliefs and culture.
Just posted a review of sorts. I'm sure it'll take much longer for me to flesh out my thoughts on the books!http://quickeyedlove.wordpress.com/20...
I loved the whole series. LOVED.
