https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/455523.Reasonable_Faith
Considering how many books the 'New Atheists' sell, I think it's an absolute crime how few Christians even know about this guy, let alone his workMy first experience with the author's work was watching a youtube video of his debate with Frank Zindler on 'Does God Exist?' After hearing WLC's opening speech in the debate where he laid out his five main arguments for the existence of God (all covered in this book), my jaw actually dropped.
Well as I said it includes all of the major arguments he brings up in debates involving the existence of God and the truth of Christianity by successfully arguing the validity of the gospels and Christ's resurrection.
But ultimately you have to deal, not with arguments, but with God himself.' [William Lane Craig, Reasonable Faith: Christian Truth and Apologetics, (Revised edition, Wheaton, IL: Crossway, 1994), p.
[William Lane Craig, Reasonable Faith: Christian Truth and Apologetics, (Revised edition, Wheaton, IL: Crossway, 1994), p.
[William Lane Craig, Reasonable Faith: Christian Truth and Apologetics, (Revised edition, Wheaton, IL: Crossway, 1994), p.
[William Lane Craig, Reasonable Faith: Christian Truth and Apologetics, (Revised edition, Wheaton, IL: Crossway, 1994), p.
[William Lane Craig, Reasonable Faith: Christian Truth and Apologetics, (Revised edition, Wheaton, IL: Crossway, 1994), p.
It is a sad fact that most apologists (both current and past) have problems with keeping their focus on the issue at hand.
It is important to focus on a step-by-step procedure to take the reader from square one towards the truth of the gospel.
Doubters gonna doubt.
Skeptics gonna...
The answers in apologetics are powerful but they are not pertinent until the seeker is seeking truth rather than seeking a fallacy in Christian logic.
The 'good news of the gospel' is entirely irrelevant until one realizes the bad news of the human condition: namely the hopelessness of life without salvation, the absurdity of life without God, and the tragedy of eternity without Christ.
Especially the defense of the ontological argument, which can get really technical in formal logic in the scholarly papers I've read.The last half of the book is taken up by the historical arguments for God's existence (i.e. Jesus's resurrection).
I did not really study this section of the book that well since I am not interested in such works, but I have been told by friends who are students of history that Craig has one of the best defenses of the resurrection out there.Craig also includes a nice bit of application for his arguments, which is very needed and very helpful.
This is likely going to be one of the most in-depth apologetics books you'll ever read.
I wouldn't recommend this book to a lay-person who is beginning their quest at becoming a better Christian apologist.
If you're a beginner, you may become frustrated because of the "information overload" that this book will undoubtedly bring to the table.
It is best to take this book slow and fully absorb the information in order to get the most out of it.
Overall, it is likely one of the most carefully articulated and substantive books on Christian apologetics ever written in my opinion.
This is not a beginner's apologetics book like Lee Strobel's The Case for Christ.
The text is very philosophical and scientific (at least in the chapter regard the evidence in favor of creationism) in its outlook, so if you haven't read other beginner's apologetics books or have a grounding in philosophy or science, you may very well get lost.
Having said that, this book is not too difficult as Dr. Craig takes the time to show where certain criticisms came from historically and why they fail to upset traditional Christian theology.
He tirelessly goes through arguments against Christianity and proves that they don’t stand up.
He uses physics and logic and mathematics and physiology and many other areas to prove the reality of Christianity.
Very detailed and at times, especially when sub points to arguments, I was somewhat lost.
And he lays out the arguments claims against Jesus including his resurrection and shows that the resurrection is the only options that stands up.
In the end, the best apologetic for the reality of Jesus and God is the life of a Christian.
However, in this book, William Lane Craig presents a very convincing philosophical & rational offensive apologetic for the existence of God & the truth of Christianity.
This book contains strong arguments for the faith that I believe are unmatched in this day & age.By the way, William Lane Craig is one of the premier evangelical apologists around.
Craig at heart is an evangelist & this book is designed to help believers to not only deal w/intellectual objections to the Christian faith, but to point people to Jesus Christ.
An excellent defense of basic Christian doctrine.
The book was written for survey courses in Apologetics at Christian seminaries and has just been released in its third edition.
Craig is obviously biased, but he's honest about it and his academic rigor and clarity of argument stand by themselves (he holds both a PhD and DTheol, and is a professor at the Talbot School of Theology in Southern California).
Regardless of who you are this is a great place to turn for an intelligent defense of Christianity.
Excellent.
This is like a textbook and heavy on scholarship.
Not a popular level read exactly.
But pure fire for melting away skepticism.
I have the strange complaint of wishing I could more thoroughly absorb and recall on command its every insight.
It's frustrating in that regard.
Rarely is something so dense and rich that I've felt frustrated by my memory's capacity for retaining it.
I wish I'd read it the day it was published.
If a book like this doesn't work for you, it's okay.
Reasonablefaith.org presents all of this information and more via essays, q&a's, podcast chats, debate videos, animated videos, etc etc.
He walks through the topics of the relation between faith and reason, the absurdity of life without God, the existence of God, how we can have historical knowledge, miracles, Jesus' claims, and Jesus' resurrection.
• Do homine (man): absurdity of life without God.• De Deo (God): existence of God.• De Creatione (creation): problem of historical knowledge and problem of miracles.• De Cristo (Christ): personal claims of Christ, historicity of Jesus' resurrection.NotesIntroduction: What Is Apologetics?This book takes an offense apologetics approach.
Pagan gods were linked to seasonal changes; Jesus' resurrection was a one-time event.Conclusion: The Ultimate Apologetic"More often than not, it is who you are, rather than what you say, that will bring an unbeliever to Christ.
all i can say is that the divide between a 'faithful' person and a 'reasonable' person has never been wider for me.
but those of us who demand extraordinary proof for extraordinary claims will remain unmoved by the 'evidence presented herein.every single one of lane's arguments for christianity also work just as well for islam, mormonism, and pastafarianism.
he readily admits that none of his arguments would really work, only an intervention by the holy spirit can actually make a person know god and jesus are real.
i guess the ol' spirit isn't interested in dwelling in this bag of meat.
William Lane Craig seems like someone who has spent a lot of time looking into philosophical and scientific reasons for the existence of God. Unfortunately, he readily states early on that science can never provide evidence against God, because faith is more important than the knowledge provided from scientific discovery.
Craig's habit of twisting any evidence to support his stance shows a bias which he has no desire to overcome.
There are some interesting arguments mentioned in the book, but his method of twisting each one to suit the underlying foundation in faith was too frustrating for me to actually take him seriously and finish the whole book.
This is an in-depth investigation into five rational arguments in favour of the existence of God: the cosmological, teleological, moral, ontological and the evidence for the resurrection.Craig really does go into the fine detail for some of these.
It satisfies the scientist in me to read this, but it might be a bit much for some!
If you don't have higher education in science or philosophy you might struggle, but it's well worth persevering.
There is no defence of typical arguments used against Christianity.
I'd be interested to read a book of Craig's with these in.
If you can only afford one apologetics book get this one. Craig is a brilliant man and has a great passion for the Lord. This is not an academic text but is a bit advanced for those that have never read apologetics or philosophy. All the major arguments are presented briefly but fully. Highly recommended! ps - his free podcasts are wonderful as well.
The best contemporary classical/historical-approach apologetics work I've read to date. Craig is a top-notch philosopher and I like his concise and coherent style. I've read the second ed. twice and the third ed. once (the third edition is quite a bit better)
This book kicked my butt. It is a complicated read, but I was still able to pick up some great nuggets. I recommend to anyone wanting to be challenged by Christian apologetics. Just be warned that most of this stuff is way over the typical layman's head...
junk read it if you hate yourself
Toward this end, he builds a case for a creator by defending the traditional arguments for God’s existence – ontological, cosmological, teleological, moral – with answers to modern objections.
Our subjective experience shapes how we view the external world, and I have no good reason to doubt the plenty of atheists and even theists who don’t show any personal and perennial desire for “ultimate significance.” Craig would say that non-theists who live happy lives are deluded.
Heavy material (took me over a month to read), but an excellent resource. The conclusion was the best I've read in any apologetics book.
This book is a textbook treatment on the subject of Christian apologetics.
I found my best experience with this book was when I read a bit--say, a few pages or even a good chunk of a chapter--then set the book down for some days or even weeks to rest from it, then come back to it.Overall, I had just two real nitpicks with the book.
This was a real slog, and during reading it felt a bit like I was lost down the rabbit hole of argument and debate.Set those aside, though, because I can't give this book less than 5 stars.
Too often when I'm trying to have an intellectual conversation with people, they hide behind emotional arguments or act inconsistent in their logic, and Craig's other books break down the common arguments for and against the Christian Religion.
Studying apologetics I don't think has helped me win over anyone - but it has helped me understand the nature of my own beliefs better, and also helped me be a better listener as I try to discern what other people are saying - and I'd point you to other resources if the nature of the problem is more personal or emotion rather than an intellectual problem.
Craig acknowledges that many people do not need apologetic arguments to come to Christ.
Craig believes that the witness of the Holy Spirit is more important than any argument to the believer (Rom. 8:15-16), but apologetics can still strengthen the believer’s faith.
We should learn apologetics to show that blind faith is not required for accepting Christianity.Craig thoroughly explains many arguments for the existence of a personal God: cosmological (from both a scientific and philosophical position), teleological, moral, and ontological.
Craig is right in accepting the premise that the universe began to exist; before the Big Bang there was nothing, not even space or time.
He also makes a compelling case that at the very least, his disciples were convinced that Jesus had been resurrected from the dead as evidenced by the conversion of his brothers who had not believed in him prior to the resurrection, and by the willingness of the disciples to be killed rather than recant their belief.Over all, I thought he dismissed some counter arguments to quickly, it was hard to read, but he did a good job of presenting the scholarly side of an issue that is ultimately one of faith.
He shows that there are good reason to think Christianity is true.
As Craig says, "If you have a sound and persuasive case for Christianity, you don't have to become an expert in comparative religions and Christian cults.”	I cannot recollect any significant weakness of the book, but I was able to identify lots of very good points especially regard to evangelicalism and the sharing of the good news.
Therefore we must learn well both the gospel and the culture and I think that we must be sensible of the needs of the people.
He shows that there are good reason to think Christianity is true.
As Craig says, "If you have a sound and persuasive case for Christianity, you don't have to become an expert in comparative religions and Christian cults.”	I cannot recollect any significant weakness of the book, but I was able to identify lots of very good points especially regard to evangelicalism and the sharing of the good news.
Therefore we must learn well both the gospel and the culture and I think that we must be sensible of the needs of the people.
This is an overview of multiple arguments, for God's existence, for possibility of miracles, to the historicity of Jesus' resurrection.
Craig covers all the basic territory here, the major arguments for God's existence and a sophisticated, updated version of 'lord, lunatic, or liar' sort of argument for Jesus' special status and resurrection.
The reason I read this book is not because I expected to be convinced by his analysis, but out of curiosity to understand the sort of reasoning and thinking that underlies this approach to Christianity.
And this, I think, is a well done, thoughtful presentation of that.
An important book to understand the how reason is used to defend the Bible as true. Of course the Holy Spirit first works in the heart and is the one that draws men. The Bible can defended as a historical text and Jesus can be understood as not as a teacher or a good man, but the Son of God who historically died and rose again. If you want to learn more read the book. And if want to know Jesus read the Bible. Romans and John are a good place to start.
Craig is absolutely brilliant, probably the most persuasive Christian apologist alive. But he's not trustworthy. His primary goal is to evangelize, and in the process he engages in what I can only describe as sophism. He attacks the weakest counter-arguments while glossing over the strongest ones. He provides some very slick arguments which seem persuasive to the lay reader but crumble upon careful analysis.
I am currently reading the most recent edition of this book (3rd edition) and it is great. It can be quite technical in places so careful reading is necessary. Dr. Craig outlines his arguments for Christianity and presents sound reasoning in defending them. This book can be read by the lay person but I must mention again that careful reading is necessary. However, if you have already seen some of Dr. Craig's debates and speeches then this book should not be too hard to follow.
