https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2984286-a-rose-for-emily
At the time it didn't bring him much commercial success, nor did his now famous novels, The Sound and the Fury (1929), and As I Lay Dying (1930).
That success would come later in his career with two Pulitzer Prize winning novels, A Fable (1954), and The Reivers (1962), along with the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1949.A Rose for Emily is the tragic story of Miss Emily Grierson, who is Faulkner's symbol for the dying, decaying traditions and prejudices of the old South.
With a surprising and shocking ending, it's William Faulkner at his best.4.5 stars
This is a short story - not at all a "book" - and I found a version online.
It's interesting how people will look the other way when they know something is wrong or someone is up to no good, as a show of "respect." It's also interesting to me how Emily clings to tradition - the structure she has always known - instead of breaking free, into the unknown.
She holds onto her father's corpse as a way of resisting changes to her life.
In the end - she transforms into her father - controlling, secretive, manipulative.
Analyses of this story are a great rabbit hole - I'm about to jump in!
"A Rose for Emily" was an enjoyable Southern Gothic short story.
Emily was alone in the world because her father had driven away all her suitors.
We see the world move on as the reclusive Emily remains stuck in traditional times in a changing Southern town.
After her death, the townspeople learn about her hidden life.Faulkner used many Gothic elements in this short story--an old dusty mansion, death, the smell of decay, and an eccentric woman with a mental illness.
The last sentence is shocking--a perfect ending to the story.
This was an October Moderator's Choice for the "On the Southern Literary Trail" group.
A sad, disturbing tale.
You want to open all the windows in the house after reading it.This was my second Faulkner.
I don’t enjoy him.
But it turns out I can’t, and the story makes itself at home inside my head and refuses to leave.
Now Emily and her loved ones are in there too.
*shudder* I guess it’s time for me to give in and accept Faulkner’s greatness and just read more of his works--accept that there are some things you just can’t control.Of course that’s not what Emily would say …
She was an eccentric woman who might be characterized as stubborn and who certainly lived her life on her own terms.Suffering from the loss of her father, the only person of which she had any kind of relationship with before Homer, she'd prefer the company of a corpse rather than suffer the utter loneliness that she felt was to come of her relationship with Homer.
At the outset of the story we learn that Miss Emily is dead; while relating the details of her life, we learn that her father dies and leaves her alone to navigate a world in which she has barely learned to live; she withdraws into herself only to be reawakened by her "lover", who uses her and then discards her, and whose death is her dark secret that keeps her further isolated from the world outside her home.
What a metaphor for the South Faulkner lived in...a world with one foot still in the past, which it has glamorized, and one foot in the unsettling reality that has followed.
Donne sfregiate ma non arrese3 racconti3 donneUna scrittura potentecontundente.Emily, con i suoi altezzosi occhi neri e i capelli color grigio ferro , che di tanto in tanto si vedeva ad una delle finestre del pianterreno che ci guardava oppure non ci guardava, era impossibile dirlo.
This short story is sad and macabre but unfortunately timeless and realistic. A town watches the decay caused by mental illness as they are unequipped to provide any real help.
"A ROSE FOR EMILY" is my first experience with Faulkner, and it was quite a beginning!
This short story is darkly atmospheric in its descriptive prose of the dusty, smelly and decaying old mansion in which Emily lives in seclusion, and high on the "ICK" factor by the shocking conclusion.Poor lonely Emily though.....I felt so sorry for her having a mean old father who turns away all her suitors.....but eventually.....Emily does find.....(view spoiler)[.....and forever keeps.....a man of her own.
(hide spoiler)]So glad I noticed GR friend Connie's excellent review today as it drew my attention to this novel!
Jesus, the South is fine, isn't it. It's better than the theatre, isn't it.(Absalom, Absalom!)Μετά τον θάνατο του αυταρχικού πατέρα της, η περήφανη και απομονωμένη Έμιλυ ξεπέφτει και ως γνήσιο γέννημα του Φώκνερ (ή του Νότου;) αρνείται να αποδεχτεί την κατάσταση.Η γνωριμία της με τον Χόμερ Μπάρον, δεν φέρνει την επιθυμητή αλλαγή στην ζωή της. Ο Χόμερ αντί να την παντρευτεί, την παρατάει κι έτσι η Έμιλυ απομονώνεται ξανά στο παραμελημένο σπίτι της.Το τέλος φρικιαστικό, και σκάει σαν διπλό χαστούκι.(Οι γεροντοκόρες του Φώκνερ, που δεν έχουν παρόν, ούτε μέλλον, είναι οι αγαπημένες μου)
The story, published in 1930, takes place in Faulkner's fictional town Jefferson, Mississippi, and begins with the main character Emily Grierson's funeral, and flashbacks of her life, narrated by neighbors that never got to know her.
Emily is a member of the Southern aristocracy.
They deny that they are anything else than aristocracy, and Emily turns down proposals because of the suitors' low status.
At least, that's what the neighbors think.
Then, to the neighbors disbelief, she meets Homer Barron, a simple man from the north.
Faulkner's prose is rich, but he doesn't serve everything without demands from the reader.
Tre storie raccontate per colpire l'immaginazione dei lettori, con donne che hanno comportamenti mascolini, brutali, scontrosi, forti.Dei tre racconti l’ultimo, “Adolescenza", è quello che mi è piaciuto di più, per la sua disperazione latente, per le descrizioni del paesaggio e del divario generazionale, per il ritmo della narrazione, per le ultime due pagine, semplicemente meravigliose.Bravissimo Faulkner, una scrittura meravigliosa, efficace, intensa che riesce a catturare immediatamente l'attenzione e a non mollarla più fino alla fine.
Una scrittura espressiva, tutt'altro che complessa anche se mai banale, che lascia alla fine un sapore amaro di solitudine e desolazione.
Zilphia Gant,  non meno bianca del cuscino sul quale poggiava, aveva due occhi che sembravano buchi fatti col pollice in un pezzo di carta assorbente , stanca della vita prima ancora di viverla, per colpa di una madre asfissiante a sua volta ferita; Miss Emily Grierson,  gli occhi, che si muovevano da un visitatore all’altro… sembravano due carboni piantati in una pagnotta cruda e la solitudine come unica compagna; e la piccola Juliet  una monella sottile come un giunco, scurissima di pelle, con gli occhi stretti, neri e insondabili come quelli di un animale di pezza, e una folta capigliatura nera bruciata dal sole.
Questo libro contiene 3 piccole storie, ognuna ha come centro una donna, che diventa allegoria del sud povero degli Stati Uniti.
Una terra crudele, in cui non c’è alleanza tra gli uomini ma diffidenza, un luogo aspro in cui vivere, senza lo spazio per i sentimenti superflui come l’affetto.
Bellissimi i finali, macabri, sofferti e come sempre la sua scrittura sopraffina.
Lontano, lontano oltre la terra di ottobre un cane ululava, e il lungo suono morbido di un corno ondeggió attorno a lei, colmando l’aria come un perturbamento di acque tranquille...” è dentro “adolescenza”, il mio preferito tra i 3
Sheesh! I read this a thousand years ago and loved it. We just finished a book in one of my good reads groups that reminded me of this, but I found Love in a Dry Season to fall short of this mark.
*Read For Class*
I like as much information as possible.
Somehow Faulkner took 10 pages and told a story that was complex and surprisingly well fleshed-out.
He gave the story so many layers of information, and I think he did this because he used First Person Plural so well.
It allowed him to expose so much more of the story than he could have done with First Person Singular, and yet it retained the intimacy that comes from writing in First Person.If this story is anything like some of his novels then I am certain to find another favorite to add to my list.
She went out to buy arsenic, a really strong poison to do god knows what.
After she bought arsenic she invited the guy she loved over.
People went to her home to check things out and they broke down a door that hasn't been opened for years.
They came to find the guy she loved laying there dead for years now, next to a pillow with an indentation of her head and a strand of her hair.
It was love that kept her to do those things that she did.
Primo incontro con Faulkner.Su consiglio di @fiamma, comincio da questi tre racconti brevi.L'impatto
در کتاب نقد داستان ترجمه از جناب گلشیری در مورد نقد این داستان خوندم که فاکنر در نظر داشته بگوید که غریب ترین مسئله هر جامعه جزیی طبیعی از آن جامعه است یا بهتر گفته شود هیولایی که از میان جامعه قد میافرازد جدا از آن جامعه نیست.
او مثل هر زنی دیگر بعد از آنکه مردی با هر ترفندی که شده، قلب تنهای او را توانسته بود به دست بیاورد، انتظار داشت که برای همیشه با این عشق بماند، اما قسمت تراژیک داستان در این است که امیلی مغرور و خودخواه وقتی بی وفایی میبیند
او مثل هر زنی دیگر بعد از آنکه مردی با هر ترفندی که شده، قلب تنهای او را توانسته بود به دست بیاورد، انتظار داشت که برای همیشه با این عشق بماند، اما قسمت تراژیک داستان در این است که امیلی مغرور و خودخواه وقتی بی وفایی میبیند خود را محق میداند تا به روش خود (خوراندن زهر به هومر بارون) مرد را برای همیشه نزد خود نگه دارد.
به نظرم همانقدر عمل دختر جوان در داستان نازنین داستایوسکی، معقول بود که عمل امیلی در این داستان ....
In Emily’s idea, she no longer knew the difference between living and death, so no matter Homer was alive or not, as long as he was with her, Emily had no problem with that.
If it was true that the servant was in love with Emily, how come he didn’t clean it up for her?
Those questions above for the Emily-servant relationship were often asked, and the relationship between Homer and the slave could explain them all!!!!
Homer and the servant fell in love with each other, and been found out by Emily.
Emily Grierson's life, shown through flashbacks, speaks of lonely and reclusive desperation.
Driven to her home, during a time when a woman had few options beyond wife and mother, she meets a Yankee gentleman and before long, they disappear.The town around her changes, except Emily holds on to the Southern genteelness from her past.
From time to time, the town sees a bit of life stemming from her home.
A daughter and a black assistant come to and fro once in a while, leaving her neighbors wondering about the activity inside.Yet, they leave her be until her death and subsequent funeral.What they find, while rifling through her belongings, leaves horrific chills to the narrators and readers for generations to come.Loneliness grips its beholders for better and for worse.
Bellissima raccolta di racconti. Duri, amari, con poco spazio per la speranza, ma scritti benissimo e di indubbio fascino e capacità di analisi e descrizione di personaggi e situazioni. Tre donne protagoniste, tutte in qualche modo segnate dalla vita, tutte capaci di gesti estremi, ma perfettamente in linea con la loro storia e il loro passato. È terribile pensare quanto siano realistici questi racconti. Che dire se non: leggetelo!
I racconti sono bellissimi e stanno molto bene insieme. Personaggi storti, scorbutici, feriti che arrancano nella vita e spesso per tutta la vita. Donne che incontrano uomini, o che li combattono. La crescita, la giovinezza, la vecchiaia, la testardaggine, la società onnipresente che giudica e che spia.Ma sopra tutta questa ineluttabile miseria umana si erge maestosa la scrittura di Faulkner, un gigante dalla penna pesante che scava parole sul foglio, lo scalpella e lo cesella come un Michelangelo della pagina, a martellate. Una prosa lenta, spigolosa, densa, potente. Perfetta.Faulkner...E pensare che ho letto così poco di lui!Voto:10
Oh yeah this book (read for 11th grade English). Oh what lengths we would go through and the things we let tolerate for good ol' chivalry. But the real moral here is how extreme and stubborn a particular group of people can be to change. Despite Faulkner's own views, whatever they truly are, he never shys away from telling the truth about his people and his enviorment and is what makes him in my view a natural successor to Mark Twain.
A very short Short Story about the decay and traditions of the Old South. Very well written and a bit creepy.
Non voglio certo mancare di rispetto a qualcuno, questi sono tre buoni racconti, mi sono piaciuti, ma il vero Faulkner lo troverò da un'altra parte. Potrei giurarci.
But man, this is William Faulkner, so there better not be any romance in it :D Instead, this is a chilling Southern gothic story with an unexpected twist at the end that reveals a lot about the main character - Miss Emily.It's not easy to understand all aspect of a William Faulkner's short story if we just plainly read it.
This is why I made use of SparkNotes' analysis of the story to get more in-depth understanding of what "A Rose for Emily" is actually about, and the more I read the analysis, the more I find the story shocking and heartbreaking at the same time.
Anyway, I remember that this was my first encounter with necrophilia.
it sparked my curiosity towards this topic, I remember spending hours on the net trying to explore it more, which heightened my reading experience for the short story.
I really empathized with Emily, her relationship with his father, the control he had over her, and the catastrophic consequences which resulted from his making decisions on her behalf are all elements which I could relate to.Emily was one of the characters which story resonates with me till this day, and probably always will.
FRTC
