https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/157132.The_Folded_Leaf

Perhaps I wasn't completely ready for its simplicity and beauty then; maybe I'm wiser.But, wisdom: Maxwell was one of the wisest, purest, sparest writers around, weaving his simple, ordinary plots with, seemingly, magic spells that made you look at life in a unique way."The Folded Leaf" tells the lovely and at times heartbreaking story of an unusual friendship, a love story, if you will, between male friends with no labels attached.
Maxwell follows the boys' friendship for about four years, from high school into college.
Set in the 1920s in Chicago, the story centered on the unlikely friendship between two adolescent males: Lymie Peters and Spud Latham.
There was a chapter wholly devoted to the desert which did flow better from the story line: "The desert is the natural dwelling place not only of Arabs and Indians but also of people who can't speak when they want to and of those others who, like Lymie Peters, have nothing more to say, people who have stopped justifying and explaining, stopped trying to account for themselves or their actions, stopped hoping that someone will come along and love them, and so make sense out of their lives." Heartbreaking but real for some of us.
Amazing book. Beautifully written. Maxwell describes the Latham apartment in paragraph after paragraph, which might turn boring in the hands of a lesser writer. But the description was lovely in and of itself, and also let me see who these people were, without Maxwell having to directly state it. Complicated, real characters and believable dialogue. I will remember these people for a long time.
Two fifteen year old boys, one solidly middle class, athletic, and good looking (Spud), the other lower middle class, half-orphaned, small, skinny, and ridiculously unathletic (Lymie), become best friends on the north side of Chicago in the 1920s.
Spud's family has been forced to move from a large, comfortable house in Wisconsin to Chicago, and he sleeps in a closet-like porch in the apartment, but his family is whole and his mother serves big, nourishing meals every night.
Their social lives continue apace: Spud boxes and is invited to join a fraternity and falls in love with a girl, while Lymie gets good grades, is ignored by the fraternities, and expands his crush on Spud.
I came to this with some reservations - a gay novel written in the 40's about a relationship in 1920's Chicago ran the risk of being irrelevant, coy, and too tragic for a post gay rights reader.
It's obvious this was written in a time when the "love that could not be named - couldn't be written about in a novel.
It's equally obvious that Maxwell didn't want to write one of those books wading in queer subtext - so he wrote about silence.
This is a study of human nature, not just a queer love affair in a time it wasn't allowed.
Maxwell's gorgeous, patient prose, by contrast, achieves the admirable task of placing the reader in the minds and milieus of these young men, without forgetting that there is an entire world of frustrated and failing adults around them.
Indeed, in addition to the story of the boys, Maxwell also shows us the almost charming ignorance of the privileged, the isolated social realm of the university and those who subsist on its margins, and the pained self-awareness of men who have failed at their task of raising their sons.
fiction doesn't get much better. some unexpected turning points, a great campus novel, and a very gentle, soft yet simmering tone
I didn't expect to like this and it got off to a slow start, but in the end it was worthwhile. Tale of two young men and a young woman who wind up in a love triangle. Given the date this was written, there is no sexual component, but one of desire, longing, and trying to live the life society wants you to live. Billed as one of the earliest gay novels (one young man desires the other), it is tame by today's standards, but I appreciated the prose and the story.
The story tells of Lymie and Spud, two young boys who share a strong friendship, even though they seem utterly different.
The novel is told primarily from the perspective of Lymie, a shy, withdrawn, introverted and very sensitive young man who loves Spud with all of his heart.
Spud, on the other hand, is somewhat stronger, an athlete who does not understand, but is able to appreciate, the sensitivity of his friend.
The story of their friendship and its inevitable change as they mature into adults is told with psychological prescience and great nuance.
The reviewer on the back of the book described Maxwell's tone in this novel as 'anthropological.' I disagree.
While it did seem somewhat detached--it felt detached in a "masculine" way--meaning in the way (particularly in the time the novel was set and written) men are expected to not express their emotions directly (this tendency being embodied, in particular, by Spud) rather than in a "scientific" or purely observational way.
This detachment made the moments of poetry even more profound as well as contrasted with the eventual realization of Lymie's and even Spud's (actual) complete lack of detachment.
This book was published ages ago; it was one of the first " serious " novels I'd read about being young and gay.
Made me feel a little bit better than before I'd read it.
The gays have been around for a while, and this gives you an idea of what it might have been like in the 1920's.
From the Publisher: Here is a classic novel from one of our most honored writers--the author of such acclaimed works as So Long, See You Tomorrow and All the Days and Nights.
Why it took me this long to read more Maxwell, I don't know.
Maybe it's because I read _So Long, See you Tomorrow_ three times and kind of idealized it.
The scenes in which volumes are left unsaid, the assumptions and misunderstandings, the tensions that are just barely or not relieved at all---it takes admirable patience to write like this, and a generosity of spirit to handle characters so delicately and ethically (meaning: they are fully drawn).
I missed writing like this and didn't even know it.
In a way, this was like visiting a foreign country: a boy's coming of age story set in the midwest in the early 20th century.
Maxwell's writing is vivid and evocative.
There were a few odd passages, sort of dream-like inserts, as if you were entering into the private thoughts of the character, muddled and inchoate and jejune.
As the novel progresses, you feel the darkness building, creating a tension that Maxwell resolves with an unexpected gaiety.
Quite a splendid novel and hard to imagine that he topped it, though some say "Time Will Darken It" does.
It's at the same time both easy AND very hard to write about this strange period of adolescence in a way by which I feel attracted. I have always had a particular fondness of stories such as the one presented here, however, often the tone & style make the different works of different authors too easily interchangeable to stand out as remarkable pieces. Maxwell's narration certainly achieves that (for me). I loved it when he leaves the close-up perspective of the characters, and draws general conclusions or puts their individual actions into a much wider, almost universal context.
Stunning ... a beautifully written account about the tensions within a friendship between two college students. Set in the Chicago suburbs in the 1920s, the tale is at times funny yet deeply profound and very moving. Maxwell has the ability of capturing snapshots of life and then describing them to the reader as if the scenario and characters are right in front of you. Without a doubt, I believe Maxwell truly is one of America's greatest writers.
"...it's deprivation that makes people writers, if they have it in them to be a writer," Maxwell said in an interview for the Paris Review. The Folded Leaf is more of an autumnal ache hinting at Maxwell's own 'real life' deprivations than a conventional novel. I love when he goes off into lofty, philosophical tangents in his writing. A favorite quote from this book: "In solitude only can we attune ourselves to the meaning of nature and the deep heart of man."
Maxwell is a fine writer, one of the best I've read. So confident, so assured. Of an entirely different world than contemporary novelists, many of whom, even if they write beautifully, seem to suffer from a kind of tentativeness. This novel is particularly compelling.
Sometimes moving, sometimes meandering, this story of the intense friendship between two Chicago boys is worth reading. I liked the boyhood chapters more than the college part. Something of the atmosphere was lost in the later chapters.
A beautiful book. One of my all time favorites. What i have gained from this nook is priceless.

He's so insightful and humorous. Only read two of Maxwell's books but he is one of my favourites already.
felt like a warm hug
Loved it. Reminded me of an Icelandic film I've just seen - Heartstone, which I also recommend.
A gentle, subtle examination of an unlikely friendship between two boys in 1920's Chicago.
This book was good but only made me want to re-read one of my favorites "So Long, See You Tomorrow".
They liked each other extremely well, but it is Spud’s misinterpretation of Lymie’s friendship with her that causes the conflict, not any realistic attraction at all.Are Lymie and Spud homosexual?
I think that others see their relationship a little more clearly than they do themselves, notably the effeminate landlord (there’s always one!) and Spud’s own family, who, until Sally is brought home to meet them, had been entirely accepting of Lymie’s place in Spud’s life.The crisis comes when a mutual acquaintance tells Lymie (and it’s never acknowledged as to whether it’s a true tale he tells) that Spud hates Lymie because of Sally’s friendship.
One of the finest novels in existence, this book is a pleasure to read, or in this case, read again many times over. The prose, almost a poem, elevates the story of Spud and Lymie to an epic more befitting the Greeks than two Midwestern boys growing into men. It is their dynamics and interactions (or more aptly, their unsaid feelings and small gestures that belie profound affections) that are the story. More is left unsaid than said, but what is said becomes one of the most profound love stories ever written.
Set in Illinois before WWII, “Leaf” follows the life of Lymie Peters, a boy who lost his mother early and is being raised by an often absent salesman father who brings home the occasional younger woman for “parties.” In high school Lymie’s life is literally and figuratively saved by “Spud” Latham, a jock who recently moved into town with his family from Wisconsin.
Lymie’s clinginess and dependency on Spud eventually cause Spud to reject Lymie, leading to catastrophic results.I was curious how this book would compare to Maxwell’s brilliant final novel, “So Long, See You Tomorrow.” Both deal with teenage friendships in small town Illinois and in both a main character is haunted by the loss of his mother when he was younger.
The choice to tell this story at a significant distance seems right, not only because the events of this coming-of-age novel could easily slip into melodrama or sentimentality, but also because the quiet observations of the characters from varying points of view allows the reader to see more completely the world in which Spud and Lymie are situated, certainly more clearly than either of them could articulate on their own.The distant third-person narration also seems necessary given the time and the subject matter.
