https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40318.Back_to_the_Bedroom
Katie Finn doesn’t have time to deal with the hole in her roof, her broken bed and the ruined (brand new!!) feather quilt: she has a matinee to play in, she needs to get to the Kennedy Centre with her cello now!
By the time she returns, in the pouring rain, Dave is on the roof trying to cover the hole.
Elsie Hawkins, an elderly ex-resident of a care facility, turns up to rent Katie’s spare room, and Dave continues to make himself useful to Katie, hoping she’ll soon realise she’s in love with him too.
Because it was there and I needed a laugh. :)
I can sum all of them up for you......feisty (usually redhead or blonde with ringlet curls), independent and strong-willed female stumbles across incredibly gorgeous hunk of a man who sees her and is instantly madly in love.
He persists because how can he live without this woman he's known for 2 days?!?
Things are great for maybe another 24 hrs and then one of them (usually our lady friend) decides it just isn't going to work.
Usually within another day's time she decides how silly she has been.
How can she live without this man she's known for a week?!?
End of book.
This one is not part of the Stephanie Plum series; instead, it is a standalone novel about a too-tight lady cello player, Katherine Finn, who meets the lazy bum living in the next house when an object falls out of the sky and crashes through her roof, and he comes over to see what happened.
During the next few days, Katherine finds police searching her house for the thing that fell out of the sky, learns how to throw a football, adopts a kitten, wins at bingo, breaks her leg, and discovers that being in love and being a highly organized person are incompatible states of being.
OK, this is just undeniably cute and cleverI have been an Evanovich fan for a long time.
Her books are side splittingly funny, and contain the occassional explosion.
Hey, who can't love a woman who blows things up?This is a very early work, and shows how Janet got her start.
I won't go over the story line, as it is quite a short book, and I am sure other people have done it.
well, you will understand when you read it.
And don't fail to read it - it will lighten your whole day!
And yet another cute romance from Janet Evanovich. Though I will admit that ditsy Kate got on my nerves after a while but laid-back David was the perfect match for her
I happened to pick this up because someone had kindly (or not) left it in our rental unit and I was bored and decided to see what all of the Janet Evonovich fuss was about (I see lots of ladies in the airport reading these books and laughing hysterically).
Clearly, those ladies were not reading THIS book.
Within the first page the book could have been finished; lady meets hunky next door neighbor as he comes to rescue her from a quirky, yet harmless disaster and they fall in love.Really?
200+ pages of the same repetitive drivel.
ชอบแทบทุกเรืองของ Janet Evanovich ตังแตซีรีส Stephanie Plum กติดตามอานของนักเขียนทานนีตลอด ชอบอารมณขันของผูเขียนทีถายทอดมาสูเนือเรืองและตัวละคร แมวาบางครังจะดูไมคอย make sense แตกตลกฮาแบบไมตองคิดอะไรมาก เรืองนี Janet เขียนกอนซีรีส Plum เปนโรแมนติด-คอเมดีนารัก ๆ อีกเรืองนางเอกเปนนักดนตรีเลนเชลโลทีทำทุกอยางรีบเรงตังแตตืนลืมตายันหลับตา สวนพระเอกกวางวางวัน ๆ อานแตการตูนไมทำงานทำการเพราะดันโชคดีถูกลอตเตอรีรางวัลทีหนึง ทังสองคนดูเหมือนไมนาจะเขากันไดเลยเพราะคนหนึงกซีเรียสอีกคนกชิลเหลือเกินโชคชะตามาพบกั
ชอบแทบทุกเรื่องของ Janet Evanovich ตั้งแต่ซีรีส์ Stephanie Plum ก็ติดตามอ่านของนักเขียนท่านนี้ตลอด ชอบอารมณ์ขันของผู้เขียนที่ถ่ายทอดมาสู่เนื้อเรื่องและตัวละคร แม้ว่าบางครั้งจะดูไม่ค่อย make sense แต่ก็ตลกฮาแบบไม่ต้องคิดอะไรมาก เรื่องนี้ Janet เขียนก่อนซีรีส์ Plum เป็นโรแมนติด-คอเมดี้น่ารัก ๆ อีกเรื่องนางเอกเป็นนักดนตรีเล่นเชลโลที่ทำทุกอย่างรีบเร่งตั้งแต่ตื่นลืมตายันหลับตา ส่วนพระเอกก็ว๊างว่างวัน ๆ อ่านแต่การ์ตูนไม่ทำงานทำการเพราะดันโชคดีถูกล๊อตเตอรี่รางวัลที่หนึ่ง ทั้งสองคนดูเหมือนไม่น่าจะเข้ากันได้เลยเพราะคนหนึ่งก็ซีเรียสอีกคนก็ชิลเหลือเกินโชคชะตามาพบกันเพราะอยู่บ้านใกล้กันและนางเอกดันโชคร้ายบ้านโดนถล่ม พระเอกเลยได้โอกาสชวนเธอให้มาอาศัยอยู่ชั่วคราว เข้าล๊อคละทีนี้ได้แต่มองเวลานางเอกกระหืดกระหอบเข้า/ออกบ้านโดยไม่เคยได้มีจังหวะสนทนาปราศรัยกันสักที
Two books in a row from this author, both main women are curly red heads with green eyes and male leads have dark hair dark eyes, and in both books there are men breaking into houses and the MC gets 'kidnapped' in some way shape or form. This MC was a little annoying in her constant back and forth, but who here hasn't gone overboard overthinking something in their heads? Elsie is definitely the shining star in these stories. Evanovich has a knack for witty and humorous dialogue to keep you entertained.
Super Cute!I listened to the audio read by CJ Critt. A really cute love story between two neighbors, Kate the Cellist, and David, the comic reading, toy loving, lotto winner. The story begins with a crash through Kates roof that lands onto her bed, ruining her new comforter.David falls for her instantly, but she fights her feeling having just recently ended her marriage to a fellow musician, Anitol the oboist.I highly reccomend listening to the audio. CJ Critt makes the book super fun to listen too. She brings the characters to life!
laughed out loud so hard and long at the car repair place, everyone wanted to know what I was readingFor example, here are several quotes I saved (I collect them for rainy days...):"Just because we're engaged doesn't mean you can take liberties.""Too late. I've already taken all your liberties.."And "it's hard to think straight when you're filling me with all your glory."If you like this non-gross but very light-hearted banter, you will like this book. I clearly did. Thanks, JE
This is exactly what you'd expect it to be. Early Evanovich, pre-Plum, where she is really working out some signature aspects of her writing that will make her the best-selling author that she is today. Sometimes you need something predictable, and that's what I wanted when I picked this up. Wacky, silly fluff - enjoyable for a Sunday afternoon at the park while watching the kids play.(I feel the need to add that I'm watching my kids play - not random kids. Thanks)
The main character upset me in this book, because she couldn't see real love when it was right before her eyes. David, the next door neighbor who had fallen in love with her, treated her like a queen, but all she gave him in return was a bad attitude and smart remarks. Finally, she realizes that love doesn't have to look and act a certain way. Thankfully she isn't too late.
Cute love story! One if the few that I have read by Janet Evanovich with dual first-person perspective. I love hearing the thoughts of the hero and heroine. Wouldn't it be great to hear the thoughts of Ranger and Morelli in the Stephanie Plum novels?
***3.5*** This is a really cute read but I would have liked to see more character development with Dave. I would have liked to know about his past.
We see Grandma Mazures prototype in this fun quirky book! I am not sure how I missed this classic Evanovich? I enjoyed this book because it showed her young unpolished writing!
I am a huge Stephanie Plum fan and have not do not like the Full series nearly as well. Not as funny and a little boring. It was OK, but would not recommend.
I like many others feel compelled to read all Janet Evenoviches books. I don't know why I do it.
It was pretty good. But why did she think her basement exploded?
Yes another good one!I thought that I had read all of Janet Evanovich's backlist. I was wrong. And not disappointed by this earlier book.
Boring plot, boring characters, boring book. Not at all like her Stephanie Plum series.
I read Back to the Bedroom by Janet Evanovich, the author of the Stephanie Plum series.
This is one of Janet's earlier books - one of a string of romantic comedies that were re-released by HarperCollins.
The interesting fact about this book is that Elsie Hawkins is introduced and Elsie is the prototype for the future Grandma Mazur in the Stephanie Plum series.
Both Elsie and Grandma Mazur are great characters and basically steal the show throughout the books.
This is a quick and amusing book that is a must-read for fans of Janet Evanovich.
So a friend of my mom's gave this to us to read while we traveled across the country to entertain ourselves.
It was entertaining and cute, like a Hallmark movie, which I absolutely adore for their contrived and awkward plots.
If you're into quick, light on plot, romance novels, Back to the Bedroom is definitely for you.
I've just read better books that have more of a complicated plot outside of the romance that tickled my fancy.
It was very cute for what it was and kept my mom and I entertained going across middle-America.
Laughter should never feel this good.As in all her books, It was an entertaining and delightfull read ,and funny, Her characters are real people with all the quirks we have. I started with her PLUM series and have never found them dull. I finally branched out to her others and have never been disappointed.. My only problem is there too short, kidding, my reading time on her books is usually two days, shorter if I don't go to work.
This was fun and easy read. It was perfect timing for me to read because the last few book I read were dark mysteries and heavy dramas. The only problem I have with this book (and most of the rom-com genre) is how quickly the two main characters fell in love with each other. They go from being neighbors that never speak to each other to being in head over heels in love over like 24 hours. Even a sentence here and there saying that a month had passed and I would have been good.
Discovered I had not read this old Evanovich book. Enjoy all her Stephanie Plum books for a quick, light read. It was written before the time of Plum and in the author's words, this romance novel is 'screwball comedy'. It introduces Elsie Hawkins, who is the prototype for Grandma Mazur in the Plum books as well as Kate Finn who is very much like Stephanie. It's a one-day-read type book. Cute!
This cute story starts out with David Dodd watching his neighbor in her long, black coat and wondering what's underneath it. When a part from a helicopter falls through her roof, he offers his home to her. Through lots of ups and downs; they finally fall in love (although they are totally different in personalities!) A fun story that ends with four black kittens.
Great Fantastic every emotion you could have!Great book first I've read I used to listen to her Plum Serious while driving to and from work there were the best and the person she had so the audio is the Best but reading one of her books instead of listening is just as good . In to my next book. Thank You
This was a fun easy to listen to/ read book. Lots of laugh, a little tension and a whole lot of interesting situations that happen to the couple as they start their relationship. Light hearted and a good read.
Typical story from Janet. Redhead with green eyes has commitment issues and doesn't want a relationship, but immediately falls for a guy she thinks is wrong for her and continues to come up with reasons why they shouldn't be together (all over the course of a few days/weeks).
