https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29641.The_End_of_the_Affair
But a relationship did recently end for me, and that kind of thing is painful, and tough to deal with, as you probably know.) This novel helped me through all that: By channeling the thoughts, emotions, and lessons from the book, I was able to understand myself and my situation better.
Life is so much better when you're in love, and as you turn the pages of this novel, you feel it.The way you put your best self forward every time; the positive inner desire and motivating factor of trying to prove that you're completely worthy, and the very best for that person.
This is quite ironic because he is jealous of Sarah, the married woman he has had an affair with.
Sarah ended this affair with Maurice suddenly one day in 1944.
Maurice is obsessed with Sarah.
If I go any further I will get into spoiler territory.I need to read more classic literature because this book just took my breath away!Highly recommended to fans of classic literature and/or fans of Colin Firth.
To get the full experience listen to the audio version with Mr. Firth's narration!!!- Just a side note that was brought to my attention.
this is the story of a jealous man and a jealous God fighting for the soul of a woman who desperately wants to believe in one of them.oh, and it's a complicated thing, belief.the relationshippy parts of this book are divine.
overanalyzing, obsessing, becoming jealous of every past and possible future lover sarah has had or could have, anticipating the end of the relationship so frequently that he is rarely committed to the moment, loving the idea of sarah without understanding her as a woman until everything is over and unobtainable.

As such, the novel, among other things, becomes a meditation on the probability of God’s existence.The first part of the novel is more profane and describes, as you can guess, the end of an affair between a famous writer, Maurice Bendrix and the wife of a civil servant, Sarah.
I can imagine that if there existed a God who loved, the devil would be driven to destroy even the weakest, the most faulty imitation of that love.
Not even close.Greene writes about hatred, the nature of belief, the nature of God and what it means to believe in Him, the physical and emotional experience of love, the effects that that love can have on our lives....
Greene manages to convey emotions and ways of thinking about life and love that we have all felt, but in such a beautifully done way perhaps we could never quite express what it meant ourselves.
/This/ is a book that gets one thinking about God and love and what it's all about.
I loved it and hated it; I thought it certainly deserved 5 stars for a few pages, but later found myself suffering so much and started loathing it.
How can someone that loves so deeply, as Greene makes us believe Sarah loved Bendrix, later give him up for a God most of the time she doesn’t believe in herself.
Thus Bendrix finelly gets over his anger at Sarah, just to find out she's dying, and turns his anger at God. So Greene/Bendrix tells at the beginning what The End of the Affair is all about:
But actually she doesn’t believe in God. Well, people do strange stuff when they think their true love is dead under a door.
(What she says is “Love doesn’t end just because we don’t see each other.” Well, maybe, but shagging surely does.) (Sample quote from Maurice after Sarah dumps him : I thought : hating Sarah is only loving Sarah and hating myself is only loving myself.Yes, it’s psychobabble 20 years before the term was invented.
My point is that I’ve often had people come onto my reviews and say, “Oh, thanks for letting me know this book sucks.
Don’t not read this book on account of this review.
I’ve already returned this book to the library so I can’t quote it directly, but certain passages, paraphrased, rang very shallow to me, like, “my love for her refused to accept (view spoiler)[her death (hide spoiler)], whereas my hatred for her had full faith in it.” Oh, for fuck’s sake, give me a break.
Really?Anyway, I am super sorry I did not love this book.
The only character I liked was Henry and I got the suspicious feeling I was supposed to dislike him, so it was just an all around mismatch for me.
Update 11/11/2017: On this, my third experience of Graham Greene's masterpiece, I chose the audiobook, narrated by Colin Firth.
and I just want to say to all fellow citizens of our beautiful Planet Earth:I'm sorry.I'm truly, truly sorry.I'm sorry I was flippant with fossil fuels.I'm sorry that I was erroneous with my emissions.I'm sorry that I drove my car longer and slower than necessary.I'm sorry that I took the long way home.It turns out, in listening to this audiobook of The End of the Affair, I found myself unable resist the indomitable combination of Mr. Darcy's (oops, I mean Mr. Firth's) voice and Mr. Greene's words.To be frank, I swerved.I swore.
I swooned.Original review:Graham Greene writes like C.S. Lewis on crack, like Penelope Lively minus the incest.
And, at the same time, he writes like no one.
or even close to being perfect?Characters are meant to act like morons, do things that defy logic and frustrate us and yet earn our empathy in the end simply by virtue of their being human.
or was it about the author's attempt at coming to terms with the tragedy of his affair by seeking a form of oneness with 'God' and something bigger than life itself?
Dear 'God', you do not impress me in the least when characters are citing 'You' as an excuse for their reluctance to behave like logical human beings.
It is a novel about the jealousy and anger one man feels after a love affair has ended.
“I wrote at the start that this was a record of hate, and walking there beside Henry towards the evening glass of beer, I found the one prayer that seemed to serve the winter mood: O God, You've done enough, You've robbed me of enough, I'm too tired and old to learn to love, leave me alone forever." It seemed like Greene didn't know how to end the novel, so he threw in some miraculous works of God. I call bullshit.I understand that in real life, Greene was a Catholic.
Once I started, I couldn’t stop, except to place them in alphabetical order):Adultery, agnostic, anxiety, atheism, belief, bitterness, body, desire, distrust, divorce, dread, envy, exactness, faith, fornication, God, guilt, happiness, hatred, injury, insecurity, integrity, jealousy, love, lust, marriage, ownership, pain, passion, peace, possessiveness, promise, quarrel, quiet, rationalism, saintliness, self-loathing, sex, tortured, touch, trust, truth, unhappiness, vow.What do you think, my darling?
I didn't love this novel as much as I understand I should, based upon views of my most erudite GR friends. Further processing no doubt is in order prior to penning a review.
He is quite well known, and manages to make a living by writing novels, but he reports that he has never become truly great in the eyes of critics because they cannot understand his work properly, saying it was, "the work of a craftman", and without passion.Graham Greene has cleverly drawn a character who is intelligent and skilled, but conveys to us that this man believes he can get what he wants and use people as puppets merely through manipulation and charm.
Sometimes I think that people love endings because they fear the continuity of life.
In the case of this novel, love changes its name into hate, the fine line between the two blurred by its very nature.
If we had not been taught how to interpret the story of the Passion, would we have been able to say from their actions alone whether it was the jealous Judas or the cowardly Peter who loved Christ?” The novel starts with the narrator’s declaration that the book is one of hate.
If so, then hating God is the the greatest sin.
Bendrix is full of barely repressed antipathy, both for Sarah and her pathetic husband, but as an author, is valued by Henry as a listener.Unable or unwilling to consider that Bendrix's friendship with his wife might have developed into a love affair, Henry invites Bendrix to his home while Sarah is out for a walk.
He notices a man with a young boy in tow watching him and upon returning home, Bendrix is called on by this man, whose name is Parkis and has been assigned by the detective agency to report on Sarah's coming and goings.Bendrix recalls being introduced to his beautiful and charming ex-lover by her husband, who he'd met at a party in the summer of 1944 and is curious to study for a future book.
From this point where a novel might normally finish, Greene's character Maurice Bendrix begins not only to recall the course of his affair with Sarah Miles, the wife of a dull neighbor in the civil service, but also to gnaw on that word "end." Fueled by what he calls hate, but which we come to recognize as the obverse of his passion, he obsesses about how it ended, why it ended, and what happens after the end.
Those who know Greene well may not find it hard to guess what Bendrix ultimately discovers, or that a rather sordid book about adultery would be transformed into a grueling challenge to the existence of God. It may in fact be the most explicitly religious of Greene's so-called Catholic novels, and too much for some readers, especially at the end.
This book is more a record of hate, than of love, our central character, Maurice Bendrix tells us.
He loves Sarah and longs for her to call him, but, when she is with him, he immediately wants to start a row with her.
Henry Miles is an important, successful Civil Servant, who cares for Sarah, but the couple have long lost the romantic side of their marriage.
The novel also delves into some huge, and important themes; the destructiveness of jealousy, the strange, reciprocal relationship, that grows between Henry and Bendrix, religion, vows and success.
Η αφηγηματική ικανότητα του Greene είναι εντυπωσιακή. Μια κοινότυπη ερωτική ιστορία απογειώνεται σε ένα εξαιρετικό μυθιστόρημα. Πολλές ομοιότητες με τον Madox Ford στον καλό στρατιώτη, η διαφορά μεταξύ τους όμως είναι παραπάνω από αισθητή.
[In any case, I MUST finish writing this as quickly as possible!]Never has so short a book stirred in me such a cauldron of conflicting emotions.I think Sarah deserves love and passion, but my morals and religion cannot countenance it against her marital vow of commitment.
This brilliant, short novel (the 4th of Greene's so-called Catholic novels) delves into questions of morals, faith in, and relationship with and to, God.
It's a true gem.I'm a Buddhist,so it's somewhat hard for me to understand some parts about Christianity. I've never read a book that tells me how deeply love can affect each other and how difficult to love or to be loved is. In this book,‘LOVE’and‘HATE’are never,ever mundane and cheap words,to be sure.
I just want him like I used to in the old days.
I’m tired and I don’t want anymore pain.
I want ordinary corrupt human love.
Dear God, you know I want to want Your pain, but I don’t want it now.
I know he is afraid of that desert which would be around him if our love were to end, but he can’t realize that I feel exactly the same.
By bringing God into the equation, Greene created a four-way love story that gripped this reader's heart AND soul.You needn't be so scared.
Love doesn't end.
“Man has places in his heart which do not yet exist, and into them enters suffering, in order that they may have existence.” -Leon BloyIn light of their shared experience of a late conversion to Roman Catholicism, it shouldn’t be at all surprising that Greene utilised a quote from brother in spirit Leon Bloy, himself formerly a violent reactionary to the Catholic Church, at the beginning of ‘The End of the Affair’.As it turns out, this quote also serves as a fitting preamble to the tragic, intimately introspective tale of fierce, all-consuming love that is to follow.
QUEL ÂME EST SANS DÉFAUTS?When a wartime disaster upsets the unthinkingly-placid romantic tryst of two lovers - the high-minded Sarah, and the popular writer Bendrix - for some strange and unexplained reason right afterward, Sarah walks out on her beloved forever.And Rimbaud‘s youthful self-revelation of humanity’s hidden sins - that prise de conscience which we call coming of age - is plumbed in dramatically different ways by each one of them.For Bendrix, it’s a fact of life.
Till that day comes when the half-glimpsed rocky shoals of life may sink him forever, God forbid!Sarah, though, has been in love.
The opening lines of this book always travel up and down my spine upon reading them. The narrator declares that the story is one of hate, but you'll likely disagree. It's a story of love, lust and faith and the baptism of desire. One of the things I appreciate about Greene's novels is that metaphysical and religious themes are explored through broken, flawed characters. Readers are frequently repulsed by characters that are too holy - there's no possibility of that reaction to Greene's characters. A fascinating read.
It took a turn that I could not have imagined and then it became about so much more than just an ending of a love affair, it became about love itself, about hate, about jealousy and indifference.
As I watched Bendrix swing between love and hate, I thought of Janus the God with two faces and realized that love and hate are the same emotion turned on its head.
In the end, we control so little of what is truly deep emotion in us.
Their passion burns itself out in an unstoppable fire, holding nothing in reserve, until all that remains are the ashes : she leaves withtout an explanation, he feels betrayed and gives in to irrational crises of jealousy.The story is not linear, it begins in the middle, after the break-up, told first by Bendrix in flashbacks, is then turned on its head by looking at the same events from the point of view of Sarah, through her journal, jumps forward again to Bendrix trying to make ammends for his past jealousy, and ends in a transcendental meditation on divinity.Bendrix I believe is the closest Greene comes to a confessional.
When I picked up The End of the Affair, the book immediately fell open to page 30, as though someone had purposefully bent the paperback to that spot and this line was marked:”What have we all got to expect that we allow ourselves to be so lined with disappointment?”Huh. Okay.
(Not like the belly button ooze that I misled you to think of earlier) I just didn’t expect to have the writing actually provoke the emotions, the futility and the anger and the hopelessness right from the get go.
Actually, it would probably be easier to list the subjects this book doesn't touch upon, so broad is it in scope!Greene's writing is masterful and absolutely gorgeous.
His writing has a way of twisting its way around your mind and pulling you in.I didn't want this book to end so much that, when I finished it, I went back and re-read the last three chapters.
I think it's safe to say it touched me on quite a personal level.
I recommend this to anybody who can read.P.S. The audiobook is read beautifully by the great Colin Firth.
