https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23228.Boy_Meets_Boy
see, here's the deal - i know this is a hugely popular gay teen fiction book - it has been around for a while and everyone loves it (LGM) , but in light of recent current events, it just makes me nervous.this book takes place in a gay utopia, really.
and on the one hand, i'm sure gay teens would love reading it because it is like an escapist fantasy where everyone is tolerant and heterosexuals actually seem to be the minority and the homecoming queen is the same entity as the quarterback.
doesn't a kid read that, and then go to their real high school and get called a fag, and doesn't it make them feel worse?
Or Ten Reasons Why You Should Read Boy Meets BoyI want to live in the world David Levithan has created.
Paul is a great protagonist - he is comfortable in his own skin, he is popular and well-adjusted, he has an adorable family I just could not get enough of, and the story of his and Noah's budding romance is all sparkles and rainbows without being cheesy in the least.
This twist almost ruined the entire book for me (hide spoiler)]David Levithan must be some kind of genius.
“Part of love is letting a person be who they want to be.” 3.5 stars. Although this is a very short novel—not even two-hundred-pages long—it explores different themes worth contemplating, with a huge emphasis on romantic and friendly-inclined relationships. Paul’s high school is like no other. Every student feels free to be who they are or want to be—gay, lesbian, drag queen, transgender—without fear of being targeted by other classmates. Though, to make things clear, this is no utopian novel.
Paul’s high school is like no other.
Every student feels free to be who they are or want to be—gay, lesbian, drag queen, transgender—without fear of being targeted by other classmates.
Paul’s high school is indeed magnificent—his whole town is amazing!—but not absolutely everyone is open-minded.
This is a love story, a coming-of-age story, a slice-of-life revealing how things could be if LGBTQ+ people were better treated and more respected and a collection of truthful moments in the life of a teenage gay boy who may have found the love of his life and lost him forever.
The high school is original and the set of characters heart-warming.
Despite its pretenses & it's overall theme of goodness, friendship, this story is kinda, sorta pedestrian*.
A love triangle not in the least bit bizarre, our character is a prancing, megaconfident & hyperpositive social Pollyanna.
These kids seemingly live in a perpetual children's museum--their hometown caters to them all, and to SUCH a staggering degree as to make you go "ick.""On the seventh day I gave him me." Yeah, Paul.
You and your buddies have a god complex.
The atmosphere is too sweet, often unbelievably.
(Cliche even in popular movies like "Pitch Perfect".) Yeah.
These characters definitely DO NOT EXIST.
The more I read David Levithan, the less impressed I become.
Or maybe it's just that i'm beginning to read his older works, and they're just not that great.
It's not the worst story in the world, and I did like that this book has a gay protagonist, but it was written in 2003 and you can tell it's so horribly outdated and the audiobook is old as well and it was really irritating because there were a lot of voice changes and background music.
Cute love story about love, friendship, coming out, and heart break.
That is exactly what I do after I finish reading Levithan's Boy Meets Boy. I think this is one of the most beautiful and smartest young adult book dealing with gay-themed that I have read.
It's a hopeful world, and in the center of it, is the love story between Paul -- who knows he is gay since he is five years old -- and Noah, the new senior at the high school.
But it also made me think, when Tony, Paul's friend who lives at another town, with a very strict religious parents, tells him that he always feels lost because he is pretending to be someone he is not and even if it hurts him, he knows that his parents actually love him.
Our main character Paul is the most well adjusted gay teen you will ever meet.
However it doesn't mean Paul is perfect - he falls in love, botches his relationship, gets involved with his ex, is concerned about his relationships with his friends, both gay and straight - basically he has all your normal teen problems.
This is a book about how he deals with them.Boy Meets Boy is a wonderful, heartfelt, sweet love story, story about friendships and acceptance, a celebration of individuality and difference.
This book is rightfully regarded as a pioneer gay teen novel.
David Levithan nailed what I'd been looking for for some time; a type of book that should be written many times over for alot of different kids.
Through my book travels, I read alot of teen angst, where the main character is dealing with tragedy in some form, or struggling to find his place...but in Boy meets Boy, the main character in this book, Paul, is someone that I would want to be my friend.
(And so, of course, I will read Levithans next work eagerly) Paul comes from a secure, happy two parent family, he's fifteen and loves his parents.
I was very much like Tony in that sense; "The first time I met you, I honestly couldn't believe that someone like you could exist, or even a town like yours could entirely exist." But as I got to the middle, a little after I read that quote, I realized two things.
Paul is the character we wish we could be, the fortunate one whose life has been easy and to whom the world just seems to open up for.
Sure, there might be people at his school who are homophobic and others who are just plain mean, but they don't matter to Paul because their not his world.
La historia en sí es muy simple, pero no es eso lo que creo yo que se debería de valorar en las novelas de este hombre, sino más bien la evolución de los personajes y el cómo suceden las cosas.Uno de los fallos que le veo a la novela es lo que acabo de comentar, que hay demasiados personajes.
No sé, no lo entiendo, ¡y eso que me encantan como pareja!Así que en definitiva, Boy Meets Boy es una novela entretenida, agradable de leer, con unos personajes principales muy cercanos, grandes frases y un estilo envidiable.
I love the character of Tony.
I love the Story arch for Tony, I won't give that away here.
David Levithan came up with such a beautiful ending for Tony.
I simply love it and I wished we had thought of it as high schoolers back in the 90s.
This book was beautiful and thank you so much David Levithan for writing this and giving it to the world.
We need to know that this world is more than possible, it's here - not everywhere, but it's here.I hope that some day people simply won't care about anything but being a good person and living with love.
The book is unrealistic and I don't like the way David Levithan talked about homosexuality.
Maybe never to be honest.The finale was opened af and that bothered me a lot because they never resolved ANYTHING.Ok, but right now I'm going to talk about Noah, the only one I cared about.
I know he's character was super cheesy and a total LGBT cliché but I couldn't resist to like him a lot and feel the urge to hug him for the rest of the book.The scene I liked the most was when Noah comes over Paul's for the first time and well, things happen.
Why am I left questioning whether this book is helpful, harmful or offensive.....
and yes, I know utopia is a thing and that many people enjoy the escapism of it, and I don't doubt this would be the same...
So please, try again"I guess my problem is that I wish this utopia were real, or that reality was gentler regarding teenage homosexuality at very least, and it upset me so much to think that the "harder situation" in this book was peanuts compared to how hard most gay teen situations are.
Stop by and say hey.This is a lovely little confection of a book about friendship and high school loves.
Also, Paul’s high school and town were basically in their own little bubble where everyone was exceptionally tolerant and accepting of everyone, be they gay, straight, bi, or a cross-dressing quarterback.
I’ll give him a pass only because he’s still a kid and it is cute when you’re a sophomore in high school and everything is so dramatic.
At least not today.This book is about much more than his feelings for Noah and I enjoyed that about it most.
If this book were about Kyle becoming comfortable with his sexuality I think I would've enjoyed it a lot more.
If it were about Tony standing up to his parents I think I would've enjoyed it a lot more.
Hell, if it were still about Noah and Paul, but from Noah's point of view, I think I would've enjoyed it a lot more.
I liked when Paul found out Amber was more than just a "club kid." But overall this book was a mass of cliches and characters who just tried to be far more clever than they actually are.
Siento que David Levithan introdujo a un gran cast de personajes, algunos adorables y otros bastante de relleno, y eso hizo que un libro, que ya es corto en sí mismo, se me hiciera lento y largo.
La historia de amor que nos cuentan aquí es tierna y de las que los personajes saben que hay que atesorar, que son una en un millón, y por eso luchan por hacer que funcione hasta el final.
Me pareció que Levithan quiso crear una pequeña utopía en Boy Meets Boy. Ahora, más allá de este highligh de la ambientación y la relación adorable, el libro no me dio mucho más y pasó sin pena ni gloria por mi vida.
The way Levithan infuses his pages with warmth, love, and hope inspires me to move, create, blast the radio, dance around like a fool, and love with all my heart.
Paul guides us through his town, high school, and misadventures in love and friendship with humor, style, love, and huge heart.
This story presents a seemingly perfect world on the surface, but a place where friends still hurt each other, past pains continue to haunt, parents disappoint, and some kids remain in the closet confused or afraid.
My heart smiled and embraced the love and friendship of this tale, but I also rolled my eyes a few times.
Another enforced read, courtesy of YA Lit. I think this book was maybe a 2.5 on the scale, but I chose to round down since there were a few things that really bugged me about it.
I was pretty aggrevated by the time I reached the end.Secondly, there is the issue of Infinite Darlene and what she represents in the story.
The way the characters' school and community are depicted comes off feeling incredibly contrived; maybe the author meant to write the book as a utopia or a "look how things could be".
Boy Meets Boy is about Paul, an openly gay kid in high school.
However, his friend Tony does have a problem with it.
While I have received mixed feedback from people who have read Boy Meets Boy, I was expecting it to at least be at a three star level.
The main problem I had was that Levithan seemed to be trying too hard to make his story unique and different, and tried to incorporate too many struggling unique characters.
I adored this book so much. I read it in one sitting and I didn't stop reading until 2am this morning! It was an easy-going read with a not-so-brilliant plot but amazing characters. I forgot just how much I loved Levithan's writing.
2. 5 stars rounded tp to 3!The mixed reviews this young adult story has on Goodreads, made me hesitate to pick it up for quite a long while.
Due to a challenge, I finally gave it a try and I can't do more than write another one of these mixed reviews.
His family is very supportive and the world this story is set in seems to be to good to be true.
I actually liked the plot of the story - Paul undecided between two boys; sweet teenage love with a few complications.
However, I didn't like Paul - he seemed distant.
Paul is a gay high school student who's dealing with all the "fun" that high school tends to bring, seeing his ex-boyfriend on a daily basis, enduring all the drama his friends can dredge up in a day, and also falling for the new boy in town.
What really bothered me the most was the split in Paul's character.
On one hand we have Paul, talking to his friend in a secret language and passing notes in the hallway, but then we have the overly "mature" Paul who's saying and thinking things like this:I find my greatest strength in wanting to be strong.
Eu não esperava muito desse livro, mas esperava bem mais do que ele me entregou.
Achei o conceito interessante mas no geral é uma história bem fácil de esquecer.
Não me conectei com nenhum dos personagens, o protagonista não tem muito carisma, os demais personagens masculinos são todos muito parecidos e mesmo sendo um livro curtinho, é uma história bem cansativa.
Tentei manter em mente que esse livro é de 2003, e naquela época existiam pouquissimos YA LGBT sendo publicados, mas nem isso me ajudou a ser mais bonzinho na hora de avaliar esse livro aqui.
O audiobook em particular é um dos mais irritantes que já ouvi.
Parts of this book were brilliant (and what I hoped for more of) and other parts were exactly what I hate about young adult literature.
Here are two sample passages that will demonstrate exactly what I mean.Cringe-worthy:"The gymnasium doors open and the cheerleaders come riding in on their Harleys.
The one sentence that was underlined and stood out the most was this one: "This was before he knew me, before he knew anyone who would take him in and tell him he was all right."I want to tell the person who underlined that part of the book that s/he WILL be alright.
Sometimes after reading a book, I find myself wishing I had read this book in my early teens instead of now.
It's a funny, happy book with a nice, relatable plot which also has a large amount of LGBT characters.
We still need more media like this, but I'm truly glad this book exists for LGBT teens who want to see themselves in a story.The writing style was also really fun and it was very easy to read, I'll definitely check out the author's other books.
DNF at page 125.I tried. I tried so much to finish this book, but I just could not turn another page. I'm not saying it's a bad book, it's really good, but it's just not for me. I can't bring myself to feel anything for these characters or the story, no matter how much I forced myself to read.
Overall a really cute book, if not a little predictable. It was a sweet little read and it made me smile. I'd definitely recommend this one if you are needing a light and bubbly little romance. Despite having instalove and a love triangle, overall this was an enjoyable read. Noah and Paul are so cute together!
But it was the first time, really, we'd ever read something that was just about two boys falling in love, where it wasn't angsty, hostile or doomed to death and failure.So I'm in no position to judge whether this is actually, objectively, any good.
Being both star quarterback and homecoming queen has its conflicts.
The football players are a little more accepting, although there was a spot of trouble last year when Chuck, the second-string quarterback fell in love with her and got depressed when she said he wasn't her type.
Nice
