https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1392428.The_Ring_O_bells_Mystery
I read this one with my 11 year old daughter.She found it very mysterious and exciting and she really liked it.Not the best book ever she told me, but good :)
SUPERB JOURNEYYYY!
it was so good
These are called Barney Mysteries but every title starts with an R.
Barney is a boy who previously was in a circus but now he's traveling Great Britain with his monkey Miranda looking for his father.
Roger & Diana, brother and sister, and their cousin Snubby, are sent to a quiet little village called Ring 'O Bells to recover from the flu.
There they discover that something suspicious is going on in the ancient hall there.
They sleuth to learn what the mystery is.
This book is an exciting read for kids with mystery and danger galore.
I enjoy the R mysteries.
Coming after a truly excellent second book in the series, The Ring O’Bells Mystery is also the work of Enid Blyton at her best.
Of course, The Rilloby Fair Mystery is the funniest Enid Blyton book I have read so far.
This book is not so funny, but in all other aspects it’s near perfect.
The children are sent to a small idyllic village called Ring O’Bells to finish recovering from a nasty bout of flu.
Oh, well…The plot has some small holes, as often happens in these children adventures.
The first book was fine, but the second and third are among Blyton’s best.
My favourite Barney mystery.
Truly adventurous journey... although predictable for an adult, i gave it away considering it’s meant for children...
Jadi kangen, pengen liat suasana jadul :)
Love this old-fashioned mystery.
This was the only book that was missing in my collection of the Barney Mysteries.
Of course, I had to read it once again before I added it to my Enid Blyton shelf and I found myself once again reading about secret passages.The Barney mysteries are about 4 children; Roger, Diana, Snubby (and his dog named Loony) and Barney (with his pet monkey, Miranda, riding on his shoulders).
So at the end of vacations, they are sent to a quite village called Ring O' Bells to recuperate so they can join school as soon as possible.
I picked up The Ring O' Bells Mystery, by Enid Blyton, from a remaindered house for a few bucks, mainly because I love her Mallory Towers series which I read and re-read as a child.
This particular novel is part of another 5-part series, "A Barney Mystery," in which all the titles are similar: "A (Something Starting with the Letter 'R') Mystery," of which The Ring O' Bells Mystery is the third.
It's not long before the children decide to write their circus friend Barney, who is readily able to join them and to look into the mystery that seems to lie at the heart of the old manor....
Barney returns in this awesome book, solving the mystery with Snubby, Diana, Roger, Miranda and two crazy spaniels called Loopy and Loony. Something suspicious is happening in the sleepy village of Ring O'Bells, a place straight out of fairy tales. Barney happens to get a clue, and from there they are off and racing, trying to solve the mystery. I love these books, and I have a pretty hardcover with dust jacket included. Five stars!
One good book that I've ever read! The kids.... when they're having flu.. were sent to this old mansion which was, at that time, a kind of monument for the public. They discover strange happenings in that place, and along with their circus friend, Barney and his naughty monkey, Miranda, they solve the mystery. Another very good book by Enid Blyton!
Oh, I adored this book. The children are hillarious and their innocence and awareness of the world are juxtaposed very well. A lovely book that teaches children how to behave well, how to say please and thank you and how little things like that go a long way.
mirip kisah seru lima sekawan, bedanya di sini hanya 4 orang anak satu anjing dan 1 monyet.nama anjingnya lucu..!!! si Sinting....!!! hehehehe....buku ini aku beli di pasar senin dgn harga 5000 perak.hanya kangen dengan masa2 esde dulu, DEMAM ENID BLYTON...!!!
Members of Riverina Regional Library reserve your copy now
I LOVE THIS BOOK
Snubby and co. solve the iconic mystery. Blyton always is a pleasure.
my #1 favorite of all enid blyton's books
Probably THE book that got me reading discovered on a vacation in Cornwall years and years ago... I just adored those lashings of cream and meal descriptions,,,,
I had a huge crush on Snubby.
One of the best memories of my childhood has been reading and re-reading this book, absolutely love it.
