https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23212667-all-the-missing-girls
Shortly after returning home, another girl from childhood named Annaleise Carter disappears and the town is whipped into a frenzy again while searching for answers in the present and past.
The flow of the story was continuous and I truly did not want to put this down as it was an addicting read.
I honestly am confused as to why this book is marketed as "the next Gone Girl" when the storyline was completely different.
This book is being marketed as Simon and Schuster's top adult debut of the year and I can see why.

I also think it makes a great background for a thriller book!
You get a little bit in the beginning so you know what's going on and then it starts backtracking.
So Nic gets a call from her brother Daniel saying he wants her to come home because their dad is getting worse and he wants to sell the house.
He's spouting out things about the missing girl from 10 years ago and other crazy talk.
Let me just say this book is not what you think it's going to be!
and maybe i'm evaluating this with the boost of second-read clarity, and had i read it only chronologically, i would have dismissed it as just another 'missing girl' book, forgetting it immediately, but i definitely liked it better the second time.
it's a little sloppy, but considering how much of it does work, it's no fun spending time poking holes in it.even without the novelty of unconventional structure, there's enough here to grab my attention: a tale of three small-town mean girls and the boys who circle them, until their charismatic queen bee corrine goes missing after (before?) a night in which many small things chain-react into one huge consequence, supplying the town with limitless gossip.
I ended up liking this a lot more than I expected!If you like mysteries in little town where people have secrets you definitely should give this book a shot! I loved how the story was told backward!
...Just about *3 stars* All  the Missing girls?Because I’m always down for a healthy dose of originality, I was pretty intrigued when I learned this story was told in a reverse format: starting in the present then moving backwards in time, pretty much a single day each chapter. As cool as this sounds in theory, it unfortunately ended up being more of a distraction than anything else. I often found myself backpedalling, convinced I’d somehow missed vital details of the plot. I gave this book 3 st
I gave this book 3 stars because I wanted to know more at every turn of the page; I craved it.
In fact, certain *details* felt as though they were forgotten altogether, leaving me to question their presence entirely.
I felt the story had so much potential to “wow”, but didn't fully commit to its direction.
It still feels slightly “unfinished” and yet the story is in fact complete.All of that said, many readers seemed to have LOVED this, which is understandable; The plot certainly keeps you on your toes, wanting to learn more.
Ever read a story backwards? (Yeah...me either....and it turns out there's a reason for that...) Here’s the thing I’ve learned about leaving—you can’t really go back. Nicolette Farrell returns to her hometown following a ten-year absence to sort through her father's house.All the terrible memories are flooding back. The last time Nicolette was in town, her best friend, Corinne, disappeared.  Missing girls had a way of working their way into someone's head. You couldn't help but see them in every
There were too many key elements that becomes obvious that she knew right away but since we work backwards.i.e. Facts that Nic learned on Day 2 would certainly affect how she reacted on Day 10...but since we (as the audience) read Day 10 first, the author couldn't reveal Day 2's Big Event (otherwise it would spoil the mystery of the book).And while I understand that reasoning for keeping the audience in the dark....This is really info that should be at the forefront of the main character's mind.
One very different from the small town she left behind 10 years earlier when her best friend, Corinne disappeared.
It’s a strange letter from her ailing father and a promise to help her brother that gets her to return home.
Is it just a coincidence the missing girl happens to be the alibi witness for Nic and her friends the night Corinne went missing?
He's always loved Nic and their relationship was pretty intense back in the day.
I love when that happens!You would think that by reading a story told in reverse, you would have some sense of how it’s going to end.
I guess the difference here is I didn’t leave behind a mystery of a missing best friend in a town covered in secrets.A polaroid fading from the edges in, the colors bled out; the outline of a ghost town full of ghosts.Nic Farrell (short for Nicolette) is heading home to small town Cooley Ridge, North Carolina located in the middle of nowhere ten years after Corinne Prescott went missing.
Annaleise was the one who corroborated the group’s alibi the night Corinne went missing.It’s ten years later and Nic’s former group of friends including her older brother Daniel, former boyfriend Tyler, and Corinne’s boyfriend Jackson are all still living in town.
The story is told in a unique way - working backwards in time, starting with the present day, which serves to keep the reader off balance for the entirety of the book.
It's a story that really can only be told in reverse.The story begins with Nicolette (Nic) reluctantly returning to her hometown of Cooley Ridge to help her brother fix up her father's home in order to sell it, they need the money to pay for their father's care since he was placed in an assisted living facility due to dementia.
Nicolette has not been home since she was eighteen and her friend, Corinne Prescott disappeared.
It started to gradually build momentum and I am happy I stuck with it.This was a perfect book to read in October.
I had to back track sometimes and think, "wait, what?"In the beginning we find out that Nic is returning to Cooley Ridge to obtain guardianship of her aging father and to fix up his house in order to sell it.
We also learn that Nic did everything in her power to distance herself from Cooley Ridge and Tyler, a boy she can't stop herself from running to.
Because, In Cooley Ridge, The woods have eyes and monsters and stories..And, this is that story..
Then I read the "Dear Reader" at the start of the book which stated that I would be spellbound and unable to stop reading until I found out what happened to the missing girls.
The way this book is written, makes it hard to read anything else at the same time.
I sometimes like to read two or three books at a time.
Nicolette (Nic) Farrell left home ten years ago after her best friend Corinne went missing.
"Tick-tock, Nic"Now just like Corinne went missing all those years ago, another woman, Annaleise is missing.
What really happened to Corinne all those years ago?
This book to over my life!
Having fled 10 years ago after the disappearance of her best friend Corinne, Nic has done all that she can to put the past behind her and move on.
But Nic has a secret about Corinne, and as we all know, secrets come to the surface.
When Annaleise, a girl who served as Nic’s alibi the night Corinne went missing, also goes missing, Nic’s new life begins to unravel.All the Missing Girls is told in the reverse--starting from day 15 and moving towards day 1.
past to present added an interesting twist and enhanced the unreliability of Nic as a narrator.
Besides a gimmick of telling the main story backwards (which I swear I have seen before in books like "The Secret History") there was nothing appealing about this book.
Deciding to take two months off to help her brother Daniel, Nic is quickly confronted with an old boyfriend (Tyler) who is now dating Annaleise.
Telling the book backwards like she did, Miranda hid things until they were revealed earlier on which doesn't work.
And I had a hard time with even understanding why thing on day 15 would be vague since by then Nic obviously knows what happens and who did what.
No star rating. I gave it 100 pages and nothing interested me enough to continue. The characters so far are boring af and I don't like the writing.
4.5 stars! This was a gripping page turner for me! This book kept my full attention from the very first to last page. The author did a fantastic job of telling the story in reverse (Day 15 to Day 1) - such a unique reading experience! I felt completely drawn into the main character, Nic's, story. She seemed to have a dark, secretive side to her and I wanted to know more about her past which was slowly revealed throughout the novel. I thoroughly enjoyed this book and look forward to reading more books by Megan Miranda!
This is a powerful psychological suspense novel, about the disappearance of two young women and like nothing I have ever read …because the story is told in REVERSE.
Nic is soon lurched into a scandalous drama that revives Corinne’s case and open old wounds and memories.Is the disappearance of these two missing girls-Corinne and Annaleise-linked together somehow?The story then jumps forward 15 days and then is told in reverse.
I had to find out what happened to the girls and why.The entire story is in Nic's first person perspective, and it worked well.
I received a copy of All the Missing Girls by Megan Miranda through NetGalley for an honest review.
My thanks to Simon and Schuster and to Megan Miranda for the opportunity.The ferris wheel.You know the uncertainty of the ride.
And it all begins again.....Megan Miranda presents her mystery/thriller just like that ferris wheel ride.
Their father suffers from dementia and is in an assisted living facility in Cooley Ridge on the edge of the Smoky Mountains.
And crazy are the flashes of the past that you will be privy to.....one day at a time.
I have thought about it constantly since I finished it, and I still don't really know what to think of it.'I have to tell it this way, in pieces.
I have to show you the beautiful things before I get to the ugly.'I found All the Missing girls a difficult read.
Reading this book is kind of like playing Jeopardy - you have the answers before you know what the question is, although the answers you have may not necessarily be the correct ones.
Cooley Ridge is one of those places that will either hold you forever, or let you go.
Nicolette Farrell left a decade ago to start a new life in Philadelphia and has returned for the summer to help her older brother Daniel sell the family home.
Feeling uneasy of what may have triggered the lost memories, Nic is worried he will stir up the countless rumors about the girl who disappeared all those years ago.
Repetitive in some chapters, the story eventually takes hold as the final chapters begin to tell the secrets, lies, and mysteries that took place in the small town of Cooley Ridge.
Yes. This is what a thriller should be.Ten years ago Nicolette Farrell's best friend Corinne disappeared from their North Carolina hometown one night. No one could figure out what happened to Corinne, although the investigation brought a lot of people's secrets to light, and made everyone a suspect—Nic, her then-boyfriend Tyler, her brother, and Corinne's boyfriend, Jackson. It wasn't long before Nic left Cooley Ridge, getting rid of her accent and putting her old lifeand those in it—behind her.
Yes. This is what a thriller should be.Ten years ago Nicolette Farrell's best friend Corinne disappeared from their North Carolina hometown one night.
Ten years after Corinne's disappearance, Nic returns to Cooley Ridge to help tie up some loose ends related to her ailing father, and get her childhood home into saleable condition.
The plot is utterly fascinating even if it wasn't totally surprising to me, but all I wanted to do was keep reading.I mentioned a few reviews ago that it's difficult for me to read mysteries and thrillers because I've become so used to not trusting any characters.
Another book with the word "Girls" in the title...All the Missing Girls is clever and well written, but I never really felt caught up in the story.
While the story and its telling were clever, I never felt particularly invested -- I really didn't find Nic sympathetic so I didn't feel a particularly pressing need to know what happened to the missing girls and to Nic. And I often felt like I spent too much time dwelling on the logic of the reverse chronological order.
So you start out with her going to this small down and arriving to her childhood home and then we go to the future and tell the story backwards.There are a slew of problems with this novel and I will attempt to delineate because I don't like to slap a one star on a book without cause or explaining.
Format: while I appreciate the concept of backwards to forward it doesn't work in this story because the fact is that Day 14 Nic details the events as if she didn't know what happened in Day 1.
So though we're telling the story backwards it's as if Nic didn't know what happened in the past.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ “I have to tell it this way, in pieces. I have to work my way up to it. Work my way back to it. I have to show you the beautiful things before I get to the ugly.” Before I even start let’s get something taken care of real quick like . . . .  “Like the spellbinding psychological suspense in The Girl on the Train. . . “ STFU already about the most boring alcoholic on the train who can’t get over the fact that he’s just not into her. Ser
Before I even start let’s get something taken care of real quick like .
“Like the spellbinding psychological suspense in The Girl on the Train.
Dear Girl on the Train .
While All the Missing Girls wasn’t a high adrenaline thrillride like Memento, the backwards storytelling really worked well here.
P.S. To the eleventy trillion trolls who have told me how I screwed the pooch by reading Elizabeth Is Missing in the wrongest way possible, please note THIS is how you write a mystery featuring a character with dementia.
But, now that she has returned, her past comes to roost in the present, when another young girl disappears, opening up old wounds, revealing stunning secrets, and churning up old memories, lost loves, jealousies, and hidden crimes.
In the meantime, she floats between the past and present, struggling with memory, nostalgia, angst, but most of all she’s afraid of how the past may affect her future, as her father, ex-boyfriend, Tyler, and her brother, are all under suspicion and every step she takes is being watched closely…I loved the stylish presentation the author employed, which really challenged me and certainly staved off any hint of boredom.
ALL THE MISSING GIRLS shakes up the suspense genre with a unique way of telling the story: backward.
At first, I wasn't sure how this set up would work considering it's a mystery, but in the end I have to say that it worked very well and added to my enjoyment of the book.
Nic left Cooley Ridge ten years earlier, just after her best friend Corinne disappeared.
The story is then told from Day 15 (after Nic's arrival in Cooley Ridge) to Day 1.
Sure, it's more of a challenge to read a book this way, but well worth it.
ALL THE STARS.
(Which is interesting since there are some similarities, including the cover.) The originality is something I haven't seen in a long time, the story is told backwards in time.
A tale of missing girls told in such a haunting way...I will be thinking of this one for a long time.It reminded me of the movie Memento which was another genius story told backwards.This is going to make one heck of an awesome movie, mark my words!
Loved it, loved it, favorite book of the year for me.5 big, bright stars.Thank you, Netgalley, for a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.
Reviewed by: Hello Beautiful Book Blog This book will have you searching the pages for the next piece of information to cling to for some clarity. I couldn’t put this down because I had to know what happened to all the missing girls. The small town of Cooley Ridge holds many secrets within the woods, caverns and the river. I love books about people within a close knit town. I love the rumors and lies, and the truths that are only known to a select few. The people in this type town aren’t trapped
I love books about people within a close knit town.
The last two books I’ve read have boasted to be like Girl on the Train.
Just because something is suspenseful doesn’t mean it’s anything like Girl on the Train.
I’m not saying this to be negative towards this book because I really liked it, even more than Girl on the Train.
I loved the way I was trying to piece everything together since it has already happened.
I was trying to remember all the details that didn’t make sense at the beginning of the book.
A gripping beginning, a creepy aura, and a small town filled with secrets.
But they all still lived inside, unchanged, just out of sight.”  All the Missing Girls  is told backwards, from Day 15 back to Day 1 – where sweet, quiet Annalise (the MCs neighbor) goes missing.
But along the way, she learns some chilling secrets about her family, friends, and quiet little town.
that’s it??!!??I’m not sure if many readers will agree with me, but in thrillers, the whole plot builds up to the last chapter that should freak the heck out of us, but in this book, it was like ??!!??!!
I have no time for an in depth review as I'm moving, finding reading alone has been a challenge and I'd rather spend my time there.
:)In a nutshell: This is a solid thriller that kept my attention and eagerly anticipating the ending.
I don't think the backwards order added anything to the enjoyment of this read or to the suspense.The ending wraps up nicely...not sure that these characters deserved what they got, but I was still satisfied.
Overall an enjoyable, thought-inducing thriller that I think any mystery lover connect with.My thanks to NetGalley for the ARC in exchange for an honest review.
