https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12691.Marley_and_Me
This is a mediocre book written by horrible dog owners.Marley sounds like an amusing guy; but I think pets are like kids - you don't get nearly as much joy from people telling you stories about their kids as you do from watching your own.
What really stands out is that the author and his wife are horrible pet owners.
He leaves the dog at the vet's office and packs the family into the van for a Disney vacation.
I had already developed a strong dislike for the author's idea of pet care.
All in one book!Marley & Me is the predictable and somewhat cliche story about a dog and his owner.
If you pick up this book expecting to learn about how to train your dog, put it down and look for something else.
If you pick up this book wanting to read a touching, but very entertaining story about being a dog owner, you've come to the right place.This book basically chronicles the Marley's life with the Grogan's from puppyhood to his last few breaths.Most of the negative reviews I've read about this book criticized the author's poor training methods.
There are dogs dying all over the country because people abandon their animals or neglect to have them spayed/neutered, and these two roll up to a backyard breeder to pick out (and pay for) a puppy?
World's worst dog?
World's worst dog owners.That being said, I don't think these two abused their dog or anything.
If they weren't sure about having a dog and wanted to practice "keeping something alive" they should have fostered.
I am just awfully adamant about animal rights, and buying/selling dogs is pretty much similar to buying/selling people to me.
I have a dog (my first) and like all good, over-excited, enthusiastic first-time parents, when I got it I had every intention of reading every single goddamned book on the topic.
Hollywood could not have done better.The Grogans get pregnant again and their birth story is one of the more interesting ones I have heard (again, I’m a non-breeder so hearing this kind of schmaltzy crap usually bores me to tears.
What do you want me to say, “Congratulations, you successfully carried out a maneuver that baboons accomplish every goddamned day, but with less fanfare, books, websites, and talking?”) But the Grogan’s story is quite remarkable as it offers a unique window into the child birthing methods of America.
To be honest, I couldn't even finish this because it was so stupid."Life and Love with the World's Worst Dog Owner." For crying out loud--get this poor dog some exercise and a trainer!
I hate books and movies like this: The "zany" antics of poorly-trained, poorly-raised, poorly-managed pets and their self-centered, moronic, owners.
I'm always afraid stories like this will encourage other ill-informed, clueless people to adopt dogs they can't handle.I've owned dogs all my life and never had problems like this.
I adopt dogs that I can manage, not large hunting breeds that need more exercise than I have time to give them.
I've never owned a problem dog.
Having said that, Marley's antics were mildly amusing (I guess), but I couldn't see past the fact that the owners were simply moronic.
Example: they know their dog goes bananas and tries to claw its way to perceived safety anytime thunderstorms hit, tearing the house to shreds in the process.
So what do they do to prevent it from ripping apart the house in the event of a thunderstorm in their absence?
And can you guess what happens?
It tries to claw its way through the metal bars and hurts itself in the process.No kidding.
Os Mestres Do Amor IncondicionalSeja na vida real, no cinema ou na literatura, os cães conquistam-nos!Partilham alegrias, consolam tristezas - são seres adoráveis e uma fonte inesgotável de amor incondicional.São peritos e mestres nessa arte e Marley não é excepção.Por estranho que pareça, o convívio continuado com o cão faz de nós, humanos mais humanos!...
The Grogans may not have been the best dog trainers in the world, and they may have made a common mistake of buying their dog from a backyard breeder, but what they did right was they loved their dog, and stayed devoted to him through his whole life, from puppyhood to old age.
They stuck with Marley, they tried to learn, they tried obedience classes, they worked with their vet to help control Marley's issues, and they actually considered their dog a part of their family, through good and through bad.
Marley was one lucky dog, to have been owned by a family who loved him for who he was, and loved him for his whole life.
I loved trips to Healdsburg memorial Beach with Duff and Dad. Jeff and Michelle would come too and we would play for hours at the river, Duff swimming, fetching sticks, and grabbing rocks in the water and struggling to bring them back to Dad. It was one of the times when my Dad was truly happy.
If it wasn't for Duff, I don't know if we ever would have spent much time together as a family.
I need a house, a stable job to care for the dog, and time, as well as patience.
I absolutely love and cherish this book and will probably reread it just to live it all over again.
What a beautiful book. I read this too soon after losing my 10 year old golden Labrador to cancer, so I found it made me extremely emotional. It's very well written and some of the antics of Marley are so typical of a young Labrador! Hilarious, heartbreaking and beautiful, I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book.
I loved this book.
My now husband bought it for me last year for my birthday.
When we had started dating, we found and loved a little mutt named Stella.
We felt foolish for being so upset over a dog.
This book made us both feel so good becuase it reminded us why we were so devistated.
It was not only because Stella was a PERFECT dog.
Reading this book was wonderful.
When a story like this begins...you know the dog will die.
If you love animals...or you are trying to understand someone who does.....READ THIS BOOK!
He routinely ate things like parts of their stereo equipment and once, a gold necklace that was a gift from author John Grogen to his wife, Jenny.
Grogen then reports in hilarious detail being on poop patrol in his attempt to rescue the expensive necklace from Marley’s prodigious defecation offerings to their backyard.Everything about the book is funny or touching.
They also like to topple books from shelves and sit on your keyboard while you’re on deadline for work), you’ll identify with the funny stories of how much work animal companions can be, and how much we miss them when they’re gone.
So, after I had fallen in love with Marley the dog, I decided to read about his death first, and then read about the rest of his life, leaving him at a point where he is still young and healthy and I could imagine a happy end for him.Other than that, this book is entertaining, but it's a particular kind of entertainment only dog owners can fully appreciate.
Give him your heart and he will give you his."I never 'dog-ear' pages in the books I read.
I like my books to remain looking as new as possible and I enjoy perfectly pressed paper with no hint of wear.
Last night as I finished the last few pages of the book, "Marley & Me" I dog-eared two pages; very unlike me.
I don't have to see the movie to know that I already like the book more.
A movie can't capture the thoughts of Marley's family like the book can.
This book was great and gave me a real insight on what it would be like to have a dog.
Most reviews of the book praise it but some criticize it because they say John and Jenny were terrible dog owners because they didn't treat Marley like a child.
This is silly because Marley didn't need to be treated like a child and although he was still a bit crazy until the end, he changed a lot over the book.
I think a reader who would enjoy this book is someone who likes books that are about dogs and ones that allow you to imagine scenes.
I think I scared my mum while I read this because she threatened to lock me up in a mental hospital if I don't stop flailing around with this book and making weird cooing sounds.
This is how much  Marley the Dog  affected me.I've read a few memoirs back then and they were depressing and gritty as fuck.
So why not try to enjoy every precious moments in life?I never for once owned a dog or a pet for that matter.
I have never known that bond but when I read this book, I felt that connection between man and dog.
This guy has a pretty bad case of Precious Snowflake Syndrome.
He's the kind of guy who appears to have a pretty average life with a pretty average wife and kids.
Lives in an average house.
Makes an average wage.
His dog (and everyone else in his life) is a precious snowflake more beautiful and unique than anything else in the universe.His dog's digestive tract cleans gold better than any chemical!
His dog is just crazier than any dog that ever lived in the entire history of dogs!
El mejor amigo del hombre tuvo una muy buena adaptación en el 2008, y con la lectura (por fin) del libro que inspiró la película completamos este círculo que se cierra en mi vida: ocho años queriendo leerlo y por fin, después de la muerte de dos de mis compañeros de vida, pude hacerlo. Todo llega cuando tiene que llegar, y agradezco seguir creciendo con lecturas como esta y con mis amigos de cuatro patas.
Okay, I read two dog books in a row because my book club decided to do this for our February meeting.
That said this book made me laugh so hard I cried and then, of course, I cried at the end as one must with all dog books if one loves dogs.
Like Marley,none of them could tolerate fire crackers,thunderstorms,or being kept in a kennel.
Maybe I am unable to learn from previous experience or just a bad dog owner/trainer.
Like Marley these qualities made me overlook their inability to really follow the rules and their selective hearing whenever I gave them commands.
“A dog has no use for fancy cars or big homes or designer clothes. Status symbol means nothing to him. A waterlogged stick will do just fine. A dog judges others not by their color or creed or class but by who they are inside. A dog doesn't care if you are rich or poor, educated or illiterate, clever or dull. Give him your heart and he will give you his. Just like Marley, my Golden-Retriever, Alfey is a classic example of the above mentioned fact. All dogs are! One just needs to see.A Great pie
Marley was a chewer of couches, a slasher of screens, a slinger of drool, a tipper of trash cans.The book revolves around how in his early years of marriage, John and Jenny(John's wife) bought a lab-pup for a pet dog and how very soon he became the inevitable integral part of their lives.
He lives a dog's not-so-long-life of 13 years while he loves the Grogan family unconditionally.
They live learn and love Marley through these years until time comes for him to depart from the world.
Every tiny memory of his pools my eyes with tears.This is how Grogan has put it through for himself, for me and for those few thousand people who have lost their pet dogs.
Marley sounds like he was a complete love.And that is why it was so tough to read the end.
Yes, you know how it ends.
They bring so much joy during their lifetime, but they are dependent on their owners, especially as they age.
Still, it brings back the whole sadness of saying good bye to a loyal and totally trusting companion.
It's so hard to know that they are naive and have that trust in you even when you are taking them to the vet for the last time.
At first glance, John Grogan’s Marley and Me appears to be a “feel good” novel for the dog loving population.
Even though the Grogan’s keep Marley throughout his life, the fact that he is less than cherished is ever present, especially on behalf of Mrs. Grogan as she expels him from the house and wants him gone shortly after the birth of one of their children exclaiming that John “Get rid of him.”Overall, Marley and Me remains an example, sadly, of what many pet owners are today – uninformed and uneducated in the ways of dogs.
Marley is a lovable lab and the structural element around which Grogan writes his own coming of age story.
Grogan and wife are reporters in south Florida, and take on the responsibility of a pooch as a way for his wife to see if she is up to the challenge of handling a baby.
Eventually the family moves to Pennsylvania as Grogan takes over publishing duties for the Rodale Press.
Grogan tacks on his take on what Marley taught his human masters.
But the joy here is the pure, untrammeled love of Marley for life and his loyalty to his family.
i love this book so much because it makes think of my dog snowball that passed away in 2014 . my dog was a great dog but had a lot of energy. he was 8 years old when he passed away in a house fire .
ADORABLE AFMarley and Me: Life and Love With the World's Worst Dog was again freaking adorable.
For me, I'd rather have a dog than a plant because of the whole unconditional love thing..
but her logic was just funny to me.Another thing, dogs definitely help you prepare for kids - sort of.
Marley was all kinds of trouble from the start and it definitely made me smile.
Now I loved reading about their time with this dog.
In the end, I would definitely re-read this book and re-watch the movie again too.
I fell in love with John, Jenny, Marley, and the entire family.
I was fully prepared to give this book 3 stars before I started reading it.
(based on seeing the movie) but the book really touched my heart.
(listening on CD might not be a good idea because driving home from work with your eyes full of tears makes staying in the lines hard)Because each book we read is affected by the experiences in our lives that we bring to the reading, I'm not sure if someone who has never loved something furry would love this book.
It would be interesting to see.(Karen, there's a great part about their dog flunking out of obedience school.)FYI There is some adult talk in this book because she has a hard time getting pregnant and then miscarries etc.
I did enjoy this book which I read quite quickly. There were lots of fun bits but I have to admit I did shed a few tears at the end of the book. I love dogs but my goodness what would it be like to have a dog like Marley? I guess you would have to have a healthy bank balance among other things,
This book should have been titled "World's Worst Dog Owners".
At one point, the callous female owner doesn't want him anymore.
It just makes me think of all those unwanted dogs left to fend for themselves because owners don't want to deal with them anymore.
It gets worse, the family goes on vacation when he's near dying so they can go on vacation.Love their priorties!
What the.....?I will NEVER recommend this book to anyone.The only reason Marley was considered such a "bad" dog was that he was truely neglected ALL the time.
Quick and adorable reading.
I loved the way John Grogan pictured every moment of Marley in his life and the lives of his family: with a lot of emotion and the right amount of snark.
(I actually read this book 4 times).I was reading the other reviews of this book (i should never do this) and i'm seriously baffled.
Have you guys really read the book?
John was an amazing owner.
He tried to get Marley a trainer,but the dog only managed to learn at his own pace,and only with John.
Seriously guys,don't read a book looking to hate it.
I liked this book a lot, because Marley is so funny and I couldn't even believe that a dog could act like that. It was really sad at the end though, but I which I knew what happened at the end. It kinda left at a cliff hanger. It was a really good book through and I think anybody who reads it will love it. This si what I though about Marley and Me.
