https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7114761-heart-of-the-matter
The formula for HOTM: Weak women characters + Cheating scandal + Blaming parents for the way they are + Forgiveness on the woman's part = $UCE$$.
I could not see Tessa and Nick forgiving each other.
Now, I "liked" (meaning she was only okay) Tessa, but I hated how weak she was.
It does take two to ruin a marriage, but how is Tessa supposed to confront loser Nick?
Nick was a loser, "falling" in love with loser Valerie and leaving her.
You don't love Tessa or Valerie.
You chose to ruin your life for the thrill of the chase and stupid Tessa decided to take him back.
In alternating, pitch-perfect points of view, Emily Giffin creates a moving, luminous story of good people caught in untenable circumstances.
That is the only reason that I gave this book a four, instead of a five.I felt connected to the characters.
When I am reading a book, it is essential that I feel not only connected to the characters, but that the protagonists are relatable as well.
I felt like I was immersed in the lives of Tessa, Nick, and Valerie.
a marker of a good book, to feel connected to the characters.In addition, I was impressed by the writing.
It is told in alternating chapters and voices; Tessa, the wife, tells her story in first-person and Valerie's, the other woman's, is told in third-person limited.
Tessa realizes this when she reminds Nick that it took two people to cheat:"As I say the words, though, I am struck by how much they apply to us, as well.
I thought that he really fell in love with Charlie, Valerie's son and his patient, and transferred some of that affection to Valerie (like in Jerry Maguire, when Renee Zellweger's character says "I've got this great guy.
What I loved about it, and continue to love about Giffin's books, is that she makes me feel.
It follows a similar plot line to Emily Giffin's other book, "Love The One You're With", where the main character is lead astray, but in the end picks their significant other.
The doctor, lawyer, stay at home mother and snobby friends characters have already been established in her other books, while the cheating storyline has already been covered in "Love The One You're With." I was left extremely dissatisfied with the ending and I did not like how Giffin reuses the element that made "Something Borrowed" so special and manipulated it in such a terrible, trite way.
I love the author's style of writing and would have given this book 5 stars if it had an alternate ending option.*Spoilers* YOU'VE BEEN WARNED!Maybe it's just me, but I was unsatisfied with the way the story ended.
He wasn't happy in his marriage, he fell in love with someone else, the wife wasn't happy in general and in the real world they have reconciled only to end up divorced 2 years down the line anyway.Then there was something that he told his wife on the last few pages that annoyed me, something along the lines of..." Valerie never loved me, love is what we have..building a life and family together"....
When I began reading this book, actually my first Giffin novel, I had not a clue what it was about.
With its purple, heart-ribboned cover, I was sure I would soon be reading a lighthearted, uplifting story of family, love, and endings with a smile.Instead, I will say that the journey of reading this novel slowly filled me with sadness and frustration.
I just didn't like the way I felt after reading it.Maybe the quote that seared my "heart" the most just 28 pages into the book can explain why: "It is a feeling that has never wavered.
for a couple of reasons.Spoiler Alert:First, I had a hard time accepting that Nick would have an affair without first discussing any marital problems he was having with his wife.
I feel like even after, when he fessed up and asked for forgiveness, he still never really gave a valid reason - "you changed" doesn't really count.While I completely feel for Tess throughout the story, and feel like she was completely and unfairly wronged - at times I had a difficult time sympathizing with her.
I don't think single-motherhood and loneliness are excuses for 1) starting a relationship with a married man and 2) so selfishly putting your wants above the needs of your child.
(just like you dear reader)-- got pregnant by a creepy serial lover whose artwork gains national acclaim-- no problem, singlehandedly bears & nurses her infant while saving enough as a paralegal to do Harvard Law (excuse me while I laugh)-- lands a litigation position so lucrative she's able to take indefinite leave while having her child healed by the best physicians in the world (now I'm grabbing my sides).
The plotting looks to be good potboiler-mystery stuff.
First, I have to disclose that this is not my preferred genre and the only reason I read "Heart of the Matter" was because it was chosen by my book club.
I couldn't put the book down but I absolutely hated it.
Giffin sure writes well and she knows how to pull you into a story but I just found the main characters incredibly frustrating.
Although they all had their good characteristics, Giffin surely highlighted their shortcomings.
You know what the end result is but just haven't seen the elements that lead up to it--you can't peel yourself away along the way yet you don't want to see the disaster.
Okay holy s*** this was Emily's worrrrrrst work everrrrr.
I feel like if she would have fought harder he would have gone and slept with her again in a heart beat.
You are amazing""I'm thinking I'm crazy about you""don't 'okay' me Val, don't let me off the hook that easy""I love the way you are""I love you, Val. It's the truth.
BUT when he is on his little walk with Val just moments earlier he seems to feel no regret it at ALLL.
Feel free to agree with me or challenge my thougts, I want feedback, I'd love to discuss this.
I would not want my husband to stay with me out of obligation/guilt or for any reason other than he LOVED me and only me (maybe I ask for too much!) No matter who you were rooting for him to end up with the ending was gag worthy!
Nick tries to work things out with Tessa, but they can't and he goes back to Valerie or Tessa and Nick stay together and Nick becomes a habitual cheater ( they guy acted like his wife was Satan no way they're going to live happily ever after.) Speaking of Satan, Tessa's friends were over the top obnoxious.
Spoilers in review!Sooooo, we're supposed to believe that this renowned surgical attending at Mass Gen (one of top hospitals in the nation) had all this free time to sit around and chat it up and get “friendly” with a patient’s mother and nooooooooobody noticed!
If you’re so unhappy being a stay at home mom then find a hobby, or work part time, stop moaning!!Nick, was a tool and a coward, a coward for cheating on his wife and a coward for staying with her!
The story of Something Borrowed was so different in this way because even though I usually abhor cheating and hate reading about it, I loved that book.
There were so many things not to love about this book besides the subject: Tessa's friends were annoying, Nick was annoying and classically "male" and not in a good way, the mothers were irritating, and mostly I just felt bad for everyone.
I feel bad for writing a poor review for an author whom I adore, but I just didn't love this book.
http://bookablesbooks.blogspot.com/20...Full Review!!!
Unfortunately they weren't.My first problem with the book is the authors use of foreshadowing.
She practically beats you over the head with her need for you to know that the husband in this story is going to be cheating on his wife.
It's so blatant that about 30 pages into the book you have already determined exactly how this book is going to play out.The other problem I have is that just about every character in this book is unlikeable.
''All wounds heal.''That is something you can read near the end of the book.
Without trying to spoil the whole story, I think the main goal of the story is to learn to try and forgive loved ones.
Through the story of two women, who are completely different, Valerie and Tessa, I learned that, though it doesn't always end up the way we want it, we can still find it in our heart to forgive.
I loved the idea of two different point of views 'cause all thanks to Emily Giffin, I got to live two different lives.
Love.
Loved, loved, loved this book! Had a hard time even putting it down. I loved the fact that the characters weren't perfect, their relationship wasn't perfect. I liked that Giffin didn't write the token "happy ending". This wasn't a light read like some of her other stories. I highly, highly recommend this book to readers that enjoy family & relationship-based dramas. One of my favorites of the year.
I love getting this glimpse into what had happened in their lives after Giffin told their story in an earlier book.
This is not the first time Giffin has done this, and it makes me feel, as a reader, that I'm getting snippets of an epilogue, or catching up with old friends.I found myself making a few notes as I read this book.
How often is it that a book classified as "chick lit" helps you do something like that, have your own little epiphany?I know I've already mentioned how well drawn and relatable Giffin's characters are.
It was easy to guess what was going to happen all the way through the book, only we didn't know who Nick would end up with until near the end.
Charlie was by far my favorite character.I think this could be a theraputic read for someone who has caught their spouse in an affair, as it shows the thoughts of both women involved and tries to protray the cheating husband as a devoted husband accidentally smitten by a single mother.It was average on my scale, largely due to being too predictable.
The LAST Emily Giffin novel I really, really loved. "Heart of the Matter" is probably her best novel. Too bad it all went downhill from there.
Dia sudah merasakan kehambaran dalam hubungannya dengan Nick dan walaupun Tessa mengusahakan agar pernikahannya bisa bergairah kembali, ketidaktegasannya dan ketakutannya akan perubahan dalam rumahtangganya bikin saya kesal.
Nick Russo sangat berperan penting dalam rusaknya rumahtangganya, dan tentu tidak lupa si nenek sihir penggoda Valerie.Di buku ini saya diperlihatkan bagaimana proses terjadinya sebuah perselingkuhan.
Mulai dari rasa simpati akan kemalangan yang diderita seseorang sampai timbulnya getar-getar perasaan lain yang sebenarnya tidak terlarang bagi orang-orang yang belum memiliki komitmen apalagi pernikahan.Walaupun sangat sangat tidak menyukai Valerie, tokoh yang paling saya benci dibuku ini adalah Nick.
EMILY GIFFIN "TAI, KAS SVARBIAISIA"Pastaruoju metu vieną po kitos skaičiau rimtesnes, sudėtigesnes knygas, ir be galo pasiilgau kažko moteriško ir paprasto.
Paprastas meilės romanas, šeimos drama, jausmų audros - būtent tai ko man reikėjo."Tai, kas svarbiausia" pasakoja dviejų šeimų istorijas.
Tarp jo ir vienišos mamos užsimezga pavojinga draugystė pranašaujanti nelaimę, bei grasinanti suteikti daug skausmo aplinkiniams.Nuo pradžių knyga labai įtraukė.
Ir nuo tada knyga mane pradėjo šiek tiek erzinti.
Bet tai tik mano nuomonė, tiesiog labai nemėgstu tokių žmonių.
Mano galva, ši knyga labai patiktų mėgstantiems paprastus romanus, be didesnių staigmenų.
I read the book backwards because I couldn't help myself and it was hard to swallow the inevitable between Valerie and Nick.
Then when he ends things with Valerie...he tells her he loves her and always will and he just wants to make love to her now...and then the same day goes and confesses to Tessa getting down on his knee and crying???
There was a big disconnect in the end on where Nick went from loving Valerie and begging his wife to come back.
Also in the end with Valerie realizing that what they had wasn't real?
(Review was originally posted on Alexa Loves Books)Heart of the Matter is written in Emily Giffin's style - a strong female perspective, matter of fact and brutally honest.
I think it was illuminating to read about the affair from both sides, and allowed me to better understand both women as well.There are other characters that I loved - Charlie, Jason, Dex, Rachel and Cate - and I like how Giffin uses them to propel the story forward in many instances.
However, I found myself utterly frustrated and annoyed at his actions.Giffin's book managed to make me think about serious issues in relationships, not just cheating.
I devoured this book, gave me anxiety attacks… it was so gripping I couldn’t put it down. I suggest you have a nice spam of time before starting this book, like an eight hours flight or something, because you will not want to put it down.One more thing, I despised Nick so much that if I’ll ever meet him I’ll steal Charlotte’s opening line for Mr. Big in Sex and The City, “I curse the day you were born.”
3.5 stars, and I had a hard time thinking about my rating!The story was amazing, I won't lie, I literally couldn't put the book down, and read it slowly, analizing each situation and how would I react.
I am in no way justifying any of her actions, but I could understand her feelings and felt they were true.
Again, I do not justify or blame anyone, but I didn't like her nor her friends at all.
The rest of the characters, even Tessa's horrible friends, sounded a little cliche, but I adored even this, because it made them feel more real!
Both Tess and Nick seemed unable to see the forest for the trees when contemplating where to go from there...instead of actually not wanting to live a life that is a complete and total lie after broken trust and broken wedding vows, you are lead to believe they both seemed to mutually decide that they weren't able to give up the "life" they built together.
The storyline was questionable, there were many things that left the reader hanging without closure and the idea of infidelity and falling in love with someone else, but still not wanting to "give up the life" you have just because of an expensive house, car, friends, and so on.
Elsewhere, single mother Valerie Anderson must contend with her son's severe burns after an accident at the home of one of Tessa's friends.
Tessa is obsessed with what the other mothers (none of whom she particularly likes) think of her, Nick is a pompous philanderer with a serious ethics deficiency, and Valerie is something of a limp dishrag.
And deciding to stay at home, contrary to the depictions in this book, does not necessarily mean becoming a pod person like April, Romy, Tessa, et al.
Like Tessa, Rachel left her career to stay at home with her children.
Although I did not agree with the overall story-line and the way it ended, I found myself reading this book without taking breaks, actually reading it in less than a day.
I liked the narrative between the two characters, Tessa and Valerie.
I rated this a 5 over a 3 because I literally could not stop reading it, even though I felt like somewhere in there, Tessa should have been more "Here me roar," as a woman.
Valerie then ends up forgiving Romy, which I don't feel like explaining, but is a vital part of this plot line.

