https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1134122.The_Power_of_Positive_Thinking
This is a book that I am constantly reading on and off.
I found it on a trip in Sante Fe, New Mexico.
It turned up right in front of me while I was shopping at a local book store.
You know how a book comes into your life just at the right time, well this is the book for me.
It has helped change my life at a point when I needed it the most, I should say a very negative time in my life.
It is one of those books that you highlight and go back to reread parts of it again.
Altough i am a muslim but i found this book equally revealing, all of the methods and techniques i read in this book are easily applicable to any one regard less of their religion and faith.
the thought which Mr Norman discussed in this book is already known to every muslim, but are long lost and forgotten, But thanks to him that i am now again connected to my roots and living at peace.
I recommend reading this book with an open mind so that your cast, culture and religion will not interfear in your intellectual growth and understanding of the laws of universe.
If someone is turned off by "The Secret," believing it to be "Oprahesque," New Age thinking, than read "The Power of Positive Thinking." There aren't many who are more mainstream than he, who comes from a traditional, American religious background.
At the same time, if someone is turned off by a traditional, religious point of view, read "The Secret" (which instead of "God" uses the term "The Universe," when referencing a Higher Power, therefore allowing for many faiths and beliefs).
However, if both books are read, I believe a person not only reinforces the basic principles in their mind but also gains additional techniques to achieve their goals.Again, the caveat is, you have to believe for it to work.
This book is nothing more than propaganda and shameless marketing for the author's "church" (i.e., business).
I got so sick of seeing the FULL ADDRESS of his "church"'s headquarters that I refused to finish it and put it in the recycle bin!
I know this book is considered a "classic" and is beloved by many people, so I guess I must not be seeing something that a lot do, or I'm just too cynical, but if you read (or re-read) the book, pay attention to the references to the author's "church" and tell me they don't read like an advertisement for a business!
No citations.
When an author says: "here is a story when a woman/man who had XYZ difficulty, used these principles had remarkable results", it turns me off.
Any random person can come up with such stories.
No citations / no names.
The mantra given are fine and ok style too, but I felt that the emphasis on Christianity was unnecessary.
Not that it offended me, I don't care, but it implies unnecessary that other religions don't have the same / good teachings.
:( There are better ways to write self-help books, the author should have asked Dale Carnegie...
A few people told me that that this was among the great self-improvement books.
Instead, the author focuses on prayer and involving God in every aspect of your life; and not just in one or two chapters, but all of them.I'm a Christian, so I wasn't opposed to the religious content; it just wasn't what I thought I'd find.
Rather than showing the Christian faith as primarily focused on the spiritual life, Peale described how to use prayer and your relationship with God to succeed materially.Peale outlines his main formula near the beginning:1.
Prior to reading this, I didn't know that is was a Christianity based self-help book. The information in this book has been rehashed in The Secret and many other self-help books. Why? Because it works. I don't know when cognitive behavior therapy (CBT) was introduced, but this books has lots of techniques from that as well, and CBT has been proven to help eliminate anxiety and depression. In summary, one has to renew our thoughts and speech and this will in turn change our thinking process, which in turn will eliminate worry and inner strife.
I decided to re-read it as I am at a different stage in life, will soon be the big 60 and don't want to turn into a grumpy old woman!
Well, I did enjoy the book and it has reminded me that looking at life positively (every cloud has a silver lining) gives you happiness and confidence.
Just one sentence in the book makes a difference "every time you have a negative thought, replace it with a positive one".
As I will always want my friends and family to enjoy my company, rather than come and see me out of duty, I aim to grow old gracefully and in a good mood :-)
I found this book pretty useless. I understand the power of faith in God, but if you're going to write a whole book you need to have something other than that mantra repeated on every page. There are no practical tips and its written as if he's a grade school teacher talking to his students. Read Pema Chodron instead, or even Martin Seligman's books about optimism and happiness.
كتاب جميل جدا ، عبارة عن حديث القدسي ( انا عند الظن عبدي بي فليظن بي ماشاء) ....
وفي المسيحية (بحسب ايمانكما ليكن لكما ) بمعني انك اذا امنت بهذا الشئ الذي تتمناه فأنت تحقق هذا ، و ما حثني علي قراءته مضمون افكار ايجابية ، كتاب بسيط ولكن الي حابب يقراءة افضل ان يكون لديه بعض معلومات عن ايجابية كأسلوب الحياة و كيفية عمل العقل.
عجبني كثيرا حين عرفت بعض معلومات عن افكار مسيحية يتبين لك من خلال بعض اقتباس من كتاب المقدس في المسيحية ( العهد الجديد) ان احنا كلنا ممكن ان نتقرب من الله بغض النظر عن ديانتنا ....
Yeah...definitely don't go into this expecting Dale Carnegie levels of self-help and motivation. This whole book read like religious propaganda. DNF'd after the first chapter.
The Power of Positive Thinking was my first book for 2014 and I am glad I chose to start the year surfing on positive sails.
But yes, I’ll surely keep going back to it each time I feel that I need a dose of positivity.”
The Power of Positive thinking nails in your conscience the idea of sailing the boat of life while rowing with an oar of positivity.
Having said that, it is almost undeniable that through most part, the book takes a religious course and that can get the not-so-religious-crowd of readers a little put off.
Peale’s book is based on the title as it encourages the reader to try his method of positive thinking to live a richer and more rewarding life.
The essence of each chapter is Peale presenting his principles, and then he gives stories as examples of people who have put his principles into practice with success.
But in writing his book, Peale found many people burdened by psychological problems of fear, self doubt, and other obstacles preventing them from succeeding.
Given all of this, Peale’s book is a classic and a good read and can help people find ways of dealing with problems and become whole and healthy.
Even then, I did not find the ideas in this book the least bit persuasive or helpful.One of Peale's friends is quoted as saying "Every day when I wake up I realise I have a choice.
If I knew someone like that, I would punch him until he realised that happiness is not something that can be "chosen." We would not need psychologists, psychiatrists or people willing to listen and help each other if happiness was that simple.
NVP tries to strengthen this platitude with another from former US President Lincoln: "People are just about as happy as they make up their minds to be." What nonsense.
He told that patient: "the bible says; What things soever ye desire, when ye pray, believe that ye receive them, and ye shall have them.” That man went on to become the top salesman at his company!Listening to this audio book, read by the author, was a lot like having your great-grandfather read the passage above.
He stated it better: “We build up the feeling of insecurity or security by how we think.
If in our thoughts we constantly fix attention upon sinister expectations of dire events that might happen, the result will be constantly to feel insecure.
Better yet, listen to it read by the author.
Every time I read this book, I tell myself I should read it every year.
And then I forget for seven or eight years before stumbling across it again.
But it always seems to appear in my life when I need it, so I guess that's okay.Norman Vincent Peale gives chapter after chapter of tangible ways to feel happier.
Coming from an unapologetically Christian point of view, Peale talks about improving self-image (repeat ten times a day, "I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me."), finding peace, stopping the worry cycle, defusing anger, using prayer to solve problems, having constant energy, etc.Much more helpful to me than the modern Secret-type self-help books.
After the first hundred pages, I was fairly confident that I understood the message of the book: think positive, quit stressing out, put your fears in God’s hands, and you’ll be just fine.In Chapter 4, Peale provides “a three-point program” for prayers, which is really nothing more than basic psychology.
Peale posits the basics of psychology here, arguing that a realizable wish and a vivid picture in your mind are all you need.
Peale’s simple guide to a better life is really nothing more than basic ideas on the human mind: confidence and feeling good stem from blocking out negative thoughts and visualizing happier times.
Then to add to those feelings of inferiority, he was a preacher’s son and believed that he was expected to be perfect.
Norman was urged to join the others in their activities, but the thought of speaking in public scared him to death.Eventually though, with the urging of his father, reading the Bible and interacting with other family members he began to shed those feelings of inferiority.
You must believe in yourself because, ‘without a humble and reasonable confidence in your own powers you cannot be successful or happy.’ Basil King once said, “Be bold, and mighty forces will come to your aid.” Emerson declared a tremendous truth.

I dont usually go for books in the self help genre but then I like to read books that friends recommend. Someone recommended this to me but I had a hard time getting past theology that the author takes as a given from his readers.
Learn to re-program your mind into thinking positive at all times, in any situation!! Great Read (or listen)!!
This is my favorite book. It has changed my life and my thinking. Even though it was written in the 1950's, the same principles apply today. Please read this if you haven't already!
It's said that Norman is the father of positive thinking.
I don't know if it's true but this book is really helpful.
The book utilizes many quotes in the Bible as the author is a pastor, which may cause some kind of discomfort for layman.
But emphasizes many principles of life that one cannot neglect on his way to progress: the power of prayer, expecting the best, having faith, believe in the Higher Power (God), relax to get work done, being a comfortable person and interested in people to get people like you..., just to name a few.
I'm on my way to apply positive thinking to my daily life.
أَمَا عَرَفْتَ أَمْ لَمْ تَسْمَعْ؟ إِلهُ الدَّهْرِ الرَّبُّ خَالِقُ أَطْرَافِ الأَرْضِ لاَ يَكِلُّ وَلاَ يَعْيَا. لَيْسَ عَنْ فَهْمِهِ فَحْصٌ. يُعْطِي الْمُعْيِيَ قُدْرَةً، وَلِعَدِيمِ الْقُوَّةِ يُكَثِّرُ شِدَّةً. اَلْغِلْمَانُ يُعْيُونَ وَيَتْعَبُونَ، وَالْفِتْيَانُ يَتَعَثَّرُونَ تَعَثُّرًا. وَأَمَّا مُنْتَظِرُو الرَّبِّ فَيُجَدِّدُونَ قُوَّةً. يَرْفَعُونَ أَجْنِحَةً كَالنُّسُورِ. يَرْكُضُونَ وَلاَ يَتْعَبُونَ. يَمْشُونَ وَلاَ يُعْيُونَ.بِحَسَب إِيمَانِكُمَا لِيَكُنْ لَكُمَاhttps://www.youtube.com/playlist?list...
A bit too religious. Norman Vincent Peele has written dozens of books. This is perhaps his most widely known one. As I said, it is a bit to laden with religion for my taste. He is a preacher, so a certain amount is to be expected, but I was excited when I came across the book in a store, and disappointed by the time I finished it...B/B = BORROW
Not everyone's cuppa. In fact, I wouldn't recommend it to anyone. However, it came to me at the right time and place.
There are also the “miracles „people get better when they believe God will help them and the miracle…happens, quite often.From Learned Optimism and other books in the same vein- Positive Psychology, I’ve found that optimists live better, longer, more satisfied, happier lives.That’s the Power of Positive Thinking: you live better, longer, healthier and more successful
I was going to read "The Secret" but for some reason felt that I should read this book instead.
I'm so glad I did.
I really enjoyed the message of this book.
It is an uplifting read.
My life has been changed for the better by reading it.
I noticed that some people complain in their reviews about there being too much religion in the book.
But the whole point of the book is that if we look to God, we will be more positive in our every day lives and therefore have better lives in the process.
Oh boy. I didn't actually read this one, I just listened to the audio book during a long car ride. It's read by the author, bless his heart, who was ninety-five years young when he recorded it, but doesn't sound a day over ninety-four. It's really more like a good old-fashioned Protestant sermon with a lot of anecdotal evidence and feel-good testimonials. Recommended for terminally upbeat people with the bi-annual blues.
"You are what you think" if you always think positive than the result of your thought will be positive as well, whatever your beliefs but this book is full of beneficial thought and experience to share. This book has teached me that no matter how negative things are,there mustbe a positive part on it,and with controlling our mind to stay positive we really can avoid many of negative things to be happend.
