https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/953226.The_Girl_on_the_Boat
It is hard not to like a good Wodehouse novel - as he says himself somewhere, his books are basically set in a world where romantic comedies come into being.
This isn’t one of the series of books he writes, there are no Jeeves or Woosters or Blandings of Blandings Castle.
Self-centred, stupid, nasty and spiteful – hardly the standard characters from a romantic comedy – and yet mostly everything works out well in the end, and if that isn’t a definition of a romantic comedy, it is hard to know what is.If you have never read any Wodehouse don’t start here, start with Jeeves and Wooster.
Another excellent Librivox reading of an early Wodehouse, this time by Kara Shallenberg (kayray). Amazing that a frolic written almost a century ago is as fresh and hilarious as ever. In fact, it's pleasant to inhabit this idyll of slow Atlantic crossings and English country houses lit only by oil-lamps and candles (such possibilities for farcical misapprehensions). Five chuckles.
Another perfectly smashing Wodehouse novel!
WHY don't we get books like this anymore??
I'm not good with audio books - that I realize every time I try.
But I've listened to a number of Wodehouse readings (is that what you call it?) so far this year and I was hooked from the first word to the last.
With audio books you have to listen and remember.
Literally)"It's like the stories of knights who jump into lion dens after ladies' gloves.
Vintage Wodehouse. A beautiful red-haired girl in search of her Galahad. A hypochondriac American in search of a peaceful summer of health and relaxation. And 3 young men in search of the redhead. Only one of the men is right for Billie, the redhead, but she doesn't know it, the others have their persuasive points, and the Atlantic crossing takes 9 days on the slow boat. Charming and easygoing, like a Tanqueray and tonic on a warm summer night.
Each and every page, paragraph and line of this novel will make you laugh more than 3-4 hours(roughly the time required to finish this novel) of watching a comedy show/movie.
You have a girl named Billie who gets engaged (and subsequently broken) to so many people within a matter of days that her father starts keeping count and shouts "FIVE", when he gets it right for once.
Then, there are two cousins, named Eustace and Sam who are besotted with the same red haired girl (Billie) and they all are aboard the same ship.
3 muži a prieberčivá slečna niekedy začiatkom 20. storočia - čo iné z toho môže vyjsť ako perfektná komédia (škoda, že nie je sfilmovaná).
I believe it was the new historicist, Steve Brownblot, who argued Wodehouse was part of a transatlantic cultural trade symbolized by the ocean liner.
Billie - also known as Wilhelmina Bennett - is engaged to a young man whose mother is an eminent writer and lecturer in an obscure field.
Most of the story takes place on a cruise ship, where romance blossoms between Billie and a third young man..
the owner being the above-mentioned esteemed writer, who is supposed to be doing a lecture tour in the USA.To add to the mixture, there's a warm-hearted butler who likes to read light romances, a friendly (if unintelligent) dog, and a suitably placed suit of armour.

3.5What to expect in a P.G. Wodehouse book? Lots of crazy characters..Some Crazy situations.. Some laugh out loud moments.. Some eye rolling romance.. some giggles..and lots of confusion..which sums up to give a perfect romantic comedy.Well, this book had all the above mentioned ingredients hence it was  “fun”:) !
My new favorite Wodehouse. Absolutely smashing.
This is the sixth time I have read this novel, which has made me laugh just a little less than the first time I read it.
I have read it in three languages (Spanish, Italian and English).
The cast of characters in unusual: a red-headed girl who gets betrothed five times in three weeks with three different men; the lady hunter who fires her elephant gun against the other guests in the house, but weeps because her beloved Eustace (who is in bed with mumps) has not declared his love; the heroine's father, who is always quarrelling with his best friend; and the orchestrion, which thunders Tosti's "Good-bye" at the most unexpected hours.
Delightful meaningless fluff. Pure Wodehousean fun.
This is pretty much the same book as "Three Men and a Maid" which is also available from Project Gutenberg.
This is a pretty good romp with a girl, "Billie" Bennet whom "Bobbie" Wickham would instantly dislike as they are very similar.
Bobbie is the quick, beautiful, rattle-headed, stubborn, self-willed girl who causes considerable difficulty for Bertie Wooster and even Jeeves.The three men are all doomed to be seen throwing bread at one another at the Drones Club; none of them worth anything really, but they are good company.
There is simply no way to be unhappy when you are reading one of Wodehouse's novels.
But I won't, because however funny they are as quotes they are so much better in context.
Go find yourself a copy (It's a public domain book that Project Gutenberg has made available; I read it in iBooks on my iPad and iPod but it's probably available on any eReader.) and be happy.
You won't be able to avoid it.
In this reliably entertaining romantic comedy from Wodehouse, Billie, the redhaired ingenue referenced in the title, gets engaged to three different young men in a remarkably short span of time--and they all end up on the same oceanliner bound from New York to England.
It's not a big surprise whether this will eventually happen or not, it's getting there that is such a delight.
An example line demonstrating why I like Wodehouse so much, describing the aristocratic mother of one of Billie's beaus: "She did not cease to look like a basilisk, but she began to look like a basilisk who has had a good lunch."
For the first half to two-thirds of P.G. Wodehouse's "Three Men and a Maid," I was pretty happy.
Yes, the main protagonist is an oaf and the heroine a high-maintenance princess.
But, the writing is pretty good.
The book doesn't really have the usual Wodehousian intertwined plots, but, instead, has intertwined characters.
I can tolerate an oaf for a main character.
There's some good humor in the book, with good writing, but the characters' personalities let me give the thing only an OK 3 stars out of 5.
Thus, you can find free versions.
For free, give it a try.
Standard Wodehouse, great for a rainy day, a nice light read.
The plot developed a bit slower, and while it got pretty funny at the end, there were long pauses between laughs.
I also felt that the characters were a bit undeveloped for Wodehouse.
Normally the characters represent a joke each, but you still very sympathetic with them, and feel that you have a good grasp on them; I felt that this was lacking here.
Still you’ll crack a few smiles, but if this is you first non-Wooster/Jeeves read I would turn to A Damsel In Distress or Love Among the Chickens
I've read only two earlier books by this humour genius, now I wish to devour all without wait.
Author's favourite style is to put two character in contact and communication, each referencing entirely different subject, and bewildering at plausible direction the conversation is taking, yet still trying to salvage, but not really giving away their own confusion in search of clarity.
Author breaks the fourth wall often, giving direct commentary to reader on topics related or unrelated to books.
Must read and you will be thankful that you did.
Eustace and Wilhemina plan a secret wedding because neither of their parents would agree to the union.
Bream wants to marry Wilhemina.
He is her father's preferred choice.
Samuel, Eustace's cousin, meets Wilhemina aboard an ocean liner.
Of course, he falls in love with her!
Three Men and a Maid!
Who will win her hand?
In answering the question, Mr. Wodehouse takes you from America to England in what I can only describe as a comedy of errors.
It was written at a time when kissing constituted engagement and "making love" did NOT involve a bed!
Not P.G. Wodehouse's best, but still a nice summer read. Great ending. Billie, the female all the men love, wants a Sir Galahad type. Sam Marlowe, decidedly not Sir G., at the end decides to kidnap her dog and then rescue the dog to show his bravery. Pure Wodehouse. Of course it all goes wrong, and Sam Marlowe ends up hiding first in a closet and later by donning a suit of armor that happens to be in the hallway. He's become Sir Galahad at last!
Yet another enjoyable Wodehouse read... this time we connect with the likes of Billie, Sam, Eustace, and others, finally ending in an eventual love affair...
A fun little book by Wodehouse about some rather silly men and their hair-brained schemes to woo a girl. But that describes just about every Wodehouse book, doesn't it? It's literary candy.
I want to read more Wodehouse!
Pure fun. Wodehouse's mastery of the English language will be appreciated by all intelligent readers: his use of inventive figurative language is especially delightful.
This is a tough book to rate on the one hand the protagonist is unlikable, all the characters are shallow and the author keeps breaking in as a narrator.
On the other hand this book has some absolutely wonderful comedic scenes and ends riotously.
Something Fresh along with Psmith, Journalist, A Damsel in Distress, Indiscretions of Archie and now Girl in the Boat are the five quality Wodehouse books out of those first 33, but those lovely humorous scenes, playing of the English language like a harp, wonderful similes and all the rest of the Wodehouse trademarks are starting to make ever more frequent appearances.
As in several of Wodehouse books, there is casual racism.
Second, the use of the term "white" to describe how "upstanding" a gentleman is.
He is white.2.
There is also casual sexism in the book.
The character of Sam, in his wooing of Billy, literally harasses her, lies to her, puts her in danger, attempts to steal her dog, and ultimately kidnaps her refusing to let her go until she agrees to marry him.
While all of these individual elements are described as lighthearted wooing, they are subtly dangerous as these behaviors are dangerous to normalize as romantic.
The book made me laugh as I could relate to the story - where love makes one blind (and fickle!), when people like to interrupt story telling with their own imagination, and how when things are destined to be will be as long as you are honest from the beginning of the relationship and throughout. I thought that it was an enjoyable read despite being written quite some time ago. :)P.S. I still have no clue as to how the book cover is related to the story. hehe.
Hilarious from start to finish!Falling in love comes as easily to Sam Marlow as it does to the object of his affections Billie Bennett. Though the twists and turns of their on then off again courtship are what make this story such an hilarious read! Full of wild and crazy characters, and told by an occasionally intrusive narrator, I enjoyed every moment in their company.
