https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10519.Art_and_Beauty_in_the_Middle_Ages
автори, які працюють із середньовіччям, зазвичай починають із того, що цей відтинок часопростору неможливо узагальнити, – а наступні кількасот сторінок вправляються в узагальнюванні. іноді в результаті виходять дуже гарні, написані широкими штрихами картини – як оцей текст умберто еко, зроблений у найкращих традиціях середньовічної естетики: красивий і корисний.
In fact, their questions and answers might even prove enlightening to us if we, for a moment, imagine our own period as one that suffers from a lack of an idea taken quite for granted by medieval European culture - the integrative quality of art, life, creation and morality.In any event, if we cultivate a modicum of knowledge about our medieval ancestors, it might be easier to realize when our own ignorance - not their illogicality or irrelevance - is the thing precluding us from a deeper understanding of them.
I found that I have picked up a very similar aesthetic to the one developed by the Scholastics.
(Eco kept saying, "Of course no one thinks this way about aesthetics anymore" and I kept wanting to jump up and shout, "I do!").
It was fascinating to see how medieval ideas about art and beauty developed over the course of several centuries, and was also a brilliant case study on how very thoroughly the medievals' worldview permeated their culture.
Among other things, this book provides explanations for why the Medievals liked solid colours (not shading), why later cathedrals had so many windows, why some pictures only have two Magi (not three) and why ugly things could be seen as beautiful.
Books like this are a mark of civilization, and reading them is a very great privilege.Despite being wrong about many aspects of creation and being flawed humans (their system was not fool-proof and was not capable (or at least not developed enough) of encompassing the full quirkiness of Creation), the Medievals really did seem to see the world more clearly than we do now.
Also recommended for anyone who thinks the Middle Ages was a waste of good time.
Честно? Мой размягчившийся за последние пять лет мозг вконец оплыл, но я-таки добила эту книгу. Неподготовленному читателю не рекомендуется.
Moderns assume that Renaissance thinkers and artists rediscovered the works of ancient Greece and Rome and had this amazing and original break with medieval tradition.
Platonic thought was dominant early on, where his ideal world of forms was the standard by which beauty and artistic craft were measured.
Often, artistic objects were judged beautiful by their symmetry to the world of ideals or of nature.
The book is very academic but is also accessible and a good introduction to aesthetics in the middle ages.
According to Eco, the medieval “philosophy of beauty appears cut off from its artistic practices as if by a sheet of glass.” As with all of Eco’s work, his brilliance shines forth, but perhaps owing to the early nature of “Art and Beauty in the Middle Ages” in the larger scheme of his ouvre, Eco manages to tackle the “philosophy of beauty” in a thorough, albeit workmanlike way, while for the most part neglecting the “artistic practices” part of the equation.
That being said, much can be gleaned from Eco’s survey of Middle Age philosophical thinking, and the conclusion is a powerhouse example of the clarity concision can bring when wrangling historical breadth.
I expected this book to be a history of...well, art and beauty in the Middle Ages. Instead, it proved to be series of essays on various aspects and movements in medieval aesthetic tradition, how Medievals perceived the world and beauty in the world. As Eco summarizes, "They saw the world with the eyes of God." Once I adjusted my brain to accommodate this meaty topic, I really enjoyed it. I definitely learned a lot, and realized that I have a lot left to learn. And I also need to read more Umberto Eco.
Um especialista em Estética e em Idade Média fala de estética medieval. Que mais se pode pedir?
Wonderful for pinpointing the philosophy and aesthetic of the Middle Ages and its art.
Medieval asceticism and mysticism provide us with many examples of these two psychological states, and also with some extremely interesting documentation concerning the aesthetic sensibility of the time.” (6) This is an excellent summary, and what follows are discussions of the major contributions and developments.The medieval ascetic highlighted a retreat to interior beauty.
The body is an image of the mind, which, like an effulgent light scattering forth its rays, is diffused through its members and senses, shining through in action, discourse, appearance, movement – even in laughter, if it is completely sincere and tinged with gravity.” (10) Many can find this line of thinking in today’s popular thought.There is an excellent discussion of the aesthetic principle of proportion.
Sin embargo, cuando lees un texto como el de Eco, te darás cuenta de que otros periodos de la historia fueron mucho más oscuros que la edad media.
Por ejemplo: en el renacimiento hubo más muertes por caza de brujas que en la edad media.
El libro "The Malleus Maleficarum" fue el responsable que se intensificara el miedo y la persecución de las brujas.
Curiosamente fue el alquimista el que paso a tener mayor importancia y relevancia en el renacimiento como figura pública.
Buen libro con mucha información y nombres para tener en cuenta en el estudio de la Edad Media.

Not many people could weave together the disparate strands of philosophy, theology and art history that Eco does, covering a period ranging over a thousand years but doing so in a way that does not seem rushed or sketchy.
I'm looking forward even more now to reading some of his historical fiction!
Anyone who enjoys medieval history or philosophy or aesthetics in general will, I think, find this study stimulating in the least.
I borrowed this book from my university library, but halfway through I had to buy it.
I just could not read it without marking it up...
Eco plays with language as Mozart played with music, and art and beauty are set like gems in the matrix of evolving medieval thought, which is delineated in this context.
A familiarity with the major theologians of the Middle Ages helps, but the book is accessible anyway, amusing on occasion, and respectful.
I learned new words, was surprised to find bright colors almost a universal attribute of beauty (Eco did not discuss this attribute to my satisfaction, probably because few writers wrote about it), and was charmed by the respectful, slightly gossipy tone.
At the feet of masters, one can learn much and observe more.
Having encountered quite a lot of medieval cathedrals and frescoes during my recent holiday in France, it seemed like a good time to read this book.
It came highly recommended and it didn't disappoint.
Rare to find a book of such intellectual breadth that remains concise.
Now I can't claim that I followed every twist and turn.
My familiarity with the medieval scholars mentioned and quoted throughout is not what it might be!
But I still came away with a useful and stimulating sense of the evolution of thinking about art and beauty in the centuries that led up to the Renaissance.
A great book, easy to follow and well written. It's interesting to have an understanding of what made something beautiful in the eye of a citizen of the Middle Ages, and indeed how the definition of the word has changed over time. The one thing I wished had been included, considering this was a book on art and beauty, would be some examples of art from the Middle Ages. I also felt that the book was pretty short, that a topic this broad deserved more than 119 pages.
I'll refrain from starring this because a significant percentage of it flew straight over my head (I really need to re-read this book when I'm more familiar with the terminology of medieval theology and philosophy). The parts that I did understand were fascinating and presented beautifully with neutrality & clarity.
Scholarly philosophical survey of aesthetics in the Middle Ages. A short but heavy book delving into the world of scholasticism, mysticism, neo-Platonism, and nominalism with regards to beauty. Reading it was like alchemy. The fact Eco wrote this at age 24 when he was in the Army (pardon the crass metaphor) but it bloweth meh mind!
Umberto Eco considers questions like: what was the role and status of an artist in the middle ages? How did they conceive of creativity? By what standards did they judge things beautiful? Putting aside their theories, what does their writing betray about how they understood beauty? Most of the answers are heavily weighted by how the Church viewed man's relationship with God.
This highly readable introduction to medieval aesthetics is far more accessible than Eco's fiction. The section on Aquinas is the densest chapter, but it's worth the slog. (Or not, if you just can't stand Aquinas.) Definitely recommended to anyone who is interested in learning more about medieval concepts of art.
Lovely and lyrical style, more poetry than prose. A refreshing and enjoyable change of pace from most of the other volumes I read in my Gothic Spirit class!
Interesting, but too verbose at times. I expected something more connected to Medieval art than to Medieval thought. Hmm.
A brief but satisfying introduction to art and beauty in the middle ages. Perhaps most impressive is the intricate metaphysical framework used in expounding the doctrine of beauty.
very short book, yet contains so much. Interlibrary loan this book today, its worth it.
Another very important book! A scholarly study and at its time, a very interesting approach to a story hardly touched by others!
gara-gara baca the name of the rose-nya Eco, aku jadi tertarik ne dengan dunia abad pertengahan...dimana ya bisa dapat buku ini...???
одна из лучших книг эко. не смотря на заявленную тему содержит рассказ о специфике средневековья как эпохи и мировоззрения.
here's one i haven't read for almost, could it be...ugh...20 years...but it had a mighty impact at the time.want to revisitthink i'll love it even more
Remember, Signore Eco, wrote this at a mere 24 years of age. Read it and weep.
