https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12948173-england-your-england
George Orwell thinks England’s not that bad and up yours to anyone who thinks otherwise!
Among the topics touched upon are the distinct class divides, the curiously anti-militaristic attitude of the time juxtaposed with the existence of the Empire (maintained through military strength), and the not especially patriotic views of the general public - until a bully like Hitler starts throwing his weight around and then everyone’s signing up to fight for King and Country!Orwell never fails to write well but this time the content didn’t grab me in the way it normally does.
I don't know that it's possible to dislike Orwell.


It's filled with insidious myths and self deceptions - as well as some interesting insights - into the English character. Gave me a few reasons why I love England, and many many many more why I hate it. But then again, I'm clearly part of the anti-english left wing intelligentsia he criticises.
Immaculately written, of course, this is nonetheless a confusing book: a weird amalgam of nationalist myth-making and bold assertions, attempting to define 'Englishness' and to bridge both socialism and patriotism.
I can only assume that Orwell's desire to forge a nationalist discourse arises from the time of its writing, 1941, when Britain was at war, and facing the imminent threat of a fascist invasion.
Orwell, in this, is like the famous elephant facing the blind men of an Indian traditional tale: one feels the trunk, and identifies it as a snake; another, the leg, and assumes it is a tree ...
Great fun. It's an enjoyable piece of writing, even if he sometimes gets carried away with his own particular beefs, and the changes of tone are occasionally a bit abrupt. For example, at random: "Since the [eighteen] fifties every war in which England has engaged has started off with a series of disasters, after which the situation has been saved by people comparatively low on the social scale". I'm sure he would want to modify that a little if pressed, but it sums up/exemplifies a cheery romp
It's an enjoyable piece of writing, even if he sometimes gets carried away with his own particular beefs, and the changes of tone are occasionally a bit abrupt.
Obviously, placed firmly as it is in the context of England's being bombed as he wrote, there are odd bits which seems a little quaint.
And there are outbursts you would pretty much expect Orwell to come out with, for example the chapter on class: 
"England is the most class-ridden country under the sun.
For me the enduring image of this piece is of a deeply patriotic man, not necessarily in any bombastic way, simply a guy who really loves the place he comes from.
He discusses the Nazis, Marxism, he analyses the English people's views on military, the empire, England's "notorious" pay-gap.
I was disappointed, given Orwell's famous forward vision, but I understand this writing is of it's time, for it's time and was not written to be read by me 75 years on.This book was far from redundant however.
It is interesting to read how Englishness was viewed back then and it is short enough to breeze through fairly quickly so if you are interested in Orwell's musings on England in the 40s then this is the book for you.
He often seemed to contradict his own previous statements.
Every statement has been softened so as not to harm public morale.
This does not necessarily mean that Orwell doesn't believe what he is writing, I do very much think he was sincere in this work, but his argument gets muddled by all these different factors at play.
This may seem surprising due to the rating I gave it, but despite me groaning and huffing at every other sentence in this work, I thoroughly enjoyed seeing this side of Orwell and this aspect of the British war effort.
You don't have to agree with everything Orwell says to respect his understanding of British character and culture.
We could do with an Orwell today but, sadly, in our dumbed-down, politically correct age, peopled with pygmy politicians, intellects like his are increasingly rare.
I read this booklet (it's only 40 pages long) largely because I was hooked by the opening sentence: 'As I write, highly civilized human beings are flying overhead, trying to kill me.' He certainly knows how to lure the reader in.
This is no dry piece of writing.
It has both insight and humour, and will, I am sure, repay more than one reading.
A very good, interesting and intriguing book looking at British Culture and Britishness/ Englishness.
On one side there are comments and witticisms very similar to the writings of Bill Bryson and on the other side an exceptionally good insight onto the changing scene of socialism, the class system and the changes within the Class Structure since the end of the 1800's.
Having read a lot of Orwell's other works, you can see the growth and change in his views and ideas and better understanding of socialism.
It also provides a unique snapshot of where socialism was compared to where it has moved to and become now.
Written during the Blitz this is, as ever with Orwell, a clear concise account of how he saw the state of England at a seminal moment in history with Europe under the heel of the Axis power and England in imminent threat of invasion. What is extraordinary, 90 years on, is that much which Orwell says is just as applicable today. The only misfire" being his prediction that the class system and class consiousness would break down.
B.R.A.CE. 2018 Ένα βιβλίο με λιγότερες από 100 σελίδες   George Orwell back in 1940's write an essay about England and its people. He uses all the bad and good habits that English people have, and it's quite amazing how some of those patterns (if not all of them) still exist in the island. His perception is one more amazing and when you finish this small book you can think that it's still so contemporary.
As a modern reader, I find it amazing that this was written nearly 80 years ago. It's very easy to recognise the Britain that Orwell writes about: whilst Britain has lost the respect for privacy that Orwell celebrates here (thanks to Murdoch and Rothermere, many British people seem to have become gouls who delight in the detail of others' lives) there is so very much that describes the UK of today. Fascinating. Read it.
Interesting but not entirely satisfying (I understand that this is an excerpt from a longer book). It seems to lack focus and distance: written in the early days of World War 2, some of the references and points made would probably have had more impact on a contemporary audience. Still, he makes some good points, particularly about the upper classes. The attempt to analyse Englishness, like all such attempts, is partially successful but also a little dated.
Enjoyed very much, but not as enlightening as sometimes. Also, it's a little meandering, which I guess is no bad thing, but means it has less of a spark than usual. Perhaps the class system and general oddness of England is well known to me.
Very much a product of its time, but some details still surprisingly (depressingly?) relevant. The suet pudding might be passé, but Eton and Harrow are still here. I wonder what Orwell would have made of Brexit.
It's an interesting read, from the perspective of the timeframe it was written.
Orwell smashes it again and again and again. Excellent foresight.
Very dated in places, however still very interesting and surprisingly relevant today.
Interesting and stimulating in context, if not necessarily always historically or philosophically accurate on a number of points.
Increasingly relevant in the modern day.
I feel like this rating is due to my personal reading experience and not the actual content of this essay. I skim read most of this 40 page pamphlet but the bits i did focus on i did enjoy! I'll definitely be picking up more Orwell in the future.
George Orwell has such interesting, remarkable things to say, I just bask in the glory of his words.
Some of his assessments are a bit too optimistic or pessimistic by hindsight, however certain points he made, e.g. on how writers should deal with politics, power and truth, though arguably flawed, could still be relevant today. And his critique of the selective "antiimperialists" and the partisan reporting on wars arguably still hold true to this day. Also I wonder how much of his characterization of "Englishness" remains true today.
Can't believe so little has changed in 77 years.
