https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/111879.Collected_Poems
Free at last,And loaded with the sum of all they saw,We hurried towards London, shuffling gouts of steam.Now fields were building-plots, and poplars castLong shadows over major roads, and forSome fifty minutes, that in time would seemJust long enough to settle hats and say I nearly died,A dozen marriages got under way.They watched the landscape, sitting side by side- An Odeon went past, a cooling tower, Andsomeone running up to bowl - and noneThought of the others they would never meetOr how their lives would all contain this hour.I thought of London spread out in the sun,Its postal districts packed like squares of wheat:There we were aimed.
Simple, uncomplicated poetry.
I need to read the properly arranged version, but this was a good start.Favorite:“Best Society” by Philip LarkinWhen I was a child, I thought,Casually, that solitudeNever needed to be sought.Something everybody had,Like nakedness, it lay at hand,Not specially right or specially wrong,A plentiful and obvious thingNot at all hard to understand.Then, after twenty, it becameAt once more difficult to getAnd more desired — though all the sameMore undesirable; for whatYou are alone has, to achieveThe rank of fact, to be expressedIn terms of others, or it’s justA compensating make-believe.Much better stay in company!To love you must have someone else,Giving requires a legatee,Good neighbours need whole parishfulsOf folk to do it on — in short,Our virtues are all social; if,Deprived of solitude, you chafe,It’s clear you’re not the virtuous sort.Viciously, then, I lock my door.The gas-fire breathes.
Once moreUncontradicting solitudeSupports me on its giant palm;And like a sea-anemoneOr simple snail, there cautiouslyUnfolds, emerges, what I am.(1951)
Read Emir Never's comment. Clever man!They fuck you up, your mum and dad.  They may not mean to, but they do. They fill you with the faults they had And add some extra, just for you.But they were fucked up in their turn By fools in old-style hats and coats, Who half the time were soppy-stern And half at one another’s throats.Man hands on misery to man. It deepens like a coastal shelf.Get out as early as you can, And don’t have any kids yourself.Edit
When people say they don't like Larkin I wonder what the f*ck they read that they didn't like.
I fully admit that I know very little about poetry. Very little. But what I've now read of Philip Larkin's work really didn't grab me at all. At times, it irritated the heck out of me. (This started with a nasty little poem called "To My Wife" and never really went away. Also, as far as I could tell, he never married.)Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
This Be The Verse - Happy Father's Day!I feel like a liar whenever I mark down a good book of poetry as 'read'. You don't read it straight through, and you don't ever finish it. With poetry (and memorable fiction) you go back and reference the good bits infrequently. Larkin's joining that group, no question.So what if the man is a shitheel? What he created will endure, beautiful and decayed as it is.
Uma vez lido um poema é isso mesmo, é completamente claro o que quer dizer.»— Philip Larkin"Aubade Trabalho o dia inteiro e à noite bebo demais.Acordo às quatro e fito a escuridão silenciosa.A seu tempo a luz colorirá a orla das cortinas.Até lá vejo o que sempre de verdade lá está:A morte sem repouso, agora um dia inteiro mais perto,Não me deixa pensar a nada ser em comoE onde e quase eu próprio hei-de morrer.Árida interrogação: mas o pavorDe morrer e de estar morto,Reluz de novo diante de mim e horroriza.O clarão esvazia a mente.
He atomizes adornment, ceremony and cheerfulness, holding them by the tips of his fingers, as if they reek.It entertains me that he describes three married couples as follows: "Adder-faced singularityEspouses a nailed-up childhood,Skin-disease pardonsSoft horror of living,A gabble is forgiven By chronic solitude."It entertains me because it is typical of him to reduce people to their worst, and typical that he goes on to rob these unions of their romance by depicting them all "tarnish[ing] at quiet anchor." In Larkin's poetry, context will always get you in the end.
পড়লাম এক মাস ধরে, আসতে ধীরে। আমার হাতে এই বই যখন আসে, তখন নামও মনে হয় শুনি নাই আমি লারকিনের, তারপর মাস গেলো, বছর গেলো, আমি ভুলে গেছি, এই বই কই পাওয়া, কিনতু এর মাঝে বইটা আগের চেয়েও শাদাটে, নিসতেজ হয়ে গেছে, লারকিনের কবিতার এই ফটোকপিরে এখন দেখলে মনে হয়, সে যেনো লারকিনের ফটোকপির ফটোকপিরও ফটোকপি না, অকষরগুলি পরায় নাই নাই, কে জানে কখনো ছিলো কী না। লারকিনের কবিতার মতই। পরথম দিকের কবিতাগুলি ত খুব বেশি লোকের ভালো হয় না, যদি না পরথম কবিতা লিখে সে নিরুদদেশে পা দেয় - এই লোকের পরথম কবিতাগুলিও খুব বেশি ভালো ল
পড়লাম এক মাস ধরে, আস্তে ধীরে। আমার হাতে এই বই যখন আসে, তখন নামও মনে হয় শুনি নাই আমি লারকিনের, তারপর 
I was given a copy of this book by my parents. (No, really! I am not making this up!) I'm afraid I'm still in shock... may have a comment by 2011 if the therapy works out.
Philip Larkin seemed to be everywhere in 2011 and 2012. Annus Mirabilis figured prominently in Julian Barnes's novel  The Sense of an Ending (so much so that critical analysis of Larkin took over a good portion of Colm Toibin's review of that Booker Prize-winning novella in The New York Review of Books): Philip Larkin has an unfinished poem from the early 1960s called “The Dance” in which the main character “in the darkening mirror sees/The shame of evening trousers, evening tie” and then, on ar
Larkin's glass is not only half-empty, the part that is not empty is soon-to-be empty, and anyone who thinks otherwise is a vapid nobody blinding themselves to Truth.Sometimes this combination of, to steal from Toibin, consoling form and unconsoled message can be delicious, as in the 1951 poem which is sardonically titled Next, Please and depicts the promise of the future as a distant armada:
Not exactly light reading, but still worth reading.My personal favourites, in chronological order:* Next, Please: about death, which is memorably depicted as a ship in whose wake "no waters breed or break"* Triple Time: also death, in a way; the passage of time, and regrets* Deceptions: a painful one, about rape.
However, the last line, "To burst into fulfilment's desolate attic", feels tragic in a more universal way, and warns of the hidden bleakness of any sort of presumed fulfillment -- in love, career, life -- which honestly just about sums up Larkin's less cheerful poems.
Larkin's poetry is so smooth and so pleasing to the eye and mind that it seems effortless to read and contain within yourself.
A Larkin poem seems so perfectly said and put together that one feels his elegant arrangement came to him in a flash of inspiration.
I think he struggled with poems for years, just like other poets.
He's Auden-like in that way.
That word again, his poetry is elegant in the same way Auden's poetry is elegant.
Larkin is a surgeon of words, the perfect one placed just so to create the right cadence and tone.
I don't know how many times I've red these Collected Poems.
Larkin creates beautiful scenes and metaphors simply to rip them to pieces, helping you to realize that there was only a gaping space to begin with.
Beauty and warm feeling is only a mirage is Larkin's world.
If you want to check out Larkin but don't want your mood ruined, read one of my favorite poems, "Born Yesterday"If you want to see a little of Larkin's typical, sad style, try "Talking in Bed," "High Windows," and "Posterity," some of my favorites that will make you feel terrible as soon as you understand them.
The only reason I kept going was because a reviewer I respect had mentioned how much he liked Larkin's poems, so I thought that there might yet be something I'd find to enjoy.
Starting immediately after that first collection, though, I thought there was a shift in Larkin's style, and I started finding more and more poems that meant something to me.This is part of my ongoing attempt to tune my tin ear for poetry to the point where I'm not completely deaf--I had high hopes for Larkin, as I had high hopes for Robert Lowell before him.
To only give such a famous poet as Philip Larkin only four stars means I did not care for these poems as much as others do.
Here is his most famous poem.
Unfortunately, it is totally different than all of his others: This Be The VerseBY PHILIP LARKINThey fuck you up, your mum and dad.
They may not mean to, but they do.
They fill you with the faults they had And add some extra, just for you.But they were fucked up in their turn By fools in old-style hats and coats, Who half the time were soppy-stern And half at one another’s throats.Man hands on misery to man.
My favorite poet. Here's why:For, though I've no ideaWhat this accoutred frowsty barn is worth,It pleases me to stand in silence here;A serious house on serious earth it is,In whose blent air all our compulsions meet,Are recognized, and robed as destinies.And that much never can be obsolete,Since someone will forever be surprisingA hunger in himself to be more serious,And gravitating with it to this ground,Which, he once heard, was proper to grow wise in,If only that so many dead lie round.--"Church Going"
IntroductionThe North Ship--'All catches alight'--'This was your place of birth, this daytime palace
I read this as my "read at least one poem a day" thing, so it took me a while, but I utterly enjoyed it. I'm trying to get re-acquainted with poetry, and Larkins snarkiness, depression and bouts of deep humanity (but not too much of it) were right up my alley.
I feel like I should have liked this book but I didn't.
Just stock-in-trade white-man-thinking-about-mortality-and-childhood-and-the-fragility-of-life-while-looking-at-nature poems, and I wound up feeling really alienated and orphaned, like, I cannot identify with a huge portion of the western canon because it is in this tradition and totally reinforces concepts in which I cannot, will not, REFUSE to place faith.
Where/who are my progenitors?
Also, there's this weird poem where he empathizes with a rapist?
That's upsetting too.
Larkin, I promise not to think about you again until I have to teach you.
My profile says it all. I love Philip Larking. Even more-so, I love that a deep connection can be made between people who are unknown to each other or lived a different timeline simply by words. Words that spark the same feelings and excitements.Everyone has that "one author" or "one writer" whom they love to read. And when they read that one "author" or "writer," they feel that they were reading was written especially for them. They feel understood and, for a brief moment, content with being who they are.Philip Larkin does that for me.
best poet of the twentieth century? easy. just read Aubade and try and dispute that fact. or The Old Fools. goddamn. "Deprivation is for me what daffodils were for Wordsworth." yes, indeed.
Where's the sourceOf these yarns now (except in nightmares, of course)?"Poetry Of Departures"Sometimes you hear, fifth-hand,As epitaph:He chucked up everythingAnd just cleared off,And always the voice will soundCertain you approveThis audacious, purifying,Elemental move.And they are right, I think.We all hate homeAnd having to be there:I detest my room,It's specially-chosen junk,The good books, the good bed,And my life, in perfect order:So to hear it saidHe walked out on the whole crowdLeaves me flushed and stirred,Like Then she undid her dressOr Take that you ****;Surely I can, if he did?And that helps me to staySober and industrious.But I'd go today,Yes, swagger the nut-strewn roads,Crouch in the fo'c'sleStubbly with goodness, if It weren't so artificial,Such a deliberate step backwardsTo create an object:Books; china; a lifeReprehensibly perfect."Forget What Did"Stopping the diaryWas a stun to memory,Was a blank starting,One no longer cicatrizedBy such words, such actionsAs bleakened waking.l wanted them over.Hurried to burialAnd looked back onLike the wars and wintersMissing behind the Windowsof an opaque childhood.And the empty pages?Should they ever be filledLet it be with observedCelestial recurrences,The day the flowers come.And when the birds go."
Life is an immobile, locked,Three-handed struggle betweenYour wants, the world's for you, and (worse)The unbeatable slow machineThat brings what you'll get. Blocked,They strain round a hollow stasisOf havings-to, fear, faces.Days sift down it constantly. Years.
direct | heartfelt | honest
The social changes during the 60s and 70s were immense and Larkin reflects them with interest, regret at what he has missed and at what is lost, as well as with a certain gentle understanding and empathy.
Society has changed and Larkin has tried to express himself more freely, enjoying a certain liberation with the times.
This movement with the changes in society is seen throughout Larkin’s poems.I shall end this review now with 'Annus Mirabilis', a poem I think reveals great deal about Larkin and his world, even if he did overestimate the effects of the so-called ‘sexual revolution’ (although I do recall thinking back then that we had invented sexual intercourse).

His self-described master subject may still have been deprivation, but images of the natural world are not exempt from his vision of the world.Like any minor poet -- and he surely is a minor poet, and there isn't a thing in the world wrong with that -- Larkin can capture an incredibly complex feeling of longing, regret, or loss in a few, short lines.
Exacting construction such as Larkin's can sometimes feel a bit like constriction, like you'd expect from someone known for their grumpiness -- and sometimes it definitely does.
But exact construction also offers a near-infinite re-readability, something Larkin's poetic work is especially suited for.
What I like about this edition of Larkin's poems is that the publisher grouped Larkin's poetry according to their respective collections, as Larkin himself intended them to be presented.In my mind, this adds to the authenticity of the reading experience, where your understanding of Larkin's perspectives and meditations grows and evolves as he forms his ideas over time.My particular favorite is "Church Going".
I recommend contrasting/comparing it to "Whitsun Weddings".
Yet, therein lies a certain affirmation of the necessary and nurturing qualities of spirituality (I think).Of course, it's up to interpretation.But make no mistake, Larkin grouped his collections in a particular fashion for a reason and it's fascinating to consider their purpose within their poetic society.
Larkin probably resonates more as one gets older, but you don't have to be ancient to appreciate his brilliant craftsmanship.
While many celebrated modern poets come across as ephemeral, foolish or even lightweight, Larkin's melancholia is beautiful, soaring and timeless.There was a period a few years ago when his reputation suffered, mainly due to unflattering accounts of his personal life and political views.
Childish critics who engage in character assassination usually have little else to say and learning about supposed character flaws (information that is often gleaned from jealous contemporaries) is hardly going to enhance one's enjoyment of the work.
The work is what matters and, in that respect, Larkin reigns supreme.
