https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24875.House_of_Stairs
A chilling and suspenseful tale that stick with the reader for years to come.This book is recommended for 9-12 year olds, however, I think it might be a bit intense for the younger side of this group, and I, as an adult, thoroughly enjoyed Slater's treatment of this psychological horror.Personal Note: I read this book as a tween, and it stuck with me all these years.
I read many of the Amazon.com reviews, and so many of them were from adults that still remember the impact this book had on them.My Review:This is an incredibly creative and original science fiction tale that chronicles the events that take place when five teen-aged orphans are behaviorally trained to respond to a machine.
After googling different phrases for a while, I finally found the name of the book I read when I was around 12 that catapulted me into my interest into psychology and the human mind.
I remember reading this and being horrified by concepts I couldn't quite yet really grasp, but what stuck with me was the fact that not everyone acquiesced.
While I didn't understand it, really, as a kid, this book and the message in its story has remained with me my entire life.
I haven't re-read it as an adult yet, but I will be.
A certain power stucture evolves when it is discovered that of all the people, only Oliver can bring Peter out of his trances.
It levels some pretty harsh accusations about human nature, not just regarding the kids in the house of stairs, but also regarding the people who put them there.
Upon reflection, the people pulling the strings are far more frightening and disturbing than these poor, manipulated children.If nothing else, the lesson to be learned from this story is simple - be a human being.
House of Stairs has showed up on LibraryThing's Name That Book group three times in the past year.
They are blindfolded, taken from their group homes and dumped in a huge, brightly-lit building filled with neverending stairs, bridges and landings.
Most importantly, there is a machine with flashing lights and sounds that sometimes dispenses food contingent on certain behaviors from the teens.Lola (the badass), Peter (the shrinking violet), Blossom (the spoiled, self-centered brat), Abigail (the pleaser), and Oliver (the alpha-male) have to figure out how to behave to get the machine to feed them.
These books teach us that there are even worse fates than losing your life – it's losing your humanity.In House of Stairs, William Sleator proves just how quickly humans can be stripped of their humanity.
Just a few years prior to its publication there was also the infamous Stanford Prison Experiment – a study designed to ostensibly observe the effects of becoming either a prisoner or prison guard.
That’s the set-up.
It doesn’t surprise me that in 2000, the American Library Association, with teen participation, chose it as one of the 100 Best Young Adult Books of the last 50 years.
A modern classic. I read House of Stairs frequently as a child, and was happy to see this speculative novel from 1974 stands the test of time.That's because Sleator wisely keeps the "futuristic" science fiction touches to a minimum. There's a very '70s reference to air pollution, but it isn't pivotal. The rest of the book is about what doesn't change: human nature.I'm handing this to my son to read now. I have the feeling he'll be as riveted by it as I was at his age.
وحشتناک!اولین چیزی که با خوندن کتاب یادش افتادم، نظام آموزشی بود. نظامی که سعی میکنه با تنبیه، دانشآموزان رو شرطیسازی کنه برای این که توی سیستم براشون کارگری کنن.نکتهٔ منفیش از نظر من، پایانبندیش بود. انگار در فصل آخر، بجّهها چندین سال بزرگ میشن. چون اون حرفها از زبون یه بچّهٔ ۱۶ ساله در نمیآد.یه پاراگراف آخر کتاب اما خوب بود.
‫وحشتناک!‫اولین چیزی که با خوندن کتاب یادش افتادم، نظام آموزشی بود. نظامی که سعی می‌کنه با تنبیه، دانش‌آموزان رو شرطی‌سازی کنه برای این که توی سیستم براشون کارگری کنن.‫نکتهٔ منفیش از نظر من،‌ پایان‌بندیش بود. انگار در فصل آخر، بجّه‌ها چندین سال بزرگ می‌شن. چون اون حرف‌ها از زبون یه بچّهٔ ۱۶ ساله در نمی‌آد.‫یه پاراگراف آخر کتاب اما خوب بود.
When the machine starts rewarding violence of the physical and psychological types the kids are pushed to either follow directions of take a stand for what they believe in.It’s pretty damn awesome.
Peter, Lola, Blossom, Abigail and Oliver are our protagonists and they all clearly differ from one another with the five of them presenting a nice range of reactions and interactions to each other and the situation around them.
Peter is a follower and lacks confidence, Lola is a doer, confident and looks for a way out, Blossom is a fat spoiled girl who grew up with wealthy politicians and seems to have learnt to manipulate people by dividing them against each other.
I checked it out from the Lawrence Public Library when I was 9 or 10 and read the first 15 pages, and then it got away from me.
And how could I go to a librarian and describe the convoluted plot of an obscure 70's kids book?
So I would think about this book from time to time for the next 18 years, despairingly, and then I was reading a review of The Hunger Games in the New Yorker, and Laura Miller gave a quick summary of the genre of YA distopic sci-fi, and described this book with complete citations!
Obviously, House of Stairs came first, and I actually feel that it is better than the aforementioned MZ (more so when summing up the series as a whole) because here we have this fantastic novel that is not even two hundred pages long, and yet it is a completely realised, satisfying read.
The ending is very good also.I was going to give this four stars, but after finishing it I realised that it is the kind of book I will probably read again (and again?) so I'll go all the way and give it five.
Probably the first dystopian novel I ever read. Because of this book, near the beginning of season one of LOST I was already predicting the cages and fish-biscuits that would show up in season three.UPDATE: Reread in 2013 after reading multiple times from ages 10-20. It has held up really well for a book written in the mid-1970s, besides some unfortunate stereotyping that was more common at the time.
اگه چند سال پیش این کتاب رو میخوندم احتمالا لذت بیشتری میبردمچون با اینکه جذب کتاب شده بودم و تندتند خوندمش، ولی دلیل اتفاقاتِ توی کتاب برام قابل حدس بود و چند صفحه ی آخر کتاب، لذت باقی کتاب رو تا حدودی ازم گرفتیه نکته ی منفی برای نسخه ی فارسیبنده طراح نیستم ولی با توجه به داستان، کاورهای خیلی بهتر و خلاقانه تری هم میشد برای این کتاب گذاشت :)
جالب بودداستان و فضاى كلي كتاب به شدت منو ياد فيلم مكعب مينداخت ( هموني شبكه چهار هر روز پخش ميكنه)خوشبختانه نويسنده الكى داستان رو كش نداده بوداون يه ستاره رو هم فقط به خاطر پايان نسبتا قابل حدسش كم كردم
As a Psychology mayor, I have studied and am versed in the risks, benefits and limitations of conditioned reinforcement.
To say that the experiment plotted out by the scientist of the book is unequivocally unethical, is to merely state the obvious.
But what other experiments have been performed on real-life human beings, with similar, devastating effects?
What charades are being performed even now, controling the population through study and marketing, through communication and the control of information, through the very nature of the human being and it's innate willingness to be controlled?
In control lays security, be it by virtue of being in control or by being the controlled.
Dang!
Where was this book when I was younger??!?
For being a few decades old, it really hasn't aged much!
This psychological teen read throws five 16 year old orphans into a weird uninviting alien environment filled only with stairs.
None of them know why they are there or how to escape.
They wander around and find a weird machine that will give them food, only when they figure out how to meet it's weird demands.
It's the 5 of them against this weird environment, what will happen if they stop working together?
A weird, interesting, and compelling read.
İnsanın şartlandırıldığı koşullarda nasıl davranacağına dair harika bir distopya. Kısa ama derin bir okuma oldu benim için. Ancak uzun zamandır beni böyle derinden etkileyen bir distopya okumamıştım. Tekrar bakıp bazı durumlar ve nesneler neyi sembolize ediyor onu görmek lazım.
The two of them then encounter a rather large girl, named Blossom, in the middle of stuffing her face with meat cylinders coming out of a odd machine on the floor, and shortly after two others, Abigail and Oliver, join them.
He goes on to realize that Oliver is not what nor who he needs and is able to see through the deceptiveness of Blossom, and with Lola's help he really comes into his own as a strong individual.
Because of this Lola and Peter appear to become stronger people at the end of the story.
Wow ok, I didn’t expect this to be this good, it starts directly into the suspense, but I can’t believe that it built up so well. Every character was unique and memorable. It was just sooo good, easy 5 stars for me. One of the best reads of this year, I’m still surprised of how good it was!!!
I also read this as kid.
House of Stairs (1974) in which five sixteen-year-olds are locked in a windowless, doorless house explicitly based on the 1951 lithograph "House of Stairs" by M C Escher and subjected to an unpleasant experiment in behavioral Psychology.
That was an incredibly disturbing take on the psychological process of operant conditioning. Skinnerian theories taken to a dystopian extreme. Wow. Kids read this?
Peter and Lola, however, strengthen one another in resisting corruption.A major weakness in HOUSE OF STAIRS, however, is its depiction of the villains, Oliver and Blossom.
The privileged daughter of government officials, obese Blossom seeks only to make the machine produce as much food as possible and spitefully to turn the other children against one another.
Until the very end, the HOUSE OF STAIRS only hints obliquely at the dystopian world outside the environment in which the children are trapped.
HOUSE OF STAIRS reflects Cold War fears that the government was conducting dehumanizing experiments on human beings to advance the war effort.
For years, I kept trying to figure out what I had read that was so similar to The Cube (spoiler: It was House of Stairs)Finally, just last week, I was searching for it again, and there it was.
There are certain points--where Lola is working with Peter and his trances--that were a little obvious, but, then, I'm reading the book as a 33 year-old adult who is more than passingly familiar with the idea of Pavlovian responses.
What would you do if you woke up in a seemingly never-ending space full of stairs?I don't know about you, but I would freak out.
And House of Stairs tells the story of five teenagers in this situation freaking out.Do we know why they are trapped in a literal house of stairs?
Super interesting and chill-inducing, because it makes you wonder who you would be if you were pushed to that kind of limit.The story is less about the actual plot and more about the psychology behind it, which was different than what I usually read and proved to be entertaining.
I didn't remember reading this as a kid until I checked out the book and saw the same cover I'd stared at when I was younger.
It's kind of funny because this book is about psychological conditioning and I had a strong recognition reaction to the cover even though, like Singularity, I didn't actually remember any of the plot.
In Singularity I identified with the main character's major shift to develop independence, and in this I was fascinated by how Sleator describes one way in which people might be conditioned.
Both books have a similar tone, although The Hunger Games is more tightly written, fast-paced, and suspenseful.
What Sleator's book has is a really thought-provoking setup that asks you to think about humanity and how easily we can turn on each other.The setup is this: a teenage orphan boy is blindfolded and taken to a secret location.
The things it's asking them to do, though, get stranger and stranger.It's a short book, so I think it's worthwhile for fans of The Hunger Games to give this old school book a try.
So....he wrote adult stories (for the most part) and populated them with teenagers.
"House Of Stairs" was his first book and may be his masterpiece.Using the familiar "5 characters in search of an exit" theme, "House Of Stairs" quickly moves on to several levels of actions, both inward and outward.
I don't want to give away the story or the ending--let's just say that it turns out that the five characters are in a place no human being should be, for a purpose no human being should be subjected to.Read and see for yourself.
If you've read the book thoroughly.
I cannot say I liked it--in the sense it is not meant to be liked.
It is meant to make one think and that it does.To me one disturbing thing is--in no way did I feel "This could never happen".
Knowing what inhumane things HAVe been done, nothing like this 'experiment' actually happening would surprise me.In only 176 pages, William Sleator delivers an unforgettable tale.Btw, although often recommended for teens, I would recommend age 15 or older, due to the intensity of the writing.Highly recommend for anyone desiring an intriguing story; especially recommended if you like psychological suspense.

Taut juvenile fiction novel. It's a Lord-of-the-Flies-esque tale of a group of orphans who find themselves mysteriously left alone in a bizarre prison of endlessly interlocking stairs. Slowly they're turned against each other by a Pavlovian "food machine" that rewards violence. I won't give away the ending, but alas, adult readers will probably quickly figure out what's going on. As a teen, though, it made a real impression, and its message is maybe more relevant now than ever.
