https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29780253-born-a-crime
Normally, if I hadn't already lost interest by that point, I'd just break down and buy it, but I'm generally not a big memoir reader, so I was reluctant to spend money on a book I wasn't sure would be my thing.
And my husband and I are currently laughing our way through the audio version, too.I just couldn't put this book down.
I'd rate this 4.5 stars.I was really surprised when Trevor Noah was named Jon Stewart's successor on  The Daily Show . I inherently knew that they wouldn't pick someone with a sense of humor and style identical to Stewart's, but I felt that Noah was so different that his selection meant the show would have a really different feel, which might not appeal to long-time fans of the show. But I always root for the underdog, so as he was getting savaged by critics and fans in his first few days on the
Yet while their lives dealt with crushing poverty, violence, and racism from all sides, his deeply religious mother never let anything bother her, or stop her from raising her son to know he was loved, and to know that he truly could accomplish anything he wanted, despite all of the obstacles in his way."She taught me to challenge authority and question the system.
But Noah was a remarkable child, and while he exasperated, frightened, and upset his mother from time to time, she knew he would accomplish great things one day (as soon as he stopped putting cornrows in his hair and hanging out with those awful hoodlums he called friends).I enjoyed this book and learned a lot about apartheid, which I really didn't know much about.
These stories, beautifully written, are set in a world quite like our own but at the same time utterly different.
Who goes to church three times on Sunday to Black, White and Coloured ones?
Two worlds collide, black and white, and neither understand why the other is so offended.
(view spoiler)[If you'd really like to know and aren't going to read the book, IM me.
Because of the exposure of the video the black figure appeared black but the coloured one, Trevor, appeared white.
This is a fascinating book that will take you deep into the world of the non-white life of South Africa mostly since apartheid ended.
If you're going to read this book, definitely listen to the audio version.
Trevor Noah is one of the most effortless narrators I've ever listened to.
Not only that, but you get to learn quite a bit about pre- and post-Apartheid South Africa from the perspective of someone who hypothetically shouldn't exist.
I was instantly intrigued by his story, not only because of this unique perspective but also because he is such a wonderful storyteller.I do think the chronology of the book was a bit strange at times—one chapter would be from his childhood and then the next would jump to his teen years, and back.
Before I start my review, I want to take a minute to praise Trevor Noah's stand up shows because they're one of the few that don't rely on being ignorant. His shows are one of the enlighten ones focusing on race, white-privilege, police brutality, hate speech, prejudice, and so much more.I’d highly recommend watching a few before reading this riveting memoir. In Born a Crime, Trevor Noah takes us on a journey from his childhood being born a crime in apartheid South Africa. Trevor was born to a w
Before I start my review, I want to take a minute to praise Trevor Noah's stand up shows because they're one of the few that don't rely on being ignorant.
It is also the story of that young man's relationship with his fearless, rebellious, and fervently religious mother: his teammate, a woman determined to save her son from the cycle of poverty, violence, and abuse that would ultimately threaten her own life.Side note: Patricia Nombuyiselo Noah - his mother - was a powerhouse, a strong woman in every sense.
The way my mother always explained it, the traditional man wants a woman to be subservient, but he never falls in love with subservient women.
If this book interests you, I urge you to listen to the audiobook!It was fascinating learning about his life growing up as a mixed race child in pre- and post-Apartheid South Africa.
Though I learned vague facts about Apartheid in high school history classes, this was the best lesson I've had on the subject.The book skips around non-chronologically, which confused me at times as he introduces aspects of his earlier years later on in the story, but I remained captivated.
I was so into it that, instead of working on the paper that's due soon or studying for my upcoming exam, I read this book in less than 24 hours.
The ongoing - ongoing - and ONGOING ....dramatic stories Trevor shares about his childhood --were life lesson building blocks.
Trevor did the building!!
Poverty, abuse, Religious upbringing, crazy chaotic living conditions, a powerhouse one-of-kind mother....Trevor is a thriving survivor!!!!We also get an excellent intimate understanding: .....of the rigid former policy of segregating and economically and politically oppressing the non-white population....from the direct experience of Noah being born in South Africa during the laws of apartheid.A child who was often guided to play indoors, ( hiding), a 'positive' lifetime result 'today' is that Trevor says he can sit and enjoy his own company for days on out.
sadness of course - tragic times -horrific injustice.....but Trevor Noah is warm - charming -filled with love and light!!!!
Five HUGE Stars for Trevor Noah's book!
Trevor narrates his stories of growing up in South Africa.
I highly recommend the audio version.
He made this book come to life with his narration.
This would actually make a good first listen.I just became a fan recently of his and thought I'd give the book a shot.
I learned a lot about apartheid and I learned a lot about South Africa.
I also learned some gross facts like the poorest of people eat worms.
Highly recommended to fans of his and/or people who just want to learn about life in South Africa during apartheid.
The author is very charismatic and if you're going to read this book, I would recommend the audiobook since he narrates it!
“I soon learned that the quickest way to bridge the race gap was through language.” Where do I even begin to explain how incredible this autobiography was?!Trevor Noah brought this story to life, but ultimately, it was his mother that was the main character, the MVP, of this book.You all know what this book is about: Trevor Noah is narrating his account on being raised in Apartheid South Africa. The issues growing up as a mixed-race child and a mother who defied all societal standard and called
Where do I even begin to explain how incredible this autobiography was?!Trevor Noah brought this story to life, but ultimately, it was his mother that was the main character, the MVP, of this book.You all know what this book is about: Trevor Noah is narrating his account on being raised in Apartheid South Africa.
The issues growing up as a mixed-race child and a mother who defied all societal standard and called bullshit before anyone even dared do it.
Though his world was completely different from our own, Trevor Noah still managed to make it relatable.
His performance adds to fantastic storytelling.The stories from his childhood reminded me of something Art Linkletter said about the children chosen for the “Kids Say the Darndest Things" segment of his show.
The teachers would laugh and send me the rascals.” Not that that little Trevor was a bad kid, he is just one of those people that belong on a stage.
Patricia Nombuyiselo NoahWhile this is Trevor's story, but it very much a loving tribute to her.
But when white people pray to a guy who turns water into wine, well, that’s just common sense....My mom didn’t want my mind polluted by movies with sex and violence.
It was really a great read!As background to Trevor Noah's story, I want to provide a few tidbits of information."Apartheid" was an American concept that was applied to the South African landscape.
The South African soldiers, the majority being from the Afrikaner community who joined Great Britain were all descendants of the French, Dutch and German.
If you’re the type of person who wants a book that can make you laugh and cry in public, this is the one you’ve been looking for.— Tasha Brandstatterfrom The Best Books We Read In February 2017: http://bookriot.com/2017/02/28/riot-r...
It’s just set in a world that’s very far from my own.–Kristina Pinofrom The Best Books We Read In January 2017: http://bookriot.com/2017/02/01/riot-r...
I may be frustrated recently with his call for other people of color to be moderate in their reactions to the incoming administration, but getting a bit of insight into the pain and tragedy he suffered at the hands of similarly-minded people was informative for me and has changed the way I view him.— Elizabeth Allenfrom The Best Books We Read In December 2016: http://bookriot.com/2017/01/03/riot-r...
Born a Crime Stories from a South African Childhood by Trevor Noah is such an interesting look into the life of a talented young man.
He describes the horrible laws and society he is born into and the way he is looked at in his society.
Through it all, he keeps his humor and love alive and shares it with us in this wonderful book.
He has a good heart and it comes out in this book.
Great job Trevor, we love you!
Partly because I adore Trevor Noah as a person.
Partly because I love Trevor Noah's voice & appreciate when authors tell their own stories, both fictional and non-fictional.
& Partly because I want to try and get more comfortable with reads like this that are outside of my normal realm.
In this Trevor tells many stories from his childhood in South Africa.
I would very much recommend this for everyone, even if you don't particularly like Trevor Noah!
My friend Michael talks about how much he enjoyed the book in his review, despite not being the author's biggest fan.
Born a Crime Funny guy- The very charming Trevor Noah********************************************* "People love to say, “Give a man a fish, and he’ll eat for a day. Teach a man to fish, and he’ll eat for a lifetime.” What they don’t say is, “And it would be nice if you gave him a fishing rod.” That’s the part of the analogy that’s missing." Trevor Noah*********************************************By the time Trevor Noah was born in 1984, Apartheid, the system that institutionalized segregation an
He explains how it was used to create fissures among the black population, and give us an insider's perspective of the real life consequences it had in the lives of millions of people.My sense is that this book was written with a Western audience in mind, so he takes the time to compare Apartheid to similar repressive movements in other parts of the world, such as the removal of Native Americans, European Colonialism and Slavery and the Jim Crow era in America.On this topic he remarks:
“Language, even more than color, defines who you are to people.” Trevor Noah, Born a Crime: Stories From a South African ChildhoodTrevor Noah's BORN A CRIME is hilarious, heartbreaking and always told through a sympathetic lense.
Noah's stories sketch his life, with his mother, in South Africa.
BORN A CRIME deals with the horrors of both pre & post-apartheid South Africa.
BORN A CRIME is as much a loving memoir to Noah's mother, Patricia as it is his own story.
Resulting from this crime was Trevor Noah ~~neither black nor white ~~ yet born into a world that hated him for the color of his skin.
Born a Crime: Stories from a South African Childhood by Trevor Noah is a 2016 Spiegel & Grau publication.
I’ve been a fan of Trevor Noah since he started hosting ‘The Daily Show’, but after reading this book, I’m an even bigger fan.
So, while this book is a memoir centered around Trevor’s childhood memories, and is an enlightening peek into the culture of South Africa, what I took away from this book was how much his mother loved him, how her parenting influenced him, made him strong, taught him respect, and protected him from serious missteps.
I think, in his way, this book is not only a collection of Trevor’s vivid childhood memories and experiences, it’s an ode to his mother.
I knew, of course, of the way apartheid worked, and the extreme division and misery it created, but I did not know of the many different classifications that existed within African communities themselves, that "colored" people, as Noah describes those of mixed race, were not included in black communities or white communities, and that he, being the son of a white man and a black woman, never felt he fit in properly.
Segregation and racism exist everywhere, and therefore people must collectively work against it to create societies that value tolerance and diversity.This was a well-written, thought-provoking book and I would recommend it to fans Trevor Noah, or even those who have never heard of him, but what to be entertained, and learn something in the bargain.Find more reviews and bookish fun at http://www.princessandpen.com
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestI consider myself an unofficial expert on celebrity memoirs. I haven't read all of them (although I would like to - even the stupid ones, because I am incredibly nosy and devour celebrity gossip the way other people devour Dorritos or fake news), but I've read a fair amount, and they usually follow a typical narrative arc. In BORN A CRIME, Trevor Noah takes that arc, flattens it out, and beats you over the head with it.I love Trevor Noah. I
I haven't read all of them (although I would like to - even the stupid ones, because I am incredibly nosy and devour celebrity gossip the way other people devour Dorritos or fake news), but I've read a fair amount, and they usually follow a typical narrative arc.
That could have been really ugly - but it wasn't; it was a somewhat civil discourse between two opposing views, about why the political beliefs of a certain demographic can be incredibly problematic.When I found out that this Trevor Noah person, this cool political cucumber, had a memoir out, I immediately put myself on hold for it at the library.
Not so, here.Trevor Noah's memoir is not like other memoirs because he doesn't talk about his "famous" life at all.
Overall, Born a Crime is a fascinating story, but the loose editing and too casual a writing style meant it lacked narrative cohesion for me, so it's a solid 3 star review.
And the ending feels less like a natural ending and more like Noah ran out of steam (though the final story of the attempted murder of his mother is powerful and scary and was probably hard to write).Ultimately if you're a fan of Trevor Noah, or are interested in a unique perspective that unites childhood under and after apartheid with larger historical and social context of South Africa, Born a Crime is a solid choice.
I really liked this book about Trevor Noah's childhood in South Africa.
But fortunately I had Trevor Noah's book downloaded, and heard about the horrible conditions of apartheid.
The great thing about language is that you can just as easily use it to do the opposite: convince people that they are the same.
However, if the person who doesn't look like you speaks like you, your brain short-circuits because your racism program has none of those instructions in the code.""I learned to use language like my mother did.
I gave the audio a 30 second sample and, impressed by Noah's decision to narrate his own tale, decided to take a small gamble on the audiobook.It's lovely when a gamble pays off, isn't it?Look, I'm not going to spend a whole lot of time waxing lyrical about this book, I'm just going to give it to you straight: listen to this one.
Noah's lived in a way and world that few of us can imagine, and he's cobbled together a series of stories about his time in South Africa that all oddly fit together into a great overarching tale.
Born a Crime is a collection of stories from Trevor's life with a generally linear timeline.
My mother did that for me, and with the progress I made and the things I learned, I came back and created a new world and a new understanding for her.
He describes his mother as a rebel and I loved reading about how she subverted the system!
Her short story collection Slipping is coming out in November, which features some stories about South African culture.
He was just Robert to Trevor, someone who was nice to him on Sundays and Christmas holidays, and on all those days when he was not giving in to hungry black women his Swiss, precious, and fair sperm.I did not fully comprehend his mother's character as well.
Throughout the book, the way her mother raises him it sounds like his mother is white trapped in a black body: 'clean your room' 'do the dishes' 'help me in the kitchen.' Now when one looks at the world around him; his grandparents, cousins, neighbors, I did not understand where his mother's values were coming from.
A three-part collection of eighteen personal essays, Born a Crime recollects stories about Trevor Noah's coming-of-age in South Africa under apartheid, as the biracial son of a single Xhosa woman.
The memoir-in-essays centers on Noah's relationship with his mother, but it spans a vast range of topics, from the author's experience of his country's racist education system to his brief stint as a DJ while a young adult.
The audio, narrated by the author, was energetic and engaging; Noah's performance brought each of his stories to life, while also helping to mask the fact that the chapters are a bit disjointed.
He stood out as light-skinned in the poverty stricken black neighborhoods, but that didn’t mean that he was spared the poverty or the prejudice faced by anyone who wasn’t white.Noah introduces each of his stories with a little bit of background information on the political climate and culture of South Africa.
Shouldn’t be funny, but it was.But, the story that killed me was the one where he realized just how problematic his friend Hitler’s name is.
I always knew that, yes, life under apartheid was hard, but Noah showed me just how hard, in a very visceral and personal way.
It is less a book about growing up in South Africa than about adolescence, a dysfunctional family and physical abuse.
The central portion of the book deals with the author’s adolescence.
Ending on this note a reader may feel drawn to express sympathy and compassion.
My rating is based solely on my evaluation of the book and does not reflect the compassion I came to feel for the family.
I thought the book would have much more about life in South Africa and less about physical abuse in a dysfunctional family.
So the fact that I chose to listen to Born a Crime on audio after reading it in 2016 tells you just how much I enjoyed this memoir.Read by the author (a stand-up comedian and presenter of The Daily show) who does a brilliant job, I highly recommend the audio if you have not already read this fascinating, entertaining and informative book.Can't wait for the second installment being releases next year.I became a chameleon.
It will transport you to a different place and time, teach you a lot about SA and it's people and problems, but all in a fun way.
This has got to be the BEST audiobook I've listened to all year.
Trevor Noah reads his life story with passion, gusto, and unflinching accuracy.
As a listener the best thing is to hear all the names and languages pronounced correctly, as well as hearing the way he imitates his family members.
Touching, humorous, and sad, Trevor Noah finds exactly the right words to talk about poverty, the hatred of apartheid, but most of all the love he has for his mother and the love she has for him.
His mother was ABSOLUTELY phenomenal!
This is a must listen to of all.
