https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13470.Think_on_These_Things
I read this at age 15, while ditching P.E. classes at school. Fair to say that it contributed significantly to my dropping out of school immediately, a choice by which I've not suffered in the least.
All that should be achieved with the effort of this thing called 'mind'.This book is Mr.Krishnamurti's one attempt among countless others that urge one to think on certain important aspects of life.
A fearless, a happily discontented and a free individual is what he wants one to be and only that person can be a truly revolutionary.With such simple language and immeasurable intensity of thought, this book is one of the greatest reads available out there.
I shall recommend this book to one and all; to free thinkers it is a sheer delight and to those who think less it shall give their thought processes a new vitality.
There has been a vast canvas covered in this book. Understanding the nature of the problem then tried to provide a possible solution to those problems. There is a very different approach to tackle any worldly question. Every time I start to read this book I came up with something new. A large sea of ideas floating within this book.
i was introduced to krishnamurti at a time when i was looking for closure in many painful aspects of my life (childhood). in his own way, he sat me down alone, and forced with a gentle push, to examine the quiet truths me all have access to if we slow our mind and open our eyes.he's been a tremendous healer.
He teaches that the purpose of education is freedom of the mind and people should do what they love and not get trapped in materialism.
What strikes me as so ironic is that today higher and formal education is tightly bound with materialism, since so many people who go to college are a few years' gross income in debt by the time they get a degree.
So education and freedom seem deeply divided at this point in time.
Getting a degree means that your freedom is reduced and you are chained by debt.
This books forces you to keep an open mind. It completely changed my line of thinking and my life. I cannot recommend it enough. Just keep in mind that it's going to challenge you. Don't be afraid to consider things you don't believe in, just for the sake of considering them.
Perhaps the coolest Indian ever lived since the Buddha and Mahatma Ghandi. Perhaps.
I have read several Krishnamurti books, among them there have been a few that have made a significant impact in my perception of many things and resonate with me onward in a very profound way; this is one of them...
Wonderfully thought-provoking, sometimes infuriatingly so!Krishnamurti's mission is no less than the purging of the self from our thinking, so this is much more a "how to think" than a "what to do" book. The chapters are structured as Q & A sessions between Krishnamurti and his students which makes them all the more readable. Interestingly, Krishnamurti's teachings do not reduce well to soundbites so I won't quote them here - there's no witty aphorisms - it's his steady, unwavering gaze into the workings of the mind which makes him indispensable.
When I read this book at the age of sixteen, it forever changed my life and perspective. I owe being my own philosopher and teacher to the fundamental wisdom found in this book.
It is this that Krishnamurti says will lead to a revolt because one will be able to see for the first time that it is precisely these pretensions and expectations that cause so much conflict and dissension in society.He is really not asking much, just to watch and live and be in one's own mind.
Krishnamurti is saying that one can experience one's mind by watching, and it will lead to a positive personal transformation.
Krishnamurti posits that individuals have loads of energy that will be destructive if it is not devoted to seeking God, and so society crushes that energy and channels it into meaningless activities.
I believe liberal arts colleges should be giving copies of this book to every prospective student they come into contact with.
One of the many things described is the nature and value of what we would call a liberal arts education in the United States.The book is a transcription of questions and answers between a group of students-and-teachers and the author Jiddu Krishnamurti.
I would characterize the book as a blend of a very readable presentation of Sartre's bad_faith/authenticity/philosophy_of_mind with C.S. Lewis' description in "The Great Divorce" of how the world is already functioning within eternity but we lose perspective of that relationship/we only have to open our eyes to experience a life of joy/ and we serve up our own hell to ourselves.
No wonder Krishnamurti didn't have a huge following.
If you want to have your views challenged, read this man who definitely had one of the best minds of the 21st century.
If you were to categorize him (you shouldn't), Krishnamurti was a Buddhist who overdosed on Buddha.PS (1).
Yes, it's true, Krishnamurti would have HATED this review.
He didn't believe in comparisons and would have blushed reading this five star review.
Krishnamurti was humble, too.
What is there not to like about this man?PS (3) Eckhart Tolle is a fan.
You can read it online.
Life is then a completly integrated process in which there is tremendous joy.
But that can happen only when you are not psychologically depending on anybody, or any society, when there is complet detachment inwardly, for only then is there a possibility of really loving what you do.It does not matter whether you garden, or become a prime minister, or do something else; you will love what you do and out of that love comes an extraordinary feeling of creativness."J.Krishnamurti:Think on these things chap.8
Wow!
Krishnamurti is one of my favorite Indian philosophers.
He gives penetrating observations on everything around us.
Education, life, love, freedom, discipline, the mind, he touches so many subjects.
He gives insight coming from a delicate balance of mind, heart and soul.
Some of his passages still give me chills of realization when I read them.
I have read many of the books from his library, but this is by far the most profound to me.
Although it is an easy read, the messages contained within its pages are heavy with truth and love and may take a while to fully contemplate and absorb...Namaste...
One of the best books I read!! Great narration by Mr.Krishna murti!! Though some of the points are different from what I believe, I liked the way he presented and respect his opinion!! I feel Mr. Krishna murti and swamy vivekananda are like two sides of a coin!! Both have their own perceptions but focus on the same point, inspiring youth and stressing on how to leave fear and achieve goals!!In the middle, few chapters went on with a dull note but on the whole, this is one of the best inspiring books!!
One can never have enough Krishnamurti. He makes one think on these things not because he ordains it but because it is sanity, if one lives and loves honestly.
Bu noktada çocukları erken yaşta uyarmak kadar eğitmenleri de yönlendirmesi açısından çok önemli ve en beğendiğim yönü de bu oldu.Artık bu söyleşileri yapma olanağımız olmadığına göre tavsiyem anne babaların bu kitabı okuyup daha sonra küçük çocuklarına okumaları veya okutmaları.
Tabii ki küçük bir çocuk tüm kitabı okumaktan sıkılacaktır ama okurken sizi ilgilendiren kısımları işaretleyin ve çocuğunuza okuyun derim.
Anne baba olarak kendi yatkınlıklarını çocuklarına dayatıp özgürlüklerini kısıtlamanın hatası vesaire gibi aydınlatmalar var.
Among the most thoughtful and provocative books I have ever read. Krishnamurti's brilliant mind is revealed in his lectures and responses to school children in India. Absolutely fascinating and a simple, beautiful vision of what is at the roots of what is wrong with the world, and how it can be righted.
Krishnamurti was my first exposure to Eastern ways of thinking. I was having significant difficulties at the time and his words completely changed my perspective. Even today, when I read this book, it takes my breath away. He had a gift for explaining how detachment can bring peace of mind. I am forever grateful for this book.
When my brain turns to mush I read this and everything makes sense again.
Fav in philosophy!
Very powerful book. It points out societal flaws and gives suggestions as to how we may alter our thoughts/behaviors to lead a more meaningful life.
This book will make you think, it's inspiring, although it really goes all over the place. Inspiring without any spiritual overtones - kind of be here now intellectually.
The writer as always getting deep inside the core of the day to day problems lead it's reader as to how any kind of conflict arises what's is structure of any kind of thought The basic underlying principle are 1.
The mind has devised so many ways of distraction be it internet, shopping or some latest flick it's about time that we give some attention to drama going on inside our heads No techniques but just a stilent watcher observing his/her thoughts !!
И в процеса на четене осъзнаваш как ти самият ставаш друг, тоест себе си...И разбираш , че въпросите, чиито отговори търсиш, са точно пред теб...А най-важното нещо, което осъзнаваш накрая е, че няма въпроси, нито отговори...Защото всеки въпрос е отговор и всеки отговор е въпрос...И истината за живота и човека е в сърцето на онзи, който търси, пита, изследва...„Само когато непрекъснато търсите, непрекъснато наблюдавате, непрекъснато изучавате можете да откриете истината, Бог или любовта, а вие не можете да търсите, да наблюдавате и изучавате, не можете да осъзнавате дълбоко, ако се страхувате.
Truth comes into being when your mind and heart are purged of all sense of striving and you are no longer trying to become somebody; it is there when the mind is very quiet, listening timelessly to everything that is happening." (30)(132) talks about being attached to feeling envious, sometimes because you know that everybody else feels that way, and it scares you to break away from it.
Don’t agree with everything in it. However, love the concept of the book, encouraging free thinking
หนังสือกบฏความคิดเปนหนังสือสำหรับคนหนุมสาวทีแตกหนอในวัยกำลังเรียนม.ปลาย หนังสือนีทำหนาทีอยางดีในการบรรยายขอเทจจริงของการศึกษาและสังคมโลก หนังสือเลมนีไมแตกตางจากหนังสือ แดหนุมสาว ของกฤษณมูรติ ทีแปลโดย พจนา จันทรสันติ แตกบฏความคิด แปลโดย เจตน เจริญโท สำนวนการเขียนตางกัน เพราะแปลคนละแบบ ของพจนา จันทรสันติ รับรูการตืนรูของคนหนุมสาวในวัยสงสัย สวน เจตน เจริญโท รับรูการตืนรูโดยการกบฏความคิดและกบฏสังคมโดยรอบขาง แตทังสองเลมกมีแตกตางทีไมเหมือนกัน รับรูรสชาติคนละแบบ แตมาจากหนังสือกฤษณมูรติเลมเดียวกัน แตแปล
หนังสือกบฏความคิดเป็นหนังสือสำหรับคนหนุ่มสาวที่แตกหน่อในวัยกำลังเรียนม.ปลาย หนังสือนี้ทำหน้าที่อย่าง
While there may be holds and voids in Krishnamurti’s theories, ultimately his message of love and search for God are uplifting.The book’s basic premise, reiterated countless times over its 247 pages, is that we should free ourselves of any religion, ideology, belief system or even past experience and view reality with a totally open, unclouded mind.
I can’t help but think Krishnamurti’s own perceptions were clouded by his own experience, in this case of religious strife in his native India.
Those ancestors gave us excellent guideposts to help us on our own quest for Truth.I also was unimpressed with Krishnamurti’s vague prescription for societal revolution.
