https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8843.Airman_s_Odyssey
the best is pure, romantic, adventures of flight in the early 20th century, adventures that remind readers of an era, not so long ago, when to fly, to pilot, was a grand romantic experience, dangerous, transcendent, amazing and beautiful.
but this is mostly the last section of 'flight to arras', the third novel, and you can skip it without much loss...one time, flying southwest from Vancouver or Seattle to Lihue, Kauai, we happened to takeoff just before sunset, and as we flew i remember watching from my window seat, the longest sunset i might ever see, a feeling of being suspended in sunset golden light, a feeling of magical transport, the flight smooth, unhindered by turbulence or crowded by clouds...
I loved it when I was twelve years old, but I was a rather odd child, fond of day-dreaming and lying on the grass watching the clouds for hours on end.
That must have been the girl who adored this book; decades later, I find I'm a bit too impatient and busy to be fully immersed in books like this one.Wind, Sand and Stars is a loosely connected series of rambling essays with no plot to speak of.
The translator of my edition Lewis Galantière captured the feeling of the French version of Wind, Sand and Stars than Stuart Gilbert did with Night Flight.
I was more interested in the last story in the book, Flight to Arras because I thought it would compliment my hobby of building model airplanes.
I had read on one of my favorite time wasting model building websites that this kit was a model of the very aircraft St. Exupery flew in Flight to Arras.
I realized that "II/33" was Roman numeral two, hence "II/33" was actually "2/33 "and was elated to learn that the model plane which has been waiting to be built since 2006 is truly the one from St. Exupery's story, Flight to Arras.
Every situation depicted contains standard impressions, characters, settings, etc.
What sets Exupery above others is his connection with mankind, their place in the world, and his ability to step through his thoughts to arrive at logical, philosophical conclusions .
Exupery is poet, philosopher, storyteller, all at once.
Example of the poet:"The diurnal death of the world is a slow death.
Earth and sky begin to merge into each other.
The earth rises and seems to spread like a mist.
The first stars tremble as if shimmering in green water.
I shall have a long wait before I witness the soundless frolic of the shooting stars.
This edition contains three St. Exupery books: Flight to Arras; Wind, Sand and Stars; and Night Flight.
All three are memoirs of some of St. Exupery's adventures as a pilot assigned to postal mailing routes during the early days of flight.
Wind, Sand and Stars is the most philosophical memoir in the collection whereas Night Flight and Flight to Arras are more exciting.
His writing may be fun for those who crave adventure but it's also a real treat for any student of human nature to read St. Exupery's profound self-examinations and thoughts about life.
Throughout this collection of novellas from Saint-Exupery, we see the value of a single life.
The pilot is often considered a disposable resource in war or in air mail, but Exupery's heightened sense of awareness, his reflections on the meaning of life, his acute observations, his sense of beauty, show us the sanctity inherent in all individual lives even as they serve causes greater than themselves.
Wind, Sand, and Stars is the best novel of the bunch for its storytelling, poetic language, and observations on human nature.
But the entire book is full of outstanding reflection.
These books, and other writings of de Saint-Exupery, have informed my life. I read them first for university French Lit class, and they still have pride of place on my bookshelf 52 years later. Mandatory reading and re-reading for the development (and maintenance) of one's humanity, one's humility, and one's capacity for awe.
Unless you are a pilot or love flying stories, this isn't the book for you. But if you are those things, then you will likely love the poetic descriptions and artistry of flight in this book. Be prepared for some old style use of language and get out your dictionary.
Three novellas written on the early 1940s by the author of The Little Prince. As a pilot flying the early exotic routes of Africa and South America without modern navigational aides, he combines vivid descriptions of places and times with reflection about the human spirit. I was led to this classic when browsing Patagonia on the web. And thanks to the Alberta library system, I was able to borrow and enjoy it.
Or, to be more precise:-Wind, Sand, and Stars: 4.5 stars. Pretty amazing, especially if you're a 12- to 16-year old boy, or still have the adventure sensibilities of one.-Night Flight: 3 stars. Positively eh.-Flight to Arras: first two-thirds, 4 stars; second third, two stars. A strong beginning and middle, bogged down by an icky torrent of schmaltz at the end...
I was let down; I found my copy in an old used bookstore in Kalisbell, MT. As a HUGE The Little Prince fan, I was waiting for Saint-Exupery to live up to my expectations and I just didn't like it. If anything, this book was written for the "grownups".
This book is a collection of three of Saint-Exupéry's works: "Wind, Sand, and Stars," "Night Flight," and "Flight to Arras." I loved the first, and disliked the second so much I stalled on the book. I'll probably, eventually, come back to read the third.
I have read this again and again. It is a collection of St-Ex's three books: Flight to Arras; Wind, Sand and Stars; Night Flight. These books show the dreamy nature of flight and are often autobiographical sketches of some amazing stories.
Well, this is three books actually. Some of it is three star worthy, some of it four or five stars...
Beautiful writer, beautiful thinker.
Sublime. My second reading and it's still wonderful.
