https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/541024.More_Than_Human
When they do, they begin to realize that together they constitute a new form of life—homo gestalt, they call themselves—which might just be the next step in human evolution.This is an extraordinary, resonant book.
Best of all, it ends with a surprising revelation that leaves the reader with the conviction that there is indeed hope for the future without in any way diminishing the challenges and the loneliness of the individual human life.Sturgeon was always an accomplished writer, but in this book he outdid himself.
This is one of the science fiction books that—even now, more than fifty years later--needs to be read.
Sturgeon has lured you into his most renowned work and you are held by this quiet, out of the way brilliance that compelled you siren-like from the bottom shelf of the used bookstore.
Dick in its unabashed inimitability, More Than Human evokes a standard whereby science fiction ceases to be a genre, defies label and containment, and becomes simply a very good story.
Heinlein, Sturgeon has crafted a story unique in its time and place and yet one that heralds a greater creation.
Sturgeon quietly, but confidently ushers in a new age of speculative fiction.
More Than Human is just a very well written book and defies an easy categorization.
This section is a little like a sci-fi horror story while exploring the themes of prejudice and misanthropy; how nothing good ever stem out of them.PART THREE Morality:The narrative is told in the third person again for this concluding section of the book.
The theme of moral and ethical responsibilities is the focus of this last section, with lots of cool psychic battles to keep the narrative lively.Every time I read this book (years apart) I find something new to appreciate.
Were I to take an in-depth Sci-Fi course I would definitely want to explore the deeper meanings of this book, lots of layered psychological here. I'm already reserving it for a re-read. It is disturbing and fascinating, the story of an...evolved group of creatures, the only way I can describe it. Just try it, it's short but packed with wonderment.
The story does contain one authentic science-fictional device – an antigravity generator – but this has only peripheral relevance and the author doesn't even bother to make it credible.
Such mumbo-jumbo, good reader, makes up the 'scientific' content of this 'science fiction classic' – justified by one lame paragraph in which the author asserts that credible evidence for such things exists.
I think the answer is: it probably works all right if you're a lonely, disturbed teenager who wants to believe your social ineptitude is a sign that you're different and special.
I have no explanation for my deep love of this novel. It's hokey and ridiculous and overwrought and leaves bushels of interesting themes all over the place, unassembled. It's hopelessly dated. I love it. I connect with these very implausible characters. I revere this author for writing with such careless abandon of form or plot and who still keeps me riveted. This may have been my fourth or fifth reading of this particular novel. It's one of my security-blanket books.
It can be a really small thing that makes that difference and is so intimately intertwined with my personal reading history that it’s essentially meaningless for anyone else.
That’s pretty neat since it’s clear that for Sturgeon that is what makes a human a human, and not just an assemblage of parts.
This moved me, and that brought it out of “liked it” to “really liked it”, because appropriately enough, I guess, it’s our personal emotional reactions, our affective response to something that makes us human.
OK- what to even say about this masterpiece- which it undoubtably is!
For all u fools out there who do not think science fiction can be literature of the highest degree, u obviously haven't read a book like More Than Human- because if this book doesn't blow that dense, dull-witted notion out of your mind, nothing will and u should be publicly shunned forevermore.Written in the 50's and it still didn't seem dated at all!
Anyway, i don't even think i can begin to praise it like it deserves, so i won't.
I'm gonna go find another Sturgeon book to read
I knew before beginning that Sturgeon initially wrote Baby is Three, the middle section of the novel.
The book centers around a number of neglected and abused children who eventually meet and begin to form a gestalt group.
I found the idea fascinating and was blown away by the knowledge that this book was published in 1953.
First off, reading a book about children who rarely spoke like children but did on occasion act like children worked for me.
I liked the ending and thought it was perfect otherwise.
Sturgeon's prose was beautiful throughout the rest of the book.
I've read this in paperback a couple of times & enjoyed it, but it's probably been 15 or 20 years.
Ellison does some voices well & I can think of a couple of good ones for him.
Ellison read the middle part, "Baby Is Three", the original novella (1952).
Rudnicki read the other 2 parts: "The Fabulous Idiot" & "Morality".
(Great titles!) What a great way to enjoy this classic.Parapsychology was a thing at the time.
IOW, things are what they are, no matter what our current views of psychology might have to say about it.Sturgeon's descriptions were fantastic, almost poetic.
4.0 stars. Ground-breaking science fiction novel that first explored the concept of the "gestalt" consciousness while dealing with emotional issues of identity and fitting in to society. This is on my list to re-read as it has been some time since I read this. Nominee: Hugo (Retro) Award for Best Science Fiction Novel
4.5
His eyes were calm and his face was dead.”The story involves the forming of a "homo gestalt" group organism assembled from various misfit and mistreated children, and the book is broken into three parts, "The Fabulous Idiot", "Baby is Three", and "Morality".
Apparently "Baby is Three" was written first as a novella, and I wonder if anyone has picked up on the idea that the book itself is a cobbled together construct that, in my mind at least, adds up to less than the sum of its parts.
What is the next step in human evolution? Where will we go from here? How will we fundamentally change, as technology continues to emerge. It feels like this is an obsession of a particular time and place. While science fiction has continued to examine how a changing world will alter humans, at their core they seem to remain fundamentally human.Note: The rest of this review has been withheld due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
I'm beginning to notice a pattern; I'm giving five stars to every Sturgeon book I read, it's becomming a habit.
But what else can I do but acknowledge his genius?This is a book of three parts, each part a process of discovery for the reader and at least one of the characters involved who are each trying to find something out about themselves, come into themselves in some way.I've also said before that he seems so far ahead of his time and it once again becomes apparent in this book.
It is a million miles away from most other SF being written at the time.
Somewhat disturbing and deeply thought provoking is a good way to describe this story.
More Than Human is not an easy read. Theodore Sturgeon was never shy about pushing boundaries and trying to shake up a reader's comfortable little world.The theme of the novel is certainly fascinating -- the emergence of a new human species - homo gestalt (though the ending and hints earlier in the book suggest we've always been it). But Sturgeon left me wanting more - it ended too soon and too patly.I enjoyed it well enough and am interested in reading more of his work but I don't think I can recommend this one unless you're already a Sturgeon fan.
"...they were the last words she had said, and they hung shimmering in the silence" (p.121).
Here's the plot in two sentences: the first six - Lone, Janie, and the rest - make up "the next step upward...a psychic evolution instead of a physical" (p.175); together they are Homo Gestalt.
The seventh - Hip - saves Homo Sapiens from extinction by the mind of Homo Gestalt.If I'm making the plot sound straight-forward, in a way it is.
This is a book worth wrapping your mind around.
It's difficult to decide if this book (a "fix-up" novel) deserves 4 or 5 stars.
Other times, it's like he's channeling J.D. Salinger.Initially, Sturgeon wrote a story called "Baby is Three," published in Galaxy Science Fiction in the early 1950s.
That story is the heart of the novel, and the most engaging part of it.
Sturgeon sandwiched "Baby is Three" between two additional sequences in order to to expand it into a novel.
Although "More Than Human" is a science fiction/fantasy book, it is also much more than a simple genre piece.
The first Gestalt character I had ever read was in Daniel O'Malley's The Rook.
I was completely blown away by this odd and frightful concept, the sheer alienness in human form.
O'Malley's Gestalt was born quadruplets (three male, one female), all mentally one organism.
Part of the joy of reading Classics is learning where your favorite contemporary authors got their ideas.
O'Malley certainly read Sturgeon.
The most fascinating concept Sturgeon raised is if perhaps special needs people are meant to be part of a greater whole.
Maybe instead of our norm of uniform circles and squares they are jigsaw pieces, never meant to function individually.
I liked it but I thought there would be more to this story than there was.Written back in the 50's, so it's a bit dated but not so much you can't enjoy it, this is the story of the evolution of the human race.
We've just begun to move away from being a solitary creature to one where a group comes together to act as one.
This is the story of how they came together and learned what they can do as a group.
The book ends right at a big revelation to the group.
A fair bit of the narrative seemed to go over my head, and I have to admit that there were a few times that I thought maybe I was not smart enough to fully appreciate this book.
But then, inevitably, everything would come to light and I came out of my confusion right alongside the characters.Original and intriguing, I will be thinking about this book for some time.
More Than Human has all the right pieces to become a favorite book of mine, but I think it may take a while for me to understand the awesome concepts put forth by Sturgeon.
When the white guy finishes using their (admittedly awesome) skills he says "beat it." I'm sure that at the time, this didn't come off as totally oppressive, since this guy was pointedly waaaay less racist than the other people in the society around him, in the book.
However, reading it today is uncomfortable and disappointing.So, I don't really recommend this one, unless you're very interested in gestalt theory, paranormal abilities, hive or group minds, the future of human evolution, or, I dunno...
sci fi novels of historic interest which are well-intentioned and progressive for their time, but unfortunately racist by today's standards?
If only the characters were relatable; if only emotion were not splattered across the page in the form of adverbs; if only the plot were interesting and thought-provoking instead of self-indulgent and overly-descriptive; then, and only then, might the book have been something other than boring.The second part, along with the last few pages of the final chapter, are the sections worth reading. Everything else is dull filler.
*Bayıldım bu kitaba. Harika fikirler var. Üstelik karakterler evren ile aşırı uyumlu. Yazarın kullandığı yöntemi de sevdim. Başta karışık gibi geliyor ama her şey bir anda oturdu ve acayip bir doyum hissi ile kapattım kitabı.** Sturgeon bekle beni geliyorum.
This is a great science fiction novel and I feel bad only giving it three stars, but the story just wasn't my cup of tea. Classic case of "it's not you, it's me."
Y'know, More Than Human is a decent piece of writing - but it's a very awkward read, and unfortunately dated.
I like Sturgeon's stuff - I think he was on the cusp of being something truly different and revolutionary.
More Than Human, in fact, probably was pretty revolutionary at the time of its publication...
So, clearly, I don't blame Sturgeon for my finding his novel dated.
It was abrupt.
The characters were excellent - I found them so much more compelling than I did the abrupt strangeness of the conclusion.
Anyway, More Than Human is okay.
MORE THAN HUMAN. (1953). Theodore Sturgeon. ****. This early novel of science fiction was included in the Library of America’s recent publication of “American Science Fiction 1953-1956.” It contained no rocket ships or interplanetary travel, but focused on the future of mankind as it might be influenced by a strange combination of a unique set of forces represented by a collection of what we might call damaged individuals. The main characters in this tale include “a girl, two tongue-tied Negroes
This early novel of science fiction was included in the Library of America’s recent publication of “American Science Fiction 1953-1956.” It contained no rocket ships or interplanetary travel, but focused on the future of mankind as it might be influenced by a strange combination of a unique set of forces represented by a collection of what we might call damaged individuals.
The main characters in this tale include “a girl, two tongue-tied Negroes, a mongoloid idiot and a man with a pointed face.” Each of these characters lack one or more outward skills normally possessed by most humans, but each has some paranormal property which, together with the other members of the group, make them a super power.
In addition, the premise and development of the story are so imaginative--this book is often categorized as science fiction, but that label is both too limiting and not quite on the mark.
If it is science fiction, it is much more Ray Bradbury than Isaac Asimov--the imaginative explorations are all on the human side of the equation, rather than the technological.
When you read this (and you really should), do yourself a favor and don't read anything about it--including the synopsis from the book jacket.
You just can't tell someone exactly what this book is about without giving away the most powerful part of the reading experience.
PART ONE: The Fabulous Idiot ☆☆☆☆PART TWO: Baby Is Three ☆☆PART THREE: Morality ☆☆
A spoiler-free review of an undiscussable bookThe first page is an enigma, the second page is a surprise, the third page is a piece of the puzzle, and so on.
Important details are passed over, only to come back later.
Characters disappear and reappear at different stages of development.
It is also about passing through stages of awareness, so it's logical that the narrative itself starts in a state of claustrophobic ignorance.I figured out where it was headed about halfway through part 3, so the climax lost some of its power for me.
