https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1024939.The_Lady_Vanishes
Novela de misterio con una trama sencilla pero que me ha resultado muy adictiva.
Reconozco que la resolución del caso no me ha sorprendido porque vi venir lo que pasaba, aun así me parece una novela muy disfrutable y amena que me ha mantenido en tensión hasta el final.
Otro aspecto que me gusta de la novela es la duda que siembra la autora en el lector sobre los hechos ocurridos, no digo más porque creo que es mejor entrar en la novela con pocos datos.
La recomiendo a todos los que disfruten con el género de misterio.
One of my favorite Hitchcock movies, and arguably his best British film, is The Lady Vanishes.
It is a droll mix of humor and mystery concerning the disappearance of a old British lady on a train in Europe.
Iris, another younger British woman, is the only one who remembers her and everyone else says the old woman doesn't exist.The Wheel Spins by Ethel White is the novel on which The Lady Vanishes is based on.
It works best as a historical oddity for those who are tracing the British mystery from Wilkie Collins to Agatha Christa, of which Ethel White seem to be the bridge.
Instead of being deep and ovoid in shape, it was a winding pale-blue mere, with shallow rushy margins.I'm pretty sure by now that the lady who is about to vanish is Iris, although what wheels spinning has anything to do with a girl lost in the mountains I don't know.
I had almost forgotten that someone had to vanish, now I'm trying to figure out who it is, Iris still seems like the best choice, especially when this happens the next day at the train station: The crowd on the platform had increased, although the express was not due for another twenty- five minutes, even if it ran to time.
Yes. It was certainly the right book at the right time.
There is a Hitchcock film which I haven't seen, but of all directors, Hitchcock would certainly have been the right one for this.
Of course, it's all plot and very little characterization, but even if only occasionally, that's just the right thing to be reading.I like the older stuff.
I don't know if I'll find time for more of this author, but I wouldn't be opposed to it in the least.
In a setting of foreigners and strangers on the train, she meets another English woman, Mrs Froy, and finds comfort in her companionship.
Iris had a slight accident on her way to the train, a head injury, and she is glad to be with someone to look after her.
She awakens after a nap to find Mrs Froy gone and when she asks about her, no one else on the train remembers seeing her.
With everyone telling her she's imagining it due to her head injury, she begins to wonder herself if there really is a Mrs. Froy.
I adore 'The Lady Vanishes'; it is easily one of my favourite films.
I also love discovering forgotten authors who have fallen by the wayside for one reason or another.
Imagine my delight then when I found a Kindle copy of Ethel Lina White's collected works, including The Wheel Spins, the novel which Hitchcock's film was based upon.The Wheel Spins is remarkably slick.
White moves from one character to the next so fluidly, and her writing is strong.
Whilst Hitchcock's film adaptation follows White's plot relatively well, there is so much depth within the novel; the backstories of many of the secondary characters are given.
Mid-way on their journey, Miss Froy disappears and Iris cannot make anyone believe that the woman ever existed, let alone that she has vanished.
And it takes a good half of the book to get to the real action--the disappearance of Miss Froy.
There is good build-up of Iris's frustration and her feeling that perhaps she really is mad (as suggested by several passengers) She is far more on her own than in the movie--in the book, she appeals to a professor and his young friend, a linguist, but neither of them truly believe her the way Gilbert does in the film.
Grazie, Ethel White ( e Alfred Hitchcock, Michael Redgrave, Cybill Shepherd, Ian Carmichael ...): sei come una buona medicina. Ogni tanto rileggere la tua leggerezza e il tuo humor allevia le pene quotidiane. (rilettura agosto 2017)
3.5/5
I listened to the unabridged BBC Audiobooks recording, narrated by Finty Williams, who reads clearly and with great range.Published in 1936 when the author was sixty years old, this novel was released as a film two years later, directed by Alfred Hitchcock.
That's just a guess, but, inasmuch as the book reveals she had a real awareness of cinema, and inasmuch as Hitchcock had actually used a Disney cartoon in the middle of a movie he made in 1936 (the cartoon being "Who Killed Cock Robin'", which Hitchcock featured in SABOTAGE), I don't think it far-fetched that this book was written with a movie release in mind.I stress it is a very good character study and that it is, indeed, suspenseful.
(first published 1936) Adapted to film: http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0030341/?...I was reminded about this book when it was mentioned in a quiz question at FunTrivia.com.My Netflix record shows that I rated the film 5 stars on 5/30/2010.
I guess it's because the titles are similar.
See my review of that book at: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...There are several film versions of this book:1938: Starring: Margaret Lockwood, Michael Redgravehttp://www.imdb.com/title/tt0030341/?...https://dvd.netflix.com/Search?oq=&am...https://www.amazon.com/Lady-Vanishes-...1979: Starring: Elliott Gould, Cybill Shepherd, Angela Lansburyhttp://www.imdb.com/title/tt0079428/?...https://www.amazon.com/dp/B009WGTKYU/...2013: Starring: Tuppence Middleton, Keeley Haweshttp://www.imdb.com/title/tt2183152/?...https://dvd.netflix.com/Movie/The-Lad...https://www.amazon.com/Lady-Vanishes-...1/13/17 - JAN 13, 2017 - TODAY I RENTED THE 1938 VERSION FROM AMAZON WITH MY PROMO CREDITS.
THIS VERSION STARS MARGARET LOCKWOOD, MICHAEL REDGRAVE & DAME MAY WHITTY.
I was expecting this classic 1936 missing person novel to be so predictable that it would fail to hold my interest. I was pleasantly surprised. Although the solution to the mystery was telegraphed rather early in the story and I anticipated a happy ending, White created such fantastic atmosphere that despite myself, I was on the edge of my seat reading it. 3.5 stars
After several less-than-stellar White novels, this one comes back up close to the standard of Some Must Watch. Thoroughly enjoyed it.
Iris Carr boards a train in Europe where she meets Miss Froy, an English governess. Soon Miss Froy cannot be found. The other passengers do not seem bothered by the disappearance and begin thinking Iris suffers delusions. An imposter appears, but Iris recognizes the facial discrepancies, and realizes a conspiracy is afoot and Miss Froy's life endangered. I watched Hitchcock's take on this several years ago, so the film came to mind as I read it. The book is as excellent as the film.
Miss Froy, another Englishwoman, takes Iris under her wing and carries her off to have tea in the dining carriage.
When she awakes, Miss Froy has gone, and the other passengers deny all knowledge of there having ever been another Englishwoman in the carriage...This is the book that has been made into more than one version of a film under the title of The Lady Vanishes.
All this makes the book interesting reading, even if it doesn't make Iris a terribly likeable character.Once the mystery begins, White adds an extra dimension to Iris' concern for Miss Froy by making her begin to doubt her own sanity.
I want to do a full review of this soon, but till then, this was an effortlessly suspenseful read, even if you've seen the movie. The more I read Ethel Lina White, the more I come to appreciate her. This one particularly delighted me, not just with its gripping plot but also with the heroine's journey towards repentance and self-sacrifice.
Oh man, this was a mind f*ck!!!! My heart is still racing. So many interesting themes as well with hysteria and womanhood and omg I can't wait to watch the film! I have a sneaking suspicion the book will have aged better than the movie though...
This was really fun! Very much like reading a Hitchcock movie.
A good psychological thriller weakened by a reveal midway through and a too easy, somewhat abrupt ending. The Rosetta edition is also riddled with typos.
This is an enjoyable, quick read. Lots of Agatha Christie similarities, but I actually enjoyed this a lot more.
Il libro non me lo aspettavo altrettanto avvincente e invece è anche migliore del film.
C'è anche un remake del 1979 con Angela Lansbury (visto anche questo.)Inizia con la protagonista, Iris, (una giovane inglese orfana, benestante, sfaccendata e presuntuosa) in vacanza in uno sperduto paesino dei Balcani (sperduto si fa per dire, dato che l'albergo ha la stessa densità di sudditi di Sua Maestà di una qualsiasi cittadina inglese): questa parte rende l'inizio lento ma, come si capisce in seguito, è fondamentale per caratterizzare il personaggio e far comprendere le ragioni per cui è considerata un testimone inattendibile.
Poco más de 24 horas hace que la comencé.
Creo que la publicidad de thriller psicológico no le hace ningún favor porque no tiene nada de thriller.
Pero la acción es reposada y la intriga se transmite por los monólogos interiores de la protagonista.Un tren, una mujer que viaja sola rodeada de gente que no habla su idioma.
Hasta que se topa con otra británica.
Como en "La escalera de caracol", la autora juega con las dudas de la protagonista hasta poner en tela de juicio su cordura.
Pero las protagonistas de White tienen las ideas claras y una determinación de hierro.Novela imprescindible para los amantes del misterio clásico.
It is strange to have enjoyed a book while wanting to punch all of its characters in the face.
Muy bueno.
The prose dragged a bit, but the resolution was quite satisfying.Update: I watched the Hitchcock adaptation, and enjoyed it more than the book.
But you have to give credit - nowadays the whole "person-goes-missing-in-the-middle-of-a-crowded-train/plane/hotel/etc-and-only-the-hero(ine)-seems-to-remember-them" premise is old hat, but I wonder if White invented it with this book?
If so, this must have been a cracking read back in its day.
I still enjoyed it, and Ethel Lina White has a descriptive flair which really enhances the experience.
Her works have recently been "re-printed" via Kindle, and I will make a point of reading more of hew work
Originally published (in 1936) as 'The Wheel Spins', it seems to have been re-issued under the title of the better known Hitchcock film, based on the novel (one of my favourite films). It differs from the film as you'd expect, but the basic premise is the same. Really enjoyed it.
Iris Carr is a young Englishwoman leaving an unnamed eastern European country (called “Bandrika” in the film) by train on the first leg of a return to England.
The rest of the novel follows Iris’ struggles both with her own beliefs as to whether she might have imagined Miss Froy and with the other passengers, particularly a handful of English tourists, attempting to convince them of Miss Froy’s existence.
By adding a few chapters set in England, showing Miss Froy’s parents’ anticipation of their daughter’s return, White assures the reader that Miss Froy does exist, but leaves her ultimate fate unresolved until the end of the book’s penultimate chapter.
FINALLY!
After a slow start, and a whole middle section I debated skipping, I'm finally through to the other side.
Now, after having closed the book, I suppose I am glad to have read it, but I just wish it hadn't felt like such a chore.What kept me going?
Halfway through the book, the author began to give glimpses into the lives of the other passengers.
Once the mystery began to unravel, the story became fuller.
And it's a good thing that it had a more interesting second half, because I had the mystery solved even before the poor woman disappeared.
This book was originally published in 1936 as The Wheel Spins which title is much more appropriate in my opinion to the plot itself. Hitchcock then adapted to the cinema in 1938 starring Margaret Lockwood as Iris Henderson and Michael Redgrave as Gilbert. An electronic version of this movie is available at: Internet Archive
