https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/83406.Murder_Being_Once_Done
This is the 7th book in the Inspector Wexford series by author Ruth Rendell.
I find Ruth Rendell books a little hit and miss and unfortunately for me this was a miss.It was ok but I expect a lot more from the books I read and especially from authors of the pedigree of Ruth Rendell.
Chief Inspector Wexford is on leave in London while recovering from a medical problem and staying with his nephew who is a high ranking police officer.
When a young woman is found murdered in a cemetery and the police are baffled, Wexford feels the urge to help solve the murder.I found this a disappointing read and very nearly gave up on it.
I listened to the audio of this while jogging.
It was a fun way to spend the time.
Clues and red herrings are abundant; I was kept guessing.
I got the impression that Inspector Wexford was a bit out of his usual element.
He's ill, on an incredibly strict diet (no man would be able to manage....heck, I wouldn't be able to manage) and not in his home district.
Despite these elements, this Inspector-on-sick-leave managed to make me want to increase my runs to keep listening.
Ruth Rendell writes a good story, both as Ruth Rendell and as Barbara Vine.
There is no Mike Burden here; however, Wexford has to deal with a different Mike, who is just as arrogant and self-sure as Burden, though at least Burden respects the man he works for.The basic story is thus: Wexford, on 'vacation' in London due to health issues, is staying with a nephew who just so happens to be a police superintendent himself.
(He's on a break!) But try telling a man like Reg Wexford to stay out of an investigation involving a young woman found dead in a mausoleum in an historic, but ruined cemetery.
(The novel's first publication was 1972.) Those same young people, described so vividly by Rendell, are now my age and possibly older.
Originally published in 1972 (the beauty of reading the Wexford canon from the beginning in the early 1960s is enjoying the experience of his relative growth with the times) the book follows the good inspector who's on "holiday" (he's actually on a no-alcohol, no-bad-food, no-stress "diet" to recover his health) and stumbles across a murder investigation and a case of unknown identity.
The chapters begin with quotes from Thomas More's Utopia, which plays a role in the story, lending a a decidedly literary air.Reading Rendell is always more than a pleasure and, although I hesitate to use the word "joy" in connection with her stories, I sit down to read every one of her books with relish.
Read a paperback copy of this book I’ve had sitting around for 33 years.
Before he could interrupt he was told its acreage, the history of every interesting person buried there, and informed that the state of the walls on the eastern side was so bad that soon vandals would be able to enter and plunder at will." This passage gives the reader insight into the characters in a way in which I can really relate.
Then Rendell sends it home for the reader.
"He (Wexford) was experiencing a sensation he had often had before when lectured by someone with an obsession.
would have been below minus in o levels montfort vault would have been taped off as scene of crime as body only discovered 24 hours previously why did mrs dearborn not contact police as girl was killed one the same day as she last saw her daughter why did wexford not ask for a photo of the girl why did he not follow up on scarf when mrs dearborn said it was missing why did he not immediately remember where he had seen the woman with such a significant mole gregson should have been provided with one of the police lawyers - not a phone book only good point - the inscription on the vault.

I like the Inspector Wexford series because of Rendell's incisive writing AND because the characters are not as dark and twisted as in her later novels.
After experiencing an embolism in his eye, Wexford has been placed on a draconian and unrealistic diet/exercise/rest program, enforced by his wife and his relatives in London.
Naturally he is depressed and weakening quickly until a misunderstanding with his nephew on the London police dissolves and he is able to nose about in a nearby murder case.
The murder takes place in Kenbourne Vale Cemetery in London - the cemetery is in a depressed area currently undergoing some gentrification.
I think the Wexford series of mysteries are not Ruth Rendell's best work.
They are set in the 1970s and I found this one very dated in terms of social attitudes...not historical enough to be a period piece, but not really socially relevant to today.In this one, I felt the plot to be rather weak and the characters too stereotyped.
Each chapter is headed by a quote from Thomas More's Utopia but I didn't really see the relevance to the story.
Ruth Rendell has written many fine books, especially when writing as Barbara Vine, but this isn't one of them
This my first Rendell book after passing her by all these years.
Wish i hadn't, if this book is any indication.This is a lightly written mystery with engaging characters.
The mystery is well plugged into a setting that is nearly claustrophobic due to the closeness of all elements in the community adding to the questions that arise.
Adding more is that the hero of the story is supposed to be taking a vacation and Rendell makes full use of this nifty device to add flavor to the story.Rendell's character development is better done here than most writers.
Even side characters are interesting.
This was a re-reading of a book I had ripped through several years ago and while I recalled the outline and settings (settings are very important in some of Rendell's books, including this one) I had forgotten many of the details.
This was a good time and place to re-read it.
I was feeling a bit under the weather for a few days and read it an hour or so at a time concentrating, as I often do when not feeling well, on words and sentences instead of paragraphs and pages even though it was a bit of a page-turner.
An excellent well thought out mystery! I loved every minute reading it and was so glad to be reunited with my old friend inspector Wexford. It had me guessing who the murderer was until the very end. Cudos go to Ruth Rendell and Wexford.
Murder Being Once Done was one of my favourite TV adaptations of Ruth Rendell's Inspector Wexford murder mysteries, mainly because the usually so astute, self-confident policeman is confronted with his own mortality for once rather than just contemplating the lives of those involved in the crime he's investigating.
Recovering from a series illness, Wexford and his wife Dora go to London to stay with Wexford's nephew Howard Fortune and his wife Denise for a month.
Bored out of his scull by the health regime his wife, Dr Crocker and Denise have imposed on him, Wexford initially takes only a fleeting interest in the murder case his nephew is trying to solve.
This was my introduction to Ruth Rendell, and what an introduction it was!I really did enjoy this.
Rendell writes intelligently.
Maybe there is room to make clues a bit more obscure, but then, not all readers cut there their teeth on crime fiction and can smell a clue from a mile away.
Or am I being overly generous to my own talents with reading crime fiction?
Would most readers pick up the clues?
I don't know.
I know I would think something like that, but I have been led to believe that men do not think in such ways.

La recensione completa su Filomena scrive...Che dire di questo giallo, non mi aspettavo niente di diverso da ciò che ho letto: una storia piacevole, ben scritta e argomentata, personaggi ben caratterizzati, scorrevole ed esaustiva.Non sono un'esperta di gialli, ma devo dire che questo racconto è scritto estremamente bene, in poche pagine i tanti personaggi trovano una giusta collocazione. Insomma tanta "roba" magistralmente mescolata a creare una storia che nella sua tragicità è verosimile e reale più di quanto mi sarei aspettata.
This book was truly hilarious!
I really liked it, much more than the other Ruth Rendell book I read when I was studying for the bar.
(N.B. That entire summer still remains a really vivid memory in my head, and I specifically remember laying in bed at 3 a.m. in the stifling heat with my barbri books scattered around everywhere trying to finish End in Tears to find out what happened.) Ruth does seem a lot more current/up-to-date/modern than AC, and I didn't realize until the end that this book was written back in the 70s.
I have a new favorite main character who solves crimes, Chief Inspector Wexford.
He is having a crisis of confidence as he recovers from a serious medical problem, and is forced to take a leave from his job.
He and his wife are staying in London with his nephew who is a high ranking police officer and Wexford is so shaken about his usefulness that he needs to help solve the current murder investigation though he is not officially on the case or working.
A young lady is murdered in a cemetery.
Like Inspector Wexford, initially I was completely wrong about the solution to this mystery. Even after he figured it out, however, I was still a couple of twists and turns behind. And yet, I felt that Rendell had played fair with me, and all the clues were there if I had put them together differently. That's the definition of a well-plotted mystery.It's also a typical Rendell in that there is no evil mastermind, no unmotivated villain, only people acting in character (and often from good motives) who end up doing terrible things.
I adore just about every book Ruth Rendell has written. In this London-based murder mystery, of particular value is her revealing portrait of Rendell's signature cop, Reg Wexford. In this story Wexford is not just the clever senior cop, solving the puzzle - he's a real person, complete with self-doubt and foibles. This book sets up the reader for the later Wexford novels, for it is in this "mid-life-crisis" episode that his ongoing personality is established.
Nem annyira tetszett. Nekem egy kicsit lassú volt, nehezen bontakozott ki a történet, és számomra kicsit zavaros volt, ahogyan folyton újabb és újabb lehetőségek merültek fel az áldozat személyére vonatkozóan. Viszont: nagyon tetszett a vidéki detektívfelügyelő nyomozása, ahogyan mozgott a számára ismeretlen londoni közegben, és ahogy végül remekül kiismerte magát.
This is my first Ruth Rendell. It was enjoyable but it was a bit annoying in that the majority of the book followed a story line that was very interesting and engaging but ended up being the side story. The murderer ends up being some one that has a marginal role and feels like an afterthought. I think that for me, mystery writers have to measure up against Phyllis! And not many do!
Dry English wit.
Ruth Rendell always rocks!!
This was the second Ruth Rendell book I've finished. I'm enjoying "getting to know" Inspector Wexford and the way he solves his mysteries.
While nephew Howard and his colleagues do thorough work, none of them have Reg's approach to crime solving.
He gives credence to off-hand remarks, he haunts crime scenes hoping for a huge stroke of luck, he listens in a way that disarms people, he hears with "non-policeman" ears, and earns trust.
This story is so sad, and features - eerily - a cemetery.
I continue to be awe of Ruth Rendell's books.
Yet, crimes, grief, and desperation cross all classes in her stories.
As a note, Rendell has written some non-Wexford books and I think that they are even better than the series.
These are tense psychological stories, often with surprise endings.
Enjoyable as an audiobook, Ruth Rendell reduces Wexford to a stressed out cop with no confidence.
As he (on medical leave) and wife Dora visit a relation, Wexford is vexed by the clever Superintendent of Police.
The investigation goes in one direction while Wexford, bored, starts his own inquiries.First half moved along briskly, but Rendell's red herrings are probably the best part of the novel.
Yet reality sets in and things are different than they first appear.
The usual Wexford book, along with Rendell's familiar observations on young people and the silly things they get into.
I enjoyed this one - Wexford's been sent off for some convalesce (to London of all places) and his country sensibilities and personal style come a cropper when dealing with the Met. It's a charming fish our of water story and allows a much deeper insight into Wexford's psyche, his weaknesses and his approach.
I felt the character developed more here than the entire series to date.
The story is almost secondary, provided only for Reg to bounce off of as we see him fight for relevance, respect and the truth.
Then ending felt rushed and weak but again, it felt secondary to the journey we took.
a body's showed up, Reg has shown himself to be a bit of a paranoid wild (old) man and a crypt takes center stage in two consecutive books(I'm also reading "Lincoln in the Bardo")!
But then, I AM a food addict.Reg seems to be getting nowhere in identifying the dead girl, but it'll be coming soon.
This book is described as a police procedural mystery and that's what it is.After sending poor Reg headlong in the wrong direction(watch those assumptions!) by avoiding having a corpse identified(phony baloney) the author sets him on the right path(VERY convoluted).
I've read other books by Ruth Rendell - years ago, probably still have a few of the paperbacks packed away in boxes.
I had the general sense that I like her mysteries, so I grabbed this audio from my local library.
I listened to it a few months ago, and, quite honestly, I don't remember much about it.
Perhaps that is what happens when one reads so many cozy mysteries.
In reading others' reviews I'm beginning to recall a bit of the plot, but I guess I have to say it was not remarkable enough to stick with me.
I might listen to it again if I run out of new stuff to try.
