https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/290039.Flyy_Girl
I had to read this book for an African American novel class.
The main character, Tracy, allows the boys in her life to treat her the exact same way that her father treats her mother-including allowing abuse and putting up with and unwillingness to commit.
When her mother finally gives her father an ultimatum, Tracy also stands up to the love of her young life who up until now has been coming and going and using her whenever he feels like it.
This really made me think about the fact that young black males aren't the only ones affected by the lack of structure that is becoming normal in the African American family.
This was a great book that prompted me to read other books by the author. Unfortunately, this book was a "one hit wonder" compared to the author's later releases.
He must have done something right to get Flyy Girl on some of the lists I've seen such as "15 Books Every Young Black Woman Should Read".
But since it was recently announced that the trilogy (apparently there are two follow ups) will be hitting the big screen soon, word of mouth must be sending quite a few girls to these books, and perhaps she'll eventually decide on her own to pick it up.
If you see a bit of yourself in a book then the author has done his/her job, and plenty have said just that about Flyy Girl.
I am a honey-caramel with a father from Nigeria and Creole mother but I found it very annoying the only attractive people in the book were light-skin, light eyes, silky curly hair people like Tracy,Patti,Raheema,Mercedes,Beth,Bruce,Timmy,Bob,Charles,(the list is endless) with the expection of Victor.
Interesting dark- skin people like Keith are descibe as "in times of his evilnes, could look like a blue-black red-eyed wino" or consider not good-looking (page 19)Another problem I had with the book was with Tracy being in love Victor.
A Young Girl in FlightThis is a coming of age story during the 80's baby!
I liked that part, and how he described the gear we use to sport!
She enjoys a twist of her newfound freedom since her parents separate and she has gone from hating guys, to loving them!
She's all about fashion, and guys, nothing else seems to matter.
It's a nice story maybe for younger girls and their moms in case you'll forgot what it was like.
I did like that she finally matured past being all engrossed in her looks, her gear, and her jealousy.
I was in my early teens, I believe when a schoolmate recommended this novel to me. Even at that time, I was disturbingly unhappy with the style, composition and overall literary flow of this novel. The main character was unrelatable and even if she were, I couldn't find her likeable or even worthy of empathy. I had a rather difficult time connecting with Tyree's prose and was disappointed with his other projects as well.
one can keep tired of reading about perfect shaped girls, money falls in their laps, long hair, pretty eyes, all the men/boys want them. it's not realistic. yes this is just entertainment, but it was boring.
This book was good. I gave it 4 stars because it was another typical book about a hard headed black girl going through family troubles, having sex, picking the wrong dude and ending up with nothing. Even though Im tired of hearing this same concept the book was good.
Enlightening, Realistic, Page-Turner!!! Excellent Read! I Loved It!
I think this book is very interesting. It has so many details. I can relate to it because I am a teen dealing with the decisions and consequences of life. I love this book, and think anyone in their teenage years.
This was pretty good. Some parts did drag and I feel like Tracy could have learned her lesson at a more gradual pace. I love the inclusion of Afro-centric elements. Especially Tracy's poem. It was beautiful. Interesting to see where the rest of her story goes. Full review to come.
FINALLY READ THIS BOOK IT WAS GOOD. . . AT TIMES TRACY GOT ON MY FUCKING NERVES IT'S LIKE THE OLDER SHE GOT THE MORE SELF CENTERED SHE BECAME SHE WAS SEEING DUDE AFTER DUDE IT WAS HARD FOR ME TO KEEP UP . . . NETHER LESS THE BOOK WAS GOOD AND I ENJOYED IT...
This book never disappoints. Victor is everything! I just hate how the series ended though.
This book was pretty good. I think there may have been a sequel written.
This has to be one of the most poorly written books that I have read.
This was a great book. It was sooo relatable. Reminded me of every young trying to find her identity.
If this was the first time I read this book and I was a mere 16 years old, I probably would have given it 5 stars.
So I'll always have a small bit of love for this book.It is now maybe 10 or so years later since the first and second and third time I read Flyy Girl and I see it so differently now.
I can definitely say after rereading this book as an adult I'm more like Raheema personality wise.Now, I see Tracy as a troubled girl who just follows the wrong people and turn into a direction that wouldn't be healthy for anyone.
Tracy, living with her mother and father noticed a change in her home.
Her father wanted out but her mother didn't know why.
Her father rented an apartment while her and her mother still lived in his house under his rules.
As Tracy got older and there was no father figure around boys got in her path and made her teenage years harder.
Still she now has a younger brother from her same father and now her parents relationship is harder than triganomatry in summer school.
Tracy feels as if she needs a father figure around but not in her life...(still reading)
I First read this book back when I was a young woman and I loved it then, And now reading this as an older woman in her forties, I still feel the same, my emotions, my head shaking, my busting up out loud and my understanding what the main character is going through as she experience love, life, and happiness are all still the same.
Now I have to read the sequel to this book to find out how things went after the main character matured into a grown woman.
Will definitely recommend this book to others.
i think i read this in 8th grade or maybe it was freshman year of high school. i just recall girls eating this up like it was candy. after having it recommended to be for the fiftieth time i borrowed it from a fellow classmate.i was appalled and found it disturbing. i especially remember thinking about all of the girls that pushed it on me and i wondered if they liked it only for the shock value. i wondered if reading it made them feel cool. and then i wondered why i was friends with them.mlech. pass.
3.5 stars.  I've thought about re-reading  Flyy Girl  over the years, just to see if it still holds up. It does in some respects, because it tells the truth about what many young black women experience in love and relationships, no matter their upbringing; back then we only wanted to be cool and accepted by boys and yearned for excitement. I accept Flyy Girl for what it is (was), but reading it now, I feel like I'm glad to be past this age.
I loved this book! Usually I live for unexpected plots and twists and turns. However, this book kept a steady pace which I enjoyed so much. There was never a time in the book where I wanted to skip pages or where there was so much going on that I got confused. Then the way he presented the characters was excellent. It felt like he pulled these characters from my childhood. Wonderful writing and great evolution of characters! Definitely one of my fav books!
OMG OMG OMG! Omar outdid himself on this book. I read this in 10th grade. I can't believe my mom bought this book for me, but I guess she did for a reason. I wanted to be just like Tracy when I read this. this book was definitely a great page turner. I really enjoyed it. Every young girl should read the 'Flyy Girl' trilogy.
I can remember reading this and seeing some of my "friends" at the time experiencing some of the same scenarios that Omar talked about. This is about teens, fast teens, boys not yet men, the promiscuity that prevailed in the 80's, and growing up. I read this over 15 years ago and still remember. I guess that says something~
Enjoy this book. Omar tyree tell us a story of Tracy Ellison whom is the main character in the story. I like the way that the author walks the reader thru Tracy life from when she was young till when she's a woman. A defo good read
I read this as a teenager it was a good read and fun for teens.
It seemed like he was trying to make the main character, Tracy, very in control of her sexuality.
Finally, the way this book was written made it seem like her attitude towards guys and all her problems with them throughout life stemmed from 'daddy issues.' That is so preposterous and borderline insulting.
In many cases, characters (in books, TV, and movies) are poorly written because the writer has little understanding of the person he/she is trying to portray.
I really don' know why anyone would ever read or recommend this book.
Great book...I read it years ago when it first came out....I think I was maybe 13 or so...I've read it twice since...i really think Tracy represented many of today's young girls...the ones that think they know everything when in reality they're only just getting started with life's rollercoaster...I'm glad Raheema was there to show a different kind of teenager.
This is just Tracy's reality...there are other books out there for you if you don't like it...newsflash there are girls out there like her, and some much worse..it shouldn't be written about...you as the reader can see how twisted her thinking is...does he need to preach about it within the story ...its written from the perspective of a lost young girl's mind...these are her thoughs, opinions and experiences.
This book is about a girl who faces trouble. All because of her love of being in the fast lanes. Which also means living life to the fullest. Never letting anyones advice decide what she does.This girl is named Tracy Ellison.She goes many boyfriends.Her favorite thing to do is have a goal and achieve no matter how hard.I admire her for that quality.Also, for how when ever she was in trouble and she realized it she turned her life around.
Hmm. What can I say really? This was the first urban fiction I read, and fortunately the last. I tried to get through it, but the character and story was so contrived and pretentious that I was actually angry that something like this was published. I guess every book has its audience, and it's quite clear this one is for self-absorbed, ignorant, low class black girls.
