https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/765337.Difference_and_Repetition
Just read the central chapter, "The Image of Thought." Deleuze's erudition isn't faked, I don't want to join the this-is-bullshit brigade that stalks continental thinkers wherever they go, but I have to wonder if this is really a serious work of philosophy.
but then again, honestly, what the hell are you talking about, my friend?Foucault famously loved Deleuze's early books and, at a time when phenomenology was part of the philosophical establishment in France, said that they represented the extreme opposite of Merleau-Ponty's way of thinking.
The virtual, more specifically then, is the structure through which the diverse distributions of intensive singularities and the differential relations which can pertain between them can sustain a form of coexistence in a spatium which will not be reducible to the spatiotemporally given.
That is, Deleuze will maintain that this intensive world of difference, or this world of implicated differences, these diverse distributions of differential relations, can virtually sustain coexistence amongst themselves within the virtual field.
I'm not finished yet but I have a few observations.Deleuze is the first post-modern continental philosopher to do competent math, science (physics and biology), theology and philosophy that it has been my pleasure to read since college.This book is momentous.
He gives a philosophic basis for chaotic complexity that is both dexterous and sublime.
Superficiality would dictate that difference and repetition have no truck except glancingly with each other.
Difference in embedded in repetition for itself.
Repetition results in difference expressed in itself.
So what might have seemed to be mutually exclusive Deleuze teaches us is really interdependant and interrealated.
This book is the key that invented the lock. It has all the answers, but you have to figure out the right questions to ask. It's philosophical Ouija.
Then, it is assumed that this identity can be represented.Deleuze first, and perhaps most clearly, breaks down the nature of philosophical representation in the first chapter of the book, so let us now turn to that section.
But the individual attacks will make more sense once we have a better sense of what Deleuze thinks is really going on behind the image of thought, in other words, when we have a better sense of his concept of difference-in-itself.
The amount of complexity that arises quickly can get out of hand.What Deleuze wants to do, and what makes this book so great, is that he tackles the implicit aesthetic of the philosophical tradition itself.
that the most concise referent in discourse isn't the absolute One, which makes it a boring discourse of enforcing the one everywhere -- rather the most concise referent is the world itself, which not only includes the possible but also the impossible.This advances Deleuze to the point of pure contemplation.
pretzels is the metaphysics of continuityhttps://youtu.be/Sg2im6mi0eo
For millennia thinkers have posited the eternal question: "Can we make philosophy even more inaccessible?" Difference and Repetition offers us a resounding yes.
I'm talking dense technical vocabulary.
I'm talking some Aristotle/Kant smack down.
I'm talking revision of the foundations of Western metaphysics.
I'm talking tortured prose and lofty poetic allusions that leave you gobsmacked.If you're the kind of pseudo-philosopher disgusted by the analytic clarity of Anglophonic philosophy, and if you're the kind of masochist who loves reading that pretentious big book classic so you can look intellectual as such, then this little philosophical morsel will differenciate your socks right off.
Embrace the Difference.
Not sure what rating to give this text. It is a very bizzarre, tense text. I did not really understand it, and could not get through all of it...but good friends of mine and teachers have spoken highly of it and Deleuze philosophy. So perhaps I shall return again. After all, most philosophy begins as bizarre and inaccessible. Michel Foucault called Deleuze the major philosopher of our epoch...so...it's probably just me and not Deleuze...
Libro de libros de Deleuze es el primer capítulo de toda su gran y prolífica obra. Contiene, no sin torpezas, calambres y traqueteos todo lo formidable de su obra pero tal vez demasiado apretujado. allí podemos ver esbozar (insisto, no sin cierto apresuramiento) los conceptos de movimiento, diagrama, axioma capitalista, sentido y sensación enarbolados bajo la presentación del desarrollo de conceptos de diferencia y repetición. Destaco lo bien lograda que está la conceptualización de "diferencia y repetición" tomando conceptos que van desde Freud hasta Heidegger.
Will return to writing a thoughtful review, but will need some time for the ideas and the problems posed in the book to settle in before I can synthesize and add something different to these reviews, which is virtually impossible. Reading D's monographs on Hume, Kant, Bergson, Nietzsche and What is Grounding? certainly made the difference. A bit repetitive but very intense.
Instead, by exposing the overabundance of negation inherent to all of philosophy's history, Deleuze attempts to set up a philosophy of the affirmation of differences in the world, an affirmation which frees us from the rigid conception of the egoic self, of transcendent ideals of truth and knowledge, and of other-worldly aspirations which disguise nature as something other than what it really is.
Instead of being nihilistic or depressing, this non-teleological shift is liberating and affirmative, opening up more doors of creation and genesis than have ever existed in the world of philosophy.
As a former Deleuze fanatic, it was interesting to revisit the early ideas of someone whose ideas were once so important to me. Yes, there was a lot of bloviating. Yes, there was a lot of reliance on these just incredibly silly Freudian, Lacanian, and structuralist concepts. But, on the other hand, there was an attempt at a very serious-minded, continental-flavored empiricism, flawed as it was. And the last chapter is actually still quite thought-provoking.
A philosophical masterpiece whose implications for how we view the world have not yet been either fully felt or understood. Gilles Deleuze confronts us anew with an age-old question: Why do we think of things as identities when the basis of experience is the flux of difference? A must-read for anyone interested in questioning the grand narratives that have as their foundation ontologies of "the same."
Positively sophomoric drivel about favourite philosophers of PoliSci college students - Nietzshe, Kant, Kierkegaard etc.Imagine an illiterate blind idiot trying to describe mathematics.
Philosophy-wise you will do yourself a service reading Claude Levi Strauss, Aristotle interpretations, Ruth Benedict or even Ian Buruma instead, Buruma which is, despite all the jumping to conclusions and facile generalisations he uses is still a notch better than this collection of mind-vomit instead.
Theater and art history wise, better read the books of Paul Claudel, 50 years earlier, but none the worse.
Mathematics and physics wise - better read the Einsteins Introduction to General Theory of relativity or Hawking's Brief history of time.
Not quite as interesting as Deleuze's Logic of Sense.
D&R is a fascinating, impossible work of authentic philosophy.
I couldn't believe the affinities Deleuze finds with certain aspects of Platonic formalism.
Deleuze reminds us that to overturn Platonism is not to extinguish ancient Greek thought, but to go beyond.
will find this work challenging and antagonizing.
His overturning of traditional Western views of representation forever alters the landscape of any possible knowledge.
The work is somewhat *repetitive, but solidifies originary difference as the starting point for any philosophy to come.
Deleuze wasn't kidding: this is a pure work of anti-Hegelianism.
The magnus opus of Gilles Deleuze.
Nowadays that the interest in Deleuze writings is increased, one can find a robust text in that book.
We cannot but admire the way the author, even if he flirts with the idea of the absense of meaning, - and we suspect here the vacuum behind the structuralistic approach - without being satisfied with the statement of a power game, he manages to control the language in order not to construct another structure, but to reveal its powrelessness of not doing so.Althought he could reatreat into ambiguity, the correcteness of his style is also impressive; without being severe in the selection of the words, he gives excactly the proper meaning; also, his examples from other scientific disciplines, and the references to other philosophers are incorporated succesfuly inside the textIt is a book for which the negative criticism doesn't go easily through reader's mind.
Head in the clouds critical theory at its best.
Ushering in a new era of deconstruction, and Irigaray style incomprehensible feminism.
And that's what I love about Deleuze, he rarely beats anyone up rowdy style like some philosophers, he simply 'buggers them in the arse' and turns their theories into producing monstrous offspring that are undoubtedly theirs, but completely different (As Deleuze once famously said in an interview)....
Difficult book, but definitely a touchstone text within the Continental Tradition.
Probably could re-read this book thirty times and not unravel every nuanced point.
A fascinating philosophy book I have read in a long time. The book in which Deleuze's own voice raises, with the concepts of difference in itself and repetition for itself. Nevertheless, it would be written another chapter so-called "Repetition in Itself".Main themes that concern me specifically,-Eternal Return-Groundlessness / Ungrounding-The Unconscious-The Torture and Convalescence in the Cycle of Eternal Return-The Decline of Representation and Identity in Modern Philosophy: A Theory without Image-Overturning Platonism-Univocity of Being-The Reign of Simulacra-Dark Precursor-Intensity-Enhancing Multiplicities
The book of antonyms could have been half in size, but its girth did help me squash a mozzie. It's epiphenomenologically depressed body spread like a raspberry jam across the words 'specific difference' - x2! Due to a chance parallel page positioning. As one would peeing into Marcel Duchamp's urinal, Deleuze spends more time playing with himself than expounding upon why he is so dehydrated.Deserves more than 3 stars.
This is by far the best book Gilles Deleuze ever wrote! The difficulty with reading Deleuze is that his terminology is so dynamic; however, The first three chapters are incredible. It worth reading
http://5cense.com/16/509.htm
Definitely pushing the limit of how much of the "unthought" can be thought and/or communicated.
I have read Bergson before (Matter and Memory) and did understand the points that were brought into the classical discussion of pure difference and complex repetition.
As a self-thought artist who was born deaf in a small village in Idaho, Castle was making drawings, collage, and assemblages entirely from found objects.Like most philosophy books that I have read the beginning part of the book was very dense and confusing.
I remembered reading in Wiki that the book was put together as Deleuze’s dissertation: “In 1968 he published his two dissertations, Difference and Repetition (supervised by Gandillac) and Expressionism in Philosophy: Spinoza (supervised by Alquié)."The other difficulty is the extreme Eurocentrism of the book.
Moreover, difference for Deleuze also conceptually maps out the problem with the philosophy consciousness in that in order to distinguish itself thought (or the thinking, speaking, feeling subject) needs an “other” to project difference on but also for difference to appear.
Deleuze asserts that sensations and affective field around us constitute as forms of knowledge production and that our understanding of consciousness (in Western philosophy for him) is limited if we only focus on consciousness as devoid of knowledge from the senses.
There's very little that can be adequately said about this book in a short space.
It's extremely dense: moving from differential calculus, to biology and embryology, to avant-garde literature, to careful and surprising readings of the major works in the history of philosophy, and finally to the difficult work of forging an ontology and Metaphysics that actually achieves that goal of saying something useful.In referencing this book, other thinkers (namely Protevi, I think) have mentioned that it's an attempt to create a Metaphysics worthy of recent developments in science (circa 1968) and to create a work that details the conditions for actual experience, not possible.
But if nothing else, this puts the book in the historical lineage of people like Kant, Hegel, and Heidegger, in terms of trying to systematically present a philosophical vision, even though this vision is opposed to all these figures.
Difference and Repetition, a brilliant exposition of the critique of identity, has been central in initiating the shift in French thought away from Hegel and Marx, towards Nietzsche and Freud.
The text follows the development of two central concepts, those of pure difference and complex repetition.
It shows how the two concepts are related - difference implying divergence and decentering, and repetition implying displacement and disguising.
In its explication the work moves deftly between Hegel, Kierkegaard, Freud, Althusser, and Nietzsche to establish a fundamental critique of Western metaphysics.
Difference and Repetition has become essential to the work of literary critics and philosophers alike.
Indeed, the philosophical power of Difference and Repetition is drawn not merely from its offering up of new answers to old questions, but from rethinking the very questions that have defined philosophy so far.
Thus against the Platonic tendency to ask after 'What Is?' ('What is Justice?', 'What is Beauty?), Deleuze will substitute an entirely new set of questions - How?
It's in this light that one ought to understand the call, sounded within, for an 'overturning of Platonism' - a call marked by Deleuze to be the very task of all modern philosophy.Yet the real genius of the book lies deeper still: not merely in its laying out a program for any future philosophy, but its attempt, fearlessly made - to fulfil it.
my take-away, and it's always going to be about the take-away with gilles, is that his fuzzy transcendental scientific structuralism of everything's everything is better than kant's, which says the everything is never everything, everything is either one thing or another and never the two at once in contradiction ever.
deleuze is on the vico cycle from *finnegans wake* of eternal return, difference within difference within difference, yet they are all the same idea and different within that sameness, etc.
derrida and deleuze are really telling us really obvious things, obvious to anyone who's ever been in the/a 'world'.
i mean just go read *finnegans wake* then.
Siempre hay una brecha entre los dos, entre el impulso de muerte como una tendencia «trascendental» y el contingente accidente que me mata.
El suicidio es un intento desesperado (y en última instancia fallido) por reunir las dos dimensiones.el Eros y el Tánatos no son dos impulsos opuestos, que compiten y combinan sus fuerzas (como en un masoquismo erotizado); solo hay un impulso, la libido, esforzándose por gozar, y el «impulso de muerte» es el espacio curvo de su estructura formal: [él] representa el papel de principio trascendental, mientras que el principio del placer es solamente psicológico.
