https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/703292.The_Witch_of_Blackbird_Pond
I really liked this book, and have therefore come to the conclusion that books written for children can be higher quality writing than books written for adults because there isn't this pressure to impress with heavy metaphor and poignant statements about life. When adults write for adults there is too much pressure, adults writing for children understand that it is the story and the characters that matter most, and if those two are well written then I think you have a deep, satisfying book.

Upon finally reaching Wethersby when the winds permit, Kit reveals to the captain that she has not sent word to her aunt of her arrival and her seven trunks must be transported to "town," which Kit is shocked to learn is little more than a church, a square and the scattered homes or fields of the Puritan villagers.
Helping Judith weed the onion field out by Blackbird Pond, Kit inquires about a shack out there in the tranquil meadow and is told a witch lives there, a Quaker named Hannah Tupper.
She even starts to teach her young fan Prudence how to read in secret, introducing her to Hannah and turning over lessons to the old woman.
A good witch is hard to find.I should know; I've been searching for one my entire life.So, I went into this read thinking.
no incantation, no levitation, no black tresses or long black gowns.Just a sad, partially demented Quaker woman who has been ostracized from the town for her religious beliefs.Oh, and a town with “a pillory, a whipping post and stocks.” All of the proper accoutrements for provoking public humiliation in the village square in Connecticut in the 17th century.God, I hate Puritans.I hate 'em, and so does Kit, our protagonist, who is forced to leave wealth and the paradise that is Barbados for the bleak, never ending Puritans and snow.I think this is known as “hell,” or purgatory, at the very least.Poor Kit.And poor me.
Kit, Katherine Tyler, is a free spirit.
She weathers a storm, avoids seasickness, and even manages to wrangle two entire conversations out of the blue-eyed son of the ship’s captain.However, the Connecticut mainland has a sharper edge than any of the challenges on board ship.
But there are far greater things to fear in the colonies than boredom.And when Kit begins sneaking away to find her own happiness.The real danger begins.
I love Kit!
I’ve read The Witch of Blackbird Pond at least a dozen times—maybe two-dozen.
And now may have to read it again.
FULL REVIEW HERE:http://literarycafe.weebly.com/home/t..."She snatched at the dream that had comforted her for so long. It was faded and thin, like a letter too often read."A search of identity, belonging, friendship, and breaking social class boundaries, this book is uncharacteristically deep for young adult novels. Not only is the time period historically accurate, but Elizabeth George Spear incorporates easy to read, yet distinct and complex, accents. From the Quaker 'witch', to the Barbados
It was faded and thin, like a letter too often read."A search of identity, belonging, friendship, and breaking social class boundaries, this book is uncharacteristically deep for young adult novels.
It's basically a Salem Witch Trial book that takes place in another New England coastal town, Wethersfield.A few major themes in The Witch of Blackbird Pond include the political issues of the 17th century, religious differences from protestants and Quakers, how education differs from country to country ("What a pity every child couldn't learn to read under a willow tree..." -Kit, who learned in Barbados), judgement and how it affects culture...
Of course Puritans today are also positive like Gale portrayed them in "Notes", but to realise it was just Quakers they branded and killed and to see tiny inserts about how the baby son died because he had to be christened in the freezing cold is unusual.There is a great economy of writing, nothing superfluous, another mark of all the books I wanted to keep and not return to the library, back when I read a lot without it all getting mixed up or being washed out, when I reread; all those books seem so much shorter now, but it's THERE, just as in old movies - more content in less space.Speare also shows great fairness, shows how the gruff and initially "hateful" uncle is a good man, having fought hard, his grief and load shown in a single simple powerful image, his politics and those of other men balanced to cross over, checkboard, religion and politics and ethics not all given to the "good" or "bad" side.I had forgotten that the old "witch" was saved, and even the cat, and was glad.
This book got me into historical fiction which is the genre perhaps closest to my heart. The conflict between freedom and responsibility, between individual and family and community ring as clear today as they did when I first read this book as a kid
Likewise, Kit's adventures could well be the outline for an excellent bodice ripper -- but the author glossed over much of the peril inherent in her story.
It's a book which would take only a small nudge to turn into a gripping ripper-style novel for adults...but it's a young adult read from 40+ years ago, so that nudge is simply not there.
It's not that I demand every book flaunt a score of hardcore ripper themes, but when the plot presents SO MANY opportunities & ignores them...well, that's disappointing to my sophisticated eyes of adulthood.** Certainly I loved this book as a 5th grader.
It takes us to Puritan New England, in the colony of Connecticut.
In fact, Kit’s free thinking and outspoken ways create suspicion and irrational fear.Speare’s characters are fleshed out and conflicted and it is a pleasure to watch them learn and grow throughout the book.
It was a tremulous and frightening time, where politics were a constant topic of conversation as the colonists were just beginning to decide that they no longer wanted a king.Kit’s indecision about what and who she loves, and where she belongs, rang so true to me.
The descriptions of New England itself and of the traditions and chores of the time were expertly woven into the prose.
Unul dintre cele mai frumoase romane pe care le-am citit vreodată!
This is my 9th Newbery Medal book and maybe the best so far.
Well written with good characters, especially Kit Tyler, the young lady who is the heroine of the novel.
There is a bit of a history lesson here also since the setting is 1687 in Wethersfield of the Connecticut Colony where the heavy handed Puritan's are dispensing their brand of religion and law.
You can get an idea of the plot from the book description, but it plays out on the pages so well with such a strong, young female character that it's just a pleasure to read.1979 Newbery Medal winner.
This being Banned Books Week and having just finished a historical fiction about witchcraft in England, I thought it be high time to read the beloved favorite.
I reread this in one delightful sitting.This book is a young adult historical fiction about a girl named Katherine, i.e. Kit, who is forced to leave her home in Barbados and move to Connecticut to live with her Aunt and Uncle.
Or better yet it doesn’t.The two people accused of witchcraft in the book are not witches.
However this book has been banned because of promoting witchcraft and violence.
Instead the book promotes hard work, good relationships, and education.
3.5 StarsThe problem with re-reading childhood favorites, is they very rarely live up to my memories. RTC
Sadly, I did not read this when it was meant to be read, as a youth struggling to know it's more important to do the right thing than to fit in with what everybody else is doing.Important, worthy lesson, but after reading two young adult novels this week with very similar themes (does this happen to anyone else?
As modern readers, we have the hindsight to see and learn from the foibles of our ancestors and their limited understanding, but the author gave this sort of vision to Kit immediately.I don't know if this is ever argued (and why am I arguing, didn't I promise not to?) but part of me feels like there is an anti-obedience theme in this book.
Between the main character lamenting every single moment that she's being worked like a slave and the Puritans sounding scarily familiar about people being evil if they don't worship as they do, I was over this book almost as soon as I started it.Taking place in 1687, we get a sneak peek at the colonies prior to the American revolution.
The main character Kit who has lived in Barbados her whole life with her grandfather as her only guardian sets off to live with her aunt that lives in the Connecticut colony.
In the 4th grade, I came down with chicken pox right before Christmas.
My mom let me open an early gift and it was a set of 4 Newbery award-winning novels including "The Witch of Blackbird Pond." I thought that one looked kind of boring so I read "Dear Mr. Henshaw" instead.
Witch ended up on my shelf until yesterday when I picked it at random and started reading it.
Only took me thirty-one years to read that copy.
Such a lovely little book, a surprising romance.
I might have loved at nine years old and I certainly enjoyed it at forty.
Sticks and stones will break my bones,but words will never hurt me.... Well, unless you happen to be in court being tried for witchcraft: "You will listen to the charges against you."A clerk read from a parchment, giving full weight and due to every awful word."________ _____, thou art here accused that not having the fear of God before thine eyes thou hast had familiarity with Satan the grand enemy of God and man, and that by his instigation and help thou hast in a preternatural way afflicted
"You will listen to the charges against you."A clerk read from a parchment, giving full weight and due to every awful word."________ _____, thou art here accused that not having the fear of God before thine eyes thou hast had familiarity with Satan the grand enemy of God and man, and that by his instigation and help thou hast in a preternatural way afflicted and done harm to the bodies and estates of sundry of His Majesty's reign, in the third year of his majesty's reign, for which by the law of God and the law of the colony, thou deservest to die."Mistress _____, you are accused by Adam Cruff with the following actions.
A fish-out-of-water story that brought the seventeenth century alive for me.
What did I love about it when I was a teen?
Its restless, stubborn, impulsive heroine, Kit. Its confident, outspoken, sea-faring hero, Nat. Steadfast Mercy and shy John — whose story still makes my heart beat a little faster.
A historical setting so vivid that my real life paled beside it.
And - sigh - one of the most romantic last scenes ever.
Re-reading it now, I can see that it was shaped by the time it was written in (the 1950s) as well as by the time it's about (the 1680s).
She knew how to get the most out of every scene.
Oh, my heart. I have a new favorite. <3 <3 <3 (Thanks to Olivia for mentioning it in a recent blog post, for that is what inspired me to pick it up at the library. :))(I want to do a real review at some point but no promises because I'm bad at keeping them when it comes to blogging and such. :P)
LOVED this book! Is my new favorite! I'd give it six stars if I could! But then again, I love Elizabeth George Speare's writing. It's beautifully lyrical and riveting at the same time. Love.
Terrible book IMHO
......................Re-read 2013I was around 11 years old the first time Mom read The Witch of Blackbird Pond by Elizabeth George Speare out loud to us.
My favorite, though, the book I picked up and read and re-read until I wore out our copy and had to buy a new one…that was The Witch of Blackbird Pond.
It is possible for us to be patriotic because our ancestors so many years ago stood up for their rights and freedom against the King.
I love The Witch of Blackbird Pond because that rock that Kit learns to lean on, that stubborn independence, that fight for liberty….that’s in my blood.
Am mai citit doar o singură carte de genul acesta și a devenit o perioadă de care sunt foarte interesantă.
Mi-a plăcut foarte mult relația cu verișoarele ei (Mercy a fost preferata mea) și cum încearcă pe cât posibil să le ajute la treburi, deși la început este foarte nepricepută și neîndemânatică.
Prietenia lui Kit cu Hanna este probabil cel mai bun lucru care i s-a întâmplat de când a ajuns pe insulă și cu siguranță are foarte multe de învățat de la ea.
Deși respectă regulile acestora, este capabil să le încalce pentru a-și ajuta prietenii, iar acest lucru l-a ridicat enorm de mult în ochii mei.
I’ve been muddling through a few “serious” books for the last several days, so I finally picked up an old friend instead: Elizabeth George Speare’s The Witch of Blackbird Pond.The book’s protagonist, sixteen-year-old Kit Tyler, leaves 17th-century Barbados to live with her aunt in Puritan New England.
She can swim.Kit is not the ideal heroine for a 21st-century audience.
Kit, a misfit herself, shows great strength as she adopts the town’s outcasts: an old Quaker woman, a neglected young girl, and a feisty sailor, Nat.Witch is one of my childhood favorites.
Simple, yet deep enough for a young child to appreciate the first layer, while sensing something more...
Every character had inner conflict and multiple layers...
enough to keep the interaction new and spontaneous, their character traits growing, the plot diverse and unpredictable.It was a breath of fresh air not to be able to see what was coming next.
I was surprised by the simple and understated ending -- yay for subtext in a kids' book!
Sequel please?!I can see why my dear friend Amy loves this book to pieces.
There are true political and cultural undertones, and while they don't overshadow the plot or characters, they're a part of everyday life.
I loved this book when I was twelve, and re-reading it made me notice all of the amazing themes and morals in it now!
Forced to leave her sunny Caribbean home for the bleak Connecticut Colony, Kit Tyler is filled with trepidation.
As they sail up the river to Kit's new home, the teasing and moodiness of a young sailor named Nat doesn't help.
Still, her unsinkable spirit soon bobs back up.
What this spirited teenager doesn't count on, however, is how her aunt and uncle's stern Puritan community will view her.
When Kit befriends an old Quaker woman known as the Witch of Blackbird Pond, it is more than the ascetics can take: soon Kit is defending her life.
Rating: 5+5 „Rar s-a mai întâmplat ca o carte să ne transporte în așa fel în viața din secolul al XVII-lea.“ - New York Herald-Tribune„O carte remarcabilă, plină de energie și de empatie.“ - Bookmark Nu știu cum se face dar în ultima perioadă am reușit să citesc multe cărți care mi-au plăcut. De această dată vă voi vorbi despre Vrăjitoarea de la Iazul Mierlei de Elizabeth George Speare, o carte care a apărut la YoungArt luna trecută. Încă de la primele pagini ale acestei cărți am simțit că voi i
A fost interesant cum câteva dintre personajele regăsite la bord ne vor însoți pe parcursul cărții, având în vedere că ele vor merge toate fix către locul unde Kit își are destinația: Conneticut, locul unde se află singurele rude ale fetei, mătușa, unchiul și verișoarele ei.Cu toate că locul unde ajunge Kit nu impresionează la prima vedere, el are ceva minunat care o va face pe protagonistă să se simtă ca acasă, o zonă care până și pe mine m-a făcut să visez cu ochii deschiși: Lunca Mare.Acțiunea cărții se petrece într-o perioadă în care multe zone ale lumii suspectau existența vrăjitoarelor (nu zic că nu ar exista :D) și preferau să dea vina pe multe femei-vrăjitoare atunci când se întâmplau lucruri ciudate, înfricoșătoare, inexplicabile.
It's safe to say, I've been in love with this story ever since I was a young girl. This is my favorite book in the entire universe. There will never be another like it. I've read it more times than I can count. My heart belongs to this little book, and that will never change! ♥♥♥
