https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/297982.Mr_Rabbit_and_the_Lovely_Present
I suppose this Caldecott Honor book is considered a classic, but it didn't really thrill me.
A little girl and a large talking rabbit go in search of presents for the child's mother.
There's a lot of talk about colors and fruit, and I'm not sure why.
Children old enough to sit still for a book of this length usually already know their colors, so why hammer them over the head with the subject?
And, a rabbit the size of a girl?
He's either imaginary, or been exposed to a radioactive carrot.
Either way, I see this kid spending her adolescence in therapy.
Now aside from Mr. Rabbit and the Lovely Present simply being the tender and enchanting narrative of a little girl (with Mr. Rabbit's help, of course) finding the perfect (or perhaps rather a perfect) and indeed sweetly lovely fruit basket birthday present for the mother, the listing of diverse nouns of different colours (red, yellow, green and blue), and even though most of these diverse and various objects listed except for the four types of fruit end up not being suitable as birthday gifts, this all not only practices and reviews four of the main and most commonly encountered colours on the spectrum, but also trains and considers which objects are generally which colours (fire engines are red, the sun is yellow, spinach is green, lakes look blue etc.).
Kids, your mother really doesn't want a fruit basket for her birthday, unless she has scurvy.Charlotte Zolotow's text, in which a little girl wants to give her mother a birthday present and needs help choosing something, is extremely dull, and Maurice Sendak's pictures are not bad, but I found Mr. Rabbit verging on creepy.
It doesn't help that the contours of his body are those of a middle-aged man growing a beer belly.At the end of this one I think every reader is breathing a sigh of relief that the little girl got through her day with Mr. Rabbit unmolested.
And I wanted to like this story but it always felt a little squicky to me.
And, among other praises and analyses, she pointed out that Mr. Rabbit may be an imaginary friend.Well that makes so much sense to me now that I actually do feel comfortable loving the story now!
As I said to her, by way of thanks:"Hm. I never had the thought of Mr. Rabbit being an imaginary friend.
I love the story much more from that perspective as the notion adds a layer of depth, and also because it removes a bit of a 'squick.'"
Sort of a strange story about a little girl who consults a giant rabbit while trying to decide what to give her mother as a birthday present. Is the rabbit a pookah? This isn't hinted at, but I like to think he is.
Rather repetitive but something tells me that the intended audience is not a middle-aged man. So, bravo, la niña pequeña!
Utterly charming! This book has so much charm, between the earnest, serious little girl looking for the perfect present for her mother and the helpful, comical, casual Mr. Rabbit. The pace of the book is entrancing, part suspenseful, part predictable, feels like sailing in a light summer breeze. I can see why children have loved this book for half a century. "Something blue, maybe," said the little girl. "Lakes are blue," said the rabbit."But I can't give her a lake, you know," said the little girl.
1963 Caldecott Honor. Favorite Illustration: when the girl and the rabbit are in the meadow discussing the color blue. This is a sweet little story, but not anything that stands out to me. I do really like the aspect of the rabbit being bigger than the girl, making it clear that he is an imaginary helper.
Well, first off, despite being illustrated by the talented Maurice Sendak, I think the rabbit is rather freaky looking. But anyway.... this story is about a girl who wants to get a present for her mother. The rabbit helps her decide what to get. It starts out cute, but gets kind of tiresome as the rabbit repeatedly suggests presents and the girl rejects them.
One of my favorites from my own childhood, wonderfully illustrated with lovely sentiment.
She is meeting with Mr Rabbit, who helps her with ideas, and after a long search they finally find the real gift that will make her mother happy, including red apples, green pears, yellow bananas, and blue grapes.
Its a dialogue between the two of them, the little girl and Mr Rabbit, showing the roles of both of them.
It also makes clear the colors associated with the fruits: red, green, yellow, blue.
Overall, kids can also learn how to prepare a precious gift for their loved ones, looking for what is the best.
What a joy to read this to our two little neighborhood girls tonight.
A little girl asks a rabbit for help in choosing just the right birthday present for her mother.As the rabbit provides ideas, the child rejects them until the last item.
Knowing her mother likes red, she cannot give her a cardinal, a red roof or red underwear, but she can give her mother an apple.As the reader journeys with the little girl through a spectrum of colors, the end result is a bananna for yellow, a pear for green and blue for grapes.This is a gentle story of the love a daughter has for her mother in wanting to choose a very special gift.I loved the gentle illustrations!
A little girl is looking for the perfect present for her mother and enlists the help of Mr. Rabbit. Someone suggested that Mr. Rabbit might be a pookah, I'm hoping so because otherwise he seems a bit creepy. As large as her, and walking around like a human? His first name better be Harvey...Otherwise, I liked the intricate drawings, the solution for the present. I liked their dialogue with enough repetition to help a beginning reader to make the connection between word on the page and meaning. Overall it's a cute story once you get past that rabbit...
The copy of this book that I read was published in 1962. The illustrations are wonderful and seem to be even older in the way that they are done. But, I do have to say that I found the Rabbit, (although helpful in the story) to be creapy looking. It has a slightly human face, that set me a little on edge in some of the illustrations.But other than that it is a nice little book that has a pleasant story.
Maurice Sendak has a way of making everything seem creepy and surreal. I love the text of this story, but could never really connect with the illustrations because the rabbit seems so otherworldly and frightening. Interestingly, though, I do think the story would be a nice, uncommon addition to a Mother’s Day story time. Despite my uneasiness about the illustrations, I might still try sharing it with kids this May.
Reading this so close to Mother's Day made it seem sweeter...a young girl really wants to give her mother a birthday gift. But she doesn't have money and doesn't know what to give. She seeks Mr. Rabbit's advice. The story is repetitive...my 6 year old was excited to point out the pattern. Nice illustrations. I liked the story, but wasn't absolutely wowed by it.
Give this book to Mom on her birthday -- along with a basket of apples, bananas, Bartlett pears, and grapes. See why Maurice Sendak's pictures resulted in Caldecott Honor book status. Feel a special feeling for author Charlotte Zolotow's exceptional understanding of children.
Master storyteller Charlotte Zolotow collaborates with brilliant illustrator Maurice Sendak for a charming book about a little girl who wants to give her mother a gift. This one is especially good for young children or new readers.
one of my favorite books from when i was little - LOVE the drawings - especially the rabbit.
Wonderful story and pictures that are beautifully executed and with lovely colors. This one really is a keeper.
I'd really only give this a 3.5. I wanted to like it more, but the story was a bit flat for me.
Because the story is intended for children in the 3-7 age range, I liked the way that the author used the little girl's search for a present as a way to review colors and objects that fall under that color's category.
It provides children with a fun way to review their knowledge about colors while also exposing them to the nature of problem-solving.
I think that this book is a fun way for children to review their knowledge of colors while also following the tale of a little girl and her rabbit friend!
This is a story about a little girl asking a rabbit to help her find a birthday present for her mother.The story uses mainly tier 1 and some tier 2 language.
The stark white background will help readers focus on the words, if that is the agenda, or the reader can use the opposing pages to analyze the pictures.The illustrations are at times odd to me.
The young girl is searching for a present for her mother, and each item is based on a color.
The illustrations are full of color and support the text.
The little girl goes and finds her friend Mr. Rabbit to ask for help about what to get her mother for her birthday.
They talk about all her favorite colors and think of things that they could get for her mom that are all those colors (red, yellow, green, and blue).
Mr. Rabbit and the little girl decide on red apples, yellow bananas, green pears, and blue grapes as the perfect present for her mom.
This book would be a great book for a classroom library, and allow students to learn that it is ok to rely on others/ friends for help.
Themes: Birthday/Mother's birthday/Birthday present/Fruit/Rabbit/ForrestThis is too long for storytime."...The heroine of their book has a problem.
For everyone knows you cannot give your mother a red roof, a yellow taxicab, a green caterpillar, or a blue lake for her birthday.
But then all the little girl has said was that her mother liked red, yellow, green, and blue-and so Mr. Rabbit was trying.
How he and the little girl come up with the absolutely perfect present makes a story the youngest reader will love.
And the wondrously bright full-color pictures will bring hours of pleasure to readers and lookers of all ages." - inside left jacket flap
• 1963 Caldecott Honor Book •This book reminded me a tiny bit of the movie “Harvey” - a tall rabbit that’s maybe real or maybe imaginary and the whole thing is kind of odd (I do love the movie though).
I thought the story dragged on, and the art is ok but not the usual outstanding Maurice Sendak work that I love.
This is a decent book, but nothing earth shattering.
Maybe instead of walking around with the creepy rabbit looking for a birthday gift for her mother, she should stay at home next time and draw her mother a picture or something.
I'm not sure why this won a Caldecott Honor. I clearly missed something. I found the narrative entirely repetitive and wordy (especially the dialogue between Mr. Rabbit and the Little Girl) and the tale fairly dull.Ages: 3 - 7**Like my reviews? I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too. These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't. I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website: The Book Radar.
I liked the pictures of the book and I liked how the girl was getting a present. But, I was a little puzzled about how she knew some colors and was confused about red, especially when she said " she likes red" and then said "What is red?". I liked the repetition on the birds in the sky. I thought that part was entertaining. It was also a little unclear on how she got the grapes. The reader is left wondering what was the end result of the gift too. Did the mom like the gift?
I was really drawn to this because of the Sendak illustrations. Each one is like a small painting. The story is really good for little kids- it requires them to use their memory and be creative. It was a very comforting story and the only thing that bothered me was that the rabbit kind of freaked me out a little!
There is some nice, easy repetition that early readers would find ease to follow. The story is about a little girl who wants to get her mother something for her birthday and she asks Mr. Rabbit for help. Maurice Sendak does a nice job with the illustrations.
