https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15790883-promise-of-blood
The man's a story-teller.I've read some excellent books of late, including Blood Song, Fool's Assassin, and The Name of the Wind.
Promise of Blood held it's head up among that lot and wasn't overshadowed.My only quibbles.i) (trivial) One of the countries mentioned several times was called Fatrasta.
I understand many readers love highly structured 'magic systems'.
and the powder mages with all their weird bullet magic linked to snorting gunpowder ...
I recommend you read his debut.Finally - it was cool that Brian got his own love of cooking into the book in a big way.
Just as good as the first time around, but I tell ya.... I probably should have waited for the re-read because I still don't know when I'm going to get to the second and third one! Re-reading with my wonderful friend ORIENT ❤*Read with some wonderful friends over at BB&B*When I first started the book things were just thrown at me left and right. My poor little brain couldn't keep up with all of the people and what was going on, but my peeps in the book group said it gets better. And guess wh
My poor little brain couldn't keep up with all of the people and what was going on, but my peeps in the book group said it gets better.
Taniel is a powder mage and they can do a lot of things with gun powder involving magic.
I'm not going to try to explain all of these things as I will get confused.
This book has so much magic involved with gunpowder and different things.
It's really hard to explain but it was fun reading about one or the other that had magic, snorting the powder.
Buddy read with these Powder Mages: Sarah, Mary & Haifa lurkingPromise of Blood, the first book in The Powder Mage trilogy and the debut work of Brian McClellan, Brandon Sanderson’s apprentice is indeed imbued with great promises and it didn’t disappoint.It’s not uncommon for a high fantasy book to start their story with the dead of a king, it’s been done a lot of times already and Promise of Blood used the same plot device but there is a little bit of a twist.
Of course, the revolution alone won’t provide an intriguing plot, this is where the rumors of the old Gods coming back to the world, the characters and magic systems combined to make the book more interesting to dive into.The story is told from three main POV, Tamas, Taniel, Adamat and one side POV, Nila.
There wasn’t a single thing I didn’t like about Promise of Blood.The best components were the characters.
I don’t think I’ve ever seen it done as well as it was in Promise of Blood, so for that alone the book jumps up a few notches.And then he took those fantastic characters and made them funny as shit.
Either way, book 2 has the highest priority spot.Recommendations: Promise of Blood is a highly recommendable flintlock fantasy that will likely appeal to most fantasy readers (especially those who don’t mind a slow burning plot).
1000/5  "The Age of Kings is dead .
and I have killed it."  I.AM.DEADI haven't had the FEELS like this while reading a book in a such a long time.
I swear, I had the feeling I had when I first read mistborn..
wait okay, maybe not that amount of feels but it was close.
I love when you find a book you can't put down!
Every chance I got to read this book I would drop all my other priorities.
Even eating!
This is my favourite read of 2017 so far.
"He had to do it the old fashioned way.
I.AM.DEADI haven't had the FEELS like this while reading a book in a such a long time.
So this book is the debut novel from Brandon Sandersons writing student Brian McClellan.
The story is told from three main POVS, Tamas, Taniel & Adamant.
I enjoyed all POVS in this book & wasn't bored once, I definitely had my favourite point of views & that was Taniel's & his dad's Tamas.
it's official guys, I'm joining Taniel's harem.If I only had five words to describe this book I would use: fun, thrilling, unique, badass & amazing.
Never in my life have i read such well composed fictional characters.
I do have a problem withe one specific character though.
It's something that i not once read in other reviews, and it keeps bothering me.
More than once i read about his detective skills, and i was expecting some Sherlock-Poirot-Batman thing to happen.
Every time a minor problem arises in the story, the resolution comes very soon afterwards, giving you a constant feeling of danger, without actually endangering the characters or the general plot arc.
Flint Lock Fantasy is nothing new for me, but this is the debut book for this author and you never know how it would go, despite the many good reviews.
I am very pleased to say that it was not disappointing ☺Field Marshall Thamas and his cabal of Powder Mages have staged a coup in the tradition of the French and Russian Revolutions.
Good thing he has a young Savage girl to look after him...The three guys are our main characters and most of the action in the book happens around them, each having POV of their own.
I mentioned the royal cabal and they are an example of a more traditional magic system; they are called Privileged and they use their natural gifts and rune covered gloves to control the elements through the 'Else', the source of magic.
The relationship between Privileged and Marked plays a big role in the flux of the world.There are also characters known as Knacked and they have abilities like no need of sleep or perfect memory and although being less magically gifted, they contribute to the story nonetheless.McClellan has no shortage of interesting characters and in the end you'll have trouble deciding about your favorite.This gripping fantasy novel is bursting with outstanding action sequences, political intrigue, awesome and well developed characters and cool magic system, so naturally, I'm excited to find out where McClellan takes us in the next installment of this potentially excellent series.
For me, one of those special books was Promise of Blood.I've read a fair amount of fantasy over the years but I find myself tiring of quest stories set in worlds resembling medieval Europe, frequently with a heaping helping of medieval stasis thrown in.
Not only does Promise of Blood bring a lot of new things to the party, it brings the party with it.The book opens with Tamas making an effort to finish the coup and clean up his mess.
Taniel Two-Shot snorting lines of gun powder and the resulting nosebleeds will stick with me for a while.It's quite a bit more complicated than my summary has indicated.
So I decided to wait and see on the series.Finally, though, I decided to take the plunge, and now I’m sorry I waited so long, because I absolutely loved this book!Promise of Blood is a flintlock fantasy revelation.
But since I always try to shine the spotlight on my favorite things about a book, I’ll give it my best attempt here too.First, the flintlock fantasy setting, which is so similar to French Revolution Era Europe, sucked me in.
This was a buddy read with my fellow fantasy fanatics at FBR. Promise of Blood  drops you right into the action from the first chapter. With a unique magic system and a diverse cast of characters this is a fast paced story that kept me turning the pages deep into the night. Field Marshall Tamas is doing what he thinks is right for his country by overthrowing the king and nobility of Adro, but the consequences may be more than he and his co-conspirators are ready to handle. Events have been set i
With a unique magic system and a diverse cast of characters this is a fast paced story that kept me turning the pages deep into the night.
Events have been set in motion and the world they know will be gone if their enemies prevail.The storyline of this book was good, but I thought the characters are what made this 5 star material for me.
Each character was vital to this story, but they stood out the most to me.
I had a great time reading this, and can't wait to start the next book.
I got my copy earlier!! So now it's time for some sexy grandpa! ;)also BR with my favorite sexy grandpa loving toto ❤ AND Maggiepoo ❤
I got my copy earlier!! So now it's time for some sexy grandpa! ;)also BR with my favorite sexy grandpa loving toto ❤️ AND Maggiepoo ❤️
A manly story of maleness and men doing stuff.
Well kinda, because for most of the book they talk about her like she's not even there.
Read as: fetishism of the powerful savage.
Damn good job she can't talk, eh?
something, something, white male supremacy...
On top of that the author manages to shoehorn in 'magnetic Privileged' with their harems, 'especially the males', a sexy sorceress who has been a bad, bad girl, and a brothel run by the head of the city's Church.
It's a shame, because it'd be a much better read without all the misogyny.
Come on boys, you can do better.
(view spoiler)[ French revolution inspired I would think  (hide spoiler)] I liked the fantasy 1600/1800 hundred setting.
Carriages, rifles (view spoiler)[ guillotines  (hide spoiler)] are different than what I traditionally read in a fantasy story and I loved the delivery!(view spoiler)[ There is also a spectacular conversation between a noble and Tamas about monarchy vs democracy.
(hide spoiler)]I loved the characters.
But I want to express also a companion thought: Developing a poor female character would have hurt the book more, so I am just a tad disappointed by the choice but it is just a minor criticism!
Yeah, well, that'll teach me to be uncharacteristically compassionate, kind, forgiving, patient and stuff.You know what this book reminds me of, my Clueless Barnacles?
A teensy little bit.Then again, maybe not.So. The female characters in this book are a most delightful bunch.
Not a single one of them Wondrous Estrogen-Filled Characters (WEFC™) have an actual voice until all of a sudden, out of nowhere, towards the end of the book and stuff, we finally get a female POV!
Because there is actually one female character in the book that I actually liked.
But despite bringing together amazing Fantasy elements and magic systems, Promise of Blood didn't blow my mind and there were some details that bothered me a bit (and that I will list below).
So I felt very detached at times and I couldn't bring myself to fully love or care about the characters (except two of them).☹ The book seemed like a succession of stories, each one having its closure before moving to the next with usually a 5 (or more) days leap.
Holy pit!
This book was pretty good!
(Not a typo - the most common exclamation in this universe is "pit)Black powder artillery magic in a fantasy world?
Yes, please!
Lot's of action, intrigue, deceit, and magic.
Oddly enough, even with all this it was a little slow in a few places.
Also, I swear there were a few big plot holes.
(Read it a few times to see if I could make sense of it).But, even with the couple of iffy points, I can still recommend this highly to fantasy fans and I hope everyone will enjoy this unique approach.
:)Delightful as in lots of blood and guts, gun-mages, sorcerers, revolution, plain war, resurrected gods, a very sneaky Chef and a fantastic investigation that's all gumshoe mystery in a fully-realized fantasy realm.What makes this stand out, though?I think it's mostly the characters, the bright pacing, and the magic system.A lot of these epic fantasies get bogged down with too many characters, IMHO, but this one keeps a great balance with three PoV's, truly interesting storylines for each, and a few that are sufficiently non-standard that it was just a breath of fresh air.
I may be wrong about this little intuition, but there were enough stylistic callbacks in this novel to make me think I was reading some of Brent Weeks.
It had a complex, brilliantly executed magic system, great characters and a good plot that was interesting up until the very end.
From the very start McClellan establishes a comprehensive list of the rules, powers and limitations of magic and then proceeds to use this set-up to brilliant effect to propel the story and especially the action.
At one point there is a really complex moral dilemma when we are led to believe Tamas executed an innocent child in order to protect the revolution and stabilise the country.
Does that make me a bad person?This was a really enjoyable book with a great setting, good plot and interesting characters.
4 stars. Sorry I'm only just getting this up now, I had a very busy weekend =].I'll say this right at the beginning: everybody should pay careful attention to Brian McClellan. I have a feeling that this trilogy is just the start for him. If the quality of his writing is any indicator, we can expect great things from him. I had my few issues with the book, but seriously, this guy knows how to write.This was a great book.  Truly interesting world, as well as excellent characters with multiple POVs
Truly interesting world, as well as excellent characters with multiple POVs, but an unfortunately under-explained magic system and slightly lackluster ending.
The second thing that this book did an excellent job of was character development, which is largely due to Brian McClennan's obvious skill in writing multiple POVs.
Sanderson is the obvious point of comparison for this, because if you've read one of his books, you know that he makes you *feel* the magic his characters are using.
And magic plays a huge role in this book, both in the culture and the religion, as well as the action and battle tactics.
Promise of Blood falls under neutral, it wasn't boring or bad, but it didn't blow my mind.
I didn't get what I wanted though, but I almost did.Promise of Blood was a mixture of character driven and plot development.
It wasn't a page turner, so breezing through the novel was kind of a pain.
Original in terms of the recent Fantasy novels I've read.
I wanted action, I was craving for blood, but the novel consisted mostly of dialogues and strategies.
I'm not that interested with what's going to happen to the characters, so I'll most probably read the next novel next year.
2.5 stars rounded up to 3 stars because I know this book is better than I think it is! This was my third attempt to read this book and I finally made it through. I don't really know why it didn't gel with me- maybe something in the writing style? I didn't really bond with any of the characters. The magic system itself was quite different but even that didn't really inspire me. Meh.....
While the magic system (powder mages specifically) seemed to be inspired by Sanderson’s Allomancy, McClellan made it his own in this flintlock military fantasy.
We follow the third person POVs of three main characters and a secondary one.
Regardless, I really think he is quite a cool character (and also a very talented powder mage) in his own right.
Aside from having a Knacked ability which makes him really valuable as a private investigator and a dogged persistence, I don’t see what I hoped to be a spark of genius like that of Sherlock Holmes at all.
Light and action packed blockbuster of military (flintlock) fantasy.
One of those books that throws you straight into action and doesn’t let go.
Couple awkward dialogues and hard to believe situations (view spoiler)[ Arch-diocel who supposed to be celibate running biggest whorehouse in his own home so openly seemed a bit hard to believe; The “romantic” scene with Taniel finding out Ka-Poel’s age and stating his own - was cringe worthy – glad author is not into romance (hide spoiler)] but on the whole a very enjoyable read.Recommended for military fantasy fans, readers looking for a light action packed fantasy.
The time period is something akin to our French Revolution, and I feel like the author took a lot of inspiration from that entire era, especially when the King gets booted off the throne in the very start of the book.
There’s a much higher degree of simplicity to the magic in this novel than Sanderson’s, but no matter, I still found it interesting and highly exciting.
They always did what I expected them to do, and I would have liked if they showed a little more complexity.Tamas is the only character I found slightly memorable.
I looked at the author's Goodread page and compared my books to his - I noticed he's read the Malazan books (which are huge favorites of mine), but then I noticed a disturbing similarity - this spoiler is for the Promise of Blood and the 1st three Malazan books - so fair warning - it will spoil Memories of Ice (view spoiler)[ so Tamas breaks his leg, and at the end of the book it's constantly mentioned how he has injured it, but hasn't taken the time to get the magical healer to fix it for him.
That's higher than a lot of other reviews I read (well except for Sarah, who went with 1000/5 stars - I didn't even know we could do that!).
I asked myself what it is I want out of a fantasy read - great characters (none too perfect or too flawed), well-defined and believable setting/world building, unique and powerful magic system, mystery, intrigue, adventure, action, battles and surprises.
I wasn't as excited when the storyline switched over to it, but I still liked it.Characterwise, my favorites were Tamas, Taniel and especially Ka-Poel - so much mystery about who or what she really is.
I'm excited to find out more about her in the next book.
Going into Promise of Blood, I was a little hesitant for a couple of reasons.
That’s not necessarily a bad thing but I worry that my expectations tend to put a damper on my actual experience and I never want to begin a book with preconceived judgments and/or presumptions.Secondly, I quite recently completed the other front running flintlock fantasy series by Django Wexler, which I enjoyed very much!
Promise of Blood was so much different than I expected, and I mean that in a fantastically satisfying way.
With a start like this, the series shows promise to become a prized collection in my own personal library :)
Why would anyone think that even made any sense?Pretty early in my reading of Promise of Blood, I said, "An investigator looking into a mystery, an assassin-type chasing a mage, and then Tamas, just Tamas.
In addition, through the limited point of view characters, we begin to see that there's much more than a coup and it's inherent difficulties (riots, hangings, etc.), the king's cabal of mages has hinted at a much greater problem and hence the investigator mentioned above.McClellan can't seem to be mentioned without his former teacher, Brandon Sanderson, but it's hard not to.
Brian McClellan is like a grittier Brandon Sanderson, great story with interesting characters and a unique magic system.
Update: After finishing the whole trilogy and most of the novellas: I want to get into the adult fantasy genre but I am intimidated by the size and tedious world building: then this trilogy is for you! it has probably the most exciting and fast-paced introduction to the new world and characters I've ever read in this genre.I'm a fantasy buff and only well-crafted worlds and complicated magic systems satisfy me: Again, this is the trilogy for you! Throughout the three books and many novellas you
it has probably the most exciting and fast-paced introduction to the new world and characters I've ever read in this genre.I'm a fantasy buff and only well-crafted worlds and complicated magic systems satisfy me: Again, this is the trilogy for you!
What I loved most about it, is that from the first chapter you could actually see the world expanding at full speed before you, the magic system is so easy to understand, though parts of it that are still a mystery (looking forward to uncover it in the next books), and parts of it are just too funny to read about and actually take seriously, like the finger dance the Privileged do before unleashing hell on innocent bystanders...I'll probably die laughing before tasting their magic.The pacing was perfect, we just delve right into the last hour of a coup d'état.
