https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/365553.The_Oxford_Dictionary_of_Quotations
This is one of those books that I would never know if I had finished reading it because it’s not a book to read from cover to cover; but instead to dip into as and when the whimsy strikes. That’s also what makes it so much nicer to own a physical book with real pages like this sixth edition; simply because of its absolute immediacy in returning the rewarding results of random searching!
Oxford dictionary of quotations.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.Citation by: Jenni O'GuinType of Reference: DictionaryCall Number: Ref 808.88Content/Scope: A dictionary resource of over 20,000 quotations.
This is the 8th edition, with over 700 new quotations added to this new addition.Accuracy/Authority/Bias: Oxford University Press is the largest university press and the second oldest.Arrangement/Presentation: Arrangement is alphabetical by author.
With over 1100 pages, this hardcover book is cross-referenced with keyword index.Relation to other works: This dictionary can be invaluable as students add quotations to their papers and want to answer the question of "who said that?" as it offers a quote for every occasion.Accessibility/Diversity: This reference is slightly skewed toward the British culture.Cost: $50.00Professional Review: Vnuk, R.
This was part of my first order from Folio Society and has been a firm favourite ever since; whether I'm looking for the author of a favourite quotation, inspiration to express something myself, or just browsing while hanging on a call, or taking a break. The index makes it easy to hone in on an idea and explore it too.
I've got to say that this is one of the most poorly organized books of quotations I've ever read. Most people want to look up quotations by subject, not author, which makes the Oxford Dictionary the opposite of what most people want, and actually difficult to find a precise quote you're looking for.
I loved reading the different thoughts of different people. You can really just start from anywhere with this book and I gained some wisdom. The one that stuck with me is the watched-pot-never-boils part :3 It's so true!
A source of delight on a dreich day when slightly jaded to skim though and find delights. It's also naturally enough an invaluable reference book.
I want this book. I really do. This book contains everything you could possibly need to sound smart, witty, and informed. I need it.
Fun read! A lot of powerful quotations I had never heard.
Love just opening it now and again and reading quotations at random!
Obviously - I haven't really read this one cover to cover. It's one of those books that I've had for years and which I dip into over and over again.
I've never been much of one for quote books, but I rather like this one - a very handsome edition.
For the really good stuff read only the bold print :)
Always use for reference - fun to peruse as well.
An amazing resource I will return to again and again in the years to come. I was lucky enough to win a copy through a Goodreads giveaway.
A brilliant reference and a wonderful way to kill a lazy afternoon just flipping through the pages.
