https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17204.The_Friday_Night_Knitting_Club
Some of the sloppy writing and editing did turn out to be quite funny, such as when a character remembers visiting her grandmother in Scotland and they "sat by the fire wearing nothing but their socks." Since I assume granny and child don't sit naked save for their socks by the fire, it was good for a shudder and a laugh.
if she didn't die the ending would have to have been "and they lived happily ever after."Yah, bad book, story sucked, it was too long, writing was terrible, and it was obviously published just because the author has worked in publishing for years.
The whole Dividing The Book Into Chapters About Knitting To Symbolize A Metaphor For Life seemed too cliche.The entire first half of the novel is told in fits & starts as the narrator gives us every single detail of background information in every character.
X sighed and looked out the window."In a single page, only about three things happen in the present narrative line of the story.
Knowing that I couldn't sit through another quarter of the book of cancer-induced sentimentality, I decided to put it down.I prefer that my characters drive the action of a story, so that I can see growth and realistic plot lines.
The reviews I've scanned give me pause, but hey, I haven't read any blatant chick-lit in quite a while...we'll see.*****And one week later, I can say this: I hated this book.
I hated the way the author used nothing but sentence fragments.
Can you imagine reading this writing style for an entire book?Because it continues for the entire 300+ pages.You would think that the phalanx of editors and advisors that she thanks at the end would have put a stop to the madness and introduced her to the concept of the semicolon.
I think I read that it's being made into a movie, which doesn't surprise me at all.
That's several hours of my life I will never get back.The plot: Georgia Walker owns a knitting-yarn store in New York City.
And just as Georgia's life starts to change for the better, tragedy strikes.Well, let me tell you, this book was a tragedy.First, the character development was just plain shoddy.
I hear the author's coming out with a second book this summer; it's gotten some good reviews, so let's hope it does better.
Try the second, skip the first, and if you want domestic-women's fiction with alternating view points, try Judy Blume's Summer Sisters; Rona Jaffe's Five Women, or anything by Maeve Binchy.
The club consists of her daughter Dakota, a bi-racial 12-year-old, who flits in and out of the club with baked goods and entrepreneurial ambitions, and is as charming and annoying as any 12-year old; a widow named Anita who is Georgia's "mentor;" an "academic" named Darwin (who annoys everyone in the club as well as this reader); a 40-year-old single woman (who I believe works on a documentary about the knitting club) who fools a date into getting her pregnant; an aspiring purse designer and part-time worker in the shop; a woman in her mid-40s hoping to get into law school; and probably the most entertaining character, Georgia's childhood friend Cat (nee Cathy) who is an uptown socialite on the verge of divorce.
I picked it up and put it down for days not getting past the first 20 pages because the style of writing was frustrating and in the beginning I really didn't like the main character.
Being a knitter in NYC I wanted to like the book about the little yarn shop so I made myself keep reading.The style of writing did not improve.
It's hard to focus on a story when the writing gets in the way.Looking past the writing I still did not like the book.
Loaded with emotion, The Friday Night Knitting Club is about women who become friends through a knitting club that was formed by accident.
The knitting club forms when a handful of women start coming to the store on a regular basis every Friday evening.
These women come together and start to develop friendships that help get them through some stressful times in their lives.
I thought the book started out with a bang.
The second part of the book went from a thoughtful, emotional character driven style to a more story-telling narrative.
I probably read it way too fast.
Through the first half of the book I kept thinking, "how are they going to make a movie of this?" It was just all these separate women and their individual stories and none seemed to have anything to do with the others.
She said that she didn't want to burn money for her dead ancestors on Chinese New Year.
Anyone going to church likely isn't burning money for dead ancestors in any case.
Georgia decided Dakota could miss a little school since it was "just seventh grade".
When it was revealed they spend a month in Scotland, I figured she'd just missed the last week of school.
I guess because there's a part of me that feels guilty for completely dissing a book that someone has written.
I mean, I've never written a book, so what do I know?), but this book was terrible.
I didn't even have high expectations for it--had already categorized it as chick-lit--but even still, I found every character completely stilted and unrealistic and the plot uninspired, dull, and predictable.
This book will not make you want to take up knitting.
It may, however, make you want to fashion a noose out of yarn to put yourself out of your misery in reading it.
The author, though a professional editor, really doesn't know how to write.
I think she really wants the story to be a movie and if it is one, it will be one of those rare occurences where the movie is better than the book.
It's nearly like a long outline of a book that might be good when the author finally gets around to writing it.I found it amusing that the main character supposedly went to Harrisburg High.
There were a few parts in the story where I did feel inspired to knit and I liked that, but overall I hated the book.
And its the story of Anita, Georgia's "fairy godmother" who meets Georgia and helps her start her business and in doing that becomes her friend and the mother Georgia always wanted but didn't have.And with Anita's help, Georgia opens her store, raises her daughter and makes new friends (many that are VERY interesting characters) while (reluctantly [sp]) re-connecting with old friends.
And in the midst of everything is knitting and the love of that that binds them together.
It made me think and look at my own life and what I am doing (and NOT doing) with it!!!LOVED this book!!!!
Just "Meh..."I liked the blurb of the book and expected really nice, emotional and character driven story....The first quarter of the book was not too bad and looked like the story was going to develop and get going.
Petty rivalry, boring, flat characters, nothing really exciting.I had to force myself to finish it.
And "finish" is rather an exaggerated term.
I flicked through the pages, trying to read, struggling with boredom and desire just to put this book away not to see it ever again :))So, no, knitting is good as a hobby, but as a set up for a book, maybe not so much.
While the premise is entertaining, the executing left something to be desired.I found the characters to be shallow and not all that likeable, and the jumping between viewpoints to be distracting and choppy.
Georgia (to be blunt) gave me a pain with her stand-offishness, and I was not at all clear as to why other women flocked around her and offered her their undying affection and admiration.
And the idea of James and Cat returning to her life within a matter of weeks was WAY too coincidental.My favorite characters were those who got the least playtime.
Now that Georgia's gone, maybe we can see more of the rest of the group -- the more interesting members.
I don't know why I keep reading this book.
The reviews on the back were good, and claimed a relationship to Steel Magnolias and How To Make An American Quilt.Well, I think this is a sophomoric attempt to ride on the coattails of those great works.
Far too much parenthetical explanation of character - every time the author wants to add a new detail to a character's life/personality, she has to justify it in a parentheses.
But Jacobs just never measures up.I think I keep reading it because I actually paid money for it.
While I agree with Anna that this is not a great book, I did come away with two passages from the book that I really liked:When Dakota, Georgia and Cat went to Scotland to visit Gran, I liked what Gran said to Dakota:"But just so you know, that we are, each one of us--even poor Cat--held together by the invisible threads of our histories" (page 228 in the paperback)and when Darwin finally got her thesis started I enjoyed what she had written:"Knitting.
It starts out in a way that, I think, most of find ourselves in at some point in life: doing fine and not able to see how life could be better.
Craft groups become part of extended families.
This time I focused my listening (audio version again) on the relationship between Georgia and Dakota.
We only hear about it from Georgia's point of view, but we get a sense of the change coming as Dakota grows up and changes.
I would like to see a book from Dakota's point of view.
Perhaps this same book, but from her point of view?
I also like the various mother-daughter relationships in the book.
I really, really wanted to like this book.
I'm a knitter and loved the idea of a chick-lit/women's fiction novel focused around the relationships and craft that "stitch" together a knitting group.
However, I couldn't have cared less about the characters in this book.
They were wooden and one-dimensional, either representing a stereotype or a carefully constructed personality set up against a stereotype, almost so the author could say "Look!
I'm not being stereotypical!" The writing style was difficult as well.
This is a personal preferance of style more than anything.
I wanted the prose to feel like the softest baby alpaca running through my fingers.
I'm reading this for book club.
But books!
Not so much.I'm so through with adult books and young adult books.I hate chick lit.
I hate all of the stupid chick lit cliches this writer used.
I was liking this book, liking the characters and then, THIS PLOT SHIFT!
It's like those stupid girl movies when just as the female lead finds love and contently BOOM.
I know it happens in reality, but this is just an irritating as heck plot point, is what it is.
I'm going to read children's books instead.
I decided to read this book because it combined knitting and New York; two of my favorite things but this was disappointing.
But my Mom has taken up knitting again recently and when I saw this book at the library sale shelves I thought it might be fun to give it a go and then let Mom have it.
Besides, at fifty cents, the price was right!The front cover had a line that said the book was like Steel Magnolias only set in Manhattan.
So I was prepared for someone to die and someone to be born and at least one quick-witted, sassy woman in the bunch.That's basically what I found, but the book was not on the same level as Steel Magnolias.
My mother recommended this book so I picked it up at the airport on my way home from New Years.
Since I'm trying to pick the hobby of knitting back up, I thought it was appropriate.
I quickly fell in love with the characters, suddenly they became my own little hodge-podge group of friends and I was jealous of their "Friday Night Knitting Club" ritual.
Emotional too, I'm not going to lie, I cried a little bit.
If you don't knit, you'd wish you did.
If you do, you wish you had a place to go like this.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book. I loved the little nuggets of wisdom throughout, the concept of creating things to bring completeness to life and relationships, the friendship, the sisterhood. I need to go knit something now.
An interesting portrayal of an assortment of women living in Manhattan and drawn together in various ways to a small, privately-owned yarn shop which seems to spontaneously spawn a Friday Night Knitting Club.
Well at least they do in The Friday Night Knitting Club.
Other parts of the book which dealt with more dramatic situations, however, failed to move me in the same way.
Although life and death issues were an undercurrent of the book, God was most frequently a word of exclamation and not a person, force nor meaningful part of any of the character's lives.
i felt the story wasn't too shabby, but writing style/tone made me feel like i was reading a high schooler's creative writing assignment.
the ending, as jeni said, was surprising, and i think the author used it to separate it from its chick-lit sistren, but it didn't work.
it did make me tear up a LITTLE, and i was entertained, and the characters were likeable, but all this wasn't enough to pull it into a 3 star rating.
it's not like i was super pumped to read it, friends giving it only a medium rating.
Fue una pena porque viajaba sola y estaba en un lugar muy remoto y no había otro libro más.
Al final decidí dejarlo y encontrarme conmigo misma, jaja.
Lo abandoné, cual buen samaritana, en el lugar donde me alojaba, para otro viajero.
O mala samaritana, si era como yo, jeje.A favor del libro, también lo leyeron mi mamá y unas amigas y les gustó.
Pero a mí me dio entre frustración y somnolencia.
Eran todas las cosas obvias del mundo reunidas.
Me sentí atrapada en un laberinto de sinsentidos.Exagerado, sí, pero, buéh.
Al final me bajé del taxi a medio andar.
I really enjoyed this one. Even got a little teary at the end. There is one sequence in Scotland I felt dragged but overall an entertaining read.
I remember why I never read chick lit: bad writing, predictable characters, and a melodramatic ending.
"Now that I learned about this foreshadowing thing, I'm going to use it in all my stories!" That was the title of a story about John Grisham on the satirical news website The Onion, and I kept thinking of it as I read this book.
I hate to sound judgmental, but the author did romanticize the whole idea.I am reading this book now and debating whether or not to finish it - it's pretty obvious how it's going to end.
But if I'm going to read a mindless book, I want a mindless happy ending too.
I for one found this book to be incredibly beautiful and I really liked the author's writing style.I know how to crochet, a little, but this book has me wanting to learn how to knit and if there was a group to join like the one in 'The Friday Night Knitting Club' I'd be there in a heartbeat.
Georgia Walker is the owner of Walker and Daughter, a yarn shop, and she looks forward to her knitting group every Friday night.
Every time Georgia's 12 year old daughter, Dakota, baked her little treats for the knitting group to enjoy it made me hungry and wanting to bake some nice goodies myself.
The style in this book started out really rough.
Writing style is always one thing that kills my enthusiasm for a book.
But, good news, it did improve as the story developed, and I was a bit intrigued by the characters.
However, the author chose to delve into the lives of too many characters, and some of it worked (Anita) and some didn't (Lucy ...
Being a member of two groups that have a common passion that brings them together and forms strong bonds and friendships, I will give the book accolades for its story about 'knitting' women together and showing there is strength in numbers.
