https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149522.The_Shape_of_Me_and_Other_Stuff
This book is delightful and adorable! I love the illustrations and the magic of the shapes and rhymes. Plus it has a cute little message at the end. Very sweet and enjoyable.
Nothing to see here - just padding my 2017 reading list so I can reach 100 books. Shhhhhh, don't tell...uh...God...?
The silhouette illustrations were great and refreshing, tbh.
Classic Dr. Seuss rythm comes alive in this short 26 page book. Perfect for the early readers, this book has pictures to capture their imagination while conveying a clear message that being different is a good thing. Different is a positive message and one we really need to be reminded of in this current world filled with too many haters.
Accelerate Reader BL: 1.7Lexile: 440LI really like this book because it sparks the imagination and could be used for all sorts of teaching opportunities. I love the ideas behind it and although the illustrations are somewhat simplistic, they work well with the words on the page.Traits: Ideas, Presentation
Una valiosa lección: No importa tu forma o tu envoltura, pues, de todas las figuras que existen, tienes suerte de haber quedado en la tuya.
This book is fun to read and has a great message about being happy with our bodies.
So that's where 'The Shape of Water' comes from.I suppose this could be read as a proto-body-positivity tome. Or just something that rhymes well.
This book is delightful. I loved every word, and every rhyme, and every single silhouetted illustration.
The kids at the baby house loved this book. They enjoyed the pictures.
There are no challenging words so the students can easily sound them out while they are learning them.-If they want to challenge themselves, the students can cover up the writing and guess what the object is by looking at the picture (this could be used in the Read Aloud to make a Curricular Connection section to, just with the teacher being the leader and asking the students)For Narrative-This book can teach students about the importance of illustrations matching up well with text.
A great book for preschool aged children. Shows silhouettes of a variety of things and people. We traced my 3 year old son's outline on a piece of paper and called it HIS shape. He thoroughly enjoyed the book and activity.
Rhyming story about the shapes of different things. Everything is drawn as a shadow. There is no real story, just shapes of different animals and objects. Great for beginning science lessons for K and 1 on this topic.
In this delightful book, first published in 1973, kids are encouraged to ponder shapes they may never have considered before: "Just think about the shape of beans and flowers and mice and big machines!" Dr. Seuss's illustrations are in silhouette (for the purpose of accenting the outlines of figures), but are nonetheless up to par with his usual wacky, amusing style.
My main issue with the story is that some of the odd Dr. Seuss creatures aren't named all the time and Munchkin points to them and wants to know what they are and of course I can't exactly remember if they are from another book or what to call them.
silhouette and rhyme
My first impression of the book was that it was an excellent beginning level read aloud with lots of repetition and rhyming involved in the text.
For a read aloud this book could be used in order to began a unit on the subject of shapes of course.
It allows for students to see different shapes and the words that match them.
For individual readers, this book would be good to practice reading fluency.
It also exposes the reader of the book to nonsense words to check for phonetic awareness.
The repetition would allow for students to see patterns in the work by Dr. Seuss.
A boy and a girl discuss together the shape of themselves and reflect on how different the shapes are of everything else they see.
Even though the illustrations never show more than the shape of something, they have character and are fun and easy to relate to.
As you read it is easy to get caught up with the girl and boy in thinking of many other shapes.
I would use this book with young children to introduce them to what shapes are and discuss different shapes they might see.
On an admin note, this is a review of the board book. Goodreads, the policy needs to be changed to break out editions that are not similar to others. I have no issue with hard and softcover, and other combinations, but a simple board book with 20 hard pages and 5 words per page should not be combined with the regular version of a picture book.Onto the books. Dr. Seuss was the original in zany, and the combination of cute real shapes and Seuss-ities were something special. My son loves this, and the sing-song cadence really works.
An excellent beginning reader, this work uses clear repetition, large text and bold illustrations to assist readers. It discusses the different kinds of shapes objects can take, even when it's the same thing. For example, people's noses look different, yet they are still noses. Bubblegum can hold various shapes, too, though it is still essentially the same substance. Dr. Seuss expresses this concept using silhouettes, which may lack some of the brightness of his typical artwork, but certainly communicates his theme well. Highly recommended.
With his iconic rhythm and rhyme, Dr. Seuss discusses the shape of strings and other things. Cleverly, the illustrations of the shapes start out as monochromatic. This may help a young learner to distinguish between the concepts of shape and color. More simply, this style of illustration enables the reader to focus on the shape and not be distracted by other elements, such as color. The story ends in a positive message of self-image: "Of all the shapes we MIGHT have been...I say HOORAY for the shapes we're in!"
I enjoyed this books lot. It's classic Seuss with colorful pictures, witty rhymes and and wonderful lessons for all ages. I read this to a 22 month old and I'm assuming he listened to me while steadily biting the edges and beating on the book. Doesn't matter, I don't hide the fact now that I'm reading Seuss just as much for myself as the little one. I can/will read his books over and over and over and over.....
This is a classic from 1973, it has certainly stood the test of time. I loved this book and gave it 5 starts because I read it thought how beneficial it could be for children who are sharing their classroom with a low vision student. Students can use their imagination as this book is read aloud to them and experience a part of life through the eyes of they low vision classmate. Dr. Seuss books for me this morning, fifth to read this morning is a book about celebrating shapes.
It rhymes. It moves. And, for a Dr. Seuss book, it isn't insanely long and full of gobbly-gook. Naturally, this makes for a better than most read aloud.This would probably work best as one-on-one story reading where one could really take time and discuss different shapes. There's lots of outlines of weirdly shaped things and people and talking about what actual shapes make up each is probably a stretch for a full room storytime.
The Shape of Me and Other Stuff is a children's beginner book by Dr. Seuss. This book includes funny and very interesting illustrations that grabs the children's attention. This book helps teach the children their shapes throughout each page and its illustrations. It includes bright and different colors that also grabs the children's attention. This is a great book to use in my classroom as I am teaching the children their shapes. I will read this book to help them visualize each shape.
Personal Reaction - I loved this book because it is creative and written by one of my favorite Children's authors, Dr. Seuss! I really liked how the book encourages children to consider the shapes of many items.Purpose/Use in the classroom:Read aloud:-Unit on diversityIndependent Reading:-Students who love Dr. Seuss and his style of books.For narrative:-A good use of setting and theme. Dr. Seuss has a particular rhyme-based writing style that draws readers in.
This was a fun and whimsical little book. I liked how the illustrations were blacked-out and yet I still got the same feel as any Dr. Seuss book. The ending was nice, and the rhymes were bizarre. I'd recommend if you were a die-hard Seuss fan.*Taken from my book reviews blog: http://reviewsatmse.blogspot.com/2010...
A short fun rhyming book that would be good for early readers or little little ones. Also a good book to think about shapes and shadows. Could be a good read before drawing each other's shadow or outlining shapes of people, hands or feet. A really interesting and creative book that could be used in many ways.
This is a Bright and Early for Beginning Beginners Book. Many repetitive words which would be easy for a little guy learning to read. AND this storybook helps spark imagination and helps a child to think about shadows and what things are shaped like. My 4 year old granddaughter enjoyed trying to figure out what the shadows were.
The shape of me, the shape of you, the shape of lots of other things. Dr. Seuss explores shapes in a delightful little book, with his pretty rhymes, fantastic creatures and funny jests. It is a simple book, but a good past time for all and a good teaching tool for young children and people who are beginning to learn English. Plus, the title is very witty and the illustrations quite nice!
This book is still really good, but the art isn't the best of Dr. Suess. It's like more design-y what with its silhouette style, but Mom says that's to emphasize the shapes and all. I think that's a good point, but I just prefer all the silly visual details in some of the other books.
