https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/402.Mao_II
You just got lucky.Let's say you do want to read a short book for a long time.
Beyond the larger rages of the world, DeLillo's characters have this tendency to find themselves in moments of spontaneous intimacy with strangers, which would seem insincere if they didn't sometimes happen.
They had their own little moment of spontaneous intimacy, like fucking in a bed after drinking at the bar, and then she left town.
That's not a recommendation to read this particular book or this particular author.
“The cult of Mao was the cult of the book.”A writer is always said to bring wisdom and knowledge to his readers, to give them guidance, clarity of mind by using stories and instances regardless of truth as exemplars.
But nowadays, definitely post 9-11, terrorists and acts of terror have taken hold over the populace and what was once a mass that was affected by literary ideas now moved to terror’s rhythm of fear and self preservation.
A long time ago people read books and these chiefly inspired how they think, the choices they made.
Lastly there’s the French poet who has been taken hostage by a terrorist group in Lebanon and is kept in a tiny room with a hood over his head.
Bill has come to believe the writer has been usurped by the terrorist as the prime forger of world narrative.
When Bill flies to London to take part in a reading of the French poet’s work the suggestion is made that he might be able to facilitate the release of the hostage if he meets with the terrorist group.
Also, as is usually the case, DeLillo’s sentence writing achieves a more thrilling transcendence than any other living writer I know.
"The secret of me is that I'm only half here..."Andy Warhol says this & perhaps because I'm a such a nonfan of his I was a super nonfan of this.The novel infuses you with images and DeLillo attempts to do something wholly Warholesque with his own brand of literature.
There must be some poetry in the fact of that one missing writer is found & nudged into reading publicly the work of a fellow displaced writer.Here, nothing stays long enough to make sense.
The Novelist as Substitute Terrorist (Or the other way round?)I have a great deal of sympathy for DeLillo's protagonist, Bill Gray, alias Willard Skansey Jr. He has my fear of being over the hill.
A person sits in a room and thinks a thought and it bleeds out into the world.
A new understanding of the world?
More likely the unread masses, at least those not having read DeLillo, including all those dead folk born after corruption but before the DeLillian Enlightenment .And of course, authors don't fair much better.
Mi pare che questo pensiero critico di una studiosa del NY Times sia ben rappresentativo del lavoro di De Lillo del 1991, con la sua prosa concettuale e performativa: “Ma lo scrittore è ancora pericoloso per il suo impegno nell'estendere la coscienza.
Questo libro, ambientato tra New York e Beirut, riesce in qualcosa di molto difficile: esprimere un discorso complesso e coinvolgente sul senso del dolore collettivo, sulla distruttività agita dalle masse, sulla specie umana contenitore della “nostra parte lunare che sogna un suolo devastato”.
Another of the second tier of DeLillo's books, this one talks of writer's block and of the crazy marriage cult of Kim Jo Pak's Unification cult. Bizarre and full of action, it is well-written and a page-turner. It is however one to read after the masterpiece of Underworld.
I will have to read all those 6 other DeLillo books that I have in my tbr shelf.The story revolves around Bill Gray who is like Salinger, recluse and elusive.
One day, he lets himself be photographed (like Salinger) it made him popular until he becomes involved as a spokesperson for a Swiss writer being held hostage in Beirut.For me, my take on the story is this: novelists create dreams and this make them like "gods." Even if their works are not real, there are truths in them.
That's why authors like Salinger or DeLillo (although he is not recluse really) are being read.
Αλλο ενα απολαυστικο μυθιστορημα του Ντελιλο.
Θιγει λιγο πολυ ολα τα θεματα που εμφανιζονται σε ολα τα μυθιστορηματα του συγγραφεα που εχω διαβασει, με κυριοτερο την τρομολαγνια που επικρατει και την ελειψη κριτικης σκεψης απο τον καθημερινο ανθρωπο .τα πληθη χειραγωγουνται πια απο ψευδο-ηγετες που τους καθοριζουν τη ζωη με οπλο τον τρομο, ενω τα "μεγαλα μυαλα" της κοινωνιας που δινουν τροφη για σκεψη αναγκαζονται πια να ζουν σε απομονωση ή να υποβαλλονται σε ακομη χειροτερη μοιρα.
Μου αρεσε πολυ αν και δεν το θεωρω το καλυτερο εργο του Ντελιλο, ομως για αλλη μια φορα γινεται σαφες ποσο ιδιοφυης ειναι .3.5 αστερια
This is primarily a series of mobile and difficult dialogues—delivered by characters who all sound like Don DeLillo—centering upon the state of art, fiction, photography, and mass-phenomena in this, our modern age, when terrorism was on the verge of becoming the Next Big Thing—compared to fictional portraits or visual representations, a far more potent and pyrotechnic means of effecting changes in societies, of steering political discourse, of grabbing the world's attention and focussing it upon problems that were previously ignored.
I would actually like to return to this someday, especially in this new millennium featuring the Global War on Terror and that most horrific and course-changing of days: September 11th, 2001.
This is the only book I've ever read that I wanted to start reading again immediately after finishing it. I have read his description of two people watching the funeral of the Ayatollah Khomeini a dozen times. I wish I could have written that. The description of the mass wedding at the start of the book is also remarkable.
On the contrary.First, I'd like to say that DeLillo's writing style is as ornate and expressive as ever.This is more of a rambling discussion, a loose connection of thoughts on crowds, mass movements, the Unification Church, writers, New York, baseball, terrorism, and post-modernism.
Sometimes DeLillo goes for multi-page conversations, and sometimes for little aphorisms which you can repeat to impress your friends and sound wise.Again, the usual caveat with DeLillo: it's not really a novel so much as it is a collection of elements with the most tenuous connection of plot.
His musings on crowds and mass movements are intensely fascinating.
I could feel DeLillo grappling with something important as I read this book, trying to deliver something profound, and that feeling made me want to press on, to see where he was going, even though I found most of his narrative a slog.There were astounding moments.
DeLillo engages with issues and artifacts and concepts that our culture endows with the illusion of significance: architecture, the world trade center, terrorism and terror, belief, love, belief in love, religion, home and homelessness, art, the artist, photography, great men, and writing.
That both events are treated with the glibness and breakneck pace of news cycles isn't, in and of itself, reason to praise this novel, even if you consider that DeLillo does so as a commentary.
If that wasn't enough, he uses the dark corners of the book as a place to put his understandable fear of what happens when the TV news gains too much influence and the people who watch are so caught up in the spectacle of events that they miss the broader picture, the driving forces behind them.
I can't deny that Don DeLillo has great way with words but the lack of traditional storytelling prevented me from enjoying this novel.
DeLillo has always been good at capturing the way people actually talk -- syntax, cadence, etc.-- but his characters don't usually say things normal people say. They are always totally self-aware and generally pretty intelligent. They understand the psycho-socio-philosophical implications of lighting a cigarette; they get the significance of a half-second pause in a conversation. They can read each others' minds, finish each others' sentences. And this can be distracting, can take you right out of the book. But if you don't mind that (and I still haven't decided), DeLillo has a lot to offer.
It is a meditation on charismatic power and the function of literature in contemporary society, among other things.I have heard that Delillo flirts with radical ideologies but rarely espouses them directly, preferring instead to allow their language and intentions to creep from the mouths of characters here and there.
I think it is more likely, more useful, to see all characters, all situations, as products of the writer's mind, but not necessarily theses, not direct representations of belief or conviction, but merely maps of where that mind has been, seen in reflections and echoes and opposites.Delillo's writer, Bill Gray - a character struggling with the nearly stereotypical writerly miseries of solipsism, doubt, and hatred of one's own work - has internalized the idea that writers are obsolete in the contemporary world.
Uma interessante reflexão sobre o papel e influência cultural que a palavra escrita teve durante a história, e a forma como esta se alterou na sociedade actual.
O objectivo do autor parece ser mais o de refletir e colocar o leitor a ponderar sobre o tema indicado acima do que construir uma narrativa com principio, meio e fim.
No entanto, a ideia que transmite e a forma como o faz é de tal modo poderosa que dispensa uma narrativa demasiado limpinha, sendo um romance que permanece na memória do leitor muito depois deste o ter acabado de ler.
Even better upon a second reading, DeLillo books are ones that need demand two readings you read and see things with such vivid clearity, a wedding party escorted by a Russian Tank.
Hey America deal makers or diplomats, " Don't bring your problems to Beirut" or Syria, The novel can't compete with the war and death on the 24-hour news networks shown without remorse, we relay on the carnage seen on CNN so we feel lucking about drinking our Coke-a-Cola with out bombs falling on our heads feel less guilty becouase we are aware of the injustice even when CNN makes Billions of dollars of showing death!
We should step back perhaps, read more !
Some pages downright astonish with insights, masterfully articulated, into that postmodern condition of the threatened self versus collective/crowd, representation via words versus images, and the status and relevance of the writer-artist versus the terrorist, who harbinges their “decline as shapers of sensibility and thought.” Loving books as we do here, Scott’s introduction (browsing in a bookstore, feeling that familiar “fine excitement,” hearing the books “shrieking Buy me”) should stir us towards some delighted identification: haven’t we heard the same siren call?But other pages kinda annoy with some overlong descriptions of this one park and over-philosophisation, with certain stiff dialogue by even stiffer characters, admittedly with this latter probably being consistent with the loss-of-self theme featured throughout.
Video review DeLillo's signature mixture of splendid prose and jazzy broodings on contemporary life make it a priceless experience even when the pace slows down painfully. There's also some great humor here, and explosions. Would be an excellent introduction to his fiction if White Noise and Libra weren't somewhat fuller experiences.
This book, _Mao II_, is one that dwells on many relatively recent events (the Reverend Moon mass wedding, Khomeni's death), but even when read in 2006, these events hold meaning to the central points DeLillo is out to address--the influence of mass character over singular character, and the effect of art on the human psyche (and in this book, he even allows terrorism to enter into the world of art).
_Mao II_ may not be one of his greatest works and may not be pondered and scribed over like _Underworld_ or _White Noise_, but it is a great book, and I think many a DeLillo fan will cherish it for its precision and its thinking.
Even worse: “The state should want to kill all writers.
Every government, every group that holds power or aspires to power should feel so threatened by writers that they hunt them down, everywhere” (97).
But, even worser: “For some time now I’ve had the feeling that novelists and terrorists are playing a zero-sum game” (156)--“Beckett is the last writer to shape the way we think and see.
Similar concern as in White Noise: "Because we’re giving way to terror, to news of terror, to tape recorders and cameras, to radios, to bombs stashed in radios.
News of disaster is the only narrative people need” (42).
This is one of several plot developments that Delillo does not explicitly describe until well after they have happened: the reader is left to work it out and then see the details emerge as the novel progresses.What the mass wedding in the preface does is introduce us to the idea of crowds which is a repeating motif through the book as Delillo contrasts crowds and individuals (Gray is a novelist looking to reach a mass audience - perhaps, but we take time to explore Mao Zedong and Ayatollah Khomeini as well as Sun Myung Moon)."The future belongs to crowds."And"The cult of Mao was the cult of the book.
[...] And a person who becomes inaccessible has a grace and a wholeness the rest of us envy.""The narrower the boundaries of my life, the more I exaggerate myself.""The language of my books has shaped me as a man.""There's a moral force in a sentence when it comes out right.
It speaks the writer's will to live.""The deeper I become entangled in the process of getting a sentence right in its syllables and rhythms, the more I learn about myself.""This book and these years have worn me down.""Does writing come out of bitterness and rage or does it produce bitterness and rage?
Let him write ten words and he would come into being once again.""Is there time for a final thought?"
And I do think that the idea of faith to an ideal, whether it be art or some wider political struggle, is one of the stronger elements of the book and one of the more interesting concepts it wrestles with.Of course you don’t read DeLillo for the plot but as I mentioned before the plot really doesn’t go anywhere, the whole thing just falls apart and DeLillo is left awkwardly tying bows, as in the end Bill Gray dies somewhat peacefully and abruptly, the poet held by the terrorist cell essentially disappears and is rumoured to be changing hands across various organisations, the photographer Brita moves on to documenting terrorist leaders and the books ends as it started with the scene of a wedding.The way they live in the shadows, live willingly with death.
And we have the hangers-on, Karen & Scott who reminded me of a couple hippie squatters, living off Bill’s building legacy.
When Brita shows up to take his picture, it only take a couple minutes for Bill to get on his soapbox and spend the next ten pages ranting about how the novelist has lost all power - a power he believes they’ve held for over a thousand years.
We’re introduced to Karen in the book’s opening scene via a mass wedding.
And that was as amusing as Karen and Scott were.
This novel is about images. It depicts images from different perspectives. The image that the author has of himself, the world, and terrorism. The images a photograph takes of the author, of war, and of children playing in a schoolyard. This novel is about the image an insecure person has of themselves, and the image a lost soul forms of the world around them. This novel divulges the truth through images, and the fear reflected in so many ways.
Sobre el terrorismo en la era postmoderna. De los mejores del autor.
Even when I skipped to the end to find out the fate of the "reclusive writer" Bill Gray, I still wasn't at all moved.The only reason I picked up this book in the first place was because I'd heard the character was based on JD Salinger, but then Salinger's own work has so far failed to grab me in any real way, so maybe that should have been an indicator.
I have yet to read a good book by DeLillo, though I have since seen worse examples of his work in "The Body Artist" - and I know it's a minor point, but Bill Gray, as a character name?
