https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/551018.The_Sign_of_Jonas
Love this line from a review: just where is God in the midst of all these annoying people I can't get away from?
Furthermore, as the world outside the monastery was changed by World War II, nuclear weapons, and the Cold War, he became more and more divided between the worlds of "action" and "contemplation," between lives of political engagement and of prayer for the world -- he chafed at the lack of Church and monastic radicalism, and, like Dietrich Bonhoeffer, found silence and non-engagement an increasingly difficult path.Merton experiences both joy and despair because of his constant self-examination, heightened by the fact that he is also writing down what he observes, what he feels, what he's reading, what happens in his days.
A rich collection of reflections on prayer and the contemplative life along with a healthy dose of Merton's self-aware critiques of his own personal flaws.
Although a little less organized than Merton's other journal-style books, such as Conjectures of a Guilty Bystander, fans of Merton will find this book accessible and beneficial for understanding the context of his other books.
For instance, he complains often about writing one of his books, while he receives his first copy of The Seven Storey Mountain in another entry.
The energy of the writing ebbs and flows throughout, but he did seem to give up a bit on it toward the end of the book.
I have read some of Merton's journal entries, I have read parts of several of his books, but this is the first that grabbed me and would not let me go.
This journal is deeply personal; it is deeply filled with doubt; it is deeply filled with his love of Nature; it is deeply filled with a sense of silence; it is deeply filled with God. It is a progression through five years of his life.
I loved the humanity of Merton.
I loved laughing at his satiric humor.
Fascinating journal of famed contemplative writer Thomas Merton. His insights into the world around him and his love for Christ is apparent on every page. His wit often surprises at the most unexpected moments, and his observations about nature are unparalleled. Recommended for lovers of meditation and contemplative living.
Merton's journal published just five years after he entered the Abbey of Gethsemani gives refreshing insight into the Monastic life in the early 1950.
He moves between satisfaction with his new life and disappointment that the silence is not more total.In 1994, I began reading all of Merton's published journals (7) and finished each as they were published.
In the seven journals that were being published 25 years after his death, as he wished, we see some of those same struggles, but we also see a more mature spiritual man.
Throughout the journal, readers are taken through Merton's solemn vows as a Cistercian Monk, his ordination as deacon and finally a priest.
Although this is not true for the majority of the book, I would say that there is a sort of shift, particularly in the last pages, in Merton's spirituality as he becomes fascinated with the solitude of nature.
It is a very honest and easy to read look into the contemplative solitude of Gethsemane Abbey and into the heart of her most acclaimed writer and monk.
I read The Sign of Jonas because it was advertised as a sequel to The Seven Storey Mountain.
It is a sequel in the sense that the book picks up Merton's story after enters the Abbey of Gethsemani.
But The Sign of Jonas is interesting because the reader finds personal reflections on some important moments in Merton's life, including the publication of The Seven Storey Mountain, and his ordination as a priest.
(Some of his most profound theological insights are located in that chapter.) I read this book while on retreat at Gethsemani, from a copy found in the Abbey library.
"Fire Watch" is one of the most breathtaking essays I've ever read. It's beautiful.
It is a vastly different book from the "Seven Storey Mountain" and it is puzzling for someone outside of monastic community to appreciate the different flow of life, the frustration of lack of solitude and the joy of silence. However, the authenticity of Merton speaks, no matter how strange his life as a monk and a contemplative. This is a book full of otherness, with only a tread linking the Merton in SSM and the Merton in Gethsmani Abbey. One wonders the call of Spirit manifested in Merton and changed him several times over.
Merton casually I have long been a fan of Thomas Merton's work since I read a collection of his works as a teenager....his deep introspection and poignant observations on spirituality spoke to my soul. This work offers a different view of the man. Although it still contains much of the depth of thought Merton is known for, there is a lot of the day to day, humdrum, often humorous insight into the life of a monk included as well. Definitely worth reading if you've enjoyed any of his other work.
This book is a treasure & agree that it may be his most readable. With the date of 1953 it's good to keep in mind that it is about a specific time in a specific place as Merton himself states that in his prologue. Merton was a complex man with a life goal "to love God and serve him with with simplicity and joy."
What an experience to read the journal of such a faithful and thoughtful man of God. Merton’s quotidian struggles and joys in Gethsemani as well as his theological musings are a must-read for any contemplative soul.
A wonderful book. One of Merton's best.
Given that he states at least two times that "The Sign of Jonas" is not a spiritual journal (which one might expect some Trappist monks to be instructed to keep), I have to ask: What exactly is it supposed to be?
(When I say "spirituality of aloneness", I do not mean the monastic life of silence and contemplation; I mean our common condition as humans.)But really the magnificent part of this book is the three-page passage on God's love, his innocence, his shyness, and his utter generosity.
People who know me would be surprised to learn I read the diary of a Trappist monk.
While my personal lack of religious belief renders many of the author's sentiments baffling to me, I did find the book having a definite influence on my daily life.One of Merton's constant laments in the diary is that it is always too noisy in the monastery.
The first four fifths of the book are tedious as the author goes over and over whether his spirtuality is sincere enough, whether he is humble and simple enough, lonely enough, quiet enough, etc., etc.
Lots of stuff to underline as he seems to grow up a lot during the time he wrote this.p.10: "By making a vow of stability the monk renounces the vain hope of wandering off to find a perfect monastery."p.11: ..."because like Jonas himself I find myself traveling toward my destiny in the belly of a paradox."p.43: "On and off since Easter I have been playing a new game called insomnia."p.108: "Every minute life begins all over again.
My first duty is to start, for the first time, to live as a member of a human race which is no more (and no less) ridiculous than I am myself.
One of my favourites of Thomas Merton's books. His struggles, I found, were all too familiar. Good spiritual journaling.
He seems to be experiencing everyone you are even though he is a monk in a totally different world.
He seems to be able to explain the things one thinks about ordinary thinks and how God is a part of the world and oneself.
So it is not a journal in the sense I thought it was going to be.
It is a journal of life with all its thoughts and fears and little joys and how that all its into life.
It offers a real peace in a crazy world.
While I generally look to Merton because of his wisdom and the gift of prophecy that he has in reflection that is hard to find in many, that is not really the intent of this book.
It is essentially the diary of the events in a monastery and the struggle that takes place in giving a life towards God, yet still living selfishly.
I would definitely recommend this for those that are interested on the day to day happenings of a monastery and the ascetic lifestyle.
I would not, however, recommend this to regular fans of Merton's musings, as they are not in the same style.
I read The Seven Storey Mountain oh, years ago.
I mean it didn't radically change my world or anything and I ended up purging it in one of my Great Book Purges.
But the Sign of Jonas is really great.
It's his journal of five years in Gethsemani, during which time he makes solemn profession and is ordained.
His writings on writing, Catholicism, saying the Mass, prayer, Scripture...I could go on....but they all resonated deeply with me.
This is a side of Merton I don't think we really know--the side that loved saying Mass, that longed for deep contemplative prayer, etc.


I've been a huge fan of Thomas Merton's since I read his autobiography, The Seven Storey Mountain. This is an intriguing look at life in a 20th century monastery as told through his journal over the course of four years. Beyond the descriptions of the daily life of a monk, it's full of Merton's insights, wisdom, and struggles. Monks are human too. Merton's honesty and earnestness is refreshing. There are passages from this book that will stick with me for the rest of my life.
T. Merton's autobiography...hmmm...this is a very very deep fellow, but really-I think if anyone spends as much time in solitude in a monastery they would say pretty much the same things. I spend much time in solitude and seem to come to the exact same conclusions. Much of the book contains Merton talking about the rituals in the Catholic church, of which I know almost nothing about, which is why I gave it the 4 stars. Parts of it are actually funny.
I always loved this book as an antidote to the triumphant Catholicism of Seven Story Mountain. This book is where the spiritual rubber meets the road - just where is God in the midst of all these annoying people I can't get away from? Final chapter (Fire Watch) is, to my mind, the most gorgeous thing Merton ever wrote.
I loved bits and pieces, such as a beautiful exhortation on Divine Love, but by p.248 I had already been finding myself eager to finish the book. For example, writing about the poet Kenneth Patchen's Dark Kingdom, Merton says, ..."it does not make a deep impression and it cannot because it is only poetry." I could not disagree more that poetry cannot make a deep impression.
This journal would be of more interest to those already familiar with the Cistercian life and the pre Vatican 2 catholic church. Those seeking Thomas Mertons' trademark spiritual insights will be somewhat disappointed as those really don't show up til late in the book.
One of the most beautiful journals of spiritual meditation and memoir I've ever discovered. I go back to this book again and again for the insight and the beautiful prose. There are only a few books I would say have profoundly changed my mind and heart. This is one of them.
His journal from l946-52 (his 4th through 10th years as a monk). Beautifully written, full of insights, wisdom and poetry. Interesting to see how his spirituality developed over these six years. And his skill as a writer. Very Catholic, though, if that kind of thing bothers you.
