https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12326627-the-white-princess
I don’t know, I don’t know, I don’t know.Hey there, Elizabeth of York, what happened to the princes in the Tower?
Who killed your uncle George?I don’t know, I don’t know, I don’t know.Who is your mother plotting for?
I don’t know, I don’t know, I don’t know.What’s going on in Scotland?
What’s happening in Ireland?
I don’t know, I don’t know, I don’t know.How is Prince Arthur’s cough?
Seriously, what is the point of the book where the narrator knows absolutely nothing and does absolutely nothing to try and find out something, anything?
I DON”T KNOW!
The main thing is that we always, we always go on.” -Henry Tudor and Elizabeth The Tudor rose is symbolic of this union, the white rose married the red, peace and prosperity enters England under the ruling of a new King, Henry VII: But for Elizabeth she enters a cold marriage bed and a loveless relationship.
It’s a hard decision to make, loyalty to her brother or loyalty to the dynasty she has been forced to produce.
Her story is one of uncomfortableness; she is constantly being scrutinised for any sense of disloyalty by the King and his mother.
Great series. Good storytelling. Makes you constantly look at the family trees to understand all the connections. So much good drama.  About Me  For those new to me or my reviews... here's the scoop: I read A LOT. I write A LOT. And now I blog A LOT. First the book review goes on Goodreads, and then I send it on over to my WordPress blog at https://thisismytruthnow.com, where you'll also find TV & Film reviews, the revealing and introspective 365 Daily Challenge and lots of blogging about pl
Good storytelling.
So much good drama.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
I write A LOT.
And now I blog A LOT.
First the book review goes on Goodreads, and then I send it on over to my WordPress blog at https://thisismytruthnow.com, where you'll also find TV & Film reviews, the revealing and introspective 365 Daily Challenge and lots of blogging about places I've visited all over the world.
Thanks for stopping by.
Note: All written content is my original creation and copyrighted to me, but the graphics and images were linked from other sites and belong to them.
Many thanks to their original creators.
All his goals were achieved and he was obviously an excellent politician and administrator who prevailed over all of his many enemies.Gregory contends that young Elizabeth of York was madly in love with her Uncle Richard.
All in all this doesn't sound like the kind of guy beautiful, young Elizabeth of York would have been madly in love with at all.
Obviously Gregory doesn't like Margaret either and thinks she was behind the disappearance of the princes in the tower and might have even been the one that had them killed.
Elizabeth, mom and all those younger sisters come to court with the expectation that she’s going to marry Henry Tudor (view spoiler)[the winner at Bosworth Field (hide spoiler)], but Henry and mom Margaret Beaufort don’t seem to be in any hurry--->>>real spoiler (view spoiler)[ebil Margaret wants to make sure Elizabeth can conceive a child before the happy nuptials and orders Henry to rape her.
"Two years pass before we conceive another child...""Instead I will be the shape that my husband's mother wants: a rounded fertile pear of a woman, a vessel for Tudor seed, a pot.There is still the mystery of the fate of Elizabeth’s younger brothers Edward and Richard, who disappeared from the Tower of London never to be seen again, and not a body to be found anywhere.
At 57% in – over 300 pages – I still didn’t care or connect to any of the characters within, the plot was flimsy and totally lacking substance, the attempts to create tension were thin, artificial, and failures, and I frankly have no interest whatsoever in finding out where the story would go or where Gregory would take the characters.The same scenario plays out over and over again, characters have exactly the same conversations, recycled ad nauseam.Elizabeth of York: I’m so sad my Uncle Richard died!
DNF - he rapes her and then they fall in love? I don't know how historically accurate this is, but I'm not here for this mess...
I've had mixed luck with Philippa Gregory, pretty much half and half. It's either amazing or at least very interesting & well-told (The Wideacre trilogy, The Constant Princess) or it's been so-so to downright dull and/or frustrating in a bad way (A Respectable Trade, The Changeling, and THIS ONE.) It's this off-and-on experience that put her back on my to-read list after a rocky start with Trade and keeps her there. She can tell a great story and create unforgettable characters ( Wideacre Wi
One book would read like the others, I'm assuming, and thus the rest of the series is very low priority in the TBR.So, making a very passive person the narrator is a huge problem, as is the present tense, which makes historical fiction read like someone reporting on events in a shallow, list-checking way.
There's only so much "our love was perfect" starry-eyed high school notebook scribbling I can take.Gregory's not averse to making things up out of whole cloth and I respect her for owning it and being the creator of said fictions instead of taking cover under far-fetched auspices, such as psychics or whatever Elizabeth Chadwick uses in lieu of imagination.
Like it or not, the Plantagenet and Tudor eras are a major locus of interest for HF readers (I actually prefer the 19th century and rather wish a PG of this era would arise for me to pick holes in mercilessly enjoy) and what with the movies and TV series and whatnot, you get kind of sucked in.The White Princess is chronologically situated at the very end of the Cousins' War aka the War of the Roses, being the story (or part thereof) of Elizabeth of York, whose marriage to Henry Tudor (aka Henry VII) was intended to legitimize Henry's claim to the throne and put an end to all that nasty infighting between the Yorks and the Lancasters.
Philippa Gregory attempts to strengthen her cry in “The White Princes”, the final book in the “Cousins’ War” series.I am not a fan of Gregory’s claims of historical accuracy and I compare her novels to the same realm as Carolly Erikson’s “historical entertainments”.
Although, there is a showdown between Margaret Beaufort and Elizabeth which is not only climatic but also causes the reader to re-think Margaret’s personality and actions and encourages further research/thinking.The conclusion of “The White Princess” is weak and focuses mostly on a Gregory-created curse that Elizabeth and her mother fictitiously cast which results (in Gregory’s eyes) in the real-life ending of the Tudor dynasty with Elizabeth I.
My true self will be hidden and history will never speak of me except as the daughter of one king, the wife of another, and the mother of a third.I absolutely loved this book.
Lastly, I enjoyed reading about Henry VIII as a baby and a child, I only wished that the book continued through his teenage years.I highly recommend this, and the rest of the series, to anyone who enjoys easy-reading historical fiction.Can anyone please recommend books about the French Revolution written in a similar style?The Story: The haunting story of the mother of the Tudors,Elizabeth of York.
Not gonna lie, I love Philippa Gregory's books.
This book in the Cousins' War series was very interesting regarding Elizabeth, Princess of York.
What I found interesting is the "curse" she and her mother put upon whomever killed the lost princes of the Tower of London.
I won't give it away but if you know Tudor history and/or you've read her other novels, you will see what becomes of this curse.
This book explores that in a most interesting manner.
I absolutely LOVE these books!!
Little did I know that this book is really the story of her brother, Richard Duke of York, told from her insipid first person point of view.If one is going to write the story of Perkin Warbeck or Richard of York, why not just write that story?
Perkin/Richard is always "the boy", RIII is always "my lover", everyone keeps asking "what d'you think/mean", and Elizabeth's answer to every question is always "I don't know".
The novel could be 100 pages shorter if the author wasn't so condescending to the reader.Within the first few pages, the characters had been forced into their stereotypical roles of scheming former Queen (Elizabeth Woodville), scheming want-to-be queen (Margaret Beaufort), naïve-lovesick pawn (Elizabeth of York), and insecure cruel tyrant (Henry Tudor).
I have never put those words in a review before.The novel brings the War of the Roses series to a conclusion and merges it into the Tudor series (The Constant Princess would logically follow from the conclusion of this story).
I'm very glad Ms. Gregory wrote the Tudor books and The White Queen first so that I know that, somewhere, she has some knowledge of the time period.
The "mystery" that is "solved" by the novel has nothing to do with Elizabeth of York so even the title of the book is misleading.
If you have read all of the other books and really want to finish the story, go ahead and wade through this tome.
I owe my (limited) knowledge of the Tudor line to her.
What's more, this particular tale has a bit of mystery to it because no one knows for sure that "the boy" who claimed to be the lost Prince Richard of York was or wasn't the prince.
Gregory uses this lack of knowledge to her advantage and gives us her own version of what happened, while still taking care to stick to the true dates and battles, etc of the time.
Gregory follows three set patterns for telling this story and they are: 1) Elizabeth and Henry start to make some progress on their affection for each other and Elizabeth says something that makes Henry not trust her again, 2) Elizabeth goes and pleads for mercy for "York" traitors, and 3) Henry comes to her, demanding to know what she knows about the current plot against him and Elizabeth's response is "I don't know".
I just pretended I never saw a picture of Elizabeth of York while reading how radiantly beautiful she was, pity I read it basically once in each page and at some point the thing just sounds too self-referential, however documented it may be.
Plus, Gregory's idea of psychological portrayals consists in iterating concepts as if the reader's too dumb to keep track of them, but after one says Elizabeth was in love with Richard and had to marry the man who killed him those fifteen, sixteen times, well, one must picture everyone got the point.
This is my most anticipated book of the new year!! A mainstream historical novel of Elizabeth of York!! I'm such a dork, but this woman is truly a fascinating creature!!! -Mother to Henry VIII, -Sister to the lost/murdered princes in the tower,-Beautiful eldest daughter of Edward IV and Elizabeth Woodville,-Supposed mistress/lover to her blood uncle, the infamous and doomed Richard III,-Ultimately, her marriage ends the terrible Cousins' War. I had no idea this was Gregory's next book! So excited!
It was like reading a National Enquirer version of Henry VII's life.The book debunks any idea that Henry deserved to be King.
He is driven mad by seeing everyone as an enemy and continually looking for the Lost Princes.Don't think Elizabeth comes out nicely in this version.
She and her mother put a curse on the killer of her brothers last seen in the Tower.
Here's the curse- the person who killed them will have their oldest son die and then the oldest grandson.
Really?I cannot recommend this book at all.
There's plenty of good things to read but this isn't one of them.
She also bids you to remember in Henry VII's reign that another two young men, Edward the Earl of Warwick and the boy Perkin Warbeck, also died at his command.
I have to admit that on finishing this book, I had tears for Edward V, Richard Duke of York, Edward Earl of Warwick and Perkin Warbeck, four lost boys, all victims by virtue of their birth.
4.5★For interest sake, Perkin Warbeck (purported to be Richard, Duke of York): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Perkin_W...I now have to read Perkin (Perkin: A Story of Deception) by Ann Wroe
There is no action outside of her having conversations with people - very little actually happens in the book that we as readers get to see or experience, and Gregory spends almost no time allowing us a glimpse into what Elizabeth might have been thinking or feeling, usually reserving that to a few sentences per chapter.
The only particularly fascinating character in this whole book was her mother, Elizabeth Woodville -- the only person in the book to actually *do* much of anything at all, and I could imagine her to be a compelling person.
If you have ever thought you might have enjoyed being a princess, prince, queen or king, this book ought to make you think again.
Having met her in an earlier novel, The White Queen, which was told from the point-of-view of her mother, Elizabeth Woodville, Elizabeth seemed someone with whom I already had a relationship and affection.Gregory is a complete master of her genre.
While her women are always fully drawn, this novel exceeds itself in making of Henry VII a complex and tortured soul, driven by an insatiable mother.
Having recently finished The Red Queen, the story of Margaret Beaufort, I was prepared for how unpleasant she could be.
If Henry did, in fact rape his future wife, would that be in keeping of the brutal times they lived in?
Elizabeth was the daughter of a power couple, could she have quietly wanted to fly under the radar- I wouldn't be shocked if she did.
Sounds to me, Gregory presented a girl who just wanted to be safe, her children safe, and if she did it with a no nothing attitude- well, she wouldn't be the first in history.
She gave the whole story legs and made me want to read about Henry's infatuation with Warbeck's wife.
This book should be called I don't know or about a boy, though that one is already taken. My ears are literally bleeding from all the repetition. But king Henry VII kind of grow on me.Update: Review is finally on my bloghttp://thestuffdreamsaremadeof21.blog...
I like the character of The White Princess more than her story. Rereading this series is kinda ruining my fond memories. Maybe it's just cause I know what's going to happen? Original Review:Second favorite installment in The Cousins War Series.
Read This Review & More Like It On Ageless Pages Reviews!The Cousins' War series continues with the story of Elizabeth of York - granddaughter to Jacquetta Woodville, narrator of Lady of the Rivers (book three in the series), daughter of the protagonist from The White Queen (book one), daughter-in-law to the main character of The Red Queen (book two), and niece to Anne Neville, the focus of The Kingmaker's Daughter (which is book four).
The White Princess ends with 10 years left in the reign of the fist Tudor king, and with a sixth book due out (The Last Rose), Gregory's novelization of the War of the Roses will continue - likely from another character's point of view.
Given the character development of Elizabeth of York as seen in "The White Queen" and "The Red Queen," I was expecting a spirited young woman who is put in an awful position (she was going to be queen whether Richard III or Henry Tudor won) and rises above it to produce one of England's most notorious monarchs.
And even though she's a supporting character, she's still as annoying as ever.2)So is Elizabeth from "The White Queen." She's older, but still the same conspiring twat from her book.3)Henry Tudor is thoroughly unlikable.
Yet again another PG tale that I couldn't wait to end, when it finally did; I almost cried with joy.I like Philippa Gregory's books, they are quite often very good, but I haven't read one yet that wasn't overflowing with annoyances.In this one, Henry VII is so paranoid, that it became nauseating.
It wasn't like he was going to believe his wife anyway, so why bother?On Elizabeth's end; if I had read one more time how much she loved Richard, was meant to be with Richard, should have been with Richard; I don't know what I would have done.
Also, I grew weary of Elizabeth constantly repeating Henry's questions to her as if she were a parrot.
Without being so detail oriented that you feel like you are reading a text book (as some I have read are - heavy on details, light on the people themselves), she balances the need to be able to imagine yourself legitimately in the late 1480's royal courts with a peek inside the lives of the King, Queen, and all of those who surround them.In this incredible book, we are witness to the court of Henry VII who became King by defeating King Richard III of the House of York at the battle of Bosworth.
The White Princess is the daughter of The White Queen (currently airing on TV right now) -- which means that it follows Elizabeth of York, Henry VII's wife.
For my AS history course I studied Henry VII, so I thought this would be a particularly interesting book to read as I already had some background knowledge about the period.
I suppose that studying a king's actions and a king's person are very different things because, quite honestly, PG's portrayal of Henry VII is really incredibly difficult to like; perpetually fearful for his crown and security, he is constantly, unremittingly paranoid, always moaning and snapping at everyone -- or just plain absent.
