https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/174471.From_a_Logical_Point_of_View
Quine thinks the world is fundamentally matter; thus, he rejects the existence of spirits, and, more surprisingly, of minds—at least minds as distinctly different metaphysical objects.
If I’m not mistaken, Quine’s belief in something so abstract as a logical set is motivated by his famous indispensability argument—that we ought to believe in the types of things our theories of the world need.Quine’s materialism is tied to two other isms: holism and naturalism.
For, as already noted, logical positivists regard the meaning of a statement to be its verification; but Quine believes—and I think quite rightly—that statements do not exist in isolation, but rely on a whole background web of beliefs and doctrines.
A brilliant work from the 20th century-philosophy: on universals, dogmas, useful myths and efficacy in communication.The philosophical issues treated in this book are very important indeed.
In fact, they explain nothing less than what really exists in our universe and how mankind can deal with this universe through pragmatism (language).Essay 1: On What There Is.Universals of bound variables (e.g., redness) are useful myths.
Reductionism is only pragmatic.Essay 3: The Problem of Meaning in Linguistics.This text treats the problem of significant sequences (phonemes and morphemes) in speech and the notion of synonymy.Essay 4: Identity, Ostension and Hypostasis.Concepts in an unconceptualized reality are not more than language.
How many possible men are there in that doorway?" To admit that each 'idea' of the man is a separate existing entity is silly.For what can method can we use for our ontology?
Therefor meaning is not found in the named object.Quine proceeds to criticise the notion of the existence of Plato's Universals.
"we can view utterances as significant, and as synonymous or heteronymous with one another, without countenancing a realm of entities called meanings." Therefor we can have the notion of 'red' and say of multiple objects that there a red without admitting the existence of a universal 'red'.
---Read this and reviews of other classics in Western Philosophy on the History page of www.BestPhilosophyBooks.org (a  thinkPhilosophy Production).---W.
V. Quine is best known for striking a (nearly) deathly blow to the analytic philosophy school of logical positivism, and the essays collected in this volume From a Logical Point of View: Nine Logico-Philosophical Essays chronicle this attack.
A must read for readers interested in analytic philosophy, philosophy of science, logic, empiricism, and mathematics.---Read this and reviews of other classics in Western Philosophy on the History page of www.BestPhilosophyBooks.org (a  thinkPhilosophy Production).---
Quine the destroyer...
Let's start with a confession, I don't understand formal logical systems as well as I probably should.
Turns out if you're in a really pissy mood due to work-related crap and poor relationship decisions, formal logic is the last thing you need, so I wound up skipping a couple of essays, something I'm normally loathe to do.
Sorry, W.V.O. Keeping you on my shelf for when I've got my shit together enough to delve headlong into your more logical/mathematical work.Confession aside, while it was slow going, this is unquestionably essential reading for anyone who thinks about philosophical issues.
Meaning in linguistics chapter is very helpful. Quine was an avowed atheist and not without contradiction in his writing. He is among the most difficult and cerebral authors that I'm encountered next to Nietzsche, who was spasmodic. The sophistry of Quine is more disciplined if equally disagreeable.
I'm not sure why people keep saying the `Two Dogmas' paper is the most significant in this text. While it is required canon for analytic philosophers so, too, is `On What There Is.' Don't do yourself the disservice of not reading at least both!
I'm not sure why people keep saying the `Two Dogmas' paper is the most significant in this text. While it is required canon for analytic philosophers so, too, is `On What There Is.' Don't do yourself the disservice of not reading at least both!
Yeah ‘Two Dogmas of Empiricism’ is cool but have you ever read ‘Identity, Ostension, and Hypostasis’?
Rozdziałów ściśle logicznych nie czytałem. Pozostałe 4 rozdziały bardzo dobre
"Nonsense is indeed mere absence of sense, and can always be remedied by arbitrarily assigning some sense" (p. 150).
#-#-#-#-#-#-#-#-#-##-#-# TO READ #-#-##-#-#-#-#-#-#-#-#-#
Essays that sum up Quine's approach to analytic philosophy.
The most important essay in the collection is "Two Dogmas of Empiricism".
Originally published in 1951, it is one of the most celebrated papers of twentieth century philosophy in the analytic tradition.
The essay is an attack on two central parts of the logical positivists' philosophy.
The other is reductionism, the theory that each meaningful statement gets its meaning from some logical construction of terms that refers exclusively to immediate experience.
There, Quine turns the focus to the logical positivists' theory of meaning.
The collection as a whole is a classic of twentieth-century philosophy.
This collection of essays includes one of the most famous essays in twentieth century philosophy, "Two Dogmas of Empiricism"; these being 1) "a belief in some fundamental cleavage between truths which are analytic, or grounded in meanings independently of matters of fact, and truths which are synthetic, or grounded in fact." and 2)" .
reductionism: the belief that each meaningful statement is equivalent to some logical construct upon terms which refer to immediate experience." Fortunately, Quine advises to abandon them.
Another effect is a shift toward pragmatism." A step back towards Sextus Empiricus, but not enough for this skeptic.
I strongly recommend this book if you like logic and philosophy of language a whole lot, because it is a classic and you will find it extremely interesting! If you do not want to do philosophy as your literal job you may instead find it extremely boring, and it may make you wonder why anyone would ever do philosophy as a job, although, in fairness, this book may make you wonder that even if you do philosophy as a job yourself.
I read the first few essays and got bored. I enjoy his style, which is compelling in its own way, but I also find it less than exciting. What I read was mainly focused on language and its capacities of use. I will probably pick this up again.
Two Dogmas of Empiricism is the key essay in this book. I am hoping to find a rebuff to the logical positivists for a paper I'm writingn but it's pretty technical.
A must-read for anyone interested in analytic philosophy and logic.
Check out "Two Dogmas of Empiricism" for the incipient paradigm shift in 20th century philosophy.
This is an absolute classic.
i've read some of the papers. a nice digest of quine's philosophical views.
Finally taken was able to finish reading this book. However, I suspect that I didn't get the full picture that Quine imagined, but nonetheless, the contents of the book were certainly rigorous.
Read: "On What There Is"
