https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7148256-the-red-queen
Another strong contender in this series.
I am really excited with the different characters and the connections across the books.
and the little pieces we got to know about her in the first book in this series held her up to one light and standard.
But now in this book, dedicated to her, it's a whole different thought process.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
I write A LOT.
And now I blog A LOT.
Leave a comment and let me know what you think.
Many thanks to their original creators.
I found this odd, because Margaret as depicted here is not a woman to forget the fact that she has a title.)Margaret, as those of you who have read the early reviews know, is convinced from early childhood that she is chosen by God to do great things, just like Joan of Arc. When she bears her only child, Henry Tudor, she becomes equally convinced that her God-granted destiny is to put her son on the throne.
Gregory pushes the 1469 Battle of Edgecote into 1470, making it the event that restores Henry VI to the throne, and she has Elizabeth Woodville give up the Duke of York before, instead of after, Hastings is executed.
After reading "The White Queen" I (like so many other people according to Margaret's constant complaining) was enraptured with Elizabeth Woodville, her speculated witchcraft, her relationship with King Edward and so on.
Reading this novel was like reading a hidden diary of one of the crazy religious people you hear about today (Fred Phelps, for example.)If this is truly an accurate depiction of what she was like when she was alive I am not surprised by the fact that her grandson became a womanizing glutton who went crazy from syphilis.
She is a devout Catholic; thus, she is convinced that God is on her side; therefore, it is God’s will that her son, Henry Tudor, will be the next king of England.
Though, in the Red Queen’s defence, she was right about one thing:Margaret is, ultimately, right in her conviction, but her unwavering faith that she, and her son, would be victorious was a little too much.
Personally, I think it’s the Tudors that killed the York boys, they had the most to gain: they had the strongest motive.
Now is the Spring of this woman's discontent...Cause, I mean, talk about bitter!In Philippa Gregory's The Red Queen the prominent historical figure from the War of the Roses period and eventual mother of King Henry VII, Margaret Beaufort is portrayed as one who felt God had destined her for a higher calling, of which she was robbed, and for which she was forever after embittered.
Margaret Beaufort has an obsession with Joan of Arc. Gregory seems to lack the necessary skill to create a character’s personality through subtle means, through showing instead of telling, because she seems to hit upon one phrase or theme to associate with a character and then repeats it over and over again throughout the novel.
Since many of the battles occur outside of Margaret’s experience, Philippa Gregory is rather stuck, unless she wants to write a string of messenger scenes, which would be authentic but fairly dull for us as readers and mean that we would have no action whatsoever throughout the novel.
I have no idea if Margaret Beaufort was as she is depicted by Gregory, but her fictional alter ego is the most unlikeable person that I have come across in a novel in years.
Margaret Beaufort had a rough life in many ways, and maybe her single-minded devotion to see her son, a virtual stranger, on the English throne as the last of the Lancasters is admirable at times, but neither of these characters have personalities that make for good company page after page after page, and Gregory does little but give a superficial understanding of who they were or why Jasper Tudor or anyone else would love Margaret.
She is married twice with no say in the matter; her last marriage she negotiates for herself.I appreciate this book.
I appreciate the hard work and research Gregory had to put into writing it as accurately as possible.
There were times Gregory had me laughing - this woman prays for everything, but also interprets God's will always with an eye to her advancement, and the kingship of her son.
Gregory lays out the problems women have at this time.
And once you give a woman a little book-learning, why maybe she will get ideas beyond her station, know what I mean?
The 2013 BBC One television series The White Queen is a 10-part adaptation of Gregory's novels The White Queen (2009), The Red Queen and The Kingmaker's Daughter (2012), and features Amanda Hale as Margaret Beaufort.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: پنجم ماه آگوست سال 2012 میلادیعنوان: ملکه سرخ - کتاب سوم از مجموعه تودورها؛ نویسنده: فلیپا گرگوری؛ ترجمه: منیژه جلالی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، البرز، 1390، در 400 ص.، شابک: 9789644428067؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان انگلیسی قرن 20 مداستان یکی از شورش‌های انگلستان توسط یک زن را روایت می‌کند.
او که وارث خانواده‌ ی لانکاستر و دخترعموی پادشاه وقت انگلستان است، پسر خود را به‌ نام پادشاه: «هنری» نام‌گذاری می‌کند.
مارگارت می‌خواهد پادشاهی را به خانواده‌ ی خود بازگرداند که پادشاهان حقیقی انگلستان هستند...
. نقل از متن: «صدای برخوردی می‌آید و ضربه‌ ای به سرم می‌خورد و من، حیران بر روی کفپوش اتاق خوابم نشسته‌ ام.
This is the second book from this author I've read.it does tell you alot of information from the first book,but still enjoyed reading this book.its terrible how you get forced into a marriage at a young age just to have an heir to the throne,and if it's a boy the baby they will save instead of the mother.great read want to read more.
Historical fiction is a passion of mine and I personally think that Philippa Gregory is one of the masters of the genre.
However I felt it worked well within the context of the novel and really seemed to link the first and second book in the Cousins was series.Margaret Beaufort is not the easiest of characters to like and I did find in places that I wanted to escape from the first-person narrative in places.
You could skip chapters (I wouldn't but the possibility is there) and still understand what was going on.As to narrative Gregory stuck to repeating the same things1) How much of a whore, witch and beautiful Elizabeth Woodville was2) It is God's will that her son be King3) She is destined to be Joan of Arc likeThis got really reaaaaallllllllyyy boring after a while, I kept going because I thought it would get better, sadly mistaken.Magaret was a stuffy, over-religeous, greedy,patronising,obsessed woman and as much as Gregory tried to make her slightly positive with her comparision of the inspiration of Joan of Arc she couldn't disguise it.

2.5 starsMargaret Beaufort wants to devote her life to church but is instead maried off to Edmund Tudor when she is 12.
After her son Henry is born, Margaret devotes her life to get him on the throne.I don’t think I’ve ever hated any character so much as I hated Margaret!
I got it, she’s pious person and loves to spend time in praying.
I read that way many times.I think the book suffer from first person narrative.
Margaret spends most of her time in the countryside and much of the happenings must be told in letters.
I am listening to this book via audio, and I can honestly say I'm not enjoying this as much as I usually enjoy Philippa Gregory's books.
This book is very political and while it involves the Court, it's not such a big part of the book.
I feel like the book is mostly a monologue, Margaret droning on how things are unfair; it's unfair her son isn't King, and how she's in captivity, and things just never seem to work out her way...even THOUGH she is close to God. Actually, I did find it amusing when her own husband questioned whether she could hear God's will, or whether she could only hear her own.
I really think that Margaret is completely oblivious to the fact that she is acting for her own purposes.
داستان دختری ساده ای از خانواده اشراف انگللیس که میخواهد قدیس باشد.
می خواهد با عشق ازدواج کند.
اما می بیند در دنیای اشراف عشق جایگاهی ندارد.
رفته رفته خود او مانند سایرین می شود.
دیگر احساس به او فرمان نمی دهد بلکه جاه و مقام به او انگیزه می دهد.
او همیشه سعی می کند مانند قدیس رفتار کند، اما جاه طلبی های گناه آلود خود را با خواست خداوند اشتباه می گیرد و برای رسیدن به مقام ملکه مادر از دورویی، خیانت و حتی فرمان قتل کودکان فرو گذار نمی کند.
4,5***
Shvatam, Margaret, tvoj sin će naslediti presto, Elizabet Vudvil je manipulativna kučka, ti si baš poput Jovanke Orleanke, sve što želiš da uradiš je božja volja, čast je važnija od inteligencije, nesposoban kralj je božji izaslanik zato što je kralj, tvoj muž je idiot zato što nije impulsivno derle, voliš svog sina mada to ne pokazuješ, zaljubljena si u Džaspera mada to ne priznaješ ni samoj sebi, prezireš licemerne osobe poput one odvratne Žakete Rivers, ali sedenje na dve stolice i slanje pisama čas jorkistima, čas lankasterovcima je sasvim u redu.Da ne prezirem ovoliko junakinju i da se u romanu nešto događa, možda bih i nastavio.
The rise of Henry VII and the beginning of the Tudor reign, as told through the eyes of his mother, Margaret Beaufort.
I always love Phillipa Gregory’s take on history, and I accept it for what it is--not history, but historical fiction.
Who knows what I would have thought of Margaret if I had known her, but I found her a bit unlikable.
Having really liked Elizabeth Woodville in Gregory’s The White Queen, perhaps it was more difficult to like this woman who imagined herself so holy and above others.
A bit better than TWQ, and will appeal to PG fans, but perhaps not the serious Ricardians.http://misfitandmom.wordpress.com/201...
This book is about a magnificent woman who survives abusive parents, relationships, separation with her son and triumph against all odds.Brought up by a mother who dislikes her and constantly thinks of her more as a nuisance and a misfortune to her than a daughter who deserves to be loved and cared for; young Margaret beauford grown to be a devout christian woman.She dreams to become a nun, however her unloving mother forced her to be married at the age of only 12 years old.
She was forced to give up her son under the care of loyalist york.Many will think of her as a bitch and a wicked woman.
At one point she says: "Elizabeth Woodville is to blame for everything." She never understood the best man in the book, Henry Stafford (her second husband), whom she regarded as a coward although he was a warm-hearted person who refused to rush into battle.Gregory has chosen, in both QUEEN books, to contend that a) Richard the III was NOT guilty of the deaths of the Princes in the Tower, and b) that Elizabeth Woodville saved her youngest son Richard by substituting a poor child in his place.
I found some of this book interesting, but for the most part, it dragged.
It was way too repetitive, even by Gregory's previous theme-repeating standards.
I ended up skim-reading the second half of this book as the persistent rants and rambles just wore me down.Philippa Gregory is such a hit and miss author.
This is my eighth book by her; my ratings range from two stars to five.
It’s strange how she can make some books exciting, dramatic and moving, yet others remain slow and soulless.
It's good to bring religion in - it was a religious age - but I'm not sure Margaret was in any way 'odd' in this regard.Touching on this, I was bewildered by her apparent admiration for Joan of Arc.
*We* may admire Joan in our own time, but an ultra devout English 15th Century noblewoman of the Lancastrian persuasion would be highly likely to regard that lady as an evil heretic.
Yet in this novel (which is written first-person) she does not, instead referring to herself by such unlikely titles as 'Lady Margaret Stanley'.
Having just read The White Queen and feeling attached to Elizabeth Woodville (both mother and daughter), you feel like someone is picking a fight with one of your friends every time Margaret calls either a whore.
And, God knows, I would be His willing instrument if He would just put the weapon in my obedient hand.It is no comfort to me that I despise the court, that I never loved my husband, and that my son was born only to fulfill my destiny, and if he cannot do that, I don't know what use we are to each other.Of course, this is in part why I really enjoy Gregory's books.
This criticism isn't against the author, it's just what you have to deal with in historical fiction based on real life.When Margaret was a child, her prickliness was actually cute.
However, it seemed like she only cared about her son for what he could do for her-make her the mother of a King.Some of the interaction between Margaret and her brother-in-law Jasper Tudor was really romantic, but neither of them really went the extra mile to be together.I really started to get frustrated with Margaret at her careless treatment of her second husband, Henry Stafford.
Margaret was married at 12 and had her son at 13 yrs old.
The horror of the high risk of dying in childbirth was relevant to all women as was a wife's position as a possession of her husband.
Well written from Margaret's point of view.
A scary believer in 'God's will' as long as that coincided with her ambition for her son's destiny.
A good companion to The White Queen also by Philippa Gregory about the Women in the Wars of the Roses or the Cousins war as it was called at the time.Re reading Dec 2016 to 12th January 2017.
Read a while ago, and I loved it at the time, but if I read it again I'd probably not like it as much. I don't remember much of the story, besides the fact that Margaret was quite bitchy, but I kind of enjoyed that because my middle-school self couldn't quite grasp that cruelty does not equal amusing. So if you're reading my review and thinking "Wtf is wrong with her, this book is freaking horrible!", then keep in mind that my rating is probably quite off if I were to read this again.
It’s difficult to claim her rightful place in history when Yorks and Lancasters are at each other’s throats, refusing to recognize the supremacy of the rightful royal heir: her son, Henry Tudor.The Red Queen is the second in Philippa Gregory’s The Cousins’ War trilogy.
She’s a far cry from Elizabeth Woodville, the protagonist of The White Queen, who is used like a pawn in her mother’s political ambition, rather than a willful participant.
She’s a difficult protagonist to relate to; unless you’ve lied, schemed, and murdered to scrape your way to victory, there is little to ingratiate Margaret to contemporary reader sensibilities.
Philippa Gregory, bestselling author of ‘The other Boleyn girl’ in my opinion is one of the best writers of historical fiction connected to the Tudor period.
She brings to life the fiery, heated passion and rivalry within the dangerous Tudor Court through in-depth research and acute perception that is so assured.
As a fourteen year old mother and wife to an older man, Margaret focuses on the more radiant elements within her life such as her son Henry whom she is set on becoming King.
Capturing the turbulent times perfectly with such dexterity as a freshly sharpened blade, I highly praise and commend Philippa Gregory for such a gripping tale.
