https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1837665.You_re_Lonely_When_You_re_Dead
At the point when Vic Malloy, head of Universal Services - an association undertaking any employment that a customer needs done - is contracted to watch a tycoon's significant other associated with compulsion to steal, it is simply one more standard task - until the point when an administrator chipping away at the case is all of a sudden and severely killed.
Appearances with this uncommon circumstance, Malloy is resolved to vindicate the demise of his administrator and , playing a solitary hand, embarks to discover the executioner.
In this book - "You're Lonely When Your Dead" Mr. Chase is writing about a California PI, and he does a fairly good job.
His ingredients contain the proper mixture of good lookin' dames, an abundance of bad guys, bumbling cops and lots of wealthy characters.When I read a bit of background on Chase it was intimated that he wanted to emulate Mickey Spilane.
I really did not see that comparison, to me Mr. Chase read more in the vain of Raymond Chandler.
The book was quite entertaining, however Chase got some of the dialog wrong, showing his European Education.
Breezy Raymond Chandler-by-numbers thriller from 1950 by the prolific Chase. Set in Orchid City and San Francisco, there is a PI with a tough moniker, Vic Malloy, a millionaire to hire him to spy on his gold-digging wife, plenty of dames (mainly of the "no-good" type), world-weary cops, a couple of murders, a sprinkling of seediness and some snappy dialogue. Very much like a second-feature thriller, and best consumed as a single-sitting, fast-paced, undemanding piece of entertainment.
Great book - another Vic Malloy special. This time, he's hired by some man who thinks his wife might be a pickpocket. But after two murders and a frame that nearly gets Vic hung, he starts to think there's more at play than mere pilfering...Damn good read.
Nice read!
This is a drama + murder mystery I enjoyed reading after a long time.
Considered quite salacious for his times, Chase's characterisation and story reeks of objectification of women, with deeply sexist attitude pervasive throughout the book.
This was my first Hadley Chase book and I was told that it was one of the "less intellectual" thrillers one opted for when my parents were in grad school and now I know why.
This one's another crackerjack from the maestro, which features one of his main characters, Vic Malloy, Head of Universal Services, Orchid City.
Malloy had been hired to watch the lovely Anita Cerf, whose millionaire husband suspected her of being a kleptomaniac.
Although she had a shady past, she was an ex-show girl, but she was definitely not a kleptomaniac.
The case had now become personal for Malloy, and he had no leads, except for a geogeous red head, Gayle.
But Gayle had her own dark secrets, and Malloy came to know in the very end that she held the key to the whole affair.....
Liked it. The story kept me guessing till the end. But few knots were left untied at the end.. But worth a read typical JHC... keeps u guessing till the end...
a nice detective story. lots of shooting, chasing and love making. The plot is too straightforward though and not so elaborate I think.
gets boring by the time of getting all threads together
I never get tired of reading Chase thrillers. They all are same, yet different. This one had a climatic twist in addition to the usual suspense and thrills. And it was good.
Never ever disappointed with james hadley chase...
Highly enjoyable. Great plot.
