https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/133499.Comanche_Moon
It was one very emotional read, filled with so much angst, violence, and thankfully, love, and although it was beautifully written, at times it was very tough to read.
I loved Hunter and Loretta together, but at times I feared that they were never going to make it.
And when he told Loretta he loved her and she said she'd never be able to love him...ah, that just about killed me.I also have to mention Loretta's cousin Amy, who at times almost stole the book.
After surviving an attack by Comanches that killed her parents, Loretta Simpson has been left emotionally scarred, unable to talk.
This is probably my third read (maybe more), and unlike many older Native American romances, 
The story is somewhat long-winded, and the back-and-forth between Hunter and Loretta dragged on for too long.
It’s not in the same class as my favourite, and in my opinion the best Native American historical romance ever - 
But after three reads and over twenty years, this remains one of my top picks in Native American historical romances, despite its faults.Steam: 2.5
*sighs*I was so impressed, and even more intrigued and excited to read Comanche Moon, after having read Catherine Anderson’s Letter to the Readers included at the beginning of the long-awaited 2008 reprint, that I have decided to share it with you here (below) in the hopes that in will encourage you to read this amazing book, too.I’m so pleased that this book has been reprinted and is available for a reasonable price, so that I was able to enjoy it….
I don't think a non-fiction book could have given me this experience as well, because the emotional component was there as we had Loretta who represented the settler side, and Hunter who represented the Native American side.
Many times I wondered how a happy ending could come out of it, but I was satisfied with the ever after for the couple, although you know that future for the Comanche people is bleak.
If you want to read a wonderful love story that is at times brutal but also beautiful, I heartily recommend this book.
I can't wait to read Comanche Heart, the story about Amy and Swift Antelope.
Magnifico, único, inolvible!! Me encanto!!!
It pulls me away from the happy ever after and all I can think about is violation a sadness.However, the rest of the story was just what I wanted and expected...the language barrier wasn't there, because Hunter is half white and understands a lot of English.
Girl needed to use her brain a little more at times.Despite a few minor quibbles, I will most definitely be moving on.
The next story is about the girl who was violated in this book and the young Native American boy who brought her back from her despair.
5+ stars – Frontier/Western/Historical RomancePowerful...that’s the one word that I would use to describe this book.So much has been said about “Comanche Moon” and there are numerous glowing reviews, and for very good reason.
When reading this heartrending account of the conflict between white settlers and the Comanche people, with hatred, fear, ignorance, goodness, cruelty, innocence, vengeance, and bloodshed on both sides; I kept thinking how distressing it is that humankind still hasn’t learned from violent histories and past mistakes.
All over, there are conflicts and atrocities that mimic the tragedies of the past.
Empecé con un enganche tremendo porque la historia me conquistó al instante.La verdad es que es una historia bonita, pero...
Cuestiona quiénes son los malos en una guerra, ¿unos, otros?, ¿no son realmente todos los que pierden?.
Todo eso con una historia de amor entre enemigos naturales.¿Qué me ha fallado?
Los incontables abusos a las mujeres me han agotado mentalmente.
He vuelto a pensar una y mil veces qué desafortunadas han sido las mujeres a lo largo de la historia por no contar con un simple detalle: fuerza física.
Total, que me he quedado con una sensación agridulce.
Lo único que puedo decir es que no se cómo duré más de dos años con este libro en mis manos sin animarme a leerlo. Definitivamente hay un tiempo para cada libro, que bueno que me decidí porque es PRECIOSO!, BELLISIMO! Me encantó!
This book was fantastic . I was hooked from the first page and had to finish reading it in one day - not much work done in the office. It was honest, moving, heart aching - I think the author portrayed the era very well. Nice to have some Comanche language used also. Loved the heroine. Cannot wait for the next installment and Amy and Swift's story. Highly recommend this book.
Si os gustan las historias ambientadas en el antiguo Oeste, con una gran (maravillosa) cantidad de indios (Comanches en este caso), que tienen personajes rotos y que poco a poco van sanando y creciendo, con un amor que se cuece a fuego lento, muy, muy lento, y con protagonistas que se te clavan en el alma para siempre, este es vuestro libro.
Y ya que estoy aprovecho y os pido que si conocéis historias de indios y de amores interraciales me recomendéis, soy toda oídos (ojos en este caso xD)
http://www.virivillarreal.com/2016/01...No se como lo consigue Catherine Anderson, pero en sus novelas (al menos en las que he leído) siempre consigue "pellizcarme el corazón" un poquito cada vez.
¿Cómo es posible que hasta los nombres propios los traduzcan?
Me refiero a que desde el primer libro a nuestro protagonista le pusieron Cazador.
Debo decir que siempre (en serio, como...
SIEMPRE) imaginaba que decía Hunter, lo siento, así soy.
No conformes con el fiasco de nombre que pusieron a nuestro prota en el primer libro van y le ponen Veloz al siguiente...
In this story you are thrown into the struggle between them, and how tragic it was on both sides.Loretta’s parents were murdered during an Indian raid 7 years earlier, and she witnessed the brutal rape and slayings.
She lives with her aunt and uncle and young niece on their farm.Hunter of the Wolf‘s wife was raped and murdered by white men, while she was pregnant wit his child, years ago.
Now he must live a song that tells of him falling in love with a white woman who cannot speak.Their story is worth every minute it takes to read it.
There was a prophecy that the Comanches believed about a yellow-haired woman, who didn't speak, would meet and love Hunter of the Wolf.
There was a lot more to the prophecy and it played out, gradually, throughout Comanche Moon.Both Hunter and Loretta developed so much from the beginning to the ending.
Comanche Moon shows the dark side of both White and Indian cultures, but also shows how alike they were.
So looking forward to the next book in this series, "Comanche Heart" and know it picks up several years AFTER "Comanche Moon" with Amy Rose and Swift Antelope.
Years later, he watched as his Cheyenne wife and son (view spoiler)[were murdered by white soldiers.
The detail of the heroine’s mother’s mutilation, the discussion of Amy's rapes, Loretta's spankings, being pinioned to the ground, kicked in the head strong enough to see stars, assaulted by her stepfather -and- other people gutted, burned and scalped are not what I favor when I read a love story.
(hide spoiler)]And, (view spoiler)[I absolutely do not understand why the author introduced the concept of Loretta accepting her fate as Hunter’s second or third wife in the last quarter of the book.
La escritora se sale por completo de los tópicos, y no es sólo una historia de amor sino que va más allá de eso.
Es una lucha entre dos pueblos, la historia de dos personas que odian por completo lo que el otro representa, el dolor de tantas desgracias y la muerte de forma brutal de muchos a los que amaban.Los personajes están muy bien construidos, incluso los secundarios, y las relaciones están perfectamente elaboradas.
Incluso las relaciones entre otros personajes del poblado.La autora consigue bien hacernos ver que no hay buenos ni malos, hay bandos como pasa en toda guerra o conflicto.
Preciosa historia, maravillosa, reflexiva, se nota que me ha encantado? no se por que me resistí tanto tiempo a leerla, pensaba que el tema de los indios no iba a gustarme, y me encantó, me fascinó esa manera de hablar de Cazador, ha sido un libro maravilloso, me he pegado un madrugon para terminarlo, pensé en restarle una estrellita por falta de epílogo, pero me di cuenta que sabremos mas de ellos en el siguiente libro y eso es bueno no? como diría mi hermoso Cazador. lo recomiendo totalmente, derechito a leer el de Amy y Antílope veloz.
Si pudiera, le pondría las seis estrellitas! Decir que me ha gustado es quedarme corta. Me ha destrozado. Y realmente felicito a la escritora por esta magnífica historia y por tener la valentía de escribirla y sacarnos del confort del algodón rosa.
There were times when reading this book that I was appalled and fascinated and fought an overwhelming sadness.
And in the end, you realize, as Loretta did, that there wasn't really a right or a wrong, that things were what they were, and all you could do was make the best of it.And though there was a happy ending for Loretta and Hunter, I was still a bit sad when I finished because at this present time, the history of the Native Americans has already been written - and it wasn't a pretty tale.
Una joya. Precioso
There is some sort of a prophecy (Always a good start right?) where a Comanche warrior is going to meet a "honey haired" woman and ummm...
She asks Hunter' "Why would you want to be with me?" and I as the listener, said to myself, "Not for any good reason, that is for sure." But I guess he likes her and decides to change his white man killing ways.
(Except for the one guy who is the bad Comanche, he doesn't like white people at all.)Another thing I found bizarre was, well, the number of times the woman is tied up.
It is a powerful, intense and brutally honest story of two people caught up in the ultimate forbidden love...how they defied decades of history and the steadfast customs of two warring nations to follow their hearts and be together.Hunter of the Wolf is a fierce Comanche warrior who, for good reason, has devoted his life to "fighting the great fight" against the white man.
Being the Alpha male he is ("you are my woman so you do what I say"), Hunter decides Loretta is going with him so he trades 50 horses (all stolen from nearby white neighbors LOL) to her uncle and squires her away.
Catherine Anderson really can weave a great story with heart pounding action and a tender passion between two very different people.
I wish I read it instead of listened to it.
Although the story itself was amazingly good, the reader's voice left much to be desired.
At times you can hear her swallow and smack her lips, but most annoying was the voices for Hunter and Loretta.
I've listened to a few hundred of books so I can easily seperate story from the readers voice if need be, but this one was a stretch even for me!
When I read Comanche Heart it will be the book version.
Maravillosa historia!
Me ha encantado de principio a fin.
Ambos protagonistas me han robado el corazón.
Ella por su fuerza y corage y él porque es un hombre de pies a cabeza, amable, cariñoso, comprensivo, lo que tiene que aguantar el pobre en algunas ocasiones!!
Y, en todo caso, el trato que le da a Loretta es impecable.
La historia de amor es preciosa, se cuece a fuego lento como a mí me gusta, les da tiempo a conocerse y a amar lo que ven.
Ahora no sé si atreverme con el resto de la serie, creo que tengo las expectativas demasiado altas y no quiero llevarme chasco!
Está muy reflejado la lucha interna que sufren los dos durante toda la novela, porque el dilema moral que se le plantea a la protagonista es increíble, seriamos capaces de convivir con quien nos ha hecho tanto daño??
Muy bien ambientada y desde luego voy a seguir leyendo el siguiente libro de esta saga Creo que es de esa historias que se quedan clavadas en el corazón por todo lo profundidad y por no ser tan típica romántica del Oeste.
A mí me encantan la novela con mucha carga psicológica, con muchas batallas internas.Recomendable para todos aquellos que no busquen la típica de amor romántica y una historia como mucha carga psicológica
There’s your gruesome warfare on both sides, an okay heroine and a hero with potential but it just missed the mark in terms of coming together as a good love story.
I can appreciate a “reticent” heroine but at some point she has to let go to show that she loves the hero otherwise it might as well be historical fiction not historical romance.
I wanted more emotional investment from the h/h and what I got was a general love story with a lot extra info that should’ve been wallpaper but turned out to be nearly main characters themselves.
There is so much to say about this book, but I feel like I'm late,because everybody has read it already and rated it as well.Even though everything about this book has been mentioned already, I'll try to keep my review short.This was a wonderful, perfect romantic story.
I guess it has everything you are looking for when you pick up a book in this genre.
Definitely my fav in this genre.
I liked it even more than LK' books, so I will be trying more books by this author for sure.
Straight to my favs shelf!
the coming together of polar opposites to meet and walk as one literally has you sobbing one minute and rejoicing the next.
Anderson gifts you with the heat of the sun, the sound of horse hooves beating the earth, the whispers of the flowing streams and the vibrant colors of war paints...and even though it will truly hurt, she gifts you with the pain of loss.I recommend "Comanche Moon" to absolutely anyone no matter your reading style.
You will end this fine novel with a new perspective of others that are different from you...no matter who you are or where you come from we are all the same.
We mourn the same...we rejoice the same...we love the same...
I cannot imagine what editors were thinking when they asked author Catherine Anderson to change her story if she wanted to sell it, but we should be very grateful that she didn't listen.Most romance readers, like me, will have heard of Comanche Moon even if they haven't read it.
Whatever you want to call it, reading it's an experience worth having.Catherine Anderson brings her story to life, portraying with gritty realism the journey of being a white woman ripped away from everything she knows and held captive at the complete mercy of the savage Comanches.
Having grown up in a family of cowboys, then taught and grown close to many Indians on various reservations, I find most novels dealing with the subject so trite and cliche-ridden that they sound silly and only end up annoying me.
Both the white and Indian characters were written honestly and intelligently.
Ms. Anderson doesn't white wash the problems but deals with them in a way that is both disturbing (as it should be) and moving.
The love story between Hunter and Loretta seemed real, honest, their problems and the way they overcome them believable.
Bravo, Ms. Anderson!
