https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11938640-jewish-fairy-tales-and-legends

This was a delightful, quick read. I was enchanted by many of the stories, and many of them felt very homey and familiar, like I'd heard a version of them before. They really did seem like Jewish fairy tales. Many of these short tales would make great bedtime stories.
these had a lot going on, it was almost overwhelming
David and Goliath meets a rabbi.
In this book I was reminded that this was a story about Jews, and Jews are different from other people, on every page many times.
In other fairy tale books the hero saves his village or his family.
In this book heroes save the Jews - which is always a race in this book, not a religion that anyone can adopt as in the Catholic book.My favorite thing about this book was the emphasis on wisdom.
If the Buddhist and Catholic stories said over and over "Be kind, be kind, be kind," these ones said, "Be wise, be wise, be wise."
A lot of cute stories. Some of the stories feel like the equivalent of Bible fan fiction giving insight and fleshing out some of the characters, such as Abraham. This had the story of Abraham and smashing the idols. Also had a few others like one about David. It's good to help flesh out the characters.
This one is a blast!!!As a complete and total fairy tale addict I can vouch for the completeness of story, the style of writing, and the heart of learning. Give it a try!
Türkiye’de Karakarga yayınlarından ‘İbrani Masalları ‘ adıyla çıkmış.Diğer ülkelerin masallarına ilgi duyanlara tavsiye ederim. ^_^
Interesting collection of stories of "indeterminate origin"This was an easy read, taking only part of an afternoon to finish.
I found the notion that Alexander the Great viewed "luminous" fish as I seem to recall those being a twentieth century discovery.
I think it would be safe to conclude that this collection of stories are BASED on Jewish fairy tales and legends with many liberties taken in their retelling.I did find the similarities between the story of the red slippers and Cinderella entertaining and wish there had been more documentation concerning the origin of the included tales a nd their approximate age, country/region of creation, etc.


