https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/908940.No_Roses_for_Harry_
Grandma has come to visit and she has brought a gift for Harry. She has knitted him a doggie sweater. Harry feels warm and snug in it, but he just hates the flowers. His dog friends all laugh at him when he goes for a walk. He decides to get rid of the sweater. How he does that and what happens after is the subject of this story.
I like this one just as much as Harry the Dirty Dog. Both are favorites from childhood that today's children enjoy also. They're funny and enjoyable for adults as well as kids.
3.5/5 - cute story about a dog named Harry and his mischievous adventures trying to avoid having to wear a girly sweater.
I reread it for the first time since childhood yesterday and yep, I still think it's great.
I think maybe I could identify with Harry having to wear something he didn't like (although for the most part my parents let me dress myself, which, let me tell you, was brave of them), and it's nice that in the end Harry gets his way without hurting anyone's feelings.
And so, you know, I wanted to make sure it hadn't somehow become inappropriate over the years, like maybe Al Perkins' The Digging-est Dog sorta has (I haven't reread that one myself though, so I'm reserving judgment).
Anyway, I still think it's great and have no reservations whatsoever about giving this to a baby.
Read for Storytime, June 20thTheme: DogsRead at Storytime April 4th.Theme: Classics that every kid should readI love the Harry books. This classic involves the inventive way Harry tries to rid himself of his new sweater covered in roses.
"No Roses for Harry" is a great book. I really enjoyed it. I love dogs and this.book is perfect for kids who love dogs.
Mom rating & child rating both 5.
Per the child, "I liked it because he (Harry) doesn't like the roses, but a bird got to use it (the sweater) for a nest and grandma got him a new sweatshirt that was polka-dots.
We discovered the Harry books from the 1,001 Books to Read Before You Grow Up (book that lists them by age with details about the publications such as nationality and year along with a blurb).
Definitely check this title out, we've discovered a lot of our favorites because of this collection of lists.
Harry, the beloved white dog with black spots, gets a gift from grandma, a sweater with roses.
He goes on an outing with the children--everyone that passes, human, or dog, starts to laugh--he decides it is time to lose the sweater.After several attempts to lose it, it kept getting returned to him.
Then, he finds a loose end--he starts to pull.
A bird swoops down and takes the end, and flies away with all of it.
Later, when on a walk, the sweater was found with a bird nesting inside.Next year, grandma gave him a new sweater--white, with black spots.
No Roses for Harry is about a dog who receives a sweater from his grandma for his birthday and its green with orange roses and he does not like it.
He does everything he can to try and get the sweater off but nothing works, until a little friend takes Harry's sweater and turns it into something useful.
i really enjoyed this book and teaches a good lesson that even if we don't like something other people may like it or find it useful.
I would use this book in my classroom as a read aloud and possibly for teaching inference to get the students to figure out what will happen with the sweater.
All children can relate to this story of being forced to wear clothes they don't like. I remember this one time, when I was maybe six, my mom made me wear a brown corduroy jacket with a purple shirt and a paisley ascot for a trip to the Sears photo centre. Who makes a little kid wear an ascot? Anyway, I obviously have unresolved issues, which may be why I identify so strongly with Harry.
I'm not sure what to think of this book. Harry the dog receives a gift that he doesn't really like, and tries to loose it. In the end, the gift is helpful to someone else, and Harry is happy with a new gift. What is there to learn?
Delighted me as much in 2018 as it did when I first read it in the 60s as a child !
Another cute tale about Harry!Ages: 3 - 7
My mom would read it to me. Loved it. Still do. Ingenius little twist on problem solving, lol.
Nice story for children about thinking of others especially when they give you gifts you might not like
📀 story
Harry the dog received a hand-knit sweater from Grandma. He disliked it because of roses all over it, so he tried to lose it. Funny story.
I read this book in the 60s and 70s. I liked it then. I love it now. I think it's a great story for children.
An adorable addition to the series! It was so cute seeing Harry's sweater unravel and the role the bird played in its journey.
If you want to destroy my sweater hold this thread as I walk away.
My family is particularly fond of this book because we also have a grandmother who buys sweaters for our little dog, who isn't fond of all of them.
Love this story!
This is one that I remember Mom reading to us as kids.
First published the year my mom was born, it's now a classic picture book that kids can still relate to today (especially with the continued trend of dressing dogs *cue bewildered head shaking*).
Harry the Dog is dismayed when his birthday present from Grandma turns out to be a truly hideous green sweater covered in orange-ish roses.
As a bonus, it's part of a series, so if they want to read more about Harry, they have three more books to choose from: Harry the Dirty Dog, Harry and the Lady Next Door, and Harry by the Sea.
It was published in 1958 and I think my (taped & well-worn) copy of this charming tale was printed then.Harry receives a gift from Grandma: a green sweater with yellow roses.
When Grandma comes to visit, Harry doesn’t have his sweater!
Zion’s story is delightful.What is it about Margaret Bloy Graham’s drawings?
In this book, they’re line drawings with two colors- in this case, the green & yellow that are in the sweater.
A house with windows with curtains and plants, clothes on the line, a toy truck, the sun, the trees, the other dogs, all in green & yellow.
A 5-star story just as fun and enjoyable today as it was when written in the 1950s.
Unfortunately, Harry does not like to wear roses on his sweater at all and begins to plot to get rid of the thing, trying to lose it here and there but just can't get rid of it!
Despite it's age though, the story is relevant and fun to kids of today as well as most know about a sweater or garment given to them they don't like!
Every Christmas morning we would sneak into Grannie's room so that she could read the new book she had brought us.
No Roses for Harry!
was one of the books she brought us and I still have the 1969 edition she used!
But my modern child also loved it when I found it again and read it to him.
Surely then this would make it a classic.Harry is a white dog with black spots who receives a woollen sweater with roses on it from Grandma.
Thus follows Harry's efforts to loose the fashion faux-pas.
People laugh at him and dogs bark of him so he's determined to get rid of it and, as often happens when Harry is determined to do something, things just don't go according to plan.
Not quite as text heavy as Harry by the Sea but still a little heavier than most modern children's books.
Personally, even when I was a kid most of my favorite books had fairly muted picture colors (the Frog and Toad books, Owl at Home, Little Bear, Morris and Boris, Harry the Dirty Dog, etc.) but I know some kids just aren't too fond of them.
My Review: No Roses for Harry!
When Harry the white dog with black spots receives a knitted sweater from Grandma with roses on it, he plots to get rid of it if he can.
The art is fun an playful and the story that unfolds is adorable with a wonderful surprise at the end.
My Niece's Review: This was one of her birthday gifts when she turned one year old and she loved it!
She kept pointing at Harry and squeeled as I told the story.
This book is about a dog name Harry who is owner had gave him a sweater with rose on it.
Harry hate it so much because he is a white dog with black spot.
One day while he was outside a bird flew by and took the wool from his sweater and flew away with it.
One day when the grandmother came, Harry walk with her and the children to the park.
He saw the bird made a nest out of his sweater.
Later Harry receive another sweater that was made out of spot like his.
Harry the Dog books are lovable wonderful books that children would enjoy being read to or read themselves.
The illustrations are basic pastel colors but draws you into them so even without able to read the words a child would LOVE sitting and looking at the pictures.
In this one Grandma sends Harry a sweater with roses on it for his birthday.
He HATES roses so he tries everything he can to get rid of his sweater but it is always found.
She makes a nest with it.
When Grandma comes to visit the children want to show the sweater to her.
Harry leads them to the park and shows them the nest.
