https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16593.The_Coming_of_the_Fairies
Also and furthermore the narratives, the texts included (which obviously are meant to both justify and prove alongside of the shown photographs the bona fide, the supposed reality of the existence of fairies) upon just having now reread The Coming of the Fairies, I have definitely and personally found Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's written, his printed words (as well as his inclusions from other supposed "fairy" experts) neither all that readable nor in any way of much narrational interest (and truth be told, I now also do tend to believe that my textual problems with The Coming of the Fairies in 1977 were indeed NOT ONLY due to my at that time still prevalent English language learning issues but also simply the fact that the presented and featured narrative of The Coming of the Fairies just is not and cannot be described as being all that engaging and interesting in and of itself).
Not just his deep-seated belief in spiritualism and the validity of these photos, but in his Victorian-era ideas that middle-class children couldn't possibly have the desire to lie, and if they somehow did then they'd be so bad at it that the man who created Sherlock Holmes would surely see through such a ruse.I couldn't help but find myself feeling a little sad for Conan Doyle.
On the whole, this was an enjoyable, well-written, if not well thought out, book that I was very close to giving five stars simply for the first chapter alone, but it does drag a bit in the end when Conan Doyle dedicates an entire chapter to other people's experiences with fairies; as if these stories bring more weight to the case for the photographs.
Once upon a time, the man who created the world’s most famous consulting detective had his leg pulled by two young women. In the days before Photoshop, the young ladies took pictures of fairies. They posed with the fairies. They claimed to see the fairies quite often. Of course, the fairies were pasted pictures. You look at this photographs today, and part of you wonders how people could be so gullible. Yet, we have famous fake pictures today as well. Do you really think the reporter is always i
In the days before Photoshop, the young ladies took pictures of fairies.
Of course, the fairies were pasted pictures.
You look at this photographs today, and part of you wonders how people could be so gullible.
Yet, we have famous fake pictures today as well.
It can be rather dull reading, but it does include reporters various reactions as well as other accounts from elsewhere.
These other accounts show why people were willing to believe, even those who should have known better.
Still worth reading for a Doyle fan or fairy tale fan.Crossposted at Booklikes.
Conan Doyle does not realise how credulous he is.At one point, toward the end of Chapter One, he explains how the investigation of the Cottingley fairy photographs occured, and says he puts the technique before the public so any error on his part can be indentified.
The one distinctive characteristic is “fair hair”, but that’s hardly a postal address.” He then asks how the “best experts” could be fooled by the photographs, but he’s excluded from “best” the experts who have pointed out that the faeries have elaborate Parisian hairstyles.The sad thing is that Conan Doyle hopes that faeries will crack the wall of scientists around him who say “You cannot prove that you are speaking to the dead.
The first half was interesting but the second one was like a constant Blah Blah Blah.
The original article on the photographs Doyle wrote for The Strand, describing the girls (under pseudonyms) and the circumstances of their taking the photos using Elsie’s father’s camera.
The public reaction to Doyle’s article, quoting at length from skeptical reviews, a few of which are quite wrongheaded, but some which are quite perceptive about the telltale indications of the actual circumstances under which the photos were taken.Chapter 4.
The article shows his inclination toward belief in fairies even before being aware of the photographs.Chapter 7.
Descriptions of fairy sightings which came to Doyle’s attention after the publication of the Cottingley photographs.
It's hard to believe that, what I consider, the most intelligent author of all time, was fooled by a family of girls.
Come on Doyle, what about that deductive reasoning you wrote so well with Holmes.It's like the phrase "Eliminate the impossible..." never even crossed his mind.But he was a diverse yet conflicted writer who just wanted to believe.
Can't fault him for that.What's that old saying?, "You don't quit playing because you grow old.
You grow old because you quit playing".
Just take it for what it is...an old man wanting to believe.
Whether you believe in them or not; or, whether you think you don't have the psychic ability to see them...; or, whether you think it's fake,...it just doesn't matter. Doyle's work presents a good discussion of the reactions of the people when the photos showed up. Perhaps, the artistic side of the matter nobody would dare to question.  "September 6, 1920. MY DEAR DOYLE, Greetings and best wishes....I have received from Elsie three more negatives taken a few days back. I need not describe them
MY DEAR DOYLE, Greetings and best wishes....I have received from Elsie three more negatives taken a few days back.
The fairies said to them We are not of the human evolution".
Instead, the book is a fascinating account of what Conan Doyle and so many others wanted the Cottingley photographs to be and why they were so convinced as to the authenticity of the photographs in the first place.
Oddly enough, the majority of second-hand embarrassment was to be found in Conan Doyle's bias towards Spiritualism, which is about as subtle as it was in his novel 'The Land of Mist'.
Despite knowing the Cottingley photographs were faked, it is still fun to lose yourself in the argument being made and allow yourself to consider that, perhaps, there truly are fairies out there somewhere.
The reason for looking up and reading this obscure piece of history is because the recent rediscovery of a very cute movie titled: Fairy Tale: a true story.
The events being the infamous Cottingly Fairy photographs.
It is also a problem that Doyle's only argument in favor of the photo's depicting real fairies is that the girls who took them were .
Are only are girls clever enough to have faked them they certainly fooled you Mr. Creator of Sherlock Holmes.The rest of the book is full of Doyle's spiritualist agenda as well as so many Fairy theories that they all contradict each other.
Unfortunately for Doyle, pounding the same point over and over doesn't actually make it true; if it did, fairies would have taken over Yorkshire by now.I'm not convinced of his investigative abilities, as he relies entirely on the testimony of others.
And while I'm willing to believe the expert photographers who asserted that the plates were taken in a single exposure, and therefore are not faked by a trick of photography, I'm not convinced those fairies aren't made of paper.The book is amusing in a sad, pitiable sort of way, as it is definitely not meant to be humorous.
What's astonishing is that many people believed them, none more prominent than the great Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, who wrote this book on the case.The whole thing seems astonishingly obvious and fake to the modern reader, but if you put yourself into the mindset of the era - a time of war and great death - then the credulity and the willingness to believe in something otherworldly and magical begins to make sense.
As for this book, it's as well written and engaging as the rest of the author's canon, and watching him make a case, you're tempted to believe - if the whole thing wasn't so screamingly obvious, except for Doyle and his mates, of course.
"If you believe in fairies, clap your hands...In this short book, Conan Doyle tells the story of the famous 'Cottingley Fairies' – 5 photographs taken over a three-year period purporting to show fairies and gnomes sporting in a valley in Yorkshire.
Fortunately, by the time the girls admitted that the fairies were copied from a magazine, cut out from cardboard and held in place by hatpins, Conan Doyle had long since died – though of course one of his medium friends may have passed on the shock news.“We received [psychic] communications from a fairy named Bebel several times, one of them lasting nearly an hour.
However, the only proof offered that they weren't created by means of paper cutouts was the "fact" that while Elsie (the older of the two girls) could draw beautiful landscapes, she could not draw human figures well, at least not when investigators were watching her.The book also details the myriad investigations, including the mediums who claimed to communicate with the fairies in the spot where the photographs were taken.All in all, The Coming of the Fairies is a fascinating study in the willingness of people to believe.
This book is his account of Cottingley Fairies incident, including his article in The Strand Magazine, and the work of Doyle and his partner Edward Gardner in investigating the claims.As a primary source, it’s an interesting look inside the mind of man desperately trying to prove the truth of something ignored by science.
It’s rather interesting to see the focus on various forms of darkroom trickery, and not the obvious explanation that the fairies are painted cardstock cleverly posed.
The saddest chapter is one where Doyle sends another friend, a “Sergeant Tank” with the gift of clairvoyance to Cottingley, and he reports tons of fairies in great detail without a single photograph.
Early in the book, Doyle quotes a correspondent who almost stumbles upon the truth when he comments upon the fairies' "somewhat artificial looking flatness" in the pictures.
The latter chapters in the book are a chore to get through as self-proclaimed clairvoyants and seers give their own accounts of fairy encounters with attempts to explain things "scientifically."Doyle's own statement near the end: "I do not myself contend that the proof is as overwhelming .
. ." does nothing to redeem the book, as that is exactly what he did all throughout.

I find it hard to believe that the same man who created Sherlock Holmes, a character of the utmost ability to deduce conclusions logically could also believe in fairies. My favorite part was where he scoffingly pointed out that there was no such thing as fairy rings, those had to be created by fungus spreading out, but if the fairies happened to use them afterward, well, that was OK. Really? i wonder if I would have liked this better if I hadn't already known that the girls later fessed up to faking the pictures? The later chapters were especially boring.
2.5 stars. A little boring and sometimes hard to follow. I paid more and purchased an actual book because I thought the photos would be better than on my kindle. The photos in this book are horrible. Better off getting the cheaper kindle version and then finding the photographs on the web. They are much clearer there.
42 WORD REVIEW:It isn’t Doyle’s beliefs that grate in this tract; it’s his plodding insistence on presenting facts via formal correspondence. Even when addressing himself to the reader, Doyle assays a monotonous inveiglement, showing nothing of the literary warmth so beloved of his fiction.
Even if this was later found out to be a hoax i would like to believe that fairies exist Hahah ;)
I'd heard of the Cottingley Fairy pictures before but it was only after reading The Cottingley Secret that I learned about this book.This was written when the events were happening, at a time when belief in fairies was more accepted.
It was a time when people wanted to believe in fairies and magic, so when two little girls gave them pictures claiming to prove their existence, they didn't get thrown out as some type of hoax.
I've seen them online but the book definitely could have benefited from their addition.This is quite a short book too.It was definitely interesting to know that everything in the book was real people's accounts of what happened.I'd definitely recommend reading The Cottingley Secret.
The book was written before the supposed photographs were shown to be fraudulent, and so this book is largely important as a case study in how someone who fancies themselves to be clever can be fooled by something which confirms what they want to believe (see Piltdown Man for evolutionist credulity of the same kind and at almost the same time) as well as an example of the way in which followers of occult belief systems [2] like Theosophy sought to maintain a middle ground between the scientific approach of materialist thinkers and the religious approach of a believer in ethical monotheism like Christianity or Judaism.The contents of this book take about 150 pages or so to deal with, and they are interesting at least from a historical perspective, as Doyle discusses how the story of these Yorkshire fairies began, how he came to be involved in the whole brouhaha, the letters that went back and forth, and the ways in which the girls slowly released prints and had pictures of themselves and of believers in the hoax take pictures to show the places where the encounters with the various fey creatures apparently occurred.
This was a pretty good read. I had heard about the fairy photos before and knew that Arthur Conan Doyle had been a believer in them, but never knew why he had believed in them so strongly. It was neat to read all of the arguments from both sides, and the accounts of other people who were claiming to see the fairies made me wonder if they truly thought they were seeing them or what was their reason for saying they could. Quite an interesting book.
This is an excellent primary source document for those studying Conan Doyle, spiritualism, folk belief, theosophy, or any similar topic in Victorian/Edwardian thought and culture. But it's not proof that fairies exist.
2.5*... this book was definitely entertaining and a quick read but at the end of the day, it was pretty monotonous.
Interesting and quaint. A funny sort of window into history, and how people thought about the supernatural.
Very interestingMany references to other sources and books. I look forward to more reading about fairies. I found this book mentioned in a murder mystery.
The Coming of Fairies is an interesting book.
I was also peripherally aware of the photos of fairies to which this book refers.
I have to admit that Doyle's arguments about fairies are much stronger that any arguments about the existence in god.
The strength of these arguments is based on the ability, or lack of ability, of the young girls to fabricate such 'flawless' images.Doyle proceeds to recount accounts of fairies, and similar beings, from around the world.
All in all, a very interesting book which presents some astonishingly potent arguments for the existence of fairies.
Weird, enchanting little book about the notorious "Cottingley Fairies" hoax of the early 20th century: two little girls who took photographs of one another with what they claimed were real "fairies," but turned out, of course, to be the result of double-exposure and drawings cut from books. Before the big unmasking, though, Robert Louis Stevenson was one of the girls' biggest defenders -- hence this book, which assays to set down their entrancing little myth as history.
