https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13152194-tiny-beautiful-things
It's very obvious to me at times that despite the real hardships she's been through -- the early death of her mother, her abusive father, divorce, poverty while trying to establish a writing career -- Strayed lacks the ability to understand, much less identify with, people who have been so drained and battered that their psychological resilience doesn't let them "choose" to be influenced by van Gogh or be less jealous or get up off the couch and start baling out their capsizing lives with their own two hands.
Dear Sugar, I didn’t want to read your book.
A bunch of shit happened in the three days I took to read your book.
I’m older than you know.” I almost stopped reading after How Do You Get Unstuck—only the second Dear Sugar— about the woman suffering after her miscarriage and you sharing the horror stories of the young women you’d encountered as a youth advocate.
The Second Day (Part III and IV): I went to coffee with a new writer friend (three lovely words, don’t you think?).
I started flipping through it randomly and discovered that it was a series of advice columns!
Dozens of letters starting with "Dear Sugar" and then telling a life problem, followed by Sugar's (Cheryl Strayed) response.And you know, you might think you know what you're getting into with an advice column, but I promise you don't.
The advice here, and the way that Sugar delivers them..
She really made me want to live my truth, and I will always be thankful for it.I have started a little personal project of writing letters to Sugar, letters I'll never send off, and it's been a really cool way to process things.

New 2016 goal: become the gay, Asian, male version of Cheryl Strayed.I kid you not, I thought I would hate this book.
I thought things like, "why does our society value beauty so much anyway?" Perhaps I projected my own budding passion for creative nonfiction - and thus, my nascent insecurity - onto Tiny Beautiful Things.I cried by page 28.
She often writes these pieces like little bits of memoir, and she does so in a convincing way that connects to the question at hand without coming across as too self-indulgent.
TINY BEAUTIFUL THINGS: ADVICE ON LOVE AND LIFE FROM DEAR SUGAR by Cheryl Strayed (2012) contains letters and advice first published in The Rumpus.
About the time her first novel came out, I was in a reading group with Strayed for about five minutes, so I’d read many of these columns online, but I also thought enough of them to want to sit down with Strayed’s book in my hands and read every one.
Advice columns have been around pretty much my whole life, starting with Dear Abby, and now and again I’ve argued with them—out loud and staring at the newspaper—because the advice seemed too above-it-all.
Initially I was planning to write my review as a letter to Dear Sugar, but I couldn’t decide whether I should write an apology (I didn’t love Wild and I expected to loathe this), a confession, a love letter, or a thank you note.
It’s also in turns devastating, enlightening, moving, and brutally honest.
It’s very good advice, with lots of profanity and many “sweet peas” thrown in.
An unexpected favorite that I couldn’t do justice to upon finishing, so I certainly can’t now.
5 stars*One thing I should add is that the first letter is pretty shocking.
Audiobook  Cheryl was terrific to listen to.
I listened to the audiobook a little here and there.
Not all questions to “Dear Sugar” were particularly complicated- but some were - requiring some serious thinking into the problem solving process.
I enjoyed studying the way Cheryl work.
When presented with a question- it’s clear she examined it from all angles before giving her response.
She gave excellent advice to people.
I like how Cheryl loves people.I liked her ‘own’ stories.
Cheryl just seems like that type of woman we all love: men, woman, young, or old.What’s not to like her?
If I don’t read it, I can’t hate it and be an alien among my gushy friends.Okay.
I think it’s dangerous to give out advice like that.” In my head, I hear: Danger, danger!
Do you even worry about that?-And I’m sorry, your answers sometimes seem formulaic: Go overboard with the sympathy and empathy first, then talk about something that happened to you, and then tell them what to do.
(The Joy Jar voice is reprimanding this Complaint Board voice: Of course they’re real.) Actually, if they were fake letters, I wouldn’t have to worry about whether you were giving bad advice.
”Everyday is so wonderfulThen suddenlyIt's hard to breatheNow and then I get insecureFrom all the painI'm so ashamed“No matter what we do No matter what we say We're the song inside the tune Full of beautiful mistakesAnd everywhere we goThe sun will always shine” -- Beautiful  – Christina Aguilera, lyrics by Linda PerryI’ve wanted to read this since I saw the movie, “Wild,” advice from a woman who clearly went through a lot of her life reacting to the ugly stuff life had thrown at her, and when
An ability to see inside a few scrambled words, letters written by others in pain, or lost in confusion, and to respond in a way that offers them wisdom and solace.
Sometimes this works better than others, and sometimes the advice she offers is pointing back to their words to show them that the answer was always within, that they’ve always had the power to know their truths, to know they’ve “always had the power to go back to Kansas” but had to recognize it themselves.
If the language offends you, this book is definitely not for you, which is, really, a shame, because it has a lot to offer.
If I had my way, every person in America would read this book.
You'd get copies when you started and ended each job, gold plated copies for retirement, and finally, they would read from Sugar to your tearful descendants when they laid you in the ground.
If I didn't have to do things like earn a living, I would be a one woman Gideon Society for Dear Sugar, because her advice is so good, so honest, so hilarious, so sad, and so full of grace that I think we all need to know it.
Go out and get Tiny Beautiful Things whatever way you (legally) can, and read it.
Sugar dolls out advice from a painful life, a life of mistakes, of coming out on the other side, and her disclosures and what she lays bare will often leave you speechless.
But it is her compassion and kindness, her lack of judgment yet with a healthy dose of straight talk, that won me over.I listened to the audio and even though she is sometimes a bit shall we say ‘dramatic’ in her reading, and I could have used fewer sweet peas, it didn’t detract from the overall messages she was imparting nor the heart you could hear in her voice.
Strategic and coy are for jackasses.
“Sugar might be tender but she doesn’t sugarcoat” aptly sums up this book.Making sense of our irrational fears, indecision’s, hurts and pain. Sugar a.k.a Cheryl Strayed in the form of a advice consultant (sounds better than a columnist) gives practical but real advice while also giving pieces of herself sharing many of her own experiences to make this book absolutely devastating, hopeful and heartwarming.
Have you ever sought advice from a girlfriend, only to have her go on for two hours about her own life and her problems, and you leave going, "Did that just happen?
The "Dear Sugar" column is not advice.
Because in all these answers, hidden somewhere in the dredges of the five-page essays about her past and her problems, is a teeny nugget of something resembling advice.
Case in point: a column that simply says "WTF" which she answers by relaying the experience of her childhood molestation in shocking detail.
And if you are looking for decent personal essays, this is your gal, as they're quite engaging and good.
I picked up this beautiful collection of advice columns because I had loved Strayed's memoir, Wild.
Second, this isn't the kind of book you can read straight through, even if you wanted to.
I would read several pages and then hit a passage that was so meaningful to me that I would have to put the book down and think about it for several days.
Then I'd pick it up again, read a few more pages, and another passage would hit a nerve.
You probably won't relate to every column in here, but you might find one or two that rock your world, in a good way.
Then: another friend and I would email on Thursdays right after the columns would post ("are you crying right now?").
This isn't what I expected to write because I expected that having these posts in book form would be simple, that it would just be this thing I loved already printed out.
But holding the book in my hands, I am appreciative of how I came to them in small, doled out chunks as I began to practice the same thing in my own relationships, how I waited to learn more about myself and about this woman every other Thursday.
There is nothing tiny about the human problems brought out in the letters that Cheryl Strayed received while writing the Dear Sugar column, and nothing tiny about the answers she returns.
What she writes is not really advice so I hesitate to call it an advice column.
Love, grief, raising children, money problems, sex, dishonesty, you name it -- Sugar knows just what to say every time, with healing empathy.
Thanks to them for opening me up to this lovely book, and making me see that Ms Strayed is anything but the annoying fool I perceived her to be in Wild.
Way more than a self-help book, Strayed's (Wild) collection of advice columns written under the pen name "Sugar" draws generously on her own colourful life and is written with heart, soul, humour, wisdom and something that seems in short supply these days: empathy.At first, I found Strayed's little endearments - "sweet pea," "honeybun," etc.
I was often correct, but Strayed's such a good writer she still surprised me with her approach.This is a book to keep on your bedside table for inspiration, consolation and a reminder that, despite things like intolerance and illness and f-ked up people and missed chances, life and love can be so damn beautiful and rewarding, too.
After wavering about how to rate this I've decided on three ("I liked it" on my scale).
Some of these letters were so heartbreaking; the one of the son who's parents disowned him because of being gay and the one who's son was killed by a drunk driver.
The letters regarding people who cheat in their marriages, love life problems, etc., I didn't really give a crap about.
I also wavered quite a bit on her replies to people.
She would ramble on a lot about her own life and problems and I would wonder how it was relating to the original letter.
While that was true for many of the problems and issues submitted for her consideration it did not detract much from my pleasure in listening to this audio version read by the author.
Her honest and open unladylike unAnnLanders-like responses to the issues submitted impart personal anecdotes from her own life tied into the advice she offers up.
I was a fan of Wild: From Lost to Found on the Pacific Crest Trail and my response to this one was no different.
I am just not the right reader for it.The book, a compilation of an online column in which 'Dear Sugar ' addresses the trials and troubles of people, is a hit for people who seeks emotional validation for just being themselves.
It often descends into sensationalism and populism; at its worst, it is responsible for breaches of privacy and persecution of individuals (i.e. the Leveson Inquiry of 2011-13)SOURCEThe real tortured soul who is serious about a solution will seek advise from a lawyer, a therapist or any professional, either an online professional blogger/columnist who eek out a living in the social arena, or the inflicted soul would be more determined, dishing out the cash in real life to find serious professional help.
And thanks to online opportunities, the book received a few hundred more reviews than the printed version!
(And it’s not like Sugar gets a pass from me on that one either – one of the pieces in this collection in response to a disabled letter writer is mostly clichés and platitudes, capped off with a refusal to engage with the actual meat of the question as it pertains to, you know, being disabled.And yet.
That is not usually the message I got from the internet during 2010 and 2011, let me tell you.Once in a while, there was a piece that did ring like a true thing.
More accurately, though, Dear Sugar is to an advice column what a home-made-straight-from-the-oven-chocolate-chip cookie is to a vanilla wafer.Cheryl Strayed, aka “Sugar”, is a fascinating, compassionate, outstanding person.
This must be why her responses are awesome.Ms. Strayed is a truly generous person, in that she shares so much of herself in her replies.
I found that, whether or not I could identify with the letters to Sugar, I always garnered something from her responses.A very dear friend gave me this book as a gift.
I marveled at the courage and thoughtfulness that went into each letter and that was matched by each response.
Hmm. When will I learn and start writing my reviews in Word and not directly on GR?Here we go again.I wouldn't have picked this to read had it not been for the raving reviews of a few GR friends, so many thanks to Esil, Glenn, Elyse and Cheri for the direct and indirect prompt.I chose to listen to the audiobook and it was just perfect, as it was narrated by Cheryl Strayed herself.I knew early on that this book was going to kill me as I wept while listening to the introduction read by Steve Almond.
Dear Sugar,I never knew I was writing you a letter.
It never occurred to me that my subconscious was collecting fragments of other peoples' letters and tying them into one angsty but optimistic letter of my own.I have a beautiful life.
Friends, family who love me, I'm smitten in my relationship, and I have sunshine in my life everyday, but your advice feels so poignant and valuable that I just want to thrust "Tiny Beautiful Things" into the hands of everyone I know and love.
I do not need to write this letter.
I gave a million stars to "Wild" but I don't like this book at all. Here's the pattern: someone asks for help in solving a life problem. "Sugar" responds by describing a vaguely similar situation from her own past (often much worse, as if to say, "You think THAT'S a problem, ya pansy?"). Then she calls the questioner "sweet pea" and "darling" about a hundred times and ends on a note of pithy inspiration. She makes Ann Lamott sound like Charles Bukowski.
Oh geez, I'm only on the second letter and it was all I could do to keep myself from being a weepy mess on the subway this morning.
Dear Sugar, how did your heart get so big?
I love Steve Almond's characterization of her columns as works of "radical empathy".
I love this book so much.
I want to give it to every person I know so that we can have bigger hearts, live better lives and see each other and our brave, vulnerable selves with more clarity and compassion.This book will crack you open in the best possible way.Sugar's view on life, from the letter "Go!
Holy wow of all things good, this book should be a must read for all writers, thinkers, and humans trying to do more than simply eek out their existence.
I am so not an advice/self-help book kind of girl.
Sugar sees the buried questions and stories and fears and desires embedded in the advice-seekers' narratives and lifts them in all their sad messed-up tear-sodden loveliness to the light of the truth.
I mean she really truly LOVES the people seeking her advice.
Read it to empathize with all the poor messed up souls with whom you share a planet.
Read it to become a better writer.
I thoroughly enjoyed every one of these letters. I would find myself savoring them, reading only a few at a time. Then, I would be so taken I had to keep reading many in one sitting. There is nothing like advice that comes from the heart, from connection to others, from living through imperfections and difficulties of ones own. I believe we all have a story to tell, and through sharing these stories true healing takes place. This is what Cheryl Strayed has accomplished, and she has helped heal my heart as well.
6,7,8 Stars.....All the stars. Every single one of them!
