https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/650775.Collected_Ghost_Stories
Montague Rhodes James brings the classic British understatement to the field of horror stories and makes them terrifying beyond imagination.
He is helped in this by his encyclopaedic knowledge of Church History.James' ghosts are most exclusively European, mostly British.
Often the protagonist is a scholarly enquirer who stumbles upon unwelcome and potentially dangerous knowledge in the course of his enquiries, and his journey, along with the story, slowly descend into a madness equalling that of Lovecraft, but in a gentlemanly, English way.I would rank Casting the Runes at the very top of these gems.
With Halloween fast approaching, one of my favorite holidays (and I can tell it's coming because already the weather changed for October and it was only four degrees last night, typical Canada), I decided to read some short ghost stories as usual, and M.R. James' collection is some of the best I've read in a long time.
Best of all, they're all original, no repeated droning or typical plots of evil clowns or zombies, and with that there's a lot of surprises and abrupt suspense, making it a really engaging book.
This collection collects all of the known printed ghost stories of M.R. James. And if you love classic creepers you are in for a major treat.The stories that particularly stood for me were, "The Mezzotint", "Oh, Whistle, and I Will Come to You, My Lad", "The Haunted Dolls' House", "The Uncommon Prayer-Book", "A View From a Hill", Wailing Well", and "Casting The Runes".So get ready to have your hair stand on end.
James is content to let the reader fill in the rest of the details of what the creature looks like, knowing that the reader’s own imagination would paint a far scarier picture than anything a writer could dream up.The horror in his stories is most often even more subtle: it’s the tapping at the window in the dead of night, the faint sounds of scratching at a closed bedroom door, the extinguishing of a candle in the middle of a darken hallway, and the nearby sounds of rustling when you think you are alone in your bed.
And third, that M.R. James is King Shit of Space-Cat Mountain even more amazing than I had remembered.Widely regarded as maybe the best ghost story writer of all time, having re-read these stories, and read some of them for the first time, all I can say is: Yes, yes he is.
He seems to almost always know what to suggest and what to leave out entirely, and the haunts here are among the spookiest you'll ever encounter.I always remember that I like James, but somehow I sometimes seem to forget just how much.
M.R. James can be difficult for the modern reader, but his stories are worth the effort for the atmosphere alone.
This creepy story involves old ruins, a found whistle with a strange inscription, and an unused bed that is suddenly no longer empty.
There are many more stories involving hair-and-bones demons, a ghost whose appearance is signaled by the appearance of sawflies, a room that appears and disappears, a mezzotint that becomes an early moving picture, and many others.
Just a note: as this is not the edition I own, I can't guarantee that it features the same stories.
My volume is the complete edition of James' ghost stories.
Nothing beats old school horror, and James was a master of it. I read this collection years ago and I still get goosebumps thinking of some of his ambiguous horrors that were mostly created by imagination after his written prompts.These stories rely heavily on suspense and unanswered questions, and are more about subtle shivers than full-on nightmare creations. A fantastic collection and one I'll return to for sure.
It must have been such a thrilling experience to be one of the first to hear him read a classic like Oh, Whistle and I’ll Come to You My Lad (certainly one of my favourites!), which was delivered in this way to friends and colleagues in December 1903.Personally, I think the thing that makes James’s writing so memorable is what he doesn’t choose to tell us - he is economical with his descriptions and in this way he never ‘over-eggs the pudding’.
James often narrates in the first person; however, he is generally telling us a story he was once ‘told’ by an acquaintance or is passing on something that once happened to a colleague.
I somehow prefer Victorian horror and ghost stories to anything modern, even though there are some modern horror authors that I like.
The stories in this book are chilling and frightening, merely by the existence of the supernatural and the deliberate erasing out of the gore.
There are more than 30 short stories in the book, each more delightful than the last.
They were too short and weren't really much of a story either, more like short sketches that were not too scary or interesting.
But otherwise, this book is a great collection of ghost stories, not for the faint of heart.
Video reviewAll shits and giggles until HAIRY SPIDER DEMON.Especially relevant to scholars and academics: who hasn't considered hexing that very impolite peer reviewer who bashed your essay so cruelly?
(Yep, and it does not end well for the accuser or his ancestors) Good stuff.Number 13: A scholar (see I told you!) stays in a boarding house while he performs his research in town.
One of the few legitimately happy endings I've ever read in a scary story.Casting the Runes: An interesting tale of a cursed man trying to save himself.
Good stuff.The Story of a Disappearance and an Appearance: A strange story told through found letters (I love M.R. James framing devices!) of an unliked Uncle who goes missing right before Christmas and the nephew who tries to find him.
These stories took me back to my childhood, holidays at the beach in old houses, howling winds and the crashing of the waves at night.
Four children whiling away the evening hours reading ghost stories from books borrowed from the local library.

Academics, antiquarians, librarians, book-collectors are the protagonists of many of his stories; typically, they make some kind of discovery in the course of their researches that unlocks an evil force from the distant or proximate past.
The dynamic is that of the return of the repressed, and it’s perhaps not surprising that James’s nasties have such a distinctly sexual character (there’s a lot of hairiness and wetness and sliminess and dark holes—need I go on?) The article I cited above goes on about this at some length.One thing I found intriguing in the book, as a historian of sorts myself, was James’s inquest in these stories into his own profession.
Sir John Betjeman, also a lover of these stories, had a similar early encounter;In the year 1920 I was a new boy at the Dragon school, Oxford, then called Lynam's, of which the headmaster was C.
I remember he told the stories as having happened to himself.…they were the best stories I ever heard, and gave me an interest in old churches, and country houses, and Scandinavia that not even the mighty Hans Christian Andersen eclipsed.Skipper was being wonderfully disingenuous because, as Betjeman later discovered, the stories he was claiming as his own reality were in fact the fictions of James.
I couldn't move!!
And I loved it!But these are Victorian stories and I guess I've never really been scared by a story.
They are written in a Victorian fashion, so I love the writing, just not the ghosts.
Nothing is more common form in old-fashioned books than the description of the winter fireside, where the aged grandam narrates to the circle of children that hangs on her lips story after story of ghosts and fairies, and inspires her audience with pleasing terror.
But we are never allowed to know what the stories were.
Assigned this book for a class on Freud's Uncanny and Horror Literature, and had a tough time presenting James in such a way that the students got beyond his "reasonable" facade and into deeper, weirder territory.
Yes, James is a master of "understatement" - although I wonder if this isn't just a function of the narrative layers and frames he's so fond of employing - but he uses this light touch to investigate some deeper strain of desire.
In other words, the deeper one investigates James' unconscious territory the more interesting the stories become.
However, this book was special in the sense that the stories often mention certain details that require gentle ministrations in the shape of annotations & explanations for Latin-challenged readers like us (who must be 99.9% of the total readers), and this book does it to some extent.
Of course, its comparison with the gold-standard of annotated editions set by "A Pleasing Terror" published by the Ash Tree Press would be made, and the book would be found short on many grounds (esp.
since the Penguin volumes (edited by S.T Joshi) are ridiculously overpriced, and since the Ash Tree Press is not coming out with their long-awaited 2nd edition of "A Pleasing Terror" (in 2 volumes!) any time soon.
Simply the best, goulish and ghastly tales by the master. JS
What I can do, is tell you the premise of one of the stories that I thought was the scariest: ‘Lost Hearts’.An eleven year old boy, recently orphaned, arrives at a country house in the year 1811.
The boy has been living in the big house for a few months, in the care of the housekeeper, when this kind lady scolds him for having torn his nightdress.
Some of the evil creatures, most of them hooded and operating in the shadows, were quite unpleasant, but I noticed that I found the stories containing actual, physical monsters less scary than those with some kind of ghost or witchcraft.
I will not put dots or stars, for I dislike them, but I will say that apparently someone tried to shave Mr Burton in the train, and did not succeed overly well. He was however satisfied with what he had done, if we may judge from the fact that on a once white napkin spread on Mr Burton’s chest was an inscription in red letters: GEO. W. FECI.
"There is really nothing more to tell, but, as you may imagine, the Professor’s views on certain points are less clear cut than they used to be. His nerves, too, have suffered: he cannot even now see a surplice hanging on a door quite unmoved, and the spectacle of a scarecrow in a field late on a winter afternoon has cost him more than one sleepless night."
M.R. James is one of those kinda guys you can just picture at a bar, telling the wildest story imaginable, complete with "It was thiiis big" alongside arm gestures and hyperboles in excess.
Highly atmospheric, they FEEL like urban myths or dusty old tales that have been hidden throughout the English countryside for eons, waiting for some studious professor to find them in a barn or an attic and write them onto paper.
And its the focus on the heebie jeebies and not the monsters themselves that make the stories so good.
That true heebie jeebie feel.
While one must focus almost solely on Arthur Machen's 1890s output, whittle Algernon Blackwood's vast output down to a small selection of outright masterpieces of terror or dig around for Walter de la Mare's always excellent, but unfortunately scattered and few, horror stories from his varied career, M.
R. James' horror stories are satisfyingly presented in a volume of sufficient consistency and length.
His opening Ghost Stories of an Antiquary selection is an astoundingly perfect collection, and each story reaches an acknowledged level of exceptionally high quality not worth expounding upon at the present time considering the wealth of online resources on James.
Where he might better leave the instrument of a curse or haunting unseen, James instead resorts to goblin-like runts who crawl out of holes, do their wickedness, and then retreat.
I have always preferred ghost stories which relied on what has been called the 'numinous', a quality by which the haunting presence, though unable to affect our physical world directly, may yet arouse such dread in the living that harm indeed results, but only through panic and ensuing accident.
Still, not all of James's stories fall short so, and some of his best are concentrated in the third quarter of this collection.
My tenth or eleventh read of this book. No longer physically terrifies me (I can remember lying in bed with the light on, paralysed with fear, too terrified to read on but unable to stop reading) but still remorseless and brilliant. 'An Evening's Entertainment' stands out this time around - it's overlooked compared to some of the stories, with a obvious sexual undertone that is unusual for James.
[image error]home audio
I was introduced to M.R. James after reading the Wordsworth Book Of Horror Stories; a 1000-plus page compilation of all the greatest horror tales written between the eighteenth and twentieth century.
There were a number of really great stories, but overall, I think that most of them started to seem a little repetitive and not altogether satisfying in the end.Firstly, I’ll just list my favourite ones, which I had little to hold against.
Well, after reading this a third time - (and alongside all his other stories) - I think I’ll comply with the majority now.
Ibi Cubavit Lamia(There laid the screech owl)Millions of spiritual creatures walk the earthUnseen, both when we wake and when we sleep?(253)But in another minute they were in the sitting-room of the house, a small, high chamber with a stone floor, full of moving shadows cast by a wood-fire that flickered on a great hearth.(4)I can only just manage to tell you now the bare outline of the experience.
I was conscious of a most horrible smell of mould, and of a cold kind of face pressed against my own, and moving slowly over it, and of several - I don't know how many - legs or arms or tentacles or something clinging to my body.
I personally found the book pretty easy to read, although the Victorian/Edwardian writing style did take a bit of getting used to over the first couple of stories.
A lot is left to the reader's imagination when it comes to the ghosts/spectres/creatures and what their motives and back stories might be and I personally enjoyed this aspect of the writing, I like the fact that M R James keeps some things back and let's the reader form their own theories and conclusions as to what might be going on.
