https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6423.High_Five
Book Review  4 out of 5 stars to High Five, the fifth book in the "Stephanie Plum" cozy mystery series, written in 1999 by Janet Evanovich. If you thought Stephanie was off-her-rocker, wait until you meet more of her family. Uncle Fred has disappeared and all they can find that might lead them to his whereabouts are the pictures he's kept hidden of a dismembered human body. We know Stephanie's family has some crime-connections between her cousin and a few other distant relatives. But when Gran
4 out of 5 stars to High Five, the fifth book in the "Stephanie Plum" cozy mystery series, written in 1999 by Janet Evanovich.
Uncle Fred has disappeared and all they can find that might lead them to his whereabouts are the pictures he's kept hidden of a dismembered human body.
We know Stephanie's family has some crime-connections between her cousin and a few other distant relatives.
This is one of the first books where the major issues heat up between her and Joe Morelli over her "relationship/friendship" with Ranger.
And who doesn't love trying to figure out who cut up a body?
""Problem is, you aren't living up to your earning potential," Lula said.
If Vinnie ever gave me a homicidal rapist to chase down I'd quit and get a job selling shoes.""I want to belong to the Plum family!!!
Reading these books one a month is a great decision!
And Grandma Mazur steels the show every time she is on page:) I love those books and you guys have to give the series a try, it is a very pleasant and fun way to spend an afternoon - the books read that fast!!!
So, I wish all wonderful time reading and many, many satisfying books!!!
I think my last status update says it all: "These books are such a cocktease." I don't know why I keep checking these out from the library.
Some supernatural force keeps pulling me down the Mystery aisle and forcing these books into my hands.
I don't really like Stephanie, the mysteries are contrived and ridiculous, her family is annoying, the love triangle is BEYOND frustrating, and the constant addition of "let's see how crazy THIS supporting character can be" is just about the last nail in the coffin of this series for me.
I just CAN'T.Thank god for the library.
"I don't get it," the driver said. "I hardly scraped against your car. Why would it explode like that?""That's what her cars do," Lula said. "They explode." Stephanie is hell on wheels. Literally. Her crazy relationship with cars are some of the funniest parts of these books. She is singlehandedly putting the insurance companies out of business at this point. And, it's awesome.soon...In this book, Stephanie is looking for her Uncle Fred. Of course this job doesn't pay, and people keep getting m
Why would it explode like that?""That's what her cars do," Lula said.
Let's just say that her bad luck follows her to any job that she tries.She's worse at her job than Phil at Jurassic Park.And, along with the always-awesome Lula, Stephanie picks up a dwarf and a new stalker, Bunchy, that she brings dinner to as he's watching her from his car.
He could just let Stephanie borrow his car.Transmission problem solved.So, the only thing I am not too thrilled with in this series is that we have begun a love triangle.
Ranger - he also has cool cars.
This is probably the twentieth time I've read the Stephanie Plum books. I love them, obviously. When I need a truly entertaining story to make the day better, these are always the books I turn to.Reread March 2018
If you are reading this series from the beginning then you will get the jokes i.e. when the fire alarm goes off in the funeral home everyone looks towards Ms. Plum.
Evanovich has here style of writing perfected (good thing because there are nine more novels in this series)—short pithy sentences, detailing a swiftly moving story.
High Five has the regulars (Ranger, Morelli, and Lula) as well as a couple new whackos like the dwarf who refuses to be brought in and a bookie named Bunchy who may be a cop.
I shouldn’t be enjoying this series as much as I am, but they are light reading and a sweet break from others considered more serious.
3.5 stars?So.I did not like this sequel at all.I enjoyed it, binged it, laughed with it, but did not like it.Because... A love triangle?Really, Janet?I found it cringy and most honestly hope you did not let Stephanie choose the other guy in that last, cliff hanging scene.
I enjoy this series. I read these books when I need something light. Grandma Mazur can usually be counted on to make me laugh out loud! I'm glad the character of Ramirez is now out of the way. I didn't like him still being in the story. I look forward to the next segment.....
and with the two sexiest men on the planet, Stephanie Plum finds herself intertwined in family drama when asked to investigate and locate her Uncle Fred.Flying purple-headed piglet Vinnie, is making money left and right.
Last time I saw Vinnie in a mood like this was when Madame Zaretsky was arrested for pandering and sodomy and put her trained dog up as collateral for her bond.”Ranger is a delicious bad boy character that gives you shivers and has the hair on your arms standing at attention.
Stephanie tries her best to keep her distance, to suffer along with him as they play a game of who gives in first.
I LOVE Grandma Mazur!!!!! And, Lula continues to be a hysterical part-time side kick! Still enjoying the hell out of these books. Onto "Hot Six."
I was walking around Barnes and Noble book hunting when I came across a yellow book with a colorful title.
It reminded me of the 80's and I love 80's-like colors.I started reading the 1st page without looking at its premise and was already hooked on Stephanie Plum's explanation on how she was much like Barbie without pants.
I remembered looking at Barbie dolls as a kid, in the 80's!
Note: im not gay.80's color theme plus Barbie equals 80's for the win.Oh, and Evanovich's narrative style is way too addicting.
I MIGHT read his "Good Guy" or the "Darkest Evening of the Year," but we'll see.
Stephanie is sassy and funny getting herself in all kind of mischief.
This one starts out with Aunt Mable looking for Uncle Fred.
She visits Aunt Mabel and asks about Uncle Fred's errands.
She makes a bee line for the check at CGR Trash Company.
Then Mabel shows her the pictures she found in Fred's desk.
They are body parts mingled in with the trash.
Stephanie turns the photos over to Joe Morelli her on again off again boyfriend, who is a police detective.
She needs extra money and asks Ranger if he can help her.
1. I'm in love with Steph and Morelli2.
I'm even on board with Ranger (finally)3.
No offense to CJ Critt, but her voice for Briggs was THE WORST.
Glad he's out of the picture.
Steph needs an unlisted phone number and she also needs to move so these creeps can't find her (preferably back in with Morelli)6.
Too many swoon worthy/laugh out loud moments in this book.
I may have finished the book with my hard copy so I can't even cheat by the different voices on my Audiobook.9.
Thank goodness there are 20+ books in this series.
They both suit Stephanie in different ways and I actually think she'd stand a good chance of making things work with either of them but I do think her history with Joe puts him in a good position to come out on top (please don't spoiler me if you know who she chooses, I honestly can't remember if a decision has been made or not in the books I read in and I'm planning on reading the entire series so I will find out for myself soon enough).
I didn't find this entry quite as entertaining as #4, but it held my interest nevertheless.In it, Stephanie is asked to find her Uncle Fred who has gone missing.
They have a way of getting blown up or disappearing on her.Her relationship with Morelli continues - on another level.
Their attraction is mutual and we are left to wonder at the end of the book if the man she's about to jump into bed with is Morelli...or Ranger.
My money's on Ranger.Oh, yeah, Stephanie solves the mystery of Uncle Fred's disappearance and all the related mysteries and she gets her man.
SERIE STEPHANIE PLUM n.
5LETTURA DI GRUPPO E&L No be ma si finisce così un libro????
Ma nooooooooo!!!Come al solito Stephanie e la sua combriccola mi fa troppo ridere.
Non so come ci riesce la Evanovich.
Rido e sogno ad occhi aperti, come mai???
E per tutto il libro Non si sa chi deciderà..e non quando finalmente mette su il vestito super sexy e con la pesca sceglie un nome...il libro finisce...uffa!!!!!Cque finalmente nonna Mazur è tornata, e Lula è più spumeggiante che mai.
Non so se posso farcela ad aspettare la prossima lettura di gruppo!!!!
I blew right through this one so I'll keep things brief...Highlights include:1. Ranger is in the wind2. Ranger, no longer disguised as Batman, makes a play for Stephanie, yum3. Stephanie beats a midget/little person4. Morelli delivers the most curt, but steamy line yet that will send heat straight to your doodah. Raunchy yes, but true none the less.
High Five is another quirky, often humorous mystery that features bounty hunter Stephanie Plum.
In this book, Stephanie's Uncle Fred has gone missing, and her family thinks that she is just the one to find him.
Uncle Fred's disappearance takes a sinister turn when his desk reveals photos of body parts.
As Stephanie tries to find out what happened to him, several people she interview turn up dead and she must work to find out who is behind the murders.
Stephanie's life is comlicated in this book by her attraction to two men in her life - her sexy sometimes cop boyfriend Joe Morelli, and her mysterious work associate Ranger.
Mais What !!!! C'est quoi cette fin??? Et bien sur je n'avais pas le tome suivant dans ma bibliothèque !!Sinon : excellent moment. C'est drôle, intelligemment installé : bref du divertissement comme je l'aime !
Another fun read by Janet. Morelli, ranger, lula, ramirez, Stephanie plum, cars blowing up, grandma mazur using stun gun; this book had everything and everyone, except for some hard core action from the hamster Rex.
You know what to expect, down to the types of plot minutiae Evanovich will use to fill in the gaps of Stephanie's life -- junk food, that damn hamster, racism, beautician trips.
See, I live in Philly and work across the bridge(s) from Trenton in Morrisville, PA (check out the opening line of Hot Six, we made the big time, baby).
To me, reading these books is as soothing and homey as Stephanie Plum walking around her parents' house in her robe.
Stephanie Plum really IS the girl next door if these are also your life experiences.
The cop in him can't help but wonder as to the source of Stephanie's expensive new car.
And the rest of him, the man who's been friend and lover to Stephanie, can't help but wonder if there's more to the partnership than meets the eye.
Even though Grandma Mazur is sure he was abducted by aliens, Stephanie sets out to look for Fred.
Locked in the top drawer of his desk are photos of a body, dismembered and stuffed into a garbage bag.With the help of Stephenie, Ranger, the dwarf and of course Grandma Mazur, this book Is the best I've read out of the series yet!
Laugh Out Loud, Enticing. Captivating & Exciting Read! I Loved It!
This was one of my favorites. I have read them all and recommend them to anyone who likes a laugh with their action.
This was a great one. Grandma Muzar is funny as always and of course Stephanie is still a mess but manages to always get the job done but with so much added fiascos and laughs.
It's either a disaster or you want me bad, and my luck hasn't been that good today.""Okay," he said.
Not to mention Grandma Mazur.I would have liked a piece of pie, too, but I thought about the little black dress and had a banana instead.
If I want to see loose skin I can look in the mirror.""This Porsche isn't stolen, is it?" "Do you care?" "Of course I care!” "Then it isn't stolen," Ranger said.Briggs was already at work at his computer when I came out of my bedroom.
"Looking a little scary, Babe," Ranger said when he saw me.
I listened to the abridged audiobook, just over 2 hours. I wouldn't have been able to listen t anything longer by this narrator.
Fun read and an awesome plot. Totally enjoyed it
It's pulp-y and if I allow myself a half a second, I'm a bit offended by the first chapter of the next book being at the end of the book you just finished.
(Yes, like Stephanie, I swoon a little when he happens upon a page.) I'm frustrated by the growing attraction to Ranger.
You can pour through one, be relatively entertained and wonder when you will shake the addiction long enough to read something a little bit more lofty.So, I'm already two chapters into the next one.
I like Stephanie Plum series but I'm not one of those who love it.
Still I like to read the book from time to time.This time Stephanie is involved in the case of her uncle Fred missing.
The case becomes more complicated with every page.
She also starts to work for Ranger and loses one car after another.I's a really nice and funny read, though there are also some parts that are rather ridiculous.
Like Briggs living in her flat and some things her grandma says and does.
Still I'm not sure I'm still interested in the relationship of Stephanie and Morelli.
