https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59822.Face_the_Fire
Tranquilamente un 2.5Si tuviera que definir este libro en una sola palabra, sin duda sería: aburrido. Y creo que es la primera vez que me pasa con un libro de Nora Roberts.
This closes out the series.
It's not that I didn't love it, cause I did.
But...ok, here's the deal.
He dumps her harshly and then ten years later he returns expecting to romance her back into his bed.
What he didn't bank on was how much her heart was broken.
He knew he hurt her.
"I did mean to hurt you.
And I'd say I did a damn good job of it." Yep, he would have needed an ambulance after making a comment like that.
She was stronger, but he does manage to romance himself back in, slowly.
But it was still an excellent ending to the series.
While I still liked this book, it was my least favorite of the Three Sisters Island trilogy.
I thought that was done well.What I didn't particularly like about the book was the romance between Mia and Sam. It didn't quite work for me.
Mia keeps her heart locked away from Sam for the whole book (with good reason mostly) then at the end, she's suddenly like, okay, I accept you and your love.
I would have liked to see Mia soften toward him a little more before the end.The other thing that kept me from really loving the book was Mia herself.

Y no porque la historia de Mia y Sam me guste más que las otras dos, sino porque en ésta no se centra tanto en su relación, sino que ésta es una parte más de la historia principal de la trilogía que va desarrollándose de manera secundaria en las dos primeras novelas: la maldición de la isla, la decisión de Mia, el futuro de todos ellos y del círculo.En cuanto a la relación de Sam y Mia, me ha encantado que no sea algo nuevo —no se conocen al principio como las otras dos parejas—, sino que se trata de un reencuentro, un amor joven e intenso que fue demasiado para Sam y que le llevó a cometer el error de dejar la isla y a Mia hace ya diez años.
The entire premise of this book (not the series!) was based on the fact a nineteen-year-old girl knew what love was when she loved Sam Logan eleven years ago.
She grew stronger as a witch, he became a man who finally knew what he wanted, and they could discover what love was together when they were both adults.I didn't like the fact she held a grudge so long, because the reason for that grudge was stupid, if you ask me.
Si su romance hubiese sido tan emotivo y bonito como los de Nell o Ripley quizás me hubiese gustado más, pero tengo la impresión de que aquí Nora Roberts flaqueó porque no sabía muy bien qué clase de historia darle a Mia, como que tenía que cerrar la trilogía y ya está, y ése fue su punto débil porque no lo supo aprovechar.La libro tuvo un buen comienzo, la historia de trasfondo empezó fuerte e interesante.
I was too busy rolling my eyes to fully enjoy this corny mess.
The hero dumped the heroine because he felt suffocated by her and doesn't return for 11 years.
She, of course spent those years torn apart, struggling to survive without him.
The day he returns, she decides she will have sex without the "relationship" with him *rolls eyes* when he tells her he wants her back.
Does that sound like what a rational woman will do to the guy who dumped and shattered her heart?
This just made the book drag on and left me feeling dissatisfied because I didn't feel the hero groveled much at all.
From the massive amount of books I’ve read by Nora Roberts,I’ve learned something.’If you loved the 
I found it very easy to not like Sam along with all women. I was stunned when I realized that Sam thought all he would have to do was come back and he would be back with Mia. I loved that Nell and Ripley gave him the cold shoulder too, in support of Mia. The whole big bad showdown was sort of a letdown after 3 books.
De este último libro de la trilogía me esperaba MÁS La historia de Mia tenía muchas ganas de leerla desde el primero y quizás esas expectativas jugaron una mala pasada, no lo sé.Para mí es el libro más flojo de los tres, necesario para cerrar la parte de la magia pero con una relación romántica demasiado plana.
I thought parts of it were downright stupid and it emphasizes all the reasons I do not read Ms. Roberts trilogies any longer.That’s it in a nutshell though I suppose I should give a bit more detail, otherwise it will sound like one of those ‘crap’ reviews that can be found on Amazon.I have to start out by saying I’ve loved Nora Roberts for a long time.
I’m going to come down on the author and it hurts to do so as I have a tremendous amount of respect for her talent but in the trilogies she has 3 basic types, mostly heroines but I have read a series where the heroes fell into this pattern too.There is what I call, “earth mother (father)” type.
Lättläst och underhållande, gillar speciellt vänskapen mellan kvinnorna. Däremot inte så förtjust i den magiska delen. Läs hela recensionen här: https://ewelinasbokblogg.blogspot.se/...
Nora Roberts produces a third book about the final important character on the Three Sisters Island.
In the final book this great evil must be combated.
It isn't anything like a love/hate relationship but more of a woman's true reaction to someone she had loved dearly who broke her heart and then pops up out of the blue to try to rekindle what they once had for each other.
I like how Nora Roberts took her three books in the trilogy and expanded them to incorporate each of the main characters.
For the record this was the first Nora Roberts series/book I read.Of the three stories I liked this one the least.First off: the hero dumped the heroine 11 years ago...and she sleeps with him within a few weeks (if that).
Then tries to maintain a "no strings attached sexual relationship" with him...(the guy she's pined over for 11 years...yeeeah, whatever...Then: the witch she is within, "Fire", killed herself 300 years ago because the Silkie (or some say Selkie) she loved left her.
I REALLY had a problem with that part, because the book painted this as a tragic love while I interpretted it as a witch/woman who held a man hostage against his will for years.
I was so sure that something was missing on the previous 2 books but I just couldn't figure out what it was.
I still can't but I know after reading book 3 that it definitely has something the others didn't, even though I can't exactly say what, lol.
Kinda messed up, anybody got that?I had been waiting to get to know Sam since he was first mentioned on the previous books.
I wasn't sure if he would be the perfect mate for our amazing Mia (which was always my fav.
It got way more elaborated and complicated.
El cierre ideal para esta trilogía que me atrapó de principio a fin. Amé la historia de Mia. 😭❤ P.D: me sigo quedando con las ganas de un epílogo Nora!!!! porque mi lado fangirl siempre quiere más 😂😏.
audiobook book 3 was ok but it was boring at the end
What book. Wonderful series. I couldn’t put them down.
I have to say that more than one main character annoyed me. However, overall, I enjoyed the series.
3.5
Nora Roberts is one of those authors that I can read over and over again & never really get tired of her. I read these books years ago during the tween years and decided to give it another go. Why not? Reading about witches is always fun & you should never turn your nose up at a N.R. trilogy!While I still liked this book, it was my  least favorite  of the Three Sisters trilogy. I liked the plot as it dealt with resolving the threat to the island and beating the evil. I thought that was d
Reading about witches is always fun & you should never turn your nose up at a N.R. trilogy!While I still liked this book, it was my 
It didn't quite work for me.Mia keeps her heart locked away from Sam for most of book (with good reason mostly) then she's suddenly like, "yeah, okay, sure ~ I accept you and your love, even though Ive been denying my feelings 99% of the time!" Also, their romance had this rather cold vibe to it.
I loved how mysterious and empowered Mia was in the first two books.
2015 Reading Challenge: a trilogy.Sam and Mia, man.
Yes, Sam was kind of an ass at the beginning and had arguably been an ass for the past ten years, but I really loved the energy between them regardless.I loved finding out about him; (view spoiler)[the surprise that Sam was a witch himself was a pleasant one and I enjoyed how connected he was to it all.
The connection he had with Mia and that he was as much a part of the legend as the others were.
This isn't my favorite series of Nora Roberts.
The first book of the series was the best one and I think it was mainly because I really liked the characters.
In this 3rd book it was O.K. I liked Mia but she was a little harder to relate too.
Her Cafe bookstore was one of my favorite locations.
Here is what I came up with: "Witches of the Three Sister Island have to come together to save the island from the same fate as Atlantis."That sums up the series perfectly.
Eh. I felt like the plot point of this didn't actually work. I never actually knew who Mia was supposed to fight. But the plot was actually stellar in comparison to the couple.Sam left Mia years ago because he felt trapped by her expectations. Fair enough. But he dances back in town ten years later and has the nerve to wonder why she won't jump back into his arms when he says he's ready. I would've preferred Mac's original theory (Mia moving on from Sam without a grudge) to what actually happened.
Like the Gallaghers of Ardmore Irish trilogy, I discovered this series in the Honor section of my local library and decided to borrow them. I love that this series takes on supernatural elements but still manages to come across as very realistic. The characters are dynamic and well-developed but relatable - they are/become supernaturally powerful but are still incredibly vulnerable, just like the rest of us. It's comforting that they remain so human, despite their inhuman abilities.
Mia Devlin is a witch and she's a witch I love!This story is, in my opinion, the best of the trilogy. Mia and her ex, back on the isle with the purpose to being with her again, are a great couple.The story has a very sweet side and it's really good.Recommended!
Somehow this third segment just seems less interesting than the first two, in spite of a few very exciting events. 3.5 rounded up to 4.
Not her best, but okay.
And now in Book 3: Face the Fire: [Mia & Sam]: Mia would face a choice that would either end the curse or end the island as it dropped into the sea.
In book one, I wanted to live on Three Sisters Island.
In book two, I cringed as Ripley snapped and snarled her way to love and victory.
I admired her bravery, her courage and her determination to destroy any and all that would harm her loved ones and the island.
As the story progressed through the books, its presence finally took on form instead of simply possessing others.
