https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/97792.The_Spirit_of_the_Disciplines_
I will summarize the main teaching of this book, then detail the reasons for my confusion in reading it and finally explain the one thing this book helped me to see, which makes me glad I read it.The main purpose of the book is to explain how by seeking after God through the use of disciplines (solitude, fasting, reading, etc) we grow closer to Him and better imitate the life that Jesus lived.
It is by neglecting these disciplines that the witness of the church is weak, many Christians have moral failures, and the mission of Christ’s people is not being accomplished.The first reason for my confusion was that it took him so long to say what he set out to say.
xii) “The Spirit of the Disciplines I snothing but the love of Jesus, with its resolute will to be like him whom we love.” (p.
83) “The disciplines for the spiritual life, rightly understood, are time-tested activities consciously undertaken by us as new men and women to allow our spirit ever-increasing sway over our embodied selves.” (p.
“History and the Meaning of the Disciplines” is an interesting chapter because Willard clearly demonstrates where past practices have encouraged the belief that certain extremes are useful to gaining God’s favor or forgiveness.
Those habits are gradually rehabilitated through the practice of various disciplines (fasting, solitude, Scriptures study, prayer, worship, silence, etc.) so that eventually the flesh becomes strong in service of the willing spirit.The author's premise in his own words:Instead, we will establish, strengthen, and elaborate on this one insight: Full participation in the life of God’s Kingdom and in the vivid companionship of Christ comes to us only through appropriate exercise in the disciplines for life in the spirit.
(Dallas Willard, The Spirit of the Disciplines 86)Here the author favorably quotes and comments on Oswald Chambers:“The question of forming habits on the basis of the grace of God is a very vital one.
Heady.
Willard is a philosopher, so you will find all the reason and logic/arguments behind 'why' questions.
But, if you want a practical, 'how-to' book on spiritual disciplines, this is not the book.
Willard even says so himself, he puts in a plug for Richard Foster's 'Celebration of Discipline' for a practical 'how-to' guide.
But, Willard does offer a great understanding as to the reasons 'why' for the spiritual disciplines, and a call to their diligent practice.
Just a little heady for my taste at times.
We cry out to God asking for our sins to be purged, before living a life filled with choices that contribute to those sins becoming habits.While this is my favorite of the three books, I do wish Willard had spent more time on practical issues.
As much as Willard talks of these disciplines as time-tested, most examples throughout history are still superstars of faith – monks and other unattached people who had the flexibility to do such things.
I do think the disciplines can be applied to the daily life of normal people with jobs and kids.
If Richard Foster's "Celebration of Discipline" is the classic manual for spiritual disciplines, this book is it's companion, explaining the "why" of spiritual practice.
Willard explains why the classical spiritual practices work as God's instruments of human transformation.
Willard is philosophic and practical, but, as a philosophy professor, tilts to the former.
Readers who don't want the in depth philosophic exploration may want to skip some middle chapters.Willard's final chapters on wealth, chastity and Christian influence in the civil/social/cultural sphere are fascinating.
His perspective is both traditional and boldly novel.Anyone seeking to better understand and practice the spiritual disciplines will want to carefully read this.
Pastors especially should give it a careful reading.
"How to live as Jesus lived." Willard reveals how the key to self-transformation resides in the practice of the spiritual disciplines (which are solitude and silence, prayer, simple and sacrificial living, meditation upon God's word and ways, and service to others).
This book changed my life!
Good.

A great introduction to the need for spiritual disciplines in the life of the disciple and how they work.
There is a difference between trying and training.
If you try to run a marathon, you will fail unless you first train.
You will not succeed in in "trying" to respond in a Christ-like way, unless you, through the spiritual disciplines "train" to be daily abiding in Christ.
Much to think about, but to apply.
I think it is time to take the spiritual disciplines more seriously then I have in the past.
Other people much wiser than me have written detailed reviews of this book with excellent support for the reasons why they did or did not like certain aspects of the book. I will not even pretend to be as intelligent or eloquent as they, so will merely say that there was much I appreciated about this book, but also much with which I disagreed, particularly from a theological standpoint.
Would recommend and would read again. Ch on poverty is v helpful
Summary: Dallas Willard's classic work explaining why and how spiritual disciplines are vital for transformation into the character of Christ as his disciples.This book, along with Richard Foster's Celebration of Discipline, were instrumental in introducing spiritual disciplines and spiritual formation into the parlance and practice of both mainline and evangelical Protestant Christianity.
This work has been in print for 27 years and it may be time to take a fresh look at what has become a classic reference work on spiritual disciplines.Willard contends that one of the major challenges facing the church is the transformation of character in the lives of Christians.
Since I was REALLY WORKING hard at Kijabe Hospital, trying to relearn everything I used to know as a pediatrician and apply it to a totally Kenyan context it was a relief to have someone, my second night there, tell me I was invited to their book study.
I have been telling myself I needed to read this book ever since I read Foster's the Celebration of Disciplines a year ago.
It was an interesting group that I read the book with.
Half of the group were in training, to become the first pediatric surgeons in Madagascar or Etheopia.
In this book Willard makes the astonishing claim that we really can be like Christ.
Most of the book is philosophical, theological, and psychological explanations of why a spiritual life like Christ is actually possible, and how traditional Christian theology has done us a disservice by saying it's not (or if no one actually says that, then they act like it's not possible by diminishing or ignoring the role of spiritual disciplines for transformation in the on-going life of the church).
This book has me rethinking the value of spiritual disciplines and why it's time for me to go deeper into them.
It's been at least five years since I read this book.
Pretty heavy going.
We've been so focused on winning converts that we've failed to do much in the way of training, sometimes hiding behind phrases like, "People should quickly become self-feeders." Or, "We're not going to do so much hand-holding." Willard really challenges that kind of thinking.
My bright insight is a simple tracking sheet for the people I shepherd.
Kind of a Dallas Willard meets David Allen?Goal 1: Know ChristGoal 2: Grow in his likeness1) Presuming you already know Christ, do you want to grow in his likeness?
I have again read through much of this book that I read a number of years ago. The author does a wonderful job of showing how God has made our bodies and spirits dependent on each other as far as living out our spiritual lives. To ignore the fact that we need to discipline our bodies to help reinforce our relationship with God is to ignore the previous mentioned truth.The author powerfully makes the case for reintroducing the "spiritual disciplines" into our modern lives ... ie. solitude, fasting,frugality, study, worship, celebration, confession ....

Libro fundamental para toda persona que quiere llegar a ser como Jesús de una manera alcanzable y práctica. Dallas Willard nos explica como las Disciplinas Espirituales (como la oración, el silencio, la soledad, etc) en compañía con Dios, nos ayudan a moldear y transformar nuestras vidas para, como resultado, llegara ser así agentes de cambio para nuestra sociedad. El tema de las Disciplinas está exelentemente desarrollado y fundamentado por Dallas Willard. Libro totalmente recomendable.
Whew. This is an intellectual read. If Foster's Celebration of Discipline is the how of practicing spiritual disciplines, Willard's The Spirit of the Disciplines is the philosophical, theological why the disciplines are important and vital to following Jesus.Read this slowly to digest all the good content.
In my view, Willard has few parallels in terms of practical advice on growing in virtue. There are some flaws in his theology, but the gold far, far outweighs whatever dross might be here. I have personally benefitted in countless ways from his teaching.
~Dallas WillardWhere is our Christ, who is alive and lives in power?
Such confidence and personal knowledge of divine grace makes its possessor joyful, bold, and full of warm affection toward God and all created things – all of which the Holy Spirit works in faith.
To ignore it is to fall into the snare of the Pharisee – the grace of God is praised, Jesus Christ is praised, the Redemption is praised, but the practical everyday life evades working it out.
If we to embrace the disciplines which Jesus practiced, we will eventually find his yoke is easy and his burden is light.
Willard wrote: “Think of certain young people who idolize an outstanding baseball player.
These young people try anything and everything their idol does, hoping to be like him—they buy the type of shoes the star wears, the same glove he uses, the same bat.
The star performer himself didn't achieve his excellence by trying to behave in a certain way only during the game.
This author basically argues, that it is not hard for Christians to be like Christ, as long as you develop the habit of disciplining yourself with "spiritual disciplines." He says these spiritual disciplines are like basic athletic trainings that an athlete has to go through in order to achieve high performance on the competition field (a.k.a. becoming Christlike in everyday life).
(In contrast, only one chapter deals with describing the actual spiritual disciplines.)The author argues Christians shouldn't be content with just receiving God's forgiveness, but should also seek to live a new life.

This book was recommended through our Pastor at church and I was interested because not growing up thoroughly in the church, spiritual disciplines were somewhat of a mystery.
I guess perhaps though that will be found in finding and reading books written on a specific discipline.
Besides that, this was a well written, thought provoking, and convicting book.
I appreciated his wisdom, his conviction, and his resources upon which he drew upon including a good understanding of the Bible and commonly, but incorrectly used, passages.Recommend for:- Anyone interested in what spiritual disciplines are and why they are important- People looking to grow in their faith- 13+- Small group study
This is a deep and beautiful book about the practical and physical aspect of our spiritual lives.
Well, it's actually about the theology and philosophy of why being physical in our faith matters so much.
And it does a wonderful job correcting the errors Christians have made throughout the century in these areas (e.g. the difference between discipline and legalism).
And if you want a practical discussion on how to do these various disciplines this isn't it.
In combination with that book it could be life changing.
I've heard great things about Dallas Willard, but this book was a letdown.
He spends half the book extolling spiritual disciplines, then only one chapter rapidly overviewing practical implementation ideas.
Credit for seeing how toxic that would become from the outset of the effort to co-opt Christianity into a political party.He's clearly a good writer, and I will likely try at least one more book of his to see if I connect with it better than this one.
Reading level is just about college level.
Dallas Willard provides a great tool for any believer who asks the question, "What do I do now" after they have converted.
For the believers that coast throughout their existence on this earth with little intention to mature in their salvation, beware this book.
Willard sets out to convince the reader that we are called to do everything Jesus did, that includes fasting, silence and solitude, and other spiritual disciplines.
THough this is not a book to be read quickly and flippantly, I would encourage any believer to internalize this content.
