https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33606119-why-i-m-no-longer-talking-to-white-people-about-race
It was approximately five months ago that my book club was speaking about race since we were discussing Americanah by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie. I found myself being the unique reference since I was the only black person in the room. https://browngirlreading.com/2017/08/...
"Why I'm No Longer Talking to Black People about Race."Consider that statement if you want to read this book. Avoid the mental gymnastics of postmodernism. Ask yourself, "does this statement show love and respect to other humans?" If you answered no, then you are not a moron. Stay that way. Treat people as individuals, not as stereotypes.
This book was prompted by the viral response that resulted from the posting of  this message  on the author's blog. I think the message is worth reading because it provides an excellent articulation of the near impossibility of communicating the fact of structural racism to white people who happen to be unwitting beneficiaries of it.Below I've listed the main terms defined, explored and discussed in this book. The definitions are as I understand them to be from reading the book. My definitions a
I think the message is worth reading because it provides an excellent articulation of the near impossibility of communicating the fact of structural racism to white people who happen to be unwitting beneficiaries of it.Below I've listed the main terms defined, explored and discussed in this book.
Being color blind often makes people blind to the consequences of past wrongs and thus blind to structural racism today.This book says that racism is a problem for whites to solve because the power to do so resides with them.
One of the best books I have ever read, Why I'm No Longer Talking to White People About Race is essential reading for anyone who cares about social justice, other people, and the state of our society.
Reni Eddo-Lodge provides a thorough and incisive history of slavery and racism in Britain, followed by several powerful chapters about white privilege, white-washed feminism, race and class, and more.
I will end this review with a quote about how white people can contribute to the movement:"I also believe that white people who recognise racism have an incredibly important part to play.
It's amazing that they can laugh at white people for getting racist abuse but not the other way round.I was (many years ago), waiting for a bus in East Ham when a young asian woman with a baby was racialy abused by a black guy, because she was pushing a buggy and going slow he points at her shouting, "Why don't you fuck off back to YOUR own country bitch".Not being able to let this stand I responded that "She has got as much right to be in MY country as you".
A school of thought that favours whiteness at the expense of those who aren't."Reni Eddo-Lodge further explains that she is unwilling to talk to white people who do not want to listen, who do not want to talk, who shut down because a discussion about race feels like a personal threat, not one that wants to spread awareness and acceptance.So if you do feel upset about this title...read the book anyway.
“When do you think we’ll get to an end point?”“There is no end point in sight,’ I reply. ‘You can’t skip to the resolution without having the difficult, messy conversation first. We’re still in the hard bit.” In 2014, Reni Eddo-Lodge made a blog post, from where emerges the book title, about why she does not want to talk to white people about race. The response was overwhelming, both from whites and people of color. Motivated by the response, she decided to continue the conversation in this boo
In 2014, Reni Eddo-Lodge made a blog post, from where emerges the book title, about why she does not want to talk to white people about race.
Motivated by the response, she decided to continue the conversation in this book in an attempt to bridge the gap that exists in a discourse about race.This book is personal, it’s not about grander ideas of life and history.
That is, “When feminists can see the problem with all-male panels, but can’t see the problem with all-white television programmes, it’s worth questioning who they’re really fighting for.”I don’t agree with Eddo-Lodge 100% of the time obviously, nor can I always relate, but this is still a voice worth listening.
But her narrative voice – which she complains is too often characterised as ‘angry’ because she’s a black woman – is increasingly monotonous, patronising and illogical, with vast leaps between evidence and conclusions, and she repeatedly misrepresents or mischaracterises dissenters and their views (whether socialist commentators or those who opposed Rhodes Must Fall), slinging accusations at them which simply aren’t borne out by the case studies she offers.Eddo-Lodge isn’t a historian – the selected examples of 20th century British racism are horrific but presented with no real coherent commentary or through-line – she isn’t a particularly good writer, and she seems to lack the rigorousness, contextual aptitude and transmittable empathy to be a decent polemicist.
Reni Eddo-Lodge no longer wants to talk to white people about race because white people always manage to make the conversation about themselves.
That part can’t be played while wallowing in guilt.” Apropos of this exhortation, a racial justice educator based in Boston, Debby Irving, wrote a book on race primarily for white people, called Waking Up White, detailing her experiences waking up to an unconscious racism.
Eddo-Lodge, despite her exhaustion talking about race with white people, is doing her part.
And because white people hold the power to hire, fire, reward, punish, recognise or ignore black people, these presumptions become racism.
Everyone is complicit, but no one wants to take on responsibility.” Overcoming white privilege is intimately personal and non-political, and for just those reasons extremely difficult.“Seeing race is essential to changing the system,” she says.
Without this sort of positive, painful, persistent empathy, structural racism will continue to exist for generations and centuries to come.Whether one agrees with her or not, Eddo-Lodge has to be taken seriously for what she has accomplished: the articulation of a devastating, factual description of the world from inside black skin.
It's about asking why whiteness has this reflexive need to define itself against immigrant bogey monsters in order to feel comfortable, safe and secure." This book discusses structural racism, with focus on Britain, at length.
"You can't hear English (Norwegian) on the bus anymore." "In year xxxx, us whites will be the minority because immigrant women are having more children." It seems that white people have a need to deny that racism exists and that that white is considered the norm.
The characters of books are white, unless explicitly told that they are something else.
I have been following the discourse closely for a few years (ever since I realized how white my formal academic background is I felt the need to remedy that) and I think the most important work in recent feminism has been done by intersectional feminists (and here especially black woman).
Reni Eddo-Lodge shows the structures of privilege and the way these spaces that should be inclusive can end up being the opposite.The chapters that read more like text-book entries (for example on White Privilege) are equally stringently argued but for me those did not quite work – as I said, I do think I am fairly well-read in this area.
Although I do believe many points she made are valid, I have a hard time with how a lot of the book makes generalities and doesn't back up what it's claiming.
If you read one book this year: make it this one.
I think that society – in general, including black people – has racial bias (which is sad and a real problem), but what Reni often says in this book is that most of the racism is conscious and it doesn’t matter if the law disapproves this behavior, because the power is retained by  white males.
On the contrary, she just assumed that her arguments were better than all, her privilege gave her authority over all, so the only solution – whereas they don’t agree with me – is to stop talking to white people about race.
From my perspective, it immediately hits at the point that white people benefit from their race without even realising it.
What the author dubs as ‘structural racism’ is a construct designed to limit the success of black people, therefore repeatedly following a pattern of repression that is supported by white apathy, leading to black hate crime, poverty and discrimination.
This I all agreed with wholeheartedly, and appreciated the lengths the author went to express her opinions to try and make me, a privileged white woman, understand.
Essential reading to those wanting to expand their outlook on the way they see race.
A brave, deeply researched history/informology shared with due precision and depth, this is an issue that provokes acknowledgment, thought, response; fertile material for the thinking/feeling humans among us today.On a personal note, as a mixed race southern woman I can tell you that my skin color errs on the side of “white”, the generations before me uneasily “passing”.
Society is still beset by decisions formed by the prejudices of previous generations whose strong opinions trickled down into inhumane laws (and slanted interpretations of those laws) made by materially profiting people in other times not our own.
Reni Eddo-Lodge wrote in the Guardian (June 2017) where she stated, White privilege is a manipulative, suffocating blanket of power that envelopes everything we know, like a snowy day.Why wouldn’t we wish to talk to white people about race, this would be an automatic response to the title of this book from any normal white person and many black people too.
I write this review with an awareness that this book was never designed for my consumption or even education: this is such a personal account of Reni's experience and the historical experience of all POC in Britain and that connection is deeply felt in Reni's direct, emotive prose.
I have felt a plethora of emotions while reading this book and have been shook to the core by the knowledge of the racist roots in my hometown, the slave port in my university town, Exeter, and the generally disgusting crimes my race have perpetrated throughout the many years of imperialism.
I read Why I'm No Longer Talking To White People About Race based upon the recommendation of Yamini. So make sure to check out her review. Shutting up about racism creates the sort of silence that requires some to suffer so that others are comfortable. And it's definitely a book that I, myself, will start recommending to people. Reni Eddo-Lodge has a very distinct and clear voice. I liked that she displayed her thoughts in such a structured way, and didn't try to sound academic or elaborate. Thi
You don't need a degree in Gender of African Studies to understand it, and that's why I appreciate it so much.On 22 February 2014, Reni Eddo-Lodge published a post on her blog entitled Why I'm No Longer Talking To White People About Race.
Researchers found that applicants with white-sounding names were called to interview far more often than those with African- or Asian-sounding names.A 2013 British report revealed that black people are twice as likely to be charged with drugs possession, despite lower rates of drug use.
When I think of a book I want to put in everybody's hands, I think of this one.You could see this book as an essay on how racism is one of the most important pillars of British society — but also of the Western society —, how it's at the roots of everything, and how we — people of colour and white people — should work on dismantling it from its core.I need you to understand that as a mixed-race Asian person, I connected with this book at such an important level, and if I was able to find myself in it, then imagine what this book must mean to black and brown people.
She makes it very clear early on that she no longer engages in discussions about race with white people who refuse to accept that structural racism is still a thing.
It's just a reality that those who are "others" see as one more obstacle they must overcome.Why I'm No Longer Talking to White People About Race focuses primarily on the structural racism that inhabits Britain.
Not that I'd wish the struggle on other people of color, but the fact that it's not just us, black Americans, that feel the weight of structural racism sort of makes me wanna scream "finally someone gets it!"Boy, does Reni Eddo-Lodge get it.Eddo-Lodge goes into a few topics in great detail in a way that would make most say oh, I get it now.
The evidence is all around us with anyone who raises there voices and being a person of colour being silenced by white people, clear pay gaps, disadvantages in housing, education, and racist policies that have lead to Brexit and Trump being elected President of the United States.It is understandable that young black people like Eddo-Lodge are becoming sick and tired of the brick wall they are facing when it comes to race, and for a white person reading this you may well feel uncomfortable.
The author then follows this with a devastating set of statistics on black attainment “But they are not the result of a lack of black excellence, talent, education, hard work or creativity”, before setting out a compelling defense of the necessity of affirmative action in the face of that way in which “Britain’s relationship with race infects and distorts equal opportunity”This then leads into a discussion of white privilege
Mas ela é muito objetiva e didática em todos os pontos que aborda e isso é muito bacana.
Todos pontos que já tinha ouvido de forma geral, mas foi muito legal ter uma análise tão objetiva e com argumentos tão claros.
Outras coisa interessante é que, sendo da Inglaterra, ela aponta como o racismo funciona por lá.
Como um país colonialista lidou com as consequências da exploração racial por todo planeta (spoiler, muito mal!) e como a identidade do que é "ser inglês" é vista como ameaçada pelos conservadores.Recomendo bastante a leitura!
First exposure to intersectionality is like being handed a pair of glasses you didn't know you needed.
“We tell ourselves that good people can’t be racist. We seem to think that true racism only exists in the hearts of evil people. We tell ourselves that racism is about moral values, when instead it is about survival strategies and systemic power.” Why I'm No Longer Talking to White People About Race is incredibly thought-provoking, eye-opening, educational, and insightful. I usually rate books based on my enjoyment first and foremost, but this one … I really can’t say that I enjoyed reading it.
I usually rate books based on my enjoyment first and foremost, but this one … I really can’t say that I enjoyed reading it.I believe that the majority of us don’t particularly like to think, read, or talk about the issue of racism, and how it is still pervasive in our society, even to this day.
I have to say that I read parts of this book, which details the history of the non-white people, who came to Britain to work, to raise families, to live better lives, with despair.
It is the story also of how they were treated, and how their families were treated by the people who were supposed to protect them, the police.
I remember certain times in history that were detailed in this book, but there were others that I knew nothing about, that I was never taught in school, and I have to admit, at times I felt ashamed.
I do think everyone should read this book.
She decided to keep the title to reflect how the conversation started.I'm not sure this book covers a whole lot of new ground in talking about race, class, feminism and how these all intersect, but it does so in a very clear and accessible way.
I think it is very important and shocking omission, which Eddo-Ledge has rightly highlighted here.The author also includes analysis of how race and sex intersect, as well as race and class, and these are very clearly and thoughtfully explained, as is the concept of 'white privilege':When I talk about white privilege, I don't mean that white people have it easy, that they've never struggled, or that they've never lived in poverty.
The preface is perhaps the reason this book came to be written.
Not by slight of hand, or selective texts but by a look at Black history from a British perspective.I liked the comments highlighting how the white focus is on watering down the issue.
But one that is well written and throws light on educational ignorance on these matters is to be embraced.It isn’t a comfortable read but it is good to listen to an articulated point of view well argued.
It is good to listen through reading and I for one would like to hear more from this bright voice and informative communicator.
