https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31336.The_Tale_of_the_Body_Thief
The first Rice novel I ever read.
I was reading a hideously boring Candadian novel, and the young lady in line next to me was reading The Tale of the Body Thief.
We switched books.
Soon after, when I was in Sorrento a few weeks later, I was searching for any Rice books I could find.
Reading this book was like wearing a mink coat inside-out i.e. you feel the soft luxurious fur on your skin.
Lestat and his friend must find the "body thief".
What attracts you to the story and keeps you reading is the language Rice uses and the character of Lestat.
She's way too in love with her own writing at this point. Takes ten pages to describe the front of a mansion. In the words of the great Casey Kasem: Ponderous man, f'ing ponderous.
This book is very good. It is well written and packed of life reflections. There is no doubt that Anne Rice knows what she is doing.Particularly, I just dont think that this installment is at the same level as the first three books of this series. To me, this book seems to center more in introspections and rumination than in the actual plot. The storyline feels like an excuse for all the pondering, deliberating and meditating that the characters do. Dont get me wrong, it was very interesting, it
There is no doubt that Anne Rice knows what she is doing.Particularly, I just don´t think that this installment is at the same level as the first three books of this series.
Don´t get me wrong, it was very interesting, it just didn´t capture me as much as the others did.
To me the actual story ended with the third book, so it took me a while to get into this one, it took me three separate tries actually, but I finally did.
To be fair, there is very little story here to get into.
I had quite a few months between "Queen of the Damned" and whatever THIS is.This book has a thread of a good idea - a being who can switch bodies and Lestat who wants to be a human again - and RUINS it with endless talking and thinking about the same points ad nauseum.
After, of course, long, clunky chapters talking about what God is, who the devil is, and all sorts of religious issues that the author must have been working through at the time.A quarter of a book later, Lestat meets up with the Body Thief.
• I thought that this is by far Anne Rice’s best description of Lestat’s true character. Everything he did in this book was exactly what I would expect someone who is supposed to be so selfish and evil to do. Throughout the rest of the books Rice tries so hard to tell you that Lestat is really not good, that he can do evil things, and she tries desperately to make him into this anti-hero. This is the first book where I think she does a really good job of it. This makes me want to read more about
Throughout the rest of the books Rice tries so hard to tell you that Lestat is really not good, that he can do evil things, and she tries desperately to make him into this anti-hero.
This is the first book where I think she does a really good job of it.
In Queen of the Damned, it seemed like she tried to tell a story while telling us all about her vampires’ history.
I think that if she would have either done one or the other, the result would have been good, but as it turned out, both the story and the history faltered.
No, nada de eso encontrarás en los libros de Rice, que explota la figura de Polidori y Stoker desde dentro, creando vampiros más introspectivos, reflexivos y, si se quiere, humanos, conscientes del error, la belleza, el caos y la divinidad, como no es imaginada desde Rimbaud.Una obra muy recomendada para las tardes lluviosas de Bogotá, y hasta para los domingos asoleados en el parque.
3.5 stars. Another solid chapter in one of the most iconic vampire series of all time. It is amazing that even after all this time (and the endless series of vampire novels) that this series still shines as one of the better ones. Recommended!!!
I enjoyed Tale of the Body Thief more than any other installment of Anne Rice's Vampire Chronicles up to this point in the series.
Unlike all of her other vampire novels, Rice doesn't spend half the book in flashbacks relating someone's history, and for that we are rewarded.
I wanted to see Lestat in present day!
Rice personified it to the extent you feel she really does know what it's like to look from the outside at our species, and it's uncanny how she transforms Lestat's outlook in the process.
Yes, this book made me want to live in Lestat's shoes for a day.
The Tale of the Body Thief is the 4th book in the Vampire Chronicles by Anne Rice.
Of course, every single person that Lestat talks to instructs him NOT to go.So, being Lestat he goes.The man who Lestat meets offers him a once in a lifetime opportunity- to be mortal again.
After centuries of immortality, Lestat could walk in daylight, taste wine and foods, and once again experience life through mortal eyes.
Lestat is forced to be mortal for much longer than he intended.
I didn’t know whether Lestat would be able to track down the man who had taken possession of his body.
In this, the fourth book in the series, Anne Rice has almost inverted that: Lestat de Lioncourt is front and center through all of it; the reader gets to, finally, see him fall, and seek redemption.
The concept is pretty simple: Lestat, after over two centuries of being a vampire, has grown weary of it all.
By combining her trademark erotic and horrific tendencies with a hilarious and enthralling fish-out-of-water scenario (Lestat was human in the 1700s, mind you, and is attempting human life once more in the early 1990s), Anne Rice created a truly addictive read — perhaps the closest she’s come to a true crime thriller .
This one was took the series back up a notch for me. I was dissapointed in Queen of the Damned.
This book, however, takes it a little bit further.It wasn't just Lestat looking at mortals he fell in and out of love in a time lapse of 10 minutes, it was actually him living in man's flesh the fragility of it all.
The anguish behind questions so fundamental like what can you do with your life to make it matter, how do you transcend, how to affect the big picture or does this big picture even matter at all.This book actually feels as an outsider looking into what it means to be human, to be fragile.
And victory is far more interesting to contemplate than revenge.”It's weird re-reading this book in a good way.
It's full of long descriptions, winy vampires and humans, and a old man that somehow captured Lestat's attention.
I love old man David and felt his ending was perfect.
Yes it's pretentious and unnecessary but it felt like I was in those places as I read fifteen pages of Miami heat.
I liked the religious debates going on between David and Lestat.
It's interesting seeing that vampires view themselves as evil yet some people (the people that get close to them) are like "nah, your good.
The plot was slow (really slow for a while in the beginning), the writing was a bit odd with the flashbacks and characters telling long stories to one another, but I'm invested in the characters, and that's why I can't stop reading this series.This one was much more focused on Lestat though, whereas the other books had a lot about the other vampires as well.
(hide spoiler)] *END SPOILER* This is something I plan to talk more in-depth about in a discussion on my blog soon.My Thoughts on Everything Else (there might be *SPOILERS* in this section):Honestly the little lover's quarrel between Lestat and Louis around 26% was the best part of the book.
Lestat, always one looking for trouble, always philosophizing, meets with a Body Thief: a man capable of switching bodies with other people, most of the time against their will.
Lestat agrees to switch bodies with this Body Thief for one day, so that he can feel what it is like to be human again.As one expects, everything does not go as plan, and Lestat has to try and get himself out of the dangerous position he has put himself in.I thoroughly enjoyed the descriptions of Lestat's rediscovery of human life, although it made being human suddenly seem disgusting to me, and made me, much like Lestat, wish to be the immortal undead.
Why did I like this book so much?
I shouldn't have liked this book, anyway; there were a lot of little things that irked me while I was reading it - but in the end, there I was completely engrossed again.
Raglan is a kickass weirdo of a character (and her descriptions of his movements in the fantastically creepy lead-up to his introduction have stuck with me for half a decade now); she's still obviously a liiiittle bit too obsessively in love with her own Lestat, to the point the brattiness he (and she) takes such pride in gets annoying, but his first (re)impressions of the human world are, like everything Ricean, so expertly crafted and weirdly insightful that I ended up thinking of this book every time I drank orange juice for something like six months.Also, he finally gets to have sex with someone!
Or, you know, a lot of someones.
This is okay and has an interesting premise.
The premise is pretty simple: Lestat meets a psychic who can steal bodies and decides to switch place with the guy for a year because he's staggeringly bored with unlife.
The funny thing is that I completely buy Lestat is so used to reading people's minds and manipulating them that he misses a psychotic body stealing mass murderer might not want to lose his new immortal vampire superbody.
You can basically guess where the plot goes from there.It's basically a comic book plot with strong characterization and some genuinely memorable moments.
Lestat is at it again. Such an impetuous beast! Triple dog dare him and he will do it in a heartbeat. This time he meets a man who can switch souls and steal bodies as if they are mere vessels. His acquaintance may be Lestat’s undoing. Along with his close friend, David, they chase this man down. Louis makes an appearance as well as Claudia. Loved that! We soar to Paris, the Bahamas, New Orleans. Lots of money thrown around. Rice does it again.
A good story - interesting and captivating - but it is safe to say that Lestat has to be the world's biggest moron to not see what happens coming. Also - I predicted one of the big "twists" at the end, but not the final one - so good on Anne Rice for that.There was one scene that probably didn't need to be written in complete detail, which knocked this down a star.I am still interested in seeing where and what Lestat gets himself into next.
This is part of my quest to read and re-read the Anne Rice Vampire series and the Mayfair Witches series as they blend together.
Lestat is once again our narrator and his attachment to the Talamasca leader David Talbot takes a central role in the story.
That thread of the story is very interesting and sad and at times exciting but I really enjoyed the exploration of Lestat's feelings for the mortal David Talbot.
I found myself feeling terribly sympathetic towards Lestat as he seems rather like a sweet mooncalf in his adoration of David.
When the Body Thief (the guy he's traded with) promptly disappears (which, of course he was going to Lestat, you bloody idiot) Lestat finds it more a nightmare than a dream being stuck in such a fragile body and starts a desperate search for the fiend so he can recover his own and wreak revenge.Rice really has a firm grasp on Lestat's voice now and he's never less than entertaining (even while being a complete bastard), but never more so than during his period stuck in the mortal body.
It'll be extremely interesting to see how the dynamics of this new group play themselves out over the coming books (if they do at all), and I'm looking forward to them immensely.
It has gotten better since I heard his side of the story but I've become a fan after this book.
At least I haven't read a book about a vampire turning human again yet.
You encounter the topic of longing to be human again a lot.
There's a certain romanticizing to the human state because of the longing to be 'normal' again.
Many turns and twists of the story were easy to spot and more than once you wonder how he could've gotten himself into this mess.
ISBN 034538475X - Never having read any of Rice's Vampire Chronicles, I was happy to find that this book does stand alone - no previous knowledge required.Lestat, almost a drama queen in his moments of self-loathing, is approached by a man named Raglan James, who proposes a trade.
That, the very end, is the only part of the book I genuinely disliked - if Lestat's big lesson is to be that he loves being the devil that he is, I would have preferred a less happy ending.
Anne Rice goes the 'freaky friday' route and has Lestat switching bodies with a human. Definitely one of the better sequels I've read so far in the series. 3.5 Stars
Mas como é que pode confiar o seu corpo, com todos os seus poderes, a um ladrão sem escrúpulos que faz tudo pelo gosto de tomar posse do que não lhe pertence?
Quando Lestat lhe conta sobre o seu plano de se tornar humano, David avisa-o que não pode confiar de maneira nenhuma no ladrão de corpos.Claro que as coisas acabam por dar para o torto e quando Lestat vai ter com Louis, já na sua forma humana, este nega-lhe qualquer ajuda e apenas David está disposto a ajudá-lo.
The Tale of the Body Thief is told by The Vampire Lestat, Rice's famous "brat prince".
He has befriended David Talbot, of the Talamasca, and constantly offers the old man the Dark Gift, which he always refuses.
However, Raglan has no intention of returning Lestat's immortal and powerful body, leaving him in a weakened state.
After the Louis and Marius both refuse to help Lestat turns to David to reclaim his body.At first, I partially disliked Lestat in Interview with the Vampire.
In The Vampire Lestat and Queen of the Damned, he grew on me.
The Tale of the Body Thief is a difficult book to explain, every time I try it I finally think that I'm telling a bad romantic comedy about changing bodies.
Although for me isn't the best book of Anne Rice, I have to admit that is one of the most entertaining and interesting to read.Spanish version: El Ladrón de cuerpos es un libro difícil de explicar, cada vez que lo hago parece que estoy contando una mala comedia romántica de cambio de cuerpos.
Pero el Ladrón de cuerpos no tiene nada que ver con esas típicas historias en las que mágicamente se transmitan los cuerpos entre dos personas.
I LOVED THE TALE OF THE BODY THIEF.
I loved that Lestat desires to feel sunlight.
I loved how Lestat loves bread and orange juice.
I loved Lestat for loving a woman.
I loved Lestat for loivng Mojo.
Mojo.
I loved Lestat for wanting and needing and fighting for his rightful body because Lestat is meant to be a vampire.
I loved that I met my dear dear Louie, the vampire, once again.
I savored this tale, reading it slowly each night because I just did not want it to end.
I really like this book, it is from Lesats point of view and is interesting. Lesat is being followed by a man, a human man, who offers him a chance to be human again. Against his friends wishes he takes the deal which leads to horrible results. This book has some small problems, but the last chapters 32 and on really made me want to throw the book at the wall the first time I read it. Now I understand it but it still upsets me.
Lestat got in trouble, and became HUMAN! And wanted his Vampire body back! What a neat twist and insight into the character of this impulsive Lestat! Great read, and continuation of the vampire series, but different direction. Excellent read.
