https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1915479.L_quipage
I would have read this properly had the Netgalley copy had less mistakes in it. One to try in a physical copy, I feel.
it's a story about love and friendship, but it's well written
It can be a bit of a slow read but it does shed light on the way these relationships are forged, as well as highlighting the increasing tension between Jean and Claude, but it also drives home towards the end of the novel the tragedy of war, of the youth dying and the old and the women and everyone who were left behind lingering in their wake.Talk about the war being a ripe setting for a personal drama!
Doubts and questions about whether they are talking about the same woman does arise much earlier, and Jean comes to the truth of the matter somewhere midway, leaving tensions pretty amped up until the end when Claude finds out.
The troubled relationship between the pilot and his observer of a WWI French reconnaissance plane is explored in this short but compelling novel.
Together the two are one of the best aircrews around but an unexpected connection between that comes to light puts everything at risk.
First published in France in 1923, it’s a tribute to heroism and the brotherhood of men at arms, and based on the author's own experience, which gives it real authenticity.
It was the author’s first literary success and is certainly an accomplished debut novel.
Its themes are equally relevant today as they were then, and in spite of its age the novel seems timeless.
Ça faisait un bout de temps que je voulais lire L'Équipage, l'un des tout premiers romans de Kessel. Comme l'auteur l'avait fait, le personnage principal du roman s'engage dans une escadrille d'aviateurs pendant la Première Guerre mondiale (on retrouve d'ailleurs aussi son goût pour l'aviation dans Mermoz). On rajoute un triangle amoureux et l'angoisse de ne pas savoir combien d'avions reviendront avec leurs passagers en vie, et on a un bon roman pour accompagner nos froides soirées hivernales !
Un bon roman, facile à lire. L'histoire d'un jeune garçon qui ne rêve que de gloire et d'honneurs, découvre l'amitié fraternelle avec son coéquipier. Ce qui est intéressant aussi c'est de voir le point de départ littéraire de Kessel : le style, plus simple n'en est pas moins annonciateur du Lion ou de La Vallée des rubis.
This was a really interesting look at war, relationships, and friendships. I read this after finishing an account of the Mary Celeste, and was looking for another "Ghost Ship" sort of thing. This was very different, but also very good.
French airman in First World War - a love story and story about early flight. Descriptions of friendships forged in war and death very powerful. Love story, less so.
