https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/280985.Enter_a_Murderer
The story continues with Nigel Bathgate, journalist, inviting his friend Detective Inspector Alleyn to a night at the theater and a chance to meet the crew before the show.
It’s a fabulous set-up, allowing the reader a bit of insight Alleyn doesn’t know yet, but also priming the tension for what is to come.
Detective Alleyn gets to work, with the faithful yet equally gullible Nigel as his note-taking sidekick.
Still, Marsh is great at setting a scene and creating a mood.Characters were fun, with Marsh generally stressing the larger-than-life theater type personality.
Ngaio Marsh is a mystery writer with style, and in this early book she and Inspector Alleyn are in their element--the theatre. Her character sketches of the members of the theatre troupe are particularly fine.
This is the second book featuring Chief Detective-Inspector Roderick Alleyn.
In this mystery, Alleyn is invited to the theatre by journalist friend, Nigel Bathgate, who he met in the first adventure, “A Man Lay Dead.” Again, Bathgate knows one of the principal characters, in this case the leading man, Felix Gardener.
It is humorous when Alleyn is annoyed by the actors hamming it up and you do wonder if she is having a sly dig for her own amusement.
This is a delightful Golden Age mystery, with a fun plot and cast of characters and Alleyn is a wonderful detective.
I find Marsh annoyingly arch & twee & if she wasn't a snob herself, she seemed to delight in creating snobbish characters But I enjoyed this book very much.The books main strengths come from Marsh's own theatrical background & her sly depictions of the actors all seeing themselves in turns of a performance.
What I found a little clumsy was (view spoiler)[ Marsh's stiff & awkward depiction of heroin use.
(hide spoiler)] Clearly something she wasn't comfortable with & knew little about.But in this book Marsh & theatre = awesome!
I've now read the first 2 Alleyn mysteries consecutively in about week and Ive really enjoyed them both.
The only reason Ive read 2 in succession is to catch up in my challenge.
This was another intriguing case for D.C.I. Alleyn and his cohorts, including Nigel the journalist, with an abundance of red herrings and hidden clues, brought to a successful conclusion in time honoured denouement fashion.(As an aside I do think reading them in quick succession is not recommended as one loses track of which investigation one is in.
La mayor parte de la novela está compuesta por diálogos y acciones, sobre todo diálogos, que son ágiles, ligeros, y tratan de ser divertidos la mayoría de las veces.
Como tal, no tiene tacha, y de hecho me gusta más que la anterior novela de la autora que leí "Un hombre muerto", creo que está más pulida, es más interesante y más compleja, o al menos con un misterio más elaborado.Todo fan de este género debería leer este libro, porque sin duda lo disfrutará y pasará un buen rato.
She is known mostly for her detective series which contains 32 novels featuring Chief Inspector Roderick Alleyn (later Chief Superintendent) of the Criminal Investigation Department, Metropolitan Police, London.
However, she is also well recognized for her extensive activities as a theater director and it is this background upon which this particular novel is built.“Enter a Murderer” is the second novel in the Inspector Alleyn series and it boasts an absolutely classic whodunit plot.
But nevertheless, it was fun to watch Alleyn and the others do the legwork for me and simply be part of the large group to be surprised when the murderer is revealed.I plan to read two more from this series this year, one from the middle and one from near the end.
1935, #2 Chief Detective-Inspector Roderick Alleyn, London; first of her eight theatre-centered novels, old-fashioned but nicely sly; classic theatre mystery - really three-and-a-half stars, not four.Arthur Surbonadier was a rotter who happened to also be a pretty good, not great, actor.
One of the things I enjoy most about Marsh's writing is that in most of the novels there is a lack of both a sappy Watson character and of the lead policeman endlessly falling in love with totally unsuitable types; unfortunately both are quite present in this early novel.
An average murder mystery. Murder committed during a play. My first Ngaio Marsh. Not impressed with inspector Allyn. And the layout of the stage, the dressing room and the numerous passages, I did not get which was crucial to the mystery. May try out more from this author but not too soon.
Can't you see?"Inspector Roderick Alleyn's journalist pal Nigel Bathgate is friends with Felix Gardener, leading man in the up-and-coming London play The Rat & the Beaver.
In the play, Gardener plays the Rat who "shoots" his fellow actor Arthur Surbonadier (aka the Beaver).
And the disgruntled actor was more the murderous type than the well-liked Gardener.But did Gardener load the pistol with real bullets?
But who had the nerve...and the opportunity...to make the switch and change a prop into a real murder weapon?Marsh's second novel is as entertaining as the first.
Roderick Alleyn has been invited to the theatre by Nigel Bathgate, during the performance what should have been a fake shooting turns into the real thing and Scotland Yard (in the person of Alleyn) needs to track through blackmail, bribery and lies to find out the truth behind the killing.Marsh is still finding her feet as a author but Alleyn is becoming a more believable character in this the second book.
Reseña completa: http://www.lacavernaliteraria.com/201...Agatha Christie supo dibujar con maestría casos inolvidables con protagonistas célebres en decenas de novelas policiales.
Pero Ngaio Marsh, coetánea de la autora británica, logró crear atmósferas similares en sus más de treinta libros encabezados por Roderick Alleyn.
Nada tiene que envidiar Un asesino en escena a las averiguaciones de Poirot o Marple.
La escritora neozelandesa vierte con acierto sus conocimientos como directora escénica en el crimen del Unicorn, con lo que dota de una destacada verosimilitud a la escenografía que rodea la muerte de Surbonadier.
Sin duda, la segunda novela de Marsh deja una propuesta brillante para lectores avezados en lides detectivescas.
I love English mysteries, where else do you get to read phrases like, “you fatuous old bag of tripe!”
Such a good read! If only the ending were a tiny bit better it would be five stars.
Roderick Alley series:3* A Man Lay Dead (Roderick Alleyn, #1) 3* Enter a Murderer (Roderick Alleyn, 
Our mystery book club is reading books by Dorothy Sayers, Ngaio Marsh, and a few other authors for March.
I have several of Ngaio Marsh's books in the Roderick Alleyn series and decided to revisit them.The word that popped into my mind was "clean." I like Marsh's writing and it seems clean to me.In this particular entry, Alleyn is invited to the theater by one of his friends, a journalist.
The character is supposed to die; the actor portraying the character is shot, as scripted, but the bullet is real.I will be re-reading more of this series.
In some ways, I prefer Alleyn to Lord Peter Wimsey (Sayers' sleuth), but they are both enjoyable to travel with when you're looking for a mystery.
This is the second Roderick Alleyn mystery, and the first of several set in the theatre, a world that Marsh knew well from her own work in drama.
This is the first of two books set at the Unicorn Theatre, and one can see that Marsh is still experimenting with Alleyn, trying to settle on his personality.
He is a vastly different person in this book than he becomes in later novels: much more facetious, almost ridiculous at times though she didn’t intend that.
And the reporter Nigel Bathgate makes his second appearance as Alleyn’s “Watson.” Bathgate would play less and less of a role as the books went on, and then disappear almost entirely.
Ngaio Marsh is very famous but, although her plots are well conceived, her dialogue is so over the top and pretentious that it makes her books difficult to read. Surely, even in the 1930's people just did not talk like this.
I do love a good vintage mystery and in Enter a Murderer, Marsh takes us behind the scenes in a theater, which she does so well.
In addition to a mystery writer, she was a theater director and knew the habits of everyone from actresses to stage managers to dressers.Our Inspector Alleyn is attending a performance of a play with his friend from the first in the series, Nigel Bathgate.
During the play, one of the characters kills another, but this time the gun goes off for real, leaving an actor dead.
Here we have actors and actresses for the most part, which makes it harder on Alleyn.
A very good mystery with a twist at the end.
Inspector Alleyn accepts a friend's invitation to the theater on what was supposed to be a night off.
The fake shooting in the final act turns out to be real and Alleyn is on the scene.
This one has the classic elements, including a small cast of suspects, many with motives.
The fact that most of the suspects are actors adds to the red herrings- Is the response real or just acting?
Yes, there is a classic scene at the end where Alleyn gathers all the suspects at the scene of the crime.
I enjoyed this more than the first book in this series. I feel like Roderick Alleyn is growing on me, though his humor still sometimes goes over my head. A very fun read.
A very clever and very bold theatre murder mystery - I love the detail of this story, and loved the 1930s theatre that it depicts! 10+*Please note: this review is meant as a recommendation only. Please do not use it in any marketing material, online or in print, without asking permission from me first. Thank you!*
Ngaio Marsh is a New Zealand author and one of the Four Queens for Crime.
Arthur is part of a love triangle including leading-lady Stephanie Vaughan, and leading-man Felix Gardener.
Since everyone saw Felix shot Arthur, the question is who replaced the dummy bullets in the stage gun with live ordnance.Many critics credit the Four Queens with the creation of the “cozy mystery” genre.
If you are interested in a mystery without tough guys, sex, or violence, Ngaio Marsh is an author to investigate.For the complete book club report: http://1book42day.blogspot.com/2017/1...
Having read Alleyn 3 before this one, Enter a Murderer was a bit of a let-down.
I thought I had wandered into an episode of "Murder, She Wrote", stilted dialogue, unbelieveable wrap, and all.
(How much did she actually know about heroin addicts?) Yes, I know, it's a vintage cosy.
But if I had read this before "The Nursing Home Murder" I would have given up on Marsh without a backward glance.
Fortunately in vol.
3 there is a decided improvement in voice, devices and plotting.ETA: I just listened to this on audiobook, and had completely forgotten everything except the name and MC of the play!
Nigel Bathgate, the journalist introduced in A Man Lay Dead, gets tickets to a play at the prestigious Unicorn Theater from one of the stars, Felix Gardener, with whom Nigel attended Cambridge, and he takes along with him Detective Inspector Roderick Alleyn.
Visiting Felix before the play, the pair meet much of the cast, including a hostile Arthur Surbonardier, who is clearly drunk but does a fantastic job of pulling off the acting role.
As the play comes to its climax, Felix’s role calls for him to shoot Arthur at point-blank range, a direction complicated to pull off because the shot of a blank in the gun would scorch Arthur’s clothing.
In this second book in the series, we again meet Inspector Alleyn, and his friend the journalist Nigel Bathgate.
The two men attend the theatre to see a play starring Bathgate's friend, Felix Gardener.
During the play, a gun is fired and Alleyn quickly realises that real bullets have been used instead of the usual blanks.
The dead actor, Arthur Surbonardier, appears to have been disliked by the others in the cast, so Alleyn must tread carefully to identify who is behind the killing.This has quite a convoluted plot, centring around how the blanks could be replaced with live bullets, and who was where during the key period.
No ha llegado a convencerme, me imagino que porque esperaba más. No he entendido bien el humor que destila. No me ha gustado como plantea la investigación y resuelve el caso. No me han gustado sus personajes. Me gusto más su anterior novela, Un hombre muerto.
Ha sido un libro clásico de los que perfectamente podría haber escrito Agatha Christie, con asesinato y búsqueda del asesino, sospechas de todos y cuesta deducir quién es el verdadero asesino, lo recomiendo!
3,75 Très sympa.
Well-acted (you see what I did there?) and ingenious!
