https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/95105.Oldest_Living_Confederate_Widow_Tells_All
Page after page she went on about orderlies or what soap opera is watched in her nursing home, with less attention to her memories and husband's stories than what felt necessary.
I kept finding myself wondering, "How many more pages about this?" I was continually leafing forward, looking to see how much more there would be to endure about some seemingly irrelevant subject.I suppose in the author's defense, I must say it is probably fairly accurate to portray the conversation as rambling and with more detail about the irrelevant than what is interesting.
Most of the conversations I've had with nursing home elderly are of that nature.
I realize that many reviews accuse it of being overly long, but it's called Oldest Living Confederate Widow Tells ALL, not Oldest Living Confederate Widow Tells A Story or Two. The novel is indeed seven-hundred and some pages long, but think of it as an opportunity for settling in and truly getting to know Mrs. Lucille Marsden.
The novel is a tribute to the way many women see their individual lives as inextricable from those relationships.
Her story is a tribute to everyone she ever loved.
This was just such a book, and once I cracked it open, it became impossible to put it down.
It was one of the most compelling and memorable books I have read in years and it has stayed with me all these years since I read it.
It is one of the most unforgettable books I have ever read and tells the story of a 15 year old girl, Lucy, who marries a 51 year old Confederate veteran, naively not knowing what she was getting herself into.
This is one amazing book, filled with the lyrical language of a Southern writer.
It's a strange way to tell a story, but it works.Because of the nature of Lucille's marriage it really stretches over a broad expanse of time, right from the pre-war days up until the 1980s.
And also because of Lucille's marriage, it makes you see that even though the war was over thirty years before she was born, she lived through it as much as her husband did, and came out the other side in a way that he never did.
While the Civil War battle scenes were very vivid and thrilling, most of the book was about growing up in the South with characters that would bore Tom Sawyer.
This is NOT about the Civil War. Supposedly told by a 100 year old woman to a writer.
She told her story of being married to a Confederate War veteran.(After the war).
Too much back & forth from the war to her present time.
It does show exactly what the war was like in 2 skirmishes.
The book repeats this same story many, many times because that is the book!
simple put, it was a crazy mixed up books with no plot.
There are better books than this available and I've read plenty.
Don't waste your time.
Quoting excerpts from this extraordinary book: "11 days after the fire comes the afternoon of leaving.
How strange the furnishings look resting out here, half under tarps.
A test for beautiful furniture: Does it still look beautiful in a beautiful woods?" Gurganus' descriptions are vivid, almost liquid!
When I don't know an author I just like to open a book I haven't yet read to some point & start reading there--to hear the writer's voice.
That's why I shared the above amazing excerpt; these are the spoken speech of slaves only just being freed..."Children coax canvas aside.
I onto your tricks!..." Excerpt p.
This is one of my all time favorite books.
I read it some years ago, but still have my copy.
This should definitely return to my "to read" list.
The narrator, Lucille (Lucy) Marsden, tells the story of her marriage to "Captain" Will Marsden, ostensibly the Civil War's last survivor, whom she married when she was 15 and he was 50.
She also tells about her husband's experiences in the war and after, the burning of her mother-in-law's plantation by Sherman's men, and the abduction from Africa of a former Marsden slave, midwife to Lucy's nine children as well as her best friend.
As a Northerner, at the time I read it, I was rather clueless about the Civil War and the South.
I'm mildly more clued-in these days, but this book helped open up a voice and an attitude for me that had not been there before.The writing is dramatic, to the point where I'm sure some readers found it too far over the top to deal with.
I have read the "scene" of the heroine's mother's childhood encounter with wasps many times and find it to be uniquely moving and epic in its nature.
This book was a huge best seller in the 80's when it came out but I can't see the appeal.Lucy married a 50 year old confederate war veteran when she was 15.
Reading this book.
I actually stopped reading and I thought, there was no way a woman wrote this because of the way the character spoke and the internal monologue thought process.
So I looked at the author, and sure enough, it was a man.
It comes across as an ill-informed man writing about the inner workings of the female mind.
Neither Lucy nor her husband are especially appealing characters, and I regret spending so much time with them.
I read Oldest Living Confederate Widow Tells All *once* years and years ago (maybe more than 20(?) years ago, now). I can't quite pinpoint exactly what impact this story had on me, but there are times that I *still* think about scenes from this book. Something about it just got into me and stayed put. And I tell you what, give me Lucy Marsden over that annoying Scarlett O'Hara any day.
This library book, besides being already one of the best books I've ever read, had a bonus: someone had saved some flowers in the pages, pressed and dried but still beautiful.
Now that I finally finished reading this book, I can unequivocally say it's the best book I've ever read, based on the quality of the writing, the story, the development of the characters, the insights into human behavior, including mine, the humor, the honesty, the fact that I could have kept on reading for another 700 pages.
I recommend this book with 100% certainty that you'll love it too.That being said, I'm glad I can start a new book.
Lucy Marsden, about to celebrate her 100th year of life, tells her story to an unnamed narrator from the bed of her nursing home, flashing back to her wedding at age 15 (circa 1900) to a Civil War vet in her small North Carolina town that's 30 years her senior, and of their life together.
More accurately, it's the story of a segment of that time, starting with her tomboy childhood about five years earlier and basically ending a decade later after she's had all of their nine children.The years from 1910 or so to her nursing home time are essentially glossed over, as are the identities and basically any mention of half of their children.
Does that count?The narrator, Lucille (Lucy) Marsden, tells the story of her marriage to "Captain" Will Marsden, the Civil War's last survivor, whom she married when she was 15 and he was 51!!
She also tells about her husband's experiences in the war, the burning of her mother-in-law's plantation by Sherman's men, and the abduction from Africa of a former Marsden slave, midwife to Lucy's nine children as well as her best friend.
I expected this book to be about the Civil War but most of it was actually about their every day life.
I loved this book so much that I ordered the DVD, but then I love stories about the 1800s.
Some of her insight brought me comfort just knowing that someone else walked down similar paths I have, and even worse.
Reading this book made me grateful that I live in a time of peace in our nation.
Grateful for the modern day comforts we enjoy.
I enjoyed the friendship Ms. Marsden and Castilia came to know.
I enjoyed the book so much that I missed it when it ended.
It was like saying good-bye to people I had come to know and love.
Officially, what I consider a tome, Gurganus' masterpiece, is one of the finest examples of historical fiction, and particularly the Civil War.Forget the dreadful made-for-television movie, forget 'Gone With The Wind'. There is a langorous chapter midway into the story that depicts Sherman's March to the sea, told by the plantation owners and slaves who watched the plumes of smoke from distant homes, knowing their lives would be burned out from under them very soon. The images evoked in this chapter still resonate with me.I've been a fan of Mr. Gurganus ever since.
I read this book years ago and found it one of the most poignant , funny and at times, achingly sad books I've ever read.The widow is delivering her recollections to an aide at her nursing home circa early 1970's I believe. She had been born some time after the Civil War but her much older husband had been a Confederate colonel. Her recollections stem from his experiences and her own post war memories. The horrors or the Civil War come alive and yet somehow,there were periods of laugh out loud humor.
It would have been better at half the length and with 70% fewer characters. It was hard to motivate to read it beyond page 400 or so. Many characters are discussed at various times but their stories are not closed. Stories within are told in no chronological order and it is often difficult to place the current story in the life of the narrator and in relation to other stories (did the baby die before or after the son was blinded?) Interesting voice for the narrator.
I tried really hard to finish this book. While the confederate widow herself was a very colorful character with quite a story to tell, the book was written like a elderly person rambling on and on and on, whether anyone was listening or not. The character bounced back and forth between the past and the present and the present didn't enhance the story at all. I think this story could have been written much better. It has the makings of a really good story. I gave up reading this book.
I have loaned this book to friends, all of whom couldn't finish it.Ellen Burstyn opened in a Broadway show of the same name, and it closed that night.I'm confused. This is a darn good read. And a beautiful first novel!What do I find fascinating about it? And why don't my friends share?
Wow I am constantly amazed at how much I dislike books I have a fond memory of enjoying decades ago.
I just can’t do this. The story is interesting enough, but the conversational way the story is told by one very old southern lady is too much to follow. May pick at it a little over time....
I read this ages ago. I still remember the mink farm and what the old man did! Now that's a powerful image.
While this book was beautifully written, it just goes on for far too long. It just goes and goes and goes into the story of this woman's life and her husband's life, and when narrator runs out of anything to talk about at around page 500 (after having stretched in for the last 100), she just keeps on going for another 200 pages. I've read Anna Karenina and War and Peace and those earned their length - this did not.
I had zero expectations for this book and overall I'd say it was a good read.
It wandered through about 100 years of southern history and told the story of, well, the widow to the oldest living Confederate soldier.
When the widow was 14 years old she was basically given to the ex-Confederate soldier for marriage.
The author told the story of many people, including the slaves who'd lived on the plantation of the ex-Confederate soldier.
Their stories were also incredibly difficult to read.
For example, the ex-Confederate soldier signed up to fight for the Confederacy when he was 13 years old.
Lucy pays the price (and reaps the rewards) of her husband's memories, her mother-in-law's tragic meeting with Sherman's forces, and a former slave's attachment to the family.The book covers such a long length of time...
we follow Lucy from childhood to near senility, but stop to flashback to her husband's childhood and war stories, and even her mother-in-law's childhood AND a slave's journey from Africa.
I can't imagine a better ending, since it makes you look at Lucy and her long life story in quite a different light.
I'm going to tell you the biggest drawbacks of this book right up front.
First - I had tried to read it several years ago and abandoned it.
I had to read past the obligatory 100 pages before it engaged me.
My copy was 875 pages long.
But this book had a way of not letting you seem to be making any progress.
And still be only one inch into the book.
And still be only one inch into the book.
The book has plenty of 5 star moments.
Which is a lot to ask of a book I grant you.
Several of my favorite novels, I have discovered, were written by people who had no business writing a novel like that.
This is one of them.Allan Gurganus managed to write a novel about the past hundred and fifty years in the deep south, in the voice of a woman, while keeping it sincere, engaging, realistic, and entertaining.
The characters feel real.
Even the people who only inhabit the book for a page.
This book takes an historical time and makes it a breathing place; if that distinction makes any sense.It's sad and funny and a little weird.
I feel bad reviewing this book because quite honestly I couldn't finish it.
I had listened with delight to an audio version (severely abridged to three hours) but the book was just too wordy.
Gurganus is a truly gifted writer, but this book could easily lose 500 pages, as there is just too much verbiage and the reader gets frustrated and bored.
The audio version allows you to enjoy the language, the convoluted storytelling, the weird horror of living with a traumatized ex-soldier for decades after the war, without having to wade through pages of descriptive prose and pointless philosophizing.
Wow.. What a tale.The south in all its pitiful glory, angst, grit and guts; It's protocol that lost the war-- a sense of lost gentility and ignorance. Just when you get to maybe like the heroine Lucy's husband, your faith is cut short.Through 9 children, and a longing to find something useful in herself, Lucy fails, and succeeds-- then fails and succeeds again.Never again will you look at a "romantic" southern mansion the same. It's not romantic, as I learned in this fabulously written novel.Loved it.
