https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/255640.Agnes_of_God
Summary: Sr. Agnes had a baby, and that baby was found dead in a trash can in her room.
Dr. Livingstone (I presume) has been charged with determining her mental state for trial.
or even the murder?Review: One of these days I'm going to write a book, a play, a haiku, on the back of a paper napkin, a beautiful work of art that doesn't treat nuns as if they're totally crazy.
Nuns = the sanest people I know.
Murder?
Convents are not nearly this exciting, and someone like Sr. Agnes would have never made it into a convent in the first place.
I read this book for a class I'm teaching. Very interesting from a psychology standpoint, incredibly sad from a personal standpoint. The characters are fascinating and the way their lives are intertwined make for a gut-wrenching read.
I like to think of it at the play that would be if Alan from Equus was a nun instead of a boy. It doesn't get into her head as much as I would have liked though.
First I gave it a 2 then changed my mind and gave it a one. Waste of time and very pointless. At least it didn't take long to read.
There are some gorgeous speeches in here, but I was not able to suspend my disbelief far enough to ever stop wanting to yell, "THIS IS NOT HOW HYPNOSIS WORKS. THIS IS NOT HOW PSYCHIATRY WORKS."
This play is compelling and very well-written, but it's almost too disturbing for me to recommend it. I read it back in college and was distraught for days, as I thought about it. As someone said, "Why are there so many weird books, plays, and movies about nuns?" After all, most nuns are NOT weird but are just doing their best to live by their faith and good works. So I'd give the play a 4 for the compelling writing style but just a 2 for its depiction of nuns and the Catholic church.
A moving play about a nun whose baby dies and the ensuing trauma for her, her mother superior and her court appointed psychiatrist. None of them will ever be the same. You can find a superb audio production on iTunes.
Read this play for drama class back in my sophomore year. Very powerful script. Three extremely well-written characters with depth and humanity. But remember: plays aren't meant to be read, they're meant to be performed for an audience, so go see the play or watch the 1985 movie.
Fantastic story with brilliantly developed characters used this for my GCSE exam and played Agnes who is an amazing character.
Disturbing, challenging, haunting-leaves you wondering for weeks...Not for those who avoid discomfort.
Eh, not for me.
2.5 stars.
To begin this review I will first explain that I would have given this four and a half if that was an option, this play deserved such a score.
This play was very different from most I've read, there is no stage direction mostly, and there are only three characters, who are almost always on stage together.
The theology and ideas in this play were brilliant, I do wish they were played out more, but it was strong and intelligent.
Each character were guilty and horrible by themselves, none were innocent.
I was worried it would be very “OMG NUNS GONE WILD” but it was a little more Mariette in Ecstasy than that, so I was pleased.
(If you haven’t read Mariette in Ecstasy, I totally recommend it.
It’s fantastic.) A young nun is found passed out in her room, having just given birth; a dead baby is in her wastebasket.
Agnes is sent to a psychiatrist to find out what truly happened; when the psychiatrist meets with the Mother Superior, she finds out that the Mother Superior thinks Agnes might be touched by God – and the psychiatrist is very devoutly (no pun intended) athiest.
Belief..."I believe these truths to be self-evident." Truth is a construct, a social construct of mutual, clashing beliefs.
This is at the heart of AGNES OF GOD: I believe I'm good.
But belief, as a flawed system of truth, of objective, quantifiable data, does not do justice to reality.
As Mother Miriam notes, "I'm interested in [the Church] as simplicity and peace." But data is far more than simple and peaceful.
THEN I'll leave her be." This conflict between Dr. Livingstone and Mother Miriam is a quintessential conflict, and it is quite expertly explored here within this play.
What an amazing concept: let's take an horrific event, the discovery of a dead baby inside a cloistered convent, possibly born to one of the nuns, and shroud it in the mystery of religious faith.
Was this a divine birth?
Was this a natural death, murder or divine intervention?
But what happens to heart-felt faith when the layers of our psyche are slowly peeled away like the skin of an onion?
Guarded fiercely by her Mother Superior and questioned by her court-appointed psychiatrist, we learn of Agnes the young novitiate accused of this heinous crime.
I remember watching the Jane Fonda, Meg Tilly film 20+ years ago and being troubled by many of the themes contained within.
It blecame one of those films that lodged in my subconscious, one that, even though I couldn't remember it fully, was always there as a this needs to be seen again sometime.I don't know why it came back to me resently as something I need to look at again but the thought that I have to revisit it was very strong.
Having said that I knew I wanted to revisit it in a new way and sought out the play to read.Really glad I did as it is a striking play.

I do not understand why Pope John Paul II would ban such a wonderful play that explores Catholic theology.
Pielmeier taught at American Catholic University and is well educated in theology.
He does not denigrate Catholic doctrine.
The play is about faith and how faith is kept or lost.
I still use excerpts from this play for monologues.
If you're offended by a nun strangling a baby with the umbilical cord and then throwing the baby in a trash can, the play is not for you.
However, that event is not the crux of the play.
Listened to the audiobook - saw the movie years ago.Sister Agnes is found with a dead baby in her convenant wastepaper basket.
She is being examined by a psychologist to determine not only her mental capacity, but to try and discover how this pregnancy could have happened in her secluded environment.
Agnes' childhood was difficult and unconventional before she came to the convenant at age 17 after her mother's death.
She truly believes God brought her the baby.
Agnes of God is a complex investigation of mental health, faith and the basics of science to prove how things happened.
I suggested this play be performed at my high school and everyone was on board. It was one of our best performances and it is one of my personal favorite plays. Playing Dr. Livingstone really taught me to be open minded about religion and spirituality and to open up concerns for others. This play has so much hidden inside of it. Time needs to be taken to disect it completely. Agnes' dreams can be carfully unraveled and Livingstone's past can be analized closely. I love the ending, especially. It is up to the reader to decide. <3
An excellent and disturbing play about a young nun and a psychiatrist, who meet under extreme circumstances. Difficult to talk about without revealing too much of the plot, which is best experienced as you go. Unlike a lot of plays, this one comes across very well to most readers (Shakespeare, for instance, is best SEEN, not just read). This one will really get to you. A skilled live performance will leave you with chills.
Why I Recommend Bumping This Up On Your TBR: It is thought-provoking (it questions faith!), it has a psychiatrist protagonist, it had 3 female protagonists whose storylines intersect, and the audiobook includes great acting.Why You Might Bump This Down On Your TBR: It's not the most unique story ever depicted, it's possibly triggering, and it does require a bit of thought once you're finished.
Very interesting look at science vs. faith. Three great roles for women. I think, like so many plays, some of the impact is lost in reading it, as opposed to seeing it. I've seen it performed and really loved it. I also love the movie version.
LIstened to the LA Theatre Works production, which I checked out from the Tucson Public Library. Although the playwright based this play on a true story, I felt that it did not stand the test of time.
A brilliant little gem of a play I have been wanting to read since the 1980s. Wow. It is Catholicism but it is more than Catholicism. It is about women and faith and God and miracles and belief. I look forward to watching the movie now.
I don't even remember when I read this. Somewhere in my teens. I wasn't impressed.
I love this play because it is extremely well written. The rhythm of the dialogue is amazing, and the characters have great depth. It was a wonderful time in my life to portray Agnes when I graduated from college.
A cloistered nun is discovered to have given birth--very similarly to "Plain Truth", this book follows the investigation into how the pregnancy could have occurred.
Great play with lots of drama, clever dialogue, great parts for women. Not a realistic portrayal of psychiatry, however.
