https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61672.Bonjour_tristesse
I'm Cécile.- Manny.- You as bored with this party as I am?- How bored are you?- Very.- I believe I'm enjoying it slightly more than you.
- Were you often this bored when you were my age?- How old are you?- Seventeen.- Um...
I think so.
- Category?- Something for a cynical girl who wants to be a famous author?- You've read Bonjour Tristesse?- Uh-uh.- It might inspire you.
Now I really must read it.
I'll find some other middle-aged man to seduce.
And I'll check out the book.- I enjoyed meeting you too.
Let me know what you think.- I will.
503. Bonjour Tristesse, Françoise Saganسلام بر غم - فرانسواز ساگان (هرم، فرخی) ادبیات فرانسه؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیست و پنجم ماه اکتبر سال 2008 میلادیعنوان: سلام بر غم؛ نویسنده: فرانسواز ساگان؛ مترجم: حسینقلی جواهری؛ تهران، فرخی، چاپ سوم 1350 ، در 164 ص؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، دنیای کتاب، 1396، در 178 ص؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان فرانسوی - قرن 20 ممترجم: فرزام حبیبی؛ تهران، هرم، 1385، در 164 ص؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، زاویه، 1395؛ مترجم: علی اصغر محمدزاده؛ تهران، مرجان، 1380، در 160 ص؛ شابک: 9647563043
«سلام بر غم»، نخستین رمان «فرانسواز ساگان» و یکی از معجزات نادر قرن بگذشته (قرن بیستم میلادی) است.
در سال 1954 میلادی دختری هجده ساله و نازپرورده؛ قلم به دست میگیرد؛ و مینگارد: «تردید دارم، نام غم را به این احساس غریب و زیبا، که درد لطیفش آزارم میدهد، بدهم.
تا روزی که پدر تصمیم میگیرد، با معشوقه ی خود «آنا»، که نسبتاً جدی و متعادل است، و امکان دارد این زندگی بی دغدغه را از بین ببرد، ازدواج کند.
«ساگان» در سال 1954 میلادی و در هجده سالگی با نوشتن همین داستان «سلام بر غم»، به جاودانگی رسید.
This is why I don't read books written by teenagers. Banal and melodramatic. A bored, spoiled 17-year old who has a bit of a crush on her playboy daddy hates her soon-to-be-stepmother. Cue never-ending angst, alcohol, scheming, glam life, underage sex, and boredom, boredom, boredom, and voila! - a bestseller and a classic.Please, somebody, get her to do some chores so that she doesn't stuff her head with rubbish!I am tired of such tripe being praised because of "but the author was only 17 when she wrote it!" excuse.
The French 17 year-old girl narrator is at once astute AND childish. The life of leisure that she leads is intoxicating, and her bohemian experiences and attitudes give the work a refreshing polish. This is somewhat of the opposite of "Catcher in the Rye" since Cecile is experienced, active, cool, while Holden Caulfield. has all the naivete of a newborn, is more of a spectator & is simply, when all is said & done, just duh-ull.
دوران راهنمایی بودم ؛دقیق یادم نیست کلاس دوم ،شاید هم سوم که می رفتم سراغ کتابخانه پدر و برادر هایم.
پدرم علیرغم تشویق همیشگی به مطالعه و کتابخوانی چندان خوش نداشت دوران مدرسه شبها تا دیروقت بیدار بمانم و مطالعه کنم.نگران وضعیت درسیم بود.برای همین کتابهایی که قطعشان کوچکتر بود را مخفیانه برمیداشتم و میگذاشتم لای کتاب درسی و به خیال خودم هم که هیچکس نمی فهمد که چه میکنم.
«سلام بر غم» جزو کتابهایی بود که قاچاقی خواندمش و اتفاقن خیلی هم چسبید!
خلاصه اینکه خواندنهای دزدکی آن دوران لذتی عجیب داشت.هنوز با دیدن نام این کتاب آن لذت برایم زنده می شود.
Blinded by her self-interests and unconscious jealousy of Anne for banishing her from being the apple of Raymond’s eye, Cécile starts plotting a plan with Cyril, his young and golden skinned summer lover, to recover her former bourgeoisie and unorthodox life with her father.
She replaced her original surname by a nom de plume taken from Proust’s character the Princesse de Sagan and her rebellious coming-of-age novel became both a huge success and a scandal for the underlying skepticism regarding conventional institutions like marriage and family as well as for the subtle hint of a disturbing incestuous nature of father-daughter relationship that impregnates the story.
It is natural that the 17 year old narrator acts like a teenager.
They simply blame the heat for all their stupidity.Let's meet these characters:Cecile: spoiled daughter of a rich dad.
Hey, Raymond, you have a daughter to look after, remember?Elsa: beautiful, fashionable, DUMB.Occupation: being a mistress to rich men.Cyril: 25 year old boy that Cecile finds attractive.
Look where it got her!****I spent the rest of the flight reading The Stranger which, like this one, featured French people who spent a lot of time on the beach and cursed the heat.
I found an old copy of this book on the floor of a bar and read it in the midst of a quarter life crisis (I was 24) and a rapidly dissolving summer love affair. I found it was the perfect voice for a story about the pivotal moment we all face when we realize our innocence has died. I could write a thousand reasons as to why I love this book, but they would do it no justice. My favorite book through and through. For anyone who dwells in premature nostalgia.
Ultimately the characters offer you very little to love about them - Cecile is naieve and manipulative, Anne is a control freak in a Chanel twin-piece and dear old daddy is an aging play boy with a slightly disturbing penchant for girls much closer to his daughters age than his own.Francoise Sagan wrote this book at the age of 18 then presumably sat down, lit a cigarette and pouted over how to spend the next 60 years given that she'd already written her great masterpiece which clearly extols her youthful genius.
Un roman particulièrement charmant. Je l'ai lu comme un enfant et je suis sûr que cela m'a fait susceptible au genre romantique.Q:My love of pleasure seems to be the only consistent side of my character. Is it because I have not read enough? (c)Q:La liberté de penser, et de mal penser et de penser peu, la liberté de choisir moi-même ma vie, de me choisir moi-même. Je ne peux dire dêtre moi-même, puisque je nétais rien quune pâte modelable, mais celle de refuser les moules. (c)Q:A Strange melanch
Je l'ai lu comme un enfant et je suis sûr que cela m'a fait susceptible au genre romantique.Q:My love of pleasure seems to be the only consistent side of my character.
(c)Q:A Strange melancholy pervades me to which I hesitate to give the grave and beautiful name of sorrow.
I have known boredom, regret, and occasionally remorse, but never sorrow.
(c)Q:Il arrive un âge où ils ne sont plus séduisants, ni «en forme», comme on dit.
Ils ne peuvent plus boire et ils pensent encore aux femmes; seulement ils sont obligés de les payer, d'accepter des quantités de petites compromissions pour échapper à leur solitude.
Ils sont bernés, malheureux.
"În fond, ce altceva urmărim dacă nu să plăcem? Nici astăzi nu știu dacă această înclinație spre cucerire ascunde un exces de vitalitate, o plăcere de a domina sau nevoia ascunsă, nemărturisită de autoliniștire, de autosusținere." "Nici astăzi nu mă pot obișnui cu mania pe care o au oamenii de a te privi fix când vorbesc cu tine sau de a veni foarte aproape ca să fie siguri că îi asculți."
Anne's presence provokes Cécile's jealousy and uspets the balance of her father's relationship with Elsa, leading our narrator to devise a deadly plan.The narrative captures the melodrama and insouciance of teenage years so well.
Perhaps this, too, is typical of the character/author's age: when you're 18, the stuff you did when you were 17 seems a million miles away.With a precocious teenage protagonist, over-privileged rich people swanning around doing whatever they want, and a 26-year-old man 'falling in love' with a girl who isn't even out of school, you'd think I would have absolutely hated this.
In six months I should no longer even want to."In another writer's hands, this story could have gone horribly wrong - Cecile has every opportunity to turn into a spoiled rich brat who can't stand the idea of being forced to behave like an adult with responsibilities, and the way she tries to destroy her father's happiness could be seen as the actions of a borderline-psychotic.
Every few chapters (sometimes every few pages) Cecile will have a moment of clarity, and realize that Anne is a good person and that her father is happy, and she regrets her meddling.
دوستانِ گرانقدر، این کتاب را <فرانسواز ساگان> زمانیکه 18 سال داشته است، به صورتِ خاطرات دختری نوشته است که <سسیل> نام داشته و پدر و مادرش از هم جدا شده اند و او با پدرش که مردی خوش گذران و زن باز است، زندگی میکندپدر <سسیل> برای تعطیلات تابستان، ویلایی در کنار ساحل اجاره میکند تا تابستان را در آنجا سپری کنندامّا پدر همراه خودش دوست دخترِ جوانش <الزا> را هم به آنجا میبرد و البته <سسیل> هم مشکلی با این موضوع و دوست دخترِ جذابِ پدرش نداردپس از چند روز <سسیل> با پس
‎دوستانِ گرانقدر، این کتاب را <فرانسواز ساگان> زمانیکه 18 سال داشته است، به صورتِ خاطرات دختری نوشته
On sait que les romans français sont les plus beaux des monde entier, n'est-ce pas ? Mais celui-ci n'était pas bon malheureusement
A seventeen year old girl and her father are stumbling through life after the death of her mother, his wife.
Well, let’s remember the title translates as “Hello Sadness.” (The book is translated from the French.) As I was reading this very short book (you can read its 127 pages in one sitting) I occasionally thought that it was a bit of stretch to believe that a seventeen-year-old girl could philosophize this deeply about love, life and men, and then I read that the author was nineteen when she wrote this book.
Written when Sagan was still a teenager it is the story of Cecile, a seventeen year old girl who lives with her amoral and dissolute father who has a different woman in tow every two months or so.
Cecile is 17, rich, spoilt and supposed to be studying for university over the summer.
Raymond, her father, widowed many years ago has a series of much younger lovers who each last a couple of months or so.
Cecile resents her and hatches a plan with unforeseen consequences.Most of the characters are immature; adolescent even and the only person who behaves like an adult in the book (Anne) is the centre of resentment.
A lovely pyschological gem that seems to perfectly depict what it was like to be smart, rich and seventeen years old in 1954. I particularly liked the delicate, exquisite, admirably honest rendering of Cecile's emotions, whether ugly or sweet. I was that age not so very long ago- it isn't hard to remember the truth in what she's saying here.Should be read in one sitting- with tea on an unhurried Sunday afternoon.
Sagan was barely eighteen when she published her first novel featuring a teenage girl flying away freely with love, physical intimacy, carelessness, promiscuity and other such immoral acts, on the pretext of her father's engagement with rather young mistresses.
This is not a joy ride to read this overripe account of a bored and very, very dull 17-year old teenage girl who is a rich, spoilt brat, but think again, this has been written by someone who is of same age as the protagonist, so you can't expect any literary creativity from the young author.
I had been friends with Emma-Agnes for a few years in school and decided to write a page-long summation of my feelings toward her, apologising for my inappropriate biological urges impeding on our friendship.
A few months later I wrote a second letter asking if we might go to lunch together, if that wasn’t too forward, and I would pay for her meal, if that wasn’t too sexist an attitude to take.
Emma-Agnes already had a boyfriend at this stage, and would fall pregnant a few months later, but she kept up her side of the agreement.
It doesn’t help that this story is recounted by her adult self and the tone she takes clearly lacks of any empathy towards the troublesome decisions she’s made in her younger years.Though Cécile’s unchecked attitude causes a lot of trouble in the story, the blame is to be equally placed with her father, Raymond.
This ties back in to how the adult Cécile is looking back on her younger years and still doesn’t seem to think much of how much her actions has cost others.Not a book meant for everyone but a satisfying read if you are comfortable with unlikable characters.
I think people were astonished first by the quality of the writing, and second by the level of insight the young writer had regarding serious adult relationships and situations.
It's the story of 17 year old Cecile and her playboy father Raymond (a widower), and their amoral view of life and love, as they lay waste to the emotions of everyone they come into contact with.
It's a tragic story really, but you can't help but smile at the precociousness of this young character.3.5 stars
Außerdem hatte ich nur wenige Tage zuvor ein anderes Buch über eine Vater-Tochter-Beziehung gelesen (Blood and Guts in High School), dass ich ganz schrecklich fand, sodass ich ein wenig Bedenken hatte, als ich mich an die Lektüre dieses Romans machte.Ich wurde jedoch sehr positiv überrascht.
Das Buch liest sich locker leicht und ist nicht zu Unrecht ein moderner Klassiker.
Manches ist ein wenig veraltet, wirkt aber gerade dadurch charmant, beispielsweise dass sich die meisten Charaktere siezen.
Insgesamt eine wunderbare Sommerlektüre, die aber dennoch ein bisschen philosophischen Tiefgang hat und deren Ende eigentlich so offensichtlich ist, dass man sich nachher wundert, wieso man es nicht vorhergesehen hat.
'Buenos días, tristeza' es de ese tipo de lecturas que comienzas sin expectativas, pero que te sorprenden gratamente. Es un libro corto, muy bien escrito y que te atrapa desde el primer momento.La historia de Cécile no te dejará indiferente; para bien o para mal.
The only difference, perhaps, is that while Francoise Sagan's heroine (or Sagan herself) showed a lot of promise and literary sophistication at such a young age (the beach, she's sunbathing, her lover approaches her, she hears his voice, but she could not speak because, as she magnificently says, she "was nailed to the sand by all the forces of summer"), her modern day versions could hardly write one complete paragraph without being objects of derision.A nice little pocketbook of only about a hundred pages.
If I read 30 pages a day, I'll finish all these in about 8 months.
"Mes jours comme mes nuits sont en tous points pareils, sans joies et pleins d'ennui..." Françoise Hardy's words are quite fitting when it comes to describing the languorous atmosphere of "Bonjour Tristesse", another Françoise's first novel.
F. Sagan is only eighteen when she writes about Cécile, seventeen, a pampered teenage Parisian living with a pampered young father, Raymond.
The sight of her father utterly spellbound by the prospect of growing up horrifies Cécile, whose feelings for Anne are painfully in contrast with her frivolous attitude toward life.
"Bonjour Tristesse" (the title comes from a poem by Paul Éluard) is still a scandalous book.
رمانی خوب و ساده بدون تکلف و کلمات سنگین بود که از زبانی کودکانه و بدون پختگی و پیچیدگی فلسفی و اول شخص مفرد بیان میشد.نویسنده زمان نوشتن داستان 18 سال داشته!!!
Far lesser tragedies -- and all too often, greater ones -- than the one led up to during the ritzy summer Mediterranean vacation described in Bonjour Tristesse occur constantly because people want to preserve a way of life or gain some advantage in love or power or materialism.In this book, the young, carefree protagonist, Cecile, fears the loss of a way of life, preferring it to the uncertainty of the future.
"Goodbye Sadness." I was drawn to the screen adaptation of this book years ago because of the title and I really enjoyed it.
I decided to read this book in French as it's not too long and therefore didn't seem too overwhelming to me.
The main character, 17 year old Cecile, was something else!
It was interesting to read Cecile's scheming thoughts, though you can't help but think what a spoiled brat she is.
I'm also thinking she had an Oedipus complex.
Well-written and very interesting.
I plan on reading the English version soon to see if I've missed anything.
Ала когато призори лежа будна в кревата, сама с шума на парижките коли, понякога паметта вероломно ме връща към лятото и всички спомени. ... Тогава нещо се надига в мен и затворила очи, аз го назовавам по име: Добър ден, Тъга.
