https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20549.Speeches_and_Writings_1832_1858

Even after reading the letters and speeches here and from later in his life, Lincoln remains inscrutable and aggravating.
When digging into his writing, I found it almost impossible to tell when to take him at face value, and when to try and read between the lines.
Even reading the old standards like the Gettysburg Address or the Cooper Union speech, I found myself just utterly mystified by what exactly he was or wasn't trying to say or imply.
It's weird to go back and read these sort of classically American texts and to just think about how disconcerting their ideas are, even when wrapped in such poetic language.
There are many reasons this book is a classic. Lincoln's own intelligence, style, humor, and tragic poetry are worth the read alone. In this first volume, Lincoln makes some of the best known arguments for the Whig party, against the Mexican War, and the crisis resulting from the Kansas-Nebraska Act. His writings after 1854 are pretty much a history book on that time period, giving a very clear and engaging picture of the slavery issue.
Lincoln is an interesting man to approach. Right now I'm using this volume as the way to read the Lincoln-Douglas debates, and it's an amazing snapshot of the country at the time. Also, Lincoln is an amazing writer, when he wants to be, as some of his letters and written speeches prove. This & the companion volume are perfect for my needs, as far as being able to sample large parts of Lincoln's writings.
Truly astonishing. The prevalence of racism is staggering. His simple assumption is that the slaves are obviously inferior and should be removed not so that they would be freed, but so that they would never end up mixing with any Americans stupid enough to marry them. Ouch.
The debates with Douglas are interesting, though repetitive and a bit modern-sounding in the twist each candidate puts on the other’s words. There are some noteworthy speeches. Some of the letters are interesting, particularly in showing early glimpses of Lincoln and of ordinary events in his life. There are many other letters included, however, that are not particularly illuminating.
As far as I'm concerned, this is not a book to "start" or "finish"; I read rather selectively, as I come across references to or quotes from Lincoln's early speeches and letters.
Reading the entire speech or letter is very well worth while rather than just depending on a memorable quote such as the one for "a house divided against itself".
Lincoln was an excellent writer, who worked hard on his speeches, and it shows.[return][return]This volume is a collection of speeches and letters from the 26 years before Lincoln became President, and clearly illuminates the evolution of his thinking as well as showing a core consistency in his philosophy.
This is a collection of Lincoln's speeches and letters.
The best way to get to know this man is through is own words.
I was impressed by how consistent he was in his views on slavery through the entire course of this political era.
From his first public statements on the slavery he said it was immoral and unjust, we can't remove it in the states where it exists, it shouldn't be allowed to spread into the territories, slavery should be put on the course of ultimate extinction.
What other politician do you know who never waivers in his political statements?
Assigned for Tony Wolk's Lincoln and Literature class, I have only got so far into this tome, but I aim to read it all before my life is over.
It's writings that Lincoln did throughout his life that have been documented.
Abraham Lincoln was most likely the best president this country will ever have so it's a good idea to read what he wrote.
He was even one of the best political leaders ever, kind of like The Beatles are one of the best bands ever...So you should check it out, see what he had to say.
I guess it sounds old hat to say how bright and clever and funny he was and reading his letters and speeches made those qualities and him real for me, and I feel like I got a glimpse of the time in which he lived. As one of the listeners called out during the Lincoln-Douglas debates, I could listen to him all day.
Certainly the President-Elect writes a good speech. Here now, a true master.
Superb! Clearly a political and economic genius. And an amazing war strategist whose counsel and direction should have been followed.
Where's his voice today? We need him.
While many of the letters etc. are not fascinating. Reading Lincoln's speeches in their entirety gives a fascinating picture of who Lincoln was and what he stood for.
Only read parts, but those were informative of the man
I read bits and pieces. I enjoyed his speech on the Mexican War.
