https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/913651.Marlborough
Wiki description: The serial presents the lives of John and Sarah Churchill from their meeting in 1673 until a time shortly before the first duke's death in 1722, and illustrates, along the way, much of the context of contemporary English politics.
The series is based on the Marlboroughs' famous descendant Winston Churchill's life of his ancestor the Duke, and as such presents a very favourable portrait of the Marlboroughs.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lizLU...
1/12 The Chaste Nymph 2/12 Bridals 3/12 Plot Counter-Plot 4/12 The Lion and the Unicorn 5/12 Rebellion https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CZebi...James II of England (James VII of Scotland) from 6 February 1685 until he was deposed in the Glorious Revolution of 1688.
He quickly became a senior officer, based on his skill and not his aristocratic background.The First Churchills-(Bridals)-Episode 2/12John Churchill pursues the young Sarah Jennings but she is convinced they can have no future together.
Sarah is poor, much as Churchill is, and her mother is convinced that Churchill's father will arrange a marriage for his son only with a rich woman.
Plot Counter-Plot -Episode 3/12John is promoted to Brigadier and much to Sarah's dismay, is off to Holland.
Throughout this second volume of Churchill’s biography, the life of the commander-in-chief of an alliance was not easy and many of Marlborough’s military plans were frustrated by the want of will by his allies, mainly the Dutch.
Yet Churchill savages those who did frustrate Marlborough’s planning through either over caution or plain envy.Marlborough: His Life and Times (Book One) gives an in-depth look at the second half of the 17th century and the early part of the War of Spanish Succession through the life of John Churchill, the first Duke of Marlborough.
Winston Churchill had something of a man-crush on his ancestor John Churchill, Duke of Marlborough.
Churchill avoided that, and with an enormous collection of the Marlborough's private correspondence attempts to tell the story of one of Great Britain's most illustrious military commanders, a man who humbled the greatest of France's kings while at the head of an inconsistent and fractious group of "allies".
Indeed, Churchill's partisanship is rather clear from the start, as he first describes why he felt that Marlborough's name and career required rehabilitation in the first place.Despite this, Churchill's prose is as lyrical and well-crafted as anything else the man wrote or said, and few moment's of Marlborough's life are unaccounted for.
In a burst of enthusiasm while younger, I read all 2000+ page (4 volumes) of this work in a week, while fulfilling family duties by going on holidays with my parents. The fact that I could do that, and the books still stick in my mind, gives an idea of the force of the work.
The trait is consistent from "History of the English-Speaking Peope" to the last volume of "The Second World War".
Duke of Marlborough is clearly the Churchill's childhood hero, a knight in shining armor, and as such cannot do wrong.
Betrayal of King James, to whom Duke owned so much, desertion, attempt to betray William to James, for everything Churchill managed to find excuses and explanations.
Although it was sometimes annoying, I still think the book is great, and history in Churchill's words, as always, is so much alive and interesting.
The book is well worth the effort.
Rightly considered one of the best biographies and histories of the 20th century, Winston Churchill's work on his illustrious ancestor is not only an in-depth and infinitely wise look back on the early modern era in Europe in general and England in particular, it is also a great pleasure to read, thanks to Churchill's unsurpassed prose.
Not an easy or light read at 1000 pages of text per book, it will reward the patient and diligent reader with the skillfully illustrated career of this remarkable soldier, put tirelessly into the political, diplomatic and military contexts in which he worked.
Biased to a fault, but with charming eloquence and passion for the subject.
The fifth star must be subtracted for the wear and tear of time, while recognising that that there was good reason for giving the quintessential warrior-author the Nobel Prize for Litterature rather than Peace.
This first volume sets the scene for Marlborough's primary achievements during the War of The Spanish Succesion and viewed from a distance of 70+ years spends an in-proportionate amount of pages in (unsuccesfully) white washing its hero from all suspicion of being an avaricious opportunist - like most of his contemporaries in Restoration and Jacobite England.
Interesting, not only for the subject, but also for the glorious prose, Sir Winston's voice echoes in every sentence.
BrilliantSometimes you can almost see and hear him speak as you read what a pleasure it must have been to listen to his oratory live
(I had originally treated these as two books, but this combination fits with more editions.) The work begins with the initial period of Marlborough's life up to the death of King William and the ascendancy of Queen Anne.
These volumes are difficult to find in a set and I have always enjoyed reading Churchill, especially his history - although if I recall he won in Nobel Prize for literature.As a history, this book is hugely informative about the Glorious Revolution and the political situation in England up through the reigns of William and Mary and Queen Anne.
Sometimes it is clear Churchill wrote this for a British audience, who would know who the other major players were without a scorecard; I neded some wikipedia backup to be clear about who was who among some of the British political figures.Of course, Winston is going to defend his great-great (great-great?) grandfather very strongly.
The praise he heaps on his ancestor is very calculated to make you admire him, despite some, um, dodgy dealings in the course of his life ("Hey, it was only prudent to play both ends against the middle in such turbulent times....and besides, everyone was doing it").
Winston Churchill, in a relatively well-known bad patch during the 1930s, began to write this history of his famous and much maligned ancestor.
However, I would add that in the writing of this book, Winston Churchill prepared himself to become even greater than his general ancestor.
It can hardly be surprising that as this history was being written, events were conspiring to lead Winston Churchill into the biggest world confrontation ever.
The history is written from the point of view of a defender, though Winston Churchill is careful not to gloss over details that might cast an unfavorable opinion of his ancestor.
The description of Marlborough's campaigns and battles during the War of the Spanish Succession is amazing and vivid.
Here was a true military genius about whom Churchill wrote:"He commanded the armies of Europe against France for ten campaigns.
The fought four great battles and many important actions.
It is the common boast of his champions that he never fought a battle that he did not win, nor besieged a fortress he did not take.
Even when fighting in fetters and hobbles, swayed and oppressed by influences which were wholly outside the military situation, he was able to produce the same result, varying only in degree.
Overall a very good start to what looks like it will be a very entertaining and informative volume of books.
Clearly Churchill has a lot invested in setting the historical record straight with regards to his illustrious ancestor.
But when Churchill gets back into his wheelhouse of describing political machinations and military manoeuvres the book moves along at a cracking pace, with some of Churchill's best writing.
Beyond that, he does an excellent job of getting to the meat of who John Churchill was and why.
My personal favourite was the chapter dedicated to exploring the impression that he was a cheap bastard.Looking forward to the remaining three volumes.
Truth is generally more interesting than fiction - at least to me - but the incredible era described so completely in this telling is almost embarrassingly rich with romantic characters and big doin's.
Churchill is also, I'm happy to say, a truly generous historian: both to his subject and his reader.
And, anyway, it's been humbling but ultimately good to a) have to look up the where's and when's and what's of this time I previously knew next to nothing about, and b) have to reach for a dictionary for the first time in years.
I guess it's good to feel stupid again?
Arguably the greatest biography of the 20th century in the English language & it totally delivers.
A superbly written book about a simply AMAZING life.
Even so, you get a gripping view of the person, a great appreciation of the seemingly impossible challenges John Churchill surmounts and feel the searing shame of a people who kicked Britain's greatest military hero to the curb instead of holding him up in honor (not unlike what happens to Winston himself later in life).
A fabulous biography of one of the most underappreciated men in all of history.
I am reading all four volumes and will do review as a whole after volume IV.Well I have finally finished the 2,000 + pages and certainly enjoyed the portions about his times and the undisputed facts about John Churchill's deeds.
There is a lot of very interesting history here.Much of what Churchill writes about his famous ancestor is speculative, however, especially about the many criticisms of Marlborough that had been written by historians and biographers during the 19th century.
I sort of regarded it as a kind of historical novel, and enjoyed it as such.There is no dispute that Marlborough was an exceptional man, rising from birth in the lower gentry to the rank of Duke.
I really enjoyed this work. The writing is good and gives a great insight into the politics of late-Stuart Britain. One of Churchill's main aims is to challenge Thomas B. Macaulay views of John Churchill in his "History of England"- no small feat. He strives to vindicate his ancestor and his argument is acceptable. This is probably my favorite work by Winston- a true work of academic history and a great biography.
I found a second edition version of both volume I and volume II and devoured them. Churchill was an extraordinary writer - his style really was maganificent. And he showed it here early in his career as he extols the fabulous military career of his ancester, the Duke of Marlborough. It was an era of English history I knew little about but which was pivotal to the further rise of the British Empire.
A great life and times, though of course he favors his ancestor. But the two chapters on Marlborough and Sarah's courtship, based on their letters, are terrific--even astounding, considering that she was 17.
I cant find this. If you can, its supposed to be the best bio of the 20th century! Of course its huge
A challenge to read, but how well written! Plus; A time period which I thought of as boring proved to be interesting, too
