https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/917909.Katy_No_Pocket
Hehe, I love this book! I just finished reading it to my younger siblings! Although it's not realistic that Katy doesn't have any pocket, it's a funny story! Reading it in silly voices is great too! ;)
Once, a long time ago, my father gave me a copy of this book. It’s a story of a mother kangaroo that doesn’t have a pocket to carry her joey with. So, she went on about searching for a way.There’s a very good lesson in a story if it had stayed with you even years have gone by. That is why I so love this book. It’s a story about coping with disability, never giving up, and how a grain of generosity may give a pocketful of possibilities for others.Find a copy for your kids today.Same thoughts here
Once, a long time ago, my father gave me a copy of this book. It’s a story of a mother kangaroo that doesn’t have a pocket to carry her joey with. So, she went on about searching for a way.There’s a very good lesson in a story if it had stayed with you even years have gone by. That is why I so love this book. It’s a story about coping with disability, never giving up, and how a grain of generosity may give a pocketful of possibilities for others.Find a copy for your kids today.Same thoughts here
I just have to put this on here, because this was my absolute favorite book when I was a little girl. I must have checked it out from the library 20 times.
I feel like there are a lot of little things that I could take exception to with this book.
I think the idea of a pocketless kangaroo is interesting.
And I think the solution to her problem is funny too.
H.A. Rey's illustrations also really help the story which I think could have been pretty sappy with a different illustrator.
I think it's important for publishers to have a sense of play with all aspects of the book from type to end-papers.
It makes for a more nuanced book and I think those are the ones that endure.
Thankfully my mother has not thrown this book away. Now that I have a niece and nephews it is fun to pull out when we go back to visit the grandparents. Who can say why I enjoyed this book so much as a child--perhaps it appealed to that strong motherhood force that resides in most women from birth or a child feeling protected by his/her mother. I would recommend it to anyone. The illustrations are still strong in my memory.
I liked it because she had so many pockets.
The girls actually quite enjoyed this one. An older picture book with surprisingly poor grammar! It made me chuckle. But the story about a kangaroo without a pocket was cute.
Katy cannot carry her son, Freddy, and it causes her great stress!
So, she's takes off to see how other mother's take care of their young, wondering if she could carry her son that way.
All these ways are not something that Katy could do, so she asks the wise owl who says simply, "get some pockets!" Off Katy heads to find those pockets, off to the city!
He gives Katy his apron, and with Freddy safely in a pocket, she hops home where Freddy's friends want a ride too!5 stars because of the idea that Katy never quit on her problem.

Fun story about a kangaroo with no pocket in which to carry her baby. Ok, unrealistic, but ignore that and enjoy the rest of it! It's a sweet story about family, overcoming disability, the kindness of others, and how even just a kind word can help another. It's a little long for my preschool story time, but if I summarize some of the pages, the kids stay engaged and learn about ingenuity, perseverance, and compassion.
I grew up reading this book and couldn't wait to give a copy to my own kids! This story teaches perseverance even through difficulty as Katy is sad she has no pocket to carry her son in but tries to figure out how to accomplish the task in another way. You also learn about other animals and how the mama and baby stick together when the baby is young. Katy finds help in an unexpected place and finally gets her pocket!
Ages: 4 - 8Cleanliness: a man smokes a pipe. "For goodness' sake" is said.**Like my reviews? I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too. These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't. I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website!
This is a pretty old book, so I'll forgive its grammatical errors (as they were not errors at the time). Pretty mediocre overall, however. I find books where animals who are predators/prey get along to be very strange for children, as it gives them a very sugar coated view of how animals interact.
I loved this book as a child, and I love it now. It is a great story.
Another gem from my childhood.
ATOS 3.7
My mom read this to me. I loved it so much I made a puppet with paperplates that I named Katy No Pockets.
Pleasant read for younger kids.
I loved this book when I was little! I had completely forgot about it! 💗
When Katy the kangaroo needs a pocket, where will she find it?
Obviously the irritable owl was my favorite part :)
Average but good children's book. Who knows why kids love this book so much, but they do!
As a kid, I always thought the solution to Katy's pocket troubles was fantastic! What a lucky kangaroo!
This book is older than I am!
It's aged wonderfully and is still a fun read.
I remember reading it to Ellen and we both enjoyed it.
A kangaroo would not ask a lion for advice because they don't live in the same place!
It's a good story no matter what animals are featured.
As the title implies, Katy is a kangaroo without a pocket.
She can't carry her baby,Freddy.
After shedding many tears, she asks other animals how they carry their babies.
A bit wordy for the very young, but a fun book for pre-schoolers and the lower grades.
My love of reading started when i was young, and it gives me immense pleasure to provide books to Spread the Word Nevada, an organization that passes them on to children in the community.
Sometimes I'll find a book I remember reading when I was young and will read it again before passing it on.I don't rate these books using my normal scale, instead I give most of them three stars.
This isn't a Criticism of the book, simply my way of rating them as good for children.
This is a story about a kangaroo who needs to find a way to carry her joey.
etc.It's not a bad book, per se...
it's just that I find it really weird that the animals listed here are not found together in nature.
It's one thing to have predators speaking to prey, that happens in picture books all the time, but to have African animals talking to Australian animals, and to have Woodland animals conversing with Savannah animals?
It's a little weird, is all.And the book is a bit wordy, a bit too long for the story it's telling.
Este libro es sobre un canguro llamado Katy que no tiene una bolsa.
El mono dice en sus brazos, el cocodrilo, dice sobre su espalda, el león dice que la forma en que los leones lo hacen, el pájaro dice que la manera de los pájaros que finalmente Katy va a la ciudad y un buen trabajador de la construcción.
A continuación, Fredy, Katy bebé, lúpulo y vuelvan a casa.
Katy ha bolsas muchos que whe decide dar a otros animales bebé un paseo, también.
Katy es la canguro con la mayoría de las bolsas.
Katy Kangaroo struggles to find a way to carry her child since she has no pocket. Other animals in her community try to help, but it is not until Katy makes a trip to the city that she finds what she is looking for. The straightforward plot and simple illustrations (easily recognized as the work of illustrator H. A. Rey by fans of Curious George stories) allow young readers to follow and understand this story of compassion and sharing. Important life lessons are demonstrated but not preached in this timeless picture book.
Cute book about a kangaroo with no pocket.Great to open up talk about Charity (the workman gives Katy the apron off his back, the owl helps her out of concern for her sadness) and the idea that sometimes things that seem bad (Katy had no pocket to carry her baby) can become the catalyst for good (Katy gets an apron with many pockets and she is able to carry many other animals when they need help).And, of course every child will recognize the illustrations of H. A. Rey, Curious George's creator.
This was an adorable story of a kangaroo that didn't have a pocket to carry her baby in.
So she goes and asks other animals how they carry their babies.
Finally she goes to the wise owl he tells her to go to the city and get a pocket.
She does find a man who has lots of pockets, and she is finally able to carry not only her baby but other babies in the forest too!
This book is a little longer than most 'child' books so you may have to read half of it first then the rest another time to a child that may not sit and listen that long.
