https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/833228.Anansi_the_Spider
I don't like spiders. I like it when the spider gets eaten by the fish.Added at age 6: i likt this book because ol the spiders hafe pawrs!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
“Anansi the Spider: A Tale from the Ashanti” may have a confusing sentence structure that younger children might not understand, but it is still a great book for people who are fans of Anansi the Spider.Gerald McDermott has done a brilliant job at both illustrating and writing this story of Anansi and his sons.
Parents might want to discuss sentence structures to their children before they read them this book so that children would not be easily confused by the story.“Anansi the Spider: A Tale from the Ashanti” is a great story about the importance of family and children who love reading folktales about Anansi will easily love this book.
These stories have and continue to provide a moral foundation for the community in which these tales have originated.Anansi is a spider, but in many tales he is recognised as a creature who is half man and half spider; his most distinct quality is that of a trickster.
But Anansi’ adventures and situations also teach the readers a lesson in morals; ‘Tricksters will themselves be duped and humbled by another’ which happens in ‘Anansi and the Yam Hills’, whereby Anansi is tricked by the polite Mrs. Guinea Fowl.
Anansi is a figure from Ashanti folk religion.
He is the Ashanti trickster god (think Loki in Norse mythology and Son-Goku in Chinese folk religion).This is one of those mainstay books of my early school years.
Though Anansi is usually the antagonist/trickster mentor in Ashanti folklore, here he is the protagonist in conflict.
After stumbling in to a harrowing conflict while journeying, he is rescued by his sons.
I have also found something I rarely find nowadays: the original animated video that went with this book.
Luckily some has uploaded the original video (created by the books author, no less) to YouTube.
This delightful version of Anansi the spider comes from the Ashanti, a tribe of Ghana, and explains why the moon is in the sky. The story definitely has a very different rhythm than typical Western tales, with each of Anansi's sons playing integral roles in rescuing their father from peril. Perhaps the best thing about this book is the extraordinary collection of illustrations found within--with sharp edges and heavily-contrasted colors, each conjures playfulness and awe. Definitely a fun read for the younger set and a way to introduce students to the literature of Africa.
This vividly illustrated book was a 1973 Caldecott Award winner that I have read time and time again.
This folktale told of Anansi, his six sons (See Trouble, Road Builder, Game Skinner, River Drinker, Stone Thrower and Cushion and exactly how the moon came to exist in the world.
Although creatively told, remember Anansi as he was a true trickster so don't be fooled by his humanized ways and memorable wit!
Although this book was once recommended for children Pre-K though grades 1 & 2, I recommend it for all ages including adults if you're young at heart.
Beautiful retelling of this important legend. Will teach the importance of working as a team to young children.
In the book, Anansi, a spider with human like qualities, begins by naming each of his sons according to a specific ability each son possesses.
His sons use their unique abilities in different ways to help rescue Anansi.
Upon being rescued, Anansi proclaims he is going to reward the son who rescued him with a beautiful white light.
However, the spider family argues, and the God of All Things is displeased by this and decided to put the light up in the sky forever.
Teachers can also use the story as a way to explain to students that each individual has unique abilities that they can use in special ways.
If you work with elementary students in the early grades, you know they're always asking, "Why?
These sons later work together to help Anansi when he falls into a river after finding a bright ball on a trip.
This book is a great folktale to use in the classroom because aside from using it to explain to the students how the sun came to be, it's a book rich in culture and in meaning.
Not only do the students get exposed to a different culture, but they also see the universal theme of family in this story.
This book is about a spider who has a human life personality and has six sons.
All the other sons use their individual ability to help their father and the family ends up happy and safe.
I will give this book four stars out of five because I think that overall this children’s folklore book has great meaning to it, in that family should always be there for each other and work together.
If these sons did not work together the story would not end in the same happy way it did.
This book brings to life a folk-tale from the Ashanti people of Ghana, Africa.
The word choice and phrasing makes the book sound as if it was being told by one of the Ashanti people, but it is in fact authored by a white man from Detroit.
While I believe this is partially a product of the time period, Anansi the Spider was first published in 1972, I still find it somewhat bothersome because there a so few children's books by authors of color, even fewer award winning children's books.
The author referred to real-world artwork done by the Ashanti people to compose the illustrations.
Anasi the spider is a beautiful tale from the Ashanti people.
This book written by Gerald McDermott is intended for preschool and school age children.
It is a picture book and a folklore.
The story is about a spider who has six sons.
All of the sons were named after the gift the had.
One day Anansi went out and got into some trouble.
See trouble knew this and all the sons used their skilled to help their father.
After helping him, Anansi Find a beautiful white light.
The illustrations in the book are different and creative.
Overall it is a wonderful book.
The story is about a spider who has six sons, each with a special talent.
He ends up getting into danger in more ways than one and each of his sons use their talents to save him in some way.
This book could be used in Kindergarten through 3rd grade to learn about folklore and how folklore was used to explain occurrences in nature.
This book could also be used to help students retell a story since it has clear events that are easy to understand.
You could also tie this book into a social studies lessons if you are learning about other cultures and traditions.
We have a little obsession with spiders at my house these days, and after reading several different reference books about spiders that the kids keep bringing home from the library, I picked out this one to read together.
The kids instantly recognized that Anansi the Spider is written by the same author who created a book we own called Raven: A Trickster Tale from the Pacific Northwest.
They were so intrigued by the sons of Anansi, and how each of them had a special talent or power.
When Anansi fell into trouble, the kids tried to anticipate which of his sons would be able to help him.
I really, really liked the bright, bold geometric illustrations in this book.
It feels like the inspiration to a really great art lesson...perhaps designing other African animals using geometric shapes or maybe something with block printing.
(There are some art projects I saw online withAnansi but none that are quite what I was hoping for...may have to play around with this.)Fun porquoi tale of the Ashanti people explaining how the moon came to be in the sky.
It includes a brief prologue much like an author's note that explains the origin of the story (but not how McDermott came to know the story, how he researched it, etc.)
Anansi The Spider is an african folklore story from the Ashanti tribe from west africa.
Anansi the spider of the ashanti people had six sons.
The story goes on as Anansi goes far away from home and gets in trouble and his six sons go to the rescue to help out.
Anansi the spider and his six sons ran into more trouble trying to get home but they look for each other.
In the end Anansi and his sons get home safe.
While Anansi had difficulty giving his sons the prize of a light globe.
First off, the illustrations in this book are great! They are simple lines and shapes but seem so intricate and bright. The story is Anansi the spider and his six sons who all have a special talent. Each son helps their father in a difficult situation... the father cannot decide who is more deserving for a gift so he asks the all knowing spider who gives them the light in the sky (the moon). I like this story because it teaches the importance of helping and sticking by your family.
Don't have the words to express to you how deeply my students love this book. The art is unusual and appealing, the words are well chosen and beautiful in their spareness and the kids seem to love play-acting the characters. I wish I had a nickel for every argument that has broken out over which child gets to be 'Stone Thrower!'Highly recommended!
This story does a great job of depicting and bringing old folklore to life in a way that kids would understand.
A lot of folklore lives today because of its' success in passing it on through other people, and this story was successful in making it understandable and readable for all ages.
Although I think this folktale was interpreted the best way without losing any of its intentions, the end may seem a little confusing to children for its' abruptness and the lack of a distinct explanation of what Anansi decides to do with the moon; Anansi and Nyame are described as arguing over which son to give the moon to, but in the end, they just leave it in the sky.
Text-to-Teaching ConnectionAnansi the Spider: A Tale from the Ashanti is an African folklore about a daddy spider who wanders off and finds himself in a dangerous situation.
This book is full of patterns that emulate those found within the African culture.
I would use this book to teach my students about patterns and types of lines by providing various art material to create their African spider.
The students will also be encouraged to name their spider and select a character trait that best fits their spider.
Finally, each student will create an opinion writing explaining why they think their spider fits their selected character trait.
Bold, striking and memorable illustrations!
To say that this casts a cloud of speculation about the depth and the breadth of his research of the other cultures represented in his picture books is, perhaps, a given.'Anansi the Spider:A Tale from the Ashanti' was Gerald McDermott's first published book and by all accounts, a run away success.
Anansi is a spider- a clever and rogue trickster from the oral storytelling tradition of the Ashanti people of Ghana in West Africa.
The bold colors and almost stark geometric patterns of the illustrations in this book were influenced and inspired by the metal work and fabric art of the Ashanti.
Dealing with six different personalities, strengths and ideas, how can you choose who will be the most deserving.
Well for Anansi, an Ashanti King Spider, he had just this problem.
One day their father Anansi found himself captured by a fish and a bird.
With the help from the Ashanti God, he made the decision for Anansi and shared it with everyone.
The moral of the story is not to make a difference by choosing one person, spider in this case, but to cherish and reward them all.
"Anansi the Spider" has been awarded the 'Caldecott' award for its picturist creativity.
Well, of course, one of the stories told was an Anansi tale.
The librarian had put a selection of related books on a table in the back for children to borrow after the event, and we picked this one up.
It was quite different from the Anansi books by Eric A.
We liked the bright colors and the simple, but powerful story.
Our girls even decided to borrow the kit with the book accompanied by an audiocassette (narrated by John J.
Once again, it was very good, but our favorite Anansi voice is Jerry Terheyden.
We enjoyed reading this book together.
Anansi the Spider is an older book that won the Caldecott Honor in 1963.
The story features the main character Anansi, a spider with human qualities.
" And so they tried to decide which son deserved the prize.
Later, Anansi finds a beautiful light in the forest and decides to give the prize to the son who saved him.
The illustrations in Anansi are very tribal, with many intricate patterns.
The lesson that McDermott teaches is very significant.
He teaches readers that while we are all different we all have something special to contribute.
Anansi the Spider is a very entertaining and positive book!
The folktale is an important part of the oral tradition from West Africa.
While this story is in the format of a picture book, it could also be used in various classroom settings.
It could also be used to compare with American folktales to get a sense of a cross-cultural experience.
The story of Anansi was creatively written in dialect, so the reader gets the idea that this is not an American folktale.
The strong lines of the spider drawings give the reader a sense of importance.
Younger children would enjoy this as a basic folktale, while older students could use this to introduce oral traditions.
McDermott won the Caldecott Honor Medal for this Anansi the Spider book.
I have read others and of course each is different since the Ashanti use Anansi to tell many stories and lessons.
I would use this story with 4 year olds to ask why it was so hard to pick a son, what was the importance of each sons role in helping Anansi come back home safely.
And as always it is just a good quick book to read for fun with your child (I feel this is more important then trying to find a lesson to teach with the story).
In this story from the Ashanti, Anansi the Spider has 6 sons who help him get out of dire trouble. He is so grateful that he asks God to give a moon to the most helpful son, but he and his sons can not decide who should get it. Finally, God decides to put the moon in the sky, so all can enjoy it forever.A short yet engaging tale that is good for a read aloud and also would be a fantastic mentor text to use when teaching students to write traditional literature.
The art is kind of cool and very different. I liked the story itself, but the telling felt rough, especially the ending. With an ending that was rushed and almost felt tacked in. I liked the time and care given on the journey to rescue Anansi, but I wish very much that the same could be said of the last half dozen pages.
This book wasn't so great, but the discovery of it was. I cannot fully describe the joy I felt when I saw one of my formerly reluctant readers RUNNING up to me at the library saying, "LOOK, Miz Houghton! It's an Anansi book we haven't read yet! And I think it's by the guy who did Arrow to the Sun!" Priceless.
