https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17231.Darkly_Dreaming_Dexter
I recall seeing someone else comment that Darkly Dreaming Dexter needs to "show, don't tell." Dexter's interior monologue *tells* the reader about his code, and how careful he is, yet with one exception he's clumsy and messy throughout the book.
Any actual plot development happens at the very beginning and very end of the book, with the intervening chapters basically being nothing but red herrings and Dexter watching police be stupid.
(A-) 82% | Very GoodNotes: An economical, almost skeleton series introduction: claustrophobic and bustling, it limits facts to plot and never lags.
So Highly Helpful Harry steers his son on a course that he hopes will keep him from a lifetime of incarceration.Fast forward to present day and Disturbingly Damaged Dexter has learned well.
Killing makes me feel good.I enjoy my work; sorry if that bothers you.
Then what would I do for a hobby?" page 43 Harry camping with 14 year old Dexter "'You're different, Dexter,' he says."It's going to make you want to kill.
And in my sleep I had been riding with him, a phantom remora." page 170 Dexter narrates 'While the coffee brewed, I checked for the newspaper, more out of hope than expectation.
page 173 Dexter narrates "Another beautiful Miami day.
Now, if you put something like that in a fantasy/superhero/sci-fi sort of setting I can tolerate quite a bit more - although graphic descriptions of innocent people getting hurt are still reallllly hard for me.Blessedly, despite the fact that the book centers around a serial killer killing people and trying to (maybe) catch another serial killer, there's not much in the way of torture.
So...I'm not sure if fans of the show will like the book more, but I thought it was a pretty cool story.
Darkly dreaming Dexter (Dexter, #1), c2004, Jeff LindsayDarkly Dreaming Dexter is a 2004 novel by Jeff Lindsay, the first in his series about serial killer Dexter Morgan. It formed the basis of the Showtime television series Dexter and won the 2005 Dilys Award and the 2007 Book to TV award.عنوانها: تاریک رویاهای دکستر؛ دکستر قاتل خوابگرد؛ نویسنده: جف لیندزی (جفری پی. لینزی)؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز دوم ماه اکتبر سال 2016 میلادیعنوان: تاریک رویاهای دکستر جلد 1؛ نویسنده: جف لیندزی (جفری پی. لینزی)
It formed the basis of the Showtime television series Dexter and won the 2005 Dilys Award and the 2007 Book to TV award.‏عنوانها: تاریک رویاهای دکستر؛ دکستر قاتل خوابگرد؛ نویسنده: جف لیندزی (جفری پی.
لینزی)؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز دوم ماه اکتبر سال 2016 میلادیعنوان: تاریک رویاهای دکستر جلد 1؛ نویسنده: جف لیندزی (جفری پی.
لینزی)؛ مترجم: رضا جهان آبادی؛ رضا محمدیان؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، منتشران اندیشه، 1393، در 285 ص، فروست: مجموعه رمان های دکستر، شابک: 9786009430697؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 21 معنوان: دکستر قاتل خوابگرد جلد 1؛ نویسنده: جف لیندسی (جفری پی.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ I am now so far behind in reviewing that all of my read-but-not-yet-reviewed selections can't fit on my home page. Bonus this go 'round is somehow I didn’t even manage to mark this one down as something I was reading at all (#failure). But wait, you ain’t seen NUTTIN’ yet. Not only have I never read Dexter, but I have never seen an episode of the highly acclaimed television series either . . . .  Yeah yeah yeah . . . .  Since I am so
Not only have I never read Dexter, but I have never seen an episode of the highly acclaimed television series either .
Instead, it will probably read like a love letter to my Darling, Dreamy Dexter .
In case you too have recently emerged from cave dwelling and now mingle with the masses, the story here is of Dexter Morgan.
You see, a superbadawful happened to Dexter when he was a wee little boy.
When the Morgan family took lil’ Dex in as a foster child, pops Harry realized pretty early on that there was something off about the boy .
This led to me being a bit hesitant to read the novels because I was worried about a serious case of disappointment.
Hall's portrayal of the title character is such an integral part of my enjoyment of the series that approached this book with trepidation, worried I wouldn't relate* as well to the novel's main character.* a dangerous thought, I know, given Dexter's proclivities.
The characterization of Dexter was excellent and I found myself engaged by him from the outset.
The novel tracks the first series of the show closely and in many way it was like re-watching the first season with some nice additional details added.
In sum, an excellent read.
Before Harry Morgan -Dexter's foster father- died, he taught his son to only kill people who have gotten away with murder as a way to channel his homicidal urges.Dexter manages his double life without incident until The "Tamiami Slasher" starts murdering prostitutes in the Miami area.
He feels a connection to this killer, and this connection could be his undoing.I read DARKLY DREAMING DEXTER before the TV series started, and thought it was quite a refreshing and new take on the whole serial killer theme based novel.
Getting in mind of Dexter is never boring his insight is funny and his technique of killing is masterful.Dexter talks of his beginnings, of his first kill, the day his dark passenger became the rider. Recollections of the past with his father Harry and his deadly advice, its a good fast read in the rambling mind of a sociopath Dexter.
I'm a very neat monster.I'm really ashamed to say that it took me two weeks to read this book.
Two weeks for a 280 pages book!
Since I've seen the TV series, I knew even before I started this book that I was going to like it.
It didn't blow my mind or anything, but it was still a pretty great book.
And it really made me want to re-watch Dexter the series, and I hope I'll have enough time to do that.
If you watched TV series but haven't yet picked up this book, give it a shoot.
Spoilers below, so don't continue reading if you don't want to know what happens!A few things that I thought the TV show did a lot better was the whole "flirting with another killer" plotline.
However, in the books the killer goes largely absent from the plot, where in the TV show he shows up as Dexter's foster sister's boyfriend.
Neat." where in the TV show it's much more shocking, much more of a draw for Dexter to follow along in his brother's footsteps, and join him in killing indescriminantly.
Also in the book, he almost kills is foster sister...

I have had the good fortune of being recommended a lot of writings from the creme de la creme of this genre by my father, so grew up ingesting PD James, John le Carre, and Dennis Lehane with the pulp sci-fi that was my fare of choice.
This has given me a broad exposure to what could arguably be called the most popular genre in the US.So believe me when I say that I have never read a murder mystery of the caliber of "Darkly Dreaming Dexter".
Dexter Morgan is a serial killer of a far different variety.
He'd rather play, and since the killer has been sending him messages through the way the dead bodies are displayed, he's drawn into a fascinating game with deadly consequences.I have to say, Dexter is one of the most engaging and interesting - and understandable, perverse as it may be - anti-heroes I've ever read.
schizofrenie?); dar este un psihopat ale cărui porniri au fost canalizate de către tatăl său vitreg, un fost polițist, pentru a face bine: urmând „Codul lui Harry”, Dexter ucide doar criminali scăpați de mâna Justiției.Însă o nouă serie de crime intră în vizorul Poliției, de data aceasta fiind asasinați nevinovați; iar Dexter descoperă cu stupoare nu doar că asasinul rival este la fel de „artist” ca el, ci și că el însuși știe despre crime mai multe decât ar fi normal, iar pe una dintre camerele video este surprins la locul crimei...
În serial, Dexter are o natură melancolică, monologurile sale interioare fiind filosofice și chiar triste; cu excepția primului episod, își ucide victimele rapid, fără durere; s-a împăcat cu modul său de viață, care îi aduce liniște.
I think they are equally enjoyable, and given how much they branch away from each other come season two/book two, it's easy to call them completely different monsters.
The final season of the Showtime series was such a disappointment that it is offensive to most fans of the show.
Thus we have the four stars you see above.In summation: Fans of the show will find a hell of a surprise at the end of this book, as I was shocked to see certain characters living past season one of the Showtime series.
Why should I read the book?" Well, this time around, they are very different.
Over the years I've been told to watch it countless times and then told I have to read the books.
Well finally I decided to read one.While it was a good story it always felt like something was missing.
It felt like it was there just because the author couldn't think of a clever way of getting Dexter to the crime scenes, etc.
And it gave away the killers identity far too easily.It mentions how Dexter is supposedly brilliant but there was nothing in the book to substantiate that.
I liked the angle and Dexter's story but I think it could have been told much better.
Anybody can be charming if they don't mind faking it, saying all the stupid, obvious, nauseating things that a conscience keeps most people from saying. Happily, I don't have a conscience. I say them. And this is both charming and terrifying to read. Delightfully so. Just the right amount of shivers tingling up your spine. Mimicry is such a useful tool and Dexter is quite adept at it. Frankly, I find him refreshing and certainly less boring than most. The puzzles and tidiness, I do like them ve
Anybody can be charming if they don't mind faking it, saying all the stupid, obvious, nauseating things that a conscience keeps most people from saying.
Happily, I don't have a conscience.
And this is both charming and terrifying to read.
Delightfully so.
Just the right amount of shivers tingling up your spine.
Mimicry is such a useful tool and Dexter is quite adept at it.
The puzzles and tidiness, I do like them very much.This was another fantastic GR feed find from my friend PirateSteve.
There's really nothing scary about Dexter.
I'd say I'd be friends with him, but he's incapable.
I admit, I have become a big fan of the show, which is pretty smart and complex, despite its kind of silly premise.
AND it's gruesome, which is always good.
The book, however, lacks the depth and character development of the show.
I suppose that's one thing that television, as a medium, is actually really good at.
The book feels a little flip, and a little silly, andeven though it's the first in a series, it doesn't feel like it's building towards anything, which is another thing that makes the teevee version so great.
Making reference to the fact that Dexter likes Phillip Glass?
Oh Moon, glorious Moon --- Why did'nt I pick this up when it was first released is beyond me!I love Dexter and his Dark Passenger.
His sarcastic wit, his lizard brain, his fake girlfriend and actual love of little kids.
Whats not to love??
I highly recommend this to everyone.I am ranking this my #2 favorite series, coming in close to my #1 pick, The Odd Thomas Series by Dean Kootnz.
Jeff Lindsay does an excellent job of taking this emotionless monster who we should despise and hate, and actually gets the reader to root for him, to take his side, and has us hoping he catches the bad guys before the police do......
Part of why I feel this way would actually constitute two major plot spoilers for the book, and I don't want to give them away, but let's just suffice it to say that the details of the trauma would, in my opinion, cause something more like a phobia, and so the method of killing would be different, and it's far too EASY and convenient for that trauma to be the catalyst for...
This is exactly Dexter's preferred murder method, and so he is VERY interested in this killer...
E' stato riedito con questo titolo ma si tratta del primo capitolo della serie su Dexter, La mano sinistra di Dio. Nonostante lo abbia letto dopo aver visto la serie tv la lettura mi ha totalmente presa. Sarà stato perchè sono una fan accanita del personaggio, ma devo ammettere che è ben scritto. I personggi sono un po' diversi e anche la fine della storia, ma nonostante ciò non mi ha delusa neanche per una riga!
http://palarisme.ro/chef/carti/72-car...Cum să nu te captiveze povestea unui criminal în serie care încearcă să prindă un alt criminal în serie, în timp ce omoară, în nopţile libere, alţi criminali în serie? 3.5
I sill enjoyed reading Darkly Dreaming Dexter even though I knew what was gong to happen. Because I have watched most of the first season of Dexter on dvd. The good thing is I haven't watch any of the other seasons of Dexter on dvd. So the rest of the books in the series will be new to me. Will read one a month until I finish the series. Only seven more to go, looking forward to it. I gave Darkly Dreaming Dexter 4 stars.
Kako kažu važno je imati hobi, nešto čime ispunjavate vreme plus ako time činite svet malo boljim mestom još bolje.
Uzmimo našeg dragog gospodina Dextera koji vredno radi relativno težak posao, nema previše slobodnog vremena ai socijalni aspekt nije previše aktivan.
Klasičan primer de dobar hobi pomaže da ostane normalan mada u njemu je malčice drugačiji nego kod drugih ljudi...
Kao što rekoh hobi koji pomaže svetu da bude bolje mesto :)Sama knjiga kao knjiga je ok.
Ako ostane na ovom nivou i dalje to će već biti problem.Sve u svemu nije loše ali mislim da je serija bila dosta bolja.

I binge watched Dexter on Netflix a couple years ago and was hoping I would love the books just as much as I loved the television series. As usual, I think I like the book (at least the first one) even better! You really get inside Dexter's head in the book since it is entirely told from his perspective with his mental commentary splashed throughout. He really does have quite the sense of humor. I'm glad I decided to try out the book, and I cannot wait to read the others as well.
A page-turner. I'm a bit hazy on the ending of this book. But I will read the sequels. I rather enjoyed the book, the narration and the descriptions. Though many aspects of this book are non-scientific, it is enjoyable nonetheless.
Book with a whole new idea. I actually rooted for the not so bad guy!
If anyone really doesn't know, it's a series on Showtime with this wonderfully creepy intro.) So I picked up Darkly Dreaming Dexter with more than a little trepidation.
Darkly Dreaming Dexter is the story of Dexter Morgan, serial killer.
The book takes place when Dexter is twenty eight, and has been enjoying the life of an unknown serial killer for about ten years.
This book is really an introduction to Dexter, his life, and his ways.
Although the supporting characters do not play a very large role in the book (so far, at least) it was interesting to see them through author Jeff Lindsay's eyes.
