https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/142079.S_is_for_Silence
Book Review   4 out of 5 stars to S is for Silence, the 19th book in the "Kinsey Millhone" mystery series, written in 2005 by Sue Grafton. This is a top-notch installment in the series, proving why Grafton is so good at inventing characters who stick with you and never get boring. Kinsey takes on another case that she believes will be simple, against her better judgment. She hates delving into crimes that are over 30 years old, but she needs the money. And as she slowly weeds her way thru the
Book Review
4 out of 5 stars to S is for Silence, the 19th book in the "Kinsey Millhone" mystery series, written in 2005 by Sue Grafton.
This is a top-notch installment in the series, proving why Grafton is so good at inventing characters who stick with you and never get boring.
Kinsey takes on another case that she believes will be simple, against her better judgment.
Not quite as funny as Evanovich, not quite as hardcore as Paretsky, not as simple as other cozy mysteries, this is a balance of all the series with popular female lead / detective types.
Kinsey works the case of a missing woman.
The woman has been missing for over 30 years, and her daughter hires to Kinsey to finally discover what happened to her mother.
It's been many years, but Kinsey finds many people to question about the missing woman and the night she disappeared.
The 19th book in the Kinsey Millhone series.
A missing person case about a woman who had a reputation around town, and nobody was surprised when she disappeared.
It was never solved if she went on her own, or if she was killed.
Enter Kinsey and her investigative skills.
As posted in [http://www.amazon.com]:Ever since *A is for Alibi*, I've been hooked to the Kinsey Millhone series.
Kinsey has been hired by Daisy Sullivan to find out whatever happened to her mother, Violet, who disappeared on 4th of July 1953.
In walks Liza Mellincamp, who has been hired to babysit Violet's 7 year old daughter, Daisy.
Kinsey returns to the little town where Violet lived before she disappeared.
However, Kinsey has been able to piece together the last days of Violet before she disappeared.
It was no secret that Violet was a flirt.
In this the 19th in the Kinsey Millhone Alphabet Series by Sue Grafton, Kinsey is asked to investigate a cold case.
She left town with one of her many male “friends” or she was murdered by her abusive drunk husband Foley.Not as much Kinsey in this book, as instead of being completely from her point of view, S jumps back & forth between Kinsey in the present & those involved with Violet in some way in the time leading up to her disappearance.
So as the reader, you actually know a lot more about the victim & the suspects than Kinsey does for a change.
Grafton employs a couple of strategies that are often used in mysteries today, the concept of the protagonist taking on a "cold case" (which Kinsey has done before) and the use of flashbacks...and the type of flashback that has a new chapter simply taking place in the past, making the cold case characters come alive as Kinsey investigates the in "the future".
Grafton's future, the timeframe where she sets Kinsey, is 1987, and the disappearance she is tracking occurred in 1953.Violet Sullivan is a bad girl.
Red haired and extremely attractive, Violet disappears in her new car from Serena Station, a small California backwater town.
I suspected everyone.
My favorite was Kathy, who starts off as a rich, selfish meddling teen and seems to get worse as she ages, even though she's married to her big crush.What I didn't much care for was the lack of explanation for some characters' behavior.
For example, Kathy's crush who ends up marrying her though he seemed to have no reason.
She was the boss's daughter, but in the flashback, we don't see that the boss forces the young man into anything that would make him feel obligated to marry Kathy.I also felt let down when the killer's identity was revealed.
This was exactly what I was in the mood for! I have always enjoyed this series and it's so great that Grafton is still keeping me so entertained. This one really checked all my boxes. I loved all the flashbacks and that the mystery involved the town tramp. It was also great that I thought for sure I had it figured out and then I was wrong. What!?! HeeHee! I just loved this one and after 19 books, that's really saying something.
But - while I refuse to say that a victim of abuse "asked for it", the book almost seemed to be hellbent on pushing me in that direction, as Violet was a) selfish, b) played the victim card when it suited her, c) actually had plenty of money so she had a way TO GET OUT, about which she boasted all the time, to everyone, d) didn't care at all about leaving her daughter behind when she planned to leave, e) though she would never leave her dog, f) used sex as a means to get whatever she wanted, and, most awfully (I'll put this behind a spoiler because it is a bit, but seriously, I don't recommend any friends read this book) (view spoiler)[ when she's got one guy into a hot and torrid affair so he'll ensure she gets the expensive car she wants, and has cooled off noticeably to the other guy with whom she's been having another affair (whose wife is dying of cancer at the time) the cooled off guy tells her it's okay, because - y'know, wife in hospital dying and all.
I both liked and didn’t like this story.
I like the cold case aspect and I really liked watching how the disappearance of Violet affected each character over time.
What I didn’t like was that Violet was not a likable person and I found myself wondering why her daughter cared so much.
It seemed almost like I had read the story before.
Kinsey also seems to be getting closer to the people involved in the case to point of it almost impairing her judgement on certain items.
Fans of Sue Grafton will say that she never writes the same book twice and I agree with this but in S is Silence she definitely harkens back to a couple of her previous stories.
But for the first time I felt she was recycling ideas.Kinsey is hired to find out what happened to Violet Sullivan 30-some years ago.
The thing that is quite different about this book is the technique Sue Grafton uses to write it.
While the story may be reminiscent of some earlier books, it’s still a very enjoyable read.
I love Sue Grafton!
Grafton never disappoints.
The style of this book was different from her typical writing in that Grafton uses flashback techniques to tell her story.
While many writers might reveal too much or give us clues to enable the reader to figure out "who did it," Grafton keeps us hanging with just enough information.
I will say that I missed my usual dose of Kinsey Millhone.
While the flashbacks were intriguing, the didn't allow for much character development of Kinsey, which is one of my favorite elements of a Grafton mystery.
I always read Sue Grafton's novel for sheer enjoyment; Kinsey Millhone is a breezy, neat and avant-garde protagonist whose tactics make me smile.
At the onset of the novel, flash backs to the early '50s are employed, and for the most part, Grafton does this easily using grace and accuracy.
However, in many cases, too much time is devoted to past, needless and often wordy/boring details.In short, this is a real 'who dun it,' and draws the reader into the midst of various past/present situations revolving around obsessive love, lust, marriage, deceit, lust, greed, mother-daughter relationships, and the perils of alcoholism and anger.
If Grafton had been on the next letter, she could have called it T is for Trashy. I wanted a lighter, familiar read, what I got was a trashy, predictable read. You'd think by this point in the alphabet Grafton would have gotten the hang of character development. Not one character shows growth or redemption. Around page 200 I was ready to quit, I should have.
kinsey strikes (view spoiler)[the guilty party down, (hide spoiler)] againi'm feeling stingy today, however, with grafton changing up her style it gets an additional star
What a hoot...when the murderer was revealed ....geesh...I had to think about who that person was!!! Perhaps a bit too much wine!! LOL Another good read!!
I kind of see saw on this series. I definitely like some more than others. I think though this might be my favorite so far. It was different in style than her other books. Kinsey is hired by the daughter of a woman who disappeared on July 4th, 1953. The story jumps back and forth between the days before her disappearance and present day where Kinsey is interviewing all those involved. It really made for an interesting read.
I enjoyed S is for Silence but I hope Kinsey doesn’t do another cold case at least for a while. I liked how the story went back and forth between the present and the past when Violet was alive from different characters points of view. I figured out who did it. Twice. And when I got to the end, I found out who really did it.
"S" Is For Super, 6 Jan 2006 "When Liza Mellincamp thinks about the last time she saw Violet Sullivan, what comes most to mind is the color of Violet's Japanese silk kimono, a shade of blue that Liza later learned was called "cerulean" a word that wasn't even in her vocabulary when she was fourteen years old."Kinsey Millhorne is asked to help solve a thirty-four year old mystery.
Now she just has to know what happened, even if it involves her father.Violet Sullivan was the town "TRAMP" according to many people.
A small town talks and everyone seems to know everyone else's business.
The 19th book in the Kinsey Millhone series proved once again that the author is not content to simply repeat the formula of earlier novels and rest on her laurels.
This time, Kinsey is hired to solve a cold case of a missing person named Violet Sullivan who disappeared 34 years previously.
Most people assume Violet is dead but Violet’s daughter holds out hope that she simply ran away from her abusive husband and so hires Kinsey to close the loop.
They melded seamlessly with the modern day narrative and in many ways reminded me of the early years of the “Lost” TV show with those flashback sequences.
Violet Sullivan had her way with every important businessman in the little town.
One of the whoppers everyone remembers her telling that week too was how she had $50,000, but since Foley had been paying off the car for years after Violet was gone, stamped lie to that claim.
By the time everyone was back home later that night, Violet and her new car had vanished!I was a little bit unsatisfied by this Kinsey Millhone mystery, but never mind.
If the weather is cold and the wind is howling outside, why not settle down with a cup of hot chocolate and Sue Grafton's S is for Silence, another clever contribution to the Kinsey Millhone series.
This pleasant little romp has Kinsey investigating the 1953 disappearance of a woman, Violet Sullivan, local legend and "town harlot" who was loved by few and despised by many.
The story is set in the 1980's with Kinsey hired by the womans now adult daughter to find out what happened to her mother, who left town in her new 1953 Chevy BelAir taking nothing more than her Pomeranian dog and the clothes on her back (and perhaps the $50,000 insurance settlement she continually brags about to anyone who will listen).
Kinsey is hired by Daisy Sullivan to find her mother, Violet, who disappeared when Daisy was a child, 35 years previously.
Kinsey doesn't want to take the case as she feels it's a waste of her time and Daisy's money.
But Daisy is persuasive and gets Kinsey to accept the job for 5 days.
The story is presented in an interesting style; alternating between present day, where Kinsey interviews people who still live in the area and who knew Violet, and then presenting the final days of Violet's life in Serena Station.There was so much to enjoy about this latest Kinsey case.
I do like Sue Grafton's style.
This particular book had a cast of thoroughly unlikable characters, thus a frighteningly realistic story.She adds plenty of small detail -- not so much in the description of trees and smells and that kind of thing so many authors (me included) try to incorporate -- but in processes such as digging very large holes with a bulldozer (something I guess most of us have never done).
These sidebars of detail don't really add to the story, but are evidence of her terrific research and clearly show off what a good writer she is.Clearly this book was designed to lead the reader into thinking the bad guy was one of three possibilities.
I confess I figured it out, but not until pretty late in the tale.
I enjoyed this book, it packed with lies, unfairness and greed. This was a re-read and Kinsey's getting on my nerves.
But her dogged search for the truth eventually finds it and helps Daisy Sullivan put her life on a fresh track.Grafton takes a different approach with this narrative, running two parallel story lines, one during 1953 when Violet disappeared and the second in 1987 as Kinsey works the case.Kinsey begins the investigation the only way she knows how, by scouring the available paperwork and interviewing everyone who knew Violet at the time of her disappearance.
This could have been the money that helped Violet start a new life or it could have been the motive for her murder.As Kinsey interviews everyone she can in the small working class town of Serena Station California, she finds the townspeople reluctant to give her any information, not happy she is digging up old dirt.
A good who-dunnit. This series never ceases to entertain. I listened to it, and did find it a little difficult to keep track of all of the characters. The plot was interesting, and she switched between the then current time (1987) and the time of the murder (1953) to recreate the circumstances of the murder.
The """sex""" scene between 17 year old Ty and 14 year old Liza was absolutely rape. I'm disgusted that it wasn't portrayed as such and that there was talk of them getting back in touch.Good book other than that, but 1 star due to this.
the more I read this series, The More I love it. this book could easily be made into a movie.
3.5 Not one of my favorites in the series.
