https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/123199.Son_of_the_Black_Stallion
Don't remember this one as vividly as the first two but I do remember that despite having all 15 volumes on my shelf even back then, I never read the rest of the series. I don't think it was bad, I just never got around to doing it what with school books/reading lists and stuff. I'm gonna have to change that right after re-reading this one.
My favorite🤗
:) Off I go...I know I could just read the newer edition, but there's something about a well loved older book that appeals...
The librarian caught me reading the last page of a book and said "Shame on you!".
I explained my 1947 edition was missing the last page and I'd just read the rest of the book but the one page and she laughed.This one was good, but not quite as good as the first two.
I think next in the series is The Island Stallion which is one of the few books about another horse, one equal to the black.
Alec and Henry still plan to race him as a two year old, but lots of things seem to conspire to get in the way, including a jealous trainer who wants the colt for himself.No, what got to me was the feeling that Alec and Henry deserved everything they got.
I know this was written a while ago and, thank God, things have changed, but what a way to treat an animal.
But, apart from that, I was mildly entertained for a day while I read it and I won't be put off reading the next books in the set.
August 23 2016 This book is about a boy named Alec who was on a cruse ship with his dad when it suddenly started to sink and Alec got trapped on an island for 9 or 10 days.
And in that time he met a beautiful horse he named Black.
Alec needed to earn Black's trust.
Alec and black finally go rescued and Alec trained Black to be a race horse.
He met a horse he named Black and they formed a special bond with each other.
Alec trained black to be a race horse he won his first race.
Although I think that Alec was trying too hard to see the black stallion in this new colt, which I found slightly annoying, because it took him longer than necessary to realize that the horse's son was nothing like his father, I still found it an enjoyable read. and it was a quick book to read as well. Most of the characters are easy to like, for example henry and Alec. Some of the problems that arose in the book didn't seem all that believable though.
This was actually the first Black Stallion book that I ever read, and I was immediately drawn into the wild, unpredictable, even dangerous colt of a famed stallion who seemed to be at war with the whole world. Beautifully written, I was drawn into the struggle of Alec's blind love for a colt who truly deserved the name Satan.
Didn't much care for these, at least once I grew out of the blindly adoring HORSIE phase; too sugary a transition from fiery resistance to adoration after the scene in which Henry tries to beat the spirit out of the colt. I don't care if Alec did come to the rescue at the last moment, if I were the horse I'd still be pretty pissed off at all the humans.
I'm enjoying re-reading my childhood favourites. However, it strikes me now what a ninny Alec's dad is. in the beginning, he keeps coyly referring to the giant, coal-black, red-eyed, son of The Black, man-killer named 'Satan' his son has in the stall as Alec's 'pony'. I mean..really, Dad. Wake up and smell the horse manure or you'll end up with a foreleg in your man groin.
My oldest daughter is working through this series and LOVED this book!
Alec finally gets Blacks stallions first son as a gift and Satan is horrible.
Alec risks his life to tame the wild horse.
Satan tries to fight anything and everyone, but Alec and Henry still manage to race him as a two year old.
The fact the two got the horse to America was amazing.
It was really distrubing when Henry used a rope at home, which made the stallion fall to the ground and start bleeding.
I still loved this book, even though the plot wasn't as good as the first two Black Stallion books.
"You can’t let your heart rule your head."I love the Black Stallion series, but my favorite ones are the ones, well, with The Black in them. My second favorite is probably Satan. It's a new generation of amazing horses to learn to know and love.
Book of my childhood! :)
If you like horses, you should read this.
Simple Joy to ReadThe author takes us on a pleasant journey with characters we would glad to have as friends in a simpler time.
Not nearly as exciting as the first, but still pretty good. I adored this series when I was a kid.
A good read for kids.
I read this as a child.
it was a vary good book and I enjoyed it a lot and I would read it again
Alec misses the Black terribly, but the Black's legal owner has promised him the Black's first foal. Both Alec and Henry are on tenterhooks to see what the colt looks like.But the savage beast that has sailed across the ocean to them looks to be utterly filled with hate, and completely untrainable.Even though I love Black best, this story was SO GOOD!! Walter Farley is the ultimate horse fiction author of all time.
The Son of the Black Stallion - no one anticipated his arrival more than Alec Ramsey, but I'd say fans of The Black Stallion were a close second.
Faith in his ability to win over the horse and train him to race in his father's footsteps, Alec pulls his supporters along with him.
So, will they be able to do it - and can they do it in time?Farley continues the story of Alec Ramsey and his wild racehorses with every bit of passion that he put into the first two books.
It was good. I enjoyed Black Beauty and I enjoy series.
In Son of the Black Stallion, Alexander William (Alec) Ramsay, who lives in Flushing, NY, with his father William and mother Belle and is now in college, receives the Black Stallion’s first offspring as a gift, naming him Satan, and believes that his dreams have come true to win another race.
Still, Alec, aided by retired racehorse trainer Henry Dailey, is resolved to gain the fiery colt’s trust, even if it means risking his own life.
Most horse lovers and readers of horse stories will enjoy the book.
The story line flows well.
While I missed reading about Alec and Black, it was interesting to see him trying to gain the colt's trust.
Some parts were hard to get through when Alec reminisces about the black stallion because the animal to man bond was so strong that this felt like a cheap knockoff of a beautiful friendship.
Yes, I know it sounds weird but anybody with a beloved pet can kinda understand why Alec misses Black.
Nonetheless, if you like reading about bonds humans forge with animals its a great book but not as strong as its predecessors.
He will now help Alec train satin for the biggest racearound them.
Henry does not believe Alec can train Satin.
The two years they have till the race is plenty time to train Satin.
Alec is a kid who wants a sire of the black.
He needs to help Satin over come his fears, so he can race in the hopeful.
Alec and Satin go through a lot of trouble, but they still race in the hopeful.
I liked the book a lot.
I liked it because it shows that if you try, you can do any realistic thing you want.
Satan was a nice horse after he got over the whole 'trying to murder everyone he sees' thing.
I could've done without the frantic search for a slip of paper thing; I get that enough in real life!I'm just not sure I agree with Henry's, uh, 'method' of straightening Satan out.
It certainly wasn't the 'only' way to tame him, just the fastest.
I'm sure Alec's way would have worked eventually, because unlike what Farley seems to have believed, horses can't be 'throwbacks' and be 'inherently wild'.
If that were true, even Henry's method wouldn't have worked.
Kinda sad how Satan has to be "broken" before he comes around. I have to laugh at the idea of him being glad to get a chance to race his sire - you'd think it would be like my Jack Russell Terrier getting in teh same room with his son!I also remember getting in a fight with a girl in my 5th grade class because she insisted that I was pronouncing the horse's name wrong - she kept saying "it's Satin!" There's no way a horse would be named after the devil!!
This is a bit of a rehash of the original: boy befriends aggressive wild stallion through s traumatic experience and must win the big race. But it's still different enough to warrant a read. I read this aloud to my 2 and 5 year old which is a bit bizarre given that the horse's name is Satan. I spent many night reading to my girls and telling them all about Satan. Some very intense scenes in this one.
I started re-reading The Black Stallion series by Walter Farley in April and read five more from that series in May: Son of the Black Stallion, The Black Stallion and Satan, The Island Stallion, The Island Stallion's Fury, and The Blood Bay Colt. Only The Black Stallion and Satan was as enjoyable as when I was a kid, though I remember never really caring for the Island Stallion "spin-offs" or the two books on harness racing. Where's Alec and The Black? Bring 'em back!
Although the Black Stallion series was published over 30 years ago, I think kids will still enjoy these stories about a young man's love for his race horses. However, as an adult who's had competition Arabians for over two decades, some parts of the stories make me shake my head and think "um..no."Also, not as well written as My Friend Flicka series which was published at about the same time and also about a young man's love for horses.
