https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17558817-be-with-me
DNF at 62%This is how I felt when I found out about this bookAnd this is my disappointment while reading itI absolutely love JLA and her YA paranormal series and I adored book #1 in this series - Wait for You - but I have to admit that she lost her touch in this book.
Story was not captivating enough and characters were driving me crazy (not in a good way) so I just couldn't finish it.Jase wasn't able to make up his mind.
And don't make start about his lame reasons for all of that...Moreover, Tess and Jase were boring together as a couple in my eyes and they never grew on me.
Reading Is My Breathing
Just because you build a super Wal-Mart, that doesn’t make it a town.”Jase stared at me a moment longer and then he laughed deeply.God help me, but I loved it when he laughed like that.
If talking about fake towns and Wal-Marts got him in the hugging mood, I’d start naming other places like Darksville and Shanghai and—“Sometimes I don’t think you’re right in the head.” He squeezed me as he dropped his chin to the top of my head and my breath caught in my throat.
I want more of Cam, Avery, Brit, Jacob, Ollie, Jase and Theresa.
Jase is Cam’s best friend and Tess is Cam’s little sister.
Now that Tess is on the same college campus as Jase, it is so much harder for him to keep his distance.
Tess and Jase do the friendship thing for a while.
Things are different with Tess than any other girl.
I liked the quote that Jase said about good things coming from the unexpected.
She seemed like a good friend to Tess and after hearing a little of her story, I’m interested to see whats going to happen with her.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
This time around, we get to discover Jase and Tess's story.
Their story started off when Tess was sixteen and they kissed accidentally which made the tension between them become more intense as the years went by.
However, I still feel like I love the first book even better than this.
Both the main characters carry heavy issues that I guess, will never be resolved in just one book.
It could have been better if the story just focused on the main characters alone.
The romantic scenes between Jase and Tess are sweet and hot.
Ever since reading Cam and Avery's story in book one of this series, "Wait For You," I was anxious to read about Jace and Teresa.
Jace is Cam's best friend, and Teresa is his younger sister.
This is a stand alone, but I encourage you to read book one, as I sure wouldn't want you to miss out on Cam and Avery's HEA.I must admit though, I wish this was written in dual POV's to really delve deeper into Jace's thought process.
She is now enrolled in the same college as her brother, Cam, and the one guy who could make all of Teresa's girl fantasies come true.
And God knows I knew what it felt like to be slapped.
“Thank you.” His spine lost some of its stiffness as he draped his arm over my shoulders. Tugging me against the shelter of his body, he rested his cheek against the top of my head and sighed. “Thank you for being here with me.” Well that was difficult to read. This was very different than Wait for You. While Wait for You was a passionate and a well-driven novel, Be with Me was so much more different. It shared less passionate romance, it shared way too much drama, and it didn't have any of the
It shared less passionate romance, it shared way too much drama, and it didn't have any of the expectations I had after Wait for You. I don't do half stars with books, no matter how close it is to a .5 or how far it should be from the given rating, but I feel like this one deserves it?
I had problems with both of the characters, the side chararacters, and the plot itself.Be with Me is about Teresa Hamilton and Jase Winstead, Cam's little sister and best friend from Wait for You. Teresa has been in love with Jase for a while now, especially after sharing a small yet passionate kiss with him.
Title: Be With MeSeries: Wait for You #2Author: J. LynnRelease Date:  February 4th, 2014Rating: 4 starsCliffhanger: No HEA:  (view spoiler)[ Yes. (hide spoiler)]I love J Lynn’s books, and it’s not a secret. I think I’d read a tour guide if she wrote it. Her novels are just so damn fantastic, it’s very hard not to fall in love with them. Not only Jennifer L Armentrout can write a good damn romance, she can phenomenally mix it with drama, suspense and fill me with all those fluffy, fuzzy emotions
(hide spoiler)]I love J Lynn’s books, and it’s not a secret.
Not only Jennifer L Armentrout can write a good damn romance, she can phenomenally mix it with drama, suspense and fill me with all those fluffy, fuzzy emotions in a matter of hours.
Although, I didn’t love it as much as Cam and Avery’s story, because how can you out write perfection?
Jase was attracted to Tess since she was sixteen, but he just couldn’t do anything about it.
The only reason I dropped the rating to four stars is the fact that I couldn’t stop myself from comparing Tess and Jase to Cam and Avery.
This books tells us the story of Teresa (Tess) and Jase.
It was nice, endearing, the story hooked me but it just didn’t felt like a Jennifer Armentrout book.
I still love her!)Storyline:  Good, engaging but lacking some coherence at some moments.Writing Style:  First person, female POV.
Tess was pretty good and I loved how she wasn’t a whiny heroine and didn’t self-pity herself through the whole book.
Jase, from the previous book, I was expecting more from you!!The supportive cast was excellent and I loved to see more of Cam and Avery.
Innerhalb von einem Tag durchgesuchtet <3 Ich muss aber sagen, dass die Übersetzung echt total schlecht ist. Das Wort "Cupcake" wurde hier zwar nicht übersetzt, aber dafür "Red Velvet" in "Roter Samt" xD ein Roter-Samt-Cupcake. Oder Dilf (wie "Milf") in "FV" - fi**barer Vater. Und der Spruch "Was geht?" - "nicht dein IQ" ergibt überhaupt keinen Sinn auf deutsch. Im Englischen mit "What's up" wäre es ja noch relativ witzig gewesen ... naja. Wahrscheinlich lese ich auf englisch weiter.
I consider "Be with me" the best of the series, although I love the first one, I connected more with this and maybe because of the characters.Avery was very fragile and vulnerable, but I was in the mood of reading something about a determined and stubborn heroine.
Teresa was it:)The book follows Teresa and Jase, Cam's little sister and best friend.
Jase on the other hand was guarded and kept his distance, partly because we are talking about his best friend litte sister, but mainly because he has a well guarded secret that once revealed, it would change Teresa's opinion about him.I liked Teresa so much.
4 I've Always Wanted You Stars!  Teresa Hamilton aka Tess always dreamed of being a dancer until an injury has left her future uncertain. She is now going to have to go with her back up plan, and attend college. She heads to Shepherd where her big brother Cam is going to school. Also attending Shepherd is her brother's best friend Jase Winstead who she has had a crush on for the past three years. In Teresa's eyes Jase was everything she'd ever wanted in a guy, and absolute physical perfection. J
Also attending Shepherd is her brother's best friend Jase Winstead who she has had a crush on for the past three years.
In Teresa's eyes Jase was everything she'd ever wanted in a guy, and absolute physical perfection.
After they share that incredible kiss, Teresa doesn't see or hear from Jase for a year.
So the problem is the more Jase is around Teresa, the more he wants her & has trouble resisting her.
They struggle because of Jase's past, him feeling he isn't good enough for her, & the issue of her brother, & have to decide if they have something worth fighting for.
Well.... this is another one for my "I liked it but didn't love it" shelf. Honestly it wasn't a bad read at all, it just pissed me off more than making me smile. Let me rephrase that, Jase pissed me off.  [image error]It probably is a case of it is just me, my mood..... but dang it, I loved Jace. I really liked Teresa. I wanted to love this story. Maybe tomorrow I'll feel different. But for now, I have to move on and get more to this growing group!!!!! Still loving the series though!!!!
Konnte mich wieder genauso begeistern wie auch der erste Band. Finde es auch schön, dass Cam und Avery wieder vorkamen. Tess und Jase mochte ich als Protagonisten auch wahnsinnig gern und die Story war ein echter Pgaeturner. Auch der Schreibstil gefällt mir bei den Büchern von J. Lynn immer gut. Den einen Stern hab ich nur abgezogen, weil mir ein paar Kleinigkeiten bitter aufgestoßen sind, aber das ist Geschmackssache.
27/04/2014Hm, it was OK.--Are my prayers being answered?Ollie..Jase..Teresa..or Britt?Anything related to Wait For You?Sequel?These are just my speculationsOMG I AM RIGHT *I THINK* IT IS ABOUT....... Teresa Hamilton!See character description....Then it will probably be Jase! Woo

If we can't get more Cam, then we get the next best thing...Cam's best friend, Jase, and Cam's little sister, Tess.
I really enjoyed her much more than I thought I would even if she had sex on the brain when Jase was around.• Jase - I loved getting to see his vulnerable side and I sure didn't see the twist coming.• Calla - I thought she was great!
• The back and forth between Jase and Tess got to be a bit much.
Things that change everything about your life—about what you thought you wanted, who you thought you were.
********SPOILER ALERT******Man, I'm such a sucker for a good romance.
Men should read your books and take notes on how to treat a girl.
That being said, I didn't like this book for several reasons.
I didn't like the end.
If just feels like it and man that was so damn sad.
It was like watching a tragedy about to happen and you're so powerless.
That should've happened.
This book could've been really good but then Jennifer goes and turned okay characters into annoying ones.
Can we just have the rest of the books being about Cameron and Avery?
Update June 18th-What?!!2014?!That's tooo long :(~~~~~~~~~~~~~ "Love can heal. Love can also kill." .............................................OMFG.Teresa's story?With whom?Jase?!!I want,need,desire,require whatever this NOW!!Just give us a release date and put me out of my misery already!P.S-If its Teresa's story,please give us some tidbits on Cam and Avery's life even.
She's been harboring feelings for her brother's best friend ever since that night that he kissed her a year ago, the night that he took her mind off of the abusive relationship she escaped and the events that would change her brother's life.Jase can't seem to stop his attraction to Tess, his life is far too complicated though for him to allow himself to fall for this girl.
Saddled with his own secrets and fears of what loving someone can do; he pushes Tess away.
But that did not diminish the story for me one bit.Tess was a likable all the way around - she wasn't overly insecure and she knew what she wanted from the start.
Did I want a bit more to this story?
4.5 Cupcake stars!I devoured this book in one sitting. Be With Me is Teresa and Jase's story. Jase is Cam's bestfriend and Teresa is Cam's sister. Sounds really simple and predictable, right? But it's really not. Sometimes, it's simple stories like these that can trip an author up. But not Jennifer Armentrout. In fact, some of her most unforgettable stories, at least for me, follows pretty much a simple patter of boy meets girl and they fall in love, conquer their obstacles and lived happily eve
Be With Me is Teresa and Jase's story.
Jase is Cam's bestfriend and Teresa is Cam's sister.
Sometimes, it's simple stories like these that can trip an author up.
:)This was a perfect blend of sweet with a dash of angst and a pinch of suspense thrown in.
It was the perfect read for me.
I enjoyed Teresa too!
It was sweet and the banter was fun.
It didn't hurt that Jase and Teresa's chemistry was sizzling hot!
It was really fun and enjoyable read.
But he's redeemed.What more can I say about a Jennifer Armentrout book that hasn't already been said?With all the talk about cupcakes.
“He was going to make me gain ten pounds this way, but so far I’d had a variety of cupcakes—Twix, Oreos, strawberry, white chocolate, Skittles—that was kind of gross—banana and chocolate, and a dark chocolate cupcake that was so decadent I felt like I had to go to church after eating it.”
“Today we shared a red velvet cupcake with some kind of cream cheese icing.”
“It’s peanut butter icing and filling.”
“It’s vanilla with strawberry icing.”
4 Super Cute StarsI really like this series and although Be With Me didn’t leave me shocked and awed like Wait for You, I still enjoyed Be with Me a lot.Teresa is your typical college gal.
I liked her, she’s cute and who doesn’t like a Heroine who has a crush on the Hero.
Very … like I say it again, cute right?JaseOh Jase, the guy with a lot of baggage and issues.
There’s crazy tension and you just want them to work it out!OverallI really like the banter between the main characters and it’s pretty fast pace read.
I WANT THIS BOOK!!!
This is the second book in the  Wait For You  series!
Teresa Hamilton is having a rough year—she’s in love with her big brother’s best friend, but he hasn’t spoken to her since they shared a truly amazing, mind-blowing, change-your-life kiss.
Even though he and Teresa shared the hottest kiss of his life, he knows that his responsibilities must take priority.
He certainly doesn’t have time for a relationship.
But it doesn’t help that all he can think about kissing the one girl who could ruin everything for him.As they’re thrown together more and more, Jase and Tess can’t keep denying their feelings for each other.
I think because Cameron Hamilton and his damn cookies were met first...there was pretty high bar set, so although I love Jase and Tess...it wasnt as fabulous as book 1!This however does not take away how much I truly liked this.
There was still a bit of humor and good banter, but again...more complex/intense characers!I really like Jase...How truly heartbreaking his past is.
I love Jase and his pink cupcake boxes, and I hope he and Tess make it...i guess time will tell!
📚Sominenin ustunde Noel corapları asılıydı.“Suna bak.” One uzandı ve kırmızı bir corabı cengelinden cıkarıp eline aldı. “Ne dusunuyorsun?”“Ah!” Corabın uzerinde kırmızı parıltılarla ismim yazılıydı. “Bu benim mi? Ciddi misin?”“Evet. Jack bu sabah onu senin icin yaptı. Sevdin mi?”“Sevdim. Gercekten sevdim.”“Noel Baba’nın corabına ne bırakacagını merak ediyorum.”One egilip dudaklarından optum. “Noel’den bekledigim her seye sahibim su an.”“Ben degilim,” diye mırıldadı. “Cunku acgozluyum, yarın sab
Bir yandan da bana böyle hissetirdiği için Tess’in saçını başını yolmak istedim.İlk 200 sayfada sadece, Jase’in önce öpmesini sonra inkar etmesini; Tess’e olur olmaz konuşup kalbini kırmasını; Tess’in içine oturan sözleri, kırılan kalbini ve yine yeni yeniden Jase’i affetmesini; ikisinin de kendisini kandırmasını okudum.
(Yazarken yoruldum yeminle.) Tess’in bacağına olanlar dışında başka hiçbir olay yoktu.Eğer Jase bir kez daha öptüğü, dokunduğu ya da seviştiği için özür diler, sonrasında da sil baştan başlayıp hepsini yeniden yaparsa veya ‘onu demek istemedim, seni kırmak istemedim, ben aslında bunu istemiyorum, seni istiyorum’ derse hap içip intihar edecektim.Tam ‘Jase daha ne kadar pisliğin teki olabilir’ derken cevabımı acı bir şekilde aldım.
3.5 StarsWell this is another one for my "I liked it but didn't love it" shelf. It wasn't a bad read really, I just never really fell in love with both Jase and Tess and all that was going on with them.It probably is a case of it is just me, my mood etc....
Be with Me was a book I went in with low expectations because it seemed to be a book a lot of my friends didn't like.
Those expectations were basically fulfilled because this book was quick, easy and nice but it definitely wasn't anything amazing.Be with Me follows the love story of Jase and Teresa who have basically just been obsessed with each other since they first kissed a year ago.
However, Jase is best friends with Teresa's older brother, Cameron (from Wait for You), and therefore they can't do anything about it.
The worst part is I couldn't remember Jase.
He was intense and hot and funny and sweet...I could go on and on.Jase as I shamefully remembered, was Cam's best friend.
Jase has a big secret that he uses to keep away from relationships and the only girl to ever make him question this happens to be Cam's little sister.
Jase was scared, petrified his secret would ruin anything between him and Tess.
Also scared what could potentially happen between him and Tess.
The next book will surely give us more of those two as well as Jase and Tess.
Loved it way more than WAIT FOR YOU. Love Jase and Tess <3 Full review to come soon.
It kept me reading - I felt for Teresa in terms of her losing her respective dreams and thinking her life would go in one direction but ended up completely going another and having to deal with the hard reality of that measure.
You'd think an abusive relationship, even a purported murder/suicide would have more weight for the portrayal, but on one hand, the scenarios were not only telegraphed in a way that shortchanged the situation, but some parts were so contrived that you could tell it was just to spike the drama up from 0 to 60 in a short amount of time, leaving me feeling cheated for the experience of trying to see how these characters are affected and making me care for them.
In fact, I have to say that considering Teresa is 18, and Jase is 22...they are dealt with major blows in their life.
I have devoured each book I have read so far, and definitely want to keep going with this series.
If you are a reader that likes angst in their stories, then this series is well worth looking into.
Honestly, I mostly try to stay away from a lot of angst; but for some reason this series has held me captivated so far!!Super glad I have gone back to this series, and I can't wait to see what else is to come!!
