https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2327.The_Letters_of_J_R_R_Tolkien
I discovered The Letters of J.R.R. Tolkien back in '96 when I moved to an LA suburb and was searching through the library for something interesting to read while I took advantage of their free A/C during the blistering summer heat.
This was definitely something interesting, but only because I was a Tolkien fanboy.
Me, I pored over over them, so happy to read even the most minuscule detail of the man's life.It's been a while, so my recollection of what's contained in the letters is not precise.
Tolkien, as popular as he is, is too often misunderstood.
His works and world are wrongly interpreted and crazy assumptions are made about the man himself.
Worst is when people use The Lord of the Rings to make a point that Tolkien himself would have disagreed with.
If everyone who wanted to say something about Tolkien read his letters first, they would do the man and his works far better justice.
Of particular interest in this book are the many moving references to Tolkien's deep Catholic Faith, particularly the long letter to one of his sons on the subject of marriage and the relationships between men and women.
The illustrations will be ready tomorrow.Yours faithfully,Tolkien....this decade, etc.Dear Unwin,I may have no taste but the American cover art is appalling and did they even read the book?Yours faithfully,Tolkien.[Repeat all of the above w.r.t LoTR]Dear [Inkling]the other Inklings' work is mostly rubbish but I like it in parts and even though they are annoying I like them really.Yours,Tolkers.[repeat with every other Inkling]Dear [somebody acquainted with me]that critic is impertinent and did he even read the book?Yours, annoyed,JRRTDear Christopher,you are the only one who understands me!
What better way to enter the mind of a mentor you'll never get to meet than to read his letters? There are so many facets I gleaned about the man by reading these letters--his humor, sadness, fear & humility.
An excerpt from a letter to Walter Hooper, 20 February 1968:"I remember Jack [C.S. Lewis:] telling me a story of Brightman, the distinguished ecclesiastical scholar, who used to sit quietly in Common Room saying nothing except on rare occasions.
Jack said that there was a discussion on dragons one night and at the end Brightman's voice was heard to say, 'I have seen a dragon.' Silence.
He relapsed into silence and never before his death explained what he meant."Very few things could be more imagination-sparking than reading that late at night curled up with a massive book of letters when one is already thinking about wonderful things.
One of my favorite rereads.Not only does one catch a glimpse of Tolkien's personality, life, and times, but deep in this book are buried letter-essays that provide the kernels of his ideas "On Fairy Stories" and the poem Mythopoeisis.
He hated the appellation “professor.”Among these letters covering most of his adult life, we learn how he viewed his world, his writings, his friends, his religion and his invented languages and history.
The letters begin shortly after The Hobbit was published and cover the production of The Lord of the Rings and the aftermath of its unexpected popularity, and his futile struggle to complete and publish The Silmarillion, which his son Christopher succeeded in publishing five years after his father died.For those, like myself, who count Tolkein’s works as the gold standard of epic fantasy, these letters give insights only alluded to elsewhere.
We learn the origin of the world, names and characters of the fantasy, and his struggle to keep others from reading alien ideas into the works.
I was absolutely delighted to have so much to sink my teeth into.I don't read books about Tolkien to think 'Oh, so that's why he wrote it like this!' I agree with him (in this instance, at least) that an author's life should not be examined with intention of gaining insight with regards to authorial intent (have I phrased this sentence correctly?).
These letters are chockful of highly valuable information to any fan of Middle-Earth I do have to add a caveat - I've not yet read any of Tolkien's writings besides the LotR and The Hobbit, so I can't say how much of this information is exclusive but to read Tolkien's own words feels very special indeed.This review consists mostly of me gushing...I might be a bit of a fangirl.
But even more important, they shed light on the mind and thoughts of this great man.After reading this, I feel like I know Tolkien a lot better than I did from just reading his books (although I probably still don't know him at all).
And of course, there were many funny letters as well, for example the ones concerning the many difficulties Tolkien had with people who didn't know what to think of the books (or those who had never read them while claiming to know everything about them).If possible, I appreciate Tolkien's mythology even more now than I used to.
Reading Tolkien's letters has to be fascinating for anyone interested in the man and/or his works. He reflects on what he wrote, gives advice to his sons, reports on the progress of his work, and sends irritated letters to Germans who have asked if he's of Jewish descent. It's a pretty exhaustive collection, with an index and little bits of context to go with each letter. Worth reading!
This could be described as "the glory of Germanic culture without Naziism." Tolkien saw a number of items that are either not noticed in the world, or not harmonized: 1) Germanic literature has an austere cultural beauty about it; 2) Modernism has no beauty; 2) Hitler rightly reacted to the decadence of democracies; 3) Hitler's actions would destroy the beauty of Germanic culture; 4) There would be no winners in WW2.Besides brilliant commentary and background on the LotR, we gain insight into JRR's cultural views.
He was an Agrarian (and not a Green Hippie) who hated both socialism and godless capitalism.
What a ride! I really enjoyed this. This book is for ppl really interested in Tolkien and his masterpieces chiefly those on Middle Earth.I came to know a lot more about the man behind the books and also about Middle Earth and it's myths. There are answers for very interesting matters, like hobbits, ents and the Elvish tongues.It was such a pity that he couldn't publish the Silmarillion during his life time as I can feel that through out his letters this was in his mind all the time and he did work long and hard to achieve it.
Ik zie niet in hoe de persoonlijke details van mijn leven daaraan bij kunnen dragen." Als hij een brief ontvangt van een lezer die wetenschappelijke onderzoek naar zijn werken en leven wil doen, reageert hij kort en afwijzend: "Het spijt mij als deze brief een beetje knorrig overkomt.
Ik heb een uitgesproken hekel aan dergelijke analyses".We kunnen ons dus afvragen of Tolkien zelf de waarde van dit boek zou zien.
Het was niet altijd spannend, soms repetitief of saai, maar aan het eind wil ik geen afscheid nemen van Tolkien, zijn verlangens, dromen, knorrigheid en verhalen.
Tolkien speaks often in these letters about his distaste for the over-analysis of literature.
So, as I read these letters of Tolkien I tried not to let what I learned about him, his life, and his views color the stories, particularly those, of course, of the Legendarium.
In one of the last letters of the book, Tolkien recalls a story in which an acquaintance shows him paintings that were created long before Middle-earth, yet seemed to almost illustrate Lord of the Rings.
On a less important note, I doubt any casual Middle-earth reader will enjoy these letters, unless they just like reading letters.
I don't think I can relay just how much I loved reading this. A lot of information about the characters, themes, and linguistic elements in his writing, as well as a nice glimpse into his role as father, husband, and professor. As a more-than-casual fan of Tolkien, I found this book to be extremely insightful, and can't believe it took me this long to finally read it.
@TolkienKC ~ Read for the Tolkien Society of Kansas City and finishing our discussion on Friday, August 24, 2018, 6:00 to 8:00 p.m. Central.
The main recurring insights throughout the numerous letters on Tolkien's Middle-earth is that 1) it IS NOT (intentionally) ALLEGORICAL 2) The Silmarillion (despite being published posthumously and edited by his son) is vital to understanding LOTR fully 3) Death and immortality are the main themes of "The Jewels and Ring" 4) Almost every criticism since LOTR's publication and now Tolkien in some way form responded to.Amongst his letters are several comical responses, lengthy explanations on First and Second Age works, frustration at how foreign publications translated and/or edited his work, marriage and religious guidance (primarily to his son Michael), and the struggle he had in trying to produce "the sequel" to the Hobbit.It is by no means the most interesting letter collected here, but seeing as how prevalent the PJ movies are it is interesting to note the Professor's criticism of an early film 'treatment' of the LOTR in Letter 210, specifically:"If both the Ents and [Helm's Deep] cannot be treated at sufficient length to make sense, then one should go.
Aside from the very interesting parts about his life, the sort of kick in the stomach at the first letters after the death of his wife, the fact that there's so much thought and story about Middle-Earth and all his other works, was an absolute pleasure to read.
If I'm going to write about Lord of the Rings for my thesis, who better to explain the vast universe than Tolkien himself?
Absolutely a must read for all fans, and I need to add this book to my Tolkien collection as fast as possible.
And after all that whining, I finished The Letters today after all! Feel a bit uncomfortable 'rating' this – any evaluation of this is going to be as much a review of the person of Tolkien as of his ideas and works, and that doesn't seem quite right to me. All the same, will attempt a longer review later to at least describe what it was like, if not how good or bad it was.
They are made small … partly to exhibit the pettiness of man … and mostly to show up, in creatures of very small physical power, the amazing and unexpected heroism of ordinary men 'at a pinch'.""A moral of the whole [LotR] … is the obvious one that without the high and noble the simple and vulgar is utterly mean; and without the simple and ordinary the noble and heroic is meaningless.""I think the simple 'rustic' love of Sam and his Rosie (nowhere elaborated) is absolutely essential to the study of his (the chief hero's) character, and to the theme of the relation of ordinary life (breathing, eating, working, begetting) and quests, sacrifice, causes, and the 'longing for Elves', and sheer beauty."139"I The Return of the Shadow""II The Shadow Lengthens""III The Return of the King"140"The War of the Ring (or, if you still prefer that: The Return of the King)""The Two Towers … can be left ambiguous."142"'The Lord of the Rings' is of course a fundamentally religious and Catholic work; unconsciously so at first, but consciously in the revision.
If you manage to read the letters in order, they offer a unique perspective into some of the key relationships in Tolkien's life, including that with his son Christopher and Rayner Unwin, the publisher's son who gave his stamp of approval to The Hobbit as a child and later grew to be a publishing exec himself.
I suppose the book is meant to be read in order, but there is an index conveniently included for those who want to focus on certain tomes in the Tolkien canon.
Who should read this book: fans of all things Tolkien, etymology geeks, fans of Finnish literature (there are some great references to The Kalevala), etc.
Sick and tired of your pompous friends claiming they know and understand what Tolkien meant, only to shoot off at the mouth some bizarre, mid '90s goth kid trash about the real meanings of the metaphors used in Tolkien's work?
This book details Tolkien's real meanings in personal letters he wrote to the publishers and others.
Sick and tired of videogame companies destroying your fantasy, while claiming they're right on with "source material"?
Buy this book and quote passages where Tolkien berates various editors and producers for altering his work.
An amusing thing about these letters, is that Tolkien's letters suggest he would have approved of the recent movies.
Es imposible ser objetivo con el Profesor y todo lo relacionado a él pero intentaré aunque sea algo.Sin haber leído todavía la biografía de Carpenter este libro me ha dado una visión un poco más intimista de la vida en general de Tolkien, pero no es ahí donde destaca sino en los puntos de vista y perspectivas filosóficas, morales, críticas y creativas que el Profesor despliega en cartas formales e informales que -como toda correspondencia epistolar- presumen privacidad o al menos no masividad.
Tolkien states unequivocally that he detests volumes two and three of Lewis' Space Trilogy, and attributes the failure of "That Hideous Strength" in particular to Lewis' friendship with Charles Williams during its composition.
(You will see also that Tolkien has very warm praise for the first volume, Out of the Silent Planet.
It is hard not to notice the fact that he issues his compliments to that book at a time when his friendship with Lewis was still very active and congenial, and that his sharp criticism of the latter two comes after the notorious chill between the men.) Tolkien says in one letter that Lewis is unconsciously anti-papist in conversation, an insinuation that I find fascinating.
Tolkien attributes it to Lewis' Irishness.
This book was fascinating, primarily because with about 60 years of fans and critics publishing their ideas on the work of J.R.R. Tolkien, it was interesting to read the ideas of the man himself.
Granted, this book should not be read by folks just interested in The Lord of the Rings, Hobbit, or Silmarillion.
That being said, his thoughts and ideas on expanding Middle Earth are incredible to read, and it makes this reader wish he'd had just a few years left in his long life to see some of these ideas come to print.
One night my wife looked over at me sitting on the couch and asked, “are you seriously reading that book?” She could not understand why anyone would want to read hundreds of pages of someone’s personal letters.
But for those who have enjoyed Tolkien’s stories, this set of letters offers an intriguing and enlightening glimpse into his mind.
I most enjoyed seeing Tolkien speak of his Catholic faith as well as getting the window into his mind as he worked, for years and years, on writing the Lord of the Rings.
The verdict is, if you are a fan of Tolkien then this book might just be for you.
Although not for the casual reader, The Letters of J.R.R. Tolkien is a very interesting look into Tolkien's writing process, his opinions on matters ranging from Disney to the purpose of life, and the pre-internet publishing industry.I got the sense that Tolkien was a serial procrastinator when it came to writing, as he was constantly explaining to his editors why he hadn't been able to make any progress on his work, or apologizing to a friend/acquaintance for not answering their letter sooner.
Nice to know that I have something in common with the great professor!One of my favorite letters is #30, in which Tolkien beautifully eviscerates the German publishers of The Hobbit for asking him if he had any Aryan heritage.
It's not an accident this man wrote those books. The personality that emerges from the letters is remarkable and unforgettable. I particularly appreciated the remarks on moral and religious thought; they were quite foreign to me, but expanded the range of my thinking.
Wonderful insight into Tolkien's life and times.
A great book for understand much of what drive Tolkien to write, especially Middle Earth stories. He was a great correspondent and was warmly welcoming to so many ordinary people who wrote to him.
