https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/857501.Hand_Hand_Fingers_Thumb
An easy starter book for kids.
Now, I'm not opposed to having a large cast of characters, I love "12 Angry Men" and "Game of Thrones," but it's almost as though Mr. Perkins doesn't really have a sense of the inner lives of these drumming monkeys.
I don't think Mr. Perkins knows.That really only gets us through act 2, to be honest.
Just so you don't hate me I'll throw this out there — SPOILERS AHEAD: Mr. Perkins removes all the millions of monkeys drumming on drums and we end with our original character, "The Monkey," if I may.
I remember this one so well that I had to chant it aloud with a smile on my face. It's been a while. I got a couple of the dum ditty's & hum ditty's confused, but not bad after 20 years. I guess I read it A LOT for most of a decade. Cute pictures, too.Marg bought 4 of these books for the upcoming grandmonster & asked me to mail them. I had to read them first. They're in a nifty 4"x6" thick cardboard format, unlike the ones we had for our kids. Hopefully harder for little fingers to tear.
First sentence: Hand hand fingers thumb.
One hand two hands drumming on a drum.
Premise/plot: What starts out as one monkey joyfully drumming ends with millions of monkeys jamming away on their drums.
Favorite quotes: "Hello Jack." "Hello Jake." Shake hands shake hands.
Shake!Hand in hand more monkeys come.
Millions of fingers!
Millions of thumbs!
Millions of monkeys drumming on drums!
My thoughts: Everything I learned about rhythm and rhyme I learned by reading this one.
But I tend to judge the quality of all other picture books attempting rhythm with this one.
I think the book is timeless and just about perfect.
Its rhyming is fun, repetitive and catchy and a little bit silly which all means my son has loved it ever since I started reading it to him (probably when he was about 6 months old) and aged four he still loves it (and knows it off by heart).The reason it gets such a low rating is because the pictures, although great, are obviously of chimpanzees.
Chimpanzees are not monkeys they are apes.It annoys me every time I read it.
This book deserves 5 stars just from the sentimental value. It was one of two books that I bought for my daughter while she was in the womb and it was the very first book for her to become infatuated with.It is a very simple book, with a great rhythm. It's about drumming and the words perfectly mimic drumming. For target ages, my daughter still loves it and she is 4 but she started liking it pretty much immediately after birth. So, this is a great first book.
Trent loves this book so much, and we read it over and over, so I really should want to give it 4 or 5 stars, but.... GOSH DARN IT, THOSE AREN'T MONKEYS! THEY ARE APES! I'm sticking by my convictions and giving it only 3 stars!
The biological limitations of anthropoids. A hand, and another hand. Fingers on each. The thumb; the opposable thumb. An anatomy lesson for your little tommy, your little leslie and, ultimately, a primate primer, a reminder, por vous.
27 years later my kids can still recite the verses. My husband always found the last pages a disturbing image ....millions of fingers, millions of thumbs, millions of monkeys drumming on drums. A classic.
With Dr. Seuss like illustrations, the best part of this book was the rhyming rhythmic poetry that made the kids repeat every page. They added their own drumbeats by beating on the table and loved the bring colors that accompanied each page. One our whole family could enjoy.
This book gets bonus points for being my son's first favorite book (granted, he was all of 12 months old at the time). This tome's got rhythm, though--I'll give it that...
hands play fiddles zum zum zum. hand in hand more monkeys come!I hope someday my son will appreciate all the books I read to him.
My grandson loves the repetition of sounds.
I love it since I was 8 months old. Mommy sings the words like a song and I keep tapping the book with my hands or thumbs accompanying the story. I don't read it often anymore, now that I am 2 and a half, but I sure loved it for a while.
What child or adult can resist reading this rhythmic story? Love all the monkeys drumming! great rhyme, great illustrations!
I just wasn’t thrilled with the words in this book! Dum ditty dum ditty dum dum dum, I just felt kids really don’t need this word anymore with all the bullying. Time to abolish it. And I’ve yet to figure why the handkerchief and blow blow blow was brought in to a drumming session.
Brief summary - A monkey and his pals use his hands fingers and thumb to drumAnnotation - This book has a great amount of repetition and introduces body parts.Age appropriateness 3-8 yearsConnection to six early literacy skills Vocabulary - This is a good way to introduce body parts.Opinion - This is an average story but kids might like the visuals with the many monkeys drumming.
Haven't read this one in years. So cute!
We read this over and over, sometimes with our drum and tambourine and sometimes without. Great rhythm!
This was my daughter's favorite book when she was little. I must have read it hundreds of times to her. Very fun to read.
This one is way fun to read to kids. It has few words per page and is really rhythmic. Funny pictures. Love it.
funny
This is one of those rare children's books I really don't mind reading over and over and over again, because it is so wonderfully rhythmic. I could chant it in my sleep.
I loved this book when I was little. This one along with Chicka Chicka Boom Boom is a great way to read w/rhythm. My boys have all loved it as well.
Alistair (15 months) drums along to this one and wanted to read it 3 times in a row so despite myself I'm giving it a 4.
This is my toddler son's absolute favourite book. The rythm is intoxicating, the story simple, and the illustrations engaging. Recommended for every toddler under the sun.
Another of Thomas’s favorites. He likes to come up to us and hand us the book to let us know he wants to hear it. He probably has asked for it six or seven times today alone.
i like about drams and i like the word it cllad dum ditty dum ditty dum dum dum
My husband, children and I loved this book! Whenever I need a baby present, I look for this book. It is written with a rhythm, (dum ditty, dum ditty, dum, Dum, DUMM!) that when chanted with enthusiasm, can keep the attention of an 18 month old through 4 year old.Book details lists 1998 as publication date and that is probably correct for this edition, but we purchased the story in the early 1970's.
This was an instantly loved book the first moment I read it to our son who was around a year old at the time. Few years since and it is still loved and read fairly often. The book has a fun rhyming story line that get's children fully engaged. Add on fun way's of reading to the beat of the book and it will be a blast. I enjoy reading it as much as he enjoy's it as well!
