https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/134958.Elizabeth
He is also unusually good at keeping the main players, individuals and families, and their relations with one another clearly defined.This is the story of the upper classes of the Tudor era in general and of Elizabeth in particular.
It is also, appropriately enough, a history of England's conversion from Roman Catholicism to something no longer Roman and not quite Protestant.I cannot emphasize enough how fun this book was to read, how effortlessly its author instructed me.
I'll be keeping my eye open for more of Starkey's books about the Tudors!
Divine.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Just arrived from Finland through BM.This book gives an excellent biography of Elizabeth and how the transition between Catholicism to Protestantism was made in England during the 16th century.
Queen Elizabeth I is one of my favorite historical characters so I had to read this book.
I was expecting the book to be more about Elizabeth but discovered the author went on tangents about the people in her life.
I understood why Starke may have taken that route, to show she was influenced by them, especially her father, but felt he lingered too long on them with unnecessary details.
I enjoyed the insights with her relationships to her siblings, step mothers, father and how they affected her through her childhood into her adult years.
David Starkey is the man! He really brings Elizabeth to life with a respectful depiction of her reign yet he is not afraid to point out her faults (although I don't think the beheading of her cousin Mary Queen of Scots was really a fault - that slut would not quit trying to undermine Elizabeths crown!) This book makes history fun - who would have thought it?
David Starkey writes with the assumption that he is always right. He never argues his point, just states it while dismissing other historian's research. I love the subject matter, but cannot bear his tone.
There's something to be said of the feministic slant common among Elizabeth's female biographers which make this sometimes-princess, sometimes-not a sympathetic young character.
We recognise that these female biographers have done their job when we're compelled to empathise with the young Elizabeth.
Starkey's erudite points are masterfully fleshed out, eloquently phrased and expertly documented.Elizabeth's formative years of being pampered royal heiress then shunned royal bastard are satisfyingly cited as one trigger of her later infamous episodic neurosis.Her much debated time spent in Queen Catherine Parr's house is examined at length.
I find Tudor history to be fascinating.
Elizabeth I is a particularly fascinating historical figure.
This historical biography mainly concerns Elizabeth as a young woman.
Therefore we find out a huge amount about Elizabeth in the years of Edward VI’s, and Mary’s reigns.
Of course as we all know Elizabeth succeeded to the English throne, and became one of the most successful monarchs in British History.I am glad that I have read this book quite slowly, as I have enjoyed coming home every day to the English court of the 1550’s and indulging my love of Tudor history.
Wow...
for a nonfiction highly scholarly biography, this is a surprisingly excellent read.
Extensively and intimately researched.
While I have read many books on the subject, this one is the most illuminating and manages to both clarify and debunk many popularized myths about this queen and her motivations.
Starkey has done his homework and extensively quotes the principal players using their own words from speeches, letters, diaries, formal events, and so on.
Did you know that Henry the VIII's love letters to Anne Boleyn are housed in the Vatican library?
This focuses on the early life of Elizabeth Tudor, before she became queen.
Starkey boldly, unhesitatingly psychoanalyzes Elizabeth, and while I’m not sure I’m buying all of it, it makes for an interesting read.He covers the famous incidents of her youth, and explains how they helped mold her personality.
For instance, after her mother was executed, Elizabeth’s household was neglected to the point where, at age 4, she outgrew all her clothing.
One of the better,and more accessible biographies about Elizabeth I, focusing more on her life as a child and adolescent, during the reigns of her father, Henry VIII, her younger brother Edward VI, and elder sister, Mary I. Quite a bit is devoted to the scandal about Thomas Seymour, and later, Thomas Wyatt's rebellion. Recommended. Five stars overall. For the longer review, please go here:http://www.epinions.com/review/Book_E...
the author thinks very highly of himself and it comes across in his writing. slips into first person far too often - "i think" this, and "i see" that. he criticizes other biographers far too often. beyond his arrogance, it is a difficult read and his telling of courtly intrigue is dizzying at best. it is interesting to learn about elizabeth's formative years and her road to the throne, but i would have preferred to read more about her life and less about starkey's opinions on tudor life.
Wonderfully written and easy to understand, unlike most historians who over complicate and overly exaggerate or express themselves with "big words" to sound clever and full of knowledge. I love this type of biography as it's style of writing puts you in the shoes of the person in question. They write about the person like an actual human being rather than a simple case-study objectElizabeth is one of my main historical fangirly figures and her endeavors and strengths throughout her life have inspired my knowledge and increased my love of History.
A bit of background on Elizabeth's parentage is given before Starkey plunges into her pre-accession years (a perspective, he notes, that has not attracted nearly as much scholarly attention as her later, glorious years of ruling).Despite the fact that Starkey is obviously trying to write to as wide of an audience as possible, I still think this bio would be best for someone already familiar with some of the other scholarship on Elizabeth (as Starkey, rather annoyingly, spends time refuting other scholars' theories without really explaining them).
Starkey's biography of the early life of Britain's greatest Queen, Elizabeth I, reads in several places almost like a historical thriller.
He concentrates especially on the motivations of the central characters, why they did things as well as what they actually did.
Elizabeth's personality shines through.
There are two sections of colour plates that reproduce paintings so we get to see the protagonists as well as reading about them.
Starkey has revisited and reinterpreted contemporary sources and is scathing about several other historians' opinions which is amusing to read.
Well, I read about as much as I want to read. Does it count if I don't finish reading a book?If you read one biography/history of Elizabeth I, don't make it this one. Maybe this could be the fifth or sixth. The author is arguing against other historical opinions, so this book doesn't tell you a lot if you are not already very familiar with Elizabeth's life and the various interpretations of it. For example, he spends several pages explaining the conclusions we should really draw from a letter from Elizabeth to Catherine Parr.
Wonderfully written narrative. I read this book after seeing the movie Elizabeth. What an amazing period of history. David Starkey had a TV series of the same. I enjoyed this book despite my abhorrence of tyranny.
The author has feelings for his subject and it makes this a more interesting read, it flavors the history. There was a lot to of interesting politics that make such an impact on the children of Henry the VIII.
A very interesting book on Queen Elizabeth of the Tudors. I felt that I learned a lot of facts that I was not familiar with. The only problem with the book was the large amount of minutia that Starkey included in his narrative. That made it a hard read for me. Several times I stopped and said "do I want to continue with this?" But I plodded on and am glad that I finished the book.
Definitely more of an academic-type read. But Starkey is one of the top Elizabethan historians, if that's your thing.
He has three main sets of conclusions: that Elizabeth learned important lessons of statecraft from the bitter failures of her sister Mary's reign, that her attitude to religion was a sincere adherence to what evolved into High Church Anglicanism, and that her attitudes to both marriage and religion were perhaps crucially formed during her residence with her father's last wife and her second husband, Thomas Seymour.
Indeed, Seymour's appallingly intimate behaviour with his teenage stepdaughter would surely be characterised today as sexual abuse (my assessment, not Starkey's), and that must have left its traces in Elizabeth's attitude to men (and indeed women).[return]
Starkey also proceeded to knock down everything other historians said that he didn't agree with, sometimes completely without explanation, or he'd criticize them for speculating, and then go on one page later to speculate a bunch of things himself.As far as language goes, it was a relatively easy and quick read, which I do love to see in history books.
At least, it could have been quick, if Starkey's shining personality hadn't gotten in the way of things.Also, the amount of times he felt the need to praise Henry VIII in this is just irritating.
This has tripped up some other very good writers.) An intriguing read that only goes dry near the end, once Elizabeth is Queen and Starkey is wrapping up his narrative; it seems he lost interest as soon as the crown was on her head.
Fair enough, as he states point-blank that this is not another history of her reign, and I feel it's unfair to expect something that the author makes very clear is not in the pages.Points lost, however, for repeated "I" statements: "I think...", "I feel...", "I suspect..." These have no place in a factual history - period.
It's not about you, dude.Well worth the read, however, for anyone interested in Queen Elizabeth, the reigns of Henry VIII's three children, or general Tudor history.
I've read a lot of books about Elizabeth, but I think this is the best one.
It has a really strong voice, really brings out Elizabeth when faced with some conflicting depictions, and has a very strong evidential basis for the work.
My favorite thing about it is how Starkey will present all the sides of an issue (whether it's about how Elizabeth reacted to a situation, if an event actually happened, if it happened like it's popularly told, etc) and then show why one view is more plausible than the others.
Well written, this book gave some new interpretations to Elizabeth's struggles to stay alive during her sister's reign and stronger showed her as a very political thinker. The terror of living under Mary's rule, when Mary clearly wanted her removed from the succession, translated into the caution and secretiveness that stood her so well in her own reign. Starkey did his research and presented letters, reports and diaries of the time to back up his view of the early Elizabeth. He noted what some contemporaries thought of as her flaws and demonstrated how those perceived flaws worked to her advantage.
Don't play pseudo-psychologist with ME, David Starkey. Your uneducated ignorant psychobabble shines through to anyone with even a 101 class in psychology.Stick to history. And while you're at it, stick to HISTORY, and not your crazy opinion of history, with your biased ideas of who's good and who's bad, and you're conveniently leaving out details that contradict your own opinion.And BTW, despite what you and the BBC think, you are NOT Henry VIII. Get over yourself, for the love of all that is good and right.
David Starkey has become a favorite historian /writer of mine. I find his style is approachable and he makes the characters come alive. His books are well-researched and he cites sources within the text when describing controversial actions or decisions of the character. With so many books & films on Tudors, I was surprised to learn that there are many holes in documentation of that time.
This was such a good biography of Elizabeth. Most people concentrate on her reign but Starkey concentrated on her ascension and her childhood. It was so interesting to see how she interacted with her father and her multiple mothers and even her brother. She handled a lot of persecution in her life and you realize how intelligent and bold she had to be to accomplish all that she did.
Her early years were quite difficult but they made her into one of the greatest queens in history.
