https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43818.Anne_Rice_s_The_Tale_of_the_Body_Thief
If only I didn't have the mental image of Lestat - which Anne Rice did well - as homosexual, this might actually have had a spot in my favorites shelf.Lestat's experience as a human again cracked me up a bit.
I remember how much I liked the first three books but then when the rest of the books came, I was dismayed to carry on because of the gay feel of the story.
It's just that my mental image of Lestat was this hot, golden haired, Dark god whom women would gladly scratch each others' eyes out just for a bite from him.
En general me esta gustando la serie de las crónicas vampiricas, sin embargo este libro me decepciono un poco.(view spoiler)[Imaginaba que habría mas enfrentamientos entre Lestat y el ladrón de cuerpos, pero el libro trato casi en su totalidad de como Lestat intenta adaptarse a su nuevo cuerpo y a sus relaciones con David y la monja (hide spoiler)]espero que el siguiente libro no trate solo unas paginas de Lestat con el diablo y el resto sea relleno.
This was a very well told re telling of the Vampire Chronicle novel of The Body Thief in graphic for
I found this book amongst my mother's old highschool books I absolutely loved the story telling the plot development. Also would like to note that all the vampire Chronicles are good you don't need to read all of them or any of them really to be able understand the each separate story.
Anne Rice really found her narrative stride on this one. Compelling from start to finish,
It cuts out the majority of Lestat being sad and weepy and pining
The first book which I read by Anne Rice. It was this enthralling story which got me going back to the beginning. So so good.
Although I enjoyed this book the first 3 she wrote in the series were better for me. Still a very enjoyable book.
Cuando ya te has aburrido de la visa inmortal y deseas volver a ser humano, sentir la tibieza de los rayos del sol sobre tu piel, el sabor de un buen vino, el placer del sexo... Que gran relato...
This was my favorite one in the series!
Def one of the better books of the series.
Anyone who reads Anne Rice knows very well that her books are either totally awesome! Or totally terrible. There doesn't seem to be an in-between with her. Tale of the Body Theif is one of the good ones. Of all the books in the Vampire Chronicles, this one is the most "fun". It's kind of a "Freaky Friday" story, where we get to see Lestat try to cope with "life" back inside a living human body. I enjoyed it.
What happens when a vampire is given the opportunity to live a mortal life again? To taste food, feel warmth upon your skin, to enjoy carnal pleasure. To do this Lestat the vampire must trade bodies with a mortal. But being human isn't always what it's cracked up to be. Now how does Lestat get his immortal body back from someone who's relishing the powerful form he's now inhabiting? An original story concept with he flowery prose of Anne a rice.
I love Anne Rice's novels but this graphic novel left me flat. I didn't think the artwork reflected how I would have expected the vampires to appear and the graphics didn't depict anything that would add layers to the story as per other graphic novels I have read. The story seemed too bare to stand alone and in all it was a disappointing read. 1 for effort plus 1 for the numerous naked male bodies.
Once again we delve into the life of sensous Lestat with his recent craving for the ability to experience the carnal pleasures that were denied him since the 18th century, and the resulting aftermath, knowing Lestat we will be expecting a carnage, and at the same time find a place in our hearts to pity him, as we did the talented Mr Ripley.
Ann Rice is another one of my favorite authors, she is very descriptive in her novels. The Tale of The Body Thief was one of the Vampire chronicles that she wrote. I was intrigued by the way she described how Lastat learned how to achieve OBE out of body experience and how he learned to leave one body for the other and his experiences as a human again. The brat Prince , gotta love him.
I remember reading this a long time ago, just never marked it "read". I so love Anne Rice's Vampire Chronicles. I think, over time, the characters became real to me, I couldn't wait for the next book!I remember reading this, I couldn't put it down.
Loved this book as I do anything by this amazing author! This was a rish departure from the vampire chronicles. She added her famous vampires in to add to the enjoyment of the read! Highly recommended!
It was a good book. Not a favorite,but still worth the read. I love the vampire chronicles and the Mayfair witches though. Lestat drives me crazy with all the messes he gets himself into, in this book, at times I just view him as being stupid.
I read this years ago and the only thing I remember about it is the smell of cat pee. Everything else was just sort of a genre thriller without the visceral or boundary pushing touches that make a good Rice novel. Whoever compared it to the Love Boat was not far off.
i love it!!!! very funny..great book <3
Too graphic
The artwork is only mediocre, but this is a really nice, self-contained Anne Rice vampire story. I am glad I gave it my time.
This is probably my favorite of the vampire chronicles. You can't help but love Lestat.
Awesome! Exciting! Sexy! Scary! So, Anne Rice!
Interesting beginning even though I thought Lestat was an IDIOT. Ends as Vampires on the Love Boat.
Nice, fun, fast, and funny read.
The Vampire Lestat continues.
This was interesting to say the very least
Fantaseoso, pero interesante el poder cambiar de cuerpos con los Vampiros...
