https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/795486.Swift_Rivers
The story line of this books flows as smoothly and enchantingly as the Mississippi River.
Scholarly and impatient but loyal Stuart, his first real friend, that started the idea but didn't have patience enough to work it himself, struggles constantly with learning to stick to a thing to the finish.
Pierre Dumenille, the half-French, half indian river guide, who teaches the boys lessons to keep forever.
This is a strong, feeling, book, one that you finish with satisfaction at the conclusion, yet regret you're leaving friends.
The story is a simple one: young man has difficulties at home and sets out to make his fortune.
Set in the 1830s when the President was Andrew Jackson, this is primarily a story of rivermen on the Mississippi and the way logs were floated to market.
Young Chris Dahlberg from the upper Louisiana Purchase (Minnesota) acts on his friend Louis Hale's idea: he timbers some land and puts the logs in the local river and floats them to the Mississippi where they're joined to others to float to St. Louis.
After a vicious temper flare when Chris' uncle was saying cruel things about his grandfather, Chris leaves his uncle's home and spends the winter with his grandfather.
Chris is persuaded by the tempting idea of heading down the Mississippi and drive logs down the spring floodwaters to the markets of St. Louis.
When Chris starts out, he is guided by a half Indian pilot.
Both pilots use different strategies and ideas.
After fun, exciting, and some scary adventures, they finally reach their destination.
Chris returns home, and tells his grandfather of his exciting adventures along the Mississippi river.
I read this aloud as part of Sonlight Core D to my 11 year old. In his words, "That was one of the most boring books you've ever read." Well, I can't actually disagree. I enjoyed the story and we learned about river rafting, but it is cumbersome to read aloud and the detailed descriptions seemed to be told for their own sake rather than as a necessary part of the story line. Not our favorite, and not a great way for us to end the year, unfortunately.
Set in Minnesota around 1835 during the Jacksonian era, this is a story of the early history of the logging industry, when logs were floated down the Mississippi River to the markets at St. Louis, Missouri.
A somewhat simplistic kids' novel about an early, young, midwestern pioneer. Exciting, has the attitude that all people are either good or bad, with nothing in between or complex. Somewhat racist toward native Americans.
An excellent tale of adventure and intrigue that I couldn’t put down! The author does a very good job of describing the trials and tribulations of the main character all the while telling about pioneer life in the Louisiana Purchase territory. I’d recommend this book for any reader older than 8.
I liked it.
It was a little slow to get into and had longer chapters than we were used to. But my daughter really got into the story and wondered what was going to happen next. Enjoyable real life adventure.
I read of other Sonlight users not loving this book, saying it was hard to get into, but my daughter and I really enjoyed it. We couldn't wait to see where the adventure would lead next.
3.5⭐️
However, even taking the time period this was written into account, there are several passages concerning Native American tribes are overtly racist and detract from an otherwise decent book.
Example of the author’s description of Native American “savages”: “Red men are not usually watchful at night, since enemies of their own kind are seldom prone to come upon them in the dark.
One Indian is seldom willing to watch along, however.
The darkness holds terror for superstitious souls who picture the night as filled with dreaded spirits and with forces which they do not understand.
I'm so happy to be a part of this group as it gives me a chance to read great literature that I normally would not have time for.
Swift Rivers was a wonderful story, written in the language of the period (mid 1800s) with characters appropriate for our early country.
Environmental worries, I guess, came later during the Industrial Revolution.
But I still liked the book because of all the hard work and industriousness of all the early settlers.
The story gives the reader an excellent idea of our country's history and the men/women that made it what it is today.
Boring.
Also good to remember that it was written in the early 1900s.
All the tree-huggers out there would really not like this book, so it would never win an honor today.
It was also very boring, the characters weren't well developed, and as soon as you thought one was, they all but exited the book as the adventure was carried southward.
The book is about carrying logs down the river to be sold.
The author is completely unsuccessful in her attempt to make it a lot more things than that.
After reading the Windy Hill, I was excited to pick this up, but I have been sorely disappointed.
We read this as part of Sonlight's Core D homeschool curriculum. My kids enjoyed the basic story, but it was above their reading level. (And they are advanced readers.)I read it out loud to them, which helped. However, I had to stop after almost every paragraph to explain what happened. It is written in an odd way with large words. Great for vocabulary lessons, but not when every other word needs an explanation. Great book, but more suited for teens and adults.
Read aloud to my kids. The story is interesting but the structure of the writing is awkward. I found myself paraphrasing constantly throughout this book so that my kids could follow what was happening. Hopefully they picked up a bit of American history--river life and logging during the presidency of Andrew Jackson.
I read half of this with Josh, but then he wanted to stop. It's a good historical fiction about logging, and we may go back and finish later. But Lyrad started reading one of his all-time favorites to Josh (Rascal, a true story about a little raccoon), so Josh begged me to read a raccoon book to him at the same time.
This was a read aloud as part of Sonlight curriculum. Wow. This one was tough to get through. My kids, generally amicable to anything being read to them, had zero interest. I had to continually refocus all of us. Book felt about 50 pages too long, and had so many characters that only made brief appearances it was hard to keep them all straight. Maybe end of year fatigue?
Swift Rivers was written as literature for children, not popular fiction. The style may seem a bit quaint today, but it is lovely, refined, and appropriate to the era, culture, and setting. To me, it was especially refreshing to follow the story of a good, thoughtful young man who works hard and cares about others.
This is a lovely book to read if you just want a story without hard things to think about, but still a story. I thought there were a bunch of places it could be fleshed out more, but still a good book.
This was an early Newbery winner. I enjoyed it. Chris is a kindhearted young man with a good work ethic. He was forgiving, fair, honest...a very likable character. I liked his grandfather as well.
This was probably the most difficult read-aloud we did all year, but we're glad we stuck with it to the end. A worthy read, but not an easy one.
Very interesting story, just a tad too many words to tell the story.
A bit like the river itself - slow paced for most of the journey, but rapidly moving at times. I liked this story that celebrated hard work and long-term, rather than immediate, results.
Semicolon review: http://www.semicolonblog.com/?p=1030
This book is filled with exciting adventures but somehow the impression I brought away is one of peacefulness and quiet.Mostly pleasant, although some of the Indian bits made me cringe a little.
I thought this book was really good but not as good as Last Dog on Earth. That's why it's a 4 star for me.
This is a descriptive peak into the past, with lots of adventure and learning on the way.
589c9178-d203-4a1e-b6de-e00e69a2ec7b
This book had good life lessons for children but at places was a little boring. Still it was good.
