https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/213368.Spiritual_Disciplines_for_the_Christian_Life
As I calculated the time commitment that Mr. Whitney recommends, it would easily take hours every day to do the disciplines he suggests.
Mr. Whitney has written a detailed book filled with 'all you need to know' about spiritual practices and disciplines, and for that he earns high marks.
But in hindsight, I could never shake a vague sense of finger-shaking knowing that I will never be able to accomplish a fraction of what is suggested (and inferred that I must practice if I really want to know God and be obedient to Him).
Christ centered. Biblically saturated. Powerfully convicting. Read this book!
This is a great book for all believers at any stage of their life. Lots of helpful advice. I will be referring back to this one quite a bit.
"If he can do that, can you discipline yourself to read the Bible?" (31) While I am quite impressed at the passion and dedication of that man, it offers no advice or guidance on how to stir up my own passion for the Bible, no help on what to do if I lack that man's passion, and does not stir me to any action or emotion except possibly a sensation that I should perhaps feel guilty that I probably don't have that level of determination, which is muted by the fact that I feel I should definitely feel guilty that I spent the entire story sighing and rolling my eyes because I rarely feel motivated by cries of "Look at how well that person's doing, you should be more like them!"Besides that manner of annoyance, I feel like the book is a worthwhile read.
In a generation that thinks discipline is a dirty word and automatically equates "work" to legalism, Don Whitney shows us that the spiritual disciplines are the way to spiritual liberty, not bondage.
It did not leave me feeling a weight of bondage, but of great liberty and hope and greater zeal for the Word.
as I think the one I read might be distracting to younger people, with the occasional mentions of "portable stereos" and cassette tapes :)) "How often do we hear about the discipline of the Christian life these days?
5/08 This is a very good book.
Donald Whitney is a good writer and really help brings to mind spiritual disciplines that one might not have thought of as is.
However, I do think that this is a book that is better as a reference than a sit down and read it all.
I think the best way to approach the book is read about a discipline and really put it into practice and make it a habit, and then read/learn about another discipline.
1/11 Read this book again through church.
It's always hard for me to read the same book twice.
And an encouragement to improve upon my spiritual disciplines.
Whitney was careful to balance the necessity of head knowledge with heart zeal.“According to a book of the Bible written specifically to give us wisdom, one of the characteristics of a wise man or woman is a desire for learning.
In 23:12 we're commanded, “Apply your heart to instruction and your ears to words of knowledge.” No matter how much you know, especially about God, Christ, the Bible, and the Christian life, you still need to apply your heart to learn, for you haven't learned it all.
Christian, take the time and read this book. You will benefit from it.
At the end I found myself asking, "Why was I never taught this by other Christians before?" and vowing to pass some of these tips on whenever I can!Quotes from the book:"To do what God wants most, that is, to love Him with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength, and to love your neighbor as you love yourself (Mark 12:29-31), can't be done in your spare time.""Hearing and reading the Bible is the exposure to Scripture - that's needful, but it's only the starting place.
But, if you want the specifics of what the spiritual disciplines look like, or practical ways to live them out, READ THE BOOK!
A book that equips a believer in the spiritual disciplines and encourages one to pursue them diligently. I especially valued the portion on Scripture meditation and fasting, and will probably revisit this book (or portions of it) fairly regularly.
Victory doesn't come without struggle.So I think if that chapter was first, it might help people keep referring to it as they read the rest of the book; not grow quite as overwhelmed thinking that "there's no way I can change all this" and maybe talking with other believers about the struggle and growth and disciplines that we all are called to.Very good though, very convicting; would recommend to everyone, I think, and will probably try to read again in just a few years or less.
Or read a chapter a month and try to work on one thing for a while?
He jumps straight in with the first chapter explaining what he thinks (based on scripture) the spiritual disciplines are and why they are important.
There are 10 disciplines and he devotes two chapters to the first, and then one each to the others - Reading the Bible, Prayer, Worship, Evangelism, Serving, Stewardship, Fasting, Silence and Solitude, Journaling, and Learning.
The others, many people are familiar with, but in the American Evangelical church, things like fasting and solitude sound a little too Catholicy, so I’ve never really heard them taught.
I am glad he realized this drawback and sought to correct it, but I think the revisions in this area often amounted to dropping in a "gospel paragraph" at the beginning or end of some chapters that functions as a momentary qualification of sorts: "Now let's remember the gospel now...
I think David Mathis's *Habits of Grace* models this better.
I really enjoyed/was rebuked by the chapter on service, and I think many Christians would benefit from reading his chapters on Scriptural meditation and prayer.One more limitation: this book largely majors on *personal* spiritual disciplines.
If you want a better balance between the need for both personal and corporate spiritual discipline or means/habits of grace, I would once again recommend Mathis.
This is probably the go-to book on the basics of spiritual disciplines (prayer, bible intake, fasting, silence, journaling, etc).. I appreciate how biblically saturated it was, the abundance of Puritan authors for illustrations and many specific applications. I also love his continual emphasis that the disciplines are for godliness and Christlikeness.. God is not against effort, only against earning (Willard). Loved it. So convicted and encouraged.
While it has a good amount of helpful, practical tips on things like bible-reading and prayer, in the end the book always left me feeling either bored or guilty, and I’m still sorting through why.
There’s a different tone to it – something colder and less impactful than a writer like Foster or Merton – but I’ve had trouble figuring out if it’s a stylistic difference, or if there’s a more substantial difference in how Whitney frames our relationship with God.Whitney, from the very beginning, is intensely focused on things we’re doing to push forward our sanctification.
Increíble :)Pocas veces termino un libro deseando que no se termine. Éste fue uno de ellos. Don Whitney recopiló y explicó muy a detalle las disciplinas espirituales vitales que un cristiano necesita. ¡Todos los que amen a Cristo deberían leerlo!
Excellent overview of the spiritual disciplines. He refrains from being mystical or overly ambitious on the effects of spiritual disciplines, but instead gives a biblical and measured overview of each one with appropriate application. Every Christian needs to read this.
This was a well written and encouraging book on the spiritual disciplines. Whitney does a great job of balancing between the practical aspects of what we do and the spiritual aspects of what God does in our sanctification. I would recommend this book to any and all Christian readers.
Excellent book for the topic. Great vision and explanation of the purposes of the disciplines, excellent illustrations and stories, very practical and wise, and encouraging and compelling. I think all Christians would benefit from reading this, especially in our undisciplined age.
This book does several things well:First, it functions as a good reference tool.Second, Whitney's desire for other believers to grow shines brightly through every word of this book.Third, nothing mentioned in this book is harmful, and all is helpful for Christian growth.However, the way the premise is worked out in these pages leave much to be desired.First, the introduction clearly dichotomizes "biblical disciplines" and "non-biblical disciplines" stating that the book will focus on the former.
What I most loved about his book on prayer was that it was passionately practical, extremely straightforward, and ENCOURAGING.
I wouldn't say I felt encouraged or supported after reading the book.
I wouldn't go so far as to say that Whitney makes the disciplines an aspect of earning one's salvation, or earning God's attention or approval.
But surely there is a more reader-friendly approach to spiritual disciplines to help believers learn and grow.You might get the impression, I didn't like or enjoy the book.
I loved his two chapters on Bible reading.
So what does the book cover besides bible-reading and prayer?
This leads Whitney to state that it's the same in the Christian life that we were predestined to be conformed to Christ, but that also comes with discipline.The book it's centered on 1 Timothy 4:7 " discipline yourself for the purpose of godliness", and that discipline without direction is drudgery.The book is spilt into the following chaptersBible intakePrayerWorshipEvangelismServingStewardshipFastingSilence and solitudeJournalingLearningPerseverance in the disciplinesEach chapter begins with general information of each discipline followed by it's benefits, and tips for application.What I enjoyed the most was the quotes used, from the puritans, Jonathan Edwards, George Whitefield, David brainerd, Charles spurgeon, to contemporary preachers today like j.i packer, r.c sproul, and John piper.I do believe in having a disciplined life.
If we are undisciplined, we will never become the people that God wants us to be.We are encouraged, in the Bible, to exercise Spiritual Disciplines.1 Peter 4:7 says: Have nothing to do with irreverent, silly myths.
Rather train yourself for godliness.The disciplines that he discusses in detail are: Bible intake, prayer, worship, evangelism, serving, stewardship, fasting, silence and solitude, journaling, and learning.Biblical intake includes hearing, reading, studying, memorizing, meditating, and applying.I have never done some of these disciplines before, but I am willing to try them to continue my Spiritual growth.
He says "There will be no marked growth in Christian holiness if we do not labor to overcome our natural disinclination towards secret spiritual exercises."This book could be life-changing!
It surprised me that I enjoyed this book so much.
The spiritual disciplines are basic, but there is great depth in the explanation for each discipline.
I enjoyed the examples taken from journals from a variety of people.
Some were well-known to me, others were not.I would recommend taking it slow and reading one discipline a week if it seems overwhelming.
If not, read it straight through.
I found it interesting enough to read straight through, but I took notes as I read and shared what I read with a friend.
Sounding-board friends are the best and talking helps retain what you learn.
Excellent, challenging read. Even the most seasoned Christian good in some areas will find something to build on.SECOND READ-THROUGH: I actually found more evidence for encouragement this time, after about eight years. Perhaps I am making progress in holiness. Given millennia, I shall, by the grace of God, be conformed to the image of Christ. As for the author He uses in this text, he has the ability to confront with sometimes hard truth in words we will nevertheless hold close and weave into our thinking.
Excellent resource for those wanting to grow in Christ. The author clarifies many aspects of Spiritual Disciplines from studying scripture to being a lifelong learner. He also includes questions and activities to get one started. The only difficulty I had with the book was the length of the chapters. In my opinion they could have been written more concisely. However, I would recommend this book to any disciple of Jesus.
Started this book in 2016 as part of our LifeGroup study. Missed finishing the last three chapters in March/April as I had travel. Picked this up in December to finish it off for the year. A very very good book about spiritual disciplines. If you are a visual learning, he provides great illustrations and word pictures to drive home key points. It's not a book to rush through though, but an excellent primer on each of the spiritual disciplines.
I started this book a couple of years ago and got sidetracked halfway through. When I picked it back up a few weeks ago, I wondered why it took me so long. This is a great little book to introduce a much overlooked topic in today's church culture. Whitney offers practical advice on how to get started.
If you want to be a true follower of Christ and/or are looking for practical ways to follow His word in order to be a stronger more devout Christian than this is a must read. Not only does is clearly and easily go thru what the disciplines are but also gives practical applications on how to involve them in your life.
This is a MUST read, re-read, and... re-read kind of book! ;)
