https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11297.Norwegian_Wood
What if somewhere inside me there is a dark limbo where all the truly important memories are heaped and slowly turning into mud?...the thought fills me with an almost unbearable sorrow.”To which he adds, “Because Naoko never loved me.”“Norwegian Wood”The Beatles song features throughout the novel.It’s a favourite of Naoko’s and Reiko plays it frequently on her guitar.For much of the novel, the lyrics could describe Toru’s relationship with Naoko and his other love interest, Midori:“I once had a girl, or should I say, she once had me.”There is a sense of sadness in the sexual subject matter of this novel, almost as if it's been written in a minor key.Reiko sums up the Beatles pretty accurately, “Those guys sure knew something about the sadness of life,” she says, before adding, “and gentleness”, almost as an afterthought.She Never Loved MeI love all of this talk of love and longing and loss and loneliness and labyrinths (all the “L” words).Not everybody feels the same, though.You should have heard my wife, F.M. Sushi, when she noticed my tears and stole a look at what I was reading.“Why don’t these people just stop moaning and get a life.
How this book became one of Murakami's most famous and popular baffles me.
In fact, when asked about it in an interview, Murakami himself said that he was puzzled by its popularity and that it really isn't what he wants to be known for.
Murakami deals with depression much more thoughtfully and insightfully in The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle.
The worst thing about this book's popularity is that it may be some readers' introduction to Murakami, which would very likely lead them to form a negative opinion of him and not care to explore his other works, which is just awful.
There are a lot of "I don't know, I'm just a girl" moments but I reaaaaally don't want to have to open the book again and go look for them.I could go on and on about how odious Naoko and Reiko were but this review is getting really long and all I've been talking about are the characters.The plot, in all its boring and barely existing glory:Toru Watanabe runs into Naoko, the girlfriend of Kizuki, his high school best friend (who had suicided a couple of years previous), and realises she has a hawt body.
We do have, as usual in Murakami, a cat, mention of a mysterious well, and western music, especially pop music such as that of the Beatles.
I’d say the two main themes are sex and suicideThe main characters are a young man and a young woman.
At times both characters say they have word-searching sickness – the inability to put their feeling into words.
He feels responsible for the girl in the sanitarium and can’t make the break to commit to another young woman that he has fallen in love with.
Murakami was in college in Japan at this time.
I told her I didn't and crawled off to sleep in the bathAnd when I awoke, I was alone, this bird had flown So I lit a fire, isn't it good, Norwegian wood.-	The BeatlesHaruki Murakami’s novel Norwegian Wood is a love story: on author’s own confession, “a straight, simple story” quite unlike the type of fiction he is well known for.
And I found that while the story was straight, it was anything but simple.The novel is one bunch of impressions.
Life becomes complicated and the prospect of the future feels like a brutal betrayal of one who is desperately clinging to you.
Life is fickle, though true love isn’t.
Read them, hear them and feel them.Cue the music: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eeQks...Norwegian Wood (This Bird Has Flown) by the Beatles.
If you have read the book read through the lyrics and ponder the actions Naoko takes towards the end of the story, what she does and why she does it seemed a little selfish to me at first.
Norwegian Wood is a novel that feels like it should never have ended.
Seems very dark and depressing, but the light comes out at the very end and you can see the sunshine through the clouds.
I've never read a book like this and to be honest, I'm not sure I ever want to read another one.
At the very end, as you reach the top, you're bone weary and exhausted, both mentally and physically, but suddenly you can see above the clouds and it's so bright that your eyes hurt and the whole mountain suddenly looks different...you suddenly feel renewed...the world you thought was gloomy and gray is suddenly bright and new....and beautiful.....
There would be like 5 paragraphs on the woman and then 1 sentence were it would say something along the lines of, "she took me in her hand and I came".GIVE ME A BREAK!!!It seemed like an exercise in writing (hmmmm, what would it be like to write from the females perspective) more than a contributor factor to the story.#2.
The girls in this book were all needy, dysfunctional, emotional or detached but sexy as all get out while the male was unsentimental, level headed and also sexy.#3.
On the night of Naoko's 20th birthday, she feels especially vulnerable and they have sex, during which Watanabe realizes that she is a virgin.
Afterwards, Naoko leaves Watanabe a letter saying that she needs some time apart and is quitting college to go to a sanatorium.
Midori reciprocates his feelings, and their friendship grows during Naoko's absence.
He writes a letter to Reiko, asking for her advice about his conflicted affections for both Naoko and Midori.
After about a month of wandering, he returns to the Tokyo area and gets in contact with Reiko, who leaves the sanatorium to come visit.
I want to inhale the pages of this book, grind them up, and snort them right up my nose!
I want in placed directly in my brain, my very Bloodstream!
Murakami's words make me feel just like Nicole Kidman in that scene in Moulin Rouge where she is rolling around on that fur rug in her negligee, moaning and writhing in pleasure and saying 'Yes!
Yes!
Dirty words!
Naughty words!' Although Murakami's words aren't so much naughty and dirty as they are prismatic and mysterious.
I wish I could weave his sentences into a rug to roll around on.
This is, by no means, a romance book - no offence meant.
I cannot suffer to attach such a tacky word on this book.
Oh, what do I know, it IS a romance book.
The one humanitarian thing that Watanabe does, in the hospital, attending upon Midori's dad, is hefty in its purity.
People who still are heroes.There is the question of death lingering throughout the book.
The people who don't feel real, such as Midori, are still full of a palette of colours.
The best thing is that few people notice that beneath this seamless flow of words, lie a lot of twists.
Then I hit a four-day Reader’s Block (also precipitated by problems in my personal life, but I’ll save those for Oprah) and read nothing.
I called a librarian and explained the problem.
Those librarians know what they are talking about .
walking towards the bookstore where Murakami’s Norwegian Wood sits on the bestseller list, to be read by people-too-busy-to-read-books who think this is the cutting edge of contemporary literature, and in translation too, so twice as chic and clever, despite nothing happening except a dull student who thinks he’s Holden Caulfield hanging out with a bland-but-mysterious possible lover, then a clichéd playboy who introduces him to casual sex, then another girl who almost shakes the novel back into life but no, zzzzzzzzzzzzz.
“If you only read the books that everyone else is reading, you can only think what everyone else is thinking.”  CAUTION: This isn't a love storyThis was my first introduction into the world of Murakami. This isn't a sappy love story as some Murakami fans would like to tell you. Haruki Murakami himself was baffled by the popularity that this story achieved due to the novel's departure from the usual surrealist themes that are associated with his novels. The fame achieved through Norwegian Wood h
This isn't a sappy love story as some Murakami fans would like to tell you.
Haruki Murakami himself was baffled by the popularity that this story achieved due to the novel's departure from the usual surrealist themes that are associated with his novels.
The fame achieved through Norwegian Wood had so profound an effect on the writer that he had to leave Japan and traveled across Europe and lived in the USA for some time, which resulted in the writing of 
The prime themes of Norwegian Wood are loneliness, existential ennui, depression and suicide.
I started reading this book back in February but I think timing was not right and we didn’t click. I stopped after 20%, and also I thought it was weird with all its sex talk, alcoholism, and suicides. Fast forward to June and my buddy said she was reading and I had to read this, at least give it a try before finally ditching it. I wanted to have something in my defense when I tell my group of friends that why I didn’t like this book (he is super popular among my friends). "But who can say what's
My experience tells me that we get no more than two or three such chances in a life time, and if we let them go, we regret it for the rest of our lives."
This beautiful coming of age of story analyse the love triangle of Toru, Naoko, and Midori.
Though the story is told from Toru’s PoV but it was the girls i.e. Naoko and Midori that won my heart.
While Naoko despite having everything depicts the downfall of life, Midori after having a difficult childhood and teen years shines like a bright ray of hope.
This book is essentially about two things: sex and death.
And not in a good way either.But it’s also a very powerful book.
I'm all alone and it's cold and dark, and nobody comes to save me."In the end, I don’t know what to say about this book.
I know that it isn’t.Am I glad I read this book?
And having finished, I am left without the feeling that this was a must-read book.
When I finished the book, I ended up wishing I had never read it.
While it wasn’t the worst book I’ve read, I can honestly say that I hate it now.
‘death is not the opposite of life, but an innate part of it.’ imagine you are standing in the middle of the road. to the left is the past, lined with death. to the right is the future, paved with life. sometimes we become so focused on choosing one way over the other that we forget how interconnected the two are, that we cant go in one direction without having previously come from the other. there are a lot of themes/components to this novel (so much so that each deserve their own review), but
there are a lot of themes/components to this novel (so much so that each deserve their own review), but the one that most profoundly resonated with me was murakami’s ability to convey what it means to be broken by heartache and how to cling onto life; how you can be in love with the past, but also drawn to a provocative glimpse of the future.
but even the damaged can remember, even the broken can hope.
john, you are the reason murakami is now in my life.
Murakami never disappoints and always writes with a poetic richness that leaves almost every line hanging with symbolic possibility, loved it!
You really get to love the characters that Murakami creates which I also felt with his other novel The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle.
The book title if you are wondering is taken from a Beatles track 'Norwegian Wood' which is one of the novel's characters favourite songs.There is a movie adapted from this book which is worth checking out, that was what gave me the incentive to read this book during April instead of 'Kafka on the Shore' of which i was more eager to read before this title.
Thanks to the movie release prompting me, turned out was one excellent story of Love and Loss.
But the changes that came were just two-dimensional stage sets, backdrops without substance or meaning.I trudged along through each day in its turn, rarely looking up, eyes locked on the never-ending swamp that lay before me, planting my right foot, raising my left, planting my left foot, raising my right, never sure where I was, never sure I was headed in the right direction, knowing only that I had to keep moving, one step at a time.”I'd been waiting for a book like this all my life.
Turns out I can't find a SINGLE fuck to give. It takes forever to start, the characters are bland and absolutely unrealistic, they don't sound real, the sex is so unhealthy and weird and awkward, the narrator is pretentious as fuck, the dialogues are painful, and the plot -- huh, wait, there's no plot.So yeah. Big, fat DNF.
Toru, the lead, reads Magic Mountain while visiting a sanatorium; he makes friends by talking about The Great Gatsby; he spends a late-night reading Hermann Hesse; most pertinently to the plot, he is a lover of John Updike, particularly The Centaur.
There’s a fan theory that makes a lot of sense that suggests that Reiko – the woman who tells the pedophilia story – is a liar, and that the letter Toru sends her is used to convince Naoko to kill herself.
This is apparently the Murakami book that "everyone" in Japan has read, and disaffected protagonist Toru Watanabe is apparently a Holden Caulfield-esque figure for a lot of Japanese youth.
To me, though, the book less reflects Catcher in the Rye than it predicts Zach Braff's Garden State, an ode to a time in life when the big choices seem so big that you don't end up making them at all, and find yourself instead drawn to the safety and comfort of nostalgia and memory.Though it's set in Japan, and the late '60s, it has a universal emotional current that doesn't feel dated one bit.
A cycle where words rain, feelings gush like a river towards the ocean called life, and the ocean hides the abyss of uncertainty.
To me, he felt like a mid way between the protagonist of Camus' Outsider and Holden Scholfield."But the fool on the hill,Sees the sun going down,And the eyes in his head,See the world spinning 'round."There is a surreal feeling hinting at an underlining, hidden meaning or information whenever Murakami explains or describes even the mundane things.
Sadly for Naoko, Kizuki, and Toru, this phantom enveloped them at such an early stage in their lives suffocating their already fragile transition to adulthood, well, that’s for those of them who were able to reach that stage.Norwegian Wood is a story of people broken by pain.
Sometimes there is no hope, because life is unfair, because life is sorrowful, because life is surreal.Sometimes we lose, even when we try so desperately to hold on.“Clutching these faded, fading, imperfect memories to my breast, I go on writing this book with all the desperate intensity of a starving man sucking on bones.”This is a story filled with melancholy, with pain, with regret, and some short bursts of fleeting romance.
By this point, I've read several Haruki Murakami books.
Frankly, I like the convoluted twists and turns, the improbable histories and even the talking cats.
One of his earlier novels, Norwegian Wood is well-written and has a fairly straightforward plot.
It also had that reflective quality I like.
So I knew I was reading Murakami, but I wanted the protagonist to look up into the sky and see two moons or have some other reality bleed into our own reality.
Yes, it's Murakami.
This might even be a novel that's preferable to some readers.
However, I prefer later novels like 1Q84 and the Windup Bird Chronicle.

Sogni, ideali, progetti magari folli, irrealistici: ma chi può dire che la realtà sia da preferire al sogno?Ho fatto di tutto per prolungare la lettura, ma a un certo punto sono per forza di cose arrivato alla fine, anche se avevo già ricominciato a leggerlo dalla prima pagina.Ho messo su le canzoni dei Beatles a oltranza.Ho sentito profumo di Jules et Jim e tanto tanto di Truffaut, mai abbastanza rimpianto.Ho avuto la sensazione che non stessi davvero leggendo, ma che ci fosse Toru Watanabe a raccontarmi questa storia, un lungo magnifico racconto diretto solo a me.
Later additions to the cast include a non-conformist and exuberant girl in Toru’s drama class and an elderly lady musician with psychological issues, Reiko Ishida.Since Toru Watanabe is kind of bland and generic as a main character, most of the charm, the tension and the change in the novel are provided by these secondary characters and the impact they have on Toru’s emotional development.Naoko is sensitive and vulnerable, definitely marked by the people around her who committed suicide, unable to adapt to the realities of the world.
I hear it’s atypical Murakami: no magic realism, no noir.What a strange book this is, comprised of simple, unshowy sentences, lots of muted emotions and understatement.
It’s about enjoying the view.There’s a mournful, elegiac feel to it, right from the beginning, when the 37-year-old writer, Toru (the book feels autobiographical but I don’t think it is) looks back on his intense relationship 20 years earlier with his friend Naoko.For a long time, Naoko, Toru and Kizuki were inseparable, and then Kizuki (view spoiler)[died.
(hide spoiler)]In fact, Murakami plays with chronology a lot, and I think it’s this structure, this gradual accretion of details, that has a cumulative emotional effect.
You luxuriate in the richness of its beauty and marvel at the tranquility it offers you.Haruki Murakami's Norwegian Wood evokes exactly similar kind of emotions in the reader.There are some books you read, which leave you with stories-bitter, exciting, adrenaline-driven, romantic, depressing or grisly.
But here's an attempt anyway.This is a beautifully crafted, sombre but incredibly sensual tale of unfulfilled love where the central characters are, in all essence, broken individuals.In a most indolent manner, the book begins with our narrator Toru Watanabe, catching the strains of an orchestral version of The Beatles' 'Norwegian wood' on a flight to Hamburg and beginning to reminisce about a certain girl named Naoko, from the days of his youth in Tokyo.
الموت موجود لا بوصفه نقيضا للحياة بل بوصفه جزءا منهارغم انك تستطيع أن تتنبأ بكل أحداث الرواية و رغم أنها أحداث عادية جدا و لا يتوافر فيها عنصرا السريالية و الإبهار الذين تميز بهما موراكامى إلا أنك لا تكف أبدا عن القراءة و تتمنى ألا يقاطعك أيا كان و يخرجك من مودككأنك تبحر في نهر النيل في أجواء ربيعية فلا أمواج و لا مفاجآت و لا تقلبات بحرية بعكس كافكا على الشاطئ التي لم نرى فيها شواطئ أبداالشىء الظريف أننى خارج من قراءة تشيكوف لقراءة موراكامى و لذلك فقدت الإحساس بالأسماء لغرابتها و صعوبة نطقها فلم أعد أحفظ أي اسم أو حتى أركز فيه و أصبحت أتعرف على الأشخاص بما يشبه طريقة برايل ...
