https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15159.Absolute_Power
I read this some 15 years ago and it's a must for all lovers of thriller and sinister suspense books.It's an adrenaline filled read, starting from the first scene when Luther, a petty thief, witnesses the POTUS committing murder. Thereon, it's a race to ensure he does not become the next victim. Absolute Power and The Winner are, undoubtedly, some of Baldacci's best work.
This is probably my favourite of Baldacci's novels. Absolute Power is slick, swift and daring in its plot of corruption, murder, litigious attorneys and the dark side to wealth and cash.
The quiet neighborhood was no more.Forget, for a moment, the clumsy use of the passive voice in the first sentence, and focus instead on the bizarre description of three people as "three pairs of eyes." Not only is this unnecessary, it leads to the possibility of unintentional humor in the second sentence--"In another minute they were inside"--since one can interpret this as six disembodied eyes floating into the house.
Saying that "The quiet neighborhood was no more" makes it sounds as if the neighborhood has been incinerated by a hydrogen bomb.Baldacci's dialogue is bad, too.
Is that the idea Baldacci wishes to convey?
YouTube movie trailer🍿 Movie with Clint Eastwood  A Virginia Burglar, Luther Whitney(66 - Clint Eastwood in the movie) made a surveillance & break into the Sullivan family's rich home. US President, Alan Richmond(40 - Gene Hackman in the movie) takes drunk Christine Sullivan to her house for sex. From a closet in her house, Luther watches them fight, Alan's slashed with letter opener & Christine's killed by 2 Secret Service men, Tim Collin & Bill Burton. Gloria Russell(37), President
Movie with Clint Eastwood 
A Virginia Burglar, Luther Whitney(66 - Clint Eastwood in the movie) made a surveillance & break into the Sullivan family's rich home.
US President, Alan Richmond(40 - Gene Hackman in the movie) takes drunk Christine Sullivan to her house for sex.
From a closet in her house, Luther watches them fight, Alan's slashed with letter opener & Christine's killed by 2 Secret Service men, Tim Collin & Bill Burton.
Gloria Russell(37), President Chief of Staff took the "bloodstained" letter opener, Luther escaped with evidence.
Can Gloria testify against president?
I think this may not be a 'great' novel and has probably been panned by those far more astute than I, but I loved it.
I was about 100 pages into in when I started on my trip of 1 one hour flight, 1 one hour layover and 1 five hour flight.
It totally kept my interest until I finished the last page as we landed at my home airport.
A veteran burglar chooses the wrong mansion to rob on the wrong night and witnesses the President of the United States trying to kill his sex partner and his secret service agents finishing the job.
Meh. Relatively quick-paced action, clichéd kind of mystery thriller crime guns Yank stuff. The distraction I needed but nothing more substantial. For what it is it is pretty much a 5-star thing, but in my opinion it is hardly that.
"Absolute Power" illustrates what it is I like best about David Baldacci's books: the perfect balance and blend of action and storyline.
Rare is the storyteller that can capture the attention of my military fiction loving - action-craving husband, and at the same time provide enough compelling plot and character development to have me turning pages long into the night.With the exception of his "Camel Club" series (if you haven't read them - run - go - find them now), "Absolute Power" is my favorite Baldacci book.
There is a little love story thrown in, perhaps to provide a moment or two for a reader to catch a quick breath.
Welp, I finally got around to reading the book that started it all.
After roughly 25(?) years, I read this book and it didn't disappoint.The story is a bit dull by today's standards but given its context, it came out during the Clinton era, I think it is quite courageous and interesting.
I felt a bit let down by the ending though.
I am not getting into spoilers but let's just say that when you read it, you will be wondering what the purpose of the third act was.Anyway, it is the journey that matters and Absolute Power does not disappoint.
This was a real page turner I couldn't put it down, as with all political thrillers they can be difficult to follow at times and this was no exception but the story was brilliant and I really enjoyed it. I'd seen the film many years before and could only remember bits of it so not sure how much it ties to the book but I know I did enjoy watching it. I would recommend this book, it is quite long but powerful and a real eye opener into the world of Americal presidential politics.
I loved this book, it grabbed me from the start and made me want to continue reading. A well-crafted story, strong characters that are believable and easy to visualise. An interesting story line that is different to the usual thrillers. Lots of twists and turns and worth the read.
Third, the story-line has so many holes--which demonstrates Baldacci's lack of knowledge on the topics he's writing about; I didn't buy so many of the story elements; for example, in describing the way Jack the lawyer got a big deal at his law firm, his explanations were entirely superficial and could have been written by anyone who was not a lawyer, or a business person, and who had not done ANY research on the topic.
In ALL the details he provided, about law, the White House, police procedure, etc, Baldacci tried to obfuscate his lack of expertise in opaque and fuzzy dialogue, but in the end, I was left feeling that I learned nothing from his descriptions.Rarely do I feel less literate after reading a book, but that's how I feel after Absolute Power...
REVIEW OF AUDIOBOOK; DECEMBER 4, 2015Narrator: Scott BrickI was thrilled by this book right up to 70%.
"hero" moments - those scenes where the hero comes to the rescue and the audience claps (at least, in Asia back in the 60s) or the US cavalry finally came.
As a member of the audience, I must feel as if the hero is winning, even if bad things happen to him or the villain looks like he's winning.
In Absolute Power, I felt (in the last 25%) let down by the fact that there were no clap-worthy hero moments and the book whimpered to its ending in the pedestrian epilogue.
America এর পরেসিডেনট নিঃসনদেহে বরতমান দুনিয়াতে সবচেয়ে কষমতাধর বযকতি হিসাবে সবীকৃত সেটা আসল দুনিয়াতেই হোক আর ফিকশনের দুনিয়াতেই হোক।কষমতা এমন এক জিনিস যেটা যোগযা মানুষকে করে শকতিশালী কিনতু অযোগয মানুষকে দূরবল। কষমতার অপবযবহার এর ফলাফল কি মূলত সেটাই এই বইতে দেখানো হয়েছে। বইটার একটা সমসযা হল মনে রাখার মত কোন একশন নাই, একক কোন বীরতব নাই । কিনতু কাহিনী গতিশীল আবার খুব যে টেনে যে রেখেছে তেমন ও না। সব কিছু মিলিয়ে ২বার পড়ার পর মোটামুটি মানের থরিলার লেগেছে।
America এর প্রেসিডেন্ট নিঃসন্দেহে বর্তমান দুনিয়াতে সবচেয়ে ক্ষমতাধর ব্যক্তি হিসাবে স্বীকৃত সেটা আসল দুনিয়াতেই হোক আর ফিকশনের দুনিয়াতেই হোক।ক্ষমতা এমন এক জিনিস যেটা যোগ্যা মানুষকে করে শক্তিশালী কিন্তু অযোগ্য মানুষকে দূর্বল। ক্ষমতার অপব্যবহার এর ফলাফল কি মূলত সেটাই এই বইতে দেখানো হয়েছে। বইটার একটা সমস্যা হল মনে রাখার মত কোন একশন নাই, একক কোন বীরত্ব নাই । কিন্তু কাহিনী গতিশীল আবার খুব যে টেনে যে রেখেছে তেমন ও না। সব কিছু মিলিয়ে ২বার পড়ার পর মোটামুটি মানের থ্রিলার লেগেছে।
Somehow I missed this book when I started reading Baldacci. I am glad I saw it on Goodreads! It was a page turner from the start to the end. If you haven't read it,put it on top of your "to read" list!
I have read a lot of Baldacci’s books.
Like I’ve come to expect from him, the plot was fast paced and ever expanding.
The scope and, dare I say depravity, of the lengths to which people will go to in the book is fantastical, yet in line with the plot.
While I didn’t like it as much as his later novels, I still feel like his writing is engagingly descriptive and entertaining.
What I did not like, however, was the crass sexual content and language.
I’ve come to expect language from Baldacci (sadly) but I felt like this book was much more descriptive (content wise) than his later books.
I also didn't care of all of the bad language in it.
I know that is lame to some and that sometimes that type of language is used to define a character, but it shouldn't be every character.Spoiler alert:The part of this book I disliked the most is the lack of Luther being in it.
And then, about half way through, Luther gets taken out.
What if Luther had escaped to save his life or if the assassin had been caught, or at least ALMOST caught?
I'll be trying some other of his books and checking out the movie for this one.
Not sure how I missed David Baldacci's first book, ABSOLUTE POWER!
A career thief witnesses a horrific crime involving the U.S. President.From the mansion  in Virginia, the sexual scandal, passion turned violent, a burglar behind a wall.
A Political Crime Thriller!Many of you are aware  I am a huge David Baldacci fan; however, I began my reading, with his newer, more recent books-- always anxiously awaiting the next in the series.
ABSOLUTE POWER (1996) First Novel THE WINNER (1998)WISH YOU WELL (2001)THE CAMEL CLUB (2005)MEMORY MAN (2015)When reviewing  my own reading list, I had not read and purchased the audible books.
Having heard good things about Baldacci but never read him, this seemed promising...It was disappointing.
The reader watches the crime occur and then endures 900 pages of characters stumbling to figure out what we already know.
The characters are flat and stereotypical.
No one evidently taught the author the writing trick of "show, don't tell" because he tells everything, from breast size to car interior to what dishes are in the sink.
Curious about the Clint Eastwood movie though.Edit: And there's one other thing.
For instance, a character in this novel is Seth Frank.
Authors especially should be more creative.
This is the book that got David Baldacci started in his writing career and for a first book I thought it was his best.
I'd seen the movie Absolute Power with Clint Eastwood then I'd decided to read the book and I thought the book was a lot better.
It follows the same plot line as the movie but it has many differences in it.
It's about a long time thief named Luther Whitney who is in the middle of robbing a rich couple's home and he witnesses a murder and the man involved with it is the President of the United States.
Pure power of a well executed idea.
I first read this when it was first released and I loved it so much.
I love the Clint Eastwood movie version of the story where he, wisely, chops out the entire law firm subplot and makes it an adventure / mystery set in the halls of power.
It is in essentials a tale of an any man opposing the very rich, the very powerful and coming out on top.
It is a rejection of what we today call 'The Swamp" of DC where power and prestige and access are the only things that matter.
I spotted a 20th Anniversary edition of Baldacci's first book in my local library and realised that I had never read it (although I had seen the Clint Eastwood film)A well constructed plot idea in the first place and well written for a first novel, the book is probably a little too long and the ending does not really build to a crescendo, so 4 stars for me not quite 5
Weer een nieuwe schrijver die op mijn lijst staat kende hem niet maar vond het boek goed.
Baldacci has a gift for writing ans this story delivered. Right off the start we have, Luther Whitney, a career break-in-artist trapped inside a secret room, watching as the President of the United States and a woman start to make love. While Whitney waits for an opportunity to escape, the passion turns deadly between the two lovers. Witnessing a brutal murder, Whitney finds himself running for his life as the president of the United States, a man with Absolute Power, will stop at nothing to keep his secret hidden from the world.
I did not enjoy the hopeless, helpless, anxious, unlucky, victim feel for most of the book.
I also had problems with the narrator.REVIEWER’S OPINION:Bad things keep happening to good guys.
The bad guys kept outsmarting the good guys.
Mitch the good guy in The Firm was a victim against powerful people.
Also the detective was not smart enough and trusted the wrong people which caused more bad things to happen.The author used a plot device I don’t like.
The bad guy says to a good guy, if you do this, I’ll kill your daughter.
Ending: Bad guys get caught.
I have read several books by Baldacci, but this one seemed different.
Also, there were scenes it the story that did not have a great deal of significance with the story line.The book started out with a long time thief, Luther Witney, robbing the mansion of a wealthy billionaire.
In short, Luther is killed and Jack teams up with a homicide detective to clear Luther's name and find out who killed the billionaire's wife.
But, because the secret service is involved, he keeps running into brick walls and the plot thickens.I enjoyed the book.
In my opinion, the book is enjoyable and worth reading.
The President of the country uses all his resources to cover up a murder blamed on a witness whose identity is unknown to him, but he knows he is out there. He has the loyalty of his protectors if not their respect. Mingled into the story is the witness's daughter and her ex fiancee , their relationship, and the relationship between the father and daughter. It is an easy read but I never identified with any of the characters which almost always prevents me from getting lost in a book.
This is the first David Baldacci book that I've read and it won't be my last.
The premise for the story was unique with Luther Whitney, a career burglar, inadvertently witnessing the president of the United States sleeping with, then beating the wife of a friend.
The president's aides made every effort to cover their tracks and they felt that the president of the United States would be beyond suspicion..
Eventually, lack of evidence against the president and his inner circle seemed to indicate that they would not be caught.
Yet, David Baldacci provided clever and plausible new evidence that made sense once it was revealed.
My first David Baldacci. I didn't realize, until after the first page, that it was a movie I'd seen several times - and loved! So it was difficult seeing the characters NOT as the actors - I failed. Rushed through the book as it is a page turner. Howeverrrrrr, strange for me to say this, but I preferred the movie *shock* *horror*!
Having read some of Mr. Baldacci's later works, I was curious to go back a couple of decades to an earlier novel.Overall, Absolute Power is a serviceable political thriller.
That said, the plot brings me to my second complaint - one which keeps Absolute Power from being a 5-star book.The ending was lame.
No spoiler here, but 18 hours of build-up and tension needs to have a killer ending - a hard take down that leaves the reader pumping their fist in revenge.
That said, I recommend some of Mr. Baldacci's later works - especially The Camel Club - more highly.
