https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22886612-nemesis-games
It's still a stirring adventure for each of the characters as they split up and eventually came back together.Truly a character-driven novel this time, though.
I got sucked back into the characters as if I had never left and was delighted to see that they shone brighter than in several of the previous novels.
Instead, we've got very human tragedy and a very interesting power grab in the local system, not to mention mysteries closer to home for our main characters which feel more important, somehow, than the mind-blowing ones.I can easily say this satisfied my deep craving for truly excellent space opera.
That makes sense because by their 9 book timeline this is where we cross the halfway point so we’re firmly in the second act which is where things traditionally get dark for the heroes of any kind of story.
Since the third book the authors have done a much better job of finding ways to put a face on the bad guys, and they’ve got a knack for creating a particular brand of smug self-absorbed jerkfaces who are masters of developing rationalizations for their actions.Another selling point here is that at this point in the series we’re fully invested in our main characters.
Nemesis Games offers a perfect blend of intimate character stories with a broad scale intergalactic adventure of epic proportions. The book takes about 200+ pages to establish the stakes before launching into one thrilling close call after another.
The decision to go on shore leave right after surviving the events of Cibola Burn meant that Holden, Naomi, Amos and Alex were all in different places when the attack on Earth occurred, so for the first time in this series the four of them aren’t together for the majority of the novel.
Ever.) While none of them return as POV characters, all three women have significant roles to play in Nemesis Games.I’ve also said before that the books of The Expanse tell very human stories.
Part of the problem is that Avasarala and Bobbie were so great in Caliban's War, everyone that followed was a disappointment.Not only that, but they didn't really feature in books 3 and 4 and I think that's a waste.
Not only do we finally get in the heads of characters I've come to love in the last 4 books, but we get more of their backstories as well, especially Naomi and Amos.
If you found yourself not as happy with the last book or two, I highly recommend giving this one a shot, I really think it's best one yet!
You know you’ve passed that point when you no longer care what happens in a book series as long as you get to spend more time in its world hanging out with its characters.
And in this one, that thing is probably the biggest thing of them all, and it’s even more exhilarating because if you’ve read the four books prior to this one, you are likely very attached emotionally to the characters experiencing these world-changing events.*A penname for writing duo Daniel Abraham and Ty Franck.This book also brings us POVs from all the four main crew members of the Rocinante for the very first time.
The most nerve-wracking Expanse novel yet sees the crew of the Rocinante separate for a variety of personal reasons during some down time for ship repairs.
Slowly, they find themselves drawn back together as a strange conspiracy morphs into a shocking, game-changing event.This time, each of the Roci crew has their own POV storyline, instead of the usual cycling through a new cast of supporting characters.
The opportunity to take an even closer look at these people we’ve come to love (instead of always seeing them through other characters’ eyes) is the best kind of reward for being a devoted reader of this series.
Before Amos leaves Earth, he calls Avasarala and asks her to let him see Clarissa Mao, who he became fond of when they escorted her as a prisoner.Alex goes to visit Bobbie.
Alex gets Holden's message about checking on the ship in the Hungarian cluster; Bobbie says Avasarala gave her Julie Mao's ship, the Razorback, and that he can use it.Holden and Fred check the security footage and see 2 guys (not in Tycho's system) in jumpsuits and caps go into Monica's room and leave with a shipping crate.
*** 4.75 *** "... “We’re not making any official statements, especially when James Holden’s in the room. No offense, but your track record for blurting information at inopportune moments is the stuff of legend.” ..."  OK, this was awesome!!! I think after the short story "The Churn", which was all about how Amos got to be who he is and where he is, this is my favorite book of the series so far!!! It was everything you want from a Science Fiction + Space Opera + Drama!!! And none of that manufact
It is great to be back with the crew of the Rocinante, Amos, Alex, Naomi and of course, our none-too-bright but earnest and lovable Earther James Holden.
Making things worse is the fact that his shipmates are loyal and love each-other like a family, so they all feel like they have to follow in his footsteps and have his back, thus getting themselves constantly in trouble on his behalf...
At times I was left feeling like no matter how many brilliant things Humanity comes up with, we will always find reasons and ways to hurt, humiliate, or annihilate each-other, and this is just so very depressing...
I loved getting the perspectives from each of the view of the Rocinante. I also loved splitting them up so we can see a little more of what they're like outside of Holden's orbit. My only quibble would be that the story arc leaves me hanging which in show business I believe is called leaving me wanting more. Which ultimately is a good thing but damn. All of the Expanse novels have left you on a hook for the next one but never as intensely as this one I don't think. SO MANY MYSTERIES! ALL THE MYSTERIES!
I need book 6 RIGHT NOW!!!!!
Nice addition to the series.
The continuity for the five books already published is guaranteed by the crew of the space frigate “Rocinante” , a tightly knit freelance team under the leadership of captain Jim Holden.
Jim, his girlfriend and second in command Naomi, his pilot Alex and his muscle-man gunner Amos have been through a lot together, and at the start of this episode, with the “Rocinante” severely damaged in the previous adventure, they are about to enjoy a well deserved vacation on an orbital station.
After the shortcomings of the previous installment, I was a bit concerned that the shine might be off this delicious space opera apple (not a Star Carrier level of concern, but still some). I was extremely happy to see my concerns obliterated and my faith in this series more than restored.My biggest problem with the last book was that it felt very claustrophobic. I mean, the series is called  Expanse , but Cibola Burn mostly took place on one planet, nothing like the solar system (and beyond) sp
, but Cibola Burn mostly took place on one planet, nothing like the solar system (and beyond) spanning stories the first three books encompassed.
One of the underlying themes of this series is the tension between the planetary societies (Earth and Mars) and the Belters (people who live and operate in low gravity environments in the asteroid belt and moons).
They see this exodus of humanity to the new worlds as a direct threat to their culture and way of life.Into this volatile mix, a group of Belter terrorist due some pretty terrible things in a terrifyingly effective and coordinated manner.
Friends, I have been having paroxysms of joy whenever I think about this book, these characters, their friends, AVASARALA, BOBBIE, FRED. THIS WAS LIKE AN ACTION MOVIE IN BOOK FORM FROM THE HEAVENS WHERE EVERYONE IS BOTH BADASS AND VULNERABLE AND DEADLY AND STRONG AND HEARTBREAKING AND HILARIOUS. EVERYTHING I WANTED FROM THIS SERIES THIS BOOK GAVE TO ME AND IT'S BEAUTIFUL AND I CAN'T EXPRESS HOW MUCH I LOVED IT. IT'S SO GREAT. IT'S THE GREATEST. ARE THERE OTHER WORDS TO TALK ABOUT HOW GREAT THIS IS? PROBABLY NOT. GREAT x74629372716,000 THOUSAND STARS FOR THIS BOOK.
4.5 stars.
A tense story with a shocking development.
The Roci team is split up and in different locations.
We get a better view into each team member's thoughts, finally, and Bobbie and Chrisjen are back, too.
People are leaving for the new unexplored planets, and that's changing things politically throughout the system, shaking up governments and making Belters very uncomfortable.
Meanwhile, Naomi gets a reminder from her past.
And damn!
I am so glad we finally get some insight into Naomi, and see just how scared and tough and determined she is.
And Amos calling Chrisjen "Chrissie" made me smile.
Finally we get to explore more points of views from the crew of the Rocinante. I especially enjoyed reading more of Naomi and found her backstory very interesting, but also Amos and Alex got an interesting and enthralling story. I even grew to like Holden! Avasarala is my favourite character and I think my only complaint this time around was that we don't get to see as much of her as I'd like.I'm excited to read the next book!
Holden, Burton, Nagata, Kamal, and all the rest are back ...
and so is the tension that the author has managed to keep at a high pitch over five books.
The break up of the company leaves Holden morose and struggling.
The crew sometimes felt as if they were part of the background when compared to Holden's monopolization of the lime light.
Now, we get to learn the backstories of Nagata, Burton and Kamal.
Of course, it wouldn't be the Expanse if we weren't learning about those backstories in the midst of all hell breaking loose.
Moving the pieces.Unspecified spoilers ahead.Excitement.
What should have been a momentous, earth shattering change has less impact than the Ilus incident in the last book.
The book ends long before the story does.
This is half a book pretending to be whole.
A good half.
But still only half.
But for now they're just pieces being moved around the board.
But for now they're just pieces being moved around the board.
George R.R. Martin did not get away with merely moving pieces in his fifth book.
What on Earth possessed S.A. Corey to try the same?
This was yet another great entry into The Expanse series. This book provides some insight into the personal backgrounds of some of the long time characters as the usual action filled tale unfolds. The story continues to be full of excitement and I'm definitely looking forward to the next installment!
But first, the good: We're back to big spaces and high stakes, which is enjoyable after the sometimes claustrophobic fourth book in the series.
My favourite characters return, which is also pretty great.
Frustration #2: Naomi has now spent two books in a row being a prisoner.
(Side note: I can't believe that 1) the word "genocide" doesn't appear in the book, and 2) no one mentions Hitler, even when Fred is describing what he knows about Marco and more or less describes Hitler.)More importantly, though, Naomi's characterization in this book is approximately one hundred percent defined by how she relates to male characters.
A lot happens, considering that no time had to be spent giving us info on all new people, the bulk of the book fully develops backstories and gives us the goods on the main characters.
The Amos chapters are pure fun, and his backstory first established in The Churn is continued to a great conclusion.
Her interactions with Amos were my favorite thing about this one.The story itself is a massive shakeup to this universe, and will have long lasting reverberations for the books to follow.
Some slight spoilers ahead...All about Holden, Naomi, Alex and Amos, instead of the usual introduction of a new host of characters never to be seen again.
Just our favourite crew, with their odd-ball humour, trying to survive against mounting odds in a pretty straight forward action adventure story.
Don't get me wrong, the other books with their conspiracies, aliens, universe-spanning plots and amazing world building were fun, too.
I wanted to take breaks between chapters, but I just couldn't, I was having too much fun...My favourite stories were those of Amos and Naomi.
Holden's was fun, too, but more of a filler.
Actual rating: 4.5 stars.
Cinjenica da su svi glavni likovi prepusteni sami sebi daji piscima mogucnost da kontrolisu pricu koja prati cetiri totalno razlicita dogadjaja koji su opet stalno povezani.Nema dosadnih momenata, stvari se stalno desavaju koje su stalno interesantne i saznajemo dosta istorije o nekim likovima.
Plus citava scena oko koje se prica vrti se totalno menja u odnosu na prethodne knjige.Moram da priznam ali ova knjiga me je stvarno iznenadila.
Posle prosle koja mi je bila dosta meh ovo mi predstavlja jednu od naj SF knjiga koje sam citao u poslednjih par godina.Naravno kada se ohladim malo mozda i promenim misljenje ali za sada 5/5.Preporuka kao i za ceo serijal.
Also, it must be noted that a few other characters and plot threads from the other books in the series make appearances here as well, to the benefit of the story.
I can honestly say that this is, while not necessarily my favorite Expanse novel, undoubtedly the most well-written of the five books released so far.And I don’t say that lightly.
I don’t know that I’ve read another science fiction book that so deftly balances the macro and the micro levels.Unlike previous books in the series, where the crew of the Rocinante (Jim Holden being the notable exception) have been support characters, in Nemesis Games they all get their own story arcs to follow.
At first, I worried having the team 'dismembered' like this, but soon I realised this was the only way to let them shine and develop.
The authors didn't stop there and brought back a few favourite past characters too - Bobbi and Aravasala - as well as less beloved ones.
It reminded me a little of the very first book with the big dichotomy, not just of planets and Belters, but people with opposite outlooks."There are two sides in this, but they aren’t inner planets and outer ones.
It’s the people who want more violence and the ones who want less.
Kako je dobro rasturen to će trajati mjesecima pa se posada malkice rasula pohvatati duhove prošlosti.
Malo Zemlja, Mars, nepoznato i kapetan osta sam paziti na brod.I počeše oni svašta mrljaviti, ali tek od 40% knjige - do tada se čita očekujući nekog vraga koji nikako da stigne.A i kad počne neki zaplet sve ispada običan krimić smješten u prostor između Zemlje i asteroidnog pojasa.Je, samo pisanje izgleda najbolje do sada jedino ne znam zbog čega je uopće napisano.Neka protomolekula, neki vanzemaljci, neki drugi vanzemaljci, začudni novi svjetovi????
Jok, jok - toga tu nema.I još bezobrazno očekuju kako ste pročitali (i kupili valjda) novele prije toga (posebno The Churn).
I really liked getting into the heads of the entire crew of the Rocinante. It was a good way to get around the fact that they were separated through most of the book and still retain the feel of the closeness of the crew in the previous books. Once again, people are up to nefarious things, there are mysteries galore, and I have no idea what the Ring is up to! Really looking forward to the next one.
Best of the series. We finally got a book with entirely Roci-crew-based PoVs, and shit just goes down every single chapter. The stakes have been amped up tenfold, and I'm giddy with excitement for book 6 in November.
