https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40378.The_Chessmen_of_Mars
When the space craft are flying, you might even be able to envision the cord that it is hanging from.But, seriously, it definitely has that feel and if you have enjoyed the other books in the John Carter/Barsoom series, then you should enjoy this one no less.I will say that I think I like it more for the atmosphere described above and the characters than anything else.
It is almost like going to a sci-fi museum where nothing has been updated since the 40s.
Sometimes you think it is so bad, but you realize it is so good!
My Grandfather owned a copy of this book & he offered it to me to read when I was @ home sick with measles over 50 years ago. It was my introduction to that mystifying & magical world of Science Fiction. Thus began my lifelong love of all things "other worlds" written, filmed, on TV... Amazing author, story & grandfather!

As with my other favorite, 'A Fighting Man of Mars', the hero of the story isn't that veritable demigod Virginian, John Carter, but a native Martian - in this case Gahan the Jed (or King) of Gathol - a small but very prosperous city state.
The long series of adventures that ensue reveal hidden kingdoms, lost races, and ultimately culminate in a stunning game of living chess.
And I doubt that there is anyone out there who first read this story as a boy and didn't build a Martian chess set of some sort.Anyone care for a game of Jetan?
In the second half of the book, the trio is captured by the hordes of Manator, and Gahan winds up fighting for Tara in a game of Martian chess, or jetan, a game in which real men are used in lieu of pieces and fight to the death for possession of squares.
This book is based on events told to John Carter, conceivably by Tara, Gahan and/or Ghek, and yet scenes are described in which none of those characters appear; thus, they could have had no knowledge of these events described.
Burroughs again recycles his damsel in distress (of course she's gorgeous), his introduction of two new species of Barsoomians (surprisingly close to Helium to have gone unnoticed), the courageous rescue (by a spurned suitor).
Tara, as a Carter herself, gets to be a little more feisty than Thuvia was allowed to be.
A race of Barsoomians who have advanced their intellect to such a level that they are devoid of emotion and have developed physically to mere brains with little spider-leg appendages to be able to scuttle about a bit.
I give up. Burrough's Barsoom series has devolved into a Captain-Bill's-Whiz-Bang stories of the simple sensationalism, appropriate at best for adolescent boys.Even though I have several more editions in my Nook, I doubt if I'll read them soon.A waste of time and electrons--at least the trees were spared.
Sadly a huge pain in the arse compared to the earlier books. Tara of Helium is just a whining bunt and the throwing out of random names and places gets old really quick. Just not an interesting enough plot to carry through the flaws
A pretty darn good one in the Mars series. I felt Thuvia, Maid of Mars was a little lacking, but this one makes up for that. This one, again, does not focus on John Carter, but rather his daughter Tara, which he suddenly has. She gets captured by the Kaldanes, which are spider-like creatures and can attach themselves to these headless human bodies, called rykors, and control them for their own use. She also gets captured by the Manatorians, which are the chess players; but they play using real people on a life-size board. It's good stuff.
On our trip to Mars this time, we find more lost and forgotten cities, one of which is inhabited by some of the most disturbing creatures ever to be described on paper. Along with great Burroughs style adventure, and classic characters. Well played Mr. Burroughs, well played.
While one can understand that it is important for the way the story is told, it doesn’t seem believable, and then it leads to issues with the narration referring to Gahan by the wrong name and position, even when it doesn’t make sense to do so.
The story is so entertaining, that one hardly notices that one of the major plot devices, that Tara is promised to another but is falling for Gahan/Turan is rather similar to the one used in “Thuvia, Maid of Mars”.One of the reasons I feel that this book is probably the best of the series thus far is that unlike John Carter in the first three books, the major characters in this book are much more vulnerable.
Tara, the daughter of John Carter the Virginian visitor to Mars that has graced many of Burroughs’ stories with his action-packed presence, goes out on a joy ride in her flying machine and is caught in a terrible storm.
This storm blows her craft to unknown parts of the red planet where foreign and antagonistic peoples reside.
When her absence is discovered fleets of ships are sent to find and rescue her.
One of these ships is commanded by Gahan the Jed, a spurned suitor.
I’m sure many people will enjoy this pioneer in fantasy…
I think this book caught me off guard.
The last book from this collection was good but not as good as its predecesors.
So when I started The Chessmen of Mars, I still had the bittersweet taste of Thuvia, Maid of Mars.
In the beginning, it was kind of boring, giving a look of a little presumptous girl as she inherited all the Glory of the Warlord of Barsoom.
I think she was a careless, selfish and a swagger.
But then, as she was lost in a far away place in Barsoom, the book made me feel anxiety, the lurking horror at the corner and dispair for Tara´s distress.

And extraordinary fantasy by Edgar Rice Burroughs - a story based on the divorce of the Intellect From the Physical - two species evolve - one physically strong but devoid of any brain function except the basic functions of eating, breathing and toiletry, while the other species latches on to their spinal cord and sits like a brain on them, guiding them to do all their work while themselves getting their pleasure only from thinking!A great book for a 14 year old to read and I never forgot this book
“It is a strange tale and utterly Barsoomian.”The Chessmen of Mars is a nice return to form after Thuvia, although ironically the stories are somewhat similar plotwise.
Chessmen is a fun novel, full of the usual action, twists and turns that by now you will have come to expect from Burroughs, and although it may start to drag a bit toward the end, it’s still a good story if you are looking for some light reading from Mr. E.R.B. and a return to the Barsoom of your imagination.
What an imagination!The second ancient civilization Tara and Gahan encounter is the ancient city of Manator, where the game of Jetan (which is similar in many respects to the Earthly game of chess) is played in an arena on a board with living and armed human pieces.
There are many other interesting aspects to the ancient city, but the game of Jetan is, by far, the most intriguing and inventive.Once again, as in the first four novels in this amazing series, Burroughs has invented a world in many ways like our own, but in many ways unlike it, a world peopled by unique creatures and ancient civilizations and, often, unexplored.
My main quibble is this: The whole premise of the series is that John Carter, who is from Earth - or at least has Earthman strength - finds that on Mars (Barsoom to the locals) - this translates to super-strength, and he's essentially a super-hero.
In the last pair of books, they make it clear that his son has nearly this same level of strength, so that if John can make 100 foot leaps, Carthoris at least 90.
Instead our hero is her wooer, but the best character in the book is one of the brain spiders that comes along with them.
On the other, the plot falls squarely into the well-grooved tire tracks of the previous books: the protagonists are lost far from home and fall into various perilous lost cities and civilizations.I did like that Tara of Helium was at some level the main character, which puts her in a more dynamic position than Dejah Thoris had been, and at some level she and her love interest, Gahan of Gathol are on a more equal footing in terms of involvement in the story.
Tara is daughter of John Carter and Dejah Thoris.
(Sound familiar?) When she is lost while flying in a storm, Gahan sets out to rescue her.This time, we go to two places nobody ever leaves: the land of the walking heads, the Kaldanes, and Manator, a city inhabited by primitive Red Martians.
A Martian chess game called Jetan plays a pivotal role in the story, but frankly you don’t need to worry about the longish explanation of the rules in the early part of the book.Tara does stuff though her role shrinks toward the end to someone to be rescued.

His daughter Tara -- newly introduced for the work -- has center stage, as does the jeddak of Gathol, Gahan, who meets her af her father's house -- and doesn't impress her.Also, the man her father wants her to marry does not get her for a dance, because he had asked another woman first.
It involves the beauty of song, a stepfather who is more concerned by his stepson than his own father, accusations of witchcraft -- the Corphals of Mars -- and the belief that only a jeddak can kill one, the title game played as a gladiator's game, an old man who admires courage, stealing a dagger, and much more
In ‘Chessmen,’ Burroughs slows down the pace a bit from the fight-and-run non-stop action of some of the previous Barsoom novels.
It’s a longer and more ambitious effort, though certainly still packed with the usual action and the usual plot devices.It’s all the inventive details that make those plots work and where ERB shines.
There’s even some character growth in the female protagonist, Tara of Helium.I’ll admit it was a toss-up whether to give this story three stars as a solid adventure novel or four for being a little more.
I think I’ll go with the latter; I’ve certainly no qualms about recommending it.
If you have ever watched the show: DOCTOR WHO, I can tell you that one of that series' most iconic villains was heavily influenced by some of the creatures in this JOHN CARTER novel.
The beasts in this story are a group of small, cepholopodic/ crusteacius heads called Kaldanes, who are totally lacking in emotions of any kind, posess an unnaturally high level of intelligence and who use completely seporate bodies to move around.
I recommend this book especially to fans of DOCTOR WHO so that they can see just where that show's most famous antagonist got its start.
WHO, this is still a great story.
Tara of Helium had a little more to do than most of Burroughs' ladies, but about halfway through the book she basically vanishes from the plot and becomes the Macguffin in constant need of rescuing. The adventure was good, and I shouldn't complain too loudly, given when the book was written, but it would have been cool to see the heroine front and center through the whole thing (especially since Gahan of Gathol was kind of a derp who just flailed around waiting for everybody else to tell him where his lady was being held this time).
Please note, this 5 star rating is based on my long ago memories of this book - I may have read it greater than 20 years ago. I recall reading and really liking it, and even kept the book to read again in the future (something I only do with good, or otherwise significant books). The memories of an old man are sometimes faulty so this could really only warrant 3.5 to 4.5 stars, instead of the 5 I gave it. Once I re-read the book I will update this rating/review to more accurately reflect my thoughts.
Another wildly imaginative story from Edgar Rice Burroughs. I'm amazed at the fanastical ideas he comes up with each story. Although sometimes contrived the events in the story are fun to read. What impresses me most is the creativity behind each book in this series. Each story is usually about some kine of near war with another nation on Mars, it's the journey and the details of the outcome for those events that make the books entertaining and enjoyable stories.
Out of all the John Carter books I think I enjoyed this one the best.Burroughs introduced a couple pretty strange Barsoom creatures in this story, the Kaldanes, and the Rykors. Two separate creatures but dependent on one another.The story was kind of halloweenish in one regard with the horrible looking Kaldanes and other events that involve superstitious fear of the Manatarians.The story also has a philosophical aspect of maintaining a healthy balance between mind and body.
I have to say that The Chessmen of Mars was a delightful read. It continued the Barsoom series nicely and delivered exactly what I was expecting, albeit the main characters of the story changed from my expectations.If you liked the previous books, I would recommend you to read that one, and if you didn't I would not.
If you like Burroughs' writing and the Barsoom series this one should deliver as well. The bad reviews seem to be from people who lack imagination, you have to be able to suspend disbelief in order to fully enjoy fantasy. I loved this and want to play Jetan (Mars' version of chess)
