https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/115758.The_New_Encyclopedia_of_Modern_Bodybuilding
Are you serious?? You want me to critique 7 time Mr.Olympia?? How about you have a good-read of this website of Arnie's bodybuilding resume and then pop off @ the mouth...http://www.bodybuildinguniverse.com/a...This book is a must for all weightlifters. Even though the photo's are from the early 90's the tips are straight from the golden horses mouth. Doods' nasty with the iron. Recognize royalty when you see it.This is a constant reference and is dubbed "the bible of bodybuilding" big up's to Brandon DiCola for one of the most useful birthday gifts ever. Love you, man!
What was refreshing about this book is Arnold's admitance that there is no one true path towards fitness, there is only one's own personal goal and one should educate themselves on how to achieve it accordingly.
Perhaps the most refreshing aspect of the book is his thankfulness and acknowledement of those who helped him along the way, an his insistance that the single most important factor in determining your success in the gym (aside from your own determination and goals) is a good gym partner; someone to help keep you motivated and visa versa.
Relying on good 1990s scholarship, A.S (I refuse to spell his name) explains basic kinesiology, body types, and strategies for realistic gains.He goes through the different types of exercises and how to do them safely.
His workout plans are fairly good for the most part, but presuppose ready access to a gym.
For backs he says to do 50 chin ups a workout at 5x10.
His workout schedule is fairly exhausting even for those who are really strong and have good cardio.
This book is the ultimate reference guide for strength training, full stop.
The New Encyclopedia of Modern Bodybuilding by Arnold Schwarzenegger was written in 1992.
The New Encyclopedia of Modern Bodybuilding is over 800 pages and goes over many different topics from Arnold himself including; nutrition, bodybuilding workouts/exercises, history of bodybuilding as a whole and lots of half-naked pictures of the legendary Arnold.
The whole concept of this book is all about bodybuilding and expanding the different topics involved.
I really liked the fact that The New Encyclopedia of Modern Bodybuilding had so many different topics, for example, exercises and movements.
Who do you know that reads a 800 page book on bodybuilding?
This well and truly is The Bible of bodybuilding. Anyone considering spending more than an hour a week in the gym should get this book.Read it once to get the gist, keep it forever as a reference book. I bought the Kindle version, but will probably get the physical version now to keep around.
This is "the" reference manual for bodybuilding. I find this book to be very interesting and helpful for any athlete involved in strength training, regardless as to whether you are interested in competitive bodybuilding or not.
This is the ultimate guide to classic bodybuilding. I read this 2 years ago and still refer back to it. It only took me a few days to read the entire encyclopedia.Nothing captures the essence of what bodybuilding is about quite like this book. I would 100% recommend this to anyone with an interest in bodybuilding or even just weight training.
Interesting read.However, one can't help but think that maybe Arnold was a little out of touch with the reality of training for the average guy.
After discussing the fact that some muscle groups, in particular the lower back, recover slowly, Arnold gives his Level 1 training program.
It appears that Arnold did not take into account the slow recovery of the lower back he mentioned earlier.How to explain this?
In writing the book, he gave lip service to what he knew were widely held beliefs about training...
but then gave the types of routines he would do, without really thinking about the incongruity.

This book is truly the bodybuilding Bible is pronounces itself to be. Every page is dense with good information , the pictures are drooling and the advice is immaculate. Going to use it extensively to improve my training.
I wish I read this years ago. Covers everything you could possibly want to learn about bodybuilding in a interesting and insightful manner. Can be used all the way from being a novice through entering your first contest. It's all there.
Hands down the greatest book out there for bodybuilders from any skill level, and any walk of life.
An essential read for anyone interested in bodybuilding.P.S. The program in this book isn't very effective for novices.
If you are naturally leaner (and comfortable with maintaining that body type) you can still use this Encyclopedia to keep your body firm and to maintain your bodyweight, just do not expect to look like a bodybuilder that has bulging biceps and six-pack abdominal muscles.I have done research concerning abdominal muscles and I have discovered that the majority of the men that possess it, are genetically inclined, that is to say, that whether they exercise five days a week for two hours or one day a week for a half an hour, they still maintain a full six-pack appearance.
Complete with a history of competitive bodybuilding, anatomy, and lifting plans, Schwarzenegger covers it all.
For beginner lifting, Stronglifts 5x5 works well for me and my goals.Schwarzenegger frequently comes back to the concept that training is a means to an end, and that end is a more impressive physique through reduced body fat and larger muscles.
Reading this book has helped me to reframe my goals to focus on my body.
Along with the "focus on your muscles" concept, my second major takeaway from this book is the human anatomy I learned.
- amazing introduction into the history and modern bodybuilding- first-hand personal experience of one of the greatest bodybuilders of all time- I felt that the book did not dedicate enough time to focus on the individual exercises and diet plans- as a whole, the book could have pointed out more controversies in bodybuilding as well as what the negative sides of the sports are (besides illegal substance abuse)
This book contains a tremendous amount of information (including but not limited to tips, guides and suggestions) with respect to different approaches to bodybuilding. Highly recommended to people who appreciate an intellectual and a physical challenge.TIP: Despite appreciating the book's attempt to simplify complex processes and ideas, i wouldn't necessary recommend this book to the absolute beginner.
This is the ultimate reference for anyone looking to weight lift. I'm not looking to become a bodybuilder and this book is still extremely helpful. I was surprised at how in-depth everything was and how much detail. Not everything was relevant, sections on bodybuilding competition training and prep since I don't plan on competing at all. This encyclopedia can be beneficial to men or women looking to improve in the gym. Highly recommend.
Advice from Arnold himself, the 7-time Mr Olympia, you won't go wrong with this book if you're starting bodybuilding, is already doing so, or heck even if you do not know anything about bodybuilding.A great deal of the philosophy of bodybuilding can be applied to life - relentless will, unwavering discipline, thirst for knowledge about what works and what does not, etc. Here you can get a glimpse of how the elites in this sport think and work.
Very informative as far as how to perform every movement but the routines will not work for a drug free body builder there is far too much volume.Overall the book is helpful if you want to learn the basics of weight lifting compound movements,isolation movements,sets and reps but you will never look like the enhanced lifters in this book unless you take steroids
How can someone dispute with the legend about bodybuilding? According to me every gym goer must read this before hitting the weights and do all crazy nonsense stuff and hurt yourself... This book gives a clear idea about what to do, how to do it and what not to do... Great work and thanks to Arnold for sharing his wisdom with us...
I would go so far to say that this is the bible in terms of bodybuilding books. Although modern scientific studies will no doubt push forward new ways of training to a certain degree this book would give you a healthy basis for training to a bodybuilding regime. The diet section is not that detailed however there is enough online for you to set yourself up a good diet system.
Tons of great information. I picked up his book to learn more on lifting programming, and strategies, so didn't spend a lot of time in the body building sections, per se. That being said, learned and confirmed some good concepts.
A great intro to the history and basic principles of bodybuilding. There were no bs marketing lessons but helpful advice and practical guides to training as well as nutrition. An excellent book to start with.
The information is outdated a bit, but it's good to see how the great Arnold and the bodybuilders of his time trained. It's still a good reference for basic but still solid workouts.
PerfectJust a must have on principle. Great for that extra knowledge. I believe if you need some advice of the reality of training this is a key to success.
Got this as a high school kid. Great sample workouts and goes over technique for beginners. Half the book is pictures.
Soooo much good info to get you started and to reference later on as you advance. I pack this book everywhere to reference workouts, nutrition and even workout execution for better form.
This book is filled with everything you ever wanted know If you Read this and dont benefit from it You NEED Professional Help
If you are serious about exercise, read this book. There are examples of each exercise along with explanations about muscle groups worked. Also, good stories from the golden age of body building.
