https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/361551.The_Offshore_Pirate
Küçük, okuması keyifli bir kitap. Bir yalan olarak yaşam ve onun uyarlaması.
My favourite story by Fitzgerald. There is a passage in there about bravery that was especially impactful to me. Shame he ended it so awfully because of pressure of his publishers/the public, or out of spite or whatever.Still, this is how romance should be done.
Bu kadar karışık olması normal mi? O nasıl korsan öyle aa değilmiş zaten. Ne?
I decided to read this short story not only because Scott is one of my favorite writers but also because some fans of the show "Once Upon a Time" pointed out some similarites between Ardita & Carlyle to Emma & Hook in the show. Being a fan of that paring I totally saw it and it made me love this story even more. I know I'd love this story anyway because I love Scott's "The Great Gatsby" & "Tender is the Night" and this story was just great!!! :D I loved it and now another favorite of his!!! :D
"The Offshore Pirate" is sublimely entertaining, almost of a Shakespearean quality. I don't know how much I'd like to dig into it except to say that Fitzgerald designs exceptional heroines who seem to throw off social convention with ease for the sake of a weightless, unburdened freedom of spirit and character. The men seem powerless to affect their own fates from the feminine influence.
The language in this is gorgeous and the main character, Ardita, made me SO angry but that's what shows you it's a good story: when you get emotionally frazzled by the characters. I was a little disappointed with the ending, I kind of wanted it to end sadly, but no, turns out it was all a joke. That pushed my buttons a bit. But it was cute :)
OK, I actually listed to the Classic Tales Podcast reading of this story, but that just wasn't an option on the goodreads list. The language, of course, is beautiful. The racial epithets are enough to strike this story from most school reading lists, I'm sure, and that it what it is. The story itself circles around themes of identity, pride, and escapism.
Beautiful writing as always from f Scott. Ending disappointed me. Otherwise a 4 or 5 star story to me
My favorite short story from F Scott, the perfect summer read if you are in the mood for something short and sweet.
Entertaining, but pointless. A spoiler-free synopsis: bored obnoxious heiress is on yacht that gets hijacked by friendly pirates. Could have made a good smut novel.
The ending was surprising for the whole story was just an elaborate rouse brought together by Ardita's uncle to help her let go of a man she planned to marry against his wishes.
It works and ends vaguely with the reader wondering what was the other one true thing that Carlyle/Toby told Ardita.
However, she like Carlyle better and so does her uncle, so I guess it's a twisted but happy ending.It seems that Fitzgerald admires proud, rebellious egotists but recognizes that they all come to harsh and bitter ends unless a realistic and hardworking overseer is able to convince them (or rather trick them) into making better choices that society deems appropriate.
Part of Fitzgerald collection: Flappers and Philosopers/. Re-read for Fitzgerald Group, First Fitz @ Four. Unusual departure for Fitzgerald. Set on board a yacht, a young rebellious socialite is taken captive by a gang of musicians-turned-pirates and finds herself attracted to the lead pirate. For once, there is no correlation to Scott's or Zelda's real life story but FSF is up to the task and makes this romantic romp a joy to read...as usual.
Just finished reading “THE OFFSHORE PIRATE” by F. SCOTT FITZGERALD. I read this book while listening to the audible version narrated by B.J. HARRISON. This story is about a spoiled young woman named Ardita Farnam, who is on a trip to Florida with her uncle. Their boat is eventually captured by "pirates," and she falls in love with their captain. Fun story!
This is was so pretty, it made my heart melt. One of Fitzgerald's bests!
it is interesting and you dont see the twist coming at all.it is ok. some lines are amazing.
4.5/5
I actually read this short story online here.
It's another short and humorous read from the Great Gats...
This is now one of my Fitzgerald favorites!
It seemed an eternity before he heard the swift compact sound as she reached the sea.And it was with his glad sigh of relief when her light watery laughter curled up the side of the cliff and into his anxious ears that he knew he loved her.” -I remember having a similar experience with my wife before we were married.
That is when I knew I loved her and was ready to marry her."Why shouldn't he?
(view spoiler)[ Oh, well at the end she finds out that the "pirate" is really a rich boy who deceived her the whole time, and she's not only okay with that but wants him to always lie to her.
The "pirate" has six black friends who push forward the action (off the page) and oscillate back and forth from plain old black people to exotic Africans dancing and playing music to create ambiance.In the end when it revealed that the rich boy isn't a pirate, another realization took place for me: all the characterization of the black characters, while still problematic, was also a lie.
Jazz stories/ the revolt of the Angels/ you can lie to me by the moonlight/ all life is a progression towards or a recession from one phrase. I love you. On a sea that was a blue dream and beneath a sky as blue as the irises of children's eyes-- you can almost hear the mermaids as they comb their silver dripping curls under the moon and gossiped to each other of the fine wrecks they lived in on the green opalescent avenues below.
Short and clever story of a spoiled rich girl, Ardita who determined to run off with a man the family dislikes. She refuses all her uncle's attempts to introduce her to more acceptable young men. One evening the yacht upon which she is staying is overtaken by a group of seven men who bring on board several bags and sail the yacht off to a hidden cove on an island. Ardita is drawn to the leader and even considers running off with the daring young man.
#41 in my bookclub AROUND THE YEAR IN 52 BOOKS 2018 (a book by an author with the same first and last initials) was “THE OFFSHORE PIRATE” by F. SCOTT FITZGERALD. I read this book while listening to the audible version narrated by B.J. HARRISON. This story is about a spoiled young woman named Ardita Farnam, who is on a trip to Florida with her uncle. Their boat is eventually captured by "pirates," and she falls in love with their captain. Fun story!
I remember glancing at this a few years ago when I took a class on Fitzgerald, but this particular short story wasn't required reading, so I decided not to add more than necessary to my reading list. I'm glad I decided to pick it back up and finish it, though. It was cute and fun, quite a bit different from what I've come to expect from Fitzgerald.
Fitzgerald's prose leave beautiful echoes in one's mind as a page is turned. Ardita, a spoiled young diva is seen on her uncle's boat. As her vacation continues, the boat is hijacked by a group of pirates. Excited and shocked, Ardita spends more time with the captain of this new crew and falls in love.
An absolutely delightful story. I applaud Fitzgerald for being able to write such a fun and captivating story in so little space. The cleverness needed to win the heart of an arrogant debutante. Intrigue, plotting, scheming, planning, all of it so wonderfully pulled off. I have to admit I totally did not see the twist at the end coming, and that is why I enjoyed this story the most.
I listened to this novella today. It was funny and representative off the 1920's. The protagonist was sassy and attempting to buck the aristocratic expectations of her genre. What shocked me is- despite her protestations- she still solely relied on her beauty and body as her sole means of financial survival- meaning finding a rich man to pay her way.
I mean Fitzgerald just has beautiful language and always intriguing characters, especially the women. Although I was really confused until the end. Then it was all, oh Fitzgerald, you've done it again.
That was a really unexpected ending. I felt so jealous of Ardita's pride that I wanted to see it broken,deep in my mind.(cruel me.!!) It's a fantastic way to win a girl's heart. Nice plot combined with Fitzgerald's flowery dialogues makes it a perfect romantic treat..
I just loved this story by F Scott Fitzgerald. A spoiled rich girl, a whitty pirate, and a tropical island= the best "modernday (in fitzgerald's time) pirate" short story ever. I had to read one story out of a collection of Fitzgeralds short stories for schole and boy am I glad I picked this one!
Another great short story that takes you on a journey so fast but so enjoyable and makes you laugh too.
Sweet love story, I love Fitzgerald. If only he lived a little longer. I wish today's chick-lit love stories were so beautifully crafted.
