https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/578634.Body_Language
قرأت مجموعة من الكتب حول موضوع لغة الجسد ...ولكن هذا الكتاب كان مميزا ...أذكر أني قرأته خلال فترة طويلة نسبيا نظرا لأني كنت في اليوم التالي لقراءة كل قسم منه وحين أكون في أماكن مزدحمة بالناس (وكانت الجامعة مكانا مناسبا جدا في حينها) أراقب تحركات الأفراد وأقارنها بما قرأته في الكتاب ... فعلا من الممتع قرائته وملاحظة المجتمع من حولك في أثناء ذلك...
Informative, precise, sensible and entertaining.This in-depth analysis of human body language is really handy. From head to feet, may it be the person is sitting or standing, and whether the person being analyzed is the sender or receiver, it’s all in black and white. Even the illustrations are noteworthy. Thus, this book is perfect for both professional and personal purposes – from buyer and seller situational analysis to courtship.Side Note:Did you know? Even the positioning of the feet, where it is pointed to, is considered a body language.Awesome.
A nice, brief introduction to body language.
الكثير من الكتب تتحدث عن لغة الجسد وتأتي كلام لا يُعرف شرقه من غربه. وهذا واقع لأن هذا العلم لم يُعرف إلا في العقود القليلة الماضية.هذا الكتاب أعدّه رائعًا بتبويباته وحديثه المختصر عن لغة الجسد وبالأخص الإيماءات الجسدية العامة بدون التركيز على لغة الوجه مثلًا، بل بمجموع إيماءات الجسد في مواقف عديدة.يُساعد الكتاب الإداريين والمُسوّقين وكل من يتعامل مع شخصيات مختلفة ويخضع في مقابلات إقناعية ونقاشية. الجميل في الكتاب أيضًا أنه يُرفق رسومًا توضيحية بالإيماءات ويقيّمها بحسب تجارب علمية تجريبية ولا شك أن الإدراك الأولي سيعطي انبطباعًا صادقًا عن حقيقة الإيماءة.أنصح بقراءته جدًا.
(Amazing.) When wearing dresses or the like, the sexually aggressive female displays one thumb tucked into a belt or pocket." (At this point, I had to put the book down because I couldn't stop laughing.
So baaaaad!)"If a woman loves a man, she will dilate her pupils at him and he will decode this signal correctly, without knowing he does so." (Goddammit, and all this time I was doing it wrong.)"The most aggressive sexual display he can make towards the female is the aggressive thumbs-in-belt gesture that highlights his genital region.
إن واحدا من أفدح الأخطاء التي قد يرتكبها مبتدئ في لغة الجسد هو أن يترجم إيماءة متوحدة بكيفية منعزلة عن إيماءات أو ظروف أخرى .مثلا ،إن حك الرأس قد يعني امورا كثيرة_ القشرة أو البراغيث ،أو التعرق،او عدم التأكد ،او النسيان ،او الكذب ،و ذلك متوقف على سائر الايماءات التي تحدث في الوقت نفسه،لذا علينا دوما أن ننظر إلى مجموعة الايماءات لقراءة صحيحة.
مثل سائر اللغات،تتضمن لغة الجسد كلمات و جملا و تنقيطا.
إن الايماءات تأتي في جمل و تقول الحقيقة بكيفية ثابتة حول مشاعر شخص ما أو موافقة.
و الشخص المدرك هو شخص يستطيع قراءة الجمل غير الشفهية،و يلائمها بصورة دقيقة مع جمل الشخص الشفهية.
قرأت هذا الكتاب لأول مرة قبل ست سنوات تقريبا، وقرأته مرارا بعد ذلك، والآن أعيد قراءته وأراه لا زال محافظا على سحره، على الرغم من أن المعلومات التي فيه صارت بديهيات بالنسبة لي بعد مرور هذا الزمن ...قرأت كثيرا عن لغة الجسم، وأجد هذا الكتاب أفضل ما قرأته عن هذا الموضوع
Haha, I'm really looking forward to the next staff meeting :)
Вече леко остаряла информация, има базови неща, които могат да се прочетат и в "Космополитън". Хареса ми частта за личното пространство, може да се каже, че ми даде отговори на въпроси, за които винаги съм се чудила, но не съм се замисляла. Блесва на моменти с любимото ми "личното пространство на жената най-вероятно е кухнята.", но като цяло е интересно и може би полезно четиво.
Manusia yang sempurna dan berkilauan segitiga sucinya bahkan bisa menjadi Alchemist seperti tersurat dalam karya Paulo Coelho.Sikap mental dan pikiran kita pasti tercermin dalam tingkah laku dan gerak-gerik kita.
Kalau optimis kita akan tegak, tegap dengan dada membusung.
Beberapa gerak ternyaya bisa berulang dan membentuk pola.
Disadari atau tidak disadari.Nah di buku ini kita bisa belajar bagaimana tubuh manusia bergerak mencerminkan pikirannya.
Dengan tahu ilmu unik ini kita akan lebih awas saat berinteraksi dengan orang lain.
"O dia nggak suka.
Biarpun ngomongnya dia bilang suka".
Dan lain-lain kesimpulan bisa kita dapatkan dalam berbagai interaksi setelah belajar lagi tentang ilmu bahasa tubuh di buku ini.
I was never having any attempt to learn about it before I learned about how important personal branding is.
To support our personal branding, we have also learned about body language, since our body (realized it or not) also sends a message, and we do want to send the right message to the people around.
The book talked about positive and negative gestures (from hand, face, legs, etc.) – I personally like ‘Three Wise Monkeys’ chapter - and also complemented by drawings, so the reader can visually see the descriptions of a gesture.
It's not a bad read, but I have to wonder if all of the information is as applicable as the book makes it seem. A good portion of the gesture clusters and non-verbal signals are so obvious that I doubt they have any real-world application and, even if this were the case, that I wouldn't need a book to coach me as to how to interpret them.However, Allan Pease does cover some of the finer points of reading body language, I just feel that the gems that he placed in the book were too far and few between.
A useful introduction to basic body language. The book describes, in simple detail, the various manifestations of body language and what message is more than likely being conveyed. The concept of clusters is especially useful, as they can provide more accuracy in determining what message is being conveyed by the body language. The illustrations are useful and realistic enough that you can study the behavior and apply it in real life. Overall, the book is readable and useful.
Very interesting well researched book. It was directed specifically at salespeople and business people but is also applicable to any human who interacts with other humans. The diagrams were clear and easy to understand. Being better at reading peoples body language can only ever be helpful to you, and this book gives a heap of tips on decoding the body language of our fellow humans and even your own body language you are unconsciously using.
A very interesting and practical book. For female readers - wording was chosen in a typical male centric way when the PC wasn’t as huge like now. I give it 5 for it’s original attempt to decode human body language.
چیزای زیادی ازش یاد گرفتم. کاش یه چیتشیتطوری ازش باشه که بتونی سریع مرور کنی مطالبش رو.خوبیش اینه که روزمره به کار میآد. همین دیروز بدون اینکه یه تأییدِ زبانی برای ایدهم از یه شخصی بگیرم، چون موقعِ مطرحکردنش گروههی «ارزیابی علاقمندانه» رو نشون داد، ایده رو یادداشت کردم که در موردش اجرا کنم :).مرسی از آقای پیز :دی.
چیزای زیادی ازش یاد گرفتم. کاش یه چیت‌شیت‌طوری ازش باشه که بتونی سریع مرور کنی مطالبش رو.خوبیش اینه که روزمره به کار می‌آد. همین دیروز بدون این‌که یه تأییدِ زبانی برای ایده‌م از یه شخصی بگیرم، چون موقعِ مطرح‌کردنش گروهه‌ی «ارزیابی علاقمندانه» رو نشون داد، ایده رو یادداشت کردم که در موردش اجرا کنم :).مرسی از آقای پیز :دی.
If you read into, this is a lifechanging book.
Diese einfache und leicht verständliche Darstellung ist für ein Einsteigerbuch perfekt geeignet und schafft sehr schnell Verständnis für die dargestellten Fakten.Wenngleich die Autoren anfänglich darauf hinweisen, dass immer ein ganzer Gestenkomplex zu deuten ist und Gesten nicht isoliert betrachtet werden dürfen, ist der Schreibstil manchmal etwas zu undifferenziert und erweckt den Eindruck, dass bestimmte Bewegungen immer einen eindeutigen Schluss zulassen.
Ein anderer Schwachpunkt ist natürlich, dass sich das Buch in erster Linie auf den anglophonen Raum (und dort auf die weiße Mittelschicht) bezieht.
I know there are updated editions of this book, but I read an earlier one.
Oh well.From my foggy memories, this book was illuminating to me.
They also had diagrams/illustrations which I found useful, as well as pivotal in a book about body language.
As a pre-pubescent girl, I was more interested in chapters such as illustrating liking someone or how to know if someone liked you by body language then about the power motions.
Of course, what we learn in this book may not be applicable to those who don't have social skills we might deem "normal" in our society...
I'd recommend this book to anyone who deals with people.
I'd also especially recommend it to writers and aspiring writers.
I picked it up because I was tired of the narrow range of nonverbals I was using in expressing emotions in my writing.
The book is organized the wrong way for writers.
A writer would prefer that it be organized by feeling or emotion.
What body language might he be evincing?) Instead, the book is organized by parts of the body.
As for the main target audience of the book--people engaging in sales, or any kind of people-facing consulting--it's right on the mark.
It's also an engaging and fun read.
Many years ago, one of my martial arts instructors made his students read this book.
We thought his fascination with the book was a little strange to begin with, but we quickly learned otherwise.We didn't know it at the time, but our instructor was teaching us about situational awareness.
Reading body language is a big part of situational awareness, and most instructors don't have time (or the knowledge) to go into the fine details of the subject.This is a great book that everyone should read at least once in their lives, it's easier to avoid trouble if you can read the moods of the people around you.
This is the most awful book on body language that has ever been written.
It is so widely received and taken at face value even today, that it is difficult to underestimate the damage these 150 pages have done to the notion of body language and popular understanding of nonverbal communication.
Every other person has read this book or otherwise become acquainted with it's inane myth-filled contents and whatever use it may have had to the businessmen of the mid-1980 has clearly been overshaded by the misconceptions and misunderstandings this book has propagated all over the world.
It's surprising to notice how almost everyone reacts the same way in the same situation.
In fact, it also teaches a lot about how to behave when you are among other people considering criterias like your relationship with them, place etc.
The language is simple and the content doesn't make you require prior knowledge on psychology or other branches of science.It was recommended during a seminar about effective communication and I wanted to give it a try, since the seminar was itself amazing.
The book was also amazing!
Don't skip that book without reading, which will really change you at least a bit!
This book is very informative mainly cause it breaks down everything , simplifies it , with examples of pictures , So that you can relate unlike other books that leave the content to the readers imagination. This book is psychology based an interesting read .I'd recommend this book to people who have to socialize on a daily basis it'll help you understand the opposite person's non verbal gestures which convey a lot , especially for salesmen , Actors too can improve their performance behind the camera in their respective roles.
I became interested in a body language book after hearing about it from my friend Mohamed Hosny,i borrowed this book from my friend weka , but i got it translated to Arabic it's great book this book is like a weapon. It gives you a leg up on interactions with others who do not understand body language, my advice is to try to read your friends body language and apply what the book said gonna improve you very much, my observation about the low quality of the pictures but at all i enjoy reading i hope u do all
This was quite a long read! It was interesting, really, but some parts were quite boring because the book is not only talking about body language between normal people, but more about sellers and buyers. And this is a domain which I'm not very interested in. But even after saying this, I quite liked the book, it had interesting facts and it made me really curious to watch more for body language. Useful book!
This book comes with precise explanations. It is an easy-read, meaning that every one of us can understand what the author tries to communicate with us. Also... it is handy! Whenever you feel like you want to revise the concepts you have learned, you have the choice to dive right into your desired chapter and review the things mentioned there. I enjoyed it! So simple and straight-forward!
كتاب جيد جدًا في مجاله
کتاب خوبیه توصیه میکنم
Summary of more than ten years of research, studies by behavioral scientists, research made by other profession on the same subject and including the writer’s valuable experiences are compiled in this book while the writer tell the reader that this book is an introduction to Body Language.
Although was initially intended for salespeople and managers and executives, this book will give everyone a very good understanding about others and himself.
Writer discussed about gesture clusters, difference of nonverbal communication throughout cultures, objects used while “talking” non-verbally such as cigars, cigarettes, pipes and glasses in Chapter 11 and desk, tables and seating arrangements in Chapter 16.
