https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28385.In_the_Shadow_of_Young_Girls_in_Flower
Both artists try to isolate a singular true feeling, removing all rationalization that we've been programmed to attack with every unknown sensation that comes our way, like our white blood cells fighting foreign invaders.It seems Marcel Proust and James Joyce will remain forever linked in my mind - they who only met once and had never read each other's works (although Joyce later admitted he had read parts of Swann's Way), and who are so far apart in their writing techniques, but that to me stand so close, not just because I read them at the same time last year (and now continue to do so as I'm re-reading the Recherche and the James Joyce biography by Richard Ellmann), but also because, having stated before that I wasn't much of a visual person while reading - that is, I could never really form a fixed image of what the writer was describing, I wasn't able to build that room and enter it in my imagination, only blindly feel the sensations the words awakened in me - after reading Joyce's Dubliners, began to be a little more creative in that aspect.
685. Remembrance of Things Past – Marcel ProustÀ la recherche du temps perdu II: À l'ombre des jeunes filles en fleurs (À la recherche du temps perdu #2) = In the Shadow of Young Girls in Flower (In Search of Lost Time, #2), Marcel Proustدر جستجوی زمان از دست رفته کتاب دوم - مارسل پروست (مرکز) ادبیات؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه نوامبر سال 1994 میلادیعنوان: در جستجوی زمان از دست رفته، کتاب دوم: در سایه ی دوشیزگان شکوفا؛ نویسنده: مارسل پروست؛ مترجم: مهدی سحابی؛ تهران، نشر مرکز، 1372، شابک: 9643052176
اما چیزی که بیش از هر چیز از این رمان درمییابیم این است که کتاب از یک دغدغه، سرشار است، دغدغه ای به نام هراس از مرگ، و ترس از مُردن و نگفتن آن همه واژه ای که روانتان را میخورند.
این که مغزتان پر از واژه هایی باشد که خودشان را به این در و آن دیوار میکوبند، تا خارج شوند ولی نمیتوانند، زندگی را ناچیز میشمارند و خود را وقف تخیلی باورنکردنی میکنند، که هیچ چیز را یارای برابری با آن نیست.
de Norpois to dinner for the first time, having expressed her regret that Professor Cottard was away from home and that she herself had quite ceased to see anything of Swann, since either of these might have helped to entertain the ex-Ambassador, my father replied that so eminent a guest, so distinguished a man of science as Cottard could never be out of place at a dinner-table, but that Swann, with his ostentation, his habit of crying aloud from the house-tops the name of everyone he knew, however slightly, was a vulgar show-off whom the Marquis de Norpois would be sure to dismiss as – to use his own epithet – a ‘pestilent’ fellow.I calmly closed the book again, got up, went inside and put it back on the shelf, where it has remained.
این جدایی خیال از زندگی اغلب آن قدر سودمند است که فکر می کنم شاید بد نباشد آدم آن را به عنوان پیشگیری عملی کند، مثل بعضی جراحانی که معتقدند برای پیشگیری از آپاندیسیت باید آپاندیس همۀ بچه ها را درآورد.آيا اين جملات الستيرِ نقاش، جوهر و هدف اصلى رمان نيست؟پروست داستان را از درون ذهن پسرى خيالباف روايت مى كند، كه ذهنش پى در پى با پوشاندن جامه اى زرين از خيال به واقعيت، او را فريب مى دهد، و پى در پى با مواجهه با واقعيت از دروغين بودن خيالاتش سرخورده مى شود.
However, I quickly stopped paying attention to the translation and focussed on the pleasures of the text.A Note about the TitleThe novel continues and extends Proust’s literary analysis of love, focussing mainly on the narrator’s journey through late adolescence and his early sexual experiences (at ages 15 to 20, unless I’m mistaken).The title of the Grieve translation is "In the Shadow of Young Girls in Flower", in contrast to the Kilmartin translation "Within a Budding Grove".Taken separately, it’s difficult to determine the intended meaning of each alternative title.To what extent is sexuality implicit in the title?This question reminded me of the title of Chapter 28 of Thomas Hardy’s "Far from the Madding Crowd", a highly sexually-charged chapter that goes by the name "The Hollow Amid the Ferns"."Within a Budding Grove" might simply refer to a forest of trees, which bud in winter in preparation for spring, a fairly innocuous translation, if still a metaphor.There is also an English song which might have been known to the translators:"Yet soon the lovely days of Spring Will leaf the budding grove."The budding could also be symbolic of the adolescent experience and puberty of both genders, since females are not mentioned in this version.
And while Roth treats the evolution from child to adult in terms of neurosis to be overcome, Proust describes milestones in psychological and social realisation that are necessary steps to becoming a person.Proust would likely agree with Roth’s take on adolescence: “A disorder in which strongly-felt ethical and altruistic impulses are perpetually warring with extreme sexual longings, often of a perverse nature.” Marcel’s warring self is in essence not much different from Portnoy’s, although a tad more refined, “…our virtues themselves are not free and floating qualities over which we retain a permanent control and power of disposal..” says Marcel, inverting St. Paul's observations about vice.But the aims of each author/protagonist differ fundamentally.
The Narrator is conquered by awe when standing in front of the real object, the thing-in-itself (283 --maintenant c’est l’église elle-même, c’est la statue elle-même, elles, les uniques: c’est bien plus.UNVEILING the CLOTHESBut if we saw that any one person will fashion her or his clothes with the idea of embodying the self in a particular desired way, here comes the artist, the painter, ready to disentangle that conception and model both the art of fashion designers and the projections of a sitter into yet another level of transformation.For Elstir teaches the Narrator that the modistes are artists who with just one gesture they can convert simple matter into something sublime (571 their art “le geste delicat par lequel elles donnent un dernier chiffonement – aux noeuds et aux plumes d’un chapeau terminé).
To me, though, the unifying theme is a continuation of Proust's analysis of how romantic relationships work, which he started in Un Amour de Swann.
If you've never had this kind of thing happen to you, count yourself lucky.In the second volume, Proust looks at two more kinds of patterns, where the relationship isn't as clearly defined as it is with Swann and Odette.
Conceivably, the causality went the other way: perhaps some quantum physicist was inspired by Proust's novel!The thought I find so interesting here is that, as Proust shows, you can fall in love quickly, but then there is a philosophical problem: who are you falling in love with?
it is true it took me a long time to read it, and it was partly because the lulling nature of his prose would cause me to drift off into my own batch of memories and i would realize that three subway stops had gone by, or ten minutes of my break had passed, or i was asleep (that happened a few times, not because it was boring, but because his style is so much like a gentle boat on a lazy stream and it's all memory and dreamy and suddenly i am actually dreaming.
A group of ladies that I meet regularly, and who I would definitely consider as friends, even though we do not necessarily share many common interests.Recently we went out for a bit of a posh nosh to celebrate Angela’s 70th – there’s a wide range of ages too you see, and I’d like to point out that I am much the youngest.
And as you read, you develop a certain rhythm of thought, a deliberate slowing of pace, no skipping or skimming but a mindfulness, a quietening, a letting go of the world around you to find yourself one with the mind of an asthmatic man who lived more than a hundred years ago.
And the Proust group on goodreads is testimony to the faith which you have properly placed in your readers’ abilities to not settle for a simple book; you had the faith to believe in what you were to write and to believe in your book finding readers who could luxuriate in what can only be called a masterful work.But for me, I can only apologize.
I am entirely incapable of disparaging your novel or your prose or your aesthetic, but only find myself traveling down other roads of thought and experience.In the back of my mind I think it may be only a matter of language.
“Our desires cut across one another, and in this confused existence it is rare for happiness to coincide with the desire that clamoured for it.” ― Marcel Proust, Within a Budding GroveMarie Laurencin, 'Les jeunes filles'My first recommendation when reading Proust is the reader MUST make sure they have a reliable bookmark, because when (not if, but when) you lose your place your faulty memory will not be able to remember exactly where you just were.
One young nubile girl starts to blend into another young nubile girl who looks at this point a lot like her friend.
One picked flower starts to smell like another from an earlier page; a page that seemed to exist a whole lifetime ago.
One young man with mommy issues starts to look almost exactly like another young man with grand-mommy issues.
Beauty is truth, truth beauty.-John Keats Let us first treat this as a premise, a maxim if you will, this quote from a long dead poet with a penchant for ancient pottery. Then, let us strip whatever meaning that has accrued upon it. Whether it resulted from pure instinct or rote memorization, fling it all away, and leave just the words. Little as they are, they are more than enough.So, beauty is truth, truth beauty. Now, what is beauty? What is truth?We sacrifice to beauty in all its forms, the
What is truth?We sacrifice to beauty in all its forms, the physical splendor of the human anatomy alongside the colored transience of the heavens, the powerful magnificence of mathematical proofs side by side with the profound pleasure of inspirational prose.
There is no doubting the beauty embodied in this phrase, one defined by the seduction of multiple senses through fire, color, chrysanthemum, November, whatever taste would inspire 'a greedy rapture'.
In other words, both require truth, whether by accumulation of theoretical meaning or of real life.But Proust knew that it is not so simple as that.
but even upon first meeting albertine, marcel writes “…I had hesitated a long time between her and her friends, that quite as much as with her I had contemplated falling in love Albertine, with the girl with bright eyes, with Rosemonde.”  proust is most certainly, in one respect, the anti-romantic.
You and Gottlieb can eat a bag of shit, curl up together, and read Proust to the sweet sounds of Morrissey in the background.Matthew – HAHA!David – Gotti has taste, Donald.
so i do agree with you, david – proust is incredibly romantic.
I don’t agree with DACId. Why did he write this!!!Donald – He wasn’t responding to you, Gary.
In Search of Lost Time, Volume 2: Within a Budding Social Cataloging Website Translated from the French by J. ChabouardI had arrived at a state of almost complete indifference to Gilberte when, two years later, I joined the website Goodreads. Our new teacher for French, Mme Moir, was an avid lover of literature, and she had advised us to each create a virtual account on this so-called 'social cataloging website' this year so we would be able to keep track of our books and write our reading journ
Orozevich would not have been online yet.As I prepared for the fateful night, I was becoming more and more infatuated with the five girls through following their pages and activities; apart from Albertine, whom left the biggest impression on me as the first of the girls that I saw, and who had a lively yet comforting and harmonious manner of speaking, Andrée was the one who shared my literary interests in the classics the most; she had even read a collection of poems by Pessoa.
Orozevich would usually be online, and thus around 50 minutes before he would reply to Albertine's comment (following several others) on this review.
It isn’t that I don’t like reading about rich kids and their grandmother’s snobby friends but none of it had the bite of a good old-fashioned Mme. Verdurin parlor gathering, if you catch my drift.But then Albertine and her band of friends do enter the picture during the final third of this novel and Proust soars anew, demonstrating his eminence at describing the concept of memory, flirting with our own understanding of it, and putting into words an experience we’ve all had recalling the facial features of a person no longer in our line of sight.
Until then, while I know I may begin forgetting the specifics of what I’ve enjoyed so far in In Search of Lost Time, I’m confident I’ll retain at least the impression of the enjoyment it has made on me, which—whether we like to believe so or not—has to be enough.
This second volume within Proust's panorama of self and senses shifts from the inner salons to the outer sea side alcoves and sun drenched hotel lobbies.
There is an energy and vitality to this second book which is projected through even more vivid character portraits and through Proust's evocative expression of his infatuations and obsessions.
Up until completing the first 100 pages of this second volume constant enjoyment of Proust's writing style had eluded me.
I felt a great sense of discovery and a growth as a reader when it finally clicked; when I discovered reading in short staccato bursts unlocked the rhythm and stream of thought.
I later realized the section fits if the arc of this book is the narrator's path from Gilberte to his next love.
Throughout this section the narrator confesses his love for Gilberte, but what we get are detailed descriptions of Madame Swann.
The end of this section contains a detailed description of a painting by the fictional artist Elstir that's quite beautiful.I loved the last section ("Seascape, with Frieze of Girls"); it evoked for me the feelings I think many have when they first become romantically interested in others.
Marcel Proust is a writer I completely miss the point of.
I have no interest in society, especially this dead French one.
I can't seem to interest myself in these children's parties or these petite bourgeois parents scheming to meet this or that VIP government minister.
My God, the tedium!
Yet Tolstoy and Bellow and Ozick and scores of others have all written about particular dead cultures which I've enjoyed reading about immensely.
I can't put my finger on it with Proust.
His inability to involve me remains a mystery.
Well, I shall stop trying to read him and cut my losses for good.
With age comes discrimination: As one can no longer live in a constant state of marvel distracting him from the myriad things to be discovered both within and without him, he also must learn what is truly worth his awed regard.Like all teenagers, the narrator gradually distances himself from his family, focusing on the friendships and infatuations that define life on the brink of adulthood.
I don’t like reading odes to happiness or listening to songs about feeling lonely.
I don’t think many people will agree with me, but that’s how I’ve always felt—so that’s that.To be fair, this book is far from a sappy love song.
This book can be read as an account of exploratory surgery on Love’s cadaver, performed with a steady hand and a cynical eye.But I must confess that even this bores me.
And, in my heart, I suspect that I will, once again, come to reproach myself for being harsh and hyperbolic in a review of Proust.
"هیچ آدمی، هر چقدر هم عاقل، پیدا نمی شود که در دوره ای از جوانی اش چیزهایی گفته و حتی زندگی ای کرده باشد که خاطره شان آزارش ندهد و دلش نخواهد آنها را از گذشته اش پاک کند.
چنین کسانی شاید هیچ چیز پنهان کردنی در زندگی شان نداشته باشند، شاید بتوانند همه آنچه را که گفته اند منتشر کنند و امضاهایشان را هم پایش بگذارند، اما آدمهای بی مایه ای اند، بچه های کسانی اند که به اصولی معتقد بوده اند و از خودشان چیزی ندارند، و عقل و متانتشان منفی و سترون است.
It is this elegiac idea of happiness- it could also be called Eleatic- which for Proust transforms existence into a preserve of memory." -Walter BenjaminThe happiness that Benjamin speaks of is rarely attained in actual experience by the narrator of In Search of Lost Time; he is more often confronted with a prolonged expectation of an event that almost universally fails to live up to his imaginings.
Such might be expected with an imagination as active and vast as Marcel's, but it is also a technique of Proust the artist, another way of digging into the unique and individual nature of human thought; one confronts the reality behind his perceptions of the world, one is deceived, one must compensate, one seeks another truth in the wreckage of dashed expectations.
çiçek açmış genç kızların gölgesinde, birinci kitabın devamı sayılabilecek bir bölümle başlıyor ama daha ilk sayfalardan itibaren, bu kitabın daha rahat okuduğunu ve daha kolay "anlaşıldığını" görüyoruz: cümlelerin daha kısa olması gibi önemsiz farklar var ancak işimizi kolaylaştıran asıl sebep ilk kitapta kayıp zamanın izinde'nin yapısını öğrenmiş olmamız.
biraz da şaşırarak farkına varıyoruz ki bu yapı basit: kahramanımız işte çaya batıralan madlenle, uykuyla uyanıklık arası hallerle, zaten bizim de deneyimlediğimiz biçimde geçmişe dönüyor, hatırlamaktan öte bir şey bu, adını da koyabiliyoruz br ölçüde, istemdışı bellekle-bilinçle geçmişi canlanıyor sanki kahramanımızın ve biz de o canlı geçmişi okuyoruz.
çiçek açmış genç kızların gölgesinde, bir geçmiş zaman romanının içinde olmadığımızı, hatıra okumadığımızı fark ettiriyor bize.
“Back in Paris in the May of the following year, how often I was to buy a sprig of apple from a flower-shop, then spend the night hours in the presence of its blossom, which was steeped in the same creamy essence as the frothy dust on the unopened leaf-buds…”- Marcel Proust, In the Shadow of Young Girls in FlowerIn Part 1 of Volume 2 of “In Search of Lost Time”, we meet the narrator, who is now in his early teens and is in love with Gilberte Swann, and is at the same time infatuated with her mother, Odette Swann.
And that, as we also know, requires an endless book.Sure enough we meet homosexual charcters here & Robert de Saint-Loup tells Marcel:One day, a man who just now is very much in the eye, as Balzac would say, of the Faubourg Saint-Germain, but who at a rather awkward period of his early life displayed odd tastes, asked my uncle to let him come to this place.
A vida torna a ter os seus encantos: o espreitar as raparigas, o sonhar alto com o (re)encontro, a magia da descoberta da voz, da cor dos olhos, da macieza da pele, do toque, os jogos pueris que se inventam, enfim é o amor que assola o nosso jovem narrador.Para além de prazeres e amores, o livro também aborda a pintura e a literatura, assim como, faz um retrato dos pseudo-aristocratas da época, que Proust tão bem caracteriza: uns falidos, outros em busca de protagonismo.
It was on the second day of our Venice visit, following an hour’s leisurely walk wandering around the side streets of the island when we happened to mis-time our walk and came upon the Piazza just as a giant load of tourists were disgorged from a cruise ship.
The lines for gondoliers went from non-existent to twenty people deep, all of the notable guidebook “must sees” were packed – the whole island felt as if it had just inhaled a huge breath of humanity; at the end of the day, it exhaled them out back to their cruise ship.
Proust stretches or shrinks time outside of its natural unfolding, and this is undoubtedly what makes it exciting.He can thus fly over weeks in a few lines and dwell on a moment to autopsy on several pages.
He rewrites the past as if to give it a present consistency, even if all this is only illusion.Proust is a writer for detail, precision almost obsessive at times.
She's got feet like boats, whiskers like an American, and her undies are filthy...."It pains me to do so, but I must GIVE UP!I'm about three-quarters of the way through this, and I've been reading it since the winter and I just....
I need to GIVE UP!Reading Swann's Way was such an exhilarating shock because it was nothing at ALL like how they all said Proust would be.
But this -- this was just EXACTLY like how they said Proust would be!
Reading Swann's Way felt like landing in a foreign city at night and stumbling hungry into some random restaurant off a side street and having one of the most incredible, magical meals of your entire life.
