https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1199688.Babel_17
This book has more than just linguistic appeal, however, - it details the futuristic society with genetic engineering, changed concepts of love, star ships, stellar battles, futuristic technology (of course, now riddled with unavoidable anachronisms, but fascinating nevertheless), discorporate members of the society - all this told through Delany's vivid haunting imagery, told in the language that shifts between crisp and poetic, fluidly transitioning between scenes and concepts, illustrated by modernistic and surreal poems at the beginning of each section.But even by my mid-teens I have read many books that belonged to the excellent science fiction tradition.
I was worried that I'd left it too late, but in the event there was no problem: it was terrific.So when I saw a copy of Babel-17 in a second-hand bookstore yesterday, I was optimistic.
I think I became much more interested in languages partly as a result of reading Babel-17 at an impressionable age, so really it had a very good effect on me.
An SF heroine who's actually a positive role-model for a teenage boy?) It was unreasonable to expect the book to work a second time: I'd used it up.I still love Rydra though.
The execution of this story, however, really failed to float my reading boat.There are some interesting ideas in the narrative around language and the way that the structure of language profoundly influence the way we see and interact with the world but I found myself constantly distracted by elements of the story and its execution that didn’t gel for me.I struggled to empathise with Rydra Wong, and her crew felt more like a living tour around a weird future than a set of real characters.
I will try to get to all of them next year, any recommendations concerning these authors would be welcome.Babel-17 is a very short novel (too long to be a novella may be) about the power of language, a culture called The Invaders creates a language which can be used to control thoughts and actions through the structure and content of the language itself, more like brain washing than mind control or hypnosis.
The denouement at the in the last chapter is fascinating, though the actual ending is a little abrupt.While I found the ideas and concepts very interesting and thought provoking I also found the pacing to be a little uneven, a couple of chapters simply dragged, in a short novel like this I expected a tighter narrative.
Babel-17, however, is considered a Science Fiction classic.
Dune had become the new standard, or benchmark, against which all Space Operas were gauged.
So, Babel-17 is a colourful, clever book, but it's no Dune.
To be fair: it is a very good book, but the language gets too flowery in places and the excitement of the plot waxes and wanes a bit too much, alternating between dullness, psychedelia and high drama.
It's almost as if the author is too 'clever' for his own good.In the end, it was enjoyable enough.
If you're catching up on the Sci-Fi classics, ditto.
It’s very literary compared to a lot of SF and actually a lot of the plot is to do with language.
It centres around a woman called Rydra Wong who is a gifted poet and linguist in a far future where an alliance of humans and aliens is at war with other aliens.
Delany’s prose is beautiful and filled with energy, the plot also whips you along through huge drama and betrayals, but then there’s also poetry and moments of reflection on societal norms and the self.
It’s a clever book.
Definitely one for the linguistics students.
Trippy, invigorating, delightful, and beautifully written, this book is totally original, and the fact that it was written over 50 years ago by a 24-year-old young man makes it all the more amazing.
I needed to have my head and heart stirred and stimulated in precisely the way that this book did after reading a couple of stolid, predictable books recently.
It’s certainly not for everyone; I can imagine folks who want something a little more cleanly depicted and structured could get frustrated by it.
But I highly recommend it to anyone who wants to take a surreal, entertaining, enlightening, provocative journey into a wildly imagined future.
Well, that was wholly unique! This is not so much a story as a poet-linguist's exploration of the significance of language. CONTENT WARNING: (view spoiler)[ some misogyny and body horror/experimentation. Fat shaming. Loss of a loved one. Psychosis. (hide spoiler)]Things to love:-The language. I mean, that's really all there is. Every way we communicate (and I mean every way) is mentioned and symbolized. He then messes with all of it so that you have time to think about what it would be like if o
(hide spoiler)]Things to love:-The language.
Every way we communicate (and I mean every way) is mentioned and symbolized.
He then messes with all of it so that you have time to think about what it would be like if one of the ways we express ourselves was different.-The different writing styles.
Just enjoy the ride.If you're a language nerd or can get lost in cool ideas, just relax, this one's short, rather witty, and unlike anything else I've ever read before.
If you bounce hard off stories with no, well, story, just relax, this one's short, rather witty, and unlike anything I've read before.
Anybody who is a SF fan will have seen Delany's name come up again and again as a daring young talent riding the new-wave SF of the 1960s and 70s, and of course being a young behemian, black, gay poet and writer in NY at the height of the counter-culture movement must have been an incredible time to be involved in the genre.
gets a little confused/confusing after the midway point, but delany's writing (at least on these early books) is so fast and fun and clear and smart, it's easy to overlook the flaws...
this kind of space opera is so much more fun than the heavy realistic dune-type stuff that kinda took over the genre soonafter...
there's so much more room here to feel and breath and enjoy things, it's really exhilarating...
makes you wanna run out of your house and DO STUFF, FLY AROUND, MEET PEOPLE, ENJOY LIFE, FIGHT FOR THE BETTERMENT OF THE WORLD, ETC...
Until something is named, it doesn't exist.Does thought create language? Or does language create thought?A mind-opening sci-fi about language and its power.
Instead, he wants us to acclaim his genius (there are whole pages of characters saying how wonderful the authorial-self-insert protagonist is) without actually bothering to do any of the work that might establish it.Having said all that, it's imaginative enough, sporadically well-written enough, and above all just damn audacious enough to be a good book overall - you can certainly see why this novel got the world to recognise Delany's talent.My best analogy would be a rather less good, but much more left-wing, The Stars My Destination.
It's also, for anyone interested in trying Delany, much more approachable (though less good) than Dhalgren.And despite my criticisms, I do suggest you try this book.
The book never mentions it by name, but it is clearly based on the assumption of linguistic determinism also known as a strong form of linguistic relativity or the Sapir–Whorf hypothesis, which argues that individuals experience the world based on the structure of the language they habitually use.
While the novel clearly has the strong message basis, that what we can think depends on the language we use, it is much more than that.
I’m not a fan of poetry, have something of a poetry-deafness, but I can state that this is clearly a poetic prose, a similar feel to what I get from reading Ursula K.
The copy of this book that I borrowed from the library was so old and so rarely used that the dried husk of flattened bug fell out of from between the last few pages. According to the call sheet in the back, I think it’s been buried in my uni’s storage facility since 1998. Despite the age of this book, I found it to be amazingly contemporary, especially in how it explored the use of language in the expression of self and identity. Maybe I'm reading into it and projecting, but I can feel traces
Despite the age of this book, I found it to be amazingly contemporary, especially in how it explored the use of language in the expression of self and identity.
(view spoiler)[ Language as a plot device, as a weapon of war, is such a neat idea.
(hide spoiler)] It’s like this book was written for me.
It felt like it just existed to give Delany a platform to write about language, and as such, feels somewhat discordant and superficial at times, which is a shame, because I feel like there could have been something amazing there.
I liked this one. I found it to be quirky, weird, fascinating and unexpected. Another arrow in the Galactic secret agent quiver quest. The exploration of language as an ultimate tool for conquering and domination was...really interesting. This one was dated, riddled with anachronisms and some retro slightly offensive views on race and gender. Not uncommon for a book conceived and written in the 60s. There is more Delany in my future.4 StarsRead on kindle.
Now, we have this barely a breadth of a piece in the wake of Dhalgren, and I gotta say: I don't know what changed in the eight years between when Delaney wrote that and this, or if this all hinges on the years between when I read that and this (that'd suck some serious balls), but I have no time and even less patience for sci-fi that does nothing to break the concept that is 'normality' and everything to reinforce it.So. Language.
A 3.5 rounded to 4 because I like weird. This didn't feel like a book written in the 60's, it had some advanced bio-hacking and star flight concepts that still seem fresh today. Ultimately it was all about the myriad forms of communication and how one might exploit them to the fullest. If It was longer I probably would have only been a 3 star but just short enough to keep my attention throughout.I don't know if I would label it a classic but it was interesting.
Most of those ideas relate to language and communication, but there is also weapon development, faster than light navigation, genetic enhancement, a bit of battle action and a memorable trip through a dystopian city peopled with oddball characters, both alive and incorporate.Beyond the scientific speculations, I have to comment on the narrative style of Delany - beautiful and haunting images, understated but powerful emotional content.
Delany goes further in analyzing the way we use language to connect with one another and to find structure / meaning in the world around us: Poet in Greek means maker or builder  even more relevant : You know what I do?
In the first, letters, or symbols that stand for letters, are shuffled and juggled according to a pattern.
In the second, letters, words, or groups of words are replaced by other letters, symbols, or words.
A code can be one type or the other, or a combination.
But both have this in common: once you find the key, you just plug it in and out come logical sentences.
A language, however, has its own internal logic, its own grammar, its own way of putting thoughts together with words that span various spectra of meaning.
There is no key you can plug in to unlock the exact meaning.
Jo Walton's take: http://www.tor.com/blogs/2009/06/stil...12.0% "Liked the kindle sample and picked it up.
:)"17.0% ""He was unkempt and towheaded and sapphire-eyed, but the only cosmetisurgery evident was the bright rose growing on his shoulder.""35.0% ""The discorporate crew deperceptualized.""50.0% "I'm swimming in language theory, and it's cool."81.0% "Now it's being weird."All done.
I think I liked the first half better than the second half.
I don't know; chasing after the pleasures of Delany is a little bit frustrating.
If you like poetry, there's lots of it.
I don't know how well the experimental text layout in Dhalgren is done.
Parts of it reminded me of Cordwainer Smith, or Ted Chiang's 'Story of Your Life' (language).
Only the second Delany I've read, and as with the first one, the thought that comes to mind is "what took me so long?" I've loved both - the first for its myth and poetry, and this for the ideas, the prose, the explorations of self and identity.
These are hitting exactly in my wheelhouse.
This is closer to straightforward science fiction than was The Einstein Intersection, but with a magic all Delany's own.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
I’m giving it three stars because ultimately I wasn’t sure how I felt about it.Rydra Wong is a poet and something of an expert in language.
The world (which I think is earth) felt nothing like the earth today.
It will get you thinking about language in ways that probably never occurred to you before.
I think if you are passionate about language or speak multiple languages- you will appreciate the book more than I was able to.I think I just felt too confused about a lot of things happening to really push it into the realm of a four or five star read for me.
Delany is a veritable genius - what we gush about today in Mieville is but a more sophisticated, more complex offshoot of Delany's ingenious conceptions of making the abstract concrete.Language is what defines us, our thoughts, our perceptions.
Language is the subconscious that invisibly and imperceptibly controls and instructs our seemingly conscious, rational mind.Babel-17 opens with the protagonist, the poet Rydra Wong being assigned a top military task of decoding the mysterious code Babel-17 that is found out to be the signal by which the Invaders, a collections of some planets far in the Galaxy are attacking and destroying the Alliance, another collection of planets.
Lots of books are like this but this time we get preached bad science and plain nonsense.
And even if you grant its preposterous premises, some the exposition doesn't make sense anyway.Part of the problem with Babel-17 is how dated it's become.
Some SF and/or fantasy written around the same time has aged pretty well so that's not a given.The cryptography in the first chapter must have been dated even when the book was written.
so much so that I wondered if there was some kind of allegory to the sixties I was too thick to get.That said, there's much to like about Babel-17.
"Ruby and Python are on display this evening." This is, unfortunately, the line that will probably most stick with me from the book -- in a book written in 1966, that compares natural and computer languages using the examples of Fortran and Algol, how can you not love this?
It's just such a fantastic coincidence.)Beautifully written, obviously, but the idea of weaponizing language does fall a bit short of its potential, and there's a monologue-heavy wrap-up that probably could have been done more deftly.
So if you're looking for a taste of Delany's preoccupations in a short and relatively tractable form, BABEL-17 is a good book for you.
It must have amused Delany (who is black, and queer) to see this cover on the 1982 mmpb reprint:http://www.isfdb.org/wiki/images/9/95...White girl in a silver bikini! I love it. Maybe he did, too.....
Delany's early books just turned genre tales inside out, and by the time he reached "The Einstein Intersection" and "Nova" at decade's end, he was writing beautiful, eerie, thought-provoking tales that let you feel part of new and very different worlds.
(This was all at the same time that Roger Zelazny, another fine writer in the mid-60s, sold out to doing endless fantasy series hackwork) So--- let's pretend that Delany died in 1970, shall we?
It can stand with "Einstein Intersection" and the earlier "Empire Star" as one of the key "new sci-fi" works of the era.
I was swept up by the unique way of which Rydra perceived the world through prose and affect.
Rydra's world was one of which was created, painted and layered by language itself and all interactions with that was subject to your ability to translate the very world around you.
It created a wholly unique read with surreal fluidity and constantly shifting revelations that you kind of just had to hold on and go with it.
The crew was incredibly delightful, although I felt that in the middle that their presence dropped off.
Loved the concept of Babel-17 the language. And enjoyed the interactions and relationships between the characters. But somewhere along the line the overall plot just got lost on me. The writing seemed all over at times.Would gladly read of more linguistic ruminations, and learn all there is to know of the societal structures of this world, without the need for war or assassination plots.
At the time Babel-17 was published in 1966 (and won the Nebula Award), Linguistic relativity - in short: language structure forms the world-view - was considered to be a valid theory.
There even is a GR list for Science fiction using linguistics as plot device.
The novel is not only about linguistics but also a great space opera - with interstellar fighting, space pirates, telepathy, body modification and future family constructs like triple marriage.Delany presents a very dense setting and manages it to build a complete world view within 160 pages!That's where China Miéville should have learned from for his Embassytown but failed (cf.
