https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/773019.Abnormal_Psychology
Butcher'ın Anormal Psikolojisine göre güdük kalmış. İlgi çekici, çabuk okunuyor ama çoğu konuya değinmiyor. Genel bilgi edinmek için alabilirsiniz. Kapsamlı bilgi edinmek ve ders için kullanmak istiyorsanız Butcher'ın Anormal Psikoloji (Kaknüs Yayınları) öneririm.
This is a really good text book.
------ I'd love to see high quality, open source text books come on to the market and drive these ridiculous prices down.
The textbook pricing thing is over the top.
I understand that high quality textbooks are labor intensive and have a limited market.
But we're in one of the worst economies in recent memory, and people under 25 are some of the hardest hit by our current circumstances.
150.00 for a text book, when people are already going into debt to get educated, who will probably emerge into a soft job market........ITS A RIP OFF!Anyway.
Scritto in maniera chiara e comprensibile. Mi ha dato fastidio il fatto che gli editori italiani non si sono sforzati a controllare se gli aggiornamenti attesi per il DSM citati nel libro si fossero effettivamente avverati. Alcuni dati sono troppo vecchi, e alcune statistiche non quadrano logicamente (20% delle donne americane stuprate nel corso della vita??).
I give this book four stars only because the simple fact , there are better texts out there on this subject.But for the average reader just interested in learning something new...its great.Very simple to follow and layout of the book is great as well, its very easy to just skip right to the part you wish to read. Would recommend picking this one up for the shelf at home.
Ann Kring teaches as Berkeley and her lectures are available online. I have listened to her Clinical Psychology Course Podcasts - and this book is the textbook for her class.I would have gone and read it - except no library around here has it and it costs soo much to buy!Does anyone have a copy for sale, at a used-book rate?
Who ever read a textbook containing so many exclamation marks? Interesting material but surprisingly badly written.
One of the best books on this topic.
This was one of many books that I ended up reviewing for teaching psychology class for both graduate and undergraduate studies. I found this book a very good selection for undergraduate studies. It was well organized, very good overview and a solid tie into the DSMVI TR at the time. While there might have been some dated material, I expect that in text books and outside material nicely supplemented where it might have been lacking. Excellent study guides and summaries for professors! Very good book!
My most favorite class so far I went to school in Psychology departement. I think I love it because I have waited from the very first semester to get this class, so now when I get it I can't even bring myself to hate it (and the lecturers are so cool too!). So okay, enough about my class. I love Abnormal Psychology, and meaning to get my PhD in this area (maybe) but why, why, whyyyy this book so simple? *moan*
Too many statistics without conclusions. A basic intro to Abnormal Psychology that touches the surface of human actions (abnormal ones)...as my professor from Indiana Uiversity has stated, "We are a nation of over-diagnosed people (especially children) and psychologists/psychiatrists can't distingush between what's normal or abnormal anymore. We live in a sad state of affairs." It sums up my opinion as well.
I haven't read the whole book since I'm using it in my 3-year degree in Psychology but I'm reading bits and pieces and I'm sure I'll keep reading and going back to it for years to come. It's hard to say the word 'love' for an academic textbook but it's true, I honestly love this book. I like the way it's written. It's practical and useful. All in all, a great purchase!
Read this book for a summer class. Found it wonderful psychology reading. Not too deep but profoundly interesting as textbooks go. In depth information on psychopathology; its etiologies and prognoses.
great introductory undergraduate textbook.
Pretty good, very simple to follow. I liked this book a whole lot. I'd recommend it to anybody who wants an informative look at abnormal psychology.
bacaan wajib mahasiswa psikologi
What I should be doing instead of reading ANYTHING ELSE, at least until after my exam. *sigh*
Insightful. Compelling. Amazing.
This book was a great overview of psychological disorders. Great supplement to the DSM, the two books combined gave me a rather comprehensive view of abnormal psychology.
This was one of my favorite courses and the textbook served its purpose well.
Prof. Konstantine Zakzanis' class. One of the best profs at UTSC. Very good.
I took a few too many quizzes over this book to say I enjoyed it, but I think it will be a good resource down the line. Clear writing and relevant examples.
