https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37772.A_Man_of_the_People
The story revolves around a young educated man, Odili, and his relationship with Chief Nanga, a corrupt, swaggering Minister of Culture in an unnamed country.
After a falling out, Odili plans an elaborate revenge, involving Nanga's young wife and the recent elections.
It is easy to say, "This book is an allegory" - there's politics as the most brutal infighting, the young and educated versus the old and traditional, the power and brutishness of corruption, and so forth.
Achebe savors personal tics, details, dialects, and especially little ironies.Of course, there was a coup, in Achebe's own Nigeria.
Everything in this book has happened except a military coup!” Later that year, Nigerian Major Chukwuma Kaduna Nzeogwu seized control of the northern region of the country as part of a larger coup attempt.Reading Achebe’s political satire on the same day as the Zimbabwean elections were internationally called a disgrace was an odd convergence of fiction and reality and a prescient reminder that Achebe is a writer with a keen socio-political awareness and that his involvement with Nigerian politics at the time would have placed him in a position to witness the corruption and scandal that can more some African politics.A Man of the People contains two firsts for Achebe as a novelist: this is the first time he attempts comedy and satire – much of the doom and portent of Things Fall Apart has now gone – and this is also the first time he has chosen to write in the first person.
As with other Achebe books, it has a strong sense of foreboding throughout, and at first it seemed like just another moral fable, of a good man going bad.
But then the narrator, an idealistic young man in his twenties, decides to stand up to a bully, though for some of the wrong reasons.
At that moment, Achebe somehow perfectly captures what it is like to be young and foolish and headstrong and selfish and idealistic and generous, all at the same time.
Also the treatment of the narrator's relationship with his father is just great.
A friend described this book to me as being the best way to explain why Africa is the way it is... As well as being a very good read, the complexities of African politics are clear here, the tensions of post colonialism, the ambition and criticism of government, and the corruption. Very interesting.
A gripping tale, with vividly described characters like the bootlicking Nwege, Edna's greedy, avaricious father, the absurdly hilarious chief Koko, and Odili's own proud, well known and widely hated Father, Hezekiah.
This story chronicles the politics of African states, and it's eat-and-let-eat leaders.
I read this book 11 years ago in school and I can probably remember it word for word, a must read for anyone seeking insight into the very nature of African state of affairs, from overnight inflation to the disillusion poverty brings, and the rise of unknown backbenchers who will support unpopular motions in parliament if only for personal gain.
Achebe tells this tale with multiple hilarious references, and makes even the most mundane story come through with such a fine mastery of humor.
I think what I like best about Achebe's writing is his use of African proverbs to reinforce many of the themes of his novels - especially since Western / European proverbs have been overdone to death in literature. I particularly like the narrator's voice in this novel - struggling politically yet still very much in touch with the everyday life of love and family.
Ladies and gentlemen...a reread coming up with a truer review! I have given it 3 stars because I read it in school and the fact that I read it against my will. :D
It's important to note that Achebe writes in the first person, a departure from his previous novels.- How do women in this book represent society at large?Edna is a pawn and passive figure--the least of the actors.Elsie shows a keen lack of fidelity.Eunice symbolizes accountability, which is what you want in a nation.Akilo is educated but also a prostitute.Mrs Nanga:what's the deal with her Adam's apple?*In the novel, women go along with objectification.
The action highlights this competition, as well as the inability of society to hold anyone accountable, because they don't understand how their country fits into the larger global context.Examine the roles played by fathers in the novel.Chapter 1Chief Nanga (Minister of Culture) comes to his hometown (village) of Anata.
Moving, Funny, Witty, Powerful & Timeless! I Loved It!
The characters are not interesting.
Dan itulah sebenarnya yang berlaku apabila pada akhirnya berlaku rampasan kuasa oleh tentera, namun, sekali lagi bukan oleh sebab salah guna kuasa pemimpin tapi oleh sebab kekacauan oleh samseng-samseng yang digunakan untuk eksploitasi pilihanraya.Membaca novel ini mempertemukan kita dengan ironi dunia ketiga yang pada satu masa berusaha membebaskan diri dari pengaruh penjajahan namun pada masa sama sering saja terperangkap dalam putaran ganas kejahilan yang akhirnya melahirkan pemimpin-pemimpin korup yang bijak memanipulasikan keadaaan.Sekali lagi, cerita ini bukanlah tentang hero atau penjahat, tetapi lebih kepada gambaran sebuah masyarakat yang tidak berdaya membebaskan diri dari kejahilan...dan sudah pasti kisah tragis ini diceritakan dengan penuh seni.
In one way it made a perfect combo, Odili's involvement in politics is directly linked to his personal encounter with Mr Nanga but on the other hand I could not escape the feeling that for it to work completely there should have been less about Odili's struggle for love (the conflict issue between him and Mr Nanga) and more on politics itself.
I would have loved to have read more about Odili's involvement in politics then Odili's personal issues and dilemma's but that is a personal opinion perhaps linked again that to me Achebe never reached the same level of character build as he did with old Okonkwo.Having said that the book is a worthwhile to read novel and anyone interested in the period and region should pick up a copy.
Small masterful piece of fictional work most likely based upon real events and people. About 150 pages of soap opera African politics in the 1960's that reads like it could be written today. This was near the top of the list of the 75 best books of the last hundred years. It is beautifully written with good detail and use of local dialect. I enjoyed it and would pick up any of the other author's writings when I run across them.
What is amazing about Achebe is how simple and deep is his language. The novel addresses the theme of corruption in the post-colonial era and the tyrannic leaders or (the puppets of the colonial authority). LOved it!
Seriously? A novel assigned for our post-colonial discussion; very sarcastic and has a very witty way of using pidgin to bastardize the English language. The post-colonial significance of this novel is very promising. The prose is somewhat dragging, though.
Timeless, gripping and hilarious story, shows us how top guys exploit those below them and flourish even more. They only care about themselves, that's African politics. All laid out clear in this book.
This is a great political satire and has one of the best last lines of any books I've ever read. (Some of the dialogue is in pidgin, which was a little confusing at times, but Brian helped me out with what he's learned at his lessons, and I used some Nigerian web sites, as well.)
I love this novel.The writing seems so personal.I dont want to write a review just get a copy and delf into it
There is really no one that writes stories like Achebe. I find some of it hard to read and understand - but in that way he reminds me of Faulkner. (for me that is high praise)
But we are guided not to judge him from a distance but rather look at him as a mirror: Achebe hints that this person is not a million miles away from himself (Odili wants to write a novel about the first white men who came to his people).
It is never so full that it will not take another corpse." "What money will do in this land wears a hat." "I could tell by watching his face that his final state of knowledge was achieved through an act of will." "She had been like a dust particle in the high atmosphere around which the water vapour of my thinking formed its globule of rain." "As a rule I don't like suffering to no purpose.
Suffering should be creative, should give birth to something good and lovely."[/spoiler]
The similarities in the politics in Nigeria and Egypt are striking and staggering.
Oh, and that good one, the politics of the white man, supporting two entirely opposite parties.
Every single aspect mentioned in the book about the political life is exactly identical but slightly worse in Egypt, specially after the last coup.
The book isn't written beautifully, it was more like a journalistic narrative, but not at all a work of art.
(then calling her a slut, while you yourself a whore.) He also bugged me when he said to Edna, because she's marrying young "what are you?
Achebe’s satire of the range of shenanigans in post-independence Nigerian politics was considered first ‘sadly so true’ and then prophetic when the book debuted on the eve of a military coup in the mid-1960s.
A small-town school teacher encounters his former teacher, now a big shot minister for culture in the newly liberated country.
Invited to the big city, he goes through a period of disillusionment, then activism, then a victim of dirty tricks by the powerful minister.
Corruption, tribalism and violence plague this fictional country, as they have Achebe’s Nigeria.
An interesting take on politics and corruption. The dialect threw me off but I enjoyed the portrayal of current political situation of many West African countries (third world countries) even though the problematic political essence is pretty much the same with countries all around the world.The book wasn’t that great or enthralling but it’s certainly readable and interesting.
An interesting reflection of corruptionThe novel has a very slow build but a massive payoff. Odilli is a problematic hero, but easy to sympathize with even as you shake your head at him. And Nanga was scarily Trump-like.
3.5 stars. I appreciate the satire of a man nobody likes in a position of power nobody expected.
Menghiburkan dan tak berat.
A parable of politics and how people can behave outrageously and (for a time) get away with it. " Men of worth nowadays simply forget what they said yesterday." So true today.
Though I had been familiar with Chinua Achebe for awhile now, I had not made a conscious effort to read his books due to an unfortunate association I had developed between his work and cheesy people in first world countries who are incapable of looking at Africa through a lens that isn't labeled AIDS, Noble Savage, Nelson Mandela, corruption, elephants and other narrow stereotypes (and who are proud of believing in them).
I can't say how it compares to Things Fall Apart, his more famous book, but A Man of the People is undeniably a book of quality, and I look forward to reading Chinua Achebe again.
:-)Mr Achebe gently sets you down into what is probably Nigeria into the life of Odili, a well educated school teacher with the common desire to better himself.
He flounders a bit and then, spurred on by realization of the level of corruption going on around him, leaps into the fray to fix the world or at least his small corner of it!I really enjoyed seeing all of this unfold in the first person, through Odili's eyes.
I read one chapter a day, savoring it like a daily dose of special chocolate.
Many a day I wanted to read more but I was good and only enjoyed a chapter a day.
A situation that the elite have exploited, with great help of course, from western powers keen to preserve status quo (always good for business), to the detriment of the rest of the country.
Yet the already existing gulf of power between this elite and the enlightened middle class seeking to create change (inasmuch as it is exists) is simply far too great to overcome."A Man of the People" employs satire sparingly and effectively to get the point across, and Achebe gets the story through to the reader as much in dialogue as in description.
