https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/672492.The_Far_Side_of_the_World
However, O'Brian gives enough backstory to bring anyone and everyone up to speed, so that you can enjoy these books as one-offs.That is also part of the problem with these books, they tend to start slow because of all the backstory given.
The Far Side of the World contains almost no sea battles, yet herein you'll find shocking violence of a different nature.
The movie takes bits from a few of the books and patches together a plot of its own, while maintaining the overall feel of O'brian's work in a way that made this fan happy.
The benefit of this novel's simple plot structure is it really boils the book down to what makes the series great: O'Brian's nautical prose and the relationship between Dr. Stephen Maturin and Captain Jack Aubrey.
The relationship between Maturin and Aubrey is one that captures the unique relationship that forms between some men in battle, war, etc., that seems to almost transcend relationships of blood or the liquid link of lovers.
Again, I say almost because there are example, but the great thing about this series is O'Brian lets this relationship grow and develop and adds complexities to it that are unparalleled anywhere in literature.
I can understand how some reviewers might feel slightly disappointed by the routines of very long voyages, especially if they start the journey here instead of with "Master and Commander", but I rate this book among my personal favorites, one of the most dramatic (weather-wise) and hilarious Aubrey-Maturin adventure so far.
I am glad that Jack Aubrey and Stephen Maturin can get over their differences and that they will be our guides to the far corners of the world for another ten novels:  Night after night they played there in the great cabin with the stern-windows open and the ship's wake flowing away and away in the darkness.
And towards the end of the book Aubrey and Maturin fall overboard (or, more accurately, Maturin falls overboard and Aubrey jumps in to save him) and are lost at sea, and then rescued by a boat crewed entirely by Polynesian women who plan to castrate them (why the hell was that not in the movie?).
(yeah!)In addition to the two women on board the Surprise (one of whom gets a really good, albeit tragic, subplot where she has an affair with one of the crewmen), there's the previously-mentioned bit where Aubrey and Maturin get rescued by a ship of Polynesian women.
Captain Aubrey of the British Royal Navy is sent to the South Seas to prevent the American frigate Norfolk from harassing English whalers.
Aubrey immediately realizes what happens and, without a moment's hesitation, dives in after him, for Maturin is so uncoordinated that he could drown in only an inch of water.
(view spoiler)[In order to secure the shipwrecked Norfolk's people, Captain Aubrey lands his gig on a small island surrounded by reefs and dangerous tides.
(hide spoiler)]I will note that this book contains Maturin once again refusing to help a woman have an abortion.
Call me Ishmael! I think of this one as "Jack and Stephen Meet Moby Dick." They spend the first half of the book chasing an American frigate through whaling waters, gathering information from those they come across much the way Melville handled the bulk of his Great American Novel. Of course, that's not all. There's a tragic affair, impotence, murder, suicide, men overboard, cannibals, shipwreck ... Culminating in a final chapter that's as suspenseful as any sea battle. God, I love these books!
Not a lot of war or spying stuff going on for the most parts, just a lot of going about the seas, my favorite parts! Jack and Stephen lost at sea and Stephen on the verge of having his head operated on. The Surprise to the rescue and - the end. IS the war over? As always, a stellar reading by Simon Vance.
Thus the Surprise and her crew confront the stifling heat and lack of wind in the horse latitudes; a squall that rips the bowsprit away (while the ship is refitting up a river in Brazil, Maturin meets a Peruvian who introduces him to the coca leaf); the howling winds and icy temperatures off Cape Horn; the quest for food and water, which leads to a spell at Juan Fernandez Island; a pass through the Galapagos Islands (already renowned to naturalists decades before Darwin’s visit), which Maturin and his friend Martin are allowed to see but forbidden to explore; and the seemingly impossible task of finding one particular ship in the ocean.O’Brian’s language is one of the pleasures of this series.
“And there are hounds too, somewhere about the masts.”“So were my cat and fish,” said Yarrow.A practiced reader of the series will suspect that these landsmen have got the words right but misapprehended their usage.
Jack Aubrey and the crew of the Surprise pursue their enemy around stormy Cape Horn, and naturalist Stephen Maturin is furious at being denied the opportunity to spend time on the amazing Galapagos Islands.
During the journey there is drama on board concerning an unlucky “old” Midshipman who is considered a Jonah by the superstitious crew.The plot of the book differs, of course.
The old midshipman is not only unlucky but unwise enough to sleep with the wife of the very dangerous gunner, with tragic consequences.Dr. Maturin is practically a feminist for this time period, but there is a memorable scene where (view spoiler)[as a devout Catholic, he refuses to perform an abortion even though he acknowledges that the woman’s life is endangered by her pregnancy.
This is a book that calls for a breakdown in the rating.
The plot itself isn't actually all that compelling: the story simply plods along from one adventure or crisis to the next, framed by the overarching back-cover-synopsis plot (which occupies remarkably little of the book).
The characters are memorable, but I can't think of a single one that really develops during the story.
The characters speak from the page as vividly as the best of Twain's.
I've not had such simple fun reading a book in a long time, and I can't wait to read some more in the (prolific) series.
This description also tickled me: 'Valparaiso was notorious for possessing nothing, and that nothing of the very lowest quality as well as exorbitantly dear and delivered only after endless delay'.The relationship of Aubrey and Maturin is especially central to this book.
Stephen sulking at not being allowed to visit the Galapagos, Jack diving after in after Stephen falls into the sea (again), and their attempts to gather coconuts on a desert island are all delightful.
I couldn’t help noticing that the plot of the film adaptation does not bear very close resemblance to the book.
The film is entertaining and well-cast but the book, of course, is much better.
Like all of the Aubrey/Maturin series that I have thus far read, this was great.
In the volume I have there is an essay on Patrick O'Brian's Aubrey/Maturin novels by Charlton Heston.
Especially good is the examination of Jack and Stephen's friendship.
Heston points out that in great literature, most friendships among the main characters is merely asserted (like Tom Sawyer and Nigger Jim, Holmes and Watson, etc.), whereas in O'Brian's novels, the friendship is the key element and the heart of the books.
Excellent social commentary well-couched, with very well distinguished voices.
Now halfway through the series, the previously confusing sailing terms now seem like second nature, and I’m as in love as I ever was with the rest of the writing.In The Far Side of The World, the wars with the French in which our characters were introduced have long since ended and, instead, we’re now at war with America.
Meanwhile, Stephen makes a potentially dangerous error in judgement, before almost getting his skull sawn open by the ship’s parson after knocking himself into a coma on the ship’s guns.The writing on display is as wonderful as ever, and I love how O’Brian depicts the various relationships onboard (even when they’re unsavoury, which they often are).
I have never read a book so dissimilar in plot line from the movie and yet both are very good, it's weird.
Slow start, epic finish. The last third of the book cuts an impressive bow wave. Aubrey and Maturin - what a duo!
The script was actually a collage of incidents drawn from all the books; from 'The Far Side of the World' the film borrows the voyage to the Galapagos islands, and one or two other ideas and themes, but for the most part they are better considered as entirely different things.The book begins in Gibraltar, a place which by now is starting to seem like an old friend to Aubrey and Maturin.
Sigh!Instead I'll just copy my love-rant I wrote when I had just read Chapter 4 and his and Stephen's distracted duet.
I think it is the fact that Jack loves life and he thoroughly shows it that draws you in.
You love him because he disregards Killick when he's being particularly shrewish and Stephen when he is the same.
You love how he could never leave the sea to stay with her, even though you might want him to sometimes.
You love that he can be larger than life, and still be so horribly inept.
You love...
It was impossible to listen to this book and not think of the film the entire time.
The plot as a whole was the same (chasing a ship around the Horn), but so much of the ancillary details had been altered.The character of Hollom was another of these "same, but different" elements - in the film, he is a wholly sympathetic character but in the book, while he does have the taint of Jonah about him, he has quite a few qualities of a snake in the grass.
Since O'Brian is fastidious about adhering to historical fact, I have no reason to believe that a ship's captain never had this foisted upon him by an idiotic Admiralty.
As others stated, it was interesting to see what was kept and what was dropped in the film, and ultimately, I think they nailed the feel of the books as best they could.As for the book, O'Brian packs a lot into this one, but ultimately I prefer the conclusion of the movie to that of the book.SPOILER.......The wreck of the Norfolk was a disappointment, especially after the Surprise spent so much time chasing her.
While I know O'Brian based his work on the historical record, I preferred the movie's subterfuge and close-quarters ship battle to the anti-climatic wreck in the book.
I'm reading (in the case, listening) to this series in order, and The Far Side of the World is action-packed and full of twists and turns. There is a little of everything thrown into this novel making it incredibly entertaining and sometimes thought provoking. I had no problem rooting for the HMS Surprise over the American Frigate Norfolk and found Simon Vance's American accent amusing. I'm finding this the perfect series for audio books.
I didn't enjoy this book as much as some others. There was way too much talk about bugs, animals and vegetation for me. And I would have been much happier if the description about how to cut up a whale was skipped (much like Jack Aubrey). There weren't any huge dramas at sea but instead there was alot of talk, talk, talk.I'm afraid while listening to this I was comparing it to the movie in my head. Perhaps this was why I was disappointed. I hope the next one is a bit better.
I had a hard time separating the movie, Master and Commander: The Far Side of the World from the book. I adore the movie. Even reading the previous 9 volumes made me aware that a lot of the movie lines and plot came from the previous novels, I was not expecting how little similarity the book and movie had with each other. I suspect that I would've enjoyed this more if I didn't have such a love for the movie.
These books only get better, deeper relationships, far distant missions, beautifully evocative language. The piéce de résistance however is Jack's rescue of Stephen as he falls out the stern windows while collecting specimens, and their encounter with a ship crewed by Polynesian amazons! Endless surprises...
Once again, this book is full of all the usual good things that make Patrick O'Brian so beloved by his followers. Definitely my Desert Island pick for the complete works of!
10/10, would recommend to any flotillas of lesbian cannibals out there, thank god Stephen didn't get trepanned.
Really? A little less talk and a lot more action.
Nine tenths of a great Aubrey/Maturin novel. Wasn't a fan of the ending. However, it's still one of my faves in this series.
Audiobook version I cannot recommend these books strongly enough. Read them in order.
Lì fino all'ultimo gli americani cercano di evitare la cattura mentendo sullo stato della guerra, mentre la Surprise è al largo e sulla terraferma Stephen si riprende in seguito a una caduta e a un colpo alla testa.
Jack finisce per capire che invece di dover dare la caccia a un nuovo nemico, finisce per dover catturare un vecchio nemico: l'equipaggio della Hermione, disertore, colpevole di aver ucciso gli ufficiali di bordo e aver consegnato la fregata agli spagnoli, sulla cui testa pende la condanna a morte inappellabile e una taglia.
