https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1861022.Serenade
I probably wouldn't have even come across this work if it weren't in my bind-up of Cain's novels.
The story is of a haggard opera singer who gets with an Indian prostitute in Mexico.
However, his past catches up with him and things turn, well, hardboiled.
I thoroughly enjoyed this short novel.
It might possibly be my favourite of Cain's works.
It's wonderfully paced with highly memorable characters and numerous conversations about opera from Carmen to Pagliacci to the protagonist's utter disdain for Rossini.
I highly recommend this novel to those who are new to the hardboiled genre.
Juana's a prostitute he steals from a bullfighter, but when he gets to her place and sings to her a bit, she suddenly says he should go.A few weeks later, though, she asks if he wants a job working in the whorehouse she's planning to start in Acapulco and they set off together.
The bullfighter mocks him for being a fairy, he gets mad and sings in his manly voice (proving he is totally not gay!), he gets recognized and Juana gets killed.
I believe it was a deliberate setup, and well executed, and probably I would have appreciated it more if I really cared about the fate of John Howard Sharp.He's the narrator of the novel, an opera singer who lost his voice and finds himself cast adrift in Mexico without money to pay rent or to eat.
Again, it is probably a deliberate device on the part of the author, used to accentuate the rift between the lovers later on and the shift in Sharp personality once he gets to New York ( Itry to be a bit vague, in order to avoid spoilers).
I wish I liked this book as much as my Goodreads friends Tfitoby and Jackson.I wearied page after page after page of opera terms, singing terms, opera names, and page after page about music.
Yes, I'm glad I read it because I love Cain's writing.
So this book was a "must-read" for me.
Hope Cain got all his ambitions about being a professional singer out of his system in this book and never writes another word about music.
Cain and it is such a very cool book graciously given to me by Tfitoby!
Cain never made it onto my 'must-read' list the way Raymond Chandler, Cornell Woolrich, Jim Thompson and Charles Ray Willeford have.I'd seen some of the 18 films made from his novels - 'Mildred Pierce', 'Double Indemnity', 'The Postman Always Rings Twice' (and Visconti's version 'Ossessione').
Obsession seems to one of Cain's great themes and the protagonist in this one is more 'caught up' in the woman he loves than anything I've ever read.Tom Wolfe is quoted in the blurb on the back of my copy; " Nobody has ever quite pulled it off the way Cain does, not Hemingway, and not even Raymond Chandler".
In true noir terms Juana, as the woman who leads the weak willed man to his doom, can be called a femme fatale but the way Cain frames the story is a work of art and the way he flips the roles of male and female characters by the end deserves special praise, especially as you spend a lot of the novel disliking the protagonist.
The only James M. Cain classic that couldn't be filmed, "Serenade" in short is about a washed-up opera singer in Tijuana who hooks up with a fiery Aztec prostitute who resurrects his singing talent (yeah, right) and they both trek back to Carnegie Hall where the singer's former concertmaster/gay lover stalks him, only to get an Aztec warrior's sword through the heart from the whore. Strong stuff? Cain wrote it in 1937, which means he's crazier and cooler than all of us. One of the greatest books I've ever read!
I am awarding this a rare 5-star rating.This is my favorite Cain novel read to date. Absolutely brilliant. Oddly enough, this is the only Cain novel where I cared for the characters. I wanted the guy to get the girl, keep the girl, and live happily ever after. The subtleties given the characters were nuanced and real. And the ending is to die for. I highly recommend this book. I can't wait to read it again.
Serenade: 2 and 1/2 stars. This one was pretty wacky. I'd never heard of a hard-boiled novel starring an opera singer before. Lots of talk about singing, opera and composers, as well as Mexican prostitues and sex. I give a half star for the author's sheer audacity in writing it.
(Johnny is at his best when he's scheming, so his mini-speech on how to run a brothel while conning American businessmen into thinking they're having no-strings-attached hook-ups instead of paying for it is as genuinely likable as he gets in the entire novel.) Unfortunately, Johnny is the worst human being alive, so instead of helping Juana, he proceeds to effectively devote the rest of the book to ruining her life.Essentially, reading Serenade is like the experience of having someone with excellent hardboiled noir instincts and prose and a slightly unfortunate opera fixation relay to you the fever dream they had about their gay panic and their bad trip to Mexico.
I recently stumbled on it, and having seen movie versions of two of the three novels, I opted to read "Serenade," the movie version of which (starring Mario Lanza) I haven't seen.
This is pulp, and the attitudes in the book, however offensive, not only strike me as rooted in character but as reflective of 1937, when "Serenade" was published.
I much prefer this book to the Jim Thompson novels I've read.
I love violence almost as much as I love having a high IQ.") The next time I have a hankering for pulp (and I don't have it often), I'll have to reach for Cain and give Thompson a pass.
Serenade, first published in 1937, is hands down one of the best novels I've read this year, and I never wanted it to end.
Cain and particularly from his wonderful novel, Serenade.
As an aside, I find it interesting that the readers on this site are fairly evenly split on this novel with about half of the readers really liking the book, while the other half generally didn't care for it all.
This novel deals with some tough issues, to be sure, which were written about from Cain's late-1930s perspective and context.
A peculiar book, read over a period of two months (when it could have been read in a shorter time) with good stuff - some kind of "noir" atmosphere and you kind of wanna know how it ends - but with some clearly racist and homophobic shit.
Let's say it's because it was written in such a time (the 40's or 50's if I remember).
Both main characters are not entirely loveable but Juana is more complex and interesting I guess.
If you're not scared to be spoiled, check out this other review which tells all about the book: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Don't know if I'm ever going to read another book by this author, given how crazy this one was..!
Anyway, tension forms between the girlfriend and this producer, ex-boyfriend character, and tragedy ensues.This book was just all over the place and in the end, I wasn't sure if it was anti-gay and bigoted as it seemed, or if the overt bigotry of the main character was all some kind of ironic commentary.
Then, I was actually pretty impressed with the homosexuality in the book, which was handled in a way that seemed positively broad-minded after the way the Mexicans and women in general were treated.
The guy he had been in love with is killed by the girlfriend.
Opera singer John Howard Sharp is a self-loathing homosexual who wants to believe he is like any other man.
Unfortunately for John, he has met that special someone, and it turns out that homosexual activity has the little-known side effect of ruining a man's ability to sing.
Therefore, John takes drastic measures, raping his way back into the world of heterosexuality and thereby reclaiming his singing voice.
When his rape victim falls in love with him, all seems right with his world, until his gay ex-lover turns out to be an effete but vengeful predator.
I picked up Serenade after being impressed by The Post Man Always Rings Twice, Double Indemnity, and Mildred Pierce.
Noir of the '30s and '40s, unfortunately, conveyed racism as acceptable and literature worthy.
Sometimes it achieves a gritty and edgy flavor, but Serenade quickly becomes an annoying rant about everything Mexican.
I do admit some of Cain's factoids about Mexicans made me laugh: "Luckily, we all know Mexicans can hardly read." *Check myself, yup still Mexican and reading this.*The front cover proudly states, "No one has ever stopped in the middle of one of Jim Cain's books." Challenge accepted and accomplished.
Pretty rough - story hinges on a relationship that starts with rape and ends with killing a person for being gay and the whole thing is just wildly racist all over. So too *PROBLEMATIC* to really enjoy an otherwise neat story about a down-and-out opera singer regaining his voice. YOU HEAR THAT, BOOK FROM 1937? YOU HAVE SOME REAL BASIC ISSUES THAT PREVENT YOU FROM BEING ANYTHING LESS THAN AWFUL. YOU HEAR ME, PRE-WAR PULP NOVEL? YOU HEAR THIS?
This might well be the most underrated book in 20th Century American Literature. Serenade is a pyrotechnic and operatic page turner that grabs you by the throat and doesn't let you go until the last sentence. And even then, it doesn't let you go: the way-ahead-of-its-time carnal sexuality shocking you long after you've put it back on the shelf..or have forced it on some unsuspecting friends.
Pushes toward five stars, but not recently-read enough for full review. Stands out from even the above-average run of pulp & noir as a unique conception, a weird remix of the standard elements, very intriguing.
But shock is a legitimate artistic tool, and, reading the whole book, the overall impression I have is that Cain wanted to show that society does choose to crush the weak.
A year after Cain's novel, Graham Greene started writing a novel about a priest traversing Mexico in an attempt to elude anti-celerical authorities.
The part of SERENADE set in the US focuses at some length on an attempt to have an illegal alien (the narrator's heterosexual love interest) deported.
As dated as this novel is, its treatment of the dilemma of an illegal alien resonates today.Cain's masterpiece, MILDRED PIERCE, published five years after SERENADE, is a far more disciplined work.
I enjoyed this book but I liked Mildred Pierce and Double Indemnity better.
Cain's knowledge and feeling for the musical world is clearly evident in this story of a famous opera singer, a young conductor and a Mexican-Indian prostitute.
This book is a great love story of John Howard Sharp, an American opera singer, falling in love with Juana, a Mexican prostitute.
I look forward to reading The Postman Always Rings Twice and hope to find a few more of his books.
I would highly recommend this book to those who like classic, noir stories.
Beautifully written, thoroughly gripping - and completely bonkers.



Quite unusual and quite good.
Settings range from Mexico to Hollywood to New York and back to Mexico.
Has some of the Cain-like flavor of The Postman Always Rings Twice.
Hero is a washed-up classical singer who has lost his voice but finds it again after falling in love with a Mexican woman.
A very surprising range of activities and events -- a bit far-fetched, but not too-too.
Very caustic about Hollywood movie moguls .
Cain was said to have not liked Hollywood, so it shows.In summary, this seems to be the least well-known of the Cain novels, but shouldn't be neglected.
i picked up this book at a thrift store, one of the original pressings of it and thought that it was a find.
i absolutely loved the grit of double indemnity and the postman always rings twice.
i thought that this would be the same, but instead i found a book rife with racial epithets and racial slants and a ridiculous amount of loathing, both of the world and himself.
it seemed like a reflection of the author and not of the character in the book.
i was sorely disappointed in this book becaus ei expected it to be more than a lower-rent john fante.
James goes into a funk on this one. I did not like the structure or the characters. It did evoke my adventures in Acapulco when I was a student in Mexico. I liked the book from the atmosphere created. Cain was a music aficionado and knew a lot about it. So, that's another interesting aspect of Serenade.
This is not the usual James M. Cain passion/murder. In Serenade there is some passion, and there is a murder, both in a lighter vein. Decades ago there was film made of the book, starring Mario Lanza. The film did not do the book justice; it was pretty awful. I gave the book 4 stars because of Cain's style, which I love.
I like the craziness that the best "noir" writers--for lack of a better pigeonhole--inject into their works. It abounds here. You can tell that no one, his own superego included, is standing over him with a political-correctness grease pencil, ready to redact his take on ethnicities and cultures.He stays true to his characters.
