https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1018538.The_Golden_Torc
Honour means different things to different cultures and May exploits those differences masterfully.I love May’s involvement of geology in this book, and the couple of appearances by plesiosaurs!
Despite the fact that we’re pretty sure that those massive marine reptiles didn’t live in the Pliocene, but still, plesiosaurs!We also discover that becoming psychically operant is not for the faint-hearted, there is pain involved and even necessary for that transformation.
Also an interesting revelation: Mercy (the woman who drew the anthropologist Bryan into exile) has been genetically tested and though she came from the future, she is almost full-blooded Tanu.
The scope of this saga spanning eight novels is staggering.
The initial four books make up The Saga of Pliocene Exile.
* The Many-Coloured Land * The Golden Torc * The Nonborn King * The AdversaryThese can be read as a standalone series, but who would want to stop there?The “bridge” book deals with first contact and the emergence of humans with “supernatural” powers such as telekinesis.
The settings, especially in Exiles are fabulous.Unfortunately, the US covers are beyond awful, but don’t be put off by that.
Storyline: 3/5Characters: 2/5Writing Style: 3/5World: 3/5I really enjoyed the series first, The Many-Colored Land, and looked with anticipation to reading this one.
Structurally, however, I was pleased that only half this story was a retelling.
I suspect there were hidden gems in the descriptions of geography and topography that were lost on me.I still like the series but am less enamored with May than I was after the first reading.
I did like that the story came to a satisfactory resolution here.
I know that there are more to the series, and I'll read them to see what new problems and adventures are conjured next.
Three races fight for dominance in Pliocene Europe.  Premise : Several million years ago, two factions of a dimorphic alien race took shelter on the most compatible planet: earth. Fast-forward to the 22nd century, where not all humans are happy with the speed of progress and intergalactic relations with various “exotic” races. Several “misfit” humans portal back to Pliocene Europe to escape their own time. Ironically, these time-traveling refugees of the future must now battle aliens for their v
The saga of the human and alien refugees continues in this second book of the Pliocene Exile.
As a result, humans with strong mental abilities, such as the madcap trickster Aiken Drum (who always keeps things interesting) or the totally boring but insanely powerful Elizabeth are highly sought after as Tanu mates.So, basically the premise rocks.
I like reading from the perspective of a small cast anyway, but these books aren’t large enough to fully explore their 8+ character arcs.(3) My third complaint is totally subjective and likely connected to my first complaint, above; but it bothers me that love is never a “great power,” in this series.
A race of aliens crash landed on Earth and dominate the era, using humans in their fight between their two factions, the Tanu and the Firvalug.
Torcs control the populace and enhance physic power, creating a world of slavery and magic.In the first book, a group of humans are taken by the aliens and begin discover their own limitations and powers.
Some side with the Tanu, some with the Firvalug, some fight to be independent.
In the second book, the same group are drawn into ever more complicated intrigues and the fight for humanity begins.I loved the style, the plot, the characters.
A great sequel where the characters fates are enlarged upon after their jounrey through the time gate.Well thought out and great continuity and flow.Doesn't lose pace and follows on well from where it left off from the first novel.
Good 2nd book in the series. The story to me picks up and flows somewhat better than the first book. Nice SiFi and fantasy blend. Recommended
Excellent "old school" fantasy, following on nicely from the scene-setting first book (The Many-Coloured Land) and sprawling in all directions with alien-race society/politics, rebel human shenanigan, individual stories and big wild-card characters such as the cocky Aiken Drum and the "troubled" Felice. All woven together well, never dragging and with a vein of humour running through. Now looking forward to book 3...
It’s an action-packed chunkster, providing the reader with information and new settings without ever feeling like an info-dump.
Creating a medieval world of aliens on ancient Earth is probably the most brilliant part of the book, followed closely by the idea of torcs enhancing the brain’s abilities.
In spite of the action, sometimes the book did feel overly long, with long descriptions of vegetation and scenery far away from where most of the action was taking place.The book is full of characters but every single one of them manages to come across as a unique person, even the ones who are not on-screen long enough to be fully three-dimensional.
She is neither Tanu nor Firvulag, but a mixture of both, coming from a separate world in the Tanu galaxy where the split between Tanu and Firvulag did not occur.Madame Guderian and Claude manage to seal the Time Portal to prevent more humans coming through, but Aiken Drum betrays the rest of his fellows who plan to attack the Torc factory.Felice, tortured by Culluket the Interrogator, is forced into operancy, but driven insane.The time of the Great Combat approaches but it seems that even within the Tanu and Firvulag ranks there are those who are tiring of the old traditions.Brede, having foreseen what is to come, rescues the rebels from their dungeon.
We follow this crew up until the timeline catches up to the end of book one, at which point we go back to hopping between the two groups.This is where The Golden Torc starts to feel a little different than The Many Colored Land.
It wasn’t days before he met his savior-love that he was hoping the Tanu had baseball-bat sized peckers and that they’d use them against a very unwilling Felice.This tradition of men behaving in, my opinion, unrealistic ways continues into The Golden Torc, though perhaps to a lesser degree.
And that is where the book picks up.So, the reader finds themselves backwards in time before the rebel uprising at the end of The Many-Colored Land to catch up with Bryan, Aiken Drum, Elizabeth, and the 'Viking' Stein.
and Stein is caught up in Aiken's story.These characters are followed until the beginning of the Grand Truce, after which we are reunited with our other intrepid time-travelers as they prepare to carry out the final phases of their revolution to free humankind from Tanu control.
The humans from the group focused upon in the first novel are continuing to make a large contribution to the alien society they have found themselves in.
Aiken Drum is insinuating himself into the highest echelons of society; Elizabeth is trying not to let the Tanu take advantage of her newly recovered mental capacity; Richard is still seeking Mercy (who in fact has married one of the Tanu aristocracy); Claude and Felice are with the rebel "Low-Lifes".The novel builds to a climax at the annual battle between the Tanu and Firvulag; a variety of schemes involving the different members of the group are set to come to fruition at the tournament.
Finished this a while back as part of my summer commitment to read more SFF.
Julian May really caught me by surprise--I hadn't heard of her until I read Chabon's paean to tricksters and SFF in Maps and Legends (which I also recommend).
This book starts to weave back together the fates of Group Green, and if you're even half-attentive to Irish myth, you'll enjoy the character work.
A good mix of SF with the major fantasy elements, and well-plotted, even if I found myself having to work to keep track of some of the Tanu character names in a few spots.
Rereading this since years and it has become clear that part 1 and 2 of the Saga of the Pliocene Exile belong to the same story and could have been published in 1 part.
Many story lines take place in parallel and it is just waiting for the big clash to happen that seals the deal of the 2 books.
Basically you expect something big as a result of the disturbance in the balance the Exiles brought with them.
In book 1 the raid of Finiah is just foreplay, in the concluding Chapters of book 2 the real deal happens.I just love this series.
As with the first book in the Saga of Exiles series, this—the second—is remarkable for its meticulous and absorbing world-building.
I did feel, however, that all the detail rather obscured the plot, which was slow to unfold and not sufficiently signposted.
Often, I found myself enjoying the scenery without knowing where I was going.
There are a lot of characters—a LOT—which made it difficult to remember who was who and tough to feel any sense of engagement.
Definitely, I enjoyed it more than THE MANY COLOURED LAND (which I also enjoyed) and am sufficiently hooked to continue on to the third book, THE NON BORN KING.
Exotic aliens with mind numbing and creative psychic powers enslave humans who have time travelled six million years into the past.
And this book (2/4) describes the buildup to the great combat that takes place on silver plains between effectively elves and goblins.
Shape shifting, fireballs, betrayal, love, prophecy, challenge, score sheets and pesky humans combine with a great inundation that washes many characters clean away.
Pulling on Celtic myths, playing fast and loose with geology, and generating Machiavellian plots means that this book is a lot of fun to read, and sets things up nicely for book three of the series.
Me ha gustado menos que el anterior, pero era de esperar cuando no hay el elemento sorpresa.Esta vez se ha centrado más en acción fantástica típica y menos en la amalgama de consecuencias temporales, mucho más interesantes que no la típica super batalla de final de libro.No me acaba de gustar lo que hace con ciertos personajes, especialmente lo de volver inútiles a unos mientras otros se vuelven super poderosisisimos de las maneras más incómodas. Y a ver si para el 3o ya abandona a los cansinos de Stein y Sukey, que no le interesan a nadie, coñe.
As with the previous book, my memory made this seem better than it is.
2.5 stars for this one; it's a more focused book and more enjoyable for that.
But Stein continues to be toxic as hell, making his wife break down and then against her will shutting off her mental powers, because she might use them to talk to people other than him.
Fortunately, he essentially will not reappear after the end of this book when (somehow) his wife is happy with him.
Well, I finally got there.Lots of twists and turns, unexpected deaths, many anger inducing moments and characters whom I'm still not sure if I like or not.Changing the tone slightly from the first book, The Golden Torc brings groups together with politics, nasty manoeuvres and back stabbing. And it all comes to a head with the Great Combat between Tanu and Firvulag. Expect the unexpected, betrayal and lies in order to survive and win the grand schemes of many players.Read for more of the Saga of the Exiles.
Seguito della Terra dai Molti Colori, ne prosegue la storia; si tratta di un filone molto interessante e poco esplorato, in cui vengono inserite molte riflessioni che sono ancora valide tutt'oggi a distanza di trenta o quarant'anni.In particolare, è interessante la riflessione su come si pongano gli alieni dominanti rispetto alla popolazione umana che ha varcato i confini della porta del tempo; le analogie con la situazione italiana del 2018 sono evidenti e fanno riflettere.Peccato che ogni tanto la narrazione non sia il massimo della chiarezza.
Mind bending and spellbindingI often find books that books that I read years ago don't capture my interest the second time around. Not so with the saga of the exiles which maintains the blistering yet well paced narrative of the latter stages of the previous book. Nice details though subject to the revision of paleontology and anthropology with a good dollop of old Irish and Celtic myth chucked in for good measure.
enjoying these books a lot more than i expected. the saga of the exciles has a element of fantasy super imposed on science fiction. Not minding that they do need to be read together to make for a complete story, but that is because I have them all.
A disappointing read after the first book. I am not sure if I want to read a third although I am curious about what happens next. The first book was a goodread, but this one lacks cohesion, has too many bizaare & confusing characters & the plot gets lost.
I liked this trilogy a lot. But I read it ages ago.
3 1/2 stars
So much good world building, with attention to the mythical detail that made it so clever. One series I always enjoy re-reading. RIP Julian May
One of the best parts of the Pliocene space opera with a great ending.
Kurz gesagt eine weitere Verbesserung der soziokulturellen Betrachtugen des ersten Bandes der Tetralogie.Besonders hervorzuheben ist die weitergehende Charakterentwicklung und die weiterhin sehr tiefe Zeichnung von neuen Charakteren - auch wenn diese Antagonisten sind, werden sie mit viel Liebe zum Detail dargestellt.
Diese beziehen sich vor allem auf einige sehr langatmige Stellen, die für den weiteren Verlauf der Geschichte nicht notwendig sind und kaum neue Details entwickeln.
Literarisch hoch interessant, verlangt es vom Leser jedoch sehr viel Arbeit immer alle Handlungsstränge abrufbereit zu haben.Insgesamt kann man sagen, dass das Buch natürlich weiterhin eine Empfehlung bleibt, schließlich empfehle ich ja den ganzen Zyklus, man muss sich allerdings an einigen Stellen auf mühsame Strecken einstellen.
The story itself is more involved and entertaining than the first volume but May manages to manhandle the European lore motif until it's less like reading a sci-fi/fantasy novel and more like a college level mythology class.
Of those not being used in her mythological motif, she leaves no one to encourage the reader to read the next volume and completely ruins them past any human identification with their problems.I don't like any of these people.
I want to truthfully be able to say I did read the series.So much more could have been done with this story-rich environment!
