https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16900.Civil_Disobedience_and_Other_Essays
Of course, if enough people did it then you'd see things happen; I notice that Mexicans are already starting to boycott Mcdonalds and Starbucks.
The app takes care of that; it has a crowdsourced database of information which lets it quickly decide that Brand X will send 34% of the money you pay to the US, but Brand Y only 12%.
Once again, needless to say, patriots could use it in reverse.There's already a primitive app to boycott Trump businesses.
Please let me know if you come across anything interesting._______________________Thinking more about what I can do here, the subject of international conferences occurs.
Before I forget, something must be said.My lovely husband, who doesn't enjoy reading, only recommended two books to me, which are 1984, and this one.
While reading  I am Martin Luther King Jr , a children's book, to my daughter his worked was mentioned to have influenced Mr. King.
Eventually, I thought it was a sign for me to read his work.
Therefore, I would have to re-read sentences, because I wasn't really retaining the information.At the end, I can see why my husband admires Henry David Thoreau, and I think I have a greater understanding what he thinks about society, and life.
My censored review of this classic call to arms can now be seen at my personal blog.It is a shame that this kind of thought-policing is okay with so many people. "I don't want to think about it" is a fast way not to have permission to think. At all. But I suppose that's okay with a lot of people.
Carried out, it finally amounts to this, which also I believe—"That government is best which governs not at all"; and when men are prepared for it, that will be the kind of government which they will have.
Government is at best but an expedient; but most governments are usually, and all governments are sometimes, inexpedient.
The objections which have been brought against a standing army, and they are many and weighty, and deserve to prevail, may also at last be brought against a standing government.
The standing army is only an arm of the standing government.
Not too sure what I just read but it did have the occasional interesting point I guess...
Written for days past, written for today.
Thoreau's discontent with the government is a present issue around the world...
So many of our legislators, as in Thoreau's time, are not skilled at legislation and are so disconnected from the people and our needs.
I think the title of the mini-book leads some to believe that Thoreau is completely anti-government - not true.
He says time and again that a government that is worthy of his respect is one that he will live under.
He also points out some of the good of the government of his time.
This:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...

Civil Disobedience: 5 starsSlavery in Massachusetts: 5 starsA Plea for Captain John Brown: 4 starsWalking: 3 starsLife without Principle: 4 stars
I hope my review makes me look "intelligent" and "dark" for potential love interests....Anyways, heres some good quotes and points of the reading, like anyone gives a shit.
fuck it, I need another drink...Because I know you wont read this book, because you're a lazy pseudo-intellect who wrote a paper in college that you thought was "great" on something no one cares about and have wasted your money (or parents money) and life up to this point; I have made it simple and convenient for you.
Read the quotes to get the idea of the book.
However, though the ideals are as clearly presented as any essay one could read today, the concepts inherent in this work are not even remotely possible.
It struck me as almost amusing that Thoreau would have gladly gone to jail for his principles, but jail, and indeed all of institutions of the United States of America, would be unrecognizable in its present state to our founding fathers and those who first conceived of the notion of liberty.
Those who ran the jails in Massachusetts during his one day of confinement, released him happily, knowing he was simply a man who must espouse his principles, a man who posed no threat to his fellow man.
He has some wonderful essays, although it must be remembered that he had few personal responsibilities & no family to support. He was too self-centered for a wife & children. I believe he is sincere, if impractical. I think he draws the lines rather tight for the real world some times, but maybe it is that attitude that allowed things to go so wrong since his day...I've seen him labeled an Anarchist, but I believe he was a Libertarian. He wanted a better government that needed to govern less.
no que haya una sola cosa que yo pueda opinar sobre desobediencia civil que pueda mover a alguien a leerlo, así que mejor una cita:"la meta de un buen gobierno es darle más valor a la vida; la de un mal gobierno, restarle valor."
And as they live and rule only by their servility, and appealing to the worst, and not the better nature of man, the people who read them are in the condition of the dog that returns to his vomit (from Slavery in Massachusetts).”Thoreau, in all his critiques of government, speaks not merely to government, for in fact, I’m sure he would argue that government cannot listen for it does not exist.
I was inspired to read this after visiting the Martin Luther King Junior memorial in Atlanta.
Gandhi and MLK we’re both inspired by the ideas presented in Civil Disobedience.
My main takeaway is this...Question everything.
Don’t take government as infallible truth.
While Democracy is clearly the best form of government thus far in history, it is not perfect.
If a government doesn’t grow, flex, and scale with societal and technological changes, it’s brittleness will cause it to break, similar to how a startup can disrupt an incumbent enterprise.
As an American, I can take a stand against what I believe to be wrong with the State.
Libro clásico sobre la desobeddiencia civil y cómo nos la razona Thoreau tal como él la practicó. Laesclavitud era legal en su día y él, aparte de criticarlo, llegó a negarse a pagar unos impuestos que iban a fomentar cosas que él afirmaba injustas.Un clásico que vale la pena conocer. Un adelantado a su época.
Anyway, the point of this rant is, I very much wonder if 'Life Without Principle' is taught in school.-"There is no more fatal blunderer than he who consumes the greater part of his life getting his living." I very much doubt that something with these sentiments is taught to children today.-Thoreau, railing against the 1% in 1863.-Things I have learned about Thoreau: he didn't like paying his taxes, being indoors, slavery, or goldmining."It requires more than a day's devotion to know and to possess the wealth of a day."-"The newspapers are the ruling power." THIS WAS WRITTEN IN 1863.Much like Civil Disobedience I was expecting this to be on a broader topic, maybe something a bit more cohesive, but in execution it was kind of a meandering series of observations.
It teaches us to appreciate life and nature.
He is blessed over all mortals who loses no moment of the passing life in remembering the past.
His philosophy comes down to a more recent time than ours.
There is something suggested by it that is a newer testament, -- the gospel according to the moment.
It is an expression of the health and soundness of Nature, a brag for all the world, -- healthiness as of a spring burst forth, a fountain of the Muses, to celebrate this last instant of time.Or as Bob Dylan put it more recently, "That he not busy being born is busy dying."
Wow. I really was interested to read this, but he comes off as a self-important ass. Either he knew very little about his world, or his ideas do not hold up to the test of time at all - each page is easy to disprove, and his ideas on liberty are dangerously myopic, possibly contradictory - he wants everything from government but refuses to give it anything (and I don't mean money). I would be surprised if anyone besides Libertarians who have a thought out position in politics could find this worth considering.
I only read the Civil Disobedience essay. I'm having trouble thinking of anything to say other than "What an insufferable prat Thoreau must have been." A long-winded essay in which he (correctly) finds fault with a government that supports slavery and the Mexican American War, and explains that the only possible solution is to not pay your taxes.
Despicable. Insipid. Nauseating. I could go on like this for a minute, but doubt you really need me to. Reading this at 15 set me up for a lifetime of not ever wanting to sound like Henry David Thoreau.
Interesting thoughts beginning with first sentence "That government is best which governs least" from John L O'Sullivan. It is thought provoking of the injustices that governments condone and how as individuals should handle issues. First printed in 1849.
I love the essay Civil Disobedience. This is probably the 10th time I've read it, and I still always learn something new from it that I didn't quite grasp before.
Love Thoreau, whether he's talking about nature or politics. Yay transcendentalism!
dusting up this old book. Checking out a few side-lines aspects
Građanski neposluh
It had not only been the home of many influential characters over the years, but it had also become an influential character in and of itself as the hub of innovative ideas, such as the aforementioned transcendentalist movement as well as prominent liberal (as we use the term today), Unitarianism.It was here in the town of Concord where Thoreau chose to take a stand against his country and the state of Massachusetts by refusing to pay taxes in protest to the fighting of Mexico for the annexation of Texas, widely assumed to increase slave territory.
Review of Civil Disobedience by Henry David Thoreau Thoreau organizes his thoughts in a way that is very disorienting. His flow seems to be from one thought to the next with no in between of making a specific point. Regardless of his eloquence which is widely celebrated, becuase of this organization style I feel I may not have rightly grasped his thoughts although I did make an earnest attempt to do so. Here is what I’ve gathered:Thoreau is a very passive anarchist. He watches the state go by, p
He watches the state go by, participates in it to the least extent he possibly can, and tries to educate his fellows that they need not participate.
He despises the insitution of slavery, and more specifically the perpetuation of it by the state.
He critiques his fellow citizen in that they claim to be anti-slavery, yet openly participate in the state and industries which perpetuate its institution.
Thoreau isn’t hesitant to criticize his fellow man in any way.
Equally, the individualist mindset of freedom he lays out is based entirely on the natural good of freed human beings.
From the second we started reading "Walden" by Thoreau in English of my junior year, I loved his writing.
I think they just couldn't understand an outside of the box point of view from someone who thought completely differently than anyone of his time, and anyone of today.
I don't think Thoreau would be able to handle today's world, since he was writing about his world in the 1800s and how everyone was so obsessed with constantly working and hustling around every minute of every day.
He was definitely ahead of his time, and I wish there were more people like him around today.
