https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/647492.Ordinary_Men
This was a bunch of middle-aged guys who were unfit for military service, so they were given an easier job, which was to shoot Jewish people and bury them in woods (okay, the last bit could be hard, but generally you could get the Jewish people to do all the digging before you shot them).This was the pre-industrial phase of the Holocaust, before the purpose-built death camps at Treblinka, Sobibor and Belzec were opened for business.
schnell!" with the big Alsation dogs at all, it was these middle-aged police reserve guys, your local baker, pharmacist or gardener, just your regular guys.
Non solo “assassini da tavolino”, ma esecutori materiali, gente che dovette letteralmente immergersi nel sangue delle vittime uccise a bruciapelo.Il battaglione di polizia 101.Browning analizza i verbali degli interrogatori postbellici di 210 uomini che avevano fatto parte del Battaglione 101: 500 poliziotti riservisti (uomini comuni per l’appunto, come dice il titolo della sua ricerca storica), che fra il 13 luglio 1942 e il 5 novembre 1943 assassinarono una per una circa 38.000 persone in Europa orientale, e parteciparono al rastrellamento e alla deportazione a Treblinka di altri 45.000 Ebrei.
Arrivo di ebrei deportati ad Auschwitz-Birkenau nel maggio 1944.Browning si domanda: che cosa pensavano, mentre partecipavano alla ‘soluzione finale’?
When someone makes a grab for power like that someone is going to get royally fucked, history says.Browning's work looks at how "Ordinary Men", middle aged Germans who were not professional killers, who did not roam about the countryside shooting civilians by birth for mirth, became well oiled killing machines for the Nazis.
It doesn't mean that another wouldn't.In the back of my mind while reading 'Ordinary Men' I had the thought that these German men felt about the Jews the way that many elsewhere in the world would feel for prison inmates.
Having said this, Christopher Browning’s Ordinary Men is an integral read for those of us trying to make sense of the Holocaust.
I decided to read Browning’s book because I wanted more insight into the psyche of the monsters that were ordered to carry out Hitler’s final solution.
Trapp told the enlisted men that they could be excused if they could not take part in the firing squads and then he went to an office and bawled like a baby.
These policemen certainly would not have carried out these massacres without orders to do so.
Browning's book is based on interviews with the participants collected after the war.Not everyone blindly followed orders.
One later testified he killed only children because his partner was shooting the mothers and he did not think it was right that children should grow up without mothers.The horrifying aspect of this account is how little it took for these men to become transformed psychologically from "normal" people into willing participants.
Bureaucrats never saw the hideous result of their actions, seeing only their small paper-shuffling role.That still does not explain the actions of the men who were doing the actual killing.
Christopher Browning, one of the better known Holocaust scholars today, used evidence from the post-war investigations of Police Battalion 101 to create an image of the "ordinary men" who participated in the massacre of Jews in Eastern Europe.
He approaches the subject with an easy-to-follow framework, providing a balanced look at how the battalion went from routine duties in occupied territories to the violent slaughter of Jewish civilians.Throughout Ordinary Men, Browning provides a window into the daily life of the unit and its purpose in the hierarchy and structure of the Third Reich.
The often personal glimpses demonstrate the slow and methodical change in Nazi policy towards Jewish civilians, as the German leadership shifted towards the Final Solution.
An account of the atrocities committed by the men of Reserve Police Battalion 101 of the German Order police in Poland during WW2.
Any book that seeks to go behind the scenes of Nazi killing units faces the problem that the men involved invariably lie about their experience.
This is very much the case here, with most of the men claiming after the war that they did their best to help Jews.
Provide some detail of their lives before the war, which this book doesn't do.
The men in this book are just names.
The other 200 pages were of considerably less interest for me.
Whenever you heard people ask, "How could someone do something like that?" and the topic is genocide, this book provides the answers. Drawing on psychology, sociology, and lots of direct testimony, Browning explains how the need of individuals to conform to group expectations can result in horrendous acts of evil.
While Browning's book was apparently a serious academic volley in the world of Holocaust studies, it strikes me as very measured and commonsense.
Here, in their own words, are a bunch of people who did what they were told, because that's what they were told to do-- and we can ask why they didn't question it, but speculation is all you'll come up with.
Recently, a lovely afternoon in the killing fields of Cambodia and a bus stop in the middle of a pogrom in progress in Myanmar have confirmed that I'm on Browning's side in this debate.
A book and approach (the 'functionalist' approach to the Holocaust) with which I am quite out of sympathy. According to this view, adopted also by Broszat and Hans Mommsen, the Holocaust was not planned, but came about almost by accident, as local administrators tried to deal with the excess of refugees, and the like. In my opinion, which is certainly only that of the semi-educated layman, this is complete and utter B.S.I say that with all due respect to Mr. Browning, of course...
This book takes on that question as regards the members of a German Reserve Police Battalion who participated, often directly, in the murder of over 85,000 Jews, Soviets, Poles and other 'undesirables', many of them women and children, during WWII.
Of course, I do so in the sense that I pay taxes and generally don't think all that much about the violence and criminality committed in my name.
Although I do my bit, here and there, to try to stop or at least mitigate such crimes, although I work by reading such books as this to remain conscientious, it is never enough.
What makes seemingly normal people commit unforgiveable acts of evil? The men of RPB 101 were just middle-aged German men who participated in mass shootings as well as rounding up Jews for deportation to Nazi death camps in Poland in 1942. Even more horrifying is that they were not fanatical Nazis - so how did they come to gaze so deeply into the abyss? Christopher R. Browning presents us with an explanation that is informed, original and disturbing.
The title says it. Homo sum, humani nihil a me alienum puto.I can’t weigh this against other books on the subject; I came to it as a classic case study that accepts the ordinary person in the perpetrator of historical atrocities, whom we tend to distance, essentialise, and see as inherently ‘unlike us’ by one stratagem or other.
A Thought-Provoking ReadI think more than almost any other book I’ve read in the past year or two, Ordinary Men caused an immense amount of introspection and decision in my life. I highly recommend it to anyone who thinks they are a good person. It will change their mind.
Of all the books on the reading list for my Ideologies of the Holocaust class, this one is undoubtedly my favorite. It's a must read for anyone intrigued by the Holocaust, especially, in the "ordinary men" who carried out Hitler's orders and committed the infamously heinous crimes.
Ordinary Men asks what happens to the people who perpetuate a genocide.The 'someone' in Ordinary Men were the men of Reserve Police Battalion 101, about 500 middle-aged, working-class men from Hamburg.
By the time the unit left Poland for Russia 18 months later, they had been party to something like 80,000 murders.The point is not that Reserve Police Battalion 101 was made of monsters.
Decide that the tough thing to do, the necessary thing to do as a group, is to shoot a defenseless human being in a shallow grave, and ordinary men will do it, and do it gladly.Oh, and what happened to the men of Reserve Police Battalion 101?
(While Browning does not mention it, the man in charge of “Harvest Festival,” Christian Wirth, was instrumental in the Aktion T4 program, the Nazi killing of the handicapped that preceded and smoothed the path for the Holocaust.) “For a battalion of less than 500 men, the ultimate body count was at least 83,000 Jews.”Reading all this is exhausting, even in a fairly short book.
Each of us can be Cain.The only explanation that Browning rejects outright is that the actions of Battalion 101, and of all those who killed Jews in the Holocaust, were the result of some uniquely evil strain in the German psyche, springing from centuries of anti-Semitism as the core defining element of German culture.
Browning starts off with this claim that he is going to analyze and explain why 'ordinary men' become killers and I feel he really failed to do that.
I don't remember his name.) Due to Browning's lack of a real reason, I would tend to agree with other guy's point even though I haven't read it.
I would have been interested to read other guy's account and get both sides of the story, but if Browning's claims about his evidenciary use can be believed, I'm a bit afraid to be dragged into something I know is largely faked.
Based on testimony given in the 1960s the author draws out the way in which these men approached and dealt with the systematic murder of Jews in Poland.The police unit was formed from men unsuitable for the regular army, taken from one German city - Hamburg- and represented a cross section of society.It shows how the men were affected differently by this heinous crime - some became efficient and enthusiastic killers, some refused or avoided the tasks, but most went along with it.
What we do not see is admission of race hate, as the policemens testimony could have lead to serious punishment.
The opinions were well thought out.
It’s one thing to write a book that’s completely factual and write it in a way that keeps the audience interested.
It’s another thing to write so poorly that members of the audience who are interested in the topic become completely uninterested in the book itself because it’s not well-written.
Sure, that’s all well and good for an article in a journal, but as part of the book itself it just seemed more inflammatory and butthurt (excuse my less-than-scholarly language, but it’s true) than mature and well-reasoned.
A disturbing but essential read for any student of the human condition.
However, given that Eichmann spearheaded some of the key initiatives of the murder of 6 million Jews during the Holocaust, I have argued that he was quite extraordinary: extraordinarily sociopathic and evil.
In Ordinary Men: Reserve Police Battalion 101 and the Final Solution in Poland (New York: Harper Perennial, 1993) historian Christopher R.
Browning reveals the true nature of the banality of evil by recounting the transformation of members of the Order Police, the Police Battalion 101, from regular men to brutal killers.
And yet, Browning notes, remarkably, only 12 out of the 500 men in Reserve Police Battalion 101 opted not to shoot innocent people.
He used these to explain how "ordinary men" could commit the crimes of the holocaust and what made those men different from us.
A very interesting and informative book and one that I highly recommend.[return][return]One interesting thing was Browning's inclusion of an afterward in the paperback edition which responded to the publication of Hitler's Willing Executioners: Ordinary Germans and the Holocaust by Daniel Goldhagen.
Goldhagen's book drew in large part from the same records Browning used but came to vastly different conclusions.
Goldhagen concluded that ordinary Germans took part in the holocaust because they had historically hated Jews (obviously an oversimplification of his argument).
In this book, Christopher Browning argues that men of Reserve Police Battalion were not necessarily indoctrinated into National Socialist ideology, and instead committed genocide as a result of mundane concerns--pride, career advancement, peer pressure, and sometimes racism without the rest of the baggage that comes with National Socialism.
This has broader implications, as it suggests that the Holocaust was not the result of an "authoritarian personality" or National Socialism as an ideology, but personal exigencies.
This perspective is further supported by numerous psychological tests, including Philip Zimbardo's notorious prison experiment.
As in the prison experiment, only about ~20% of the battalion refused to kill Jews.
This is very good, significantly better than "Hitler's Willing Executioners." The argument makes more sense, and the evidence is presented in a much more coherent manner.
But I can't really recommend that anyone read this unless you are devoted to studying the Holocaust.
It makes one weep for humanity.
Really, it is tough to read about war crimes all day.
I started to have nightmares about halfway through the book.
The sad thing is, it is probably important for humanity to be forced to face head-on the issues raised by this book.
But facing this stuff is so depressing.
Christopher Browning's 'Ordinary Men' is a concise, important contribution to Holocaust studies in which the author demonstrates a grasp of the existing body of scholarship on the subject and the documentary evidence. His final chapter and afterword -- in which he responds to Daniel Jonah Goldhagen's attacks on his scholarship -- are superb. These two chapters alone are worth the read.In my view, Browning's multi-layered, multi-causal interpretation of German history and the Holocaust is more persuasive and supported by the evidence than is Goldhagen's, whose book 'Hitler's Willing Executioners' is emotionally powerful but deeply flawed.
Christopher Browning's study of one Nazi police battalion, Ordinary Men, is disturbing not for its subject but for its implications for humanity. The story follows one battalion as they murder innocent men, women and children while acting as the mobile enforcement wing of the SS in completing the "final solution". The book studies how these men were turned into killers, and what their actions did to their psyches. Browning's research is impeccable and his results terrifying.NC
Skvělá práce o jednom rezervním policejním pluku, z nějž se jediným rozkazem stal nástroj holokaustu v Polsku. Aneb jak se tak přihodí, že dělník z Hamburku stojí nad masovým hrobem a kus po kuse tam posílá jednoho nebožáka za druhým. Obzvláště oceňuji kapitolu "Ordinary men" a doslov, kde je podle mne zcela přesvědčivě představena multikauzální interpretace dat (která původně pochází z výslechů přímých účastníků 101. pluku). Jediná chyba byla, že jsem tuhle knížku měl na nočním stolku a kapitolu po kapitole četl vždycky před spaním :)
The evil that men do arises from their need to fit in and to shirk accountability.
At first I thought this book deserved one star...after more consideration I have decided to give it two. This is probably one of the most boring books I've ever read about WWII, however, it does hold an important message.
