https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1699993.Whitefoot_the_Wood_Mouse
This brings back memories of my dad reading me these from the local news paper. Still as sweet as ever. Simple, but not dated.
Good book
As a young child, I would lose myself for hours in the simple world of the wood and pond inhabited by Little Joe Otter, Buster Bear, Grandfather Frog, and terrorized by Farmer Brown's Boy. I can remember the very shelf, even the exact spot in the little library in Felton, CA where these books were kept.
I do not recall if Old Man Coyote plays a role in Danny Field Mouse's story or the other way around, but this concept was presented several times.
Not much of a nature girl myself, I find books like these quite interesting to read.
It is a much more romantic way to learn about animals and birds than those nature documentaries.
Burgess creatures come alive as you read about them, but they are written in an almost fictional way.
Those by the way isn't what a wood mouse is, they are a different sort of fascinating creatures.
Young ones and old animal lovers will love this book.
Burgess writes in an old fashioned way, boring sometimes, but if you can get past that monotone mild adventures, it is a book I would recommend for tiny ones.
This was my first Thornton W. Burgess book. All his books have such wonder. Everyone should have a memory of reading these books as a child. In every adults life, they ought to have memories and haunts of the Green Forest, The Meadow, Mother West Wind, The Laughing Brook, and all other places. Also the animals, Peter the Rabbit, Joe the Otter, Reddy Fox...Such wonderful characters that help children nurture their imagination. I have such fond memories of reading these.
The Thornton Burgess books are wonderful for children who are just taking off on reading and are ready for beginning chapter books. They are all about the little creatures that live in and around the forest, meadow and streams. The characters you meet in one book will interact with the ones that you met in the last.There is a unit study for this book at White Foot the Wood mouse Unit Study
Sh*t! I'm going to be that parent. I line edited several scenes, took out all the "you, stupid's." In my defense, it was less of a reaction to the word stupid and more so how Burgess used this language to reinforce negative stereotypes of women. Here the female mouse is a nag, a complainer, etc.
There's a series of stories each focusing on a different animal in the forest. This one focuses on a mouse; there's a lot of escaping from predators. I liked it less than the others. Read the series to get the perspective for different animals. Fun to read aloud for up to 8 years old I think.
