https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1434105.Plum_Lucky
Book Review  4 of 5 stars to Plum Lucky, one of four "in-between" novellas in the "Stephanie Plum" mystery series, written in 2008 by Janet Evanovich. As if she didn't have enough already going on, Evanovich released several short books in between the various series she'd been writing, this time linking together Stephanie and Diesel, from one of her other book series. And as if Stephanie didn't have enough going on with Ranger and Morelli, now she's lusting after a possible ghost man. Well...
Book Review
4 of 5 stars to Plum Lucky, one of four "in-between" novellas in the "Stephanie Plum" mystery series, written in 2008 by Janet Evanovich.
As if she didn't have enough already going on, Evanovich released several short books in between the various series she'd been writing, this time linking together Stephanie and Diesel, from one of her other book series.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
I write A LOT.
Note: All written content is my original creation and copyrighted to me, but the graphics and images were linked from other sites and belong to them.
Many thanks to their original creators.
Diesel said, "This is how it's going to go down. Stephanie stays here, so we have someone to float bail if we all get arrested..." You know you're in trouble when you need to keep someone with bail money close by.I have a feeling I'm going to love this idea!So, this short story is absolutely hilarious. Grandma Mazur finds a bag of money and goes missing. Diesel is involved since he's in every half book, and he is quickly rising to become my favorite of Stephanie's men. "I am NOT an Everest kind
You know you're in trouble when you need to keep someone with bail money close by.I have a feeling I'm going to love this idea!So, this short story is absolutely hilarious.
"I am NOT an Everest kind of guy.
Everest is cold.
I'm more of a tropical breezes and palm trees swaying man."
I'm a tropical breezes and palm trees swaying girl!
My car was blown up and burned at the multiplex.""Do I need to know any gory details?""No. Everything's under control.
Diesel taped a garbage bag over the broken window, and the firebomb only singed the carpet a little.""Great," Morelli said.
A horse in an apartment? Who would do something so crazy? Only Stephanie Plum. Love this book!Reread in June 2016. My love of Janet Evanovich may be leaning toward stalker territory.Reread...again May 2018. Ok, it may seem like I reread these every year, but I skipped a year so I’m not a complete stalker.  In this book sexy Diesel is back and in search of a leprechaun. Or maybe he’s just a little guy who speaks with a fake Irish accent and thinks he’s a leprechaun. 🤷🏼♀🍀Meanwhile Grandma Mazur ha
A horse in an apartment?
Who would do something so crazy?
Only Stephanie Plum.
Love this book!Reread in June 2016.
My love of Janet Evanovich may be leaning toward stalker territory.Reread...again May 2018.
Ok, it may seem like I reread these every year, but I skipped a year so I’m not a complete stalker.
In this book sexy Diesel is back and in search of a leprechaun.
Or maybe he’s just a little guy who speaks with a fake Irish accent and thinks he’s a leprechaun.
🤷🏼‍♀️🍀Meanwhile Grandma Mazur has found the leprechaun’s pot of gold (or bag of cash) and heads to the casinos.
They simply don’t fit.
It almost feel like the author said “Let me write a little something, I could use the cash for a new extension on the house.” Stephanie and her parade of characters are present, and always entertaining.
But the supernatural, special ability people don’t work for me.
It’s St-Patty’s Day and Grandma Mazur found a bag of cash at the end of a rainbow.
Stephanie has to track her and the money down to Atlantic City.
She has the help of Lula, Connie and Diesel, who happens to be after the leprauchaun wannabe who stole the bag-o-money in the first place from a toadlike mobster.What’s next, the Easter Bunny???
So far, these books have been centered around holidays: Christmas, Valentine's Day, and now St. Patrick's Day. Grandma Mazur takes off with a duffel bag that she found on the street.
It's full of money, and she's convinced she's found the leprechaun's pot of gold and it's hers to keep.
But the "leprechaun" wants his money back, and so do the gangsters he stole it from.
Grandma takes off for Atlantic City, so Stephanie, Lula and Connie take off after her.
This was my first Janet Evanovich book and I have to say I'm not a big fan. I had high expectations because I had heard from a lot of different people that her books are great, but this one didn't live up to the hype! The book was a quick read and got me laughing a few times, but it was TOO ridiculous in my opinion. Will I try another Evanovich some day? Probably...but next time I'll be at the pool giving it only 1/2 of my attention!!!
These are always so much fun and any book with more Diesel and Grandma M is a winner!
Plum Lucky is a total hoot. Lots of fun. Literally couldn't contain my laughter at times. Two of the diversions are absolutely hilarious. The characters added for this story are likeable and even the bad guys are good for laughs.
Like Randy from American Idol would say "Dude, it was just all right for me"
this book was funny.
That being said, there is a lot of foul language in it.
Add in a crazy gramma, a guy named Diesel, and a horse named Doug, and you can probably guess why.
This book starts on St Patrick's day, but it didn't end there.
Not sure I'll try any of the other books, though.
This particular book being a 'holidy' book, takes place in between the series.I understand Katherine Hiegel will be portraying Stephanie in a movie soon.
Depending on the rating (if they keep the language, it will be 'R'), I may go see it.
I love Janet Evanovich and the Stephanie Plum series. Nice short book I read in two evenings. Not as good as the "numbers" series b/c Morelli and Ranger weren't really involved.
Stephanie Plum has a way of attracting danger, lunatics, oddballs, bad luck...
And no one is more mysterious than the unmentionable Diesel.
He's back and hot on the trail of a little man in green pants who's lost a giant bag of money.
With Lula and Connie in tow, Stephanie attempts to bring Grandma home.
Diesel's found Stephanie.
And Stephanie has found herself in over her head with a caper involving thrice stolen money, a racehorse, a car chase and a bad case of hives.
PLUM LUCKY is an all-you-can-eat buffet of thrills, chills, shrimp cocktail, plus-size underwear and scorching hot men.
This book was laugh-out-loud funny!
I had to stop reading several times because I was laughing out loud.
It's not high-brow, but it sure made my day.This is another 'Between the Numbers' books that features Stephanie Plum, Diesel, Lulu, Grandma Mazur and the usual collection of off-beat characters that populate Evanovich's Stephanie Plum books.
Let's just say that Grandma Mazur gets into a funny situation early on in the plot and it's up to Stephanie and Diesel to save the day.
Lulu almost steals the book with some FUNNY scenes in an Atlantic Casino, and Doug the horse was a riot.
as always Stephanie's life is chaotic. Kidnapped grandmothers and thoroughbred horses, a Leprechaun, Diesel, Ranger, Lulu as supermodel and Atlantic City Casinos What could go wrong?????
Funniest one yet! Loved it!
The "between the numbers" books, in my opinion, don't add anything to the rest of the series, though they can be fun for the hardcore fans.In this installment, Stephanie's Grandma Mazur finds a duffel bag full of money, and goes off to Atlantic City to spend it.
Diesel, who only shows up in these books and is never mentioned in the main timeline, appears because he's looking for the guy who stole the money in the first place.
It definitely feels like less of a waste of time to listen to these in the car than it would if I was taking precious reading time from other physical books.
Laughed my ass off, it was so incredibly ridiculous and I adored it.
It wasn't even trying to pass off as believable, it was so incredible unbelievable to the point that I would classify it as a self-deprecating book.
I personally am a huge fan of self-deprecating humor anyhow.
I seriously just laugh and think 'what the fuck?' Sleeping on top of each other just because that's apparently the most comfortable 'what the fuck?' Plus-sized sidekick distracts criminals and get's modeling gig 'what the fuck?' worst criminal ever thinks he talks to animals and can turn himself invisible (but clearly can't) 'what the fuck?' this book was one big 'WTF???' and I loved every minute of it.
Somewhat a little Plum Scary and as always funny. No naked wannabe leprechauns for me thanks. Hilarious as always, fun trip to Atlantic city and a rescue horse.
This book had me ROLLING. I was laughing out loud. Loved it!
A "between the numbers " book from Janet Evanovich. Short, fun and very easy read from one of my favourite mystery authors. I enjoy Stephanie Plum and all of her adventures that always get her "men" ( Ranger and Morelli ) involved and in these between the number novels Diesel shows up and adds a new dimension to the story.I think that grandma Mazur is hilarious and she also adds new dimension to the adventure.A quick and enjoyable read !
Stephanie Plum's Grandma goes missing and her mom sends her to find her. Grandma's found a bag of money and decides to go to Atlantic City for her own adventure. Set around St. Patrick's Day and a guy who thinks he is a leprechaun, this adventure is a wacky tale.
Totally StupidRediculious story, unbelievable characters, impossible situations.... In short, another Stephanie Plumb novel. (Although really a novella) Always a great guilty pleasure read. This one is perhaps a little more extreme and less satisfying than others but the perfect light reading between more weighty books.
unfortunately my health has me kind of bed ridden so I have been enjoying light reads.
Stephanie is a kick a**, sarcastic, hot mess and loveable character.
Lula and Stephanie are the kind of girls you want to spend the evening with forgetting about standards and having fun taking a walk on the wild side.
When reading this series you want to take breaks because overdoing it losing the surprise and fun of her sarcasm and hot mess self.
The in-between series is not as good as the original series but still got the kick ass characters and full of laughs!
It stars Stephanie Plum, the lovable bail bonds enforcer, and Diesel (from the Lizzie and Diesel series), a man with magical abilities who tracks down magical objects and magical people, known as Unmentionables.
Diesel is tracking a man, named Snuggy O'Connor, who is in deep trouble after stealing a bag of money from mobster, Lou Delvina (last seen in Plum Lovin').
But Stephanie's Grandma Mazur finds the bag of money, and all hell breaks loose when Snuggy tries to steal it back from her.
I hope King never leaves narrating Stephanie Plum books.
Because there is always time to read, Xepherus3 At Twitter: https://twitter.com/XepherusStudiosAt Book Depository: http://www.bookdepository.com/?a_aid=...
Number: 9ISBN: 9780312377632Rating: B+Summary www.bn.comLooking to get lucky?Stephanie Plum is back between-the-numbers and she’s looking to get lucky in an Atlantic City hotel room, in a Winnebago, and with a brown-eyed stud who has stolen her heart.Stephanie Plum has a way of attracting danger, lunatics, oddballs, bad luck .
And Stephanie has found herself in over her head with a caper involving thrice-stolen money, a racehorse, a car chase, and a bad case of hives.Plum Lucky is an all-you-can-eat buffet of thrills, chills, shrimp cocktail, plus-size underwear, and scorching hot men.
Stephanie Plum leads an interesting life.
Her own life is definitely not what most would consider normal.
But whenever Diesel pops into her life, the weirdness meter will max out.
Diesel is sort of a bounty hunter for people with unusual abilities.
Diesel seems to have some of those unusual abilities himself.This time, Diesel is hunting for a gentleman that thinks he is a leprechaun.
Now Stephanie, Diesel and friends are off to Atlantic City to try and find Grandma, catch the leprechaun, and to save a former racehorse.
Diesel is a great character and fits well within Stephanie's world.
You have to love these characters and Janet has plenty of imagination combined with King's great voice on audio make this a winner!Stephanie Plum has a way of attracting danger, lunatics, oddballs, bad luck… and mystery men.
And no one is more mysterious than the unmentionable Diesel.
He’s back and hot on the trail of a little man in green pants who’s lost a giant bag of money.
Problem is the money isn’t exactly lost.
Stephanie’s Grandma Mazur has found it, and like any good Jersey senior citizen she’s high-tailed it in a Winnebago to Atlantic City and hit the slots.
With Lula and Connie in tow, Stephanie attempts to bring Grandma home.
I originally bought the first few Stephanie Plum books for my husband, since it's set in New Jersey, his "other home".
But last week at work, I forgot a book to read for lunch and found this at the gift shop, so I thought, What the heck?I just finished it a while ago, and I had heard good things about the Stephanie Plum series.
Between the streaking leprechaun at the car wash and the former prostitute-turned supermodel that blew up Stephanie Plum's car with a rocket launcher, the book was ridiculous, but thoroughly enjoyable!
This is another between the numbers book featuring bounty hunter/bail bondsman Stephanie Plum.
Stephanie's grandma Mazur "found" his bag of money and has bought a Winnebago and gone to Atlantic City to see if she can get lucky some more.
Stephanie brings Connie and Lula to Atlantic City to try and bring Grandma Mazur back but it turns out the money had been stolen from the gangster Delvina.
Hijinks ensue including a car wash incident and a horse in a Winnebago.This books was pretty short, just enough for a nice afternoon read.
Not the best Plum book, but enough to quench the thirst until Fearless Fourteen.
A fun in-between the novels read with Stephanie Plum.
I was pleasantly surprised that this was so good; I'll probably read more of these holiday-themed novellas, which are the perfect length for this genre.
Plus, there seems to be more character development, which is great, because I'm reading these for the characters anyway.
I love the fun, perky dialogue, but every couple of "pages" (this is an audio book with a GREAT narrator) I feel like I can tell that this was written by someone who is twice as old as Stephanie.
*sigh* This was written in 2008 last time I looked, not 1993.
