https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9051.The_Historian_s_Craft
Instead I was shocked to learn that Marc Bloch had been tortured and killed by Nazis.
As a literature- and material culture-loving type of history grad student, I especially appreciated the value Bloch put on sources beyond documents found in archives.
He considers how a historian evaluates sources and the various falsehoods that can creep into them.
The Historian's Craft is an artifact of its own time, as one can tell from some of Bloch's post-positivist, not-exactly-Marxist, yet pre-post-structuralist [?] ideas and ways of framing them.
Then there's the subtitle: "...History...and the Men who Write It." So, yes, it's dated in certain ways.Still.
This book is well worth reading and considering.
Si cercano” .Bloch sospese la stesura di “Apologia della storia” per unirsi al movimento di Resistenza Franc-tireur, scelta che gli costò la fucilazione per mano dei nazisti il 16 giugno 1944.Il libro uscì, incompiuto, nel 1949 grazie al suo amico e compagno di studi Lucien Febvre.Cos’è la Storia?
Bloch afferma che è la scienza degli uomini nel tempo.
A passel of them owing to war, WWII in this case (and, I think, in the case of Auerbach's Mimesis); others to distance or remote location (Empson in China).
Bloch's book is a more elegant, less systematic version of David Hackett Fischer's indispensable Historians' Fallacies.
I do wonder how much of the style is owing to the interventions of Lucien Febvre, who rescued the manuscripts on which the text is based, or the English translator Peter Putnam.
It ends rather abruptly, and the penultimate chapter on Historical Analysis is less polished than the previous three.
What is the legitimacy of history?* There is an entertainment value to history* History can help to integrate fragments of knowledge into a unified whole, synthesis* History, Men and Time: This chapter defines history* This book accepts a broad interpretation of the word history--inquiry* The object or history or inquiry is man* History is further defined by calling it the study of men in time* The present effects the knowledge of the past, as does the past influence the present* Thus, history is the study of men in time from the past to the present* Historical Observation* Historians cannot directly observe what they study.
Una buona ricerca non deve solo prendere in esame il passato, ma anche il presente da cui prendere le mosse.
Per il grande storico francese sarebbe meglio procedere a ritroso, dal più conosciuto al meno conosciuto, onde evitare che, procedendo al contrario (ossia dal passato verso il presente), si incorra in quella malattia cui erano affetti tutti gli storici dell'antichità: quella dell'ossessione delle origini.
In questo saggio appassionante Bloch parla anche delle fonti che ogni storico dovrebbe tenere in considerazione e del processo dinamico, e non statico, di narrativizzazione di tali fonti.
Dat heeft alles te maken met het onvoltooide karakter van de tekst (Bloch werd door de Nazi’s geëxecuteerd in 1944 terwijl het boek nog niet af was), maar ook met Bloch’s nogal redeneerstijl, voortdurend slingerend tussen algemene stellingen en concrete voorbeelden, zonder veel systematiek.
Inhoudelijk heeft de tekst van Bloch niet zo erg veel te bieden: het is – zoals de titel zegt – inderdaad een pleidooi voor geschiedschrijving als métier, als ambacht, met zijn sterke en zijn zwakke kanten.
Before going into college, I seriously considered becoming a historian. I ended up studying chemistry and getting accustomed with the rules of the scientific method. And in comparison, this book can be very well considered as a study on the method for history. Bloch is very aware of the possible bias of historians while examining information, and specially of acknowledging the ignorance of situations based on the available data. It is a perfect introduction to the understanding of history as a science.
Marc Bloch is one of my new heroes. The incredible thing about this book is that he wrote about the role of the historian completely without the aid of sources--and it's soooo good. He had his teaching license and books taken away by the Nazis, and later he was killed by one of their firing squads outside of Lyon, France, for his involvement in the French Resistance.
Second reading of this book; placed here because I really don't remember when I read it first.This is a remarkable little book that should be read by anyone in the social sciences since the methodology transcends.
Read for school.
A 20th-c. classic, and a book that's been on my shelves since I was an undergraduate. A fine read by a fine scholar, and essential reading for anyone preparing to do History as a profession.
Muy interesante.
This is the best book on historiography that I've ever read. So good. I kept muttering "yes! yes!" to myself while reading.
Figura no melhor que me já chegou às mãos.
Για τον λάτρη της ιστορίας, οι σκέψεις του προσώπου αυτού πάνω στην ιστορία έχουν ενδιαφέρον για την κοινωνική ιστορία.Ένα δείγμα των θεμάτων του βιβλίου:Η διαχείριση του υλικού από τους ιστορικούς κάνοντας λόγο για διάφορες ερμηνευτικές παγίδες.
Η χρήση μιας ξενικής λέξης για να περιγράψουμε κάτι που έχει κοινά στοιχεία με κάποιο διαφορετικό γεγονός στην ιστορία πετσοκόβοντας στην πράξη και τα δύο.Το βιβλίο αποτελείται από σημειώσεις του Βloch που ο φίλος και συνεργάτης Lucien Febvre- στον οποίο ο Bloch αφιερώνει το βιβλίο- έκδωσε.
Éstas son sus respuestas: — distrae (“indiscutible atractivo de la historia”)— nos ayuda a vivir mejor (“está destinada a trabajar en provecho del hombre, ya que tiene como tema de estudio al hombre y sus actos”)— nos provee de un conocimiento dinámico (es “una ciencia en marcha”)— contribuye a la dialéctica de la sociedad humana (el historiar es un “auténtico problema de acción”)— capta lo vital de la sociedad humana (“Esta facultad de captar lo vivo es, en efecto, la cualidad dominante del historiador”)— para unir el estudio de los muertos con la ciencia de los vivos— para abrir una nueva ruta hacia la verdad y la justicia (“gracias a la elaboración de la técnica de la crítica [o interpretación] del testimonio” escrito)Es cierto, como escribió Norman Cantor, que cuando leemos a Bloch no podemos sustraernos a las denotaciones y connotaciones de su martirio (tortura y ejecución a manos de los nazis en Francia en 1944), al ello detraer de la calidad de sus planteamientos, pues tenemos la tendencia de perdonarle todas sus faltas, defectos, contradicciones como historiador, lo que no hacemos con los demás historiadores.
E quindi la storia come scienza che parla degli essere umani, una scienza, e quindi improntata al rigore e alla disciplina come le altre scienze.
Per inciso, è notevole vedere come Bloch conosca bene la chimica e la fisica del suo tempo, usandole come pietre di paragone per lo sviluppo dei propri concetti: segno di una mente curiosa e aperta ad ogni aspetto dello scibile.
Le parti di discussione della critica, della linguistica, dell'analisi delle fonti sono profonde e cariche di concetti, quindi una lettura non sempre agevole per il non esperto, ma comunque fondamentale per ogni amante della storia!
Good work.
The insights have helped me justify my work to myself.
Warning: when Bloch discusses probability and math in this book, he is commonly making false statements.
He falsely asserts that probability theory concerned itself solely with equiprobable events.
His example of the probability of two people born on the same day of the year is incorrect due to an oversight in counting.
None of this detracts from his actual arguments and the points he is trying to make about contingencies and historical events.
Rather he misrepresents the state of probability theory at the time of writing and also demonstrates his inability to understand and apply basic counting tools.
Here is my story about the book by Mr. Bloch. Found it foraging through a college library booksale. Bought it for .25 I should give it 5 stars...not so much for its contents, although it is remarkable given the conditions of which he wrote it...in hiding and then imprisoned by the Third Reich in occupied France. A French-Jew, he begins the text in hiding...the book ends unfinished because he is assassinated. Considered to be one of the most renown French historians...this is an English translation. There is more to my story, but it is mine.
Хубава книга, но твърде разпиляна в интердисциплинарното анализиране.. И един хубав цитат "Тъй като впрочем няма нищо по - изменчиво по природа от подобни присъди, подложени на всички колебания на колективното съзнание или личната прищявка, историята е приела облика на най-несигурната дисциплина: кухите обвинения са следвани от толкова безполезни реабилитации. Робеспиеристи, антиробеспиеристи, молим ви за милост: смилете се и просто ни кажете какъв е бил Робеспиер"
Marc Bloch's "The Historian's Craft" is a necessary read for anyone even considering becoming a historian. It details in a thoughtful and comprehensive way the limitations and difficulties of bridging that gap between the dead and the living. A truly masterful work by an experienced and equally amazing author, "The Historian's Craft" is at once educational and a reflection on historiography.
This little gem has been on my shelf since I discovered Bloch as a postgraduate. I wish I had read it as an undergrad in history as it has so much to offer the aspiring historian. A great legacy for Bloch, who was killed by the Nazis and it remains a wonderful guide for historians.
this was a really, i mean, obviously a foundational text and a lot of its observations still hold true today; i'm not sure if i would reread it but reading it was a valuable experience and it's probably a good book to have around
Pietra miliare. Punto.
It’s more of a memoir than a manual which is not what i wanted.
A masterpiece to anyone vaguely interested in history. A book about history by a great little man who made it not only as a theorist and researcher.
Read for Historiography
Marc Bloc, patriot and historian. Feudal Society got my started on my academic pursuits as a Medieval Historian. Brilliant.
Una excelente lectura para sumergirse en la labor del historiador.
Di fatto, è un manuale che sintetizza tutti gli strumenti dello storico.
La storia non è qualcosa di oggettivo, ma qualcosa che prevede in sé tutta la mutevolezza umana: menzogne, alterazioni, punti di vista marcati, culture diverse, tutto contribuisce a rendere sempre parziali le tracce della storia degli uomini, per quanto queste si sforzino di essere neutrali.
Imparare questi strumenti, inoltre, mette al sicuro dalle mistificazioni delle produzioni umane, sia lontane che vicine.Il testo, purtroppo, non è stato concluso per via della morte dell'autore (fucilato dai nazisti perché uomo della Resistenza).
