https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/533465.Balzac_and_the_Little_Chinese_Seamstress
Two urban Chinese boys, 17 and 18 when the story starts, are sent to a farming village to do rural work as part of their “re-education” under Mao’s cultural revolution.
(The book is translated from the French.) All the universities were closed and all boys and girls who had graduated from high school were sent off.
The work the boys do is brutal farm work, done by all the peasants in this village.
They are in an isolated village so lost in time that people are barefoot and there are no doctors or dentists; But there is a gleam of hope.
Set during the early 1970’s, when Mao sent the intellectuals to the provinces to be re-educated to life as peasants, two young men are assigned to a small, remote village.
The local chief assigns them to travel two days to the nearest town in which films are shown, then report back to the town the entirety of the films.
The Little Seamstress of the title is a beautiful young woman, who becomes lover to one of the young men (both are in their late teens).
They share their tale of Balzac with her.
Spoiler alert here – do not read further if you want to learn plot details for yourself.Little Seamstress becomes pregnant.
A charming book, written with astute quickness, Balzac and the Little Chinese Seamstress is both erudite and approachable.
Despite its captivation of the reader, its quick pace, its interesting plot, this short novel begins to come apart when perspectives are suddenly shifted (why?) and then again at the end.
It is a book so enraptured in its cute story, its nice little package, that it fails to truly consider what it is saying.
Don't expect much from this little book, despite its great efforts to convince you there is something to expect, and you shall enjoy it as you blaze through the pages.
كما في رواية راوية الأفلام يمتلك ليو فضيلة القص ويستطيع بطريقته الخلابة أن يكسب انتباه السامعين كما استطاع بنفس الطريقة أن يجذب إليه قلب الخياطة الصغيرة ..الرواية تشير إلى الوضع في الصين أبان الثورة الثقافية في عهد الزعيم الصيني ماو وكيف منع كل ما هو له علاقة بالغرب وخاصة نهج التعليم والكتب بطل الرواية عازف كمنجة وراوي أفلام هو وصديقه ليو وكلاهما شغف بالقراءة هذه الأمور الثلاثة كانت قادرة على هزم أي ثورة مزعومة القراءة وما تحدثه من تغير ملموس في العقل لذلك فإن أي نظام سياسي مهما بلغ جبروته لا يمكن أن يوقف التعطش للمعرفة وتلك الحروف التي كتبت على السترة الجلدية كانت بداية الحكاية ، حكاية هذا العشق الجميل للقراءة في ظل هذه الظروف والمعاناة التي يعيشها شباب التأهيل حكاية التوق الفطري للإنعتاق ، الكتاب كمصباح ضوء في مكان بالغ العتمة ..
The story revolves around a part of history that I feel somewhat ignorant about, the story takes place during the Chinese cultural revolution a time in history where communism was a means to suppress and take away individuality.
Life is controlled under the regime of Mao Zedong chairman of the Chinese communist party and restrictions take place, where revolutionary literature is forbidden and higher learning is discouraged, a time when boys where taken away from their towns and then placed into primitive little villages with the sole purpose of reeducation.
I love how the ending ties the little Chinese seamstress to the main theme of the book and I adored the ending which left me feeling uplifted and joyous.
It is, after all, the reason for which the main character and his best friend Luo are sent to the countryside for their re-education; however, I get the feeling that none of this could actually have happened during the Cultural Revolution, which presents an interesting dilemma and calls the entire book into question.
In the end, it seems like the Cultural Revolution and the re-education process are just sort of there to make the story interesting, in spite of the seminal role that they should be playing in the text.
The story is about Luo and an unnamed narrator who have been relocated to Phoenix Mountain where they are to be re-educated.
As a responsibility to their re-education, they have to travel to different villages, sharing stories of the Chairman, but, in fact, they are trying to live the life they have experienced in Balzac’s novel.
For the most part, this relationship is only rudimentary to the story, until Four Eyes has been seen fit as being re-educated.
Throughout the novel, I could not help but think: Could I go from a world full of books to one without?
عندما بدأت بقراءة هذه الرواية لأول مرة، لم أكن أعلم شيئاً عن تاريخ الصين ولا أملك أدنى معلومة عن ذلك، وكانت أيضاً أول رواية آسيوية أقرؤها.
من جهة أخرى، يسكن في إحدى القرى شاب من عُمر الصديقان، يخضع لفترة إعادة تأهيل أيضاً، ويشكّ الصديقان بأن ذلك الفتى يُخفي حقيبة مليئة بالكتب، وكما هو معلوم -كانت الكتب الغربية ممنوعة خلال حكم ماو- وهنا يخطط الصديقان لسرقة هذه الحقيبة، وينجحان في ذلك، ويُصدما بكمية الروايات التي تحويها الحقيبة وبعناوينها الكثيرة، ويسهرا ليلاً لقرائتها سراً، ويقرآها أيضاً على الخيّاطة الصغيرة.
This is a gentle, magical book, quite unlike any other I have ever read. The author really gets into the minds of the two boys and the seamstress and the tiny, colourful life they create together despite the poverty of mountain village and the oppression of the Cultural Revolution. The ending is just perfect too.
This story is cute, kind of odd, and without much plot or character development.
Dai Sijie's first novel tells the story about two teenage boys sent to the mountains in China for "re-education" under the Maoist regime.
Towards the end the perspective changes for what feels like absolutely no reason and I found myself saying, "what?!" in my head and having to flip back to figure out if I missed something (I didn't).
The story is told from the perspective of one of the boys, Ma, and is about his relationship with his friend Luo and their preoccupation with a young seamstress in a nearby village.

طالت تهمة عداء الشعب الصيني غالبية المثقفين حتى ذلك الذي قام بترجمة كتب بلزاك التي عثر عليها ليو وصاحبه ليتقنا بعد ذلك نزوة القصّ المباركة و يتلاعبا بشيخ القرية المسئول عن إعادة تأهيلهما و يسعى ليو للإيقاع بالخياطة الصغيرة بالتعاون مع كتب بلزاك بينما ستحرر هذه الكتب نفسها الخياطة.
رواية جميلة جداً بشرط أن تقرأ بترجمة اليوسفي.
Set in 1971 over the course of a couple of years, it follows the story of the unnamed 17 year old narrator and his best friend Luo, a year older, sent into the countryside to be "re-educated" by the peasants.
The only bit that I didn't like so much, as far as the book was written, was the three chapters towards the end that flesh out Luo and the Little Seamstress' relationship, as told from their perspective and, oddly, the Old Miller who spies them "coupling".
“I was carried away, swept along by the mighty stream of words pouring from the hundreds of pages.
To me it was the ultimate book: once you had read it, neither your own life nor the world you lived in would ever look the same.”  I heard about this book via a classmate that said it was his favourite book.
Blindly I said I would give it a shot, and when I saw it at a thrift store for very cheap I bought it, two days later I decided to read it and then died.
I am so angry and glad at this book, I
To me it was the ultimate book: once you had read it, neither your own life nor the world you lived in would ever look the same.” 
The narrator and Lao (his best friend) come across Western classic books translated into Chinese (not sure which actual language, sorry), which are forbidden.
Via these banned books, these re-educated people see a world they will no longer be allowed to be a part of, and discover love along the way.
The narrator and Lao discover a suitcase with classics from Balzac to Dostoevsky, and begin the actual secret education they were blamed for.
3.45*

Balzac thật lợi hại. Đọc bao nhiêu năm mới thấy có ai đó cua được gái bằng tiểu thuyết. Balzac muôn năm, Balzac vô địch :))Cập nhật ý kiến ý cò về cuốn này: Cuốn sách là một hồi chuông cảnh tỉnh cho bất cứ người đàn ông nào muốn bạn gái mình thông minh hơn, hiểu biết hơn này nọ. Đặc biệt là ước muốn bạn gái đọc nhiều sách là điều cấm kị, tuyệt đối cấm kị, cực lực cấm kị. Hậu quả sẽ rất khó lường. Ahihi
I thought this would be great (well, the cover was beautiful and it did have Balzac in it) but I was really unimpressed by it. It was a story and nothing more. I can't figure out why it's selling like hot cakes. Oh well.
This is truly a think piece.The more you know about the Red Guard, Cultural Revolution and subsequent civil liberties and personal choices of rural peasant or relocated for purpose Chinese- beyond the dire states of 1967-1972 atrocity, the more you will see the diamond here.
And so the most forbidden becomes the purpose and desire most cherished, yet hidden.
Eventually forbidden word becomes distributed and more earnestly horded toward feeling and purpose than if it were not.
And will leave the simplicity of its beginnings quite behind within a newly grasped context that disdains the former and more limited choice ignorance.Lovely, lovely illustration of the dichotomy inherent in knowledge.
Beautifully written story about youth during the Chinese Cultural Revolution.
Two bourgeois boys, Luo and the unnamed narrator, are sent to the countryside for their re-education.
There, they toil in the fields and in the mines, and hope against hope that they would be the one of the three in a thousand to be sent back to the city despite their parents being 'enemies of the people'.The story is not a linear one, and the narrative reads like excerpts from a bigger book.
With these nuggets of life in the Chinese countryside, the reader understands the complexity of the web drawn around young people during this time.
I chose this excerpt from the book because it seems to sum up the changes seen in the characters:“Picture if you will, a boy of nineteen still slumbering in the limbo of adolescence, having heard nothing but revolutionary blather about patriotism, Communism, and ideology and propaganda all his life, falling headlong into a story of awakening desire, passion, impulsive action, love, of all the subjects that had, until then, been hidden from me”There is a series of revolutions taking place throughout this novel within the characters.
You see them change as they bring new philosophies into their lives.
Rating: 3.5* of fiveThis novel is a deep peer into the dark and turgid pool that the Cultural Revolution made of China for far, far too long.Of course, I've moved my review to my blog so the Reavers can't get at it.
( عند اجتيازنا لصالة الطعام ، تناول ( لو ) حقيبة الكتب ، بعد ساعة من الركض المجنون على الطريق ، وبعد أن قررنا أخيراً أن نستريح ، فتحها .كان ذيل الثور بنهايته المشعرة و الملطخة ببقع الدم الداكنة يستلقي على أكوام الكتب ، كان طويلاً بشكل استثنائي ، انه ذلك الذيل الذي اوقع نظارات ( بينوكلار ) بلا شك ) ص ١١١استرعى انتباهي في هذه السطور رغم قِلّتها امتصاصها لروح الحدث وتلخيصها له و اشتمالها على الفعل وردات الفعل التي تراوحت بين الغائب المؤثر في سير الأحداث و الحاضر الحركي الديناميكي لذلك قررت العبور من خلالها لمتن النص ، فهي كشاهد على التحول في ذهنية الشخوص الرئيسة وطريقة تعاملهم مع الأحداث القهرية من حولهم كالحرمان العلمي و اضطهاد الفن وصعوبة التعاطي مع المعرفة في حين هناك حقيقة شائنة ألا وهي التوجه السلطوي العام الذي يتزعمه الزعيم ماو و يتآمر ضد تطور شعبه ليجتث جذور الثقافة بسحق الطبقة البرجوازية و العمالية من الشعب و تشتيت أي توحد محتمل ضد السلطة الماوية في صفوفهما ..
تحديث: كنت أقلب مواضيعا قديمة، فمررت على موضوع كنت كتبته قبل عامين عن هذه الروايةأتحدث فيه عن فكرة ا
This story is set in the communist China of early seventies where children of highly educated people were forcibly made to stay in peasant lands and be re educated (I.
In a country, high in the mountains, where other people seldom tread, they try to reconcile with their fate.
Then they meet another boy called Four eyes ( perhaps because he uses dpectscles), with a hidden suitcase full of western books and also the daughter of the local tailor, who is almost a royalty to the lower class people.
Two teenage boys are sent to a peasant village for re-education because of what their parents do.
They also discover western literature through another boy being re-educated.
The last third of the book does feel very rushed and I felt the book could easily have been twice as long and that would have taken away the rushed feel at the end.
I also felt the character of the seamstress was a little thin and did not ring true; it needed more development to explain the way she acted and reactedA good read, but in this case not quite enough.
لكنتشف بأن الرابط هو الكبت الذي  أحكمته "الديكتاتورية البروليتارية" في حق شعبها ليس فقط من ناحية حرية العيش واختيار الواجبات الوطنية التي تتراءى لكل فرد حسب توجهاته، لكن تلك الديكتاتورية التي فرضت على شعب يفوق سكان العالم عددًا أن يسخر حياته لتأسيس طبقة عاملة رافضين وبنقمة أن يكون لها أية علاقة فكرية أوعقلانية تتحاور مع العاطفة في محادثة إنسانية راقية ذات ميول ثقافية.حتى الحب والزواج كانا مرتبطين بسن معينة.هذه الشيوعية المتسلطة أجبرت شبابها على تجنيد عمالي إجباري بعيدًا عن عائلاتهم التي تنتمي إلى فئات علمية راقية.
أن تكون السبب في تغير أحد ما ،، شعور مذهل وقاتل في الوقت نفسه مذهل حينما ترى نتائج أفعالك وقد تبينت 
Vì dẫu trong hoàn cảnh có khó khăn đến mấy, người ta vẫn có thể thắp lên hy vọng nhỏ nhoi nào đó: bằng âm nhạc, bằng kiến thức, bằng tình yêu, và bằng những cuốn sách.Tôi luôn nghĩ về nền văn học Trung Quốc đơn giản thế này: Từ trước khi có Cách Mạng Văn Hóa và sau khi có Cách Mạng Văn Hóa.
Những "Huynh Đệ" "Lửa Thiêu Rừng Hạnh" "Chốn Xưa" "Trông lên rất đẹp" và cơ số những tác phẩm khác khi nói về giai đoạn kinh dị này của lịch sử Trung Quốc đều để lại những vết hằn không gì xóa bỏ.
