https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/378208.Plants_of_the_Gods
I actually read quite a few works on hallucinogenics and legal highs, but most were either obscurely medical or uncritically new-agey – this one is the perfect balance, giving excellent ethnographic details of the different peoples or tribes that have used the substances concerned, with comments on mythology or folklorish import where relevant, but also providing details on the chemistry at work and the neurological effects produced (where known).To take salvia as an example: we have an interview with a ‘shamanic healer’, details of where the plant grows, how the leaves are prepared for use, some background on the Aztec drug pipiltzintzintli which may have been the same thing, several beautiful illustrative photos, and a sidebar on the chemical composition of active ingredient salvinorin-A (C₂₃H₂₈O₈).The original authors are the grand-daddies of hallucinogenic research: Richard Evans Schultes more or less invented the field of ethnobotany single-handed, while Albert Hofmann was the main discoverer of LSD and the first to identify (and synthesise) psilocybin.
This is an excellent go to resource on the use of psychotropic compounds by pre-industrial societies.A fascinating topic in it's own right, detailed in full, and marvelously illustrated.Some of the images in this book remind me strongly of experiences I've had just sitting around doing nothing. Pretty amazing stuff and worth a read by anyone with a curious mind.
A well-photographed healing session with the shaman Maria Sabina as presented in this book would tell us no.
Maria proclaims her patient's disease to be fatal, and his reaction is profound; working with psilocybin and cancer patients, our preliminary data presents some tearful, anxious reactions.
However, Maria continues to provide the boy with prayer and benediction; this may be of great effect, as we have seen the psychological aftermath of a soundly-conducted psilocybin session to provide a new outlook on death and life.
A must have for the study of ethnobotany and entheogens. It gives a detailed description of how hallucinogens work, and the context of their ritualistic use. It also covers a broad range of psychoactives in detail, and has a list of more unknown hallucinogenic plants. It does this in a fairly condensed fashion too.
Plants of the Gods is a collaborative work by ethnobotany greats Albert Hofmann, Richard Evans Schultes, and Christian Ratsch. It is an overview of various psychoactive plants and their uses in cultures of the past and present. It goes into detail on many of these plants, such as the morning glory vine Ololuiqui, the Peyote cactus, the Ayahausca brew, and DMT-containing snuff powders made from the Yopo. The book also discusses the roles of psychoactive plants in modern psychotherapy and medicine. It is well sourced and referenced. A definite addition to any ethnobotany collection.
You could call this a reference book for psychoactive plants but its awful fun and interesting to read compared to most of the dry reference books of all sorts I've read. Plants of the Gods is also full of nice illustrations and photographs. Schultes deserves a lot of credit for doing the leg work going into the Amazon back in the 1940s and collecting and learning about the uses of these plants long before the days of Ayahuasca tourism.
excellent information on the use of certain entheogens by shamanic based cultures around the world....
very informantive. lots of great pictures and maps. these plants are all around us!
Must read book to understand the history, cultural practices with psychedelics use across the world in pre-industrial times. It is fascinating to know there are close to 100 psychedelic plants (found so far) and all are documented in this book. There is also good collection of drawings and paintings people received during their visions.
A great work of ethnobotany and anthropology. Humans have the capacity for a variety of altered states of consciousness, and a major question is how to integrate this into our contemporary society; a task which has failed unfortunately, I would say.
Enorme compendio y catálogo tanto del uso como de las cosmogonías. Leer con responsabilidad.
A wonderful review of entheogenic plants and their traditional usage throughout the world.
Wonderfull, surely an asset to all interested.
Love this book! Amazing information from around the world!
However, one can not give Schultes all the credit for this work.
It helps when your co-authors are as brilliant as Christian Ratsch and the venerable Albert Hoffmann.If one is only moderately interested in the topic of hallucinogens, then this is the single book that should be sitting on your shelf.
I’ve seen it used in numerous journal articles as a reference and one would be hard pressed to find a superior source on plant based hallucinogens than Schultes.
For someone absolutely consumed with the topic of mind altering plants, then I would recommend Ratsch’s Encyclopedia.
For your average researcher, Plants of the Gods is an excellent source.
I like this book because it gave me a history lesson on some of the plants that I have managed to obtain in my life so far. I was really happy to read about the Datura plant because I bought this flower four years ago and didn't realize that it had so much history to it. It is nice to find out the plants I have bought are intersected in the history of early civilizations. If you have any questions about certain "odd" looking plants, you need to see if they are in books like these.
A surreal & mind opening window into people's sacred relationship with plants from around the world. Great photos/art to go along with the information. A true pioneer in Western study of ethnobotany following in the footsteps of Spruce yet blazing his own path like no other. More a scientist than a mystic but so respectful of his work...heartfelt grattitude goes out to him for his yearn to explore & expand on the world as he knew it.
Plants of the Gods: Their Sacred, Healing, and Hallucinogenic Powers by Richard Evans Schultes (Healing Arts Press 1992) ( 394) appears to be the bible of natural hallucinogens. It's a wonderful encyclopedia of the plants that have historically led humans to believe in gods and other worlds. It's a catalog with historical perspectives supplied and a very important book. My rating: 9/10, finished 3/20/14.
Bonito manual de divulgación para gente interesada en plantas enteogénicas. Valioso por lo accesible de los datos técnicos, pero invaluable por resaltar la importancia étnica y religiosa de cada planta de los dioses.Como habitante de la vieja mesoamérica, me quedo con la sensación de estar rodeado de dioses. Ahora, no sólo quiero probar cada una de ellas, sino arañar el objetivo religioso de su consumo: la unidad.
Very informative and interesting book. In depth about the subject matter, and amazing how many cultures apply properties of plants in their society. Makes me wonder why we now discontinue this type of practice. How is criminalization and punishment for use of plants address any issues of their possible downfalls?
Some points are still outdated. It states for example that there are no known receptors in the human brain for Salvinorin A... Also, some other minor ones such as Trichocereus spp. which years ago moved to the Echinopsis genus. In general it's a good book with lots of ethnographic and ethnobotanical information.
"Entheogens ... could be the appropriate medicine for hyper-materialistic humanity."Beautifully illustrated with art, poetry, and hundreds of photos, this book is a respectful study of the biology, chemistry, anthropology, history, and culture of the use and cultivation of entheogens. Fascinating revelations about how plants & humans co-evolved.
Schultes was the original Indiana Jones of the hallucinogenic plant. he was Terence McKenna 30 years before McKenna was born. in terms of identifying & cataloging the sacred plants used by tribal peoples, Schultes was (and is) THE GUY. this is where it all begins.
Though some of the information here has dated by now, this is still a good chemical and ethnobotanical resource for all kinds of hallucinogenic plants. And the pictures! It features tons of great indigenous art, botanical illustrations and photos, and much more.
Though not a "I can't wait to see what happens next" kind of book, in terms of info and photos, this is a fantastic compendium of the history of the world's psychoactive plants and how cultures have used them. These plants are everywhere in history, and have been used by everyone.
Thorough and nearly exhausting resource denoting the different types and varieties of hallucination-causing plants from all over the world. Lots of colorful photographs and useful information as to the origins and uses of these various mushrooms, herbs, and other fun vegetation.
Sopivaa luettavaa mm. shamanismista kiinnostuneille. Mielenkiintoinen ja laadukas kokonaisuus mutta valitettavasti sidontaan käytetty liima oli kuraa.
La guia oficial junkie por excelencia
A beautiful combination of scientific, ethnographic, botanical, and chemical information.
Un excelente viaje através de la botanica que existe a lo largo de Estados Unidos, Mexico y Sudamerica.
