https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/67863.Animal_Speak
Every time I dream or see an animal on my travels I go back to this book to understand its symbolism and what it should mean to me.It is like a dictionary of animal totems and symbolism, everyone should have a copy if he/she are on the Shamanistic road.
I was taught that if you want to know what the animals have to say then pack up your things and go live WITH them and listen!
Loved this book!
It was recommended to me by a friend when I mentioned a gorgeous red-shouldered hawk with a tortoise-shelled back and black-and-white striped tail sat on the railing right outside my window and stared at me for a good long minute!
That incident set my heart racing, and I felt the power of connection with a majestic creature that I had never thought possible.This book introduced me to the magic and power of those connections and communications with so many of the birds and animals that I'm surrounded by, as well as introductions to feather magic, fetishes, and an extensive dictionary of birds, animals, and the significance of each of their sightings.If you're interested in spirituality, philosophy, yoga, etc., join my Old Souls Book Club (https://www.goodreads.com/group/show/...) for other recommendations and thought-provoking conversations!
Ted Andrews obviously has a profound knowledge of the esoteric and presents the spiritual or magical powers of animals in an easy-to-read format.Personally, I was given this book from a Native American shaman for reference.
I was looking for more information on how to utilize my ' power/token animal' in my everyday life when it is/was separated from the shamanic journey.
While my particular animal is not in the reference pages I had to search between similar species-- and choose pertinent details.I do not totally subscribe to the Shamanic realm or path, but believe that the imaginative powers are incredibly real and important.
This is THE essential book for anyone working with animal spirit guides. Andrews covers just about every animal, bird and insect one could think of. He provides clear and lucid explanations of the characteristics of each animal guide and what one might gain by working with each animal. I plan to keep it as a reference, and I've already referred to it often. It's especially useful when I repeatedly encounter a specific animal in my daily travels, such as the hawk who took up residence in my back yard.
It gives a very accessible system for working with animal spirituality and symbolism.I really enjoyed the emphasis on mundane, practical activities such as collecting books and figurines, contributing to conservation and above all learning about the animal.
I also liked the logical approach of thinking about the animal's characteristics and extrapolating them into symbolism and your own life, and the emphasis on being able to define your own symbolism rather than relying on secondary sources.For a book with such a bad reputation for appropriation, I didn't find it too bad to read through as a whole.
If you're into animal symbolism and animal totems/guides, you'll love this book. It's more of a reference book, rather than one you sit to read all the way through. When I see an animal during a reading, meditation, or dream, I always look up the meaning in this book. I find that the meanings correspond with my own feelings about why the animal showed up in my life and give me additional insight.
This is a great reference book. Well organized and easy to use. I recommend it in book form rather than ebook as it is much easier to search for the information one is interested in.
I've never heard of this book, and have now seen it in 2 places this week. Maybe I will run across it in person soon.
I have had some wild experience in my life and every time I reference this book it tends to be right on and give me incite on all of them such has animal totem constantly presenting them self trying to send me a message and with this book you find out what is needed to complete the next step in your life.
It is a great book to have on the shelf for reference and has helped me out a lot through times where out I may of not understood the messages and lessons I was being sent.
With insights into the myths/lore and history surrounding animals, Animal Speak helps you to discover the power and spiritual significance of more than 100 different mammals, birds, insects, and reptiles.For anyone interested in Native American culture, shamanism, connecting with and understanding the creatures that share the Earth with us, Animal Speak is a must read book.
Even readers who don't subscribe to Shamanism will find the information Andrews provides on the mating, feeding and other behaviors invaluable in understanding the creatures we share the earth with.Animal Speak teaches the reader to pay more attention to, listen and learn from the animals around us.
Animal-Speak along with Animal-Wise work together to catalog the wisdom of the Animal Kingdom.
It is the best source I have found that catalogs so many different animals.
The two volumes works together - Animal-Speak has a general topic such as 'Spiders'; where Animal-Wise will have "Daddy Long-legs" or "Black Widow".
Animal-Speak has a small section on Fish, while Animal-Wise has a much bigger section on Ocean Animals.I have been using these two books for many years when working with Animal Totems.
The book also has ceremonies and exercises when working with one's Animal Totems.
This is the best book written to understand the symbolic significance of animals in our lives.
When an animal turns up in your physical life, especially if you see it repeatedly, it may have important messages for you.
Andrews describes the habitats, unique characteristics, and skills of each animal, including birds, mammals and reptiles, then probes the reader with a series of excellent questions to help us understand what role this animal plays in our life, and how we can learn from it.
This book will help you gain a greater appreciation and respect for all members of the animal kingdom.

Animal Speak is akin to attending a 101 class, more so if one is already familiar with its subject matter. It's easy reading and the language is simplistic, but Llewyllen publishing tends to be more interested in quantity not quality. Regardless, I’m content to have it on the shelf as a reference.Ted Andrews provides some interesting general information about animals native to North America, their mythology and folklore, and their symbolism. There are also exercises for meditation, working with animal medicine, and meeting one’s totems.
I love animals, and Andrews’ book evokes the time when humans didn’t consider themselves separate from other animals, and understood each others’ “speech.” I enjoyed reading the mythology and biology of different creatures, and what their habits and presence can teach us. Even if you don’t want to follow the rituals or meditations described in the book, it’s a great introduction to shamanism and a philosophy of connection with the natural world.
This is a great book for people just beginning to walk their 'earth walk' and become more in touch with Mother Nature and Native American spirituality. It discusses the language of nature, how to read omens, and the symbolism behind the significant presence that animals make in day to day life and what the personalized message is for you to learn from it. Great book!
I absolutely love this book and would recommend it to anyone interested in learning more about this world. I keep it along with animal wise as reference material and when it occurs to me that I've been seeing a particular animal a number of times I look it up to see what lesson I need to learn. I find it quite magical!
My go-to reference book any time I see something in nature that makes me pause. Very detailed and throrough. There is usually something in the description that helps me clarify a situation, or get a specific answer I am looking for.
Great reference book for all those with totems.
I'll speak to you if you speak to me.
This book is a dear companion for many years.
So far, I'm loving this book. It's been years since something has resonated so strongly with me. One of these days I'll get back to this book. I'd still like it as a reference book, though.
I need to buy this to come back to it again and again. Excellent.
This is a fascinating game, very informative. It is going to be a fun reference book to go back to for more information about animals as I see them.
A great book for those wishing to find and work with totem animals.
If you are already familiar with animal guides a large portion of this book will just cover the basics.
However, I thought the exercises/meditations in this book were great and the ones I've tried have been very effective.
I am very happy to add this book to my personal library.
If nothing else it is an amazing reference guide.
It includes animal "encyclopedias" on mammals, birds, and to a lesser extent insects and reptiles.
It also includes brief descriptions of mythology from numerous cultures regarding the different animals.
The 1-5 Star Review is the total of what I have to say about this book, specifically.Caveat: This review is historical/archival in nature. 'Date read' is speculative.This book is one of many books I have read about the occult/paganism/witchcraft. This was the readily available faith in my household as a child. Additionally, I worked for a company in this field, 2015-2016, and had to read an ocean of this stuff to do my job.
I truly loved this book when I first read it, and even more the second time around. The magic and child-like wonder that it manages to create, is truly wonderful. I would recommend to anyone who needs a pick-me up in the form of totem animals and native american mystery.
Love this book!
The book was interesting. I was not knowledgeable at all about spirit animals. I do have to say though that there are so many typos in this book that I am surprised it was actually published.
