https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/55021.Heaven_s_Prisoners
Its a vivid scene.This is the second book starring Dave Robicheaux, described by a local stripper as "I know you were a good cop and all that bullshit,' she said, 'but there's a lot of stuff you guys never see.
Still, no one can say that Burke doesn't breathe life into his setting and characters; I felt like I'd know most of them on the street (not that I'd likely wander down those particular streets) and be able to find my way to his tour boat.
3.75★A clue to detective Dave Robicheaux’s personality can be found in the following dialog with the local sheriff:S: “I’m not going to give a man a badge so he can be an executioner,” he said.D: “I wouldn’t need a badge for that.”S: “Are you going to tell me you can investigate (view spoiler)[your own wife’s murder (hide spoiler)] with any objection?”D: “I was never objective in any homicide investigation,” I said.
I also did not like how quickly Dave (view spoiler)[hooks up with another woman after his wife is murdered (hide spoiler)].
In this, the second Dave Robicheaux mystery, Dave turns in his badge and heads for the bayou. Soon the tranquility is shattered, and he is out for revenge. Good effective mystery, and the Louisiana atmosphere is a plus.
'Most people think of violence as an abstraction. It never is. It's always ugly, it always demeans and dehumanises, it always shocks and repels and leaves the witnesses to it sick and shaken. It's meant to do all those things'.  Heaven's Prisoners is the second in the Dave Robicheaux series by James Lee Burke and while not as powerful as Neon Rain, it's still a bloody intense story. Robicheaux has left the New Orleans PD and bought a boat and bait business on a bayou in New Iberia. Now married
Heaven's Prisoners is the second in the Dave Robicheaux series by James Lee Burke and while not as powerful as Neon Rain, it's still a bloody intense story.
Now married to Anne Ballard, life is quiet, relaxing, but one thing I've come to learn about Dave Robicheaux, serenity is fleeting and tribulation is never far away.
With what happens you can't help but think he brings it on himself, leading to an intense sadness but he's a character who'll never change, resolute and confrontational as ever, and it makes for a gripping read.
This is a revised review as of 4/14/2013 with images added for flavor which are from the old movie version and while the movie is worth a look I strongly suggest you read the novel first.  After book one Neon Rain our hero, David Robicheaux (hereinafter DR), has retired from the NOLA police department and opened a bayou fishery up by tapping into his pension. He's also married to his love interest from book one but DR can't avoid a mystery and one stumbles upon him while he's out fishing on the
He's also married to his love interest from book one but DR can't avoid a mystery and one stumbles upon him while he's out fishing on the bayou (they rescue a child from a small plane that sinks in the bayou) and just like any good fictional detective he pokes his nose into places and violent, corrupt people get angry.
But it disturbed me as much as it reassured me, because I wondered if Annie, like most people who live with alcoholics, was not partly motivated by fear that my unpredictable mood might lead all of us back into the nightmarish world that AA had saved me from.p. 102I sat at my kitchen table with a glass of iced tea and mint leaves and looked out the window at the blue jays swooping over the mimosa tree in the backyard.
If I didn't know what a fantastic writer James Lee Burke was Heaven's Prisoners may have made me pause and reconsider whether I wanted to continue this series.But it would have been because I was angry at Dave Robicheaux not because the book was badly written.This book had the same name of the main character inThe Neon Rain but the resemblance ended there.
The main character inThe Neon Rain was a hero who saved the day and sailed off into the sunset with the girl.
The Dave Robicheaux in Heaven's Prisoners was an idiot on a dry drunk whose stubbornness badly hurt not only himself but those he loved.
the innocent who suffer for the rest of us become anointed and loved by God in a special way; the votive candle of their lives had made them heaven's prisoners"James Lee Burke's novels are a wonderful reading experience.
This is the second novel in the Dave Robicheaux series.
The story opens while they are out on the bayou and witness a small plane crash.
I think this trait is one of the reasons Dave Robicheaux is such a compelling character.
In the novels I have read his recovery seems to be tenuous and there are slips.
I have read most of James Lee Burke's Dave Robicheaux series but, somehow I had managed to skip, Heaven's Prisoners, the second book in the series.
In reading it, I enjoyed taking a look at Robicheaux's life much earlier in his career as a cop in New Iberia, Louisiana than in more recent books.
I also enjoyed the fact that it was one of James Lee Burke's earlier works.Burke is an absolute artist with words, painting elegant and compelling pictures that are so vivid that reading his work is almost like watching the story unfold in real life.
For me, Heaven's Prisoners was something akin to watching Jordan shoot a boatload of free throws.
Free throws are an essential part of the game--crucial--but, in the end, not why I watch in the first place.
Why can't the referees swallow their whistle and let the players play?When Prisoners gets to the story and its crackling dialogue, it's fun.
All of these issues might go down easier if Burke wasn't so fond of getting to the foul line and swishing those free throws.
If some of that space Burke dedicates to imagery had gone there, Prisoners would've ranked much higher for my experience.Recommended only for readers who lean toward the literary in their mystery.
Well, this one wins the prize for robbing one of the holiday spirit. Phew, what a dark and gritty ride this book is, interspersed with profound thoughts.I had read later books in the Robicheaux world and wanted to read the first two, so now I have some key blanks filled in like the rescue of his "adopted" daughter from a submerged plane.Man, what emotional hits this book is filled with. I must now cleanse and jump into a very light and enjoyable collection of Christmas tales with Sherlock.
These novels excel in large part because the authors have become so deeply immersed in the cultures surrounding them that they can conjure up the sights and smells and feel of their settings, wedding their protagonists to the environment in an utterly natural fashion.In James Lee Burke’s venerable Dave Robicheaux series, the sultry and languid setting of southern Louisiana costars with the detective.
In Heaven’s Prisoners, the renegade detective tangles with the DEA and its infiltration of the 1980s Sanctuary Movement that enabled Salvadorans fleeing violent civil war at home to take refuge in US churches.James Lee Burke is a serious writer whose subject matter and literary skills transcend the genre.
A great crime series made even better by its setting in the bayous of Louisiana. This one didn't have as much punch as the first book in the series, "Neon Rain", but Dave Robicheaux is still a hard-boiled, kick ass and take names character. I'm impressed enough by Burke's writing that I will be sure to continue on with the series.
Unfortunately, I started reading this Dave Robincheaux series out of order simply because Black Cherry Blues was an Edgar Award winner.
This was the second book then Black Cherry Blues, the third in the series.
I like the rough and tumble writing and although I know very, very little about Cajun anything, am learning slowly since the locale is New Orleans and New Iberina with side trips near and far depending on the book.Do urge you, if you decide to read Burke, to start with The Neon Rain.
Deși începe mai greu, e un roman foarte mișto. Sentimental, dur, întunecat. Multă răzbunare, multă suferință și câteva fraze geniale. Recomand oricui seria asta. E foarte bună. Sper să mai apară câteva volume.
That said the book contains a far stronger wallop and content which Hollywood would never allow to be filmed.DR is retired from the detective business and is running a fishing and boat-rental business in Louisiana Bayou country with his beau who he met in the previous novel.
And the story is not at all about the little girl named Alafair, after Daves mum.
Robicheaux decides to go looking for an answer which has powerful consequences for him and his loved ones.The world of the Bayous comes to life on the pages, as are the seedy bars and world Dave visits in this book.
Perfect imagery paints the scene in the second entry of James Lee Burke’s ongoing Dave Robicheaux mystery series.
Often as bad as he is good, Dave Robicheaux proves to be an intriguing character on many levels.
The supporting characters are as intriguing as the lead, and each one proves far from perfect.
And the worst ones help determine a new definition of evil.Were it not for his strong sense of character and command of the written word, this novel might have failed.
If you like strong characters and a strong sense of place, then I highly recommend this gorgeous read into the depths of humanity.
And the most fascinating paradox of all is its protagonist, Dave Robicheaux.Dave Robicheaux is such a compelling character as he is wrecked with guilt over doing the right thing.
That's the beauty of the writing, a stock character, a crime protagonist archetype is given such surprising depth by Burke.And characterization is not the only place where Burke excels, his insight and introspection is profound and his descriptions are second to none.
There are writers who can paint a vivid picture with prose, that makes the reader feel like he is looking at an old photograph that conjures beautiful memories.
Big picture: I really enjoy author James Lee Burke's work (even if it's depressing and violent and dark and ...) and Burke's longest-running protagonist, Dave Robicheaux, is growing on me, but, even though it's my own fault, it's disorienting reading the early books in this series (written decades ago) about a protagonist that I met late in the series - when the author was in full voice - while Robicheaux was experiencing his twilight years.
The style and the mood and the feel are the same, but I expect I would have enjoyed the early work more if I hadn't read the later work, and become attached to Burke's other protagonists, first.The good news is I'm meeting, discovering, and being surprised by characters whose paths I've crossed much later, and that's kind of refreshing.
Darker and more emotionally brutal than the first book in the Dave Robicheaux series, The Neon Rain, Heaven’s Prisoners stays involving but ultimately follows the tradition (maybe) begun by Raymond Chandler in The Long Goodbye, leaving the reader wondering “wait—what just happened?
And what did agency x have to do with it?” In Chandler’s case, there’s some evidence that not even the author knew the answers.
In this, I think the author knows the score, but it was beyond my ability to tease out the connections with confidence.
Nevertheless, I enjoyed the ride, although I’m a bit exhausted from reading the first two Robicheaux books in quick succession.
Heaven's PrisonersIt's been a long while since I've read a book in this series. I don't recall the ones I've read being this dark. Of course, it is a murder mystery, so it shouldn't be bright and fun. My main love of this series, and the author, is because I am from the same city as them. Reading Burke's description of New Iberia and the surrounding areas brought me home, and at the same time kind of made me cringe. Burke does a fine job of painting the pictures your mind needs to see.
finished this one yesterday early evening the 29th of august 2018 good read four stars i really liked it, on a burke kick and have another ready to go.
Try as he might, he can’t find tranquility, even after retiring from the NOLA force, taking a wife and moving into the bayou to run a bait shop.
I would say that Burke totters on the edge of overdoing it in this regard, but manages to balance the whole story with enough action, atmosphere and poetic descriptions of the bayou country to keep things interesting.
Although he may dwell on the seedy underbelly of the bayou, I can’t imagine anyone painting a better picture in words of NOLA than Burke.
I wish Burke would pay a little more attention to some of the plot details and less on the poetic descriptions.
That I can't muster up much enthusiasm for Dave Robicheaux, and that I need my mysteries to bemore cerebral.I had heard James Lee Burke interviewed on BBC's book review podcast, andthe three panelists were positively gushing over him.
So I gave him another shot, after being unimpressed with The Neon Rain many years ago.I made it through more than half the novel before giving up.I don't like Robicheaux.
I like mystery/suspense novels to havemore psychological aspects than slam-bang shoot 'em up, punch 'em up action.
I also find Burke's style to be repetitive: At the end of mostdialogue sequences, there follows a description of the sky, smells, andsights of what's going on around him.
If you have never read a David Robicheaux detective/mystery novel, you don't know what you are missing.
James Lee Burke is about to release the 18th novel featuring the Louisiana detective.
This book is number 2 in the series and I really enjoyed it.
Burke's descriptions of life in Louisiana are heartbreaking beautiful.
This book was written in 1988 long before Katrina's devastation and now the BP oil spill.
Found out that this book was also made into a movie ...
Pick up one of the Robicheaux books and you just might find yourself hooked ....
and craving Cajun food and Jax beer.
Do they still make Jax?
Auch Band 2 der Robicheaux-Reihe hat mich mit seinen Figuren und seinen Konflikten gut gepackt, es ist eine spannende Mischung aus dem Setting Louisianna und dem Protagonisten Dave Robicheaux, der es einfach nie gut sein lassen kann und der so viele Kämpfe kämpfen muss, weil er den gegen sich selbst nie gewinnen wird. Toller, rauer Krimistoff, mit vielen Emotionen.
His second book in it, 'Heaven's Prisoners', was published in 1988 and is like a time capsule for the tough policing that used to take place in the 'good old days'.
Burke's lead character, David Robicheaux, is a throwback of the first order- tough, violent, romantic, principled, and unafraid.
Heaven's Prisoners opens with the recently retired-from-the-force Robicheaux and his wife spending the afternoon floating on the bayou in a boat when they witness the crash of a small plane.
He's really among the best that I've come across at writing this beautifully in the midst of some pretty violent and nasty action.Heaven's Prisoners comes to a fairly predictable rough ending.
Overall this is a pretty good book. I like Burke's prose as it bounces from hardboiled to lyrical. The descriptions of Louisiana and the bayou are captivating and Robicheaux's memories and nightmares of Vietnam are enchanting and haunting. There is a lot of filler though. For instance the romantic scenes are of the grocery store aisle variety. I get a little tired of reading about the main character's "loins." It reminds me of awkward 'birds and the bees' conversations you have when you are a teenager.
I am hooked! I already know after only reading the second book in this series that this is going to be my favorite of all time. I have read some of James Lee Burke's novels in the past but it has been so long that I'm really enjoying starting at the beginning of the series again. What a great author!

Fiction is an art form and there are various philosophies that surround the process of writing, the formation of characters (heroes, anti-heroes, protagonists and antagonists) as well as the stylistic approach to the work itself.For example: there are writers who see art as unique in that it alone can give us a world as it should be.
Characters who work in the world as it is and expose society's deep flaws and the dire consquences of such flaws, flaws within the main character as well as the world in which he lives.Necessary questions are asked: through Dave Robicheaux, Burke questions the Rule of Law. Pits it against the Rule of Man. What are the consequences?
