https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/288987.Swag
We're sort of just dropped right in, but I got a good feel for Stick and his partner Frank after only a handful of pages.There are plenty of tense moments -- virtually every "job" they go on is riddled with them -- and I found it amusing that I'd get scared for their safety even though they're pretty much scumbags (nice, charming scumbags overall, but still scumbags).
It's also a good "hangout novel," in that the pages in between all the action and double-crosses are almost as much fun, just hanging out with Stick and Frank and their various friends and associates.
When used car salesman Frank Ryan catches Ernest Stickley stealing a car off his lot, ideas start going through his head.
Soon, Ryan and Stickley are armed robbers and damn good ones.
The two main characters, Ryan and Stick, are cast from one of Leonard' standard molds: the criminals who aren't as smart as they think they are.
Stick's nervous and not all that confident while Ryan is overconfident and thinks he knows everything.
I loved that Frank Ryan had his rules of robbery, just like Elmore Leonard has his rules of writing.It wasn't perfect but I liked it quite a bit.
Frank Ryan is working as a used car salesman when he catches Ernest Stickly, Jr.--"Stick"--boosting a car from the lot.
(This book was first published as Ryan's Rules.)Stick signs on and the pair pull a string of successful robberies in the Detroit suburbs during a very profitable summer.
Stick is reluctant, but Frank says that now they are experienced criminals they can adjust the rules to take advantage of new opportunities.This may or may not be a good idea for Frank and Stick, but it's great fun for the reader.
Frank Ryan and Ernest Stickly, Jr. are great examples, and this is a book that will appeal to virtually any fan of crime fiction.
If you're looking for fast reads and entertainment, Leonard is your man.
For entertainment alone I'd give it five stars, the reason I am only giving it four is that it didn't have any emotional draw for me.
It's not like I felt a connection with any of the characters, including during the (view spoiler)[betrayal (hide spoiler)] at the end.
The plot rapidly progresses from moment of meeting between the two characters to the peak of their success to their ultimate undoing.
So I'll say it again, if you're looking for a beach read during your getaway winter vacation, Leonard is a good place to start looking.
"After the first few weeks he began to take it in stride.
They knew exactly what they were doing." - Elmore Leonard, SwagI've read several of Leonard's 90s crime novels (Get Shorty, Out of Sight, etc) but I was given Elmore Leonard's Four Novels of the 1970s for my birthday (thanks Keith) and decided to start with 'Swag'.
It was great, gritty Detroit crime fiction.
So, in honor of this novel, here are ten rules for Detroit hardboiled fiction:1.
There needs to be a list of rules.2.
There needs to be several twists.7.
All rules must eventually be broken.
We're so used to Elmore Leonard being an icon of modern crime fiction that it's hard to remember that back in the 1960s and 1970s he was just another genre author, more known for his Westerns than the crime novels he began turning out in 1969.
Swag, the third of his Detroit-based crime stories, is an example of Leonard in progress but not yet the king.Ernest "Stick" Stickley is a career petty criminal from Kentucky eking out a living in pre-apocalyptic Detroit.
The whole middle of the book chronicles Stick's and Frank's adventures with armed robbery, which rapidly become repetitive.
This was my first Elmore Leonard -- I wasn't expecting too much..., since he's so popular/successful, you mainly hear a lot of criticism about how lousy he is..., and the comparisons with James Ellroy worried me, since Ellroy - though I liked the two books I read - is, after all, more than a little artificial. But this was just a straightforward great read -- characters, plot-twists, utterly believable... It was a good book to start with.
This one had great characterization but some of the hold-ups don't really, erm, hold-up nowadays; actually, I don't see how some of them would have held-up even at the time this was published in the mid-70s.
I know most stores didn't have big time surveillance, but the employees and shop owners did have eyes.
I picked this particular book to try out Leonard's work because out of all of his, and he has a lot, this one seemed to be a fan favorite.
From a character point of view, I can see why.
All the characters were uniquely themselves, but were still relatable.
#17 in my Top 20 Books I Read in 2015: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zIWkw...This is how you write a thriller: gritty, brutally real, fun fun fun, and SHORT by God, the kind of book you can read during an afternoon on the beach and still have time for a swim and a game of beach volley. Leonard's up there with the very best.
My daughters were horrified to see that I had a book entitled "Swag." A quick Google for current usage will explain.Leonard's "Swag" is a highly enjoyable crime buddy story, with snappy odd-couple dialog, and a few twists that carry on right to the last page.
Stick is a cool guy and like most of Leonard's work, this story just moves.In fact, I was late to work one day this week because I got caught up in the last 3rd of the book and had to finish.
They are caught up in situations they don't want to be in or think they can control but they are never in control.They just don't know it until it's too late.When I return this to the library on Sunday, I believe I'll be replacing it with what I think is the next in the "Stick" stories, the appropriately titled—Stick.
Who doesn't like Elmore Leonard novels?
I’m blown away by my first Elmore Leonard and must soon read another.
On the face of it ‘Swag’ is a smallish story, sparely told, about two small-time crooks in 1970s Detroit, but Leonard’s subtle art makes it so much more.
He trusts the reader to know what isn’t written – the laughs, the plot implications, the dilemmas, the deepening psychology.
The plot is clever but unforced.
Elmore Leonard was my Facebook friend – I wish it wasn't too late to be the millionth to tell him what a master craftsman he is.
The comedic stick-up team. The first names alone remind me of the newspaper comic strip Frank & Earnest. The fun starts with an Abbott and Costello style car theft. The line-up and arraignment hearing just continues the humorous story. This is the first appearance of Frank Ryan (Luke Wilson) and Ernest "Stick" Stickley (Burt Reynolds). I'm not sure if Frank is any relation to the Jack Ryan of The Big Bounce and The Unknown Man #89. They are obviously no relation to Tom Clancy's Jack Ryan.
I wouldn't call it great, but the story was good. One thing that is great though is Elmore's use of dialogue. The man is a master.
I’m not familiar with the crime fiction genre, so I can’t comment on it in those terms. But as an easy summertime book-club read, it works quite well. It starts out with Frank and Stick taking a very professional business-like approach to armed robbery, and it works well for them. But success brings its own challenges, mainly the temptation to try to move beyond that which has worked so well. A good deal of what follows is predictable but entertaining, but there’s a lot that’s not predictable and even more entertaining.
It was the synopsis that got me, but more than that it was the Boston Globe quote on the back describing Leonard's prose as being "lean and shifty," which is exactly what I wanted to take a loot at since I'm working on achieving the same kind of atmosphere in one of my current projects.At any rate, I had a great time with this book.
I wanted to get a look at how real men act, think, and behave, both on the page and with one another.
The dialogue between the main guys, Ryan and Stick, was entertaining, witty, and above all, it was real.
Elmore Leonard.
****.This is the second novel included in the recent volume from Library of America.
We get to meet Ernest (Stick) and Frank, two low level hoods who decide to get into the business of armed robbery.
Leonard manages to develop his humorous side in this novel, although the violence is still there.
His hoods now come full of sayings and adages that they freely offer to each other and form the basis of their personalities.
We’d like to offer some advice to them, but we are forced to look on silently.
I figured out the trick. I have to stop reading in the middle of a chapter if I’m going to put these books down at all. Otherwise, there’s no chance. Either it’s three o’clock in the morning and I’ve read the whole thing or it’s evening and last thing I knew it was noon. Earnest “Stick” Stickley Jr. and his partner in how to achieve success and happiness in armed robbery, Frank Ryan? Yes, please. All day long.
This is absolutely my favourite Elmore Leonard novel. One that also introduced me to what is now my favourite summer drink, 'The Salty Dog'.Other reviewers will have given you the gist of the story. All I'll add is that the ending will twist you around like you were made of rubber - it's incredible.
I read this because the New York Review of Books had an interesting article about Leonard's writing. It was a relaxing pleasure to read -- two guys and a life of theft of grocery stores, etc. as a kind of job. I haven't read Elmore Leonard in a long time, and I really liked this. It was straightforward both in plot and writing, and was a great vacation book.
"Everybody had to be a smart-ass, get a laugh and make it look easy. It wore you out, thinking, just staying in a conversation."
I picked this up because Frank Muller performed the audio edition.
Swag is a fun crime novel.
The heroes in question are a pair of low-life armed robbers who aren't as smart as they think they are.One reviewer compared it to a Tarantino film and I think that's probably the best description that can ever be given to it.
There's a lot of casual conversation that's just fun to listen to.
It hooked me and held fast.I'd probably rate it a 4, four-and-a-half, but the late, great Frank Muller being the narrator pulled it back to a 5.
His economy of style.In addition to reading all of these appreciations, I knew Leonard wrote about crime, and there is perhaps no better genre to enjoy than crime, police procedurals, detective novels, and mysteries.
Based on the reviews I read and my appreciation of the genre, I decided to try a Leonard book.
A pair of guys who generate some sympathy along the way even as you see them blunder deeper down the rabbit hole.If you enjoy crime writing at all, then I’d have a hard time thinking that you wouldn’t enjoy this Elmore Leonard novel written in the 1970s.
And because the two start out with a list of ten rules they have to adhere to, variously called the Ten Commandments or the ten rules for succes, it’s also a bit of a parody on the standard American self help handbook.And Leonard is also very good on the weird bromance of these two guys who decide to throw in their lot with each other: it’s not quite the odd couple (the humour is much more subdued), but the little frictions do remind us (and remind the characters themselves) of a long marriage.And I guess now I also know where Tarantino got some of his ideas, like that of a hold-up of a bar being foiled by the armed criminals who are more dangerous than the actual stick-up guy (the opening of Pulp Fiction).
leonard is good for what ails you on a cold grey (okay, so the sun is out today)...if the phone would not ring...someone trying to sell me something...that or someone with the final offer...that they've been offering now for about three four years.
should i take them up on it?this one is for janedunno who she is...dunno much about leonard the man...story stars:there was a photograph of frank in an ad that ran in the detroit free press and showed all the friendly salesmen at red bowers chevrolet.
Swag was written in 1976 but it has all the right ingredients; dumb criminals, crooked cops, smart ladies and a twist at the end you have to read two or three times to be sure you got it all worked out.Plus that fantastic way Leonard has of throwing in small bits of conversation which may add nothing to the plot, but tell you everything you need to know about the characters.
Every time I think I've found my favorite Elmore Leonard novel, I read another and fall head over heels in love with that one.
Set in the 1970s, "Swag" tells the story of Frank Ryan and Ernest "Stick" Stickley, Jr., a used car salesman and car thief respectively who decide to team up and commit a series of armed robberies throughout the greater Detroit area.
Pick this one up for a hi-octane, funny, well-written romp through 1970s Detroit, and see what happens when Frank and Ernest--get it?--start breaking their own rules for collecting the maximum amount of swag.
The only way that I could bring this book to life in my mind was to imagine that I was watching a Quentin Tarantino movie.
"Swag" is quick and readable, and nothing that I would have ever picked up without the impetus of my book club.
Except Stick, of course, and I say of course because I assume that he is meant to be the emotional center of the book.
This is the question that makes the book interesting - why is Stick a criminal?
Is it lack of imagination?
Falling in with the wrong crowd?
Matt Damon and...uh...well, you work on that, and I'll work on the drink.The drink choice is easy: it has to be a Salty Dog, a simple little drink that is not only consumed frequently in this novel, but also plays a critical role in one of the funniest scenes.
(Hint: it's the shower scene.)A Salty Dog is nothing but gin and grapefruit juice, served over ice with salt on the rim (omit the salt and it's called a Greyhound).
Fill the glass with ice, add gin and grapefruit juice, and stir vigorously.Even Better Than a Salty Dog (when I made this at a party for librarians, I called it the Dewey Decimal.
Swag was a turning point in Elmore Leonard's writing.
The plot was a bit more complicated than his past books.
The book had a more complex middle than any of his works with a suitable number of twists and turns.
What this novel has in common with other Leonard novels is that we don't get to find out what happens to the characters at the end.
The story ends before their fate with the law is determined.
Leonard does have a crossover character from a previous work, Leon Woody.
Leonard even points out the earlier Ryan character and states that they are not related.
