https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24337.Ella_Enchanted
Seeing the film version, lead me to this Newberry award winning book by Gail Carson Levine.
Although not instantly enamored, Ella over time realizes what her curse could do to Char and his kingdom, and seeks out Lucinda to take back this curse once and for all.
In this modern retelling, Ella alone seeks out to reverse the curse cast upon her by Lucinda, making her a strong heroine character for girls.
The movie was fun yet Disneyfied, but Gail Carson Levine's book version of Ella Enchanted is a fun, strong read and worthy of its Newberry, rating a solid 4 stars.
Feminists often denounce traditional fairy tales because they perpetuate the ideals of a patriarchal society by encouraging girls to behave like proper princesses and wait for charming princes to take charge and save the day.
One example of this new fairy tale genre is the 1998 children’s novel "Ella Enchanted" by Gail Carson Levine, which takes an untraditional approach to retelling the story of Cinderella.
(In the novel, the severity of Ella’s curse in constantly underscored with passages explaining how little control Ella has over her own life: “If someone told me to hop on one foot for a day and a half, I’d have to do it.
Such a cute story, it was a lot of fun!
I must say the book is  MUCH  better than the movie.The style of the writing was kind of weird for me, but not in a bad way.
Sometimes it takes someone else to bring that strength out of you and that's what Char does for Ella unknowingly.The magic book was a nice touch and added what the other characters were thinking without actually changing the narrator of the story.
It's like after awhile it doesn't seem to matter, which I guess makes sense since the book isn't really about her grieving for her mother.
Wasn't evil Hattie enough?SERIOUSLY THIS STORY IS ABSOLUTELY PRECIOUS AND PERFECT AND THE MOVIE RUINED IT, I CAN NOT STRESS THAT ENOUGH FOR YOUThere is no need for a fan club for the prince.
Does this girl look like that?NO.Or that the stepmother and stepsisters are suppose to be fat.But really, I'm upset about the ogres.So in the perfect-little book, Ella has a knack for languages.
But what else do you need to know besides it is a retelling of Cinderella and the "Cinderella" of the book has a curse to obey all commands ever?
i posted this pretty-okay-but-mostly-objectifying-childhood crushes review of this extremely-actually-great book.
Because hey, guess what, I absolutely goddamn love middle grade.
It has a reputation for being among the worst book-to-film adaptations, and that is, guess what, totally warranted.
But uh…(whispers) I guess that’s kind of why/how I like them both?I GREW UP ON BOTH OF THEM OKAY.
I say for the second time.This book, in case you live under a rock that prevents you from hearing about great middle-grade adventure retellings of fairytales with feisty female protagonists, is a Cinderella retelling wherein Cinderella (just Ella tho) has been cursed with obedience.
Ella Enchanted is like a koala.
A big, soft, cute koala.And if you mess with it, it'll use it's big, sharp, not-so-cute claws to tear your face off.Seriously.It's just a cute little fairy tale for teenage girls about a silly little world.
Accept it for what it is.
Leave it at that.
Don't consider it from a feminine perspective, don't rationalize it from a historical stand-point, don't try to analyze is for hidden metaphors or literary value.Just read, rinse, repeat and move on.[image error]http://x92.xanga.com/639b1b4678130299...You do NOT want a face full of this!ETA: I have just seen the movie for Ella Enchanted.
Don't even think about the movie at all while you're reading this.Do that, and you'll enjoy this book immensely.On the day she was born, Ella of Frell was given the gift of obedience by the foolish and careless fairy, Lucinda.
Ella, Hold your tongueKiss me.Erhh...well, that's not such an unpleasant order **coughs** but uhh yeah.
Sorry mouse people.❎ An established relationship between Cinderella and the Prince before the night of the ball.
This book is looking for someone - people - to share an adventure with.
A fairy tale won't be as magical without a happily ever after.
Mini review:DNFGR Ultimate Reading Challenge: My, What Big Teeth You Have. As a child I thoroughly enjoyed Ella Enchanted (the movie)! I decided to give the book a go. Unfortunately it didn't work for me. I was actually enjoying it in the beginning. Once the step-sisters were introduced the writing style changed dramatically. I'm not exactly sure why this happened. I found myself losing interest in the book. This was definitely a personal thing. I do still recommend.
$1.99 Kindle sale, Dec. 24, 2017. Charming YA retelling of Cinderella, with some imaginative twists. I enjoyed it thoroughly!
First read of the 2016 Booktube-a-thon! This completed the challenge of reading and watching a book to movie adaptation (which I am about to watch right now). This was very meh, unfortunately. It contained my most hated trope and for some reason it took me such a long time to get through! I loved the magical world though! Around the Year in 52 Books Challenge Notes:- 12. A childhood classic
I never liked Cinderella as a kid.
Obviously, I am not the only girl who had a problem with the fairy tale, and fortunately, Gail Carson Levine decided to do something about it.
Her Cinderella (Ella of Frell) is smart, stubborn, and pretty damn feisty.
Her only problem is that when she was born, a well-meaning fairy gave her the gift of obedience.
So, naturally, she sets out to find the fairy, lift the curse, get rid of her stepmother and stepsisters, and maybe even end up with Prince Char.
(Char as in Charmont, geddit?) A lovely story, and much better than anything Disney could come up with.
This still stands as one of my favorite books.
The fantasy elements are clever and not too over the top.
Ella is witty and pretty clever herself, not to mention strong and determined and resourceful.
Good or evil, protagonist or minor background character, they have an opinion, they exert at least some control over their own destiny, they are quietly secure in the knowledge of their own power.The movie was terrible, folks, so don't go by that.
(Anne Hathaway, why must you insist in being in movies that ruin my favorite kids books?)
“It is helpful to know the proper way to behave, so one can decide whether or not to be proper.”  You can find this review and all of my other reviews at Novel Descent Thanks for the support!I feel like this is a confession that I will regret making. I was a fan of the movie *hides* This is my first time reading Ella Enchanted and now I understand why everyone hates the film!Ella Enchantedis what every great middle-grade novel should be. Great adventures, obstacles to over-come, engaging chara
I was a fan of the movie *hides* This is my first time reading Ella Enchanted and now I understand why everyone hates the film!Ella Enchantedis what every great middle-grade novel should be.
Yes, Ella and Char were a little young to be talking about marriage but we aren't talking about modern times here - they were just at the right age in a different century.
Yes, I enjoyed the film and still do.
However, I never grew up with the book and after reading it, I now know why fans are so harsh on the film.
This is a long time favorite of mine. I first read it when I was about 10 and I still love it. The movie adaptation was a travesty I don’t like to talk about.
This was really a brilliant bit of characterization and kept the book from being overwhelming disturbing (which it would have been if Ella had been taking all the abuse without a murmur) and gave me a feisty non-annoying heroine I could actually root for.
Perhaps it was because I felt slightly worn after reading Ella Enchanted.
Obviously, people taking advantage of Ella’s *gift* was what the story was about, but I found it genuinely stressful at points to read.
However, I have read other stress-producing books that I loved so I still can’t quite articulate what ingredient this book was missing to make me like it more.
I was nervous to read this because it's like everyone's Childhood Favourite Book.
This is a good book and I had a great time...but I don't call it a favourite.
The style isn't my favourite (even though it's 1st person) and I was just SO FRUSTRATED with all the bullying Ella went through.
I also felt old and kind of detatched and the passages where they spoke in gobbly-gook in ogre language just had me wondering if the author slapped the keyboard for the phrases or if there was rhyme and reason.
هذه الرواية ساحرة وخلابة بقدر ما فيها من ساحرات وعمالقة وغيلان وخيالفي الصفحات ال 80 الأخيرة طالني سحر الرواية وتحولت لطفلة جل ما تتمناهأن تنتهي الحكاية بنهاية سعيدة أبدية وأن تعود إيللا لطبيعتها وتتخلص من تلكالهبة اللعينة اللي منحت لها وهي طفلة ( إطاعة الأوامر ) وأن ينتهي مسلسلالطاعات والخنوع وتنفيذ كل أمر ,سخيف كان أو مهين  وأن تعيش حياتها كما تحب لا كما يمليها الآخرون
Based on the Cinderella story, there are a few notable differences, namely that Ella was "blessed" with the "gift" of obedience by the fairy Lucinda, who thinks all her gifts (such as turning you into a squirrel) are wonderful.
Ella learns to be defiant even while she is forced to obey, but the trick doesn't always work.When, at fifteen, her mother dies several things happen.
Firstly, she meets Prince Char and forms a friendship with him, and secondly her father decides to send her to finishing school along with the two hideous daughters of Dame Olga, who has her sights set on Sir Peter.
Holy cow. This book was waaaaaay awesome. I sat down just wanting to enjoy it, not critique it, and... that's pretty much what happened. (And yes, I read it in one sitting. But I was on a plane...)

This book gets five huge, shiny stars because of the following conversation I had with my 12 year old today:"Mom, Kate (name changed) was teasing me at school today, but I don't think it was friendly teasing.
I'm not going to listen to Kate anymore.
I'll still be nice, but I'm going to step back."Thank you, Gail Carson Levine, for crafting an empowering story for girls, and for helping my daughter see, through the lens of Ella's experiences, that always trying to conform to others can be like living with a curse.
The main character, Ella, is a young woman, almost 15, who is cursed with obedience as an infant.
A fairy thinks she's blessing the baby by forcing her to be obedient, but that's not really how it turns out.
After a family tragedy, the previously sheltered Ella is forced out into the world where she goes on a quest to find the fairy who cursed her and ask for relief from her burden.Two-thirds of the way through, the book becomes the retelling of the classic Cinderella story.
$1.99 on US Amazon: July 23, 2016.I've had this on my TBR list for a couple years now and was thinking of deleting it since it's a "middle grade" book and I'm getting old, but then I read this in the blurb:Gail Carson Levine's examination of traditional female roles in fairy tales takes some satisfying twists and deviations from the original.
Ella is bound by obedience against her will, and takes matters in her own hands with ambition and verve.
Her relationship with the prince is balanced and based on humor and mutual respect; in fact, it is she who ultimately rescues him.Nope, it's staying on my list.
I felt like the author said to herself: "I'm going to really revamp the Cinderella classic!
And she's going to go on this awesome journey that's going to be epic and life changing!"All that ended halfway through the book: The journey, the special creatures, the seemingly important gifts and details, the developmental steps...
She made it seem so damn important that we should know about these gifts and all the way through the novel Ella is hiding them and they're special and they're everything her father ever wanted...What happens to them?!We don't know!
Ella Enchanted is my favorite Cinderella retelling! It's so creative and fun, and the skillful storytelling really brings the characters to life. The friendship and romance that develops is sweet and compelling.
Fun, clean, age appropriate, fantasy retelling of Cinderella. I will be passing this one on to my 10 year old daughter. She will love it.
Ella Enchanted is a cute fairytale.
I saw the movie years ago and thought I’d give the book a try.
The premise is the same, a good meaning fairy bestowed a terrible gift on a child to be ever obedient.
Sure it seems like a good idea except there is no single person that Ella has to be obedient to, anyone can give a command and she has to follow.
This is one of the few instances that I enjoyed the movie version a little more.
But as light fairytales go it was fun.

This book is truly amazing, in my opinion. A clever retelling of Cinderella, this book was one of my favorites when I was younger, and I still look back at it with fondness today. It is definitely one of the best juvenile fantasy books out there, and I highly recommend it.
