https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42932.Whirlwind
He has enough superficial understanding and genuine appreciation of Chinese and Japanese culture to make Shogun and Tai-Pan read like glossy action-movie tourist brochures to a compellingly different world, inhabited by (sort of) real people, that we'd like to leave behind our real lives to visit for awhile.Unfortunately, this is far less the case for Whirlwind, Clavell's fictionalization of the 1979 Iranian Revolution led by Khomeini.
But where his other novels depict the exotic settings of his stories, and the exotic characters who inhabit them, with a sensitivity that at least tries (in a limited kind of way) to shed light on the workings of another culture, here he has settled for caricature in the most unpleasant sense.
I'm not quick at giving books five stars, but I feel this one deserved the best rating I could give.
It isn't a quick read, but I liked that as well.A lot of characters played a role in the book.
The same goes for the relations between the characters.
It all came together nicely and neat.This book is one of the showpieces of my Iran themed book collection.
Some day I will read it for a third time.If you're a fervant reader and interested in a story that mostly took place in Iran you've got to give it a shot.
It is related but not, which bings up mixed feelings for me.
It kind of feels like Clavell was using a familiar model to tell a modern tale, but that he had added it on after the story had already ended.
From the perspective that Shogun and Whirlwind are bookends on the story told in Tai-Pan, Gai-Jin, and Noble House this fits the bill.
I think I would have preferred that Clavell use a different framework to tell this story, but don't hold it against him.
This is still a fun story on modern events (with particular appropriateness for the events of 2007).
OUTSTANDING ...
all his books.
Historical and cultutal insight of Japan, China and Persia (Iran).
Story lines that weave within weaves ...
crisp personalities of swashbuckling adventures of man's struggle against overwhelming odds ...
faith hanging on a hope and a prayer.Anyone looking for a riveting series of books ...
James Clavell is your man.A great loss to historical fiction upon his death.Note - Mr. Clavell was, himself, a Japanese POW in in WWII.
After the war, stuck in a slump looking for a job, his wife encouaged him to write his experiences of a POW.
He composed KING RAT in 45 days ...
What’s more, now that I’m older and wiser and more well-traveled (I haven’t been to Iran, but have been to several other Middle Eastern countries depicted in the novel, including Iraq, Turkey, Kuwait, and the UAE), this novel resonates with me just that much more.What a paradox: on the one hand, its length (1147 pages) notwithstanding, it’s the most action-packed and fastest-paced Clavell novel of the four I’ve read, but OTOH it’s also the slowest and most challenging read of the bunch (I can’t blame that on the length of the book, as I finished the equally voluminous “Shogun” and “Noble House” considerably quicker).
The Asian Saga: a tale of Iran's revolution.
Whirlwind was absolutely horrid! Not only was the story out of focus; it was simply a complete mess of characters and settings. I thought this would be similar to his other fantastic stories, (Noble House, Tai-Pan), in quality of plot and character only to be sorely disappointed. I would not recommend this novel to an enemy!
James Clavell’s Asian Saga is one of my favorite book series ever.
Keeping track of his mammoth casts was an effort that was worth the effort.For years, I’d wanted to read Whirlwind, the 1986 novel that proved to be the second-to-last that Clavell produced before his death in 1994.
It was years before I got through all the other entries, so I hadn’t really looked for it.When I’d finally read all the others and knew that no more books were coming, I was naturally eager to finish off the series and tackle Whirlwind.
Book stores always carried all the other novels in The Asian Saga, but never Whirlwind.
I was fortunate enough to be mentored and befriended by James Clavell, and value his work and opinions over many. Unfortunately, this was a departure for him, and my least favorite of his works.
Шварцвалд и Блек Форест буквално означават едно и също, но за сведение на преводача принципно първото е общоприетото наименование.
I was a little disappointed with "Whirlwind." While it's been years, I remember loving "Shogun," and thought I'd be wrapped up in this story as well.This book was fine, simply OK, but it is hard to read a 1,000 plus page mediocre book.Part of the problem for me was the characters.
All the Iranian characters were double crossing, turning on so many people I never could figure out who was working for or with who.
Again, this book was fine, but I would have rather spent my time reading something really great.
Clavell specialized in the epic and this book is epic in scale. Nevertheless, a good editor could have made all the difference with this book. Having said that, the book is largely successful in that it works as a thriller with great cliffhanger moments and tense action scenes. The moral universe is very black and white though. There could also have been a more realistic examination of the real reasons for the revolution. The right wing commentary on the British political scene was a bit pathetic as well.
I finished re-reading the second of my four pillar books- favorite books that I re-read every 2 or 3 years. This was probably the 9th or 10th time I've read this one. It's amazing how you notice new things each time you read a book, even a book with which you're exceedingly familiar. By the way, I highly recommend this novel to anyone- it's about a Scottish helicopter company in Iran during the Islamic Revolution of 1979 and it's fascinating to see how foreigners survive in a country that has suddenly become hostile to them.
James Clavell portrays Iranians much in the same way that he portrays Asians - secretly devious. They all have three levels of beliefs, their public beliefs, their private beliefs which they share with those closest to them, and their real beliefs which they only think in their most secret hearts. When they gain a position of power and influence they all turn out to be quite devious and recalcitrant, no matter how sweet-natured and friendly they seemed before. As always Clavell's heroes are the capitalistic Europeans who believe in free trade and honor. Still a very interesting read.
King Rat and Shogun are two of my favorite books, so it's not as though I dislike James Clavell. I couldn't finish this book. All of the male characters were so similar, it was difficult to distinguish one from the other. Every one them were ridiculously macho. I read well over 300 pages but felt no desire to return to the book. I donated it to Goodwill. I wouldn't pass it along to a friend. Dreadful book!
I read this one last, and it took me a long time to really get into it. Set in Iran, I was a little put off ... until I caught on about the helicopters, lovers, spies, fanatics, revolutionaries, friends and betrayers -- another carefully woven masterpiece.
I have thoughly enjoyed every James Clavell book I have read. This too, but about Iran this time, not the Far East.
An absolute monster of a novel, over 1250 pages and 3 and a bit days of Beach reading. It tells the story of the Iranian revolution of 1979 using a fictional firm of helicopter services, based all over different parts of the country. Including two pilots with Iranian wives and two with their expat wives in country. A vast scope to cover over a period of 10 days or so, including a tumultuous end phase.
Finally, I have finished James Clavell's Asian Saga! I have begun reading this series of six books, back in 2009. I read one giant book every year, and I finally finished all six of them, starting with  Shogun ,  Tai-Pan ,  Gai-Jin ,  King Rat , and  Noble House . Unlike the first five books, this story is not set in East Asia, but rather, in Iran, in 1979. There are connections to the families and companies that were introduced in the previous five books. But for the most part, the narrative he
Finally, I have finished James Clavell's Asian Saga!
I read one giant book every year, and I finally finished all six of them, starting with 
. Unlike the first five books, this story is not set in East Asia, but rather, in Iran, in 1979.
Whether it is set in Japan, or Hong Kong, or Iran, everyone thinks that they are better than the next guy.
There were predictable characters, and while I enjoyed the first couple of books in this saga, I have to say that I didn't enjoy the books which were set in the twentieth century.
The more I read of Clavell, I more I hate his writings.
Growing up, my father had a boxed set of James Clavell paperbacks on the shelf, consisting of Shogun, Tai-Pan, Noble House, and King Rat. Though I'd often read the books my father had after he had finished reading them (heavy on the Follett, Ludlum, Higgins, and Forsythe) I don’t remember giving the Clavell’s much thought or even picking them up, maybe just because they were so .
King Rat was something of a diversion, taking place in a World War II prisoner of war camp, but at least one character in that one turns up later in Noble House.After that, I'd run out of Clavell’s to read, until the day I walked into the bookstore and saw his new book, Whirlwind, on the shelf.
The ending was too long, but this was a fascinating book -- well worth the time it took to read it.
The extensive cast of characters were well-drawn and individualized, the discussion of events in Iran in 1979 when Ayatollah Khomeini took power illuminating.
One of Clavell's best books by far.
Like the other books, this one deals with the ideological and cultural clash between East and West as the characters try to negotiate life abroad during a revolution and attempt to get the company's helicopters out of Iran without a significant financial loss.
read Shogun or King Rat first.A major bit of enjoyment I derive from these novels is the historical/cultural learning I can glean from the setting.
I can't help but think about the luck I had, being born in a safe place, with chances to live and learn and grow, while others were being born into a powderkeg that finally ignited.This line of thought spurred me to another thought I've had many times, one which I felt was conveyed quite well in the novel; the concept of 'heroes' and 'villains,' and 'good' and 'evil' are very mutable.
As with the other novels in the Asian Saga, Clavell definitely has a tv writer's flare for drama and character development, which makes for an engaging story. I do wish I knew more about the Iranian revolution, though, because I found it a bit confusing and hard to follow who was on what side (though possibly that's just faithfully recording what it was like to be on the ground at that time).This book and  Shogun  seem like the oddballs in the series; the others all deal a lot more directly with
At this point the Struan family members were a bit hard to keep track of, I'm not totally sure where Ross fits into the whole picture ((view spoiler)[and his story ended quite abruptly, which I suppose is often true in life as well (hide spoiler)]).I also thought it was very interesting to see another glimpse at the post-war hatred of Japanese people.
So many years removed, that attitude is not even remotely present even in the survivors of World War II, but Clavell himself survived Changi and that sort of bitterness doesn't go away overnight.Definitely worth reading.
As with his other books Clavell created an adventure story out of actual historical events, in this case the fall of the Shah and the rise of the Islamic Revolution.
Though Clavell often had a habit of replacing actual hitorical people with fictional characters of his own creation who then went through the same events, in this novel he leaves most historical names in place.
In good Clavell style most do, some don't, and the reader is left until almost the end to find out who.This is one of Clavell's more action-rich books.
It's over.It was probably my longest read ever, and not only because of the book's length, as I read a few books with similar length, but it was a difficult read as well.In order to understand better what I read, I had to come back from 23% mark, and start reading it again.The story itself was pretty good, but what made it difficult for me to read, is the multiple scattered characters, with multiple scattered and confusing story lines.
I think that this book is very good, it's just very hard to read, and maybe there is a need to read it again (and maybe again afterwards) to understand it fully, and enjoy it more.
But of course, that doesn't mean that there's anything wrong with the book.
But the fact that it is by far the longest book I've ever finished even though it failed my "capture something of an interest at a hundred pages in"-rule does mean something.
I put two stars, since I did finish it and, even though this one was far too unengaging to be this long and this crowded and (at times) this slow and boring, Clavell is a good writer.
Second time in original language, which I found was an improvement, but my original review still stands true for me...
Clavell was about 70 when he wrote this.
The story is fragmented, with different characters in different locations involved in each chapter, bound together in a rush (with some sticky tape) at the end.
Usually Clavell is pretty good at wrapping things up and leaving you with a strong feel-good factor.
The web of this story is so loosely spun that even master Clavell cannot weave his magic this time around.
Avoid this one, and remember - no cherish - the sweetness of Clavell at his finest with Noble House.
The story of several British and American expatriots living in Iran in 1979, at the time of the return of the Ayatollah. Fascinating insights into the Iranian mindset. Suspensful storyline. 25 yrs later I still reflect on this book.
This book seemed quite racist to me. I felt dirty reading it.
The author paints a magical story entwined in Iran, that is truly captivating like you lived through it.
