https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/239513.Principles_of_Biochemistry
بین همهی رمانهایی که خوندم، فقط یه کتاب علمی هست که خوب خوندمش و خوندنش اصلاً مثل خوندن کتابای درسی غمانگیز و طاقتفرسا نبود. شاید واسه اینکه نام خانوادگی مولف اصلی کتاب، آلبرت لنینجر، خیلی شبیه سلینجر بوده. هر چی که هست این تنها کتاب درسیِ موجود بین کتابامه.
بین همه‌ی رمان‌هایی که خوندم، فقط یه کتاب علمی هست که خوب خوندمش و خوندنش اصلاً مثل خوندن کتابای درسی غم‌انگیز و طاقت‌فرسا نبود. شاید واسه این‌که نام خانوادگی مولف اصلی کتاب، آلبرت لنینجر، خیلی شبیه سلینجر بوده. هر چی که هست این تنها کتاب درسیِ موجود بین کتابامه.
This book finally ties together the threads of courses in all the major biological sub-disciplines (biology, genetics, cell biology, microbiology), and places them firmly in the context of the chemistry of life. Would be a good read in conjunction with an introductory text on physiology.
I obviously did not read this book cover to cover, but the sections that I did read were fairly easy to understand, but also managed to go into a fair amount of detail.
ইয়ে আরেকটা হরর বই :'( লাইফে কোন বই নিয়ে যদি আতংকে ভুগি তাহলে এইটা পরথমে থাকবে !!! আললাহর অনেক রহমত এই ইয়ারে এই বইটারে পড়তে হচছে একটার পর একটা ভয়াবহ সব রিএকশন, জটিল সব পাথওয়ে না যায় পড়া না যায় মনে রাখা!
ইয়ে আরেকটা হরর বই :'( লাইফে কোন বই নিয়ে যদি আতংকে ভুগি তাহলে এইটা প্রথমে থাকবে !!! আল্লাহর অনেক রহমত এই ইয়ারে এই বইটারে পড়তে হচ্ছে একটার পর একটা ভয়াবহ সব রিএকশন, জটিল সব পাথওয়ে না যায় পড়া না যায় মনে রাখা!
Bible for Biochemistry, easy enough to understand :)
I had the privilege of being taught by both of the authors. They are amazing teachers, and this book reflects the clarity of their in-class teaching as well as the depth of their knowledge.I also have a huge crush on one Mr. David L. Nelson.
One of the best textbooks I've ever had the pleasure of reading. Hands down. I still use it today, and I'm not even in school.
I cann't talk about Lehninger ..
He is the supervisor of my supervisors in Egypt ..
you can image :)Dr Hussein Ghaleb one of the most important biochemistry professors in Egypt ..
He presented Egypt as a member of Unisco in 60's in a very creative project that preserve a large amount of sugar to Cuba ..
He started there an idea that can summarized to " formation of a single cell protein from Molasses "Dr/ Ghalib was Lehninger's student in Germany in 50's i think ..The conversation can take us the talk about Dr / ghalib ..He was born at Aswan at 1924 ..
Dr/Ghalib has a picture with Lehninger ..
wooah such relief.. .. feelings undescribable, now that I've left that behind And what can I say, the last Chapter, especially the last few pages was incredible such lucidity no drawbacks, or forced assumptions..& most importantly,there was a continious feedback loop, to previous parts, that having 'digested' them, I could bring back to memory, with only a hint.. [ still I need to research, some stuff I just read a little bit further]
It was a good biochemistry book, even though sometimes I found it a bit overloaded. All in all, it was good and the concepts were explained really well.Now I have to do the exam.
Sin duda, el libro que más consulté mientras estudiaba la asignatura de Bioquímica. Todo lo que no comprendía en las clases lo encontraba al detalle entre sus páginas. Buenas explicaciones a un nivel profundo acompañado de imágenes muy claras. Un clásico que se merece su renombre.
A strong background in organic chemistry is useful so that you may firmly understand the reaction pathways and molecular interactions.
The mechanisms are not advanced, but having a solid understanding of electrophilicity, nucleophilicity, electron density, resonance, sterics, hydrogen bonding, van Der Waals interactions, and other fundamentals from organic chemistry will help you to grasp the material more quickly.
If you are taking biochemistry: read the book.
It is very dense with both "need to know" content and details for deeper understanding.
I found the metabolism chapters (glycolysis, fatty acid oxidation/synthesis, citric acid cycle) to be presented well.
I didn't actually read the whole book, but most of it, at least around 900 pages.
To be honest, I hated having to read this book, because it was for University, and I'll probably will have to read some of it again for finals in July and I will hate even more.
Aside from that, this is a really good book!
I mean, I didn't like reading it because who likes studying?
I'm gonna name this book Lehny because he has been my friend for a whole semester and even though I hate him, I love him.
Although I'm required to read this book, it is very neat how the body works. I am fascinated by how well God has created all of us, and how perfectly we seem to function with ease. It is also neat to understand what happens when the systems are not properly functioning and how it all breaks down. If anyone is interested in learning more about how proteins, carbs, fats and nucleic acids work in the body, pick this book up and start reading.
Perfect book for undergraduate studies. Good language and detailed content. Most of people think "Biochemistry by Stryer" is better over lehninger but according to me lehninger is the best. It has extra details over Stryer. Language is quite easier in stryer but overall best book for studying fundamentals of biochemistry.
I didn't read all of it, just the parts necessary for my class. Its pretty good with lots of enlightening explanations, illustrations, useful asides, and descriptions of diseases related to defects in the various topics under discussion. Enjoyable.
This book has everything - EVERYTHING - you'll ever need to know about biochem. This is so complete, our lectures were almost completely lifted from it. On the downside, your teacher might be insane and want you to memorize it for the exam.
life-long official textbook of Biochemistry, I basically rate it as a central dogma for those who're enrolled within medicine, it covers everything in the world of biochemistry that makes you able to start your medical research according what you have learnt from it.
This book is the most important book for learner who are finding the right book to read to increase their knowledge and ability their field. For me, I really want to read this book to find out whatever related to Biochemistry. I hope I could... thank.
I'm done with this til (probably) next semester. It's getting marked as read to clear out my shelf a bit. Again.
Quite good as biochem books go, but not the most readable book ever written.
Manages to make an overall complicated subject a much easier pill to swallow. Filled with wonderful diagrams and bundles of information; a true lifesaver.
It's a text book.
Um clássico! Imortal. Não há como estudar bioquímica sem passar por suas páginas..
To be really honest...this is the best textbook I ever read. It also has one of the nicest covers. I only read the first half, since that is all my class covered, but I would have totally read the second half if I had time and didn't have to return it. It made biochemistry so easy to understand, even while going into a lot of details.
Great work - what a revelation!
An excellent and clear introduction to biochemistry, though it contains too many dalliances into clinical significance for my tastes
the best book to learn for biochemistry. I like how the concepts are treated and also the explanations regarding complex processes and biomolecules.
good book
A life saver for competitive exams
