https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30095.Gloriana
The writing is different from Moorcock's other work, more like Mervyn Peake, whom the book is dedicated to.
It's easy to see Peake's influence on Moorcock on this one, both in the writing and the labyrinthine halls of Gloriana's palace.
Gloriana is a well-written character, as are Una, Wheldrake, Quire, Montfallon, and the rest.
As near as I can tell, those are the only references to the Eternal Champion saga.I'd recommend this to Moorcock fans with an open mind, as well as Mervyn Peake fans, fans of decadent fantasy, and also readers who like their fantasy to have a political bend.
He is a well-spoken and thoughtful critic of the complete lack of romance in either of these would-be romances, but the love in Gloriana's court is anything but courtly.There is a delightful Quentin Crisp quote about how innovation is not 'seeing your neighbor to the left has a straight walk and your neighbor to the right a curved and thence making your own diagonal', suffice it to say that contrariness is not the mother of invention.Moorcock's Elric was, in many ways, written to be contrary; to be the antithesis of the fantasy that came before.
However, Moorcock is not being contrary in Gloriana, which in most regards, reads like an abridged Elizabethan take on Peake's Gormenghast books (which, incidentally, are the origin of Crisp's quotation, by way of his introduction).Gloriana is considered by highfalutin Moorcock fans to be perhaps his most remarkable and original work.
This alternate history fantasy is heavily laced with allegory, satire, irony and cynicism; it’s elaborately worded and woven into a tapestry of decadence, ennui, treachery and corruption, but also idealism, philosophy, duty and human misery."Gloriana told the story of a woman who personified the State in public but was full of pain, frustration and confusion in private."Once I fell into the rhythm of the narrative and started to read between the lines, this battle between high morality and low realism, virtue and vice, became very engaging indeed.
Michael Moorcock want to comment on British imperialism so he writes a Faerie Queene parody/Peake pastiche where the Queen can't get off so she isn't a Real Woman but then she gets raped and finally has an orgasm. Someone publishes this book.Then Andrea Dworkin yells at Michael Moorcock because apparently it takes Andrea Dworkin to flag this rape thing as a bad idea and then Michael Moorcock writes an alternate ending with less rape that is somehow worse than the original.He also includes a note that you shouldn't rape people, everybody, sorry if that was unclear.
Another flamboyant cast of decadents from Moorcock. A tribute to Peake’s Titus Groan and tribute/critique of Spenser’s Faerie Queene, this is more of reworking of assumptions and symbols that the myth of the British Empire rests on then an alternative history(though it’s a good one). A fantasy construct, not hinging on an adventure or a quest, filled with madness, political intrigue, travelers from other realms, automatons. Doctor Dee, court rituals, court poetry, and lots of sex. Captain Arcturus Quire is a combination of Steerpike and Iago who guides the plot to its unsettling and ironic(and somewhat controversial) conclusion.
The focus is on the fictional queen "Gloriana" (who seemed to me some kind of cross between Elizabeth the 1st and Victoria) and the rather large cast of characters who spend much of their time in and around the labyrinthine palace, from the lordly to the lowly, the lords, ladies, ambassadors, spies, soldiers, poets, rogues and the mysterious characters who roam the lost corridors and rooms in the forgotten depths of the palace.Although the author can't help but weave into the story mention of the multi-verse and hints of characters that one might have read else where from his extensive canon, once the new facts of the situation are accepted, little suspension of disbelief is required.
Gradually the facade crumbles and the perfect vision of Albion and the Queen are revealed for the myth that they are.Stylistically, this is quite different from anything else I've read by Moorcock and it proves his versitility as a writer.
My AP lit teacher senior year gave those of us who survived four years of "enriched" English a gift.
Only one of us would remain and qualify to see her again senior year.As a gift for making it through, she gave us each a book she felt best represented us.
W.T.F If a teacher gave my underage child a book like this, I'd probably have words with said teacher.Regardless, I read the book and it was the first time I connected Science Fiction with SM/erotica.
(view spoiler)[I also have her to thank for my interest in bestiality which shows up in this book.
The way the plot revolves around the fact that Gloriana can't have an orgasm just baffled me: it made it sound like that was the most important thing in life, which...
He doesn't go for any false archaisms, though the style isn't contemporary, and while he piles on the adjectives and so on, I do feel that's an intentional embarrassment of riches, like the court itself.I can understand why people dislike this book, or never finish it, but I'm glad I did.
Tiny episodes are scorchingly erotic, like Queen Gloriana's offhand caressing of Lady Mary, or Captain Quire's hypnotic conquest of pouty-lipped boy Phil Starling.But the major plot of the book -- Quire ruins Gloriana, then saves her, then seduces her -- just doesn't ring true.
Moreover, Moorcock never succeeds in establishing Quire as a credible tough guy -- all the rowdies in the wrong part of town are supposedly in awe of this guy, but then he shows up to the big infernal jamboree with a teenage boy as his heavy date!
except for the ones with Quire!The maddening thing is that after you've read this book you keep thinking about all the other, better characters.
A book that shows that Moorcock can really write and think.
This Gothic Elizabethan fantasy shows an alternate world (in which Moorcock specialises) which clearly, consciously or not in his successors' cases, is part of the same fantasy complexes of Philip Pullman, Neil Gaiman and the American Tim Powers.
Hidden within the folds of the story (and Moorcock folds his stories in time and space like the folds of a rose) are some serious ruminations on power and myth, a theme running through so many of his works.
Alan Moore does similar things in his graphic work and there is a school here of occult trickster nationalism exploiting the global market in a world of paradox and mirrors.
An interesting setting - within the walls of the palace - was introduced, but it didn't really go anywhere.Finally, almost two-thirds of the way through, plots started to thicken, irrelevant characters started to show up, THINGS HAPPENED.So the book went from a total loss to a 'meh'.
The idea of a subterranean between the walls second city is awesome, but is merely used as a plot device, barely explored.
But again, mere plot devices that enter and exit as needed with little exposition.Ultimately I found myself interested in the world that wasn't addressed by this book.
in a far more lush and gothic olde england, a decidedly NOT virgin queen rules over a golden age of expansion, exploration, and harmony.
she keeps a seraglio of willing creatures of every sort because she loves them too much to ever turn anyone out of her household.
court intrigues abound and formal costumed ceremonies usher in every season.it's a lush, thick, dense sort of gothic sort of stuff here.
it's a strange lovely book, but (view spoiler)[the fully insanely over-the-top blood & indifferent rape ending just completely lost me (hide spoiler)].
This has what we could call *highly problematic* sexual themes. The conceit is that an alternate fantasy Queen Elizabeth runs a world-spanning and semi-Utopian Empire, and has only one problem -- she can't find sexual satisfaction. Well, it's Mr. Moorcock, and he wrote it in the 70s, so what can you do. Worth reading, but incoherent, and with a pretty appalling ending, even given the conceit.

2.5 stars review to come :)
‘Gloriana’ is Michael Moorcock’s tribute to the incomparable Mervyn Peake.
The young Moorcock was a great admirer of Peake’s work when it was little known, became a friend in his tragic last illness and assisted in the publication of ‘Titus Alone’.
Given Moorcock’s subsequent close association with Andrea Dworkin, this must have become deeply embarrassing for him, and I believe that later editions do some serious back-pedalling.
Whether this improves the book, I do not know.There is much to enjoy in ‘Gloriana’.
Indeed, it is interesting to contemplate how it might have been if Moorcock had written the book later in his career...
What turns out to be a comical almost farcical theme (a Queen, modelling on the Virgin Queen, struggling for "release") turns out to be deftly spun and extraordinarily written novel, marking it as one of Fantasy's most searing triumphs.
I have tried reading this blasted book three times. I know it's me. Moorcock does a wonderful job of creating an alternate England. But, for me, something is missing. I'm not sure. Maybe its the whole take on Elizabeth. I don't know. Moorcock does write an excellent Dr. Dee, however.
Made the mistake of persevering with this. Balderdash, and boring to boot.
So while it has all the ingredients of a good fantasy intrigue, with strong characters in interesting relationships with responsibility and principle and politics, thematic unity, and a compelling adventure subplot in the hidden society within the walls, it just ends up feeling blunted and confused.The plot takes an unusual and ultimately ineffective structure.
The guilty repression of history and responsibility are bluntly metaphorized by both the walls and the seraglio and the way they're kind of submerged in the text, constantly mentioned by never addressed, but on top of the rest it feels like the book is robbed of any potentially interesting flavor.
My review is up on the New York Journal of Books website. Side note- I read the re-released hard copy of Gloriana: Or The Unfulfilled Queen. This magnificent story is on my "forever favorite" list of books. Michael Moorcock is brilliant!
The novel is about how he affects Gloriana, and how his intrigues undermine the Golden Age which seems more and more a superficial cloak over the vicious terror of the previous reign.The two very obvious literary influences on Gloriana are Spenser's The Faerie Queene and other Elizabethan allegorical poetry; and Peake's Titus Groan and Gormenghast.
These connections are more superficial than usual, and Gloriana is much freer than earlier novels from Moorcock's ideas about the Eternal Champion.
Albion has emerged from tyranny and into a Golden Age, brought about by its perfect queen, the titular Gloriana.
As with most empires, there's corruption behind the scenes, however: the queen's advisor, Montfalcon, breaks quite a few eggs making the omelets necessary to keep Albion running while protecting her from his scheming.
A careless mistake leads to hurt feelings and a growing sense of enmity that threatens to topple the whole kingdom.The novel is tightly-plotted and evocative.
Even more than the plot, the richly described world is the main draw for this book, however.
Moorcock crafts a world that I enjoyed visiting immensely.

Moorcock's writing oscillates between excellence and bullshit so dramatically and with such frequency that it's dizzying. Nowhere is this better exemplified then with this book, which was promised as courtly intrigue that takes place in Spencer's Fairy Queene. There are few things that could mar such an outstanding premise. One of those things is a persistent misogyny built into the very foundation of the plot. Moorcock is a well poisoner. No one can ever write an erotic romp through a Shakespearean fantasy setting ever again. The ur-text of such a tantalizing genre is inescapably rape apologia.

The faerie queen meets Gormenghast by way of Michael Moorcock. There was no way I wasn't going to enjoy this book, the decay of this very romantic sort of utopia makes for truly compelling reading. That said the well discussed final scene did threaten to spoil the entire enterprise for me, it is by no means an exploitative scene (in my opinion) but I do think Moorcock hugely overreached into some deeply squicky territory.
I keep trying to find a book that I love as much as Gormenghast... To no avail. In particular with this one; despite it being a 'homage' to Mervyn Peake it comes across more as obnoxious, sexist drivel. I think I'll just re-read Gormenghast.
This is, without question, the best pornographic deconstruction of The Faerie Queene I've ever read.
A couple of suitors are in the frame and Gloriana seeks not to offend them but to hold them off in a combination of statehood, diplomacy and espionage.Whilst the court of Albion is interesting and the world is vivid and recognisable, one problem I have with the book is that nothing really happens for the first half of the book.
The first is Mervyn Peake's Gormeghast series and the second is Edmund Spenser's The Faerie Queene.I've read and loved (well, at least the first two) Gormenghast books.
Gloriana is raped by Quire and at last achieves sexual satisfaction.
