https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14595.Please_Kill_Me
Man, Lou Reed is such a dick.
There were these big sliding glass doors where of course the methhead psychos lurking in the dark could watch me mopping, all lit up, but I couldn't see out, and most nights I'd be really on edge and ready to run for the parole guys' room if any of the scary noises I heard outside turned out to be some twisted someone smashing through the glass and grabbing my spleen as an ingredient to use in his basement meth lab.Anyway, that one night I didn't have time to worry about getting chopped into pieces by violent, spun-out hicks, because I was too busy drinking Vanilla Coke after Vanilla Coke in the office, not mopping the place and absorbing (naturally) this very absorbing oral history of the seminal New York City punk scene.
No, Lou Reed is a scat-munching douche.* Patti Smith was a truly creepy girl with a tenuous grip on reality, who stalked the stars of the underground scene until they invited her in.
I can't BELIEVE that more of them did not die...* Almost everyone in the NY punk scene turned tricks at one time or another to make ends meet.* Musicians are assholes, or so goes the refrain from the label A&R guy that signed a lot of these bands.* Of course, so are label execs.* Despite being just as fucked up, selfish, and self-absorbed as everyone else in the book Iggy Pop is the only guy that comes out looking good.
I can't claim to not like oral histories having only previously read the "People's Oral History" by Zinn which is a blood orange compared to Wayne Kramers' red delicious.
That being said, I found this book far too gossipy and "sceney" making me think that cliques in music existed long before the internet came and quantified it for the world to see/read.
A few people OD'ed, and the Sex Pistols came along and ruined the fun for everyone.
This book, first and foremost should be about the history of NEW YORK punk.
It certainly doesn't seem that way.
Their debut album, released when punk was overlapping disco, fell on deaf dimwit ears for the most part and for those of us who felt they may just change the world – if not the music biz – the failure of their sales to approximate the accolades or even get on the radio once in a while is still a stake through the heart of the 20-year-old that beats within my chest somewhere.Anyone who’s been following the plot knows things don’t end well here, the entire New York scene going down in flames faster than The Clash after releasing “Sandinista!” but it’s like rubber necking a multi-car pileup on I-75 North the Friday before Labor Day. It’s impossible to look away.
4.5 stars just not a 5 because I don't think a reread will affect me the same way Little did I realize that the punk movement started as early as 1968 with the Velvet Underground and amphetamine usage.
The focus is on American punk, which, unbeknownst to me, is where the movement began, about fifteen years before England.
There is a similar book on England's movement, and it is on my to-read list if anyone is interested.
I am ashamed to say that I've had to create a list of bands with whom I'm not familiar so I can Spotify the music.
It's probably better if you're familiar with the music, but that's not a prerequisite.
I think she elevated rock & roll to literature.
Morrison's wasn't poetry.
It was good rock & roll for thirteen-year-olds.
Or eleven-year-olds .
. There has got to be a reason why women like Nico and Gloria Stavers, the editor of 16 Magazine, fell so deeply in love with him, because he was essentially an abusive man to women.
But it sure wasn't his poetry.
I've got to tell you, it wasn't his poetry.
That was probably it."
Things I learned from this book...-Everyone involved in the early American punk scene was one big incestuous relationship.
-Even completely drugged out of his mind, I still love Iggy.
-They consider Jim Morrison to be a forerunner of punk because of his stumbling drunk performances seemed to be a fuck you to the buttoned up squares going to the shows to be "cool".
No matter whether it was the NY or the UK scene who started punk, they created something amazing and in turn influenced so many others to create even more.
They also should make for interesting reading and, for the most part, the book delivered.
I learned:*Nico drank good wine.*Phil Spector drank bad wine.*Nancy Spungen was advised to go to England to clean up and kick her serious drug habit.
(New York being a prodcut of the art scene and England being a product of working class hopelessness.) The LA scene wasn't touched and other East Coast punk bands of great importance, such as Black Flag, didn't get a mention.
when i was a kid and i would whine about not getting new shoes or some stupid shit my mom would sing that old Rolling Stones song, "You can't always get what you want" only she wouldn't sing it she would talk it like it was some ancient wisdom from the lips of Plato inserting pauses to let the complicated cadence of his words sink in, "but if you try some time...you just might find...
you get what you need." It always pissed me off and made me embarrassed that my mom thought she was being cool quoting some stupid ass song by some guy with a drippy face.
Guess what mom...that song was about heroin.bad music often good sometimes great noise made by terrible people.
I've read this book many times before and will often pick it up and reread chunks here and there. It is simply the best book you will ever find on the birth of punk rock. Everyone who was in the scene adds fascinating, fun and often outrageous stories you won't find elsewhere. From musicians, poets, artists, groupies, friends, management.... Legs McNeil & Gillian McCain knew where to go to get the goods. Super informative and so much fun. Very highly recommend!
This is the most extensive book I've ever read on punk culture, from the fashion to the music. It even briefly mentions similar styles, like goth.
Although PLEASE KILL ME features tons of great material from the people who were there at Ground Zero during the Factory and CBGBs scenes, I wound up fucking pissed at this book's contention that punk began with the Velvets and ended with the deaths of Sid Vicious and Johnny Thunders.
No indeedy - the authors assert that punk lived and died with the original CBGBs crowd, and that everything that came afterward was either cheap trashy spectacle or "corporate rock." Bonus irony points: The authors go on several rants about the "integrity" of old-school punk; the book, however, is one long chronicle of stupid kids who live like rock stars on massive amounts of money they essentially scam from their major-label record companies.
Maybe this book, which I loved so much, was a steaming pile of dog shit?So I picked it up, trepidatious, and started randomly.
After careening through many chapters and completely losing myself in the crazy panoply of deranged and contradictory voices, I stopped reading and started from the beginning.
The book is catty and funny, and full of great freaks who are out of their mind, but in a way that makes you want to emulate them; in a way that made me want to throw my desk through the window and go start a band and go shoot dope, but then comes the end of the book, which is extremely sad, and switches gears, as we now follow a large chunk of the endlessly fascinating and destructive people spiral into death.
(which became amusing: what's LESS punk than opting out of a crazy fun party on a friday night to stay in and read a book about punk?)the book is compiled entirely of excerpts from interviews with all the people who were involved in the New York punk scene.
you'll end up knowing all kinds of crap about punk, but mostly having loved the book.
The amount of marketing/repackaging that's gone into this shit has just about reached utter absurdity, accelerated by the internet beyond anything anyone could have dreamed of.
Yeah, I agree, the Pistols and The Clash are overrated, just like all the bands you're eulogising, dickhead.
Besides which, me, I'm a believer in the punk spirit, which can't be confined to one place or time.
Legs, even if you and your buddies did discover it (and personally I'd say Iggy got there before you did), that's all you did.
Yeah, it's been misappropriated, annexed by alien forces, but you gotta live with it, let it evolve.
Let it go, Legs.
I can't count how many times I've read this book, whether it's cover to cover or just skimming through for particularly hilarious/bizarre/noteworthy parts.
I love all of the 70s New York bands and artists that get covered in this book, so this definitely fulfills the role of the historical retrospective and sated all of the curiosity I had about the era.
Also, a funny thing I started to realize as I read this book is that I would have fucking hated most if not all of the people whose records I worship.
Goodreads defines the five-star rating as "It was amazing." I've given books five-star ratings before, then asked myself, "Was it amazing?", and then had to admit to myself that the answer was "no" and changed my rating accordingly. In the case of Please Kill Me I don't even have to think about it. It was amazing. I've read it three times and I'm sure before long I'll probably make it four. Greatest rock 'n' roll book ever and one of the greatest oral histories ever.
i learned not to leave a member of the dead boys alone with a guinea pig.
"Punk" magazine was truly a groundbreaker, giving vital press to bands who would have otherwise gotten precious little exposure in the mainstream rock fanzines."Please Kill Me" covers New York punk from its birth in the mid-60s at Andy Warhol's Factory all the way to its eventual death in the late 70s, as corporate America once again begins to catch the wave and numerous members of the original first wave of punk begin to burn out from the excessive and dangerous lifestyles that they embraced.
Some favorites include: the Warhol Superstars insisting that Jim Morrison copped the leather pant look from them and that David Bowie was nothing but a wierd English hippie in a dress before they made him over; Iggy Pop inciting a riot with a bunch of bikers in Detroit while wearing a tutu and a G-string; Patti Smith doing her 'old man's' [Robert Maplethorpe's] laundry; Debbie Harry giving away large bags of cocaine to friends because people just kept bringing it to her; the Sex Pistols as trend-whoring kids who were in love with the Clash; Joey Ramone refusing to play songs about drugs; and generally Everyone who was Anyone behaving like 12 year old girls.Basically, Punk in New York in the 70s was--and remains--the most self-aggrandizing and self-promoted subculture ever.
At times I can't help but think that Legs McNeil gives himself a little too much credit in terms of defining what came to be known as "punk" or "punk rock." However, one thing you could never take away from Legs is this amazing book.
Out of all the same old rehashed books on the history of rock music, "Please Kill Me" is not only refreshing, but it may be the definitive source on the underground rock and roll culture from the '60s onward.
It is an inside look into the New York punk scene during the late seventies. It's foul so don't read it!
Or maybe junk would be a more appropriate metaphor.Anyway I hope you don't have any illusions that Lou Reed or Johnny Thunders were 'cool guys'.
Though the further the story gets from punk's origins, the harder the laughs are to come by.
A handful of these people actually come off as very thoughtful and intelligent (Patti Smith, Iggy), but they're all eventually exposed for dumping anyone and everyone that fails to serve the almighty purpose of shining their own star.
The 'narrative oral history' technique ensures that the stories and impressions that make up the history of punk come from the people who lived it.
It started in the suburbs or Detroit and New York in the 60's.
Bands like The Velvet Underground, The Stooges and The MC5 fired up a generation that included The New York Dolls and The Ramones.
The fact that the movement was named Punk long before the Sex Pistols and the Clash came on the scene should give punk fans a decent history lesson.Nevertheless, this is an oral history so the history is told through quotes from such luminaries as Lou Reed, Iggy Pop, David Johannsen, Debbie Harry, Wayne County and Joey Ramone.
Ron Asheton's story of Iggy Pop and Nico's relationship is especially hilarious.
The explicit redundancy of the punk scene is offensive. While some of the stories are interesting and the first hand account of it all is better than most, it's just boring. Listening to how f'd up people get has become tiresome. It isn't awesome anymore.That said, some of the stories are pretty ok. If you're a disillusioned person looking for something to hang on to look no further. Your rebellious ways are all documented and ... shockingly enough ... they happened more than 30 years ago. It's just a phase, you'll grow out of it.The pictures are cool.
There is an important lesson to be learned from this tome, and that lesson is that no matter how cool your punk-rock idols may be, most of them would make terrible roommates.Everything here is either a first-hand account from the people who were there or directly quoted from old newspaper and magazine articles. McNeil did the same thing in "The Other Hollywood," and it was a little frustrating in that book, but here, it's like listening to a bunch of your drunk, trouble-making uncles tell you stories your mom probably didn't want you to hear.
I gave this book three stars once. Was I high or something?Essential reading. You can smell the puke and the body odor. Your punk icons take it in the chin - Lou Reed is universally praised, yet no one hesitated to call him out for the asshole he really was. You'll need to be tested for Hep C after you're done reading this magnificent and bruising tome.
Maybe she's better now, but holy fuck, boys, she was an awful fucking person who cared about nothing but her 'art' and no one but her 'self.'Also, I kind of like Danny Fields, regardless.
Dee Dee Ramone : Then one day, it was a Friday, it was a payday, and we both bought a guitar each and decided to start a band. He bought a Mosrite and I bought a Danelectro. Joey Ramone : When Dee Dee would start singing, he would stop playing the guitar, because he couldn't sing and play at the same time.
