https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/238917.In_the_Heart_of_the_Country

There are two types of novels by J. M. Coetzee: the historical & the metaphysical.The metaphysical ones include Summertime, Foe... The best of these is Elizabeth Costello. Historical: Life and Times of Michael K, Waiting for the Barbarians, Slow Man, Disgrace...And the best of these is THIS novel.His unending obsession with the insufficiency/stupidity of words and language as well as the story's reliance on its components of beginning/middle/end finally strikes the reader as meaningful and ever-appropriate. Sharing many themes with his most successful work, Disgrace, this one absolutely chills the blood with its tense moments of violence, rape & murder.
She tells multiple separate and conflicting stories over the course of the book, with no textual clue to the reader that they are not all part of one seamless narrative.The imagery is stark and isolating as Magda and the handful of other characters scratch out a living in the scorpion and jackal-haunted boonies, but what's really stark and isolating is the relationship between the white farmer and daughter and the black servants, initially friendly and benevolent on the surface, but their every interaction is fraught with the weight of colonialism.
It is indeed a bleak and powerful tale.That said, this is a book for readers who like literary prose, meaning sentences and paragraphs worked and reworked to artistic effect rather than to tell a story.
Ci descrive il caldo sole del Sudafrica che fa spaccare le pietre e i mille animali, insetti per lo più, che popolano il suo mondo.
Un mondo, poi, interiore, visto attraverso le parole e i ricordi, le visioni della narratrice che, partita come poetessa, si ritrova a cadere nel baratro delle allucinazioni.
Non si sa mai quale sarà il suo prossimo passo, perché attraverso le sue parole non si riesce a capire come si muoverà nella storia.
Una donna che ha vissuto sola, nella sua mente e nel corpo, per la maggior parte della vita.
So, instead of speaking to her father and their family's servants, she just keeps her thoughts to herself.When her father seduces Anna the wife of their farmhand Hendrik, Magda resents it and the narration becomes more confusing as if it mirrors her mind.
Magda is definitely an unreliable narrator and you just can help marvel on how Coetzee, this being just his second novel, was able to second guess the mind of an intelligent yet a bit crazy woman.
Metaphor is obvious: Magda is the colonized African country and his father represents the native people who embraced the colonizers.
Well, that was just the feel-good read of the year, wasn't it?Jesus.I don't often read books like this, and, even now, I can't even begin to describe what that category actually is.
However, I have to admit that I was generally intrigued by Magda.The narrative was very first-person, given that there wasn't much dialogue, and I find that that style usually ends up sounding like a long, long half-assed diary entry.
That dude can seriously spin some words.I don't know how well-developed I'd consider the character of Magda, as her past doesn't often make an appearance (though I really liked the end when she asks her dead father if he remembers her favorite moments on the farm).
Como Magda diz: “Só enterrando os nossos segredos dentro de nós é que os conseguimos guardar(…)invento tudo para que me inventem”.Nós, leitores, não temos acesso a tais dimensões, sendo os segredos lidos possivelmente inventados que, por sua vez, inventam o romance de uma personagem que tem sempre algo a desvendar.
How can you commet on Coetzee? Everything he wries is extraordinary. This is no exception. Brutal, hits you in the guts with some of the most amazing images created in the modern novel, i'd say. Check out the scene when the aeroplane flies over head. Until that moment, I thought the book was set in the C19th. And of course, that was Coetzee's point. If you want to know about South Africa, read this book.
Coetzee es una garantía.
"En medio de ninguna parte", como se ha traducido en España su novela "In the Heart of the Country", fue su segunda obra publicada, pero en ella ya se percibe esa habilidad especial de Coetzee para penetrar en los recovecos más profundos e ignotos del alma humana.
Es la lucha básica de todo ser humano, una lucha que las circunstancias cercenan las más de las veces.
El gran Coetzee pone el dedo en la llaga una vez más.
uma narrativa árida e escura que começa com muita pujança e que vai perdendo fluidez com o avolumar do texto. a meio do livro já o tédio tinha tomado conta de mim. 2,5.
Es bastante común que en ellas, en un momento dado, se exija del lector un gran esfuerzo: que recorra un trecho particularmente árido dónde la acción queda inhibida dentro un ambiente introvertido y decadente.
Después de finalizar con la última línea en ningún momento he encontrado nada que valga la pena recordar o que me haya sorprendido.Y es que en buena parte del texto, Coetzee renuncia a la acción, a construir una trama y a los diálogos.
No percibí el estar inmerso en los fondos de la locura, pues ningún momento suena verosímil, tan sólo el estar presenciando los esfuerzos de un escritor por resultar muy literario.
Op zich is het concept van dit boek uitstekend: een vrouw (eenzaam, met duidelijke nood aan een man of vrouw) vertelt over hoe ze samenleeft met haar vader en bedienden, afgezonderd op een landgoed in Zuid-Afrika.
Maar omdat er overduidelijk een hoek af is, is de monoloog die ze afsteekt weinig betrouwbaar: als lezer weet je nooit wat echt is en wat niet.
Je kan dit boek honderd keer opnieuw lezen, en honderd keer iets anders geloven.Helaas wordt dit (sowieso al moeilijk) concept gecombineerd met een zéér literaire schrijfstijl.
Ik ben zeker niet vies van wat literaire mooischrijverij, maar hier is het too much: te hoogdravend, monoloog na monoloog waarbij alle mogelijke natuurelementen aangehaald worden, te veel "kijk-eens-wat-ik-kan"-schrijverij.
The second, and to me more interesting one, told the narrative of Jacobus Coetzee, and his interactions and conflicts with Namaqua tribe in eighteenth century South Africa.
Coetzee’s second novel, In the Heart of the Country, published in 1976, continues this preoccupation.
The novel, a solipsistic narrative, probes the depths of Magda’s unravelling psychology with insight, depth, and a language of rich poetry.
This is a novel in which every word seems carefully considered and placed.
For a second novel this is very good indeed, and further proof, is it were needed, that J.M. Coetzee was one of the most interesting novelist in the western world.

I read this book in one single sitting. It took me 5 hours, bloodshot eyes and a splitting headache, and I'd do it all over again just to experience the emotional torpedo it is. Coetzee's work is bedazzling. His command of language - razor sharp, Lycra tight; the sheer muscle force of his imagery, and the tight, vide-like grip he holds over every word on a page is the stuff of masters. This book is startling.
Coetzee makes her out to be such a timid little child but I feel like these questions are open for interpretation with each character.The whole book was just, ugly.
He succeeds in making the reader WANT to know about such ugly people in such an ugly place where there is no hope, only blood, fire, flies and probably some really shitty coffee.All in all I gave it a 3, I feel like Coetzee almost wants you to hate the book because he wants you to hate South Africa in that setting and all of the shit that happens there.
Một trong những nguyên tắc cơ bản của trang goodreads nằm ở phần chấm điểm những cuốn sách bạn đã đọc, để những người khác có thể dựa vào ý kiến của số đông, hoặc đọc chi tiết các reviews mà lựa chọn ra những tác phẩm được đánh giá cao.
Nhưng có những cuốn sách thậm chí rất lâu sau khi đọc xong, bạn vẫn không muốn, hay đúng hơn là không dám chấm điểm cho nó, vì cảm thấy bản thân hành động chấm điểm cho tác phẩm này cũng đã là một việc làm giảm đi giá trị khó diễn tả bằng lời của nó.
Because it's all couched in the first person — in the (extreme, vibrant, crackling) voice of a character who is deeply troubled, mentally unstable.
Because it is so extreme.Subtlety is harder.
And what I *really* admire (and what Coetzee gives us, incidentally, in a novel like Disgrace) is literature that illuminates — and I really mean *illuminates*: literature that sets a halo around the stuff of everyday humanity.
He is very convincing indeed.Which means that this is an horrific novel — in its bleakness, its darkness.
I randomly picked this book off of '1001 Books You Must Read Before You Die' in an effort to broaden my horizons and get away from the best seller list.
There were about 20 pages towards the end that were interesting because of the dialogue and the interaction of the characters, but most of the book was this chick's crazy thoughts in her head.
My best guess is that she was crazy as a loon and was imagining this stuff in her head.
Anyway, I'm sure someone more intellectual than myself would probably appreciate this novel much more than I did.
Coetzee presents such a sparse style here, really all interiority as far as narrative, giving the environment, by contrast, more ominous weight.
Of course brutality has often been explored in terms of externalities - the elements, raw landscapes, forces of nature - so it's quite a feat to give so much space to an interior monologue, especially through the muddied voice of fantasy, in exploring malice and cruelty.
Coetzee's great skill here and in much of his work is that he goes beyond the unreliable narrator and makes the text itself problematic (something he gets into more deeply in Foe).
Extremely dark book!
Coetzee is diving really deep in human soul and his work is totally characterized by it's innerness.
Also he underlines the relationship of master and slave, white and black people, man and woman.
The only sure is through it you can easily understand that this man has more to offer us literally and you should read him again.
Overall I liked a lot this book, it's the second one I have read by Coetzee after "Disgrace" which was in my opinion one level higher than this.
(Actual rating 3.5 stars, means something more than a just good read).
Esta novela en español se llama En medio de ninguna parte.
Es justo en medio de ninguna parte donde nace la protagonista, donde vive, donde siente.El texto nos conduce por el caos de la soledad, de la tragedia que hace de los personajes seres vibrantes y entumecidos por el tedio y el dolor.
Coetzee construye a una narradora mordaz, dulce, nostálgica, poética y acribillante.
Una historia en fragmentos, una vida en pedazos.
Coetzee hace de la ingenuidad un arma y de la vida, una enfermedad.Léase con litros de cafeína en las venas.
Absténgase si se siente demasiado triste.
My favorite of Coetzee's; I think it's his most concentrated effort. He buries into this protaganist deepest thus creating his most genuine, well-rounded character no matter how strange her circumstances. Even though she lives on the very outskirts of "civilization", its outer boundaries, inside of her resides the heart, soul of her country, and so she's not so marginal as she might seem. An effective parable, and I believe Coetzee is most effective in the first-person narrative.
uhmmmmm....3...3.5....4...O Coetzee é brilhante e não existem muitos escritores capazes de escrever um livro destes: convincentemente perdido na mente de uma mulher só, infeliz e desequilibrada. Agora dizer que gostei e que me deu prazer ler, já é uma coisa diferente. Daí as 3 estrelas, essencialmente pelo talento.
Gostei do modo de escrever do autor (numera as ideias!!), a leitura é fluída mas difícil de ler pela descrição dura e crua da solidão da protagonista e suas consequências!
They accuse me...of making myself more violent, more various, more racked with torment than I really am, as though I were reading myself like a book, and found the book dull, and put it aside and began to make myself up instead...It is not in rebellion against true oppression that I have made my history but in reaction against the tedium of serving my father.From the beginning of the novel,(view spoiler)[ where the murder of her father and his new wife is suddenly revealed to be imaginary, when her father walks through the door and back into the narrative; (hide spoiler)] to the very end, the narrator draws the reader in at the same time as ensuring one is never sure if what is happening, is actually happening.
Sinistru. Pentru Coetzee categoriile dostoevskiene sunt tertipuri birocratice, căci ce este crima dacă pedeapsa e cea care o precede? Mă întreb oare ce îl face pe Coetzee să se ia la harță cu Dumnezeu și dacă nu merge prea departe răsturnând închipuirile noastre despre rău, mai ales că un rău explicat încetează să mai fie rău ca atare? Cu siguranță că ar merita o ecranizare în stilul lui Lars von Trier.
Wiadomo również, że spotkanie z jego prozą będzie tyleż wymagające, co i niezapomniane.W samym sercu jakiegoś afrykańskiego kraju, pośrodku kamiennej pustyni (7 mil do najbliższego sąsiada), stoi wielki dom będący częścią podupadłej farmy.
Wściekła na świat, który istnieje gdzieś obok, odległy, obojętny i nieznany (bohaterka nigdy nie opuszczała farmy).
Wściekła na ojca, którego miłość i czułość pragnie uzyskać, a bezskuteczność jej działań rodzi jedynie nienawiść i pcha do zemsty za odrzucenie.Podobno ojciec molestował ją w dzieciństwie, podobno teraz w tym wielkim domu rozgrywa się inny cichy dramat.
Czyżby jej życie było tak mało istotne, że jest nie tylko puste i bolesne, ale również praktycznie bezimienne?"W sercu kraju" to trudna, mocna proza.
these are some of the emotions I experienced, while reading this short book.
The young spinster Magda is the daughter of a sturdy, but brutal farmer in a lost corner of South-Africa.
Magda yearns for love and attention, especially that of her father.
This book is a true writing-experiment in the best of modernist tradition (it reminded me of Becket and of Faulkner).
And his reflections upon the master-slave-relation (Magda and her father versus the black servant Jakob) give this book a real south-african flavour.
In my opinion this is one of the best and most interesting books of the last quarter of the XXth Century.
Na África do Sul, numa fazenda de criação de ovelhas rodeada de nada a toda a volta, um patriarca branco é o senhor absoluto, atemorizando a filha única (a narradora) e os seus criados negros.
Hendrik, um rapaz negro que aparece na quinta vindo de não se sabe onde, irá ter um papel determinante nos eventos futuros, que resultarão na morte do patriarca, na violação da narradora, que acabará sozinha e amargurada, e no esboroar da quinta, no que parece ser uma metáfora do colonialismo europeu em África.
