https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99738.The_Island_Stallion
Like I said earlier, the bar exam made me mentally and emotionally regress to about 2nd-grade level, and I couldn't resist re-reading this installment in the Black Stallion series that I picked up for $2.
I have to say, though, maybe I should stop re-reading these old classics because they're, well, they're just not as good as you remember.
Like, seriously.
Maybe it didn't seem so creepy in 1948 or whenever this was written.
And now that the bar is over I can return to reading grown-up books (although I can't promise I won't return to other childhood faves that I stumble across in used bookstores).
This has been one of my favorite books, and though it's hard to call it, I might just like Flame better than I like the Black.Well, after all, this has a whole lost island, a lost civilization as well.
I love how Steve grows up in the course of this book, becoming a man capable of making the hard decisions.
While this series DOES go a bit crazy / science fiction down the road, it's never stopped me from loving this book.
This story, the story of how Steve finds Flame is beautiful and brilliant all by itself.
It's really not related (not that I recall anyway), but I remember being able to tell the order of the series by these numbers on the spine (F-1, F-2...
From what I remember, there were two men who were really aliens who get involved in the horse racing business.
Maybe I'm making this up, but I remember the aliens very clearly, they had weird eyes, and one of them described horse racing as it had been in the 1880s, even though he couldn't have possibly seen them, it being 1950 or whatever.
Yeah, so horse racing and aliens.
This has its boring parts. The lead-in to finally finding the valley (and therefore Flame) seems to take forever--realistically so, but it's still tough to get through.The rest of it is pretty good. Steve and Pike are likable, and the horses and their valley sound beautiful. I'm not convinced of Farley's idea of the genetics of the island, but since it was written way back when, the fact that he even hand-waved it by having the Piebald represent the 'genetic weaknesses created by inbreeding' is pretty impressive in a non-sci-fi book.
When ever anyone says "The Black Stallion" - THIS is the book I think of. I remember so many random little things about this story - the chalk arrows/drawings in the caves, lamenting the flashlight parts they DIDN'T bring, how they worried over the fight with the Piebald and the future mating issues. I'm sure it's been 30 year since I read it, but I still love this book.
My dad told me once he was always looking for the best adventure story. This book, I think, qualifies. Not only does it have a lost world, 'buried' treasure, suspense and secrecy, but it's a great horse story!(What more could a 13-year-old girl want? - LOL)Rereading it as an adult, I notice the only plot idea it doesn't have is romance, but the adventure aspects still hold up well.
This was my favourite book when I was 10 years old. I think I must have read it a dozen times. Not in the past 18 years or so though!
This was SUCH a good horse-lovers' book! It's full of adventure, glamour, and, of course, a gorgeous wild stallion. So fun! I absolutely loved it :)
I didn't have access to very many books when I was younger, so checking off the to-do to "Reread your favorite book from your childhood" was a bit of a stumper.
I don't know how old I was when I first read this, but I clearly recalled some parts.
It turns out, I recalled them wrong.
I found bits in this book that fascinated me and I retold them through imagination until I didn't remember the original anymore.
Reader on top: Public libraries, pleasure reading, and models of reading.
Library Trends, 57(4), 632-656.
"Tomorrow, tomorrow. And the day after – and the one after that. Oh, if only I could be with him always!"The Black will always have a special place in my heart and is my favorite literary horse, but this is my favorite of the Flame books. It brings back to mind the original Black Stallion, except the setting isn't a desert, it's an island paradise. We get to see a boy and horse forge a bond under extraordinary circumstances.
I first read this book back around 1960 in a nice hardcover with dustjacket. It's my favorite of Walter Farley's books. I think it was the island, its caves, and the hidden valley that I found so intriguing. Really liked the book!
Tira and I just finished the 4th book in the Black Stallion series! She gave it 5 stars and is looking forward to the horseback riding we will do to celebrate finishing the book. On to the next one!
It was about a boy that went to an island and found a hidden valley. In the valley, he found a stallion that you will have to read about.
A classic horse book! Avoid this one if you don't want to read about wild horses killing each other, though. It gets a bit violent, but not gruesome.
Loved this book as a kid.
I have read this one several times over the years!
It’s a beautiful animal, nothing like the scraggly horses that live on the plain, and the friends realize there must be more to the interior of the island than just rock.
Then Steve discovers Flame, the wild stallion of his dreamsThis, like The Black Stallion, is the wonderful story of the relationship that grows up between a boy and a wild horse.
My last trip was just this week; I brought along my two boys who loved Flame as much as I always have.Like The Black Stallion, I give The Island Stallion the highest recommendation simply on its ability to cultivate dreams.
I also remember this book in particular as it is my favorite of the series.
It is a little too easy for me to read now, definitely meant for younger readers, but the vocabulary is great and the story moves well.
Pitch had moved to Antago to live with his brother Tom and work as his book keeper.
After an intensive search, Steve and Pitch discover a way into the interior of the island - a series of tunnels left by the conquistadores.
I highly recommend this book to any reader in middle and high school, particularly ones who love horses.
Still, the story about Steve's love and his cousin's Pitch, who is with him on this island adventure, is about going forth to discover what you so wish to find.
Flame is the stallion to a herd of mares and young horses and he was left by the Conquistadors.Another character, the half-brother to Pitch named Tom, is a brutal horse dealer.
The book has a brutal moment toward the end between two stallion horses, but it is part of nature although a young child reading this book might not like it.All in all, I enjoyed the book.
However a storm comes up and their small boat gets tossed into a hidden channel which reveals a secret passageway into the interior of the hollow island, to a grassy land and blue lake.Another author would have made this a pirate treasure story; Farley of course gives us a large herd of beautiful horses left by the Conquistadores and gone wild.
A fiery chestnut stallion which Steve names Flame allows Steve to befriend him (these horses had no predators) while Pitch wants to keep the lost world secret until he has had a proper chance to study the antique cannons and other artefacts.One of Farley's best books, which makes it one of the best horse stories around, this will bring young people to read it again and again.
Very early on his writing career, Farley got bored with the Black Stallion series.
I'm not sure if Farley ever admitted that in public but that certainly seems to be how his books read.
This is also a boy meets wild horse story, but Farley did it miles better in The Black Stallion.
It's kind of like Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's The Lost World only there's horses instead of dinosaurs.This book takes a long while to get going.
Steve (our fearless and arguably obsessed protagonist) is also a cardboard cutout of a character that seems numb to just about everything.I think you have to be younger to enjoy this book.
In a novel similar to The Black Stallion, Farley introduces us to a whole new set of horse adventures.
Young Steve travels to an island paradise in search of a mythical horse - and what he finds is even more than what he dreamed.
He dares to hope that he has found his dream horse at last...
though at what price is a question he still has to answer.The Island Stallion is as exciting as any of the Black Stallion books, and I didn't mind being diverted to a new origin story as Farley masterfully weaves another tale of action and adventure on a deserted island.
Well, that has been disappointing.
When the time on the island has come to an end and Steve decided to forsake an entire breed of horses because he wants his (wild and barely tamed) horse with him?
Knowing what will happen to the other horses when a certain character learns of the existence of this herd?
The whole seesaw between "It's better for the herd to let Flame here." and "Nooo.
I have to take him with me." really started to get on my nerves in the end and Steve became very unlikeable for me then.
I started a Black Stallion re-read several years ago, and though I've been buying the books as I come across them, I've failed to keep up with my re-read.
Probably because I knew that this was next in line, and I never liked the Island books as well as the ones about the Black.
My memory served me well- this is a clunky, painful book.
The two human characters are dorky beyond all belief, and the horses are either angels or demons.
The plot about the Conquistadores is also clunky.
Clunky, clunky, clunky.
I read the whole thing again.
I started re-reading The Black Stallion series by Walter Farley in April and read five more from that series in May: Son of the Black Stallion, The Black Stallion and Satan, The Island Stallion, The Island Stallion's Fury, and The Blood Bay Colt. Only The Black Stallion and Satan was as enjoyable as when I was a kid, though I remember never really caring for the Island Stallion "spin-offs" or the two books on harness racing. Where's Alec and The Black? Bring 'em back!
This is perhaps the best horse story I have EVER read, and I have read (at least) hundreds. I first read it when I was in elementary school; it grabbed my imagination throughly. It was so good that I've reread it a few times (very rare for me) and occasionally still find myself pondering certain parts of the story. A genuine classic I recommend to any young reader and/ or horse lover.
How have I not marked this as read?? One of my favorite books in the Black Stallion series. On nights I can't sleep I still remember the part where the main character needs sleep but can't and just says something like "rest is as good as sleep for a couple hours". Probably the root of my insomnia right there lol.
Even grown up I love this book. It has moments that make me roll my eyes from lack of realism (The Island Stallion and the Black Stallion would not have decided who was supreme by a race. That's not how horses do things.) The history though, and the way it was handled makes it 5 stars because I can still enjoy it even all grown up.
I read this out loud to my girls after reading the first 3 to them. They were disappointed in the spinoff. Steve is pretty whiny and the relationship between him and his friend is just weird. His obsession with the horse is a little much and it treads the same ground as the black stallion and son of the black stallion; boy befriends aggressive wild stallion through traumatic experience.
This book definately moved slower than the first three-there is little human interaction and so there is lots of description and talking to the horse. The few paragraphs from the horses perspective were new-I liked break from straight narration and the author did not overly humanize how a horse would feel.
