https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/145152.The_Cellar
There must be something wrong with me because I really enjoyed reading this twisted story.
I thought this was my first Richard Laymon book but when I reached a certain part, I realized I read this book when I was still a teenager and never forgot how disturbing it was but I had no idea it was an R.L. book.
(Richard Laymon was not in my vocabulary in that lifetime).
I recommend this book only to horror lovers who are open to "anything goes" in their choice of reading material.
I was going to wait until tomorrow to review this book, but fuck it.
I need to get this over with.
I read this once before but all I could remember was the creature was cool.
Fuck this book.In summation: I can't be bothered to properly review this flaming sack of collected camel farts.
This, one of his first novels, is about as pleasant to read as a car manual.
Final Judgment: This book touched me in my no-no place.
It starts out with a triple murder, then more murder, and as a topper an innocent child is abused and molested in typical Laymon style.
Laymon's writing has a way of sucking you in and not letting you go, right?
She has run-ins with every lecherous man on the planet and ultimately ends up meeting the beast who resides in "The Cellar".
A little past a third of the way through the book delves into the past of the "beast" because, well we had to know, didn't we?
But, damnitall, the last chapter made no sense when given the fact that the woman/child had been abused throughout the entire book.
and from that perspective, in my opinion, laymon is an entertaining pulp writer with striking ideas and expertise at writing page-turners, capable of strong execution, but having poor technical writing skills, an inability to develop realistic characters, and a highly problematic engagement with child abuse & molestation & perhaps women in general.
message 466: by Branden I would say that is right, Mark, but you cannot then go on to judge how these individuals are in real life like you have with Laymon, saying that the man, the individual, has "a highly problematic engagement with child abuse & molestation & perhaps women in general".
Like many Laymon books, this is PURE horror - which means, no happy ending.
Characters in the book include: a man who was one of the very few to escape the Beast House has hired a hit man to kill The Beast; a woman and her child are on the run from her husband, who has been in jail for raping her daughter; and the Beast House itself - a house in which many gruesome murders have been committed, and to which it is said you should not venture in the dark or the Beast will get you ...
THE CELLAR is simply *no fun* and no good.
You want fun graphic tasteless sexual horror, read Graham Masterton's THE MANITOU, PIN by Andrew Neiderman, or Ray Russell's INCUBUS.
You want dead serious graphic horror with a sexual element, read Jack Ketchum's THE GIRL NEXT DOOR, BLACK DAHLIA by James Ellroy, NIGHTRUNNERS by Joe Lansdale, or Clive Barker's BOOKS OF BLOOD.
You want smart erotic horror, read Poppy Z.
I've also read Laymon's RESURRECTION DREAMS from '88, and again, its central idea was fine, but the finished product was one big turd.
When I first became interested in reading a little more extreme horror I was very reluctant to dip into topics that might offend me.
If u read this book, you know that it does have scenes of sexual abuse of a minor or minors.
Bothered me and still does, but after reading jack Ketchum's Stranglehold, I figured I could handle it.
Stranglehold was far more difficult to read than this.
Now, that I got that out, this book was pretty good.
The best parts for me being the beast and the diary that unfolded the mystery of how he became.
I hope to be revisited by unsaid characters in The Beast House.
invece mi sbagliavo di grosso."La casa della Bestia" (The Cellar, 1980), suo romanzo di esordio, è un turbinio di perversione, bestialità, pedofilia ed ibridi lovecraftiani uscito dal peggiore degli incubi, con personaggi e situazioni a dir poco improbabili (ma quello era un tratto distintivo del defunto autore, insieme alla sua ossessione per le tette...) ma che nasconde al suo interno una storia appassionante e piena di sorprese che mi ha tenuto sveglio fino a tarda notte e mi hanno fatto letteralmente divorare le ultime 200 e più pagine.Un classico dell'horror anni 80 ma decisamente non per tutti...
I think I read somewhere that Stephen King likes this author's books.
There's some imagery in here that I'll never get out of my head now.The plot seems to consist of a house that has been the scene of a few grisly murders, a woman on the run from her abusive husband, who's just got out of jail after serving time for raping their daughter, two men who want to kill whatever's living in the house and killing people, and a mixed-up family that give tours of the house.There's not too much to redeem this book.
4.5 Stars rounded up to 5. The book ended a little too abruptly so it lost half a star. This is my first book in my goal to read all of Laymon's books in order. I still need to find copies of Out Are The Lights, Night Show, and Allhallow's Eve though. :/ The rest of his bibliography I already have on my Kindle. The three books I still need to get aren't available as ebooks.
He was able to eek out a living, feed his family, and keep a roof over their heads.This alone qualifies him as a literary hero.Things improved for Laymon in the late ‘90s.
Laymon’s American fan-base grew.But — because life is as random and violent as … well, a Richard Laymon novel — Richard Laymon died of a massive heart attack in February 2001.The Cellar (1980) is Richard Laymon’s first published novel, and one of his best (rivaled only by 1988′s Resurrection Dreams).
It’s the first volume in The Beast House Series, and showcases Laymon’s lean writing style, penchant for fast-paced plots, and masterful use of dialogue.The Cellar is a blend of creature-feature and crime thriller, like From Dusk ‘Til Dawn.
Perhaps, but not in a good way.There are many goofy/sleazy things to like in The Cellar: the way it tries to mishmash a horror plot with an action movie; the way the hero is loath to litter; the way ridiculous anxiety is tossed upon ridiculous anxiety when a car crashes off a road; the way Beast House, a tourist-trap attraction, has seen scores of people murdered in it throughout the years, yet has never been condemned or investigated by authorities; the way a sex scene is described thusly: "He became part of her hair, the quiet sounds she made in her throat, her dry places and her slippery places, the many smells of her, the tastes.
I enjoyed this book for the most part. It was very interesting, I couldn't put it down. It lost one star for feeling a bit unfinished, but I imagine it was necessary. I'll have to read the sequel to find out.
Load of Crap - Part One
Right in the middle of a pretty serious situation, she leaves her daughter with a strange, eccentric old man she just met, and has sex with this new guy.
Then, when something horrific happens and they're being told about it, she's just thinking of how she can get alone with the guy again (Jud's his name.) Yes, they get told about a rape, which makes her feel empy since Jud's not "inside her", and she wants to get him alone again.
Monsters that love rape and sex, of course.
Both integrity and prudence behoove a reviewer of The Cellar, Richard Laymon’s debut novel, to take it to task for its lazy plotting, its inconsistent characters with their dubious motivations and boring sex scenes, and its exploitation of pedophilia as a means of manipulating the reader to keep turning the page as the author treats these frequent and unpleasant passages of predation as a sort of slapstick.
A creepy house infested with incestuous anthropomorphic rats ever eager for the next bisexual gang bang?
Won't find that in the latest bestseller with a dead woman in its title.
I mean, unless you like scenes of child rape, adult rape, general misogyny, a one-note villain whose plot just sort of sputters out and stops rather than being resolved, and more rape.
This book also has the stupidest plot twist you can imagine.
Seriously, think of a stupid plot twist.
MUCH.I found myself reading this book out of inertia, hoping that it would somehow resolve into something that, while not GOOD, was at least mildly entertaining.
I hate leaving books half-read, even if I don't like them that much.
I regret reading this book.
A good year for horror and the start of Laymon’s Beast House series and Air Supply was “All Out of Love”.
It is a classic horror novel from the 80’s and the first work by Richard Laymon who went on to become one of the true masters of horror.I really liked this one a lot.
I only wish that the just dessert involved could have been drawn out a bit more…like for a month.A great first novel from a true master of horror!
I am looking forward to the rest of the Beast House series.
I'm not against pedophilia as a plot device; its unfortunately a conceivable and real part of our world and therefore acceptably part of writing, both fiction and non-fiction.
After establishing that Roy is a really bad guy (he raped his six year old daughter), Laymon gives us the bathroom implied sex, and definitely not implied, murder scene (he lays with a naked 12-year old girl in a blood filled bathtub).
Let me make one thing perfectly clear, I'm not a prude when it comes to explicit sex or violence in writing (as long as its not purely gratuitous).
It is so poorly written into the plot and so, so unbelievable.The ending.
Donna y su hija Sandy huyen de Roy, que acaba de salir de prisión con un único objetivo: atraparlas a toda costa.
Madre e hija van a parar a un pueblo de mala muerte llamado Malcasa Point.
La mayor atracción de este pueblo es La Casa de la Bestia, una vieja mansión donde por unos dólares es posible visitar los lugares donde se cometieron asesinatos por parte de una extraña bestia que nadie ha visto, y que llevan sucediéndose desde hace cien años.
En cuanto a lo demás, quien haya leído a Laymon ya sabe lo que se va a encontrar: sangre, sexo y escenas desagradables.
review shortly
I made it past the 50% mark which is enough for me to feel comfortable writing a review for this one.I've read a couple of Richard Laymon's later titles.
In fact, the first Laymon I read was a novel that was released just after his passing.
The writing, the dialogue, and the characters are all unnatural and hard to read.I had planned to push through to the end, but one of the continuing plot lines of this book is child rape.
I wish I didn't have to DNF it because DNF books hover in my brain longer than books I finish, but I can't possibly read another page of rape and molestation.
Uh...3? I seriously have no idea wtf I just read. Poorly written and full of nonsense, but easy to fly through (minus the wtf factor), and just...I have no idea ok?I have no idea...
For the past two years I have read horror more than any other genre, and even I thought this book was a little bit too messed up in places.The action surrounds a “beast” that inhabits a house called the Beast House by its owners who sell tours of the property.
Laymon should get a lot of credit for coming up with a original and creepy baddie.
Laymon takes a bit too much time, gives a bit too much detail, and seems to enjoy his audience squirming a little more than is ok by our standards 38 years later.
2.5 starsThis is my second Richard Laymon book, and I feel pretty much the same about this one as the first. Some of the book (the general idea of The Beast House), is decent, some of the book (the whole Roy story- gross and not really necessary, at least not in that much detail) is awful. The characters are boring, one dimensional, and idiotic, and the dialogue is ridiculous. The epilogue saved the book a little though. I may give one more of his books a try, but I'm pretty sure Richard Laymon's writing is not my style.
Blown away!This author definitely knows his suspense, drama, gore, horrors and brings them all together with human and beast. What an ending! Going to have to move onto the next...highly recommend this to all fans of modern horror!
This was a decent read, reminiscent of most 70s early 80s horror. There were extremely unrealistic relationships formed almost instantly, along with other minor annoyances, but overall the storyline made up for the negatives. Cracking open the next book in the series now :)
Parece ser que todo lo que leo de este señor puede describirse como: wtf?
The best and worst of Laymon rolled into one? Will have to ponder this one for a bit, let it settle...
A MAJOR let down. Juvenile writing. Poorly plotted. No major character development. Also, it was as if the book seemed to want to tell 3 different stories at once, couldn't decide which one to focus on, and therefore did a terrible job with ALL of them! --Jen from Quebec :0)
