https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41888.A_Giraffe_and_a_Half
A Giraffe and a Half, Shel SilversteinDelightfully zany rhymes about a giraffe who accumulates some ridiculous things--like glue on his shoe and a bee on his knee--only to lose them again, one by one.
"Infectiously funny .
ا. شربیانی
عمو شل همیشه در داستان های کودکانه اش معنای قشنگی برای گفتن داره. او میخاد به ما و بچه ها نشون بده که داشتن همه چیز یعنی شلوغی و دست و پاگیری و نه خوشبختیپس بیایید از بودن با زرافه دوست داشتنی مون لذت ببریمو بیخیال یه زرافه و نیم با موشی توی کلاهش، با لباس شیک و ماهش، با گلسرخی رو دماغش، با صندلی روی موهاش، با ماری کیک به دهان و...بشیم:)
كاتب مجنون بمخيّلة استثنائية وطاقة غنائية عالية. أحبه.
Such a cute & lovely book :))کتاب جذاب، بامزه و خنده داری بود. واسه خوب شدن حالتون بشدت پیشنهادش میدم :))
خلاقانه و بانمک. خواندن کتابهای سلیوراستاین لدتبخشه. بویژه برای بچه ها.
Missed this book when I was growing up. Shel seemed to be 'channeling' his inner Dr. Seuss when he wrote this book. Great book for a young child.
این یکی عالیییییی بود!!!!عالی!!!!!!یعنی تو کتابفروشی داشتم میخوندمش خیلی سعی داشتم اروم بخندم ولی یه دفعه ای قهقه میزدم ملت برمیگشتن و نگاهی از سر تاسف بهم مینداختن!!!..you would have a giraffe and a halfwith a rat in his hatlooking cute in a suitwith a rose on his noseand a bee on his knee...عالی یعنی:))))
بامزه بود :))
نقاشی ها خیلی خوب بودند. کلا هم بامزه بود، اما نه آن قدرها هم.البته مسئله ای که هست این است که به زبان انگلیسی آهنگین است، اما ترجمه اش نه.
ای جان عزیزم چقدر بامزه بود ... کلی خندیدم. بلند بلند میخوندم
برای برادرزادم خریده بودمش.. نمیتونم بگم من بیشتر تفریح کردم یا اون!
قبلا که بچه بودم ترجمش رو خونده بودم و خیلی خوشم اومده بود امروز بعد از سال ها دوباره رفتم سراغش و انگلیسیش رو خوندم که حتی بیشتر ازش لذت بردم
روی پله ورودی شبستان نشسته بودم و بلند بلند میخندیدم باهاش :)))خیلی خیلی جالب بود :دی
من ترجمه فارسیش رو خوندم. این همه که همه میگفتن خنده داره، خنده دار نبود به نظرم
Very short and light read. This was amusing, I was amused with the rhymes about the giraffe and sort of other things. The Giraffe and a half with a rat on his hat, then it goes on very long with a glued rose on his nose, a bumble bee and a flute and a suit and blah blah blah.. This is cute and enjoyable.
Author: Shel Silverstein Illustrator: Shel SilversteinGenre: fictional poetry picture book Publication Info: Harper Collins (1964) Reading Level: Ages 4-8; earlyTopic/Theme: silly stories and situationsIssues Addressed: humorous, and unrealistic events happening to an animalClassroom Uses: independent reading, read aloud; I would probably incorporate this into the curriculum during a poetry unit or lessonSummary: A giraffe gets stretched by one half, making him a giraffe and a half.
The illustrations go along well with the text because they depict what is actually happening to the giraffe.Literary Devices: rhyming and rhythmic poetry
This cumulative book features a small boy and his pet giraffe and considers the question, “If you had a giraffe…and he stretched another half…you would have a giraffe and a half.” The turn of each page adds another rhyming element to the list – a rat in a hat, a rose in his nose, a bee on his knee – until the giraffe is precariously covered with animals and objects.
Luckily, the second half of the book is devoted to removing one rhyme at a time, until the boy is left standing with a giraffe.The tongue-twisting text is a challenge to read aloud, but you’ll win over the kids just by trying.
یک زرافه و نیم (دو زبانه)/ شِل سیلور استاین/ ترجمه ی رضی خدادادی (هیرمندی) / 48 صفحه / نشر هستان/ چاپ دوم 1383/ تاریخ تموم کردن کتاب: جمعه 17 دی 95این کتاب شامل یه داستان کوتاهه و مخاطبش کاملا بچه های کم سن و سال هستن و برای بزرگتر ها چیزی نداره این داستان (برخلاف بقیه ی کتابای شِل که تا الان خوندم).
مفهوم خاصی توش نداره و برای بچه ها می تونه سرگرمی کوتاه مدت خوبی باشه مخصوصا که توش پر از نقاشیای جالبه میتونن رنگش کنن...
پس خوبی این کتاب این بود که با ورژن انگلیسی شعرای شِل هم بیشتر آشنا شدم 
Such a cute book! I don't know why but while I was reading this book, I turned it into a musical in my head.
The rhyming scheme is fantastic and goes great with the pictures.
The book starts off with a giraffe and his kid owner and how different things happen to the giraffe such as he gets dressed in a suit and looks very cute.
Slowly but surely things keep being added to the giraffe until it is almost unbearable and then one by one, they are taken away again.
The simplistic picture design yet complex additions to the giraffe become a spectacle to look at.
It is a great book to read with small children.
Khas banget Silverstein. Permainan kata (repetisi dan rima), dengan ending yang menarik. Kocak, sudah pasti!If you had a giraffe,and it stretched another half,you would havea giraffe and a half...If he put on a hatand inside lived a ratyou would have a giraffe and a halfwith a rat in his hat...If you dressed him in a suitand he looked very cuteyou would have a giraffe and a halfwith a rat in his hatlooking cute in a suit....
ওহ হো! এই বইটা দেখি রেট করিনি। ছনদময়, মজাদার একটাই ছড়া পুরো বইটা জুড়ে। সাথে খুবই ফানি কিছু লাইন ডরয়িং। যে বইগুলো আমি ভবিষযতে আমার বাচচাদের পড়ে শুনাবো তার মাঝে এটা অবশযই থাকবে। বড়দের মাঝেও যারা নিজের ভিতরে একটা শিশু বাঁচিয়ে রাখতে পেরেছেন (গরবের সাথে বলি, আমি পেরেছি), এটা তাদের জনযও ডিলাইটফুল রিডিং। :)
ওহ হো! এই বইটা দেখি রেট করিনি। ছন্দময়, মজাদার একটাই ছড়া পুরো বইটা জুড়ে। সাথে খুবই ফানি কিছু লাইন ড্রয়িং। যে বইগুলো আমি ভবিষ্যতে আমার বাচ্চাদের পড়ে শুনাবো তার মাঝে এটা অবশ্যই থাকবে। বড়দের মাঝেও যারা নিজের ভিতরে একটা শিশু বাঁচিয়ে রাখতে পেরেছেন (গর্বের সাথে বলি, আমি পেরেছি), এটা তাদের জন্যও ডিলাইটফুল রিডিং। :)
خیلی بچه که بودم خوندمش. در حدی که میشستم عکسهاش رو رنگ میکردم! حقیقتن نمیتونم الان نظری بدم دربارش.
خیلی بچه که بودم خوندمش. در حدی که میشستم عکس‌هاش رو رنگ می‌کردم! حقیقتن نمیتونم الان نظری بدم دربارش.
I read this Shel Silverstein book for the first time tonight to my 7 year old who is dyslexic. Great book. Creative and fun. It repeats but in a way that is enjoyable for all ages.
خيلي وقته از شلبي خوندنم گذشته، اما مزه اش هنوز زير دندونمه! :)
It is filled with funny situations, mostly ones that probably never could happen except in one's imagination (and seen in a book), but they are so fun and so laughable.
Shel Silverstein's is the artist as well and has drawn wonderful black line drawings on white paper that dance with the rhyming words on every page.
You can't help but love this silly book and the giraffe which gets into all kinds of crazy situations.
Reading Level: 4 - 8 YearsAuthor/Illustrator:Shel Silverstein is the author-artist of many beloved books of prose and poetry.
انا ضحكت :D نجمتين عشان الفكرة المختلفة
Shel Silverstein is a childhood favorite as are giraffes, so I couldn't resist buying this 50th anniversary edition of "A Giraffe and a Half." I bought it as a birthday present for myself, in the gift shop of the children's hospital where I volunteer.
There is a soothing, musical quality and it is fun to try to commit the story to memory, like "The Twelve Days of Christmas." Instead of "...a Partridge in a Pear tree," there is "...an old trunk/and inside was a skunk..."I won't give too much of the rhymes away here.

If he put on a hat and inside lived a rat, you would have a giraffe and half with a rat in his hat.” And so the story goes on adding ridiculous yet humorous objects and animals to the giraffe, until he falls in a hole.
“But if you brought him a pole to climb out of the hole…” which begins the undoing of the first half of the story.
•	This is a very good book for children because of the humor found in the text as well as in the illustrations.
•	The illustrations in this book add more humor the already comical storyline.
Shel Silverstein yet again makes poetry super fun and enjoyable through a little boy and his relationship with a Giraffe and how he got stretched so he is a giraffe and a half now.
My favorite line of the book is " you would have a giraffe and a half..with a rat in his hat, looking cute in a suit, with a rose on his nose, and a bee on his knee." This literally had my imagination running wild full of imagery about this cute "little" giraffe and the suit and rose and rat.
