https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2233407.From_Dead_to_Worse
(B+) 77% | GoodNotes: A housekeeping book. All loosed ends and continuing plot threads resolve and a new series paradigm is established.
This is a subplot I’m only mildly interested in anymore.Loose End #2 aka the Vamp WarGAH!
Loose End #3 aka What happened to Quinn?My heart completely jumped out of chest, ran down the road, and began kicking the shite out of this completely two-faced, blind main character who has lost all her good sense and ability to see the world clearly.
My prediction: Sookie will realize her horrid mistake just in time for Quinn to die in her arms at a later date.
I don’t think Eric or Bill or even Sam is good enough for Sookie.
Yes, it would have made marketing the book a bit difficult, but might have given readers a better idea of what to expect.Sookie encounters a war in the were community, then a war between the vampires, then she breaks off her relationship, then she discovers a long lost relative, then she discovers another long lost relative.
I liked a couple of the storylines, but mashing them all together like that made them lose their potency and makes the book a lot weaker.
This is the most recent published book in this series, so I can stop reading for a while now and feel a bit relieved at the prospect.
In this book, we learn a little more about where Sookie's 'gift' comes from.
There's death, mayhem, and magic all around...and Sookie has to figure out if she can learn to accept her life in this new world of danger, insecurity, and maybe....love?If you've been following Sookie's story.
Stop reading and go get this book.If you haven't read this series yet...I'm not really sure quite how to describe it.
It has humor and sadness, love and hate, supernaturals galore, and Sookie is the ?human?
Charlaine Harris will suck you right in to Sookie's world and you'll be caught like the rest of us...anxiously awaiting the next chapter in Sookie's life.
What's more, her world is very real, her vampires are interesting, and I love that she's taken all of her carefully laid-out plots and sent them topsy-turvy in the wake of Katrina.
Very little has driven home the tragedy of Katrina as well as CH's last few books.But this was clearly not a whole novel -- it was more like a handful of short story ideas all tumbled together into a book-length collection.
Okay, there's a lot of crap piling up on her head, but she's usually so sweet.
However, all that said, CH is clearly setting up some really really interesting stuff for the next four or five books.
This was another enjoyable instalment in this series, and there were several things that surprised me.Sookie of course ended up in mortal danger at points in this book, and she was lucky to end up alive really.
There were some problems between the wolf packs, and problems between the vampires, as well as the arrival of an unexpected relative to deal with, and Sookie really did find herself in some shockingly bad situations!
That being said, there were some things that surprised me, and a couple of interesting moments, as well as a little bit of a cliff-hanger at the end (view spoiler)[ how many more telepaths is Sookie going to come across?

The book was entertaining, but something is beginning to bother me about the writing as I continue with this series, although I can't quite put my finger on it.Maybe it's that Sookie's inner voice is starting to sound like that of Harper Connelly, the protagonist of Harris' other paranormal series, and that's not a good thing.
I like these kind of details, I really do, but this book isn't long enough to support them.
Book Eight, and Harris can’t even get past the first line of the “Previously in this Series” summary before annoying me with her inaccuracy and stupidity. She begins: “If this was The Lord of the Rings and I had a smart British voice like Cate Blanchett, I could tell you the background of the events of that fall in a really suspenseful way.” This annoys me for three reasons:1. Cate Blanchett doesn’t have a British voice. She is Australian. 2. There is no such thing as a British accent. Britain i
She begins: “If this was The Lord of the Rings and I had a smart British voice like Cate Blanchett, I could tell you the background of the events of that fall in a really suspenseful way.” This annoys me for three reasons:1.
She recalls some problems in her relationship with her mother, adds this to the new information that her father was ¼ fairy, and concludes that obviously her relationship with her mother, who died when Sookie was seven, was strained because her mother was obsessed with her husband, Sookie’s father, and thus felt sexual jealousy toward her young daughter regarding him.
And, yes, I realize that my favorite Sookie books are also the ones with a high Eric factor.
Fortunately, Ms. Harris seems to be channeling the good Eric vibes as well, because I continue to like where his and Sookie's relationship is going.
Post-Hurricane Katrina Louisiana is also still recovering and several new people come into Sookie's life as a result of this necessary shifting around of their state and their lives.
And, even though I will always despise him, he did remind me (and Sookie) of a few of the reasons they got together in the first book.
From Dead to Worse is the eighth book in Charlaine Harris' Sookie Stackhouse series.
After not liking the last installment overmuch (All Together Dead), I thought FDTW was a nice return to Sookie's roots and the foundation that made the series so good in the first place - Sookie being herself back home in Bon Temps, Louisiana.This book seemed like somewhat of a transition.
And as always, Sookie's romantic interests are a source of tension in the book as she tries to work out who and what's right for her - shifter, weretiger or vampire.It also contracts a bit as some characters were written out or killed off.
Can't get any worse. When you don't care about Bill,Quinn,Tanya,who will Sookie date and whatever is happening with Jason and Crystal, it's kinda hard to care about anything that is happening in this.
Enlisted for her telepathic powers, Sookie’s efforts to reconcile opposing factions of the Shreveport weres deteriorates into a battle that sees many dead.
Sookie breaks a finger (but not one of hers), does a bit of mediating and saves quite a few lives.
There are several attempts on her life by the end of this instalment, so Sookie is surprised and rather satisfied to find herself now under the protection of three powerful individuals.
And after her brother Jason’s disappointing behaviour, Sookie is pleased to learn she has two more living relatives of whom she was unaware.
Sookie is still the same--as are the handful of minor characters--and this is what makes me return to these outlandish novels.Book 8's first half is about the end of the Were War, and the second half is about the new installation of Ruling Vamps to the Louisiana legion.
More characters are killed off while new ones or met...
making the Sookie Stackhouse saga even more unpredictable.
Yup. But this is the end of the line for me.
This series is showing its longevity at this point, with an awful lot of threads to keep weaving, making this book very much a busy pattern.Relationships are always the main focus of these novels, and lots of things shake out in this installment.
Quinn gets kicked to the curb for being a mama’s boy, Alcide becomes an also-ran but gains in werewolf pack status, Bill attempts to re-enter the running for Sookie’s affections, Eric regains his memory of his time as Sookie’s favourite, Calvin has successfully moved on, and it seems to me that Sam is still quietly in the running.
Yay for women friends!There’s a lot of conflict in the book, as there are upsets in both the Were and Vampire worlds that Sookie must adjust to.
Rating: 3.75* of fiveThe Publisher Says: After the natural disaster of Hurricane Katrina and the manmade explosion at the vampire summit, everyone human and otherwise is stressed, including Louisiana cocktail waitress Sookie Stackhouse, who is trying to cope with the fact that her boyfriend Quinn has gone missing.It's clear that things are changing whether the weres and vamps of her corner of Louisiana like it or not.
And Sookie, Friend to the Pack and blood-bonded to Eric Northman, leader of the local vampire community is caught up in the changes.In the ensuing battles, Sookie faces danger, death, and once more, betrayal by someone she loves.
Sookie remains a good, though far from perfect, person, and I enjoy reading her adventures from her kind-hearted but slightly catty point of view.
Although Sookie's mind-reading gives her an edge in many situations, she's wildly underpowered compared to the rest of the supernatural creatures she rubs elbows with.
Sookie worries about the violence and manipulation that comes with being friends with vamps and weres, but her loyalty toward her friends always pulls her back into dangerous situations.Overall, the plot is wobbly and far from air-tight.
This book is mostly about wrapping up old plot threads.
We also got to meet Hunter - he seems like the cutest little boy and he's a telepath as well.
FINALLY Eric remembers everything from his time with Sookie - things with them should be picking up soon!!!!!!This was one of my favorites because there is a lot going on in this book.
The last book didn't have a lot of action so this one makes up for it.
I really enjoyed all the Eric in this book.
I think as much as I like Eric I would much prefer Sookie and Sam together....
❤ 5 From Dead to Worse ❤This book has it all, we have Erik..
But there are things he is having to deal with, and he can’t devote his time to Sookie right now.
Sookie is going through some crazy emotional roller-coasters.
Jason needs to be smacked I don’t care that he is Sookie’s brother what he did was wrong and I for one am glad Sookie laded down the law.
Learning about more family is a treat I am glad Sookie got.
She needed a pick me up in this book and I am glad it was with more family.
She needs it.
Over all I enjoyed this book.
The weres are being murdered, the vamps face a hostile takeover, Bob finally becomes a man again - an angry one and Eric remembers.
Not being funny Sook but he's only known you about 5 mins, it's not like you're married or anything, why wouldn't his family come first?
However this breakup does make way to more potential romance with Eric.
And I'm not saying no to page time with Eric.
I also really like the witches and I'm glad they are living with Sookie, I hope we see more of them and they don't rush back to New Orleans.
Thoughts Had: Ugh. Just kill someone!ConclusionContinuing the Series: YesRecommending: SureShort Review: (view spoiler)[ Why have Jason marry Cyrstal if she was gonna fuck it up 2 books later, and that punishment?!
And freaking Sookie did it, wtf Jason, you coward (hide spoiler)] I find it weird to have Eric actually remember what went on between him and Sookie.
Sookie already told him so what's the point of him remembering and bringing it up again.
And why the fuck would Sookie break up with someone because they have some slight baggage!?!
Ugh. This is why you will probably die alone Sookie.
The latest in the 'Sookie Stackhouse' series, this book ties up a number of loose ends from the previous novels, and charges ahead from the first page.I need to re-read it before I really form a strong opinion on this one.
The ending was wonderful, and I was pleased to note that in this book less men are throwing themselves at Sookie, and that her relationships with non-romantic characters developed quite profoundly.
The introduction of new characters promises excitement in the future, and I do look forward to more of Sookie's adventures.I'll probably edit this review once I've had the chance to re-read!
Nevertheless, something is missing from this installment perhaps because it is a bridging book with the storyline moving in a new and completely different direction.
Plot threads from previous books are wrapped up quickly with well-established characters disappearing, and new people and elements are introduced.
Shaking things up is not necessarily a negative, but not all of the issues are resolved satisfactorily.Sookie's love life is on hiatus although the men in her life still can't seem to let go.
In sum, it will be interesting to see where Harris is going with the new focus, but she definitely needs to liven things up soon.
Plus, the fairy stuff comes in more and that was never my favorite part of the series.
Quinn basically chooses his family over Sookie, but the way it played out seemed like a bit of lazy writing to me.
I think Charlaine Harris just wanted to get him out of the way.Plus, this is when Sookie starts to get all angsty about her bond with Eric and that always pissed me off.
There's more boring Hot Shot stuff and I also never liked the Felipe de Castro storylines and he is in this one too.
This book seemed a little different - there was a series of different, and mostly unrelated, things happening rather than one main plot, which was unusual. It kinda seemed like there were several things/plot-lines/groups etc that needed to advance (plot-wise) so she threw them all into this book to move the story ahead. So it's important to read, in order to understand the next books in the series, but it's perhaps not as exciting as others.
Longer than the last couple of books, better in some ways, it had multiple story lines. Sookie generally has one major issue to work through, this time she had half a dozen or so & it made the book feel a bit unfocused. Not bad & I'm glad I read it. It's fun, fluffy candy reading - very relaxing & enjoyable. It should certainly be read in order with the rest of the series.
Most people will be fine.A fine addition to the Sookie Stackhouse books, Dead to Worse sees Sookie dealing with the continuing aftermath of the debacle in New Orleans.
Her boyfriend is still missing, the witch she picked up as a roommate is still complicating her life, her real grandfather wants to talk to her and all of Louisiana's supernatural communities are reeling from the devastation brought by hurricane Katrina.In Poppy Z.
The physical, social, and economic restructuring from Katrina is mirrored in the supernatural community as well as in the personal lives of the major characters.The book is roughly split in two sections: the first deals with the Shreveport werewolves and the second with the vampire hierarchy.
No. Stupid boy.But the reason I didn't like this book is that there is no central plot other than Sookie figuring out that life is complicated and people are complicated.
She's making her own family with the witches and Hunter (and Hunter's dad) and her new Grandpa and at the same time seeing that family ties you grew up with are not always healthy (ie breaking things off with Jason but realizing that she will have to talk to him eventually).So I liked the book; it is definitely setting up for some more good times in the Sookie-verse.
"Men are incomprehensible assholes," I said to Amelia."No shit," she said. "When I was searching for Bob today, I found a female cat in the woods with kittens. And guess what? They were all black-and-white."I really had no idea what to say... Why did this crack me up? Bob is Amelia's boyfriend that she accidentally turned in to a cat. I swear, baby, it's not what it looks like!So, there are a lot of different storylines going on in this book, but no romance at all. That was kind of refreshing.
"When I was searching for Bob today, I found a female cat in the woods with kittens.
Bob is Amelia's boyfriend that she accidentally turned in to a cat.
Sookie breaks up with Quinn for probably the stupidest reason on Earth, but that just clears the way for Eric, or Boring Bill who is trying to win her back, in the next book.
It almost felt like a transition book that was clearing the way for the next story.
Sookie herself doesn't seem to grow-up much in these books.
From Dead to Worse, the eighth book in the Sookie Stackhouse series, is an oddly transitory kind of book.
A lot of plotlines from previous books--clear back to Book Four--get resolution of a kind, and groundwork is laid down for what will clearly be future plotlines for the series.
We've got a New and Mysterious Relation of Sookie's showing up.
We've got new evidence that Sookie's brother is a mighty ass.
We've got vampires vs.
vampires and werewolves vs.
Overall, the book feels very much like a bridge between what's come before and what's due to come after.
