https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/419348.Counterfeit_Lady
Definitely not the ending the rest of the book (which was very impressive) seemed to build up to.One thing I have come to love about this author is that she builds up the most delicious plot lines.
but as soon as Bianca came into the story, I just wanted to kill her with my bare hands.
I guess without her the story would have lost its drama but I wonder if Jude had to make her quite so horrible?In the end, it was the ending that ruined the book.
At least Bianca died.
I don't ask for much from a book, honestly, but I'd like it if I didn't get thrown off so much by how much it felt like something a pre-teen had written.Also, "OMG, Bianca is so totally a fat slut.
Like, she's fat so obviously she's bad.
She eats like a pig.
What I took away from that was "Nichole is good because she's skinny, Bianca is bad because she's fat." And by all accounts, she was nothing more than statuesque at the start, but Nicole still talked about her weight.
The second half- Unnecessary drama that really drug the book down.
So I have a bag of romance novels because I want to make a craft with the covers, but I actually read (most of) this one, and it was just awful.
The plot was the everlovin' worst, the romance wasn't romantic, and the sexytimes weren't sexy.
I couldn't understand why the girl liked him.
Also, I found it really disturbing that the moment he decides he has the hots for her is the same moment in which he thinks she looks like a child.
Still, the cover will look great on whichever piece of furniture I decide to modpodge.
I have read a lot of Jude Deveraux in the past. I don't remember reading this book so I gave it a chance this past week. Everything was good. Not enough romance..they spent a lot of time apart fighting. The ending was bad though...it just stopped. I had a library copy and I checked to see if it really was the last page or if someone ripped the last chapter out.
A case of mistaken identity resulting in Clay marrying the wrong woman was a nice setup, and the ensuing drama was good.
But about halfway through they both declared their love to one another, and as I noted the number of pages still left, I set it down and started reading something else.
I came back to it today, half listening on tape while I did other things, and I actually think I could have just left it at that halfway point and been fine.
If you haven't tried Deveraux, I suggest you read A Knight in Shining Armor or The Heiress first.
3.5 stars Because I don’t like the ending.
The ending is just like simple without perfect scene.
I want something more, maybe HEA scenes.
What you didn't understand was it was I who was unclean." He lifted himself on one elbow--he had little strength after smashing the glass-and dropped the unicorn down the front of her dress.
"I'll retrieve it later."She smiled, tears rolling down her cheeks.
"You'll return to me?""Always." She shifted the bodice of her dress.
"There's a little silver horn poking me, and someone must remove it."He smiled, his eyes closed.
Really good book, but it didn't end right. It's also part of a series so that could be the reason that it didn't end exactly right.
This trilogy is what got me hooked on Jude Deveraux. Ive loved her books ever since!!! The best romance author in my opinion.
The book is full of emotions and takes place in a lovely setting.
Regan has to grow from a frightened and sheltered lady to a confident and passionate woman.
The right amount of melt your heart romance and heart wrenching angst.River Lady - A reluctant marriage of people from "two different sides of the tracks." Leah is a truly wonderful person and Wes will drive you crazy with his treatment of her.
You get to see the previous James River couples and we return to Sweetbriar as well which I loved!On a side note unrelated to the stories this book is about 2.5 pounds so buying the stories in this format is not for the weak wristed!
Gone are the early days of Ms. Deveraux's career when the antagonist might be a strikingly beautiful woman (Alice in The Velvet Promise, for example).
I don't know what happened after the earlier books in her career.
It seems no one in her books, but the pretty, perfect heroine, could ever weigh less than a draft horse.
Even friends of the heroine, such as Janie in this book, are always big, large or plump.I still quite enjoy Ms. Deveraux's books (at least those she wrote before giving up on historical romances completely), but find I'm not nearly as enamored of them as I once was.
Gripping!
I really enjoyed reading this book, more for the fact that it was well written and always had a surprise around the corner then for the storyline.
But in the end third of the book Judy brushed past them which I preferred.There were a few story line faults, which had me yelling at the characters to simply communicate!!
And a but of back and forthing - will I, won't I, stuff.I always enjoy learning some non-fiction in my fiction for some brain expansion, and this book delivered without being boring.But I loved the fat Bianca character!
While on a trip to England, Clayton Armstrong falls for the beautiful Bianca and asks her to marry him. Clayton returns to America but Bianca refuses to join him there. Clayton then hires men to kidnap Bianca, marry her to him by proxy and bring to her America. The problem there is these men don't know Bianca and it results in Clayton being married to Nicole, Bianca's maid, and Nicole finds herself now married and in America with a husband that doesn't want her.
O carte mai veche a autoarei, dar care si astăzi te face sa oftezi. Superba!
I will go on record as saying that 'Counterfeit Lady' was really,really not a good read.The plot was poorly paced and fairly weak anyway, the characters were abysmal with no redeemable characteristics and the writing style wasn't punchy or engaging.
Instead, he was brutish, demanding and rough with Nicole and he gave nothing back.
Instead, the only depth that Bianca had was her stomach.
Bad fat Bianca and good skinny Nicole.
The plot should have been Nicole and Clayton's mistake of a marriage and then his subsequent chase of Bianca before realisation that snow white was actually the one for him.
The ending: 😒 I hate novels that end in such an opened ended way, especially if it’s a single book story.
I do admit that there are two more books in the series following other characters, so I suppose they would probably have some update as to how Clay and Nicole are faring, but still.
However throughout the book the fact that she’s fat becomes more and more incessant, and being fat seems to be an testament to her evil ways.
The fact that this became so important to everyone as a defense for why she’s a horrible person just rubbed me the wrong way and it just didn’t ever end.
If any one young lady had to go through all the abuse that Nicole does in this book, I would be appalled.
Ms. Deveraux has created an interesting female villainess in Bianca.
I couldn't help but feel a little sorry for her, but it was easy to dislike her.
The two "disfunctional" females in the book did not stand a chance.
In some ways I would have preferred that they get help and get better.
In others, I understand why Ms. Deveraux dismissed them as characters.
She was such a wimp where he was concerned, but a great character in all other ways.
For the break I wanted this was satisfactory but not one of author's best. there's too much going on with never a respite for the heroine and the drama keeps piling up till the end. Clayton as the hero was a wimpy character with not a spine to stand on but probably that helped in developing Nicole's character to the strong woman she was underneath all her romantic dreams. I loved the supporting characters more and surely Wes has his own story which I might look up the next time I need a break from thrillers.
Could have been better.Ending was not really an ending but a sudden stop. Some discrepancies in the story with the timeline which escape me at the moment but I remember they are there. Was a good story but could have been polished more to fix the errors and give a more meaningful ending, maybe with an epilogue introducing the next characters in the next book while giving us our last loving glimpses at our two departing MC’s
Me llamó la atención porque leí sobre estos personajes en otro libro de la saga (La mujer perdida) y tenía curiosidad por saber como terminaron juntos Clayton y Nicole. Y debo decir que aunque la historia de Travis y Reagan me gustó más, este libro es mejor. La historia es mucho más compleja y estructurada y el drama termina siendo mucho más interesante; aunque Clay termina cansando con su obsesión por su cuñada y Nicole es demasiado buena para ser verdad.
I actually liked very much the first half of the story. Jude Deveraux can make you feel the pain and the love of the people. But then so many things happened, that at some point I felt that the goal is to prolong the story and nothing more. After Nicole confessed her story to Clayton and we find out why Clayton wanted to marry Bianca so much, the story just gets worse and worse.
I have read and reread this book so many times. I adore Jude Deveraux and her characters become friends. This story can be read as a stand alone but works best as part of the series. I do hate how the book ends, but aside from that and the moments when you want to smack the main characters it's a great story. You get pulled in from the beginning and take their journey with them.
its great
The mother suddenly appearing was a tad too much for me.
The guys was an ass
Lu il y a longtemps. Je n'en garde quasi aucun souvenir si ce n'est que je n'ai pas beaucoup aimé. Je l'ai d'ailleurs rapidement revendu.

But then again, Miss Jude has her way of making the reader fall in love with the hero as well -which is insane actually; nevertheless, I loved the fact that I am once again, in awe of everything in the story -in awe of how greedy people can be, how much they are willing to do just for wealth and possessions, how evil they are to use love in ways where in love isn't felt at all, but most especially, how much they are willing to do and sacrifice just for love.Again, I am in awe of how beautiful everything is built by the author in the story.
Nicole finds herself on a ship set for America with a boisterous blonde woman named Janie.
Once she reaches America, Nicole learns that she's a lot stronger and more independent then she's ever thought.This is the second time I've read this and I have to say that I loved it as much this time as I did the first time.
Nicole is strong, both in mind and spirit, and more independent then she'd probably ever thought she could be.
Clay annoyed me a lot as he couldn't seem to make up his mind and liked having his cake and eating it too no matter the cost to everyone around him, including himself.
Really, really bad book.
But this book was by no means "ok." So poorly written.
Author had absolutely no feel for antebellum Southern society.
I live in Virginia very near the setting of the book.
Clay--weak coward who can't function without his heroine--all obstacles (real or imagined) debilitate him.
Janie--loyal and not afraid to use her wooden spoon as a weapon.
Maggie--Janie.
I just wanted Clay to actually be dead at the end and I wanted her to be raped by Abe. They deserved it.
Please feel free to congratulate me on my discipline in finishing this "book."
Clay's plans go awry when the kidnappers take Nichole and not Bianca.
However; Clay gets lucky in that Nichole is an amazing, passionate, loving woman and makes a great wife.
But when Bianca discovers that Clay is rich, she travels to America and sets about taking Clay back from Nichole.
Loving Clay and being his wife is all Nichole wants but she's not willing to settle and Bianca schemes her way into Clay's life, causing him to cast Nichole aside.
Throughout everything Clay and Nichole love each other but until they can find a way to break free of Bianca, it seems their lives are meant to be apart.
