https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/994663.Anatomy_of_a_Murder
Voelker based the novel on a 1952 murder case in which he was the defense attorney." (< Wikipedia)It looks so simple at the beginning: When his wife Laura woke him up and to tell him she had been beaten and raped, Army Lieutenant Frederick Manion picked up his loaded Luger went out and shot the man she said did it, bartender Barney Quill.
Because Jimmy Stewart plays our hero in the movie, there may be little doubt going in as to how the case will turn out – but it's not that simple.
While I've been reading legal thrillers by John Grisham for the last fifteen years, I'd never heard of this 1950s-era novel.
Despite the dramatic start, Anatomy isn't a 'thriller'; it strikes me as a more mature novel.
The author was a practicing attorney and a judge, and wrote the novel based on one of his own cases.
The judge's lifetime of of experience is on full display here, talking with the reader through Biegler's conversations with Manion and others about the nature of law itself: its uses, its shortcomings.
In short, Anatomy of a Murder is a richer legal novel than any I've read, and I wish my library carried more by the author.
Thanks to a facebook friend for recommending I read this book for my read 50 books from 50states challenge.
This book takes place in MICHIGAN!
and I heard it is loosely based on real events.Well I will say for a book written in the 1950's this was a topic I did not expect to be, and then I found out it was a very popular book and made into a movie.A crime of rape and murder that is brought to a sensational trial.
Most of the book is about the prep work for the trial and then the trial.
It was interesting, and definitely edgy for 1958, but it was written in this pedantic, good old boys, kind of style that drive me mad. If you like courtroom drama, AND you don't mind a man's man type style... and you're not too hung up on getting to the story quickly, this will be a great book to read. If any of those things annoy you, stay away.
At #2 on the 1958 bestseller list is this story of a murder and trial, set in a small town in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan.
The legal thriller has become a staple in current fiction but was a fairly new genre in the 1950s.
The murderer confessed to his crime and turned himself in on the night of the murder, so our hero, former DA Paul Beigler, plans his defense around a variation of the insanity plea.
The reader gets instructed along with the judge and jury, on the workings of such a plea.
A classicI had heard of this novel most of my life, and I finally decided to see what all the fuss was about back in its day. I was fascinated by the approach it took to a murder, knowing guilt at the outset, then truly hoping that innocence by means of insanity would be proven. We learn a lot about human nature, especially our own, by the time we reach the end. Equally fascinating is to compare that time, 50 years ago, to today. Maybe it's best I waited so long.
I randomly picked this up off my grandparent's bookshelf of leather-bound Franklin books. I have to say that not only did I thoroughly enjoy the well written story, but I learned more about our legal system than in both my high school and college civics classes combined. This will absolutely be a re-read!
From there, the plot takes its reader through a passionate search for truth while guided by the law.
Anatomy of a Murder then becomes a book about that evolved ritual of the law known as the trial.
The process is guided by a judge, who's sole responsibility is to place the law above any human passion present in the courtroom.
The ordeal is a human process, but one that is governed by the rule of law.I decided to read Anatomy of a Murder because it was recommended as being the book I just described.
In my opinion the 1958 fictionalized true-crime story ANATOMY OF A MURDER is a good book that made a near-great movie.
(Note that the publisher even issued a later paperback edition with a movie-poster reproduction as its cover.) Travers wrote this book meticulously, but practically all the plot incident wound up in Otto Preminger's equally meticulous 1959 movie with its never before, never again cast (including Jimmy Stewart, Arthur O'Connell, Lee Remick, Ben Gazarra and Eve Arden).
I'm not sorry I read this book, but count ANATOMY OF A MURDER on my small list of books that were made into better movies.
This book really does not need another review but I must comment on the linguistic structure. Traver delivers straightforward literature; articulate, intelligent and expecting the same of his reader. His structures are immaculate, his word choice superb. The dry humor of his character delivers chuckle after chuckle. This book bumps into my top ten. Highly recommended as a stretch for younger readers - a challenge to read, with a dictionary close by. This is the kind of entertainment that is difficult to come by - enjoyable while raising the standard of expectations.
His protagonist, Paul Biegler, is a former prosecutor in private practice who spends much of his time fly fishing.
Her husband, and army lieutenant, gets a gun, goes to the bar owned by the rapist, and shoots and kills him.
His wife hires Biegler to defend him.
Using a temporary insanity defense, the case does not go well at first.
But bar owning rapist Barney Quill had plenty of secrets of his own that come out.
In the end the jury finds Manion innocent by reason of temporary insanity.
Manion and his wife skip town without paying Biegler for his services.
I have mixed feelings about this book. It started out feeling overly stuffed with colorful similes and analogies at the expense of the story but once I got to the courtroom scenes the tension pulled me along. It is clear that the author understands the law and how a trial works. The descriptions of the trial are detailed and could have been tedious but are not. It is a good story with some interesting wrinkles but I don't think I would choose this author again. (I bet the movie is good though.)
I'm so glad I'm studying law at the time when the discovery process exists. Proper review to come eventually.
I got this hardcover 1958 edition for free from the library today! It's so gorgeous! It makes my old soul happy, but my already large TBR very unhappy.
The best sort of courtroom drama, in which you feel a real trial is going on and yet are still gripped. Not a masterpiece, but definitely entertaining drama. It did annoy me about all the loose threads at the ending, but I can see where it could also leave people with pleasant arguments to take on afterwards--What about Mary indeed.
I'd give this book 6 stars if I could. I haven't read many books in this genre other than To Kill a Mockingbird, but if they're all as good as Robert Traver's, I'll be reading more of them soon. The author's personal experiences as both a prosecutor and defense attorney lend it an undeniable air of authenticity. Simply excellent! My question now is, "Amazon/Audible, where's the audiobook version?" I would love to have listened to it.
The book is not always better than the movie. In this case the Jimmy Stewart movie made from this is a distillation of the best of the novel, or put another way, the book is like a deeper immersion into the film. The movie is five stars; the book maybe only 3 1/2, because of some dull passages. Still, well worth reading.
Most of you will probably recognize this book from the famous 1959 movie of the same title, inspired by the book, directed by Otto Preminger, and starring Jimmy Stewart as defense attorney Paul Biegler and George C.
I won't go into detail about the plot in the book (I leave that for you to discover), but the best thing the book does is that it gives Parnell McCarthy, Biegler's drunken partner, a larger role in the case and Traver, harking on his experience as an attorney and a Michigan Supreme Court judge, goes more deeply in to the legal issues surrounding the case, which is interesting for those who have an penchant for legal verbiage.
it was really long and sometimes a little long-winded, but it was ground-breaking for a few reasons: it was a courtroom procedural, it addressed rape in a straight-forward manner; and it used the insanity defense.
the perspective that a woman who is attractive and not with a man is looking for trouble was swiftly and effectively discussed.the concept of insanity as a defense was explored and its pitfalls illustrated.
some of our book group members watched the movie instead of reading the book and the general consensus was that the book addressed the above issues more openly and effectively, while the movie was more inclined to accept popular opinion at the time (1959).can't say the writing was especially good.
Of course, I have seen the movie version with Jimmy Stewart, and will now need to revisit the movie.
That's what makes the practice of law, like prostitution, one of the last of the unpredictable professions-both employ the seductive arts, both try to display their wares to the best advantage, and both must pretend enthusiastically to woo total strangers." This, in essence, sums up the following trial of Frederic Manion.
Traver displays vivid imagery, setting and characters.
This is not your afternoon book, this is a book that will need to be read slowly and savored.
He wrote Anatomy of a Murder based on a 1952 murder case, under the pen name of Robert Traver.In this novel Paul Biegler is a lawyer who was formerly the prosecuting attorney.
He takes on the case of an army lieutenant name Frederic Manion.
I felt like I was sitting in the courtroom watching this case.
I was even more thrilled to learn that it was made into a movie many years ago.
I definately recommend it and recommend that we not judge books before our time because we "think" we might not like it.
I have, however, shelved it under fiction since the only mystery is whether the jury will agree with the defense's argument in the case.
The case is murder charged against a man whose wife was raped by the deceased.
The prosecution tries every means to keep the rape out of the evidence.But this is a wonderful book, especially for those who might be thinking about law school.
Though written/set in the late 1950s, many of the pre-trial work and the court room scenes are realistic even today.
Well written -- obviously by a lawyer.
borrowed from Library of Congress, Library for the Blind.This is one of the kind of classics I love-50’s, noire, and, in this case, written by a lawyer about a case, where you get to see all of his machinations, the court dialogue with his thoughts thrown in, and a case against a man who admits that he killed a bar owner, and which looks impossible for anyone to defend.
But what I particularly liked was his remark that, once he found someone to publish this book, which became a best seller, he submitted the other books he had written and which had been rejected, and they got published word for word too.
It is set in a resort town in the Upper Penninsula of Michigan near Lake Superior, and the protagonist is Paul Bieglar (Polly), a former D.A. who is struggling to find his place in life with regards to his career and personal life.
Frederic admitted killing Barney Quill after Barney brutally raped and beat his wife, Laura.
Since he had already admitted his guilt, Polly's only avenue to pursue is a not guilty by insanity verdict.
Polly is assisted in the case by Parnell, an older attorney who still loves the law.
"A Time to Kill" by John Grisham shares many similarities to this book.
I'm not the fastest reader, and I usually only read before falling to sleep at night, so I had to renew the book beyond the normal 3 weeks available from the library.
Grew to love the characters and hated to see the story end.
Interesting look at a small town attorney thrust into a big murder trial.
Lots of ups-and-downs, and very good, protracted, court room scenes.As a law school grad, you have to love any book that talks about "advance sheets" and doesn't even stop to explain them to the non-lawyer reader.
Several interesting "inside" lawyer things like that.Now I want to see the movie - starring Jimmy Stewart.
I have been wanting to read this book for a couple years, ever since a law school professor that I greatly respected recommended it.
I am so glad that I finally got to read it.
The true intrigue in thsi story is trying to figure out whether the guy truly did it or not.
The best part about it is that it's not until the last few pages that you finally figure it out.
This book is written very well and it gives you the behind the scenes look of what really goes into preparing a murder case for trial.
A pretty realistic portrayal of a trial lawyer's life when on trial. The description of the lawyer after closing arguments, in particular, struck me as spot on. However, this book feeds the unfortunate lay opinion that all defense attorneys do is get bad people acquitted on technicalities. The description of the work of a trial lawyer was great, but the case itself was an extreme outlier. Extreme.
I read this book right before starting law school. This is a great courtroom thriller because not only is the story interesting, but you are included in the formulation of the courtroom strategy. I especially like the surprise twist at the end.I also recommend the movie adaptation, starring Jimmy Stewart, Lee Remick, and George C. Scott. A bonus is the musical score by Duke Ellington, who also makes an appearance. A phenomenal film.
I went to college in Marquette, Michigan where the movie, Anatomy of a Murder, was filmed, but never read the book. So, I was probably going to like it...and I did. Gets a little wordy, especially in the last couple of chapters, but the legal workings were interesting. Maybe I would have given it a three, but being able to identify with the setting and the movie made it more enjoyable.
Great book - my husband received a signed copy of the from his father. Turns out my father-in-law was playmates with the author's daughter, while growing up in Michigan. Inside the book was a news clipping from the local paper announcing that the book would be made into a movie. What a treasure!
