https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9646.Homage_to_Catalonia
I found all this very interesting, but have to admit that the real reason I liked the book so much was for its gritty account of war on the cheap, where guns are poor, marksmanship is worse, and the lack of food, matches and candles is more important than any threat by the enemy.
In spite of the generally poor marksmanship, however, Orwell did manage to get himself shot in the neck, and his first-hand account of what it is like to be wounded is vivid and completely absorbing.
It was the Stalinists who were truly defending the existing capitalist democracy.Obviously, the Stalinsts also deeply appreciated that a Franco government in Spain would not be an ally of the Soviet Union.Therein is where the three-way aspect of this conflict comes in.
Contemporaneously, with the hostilities between the army and the established Republic, the anarchists and labor groups started a true left-wing revolution that ultimately would have done away with the Republic, a capitalist democracy.
Had there been no Franco, the Spanish Civil War would have been a two-way conflict between the left-wing anarchists and labor groups on one side and the capitalist democratic Republic and Stalinists on the other.
Homage To Catalonia, George OrwellHomage to Catalonia is George Orwell's personal account of his experiences and observations in the Spanish Civil War. The first edition was published in the United Kingdom in 1938.
و الكلمة الوحيدة التي لا يملك الغريب إلا أن يتعلمها هي كلمة "مانيانا" أي غدا و معناها الحرفي اليوم التالي. فإن كان بالمستطاع .. يؤجل عمل اليوم إلى المانيانا.أنا شوفت الكلام ده فين قبل كده  يتحدث في أحيان أخرى عن الكرم الأسباني و عن الشعور السوداء و العيون العربية و البشرة السمراء فأتذكر أننا يوما ما كنا هنا.ما الذي يجعل شاب كيوت و ابن ناس كجورج أورويل يترك حياة المدنية و يزج بنفسه في حرب لا ناقة له فيها و لا جمل كبريطاني يعيش في أزهى عصور دولته الإستعمارية.إنها انسانيته التي جعلته يستقيل من وظي
و الكلمة الوحيدة التي لا يملك الغريب إلا أن يتعلمها هي كلمة "مانيانا" أي غدا و معناها الحرفي اليوم التالي.
نعم تمرد أورويل على الوظيفة و على الحياة و على الدولة و هام على وجهه مع المشردين و العمال و المهمشين إلى أن ذهب إلى أسبانيا كمراسل حربي أثناء الحرب الأهلية ثم لم يلبث أن انخرط في هذه الحرب كجندي يدافع عن الإنسانية و عن الحق في العمل و الحياة الكريمة لجميع عمال العالم.يصاب برصاصة في عنقه و لحسن حظه أثرت في حنجرته فقط و لكنه يقول إن كان محظوظا فلم تمر رصاصة في عنقه أصلا.بإسلوب أدبي جميل و رصين يحكي لنا أورويل قصته و قصة الحرب و كـأنك تقرأ رواية لا تفاصيل معارك و خلافات حربية و حزبية.كتاب جميل و جدير بالإقتناء عن ثوار تكالبت عليهم الأمم و قدموا أرواحهم وقودا في حرب اقتربت كثيرا من أن تكون عبثية.أما عن وجهة نظر جورج أورويل فتجدها في كتاب أخر كتقرير صحفي مطول بعد انتهاء الحرب تجده  هنا
About six months later the POUM would be a suppressed political group, branded fascist traitors by the Communists (PSUC), they would be accused of the heretical crime of Trotskyism, and many of the leaders would disappear into jails, never to be heard of again, and the rank and file arrested as fast as they could be found.
3  stars.Now, after many false starts …In my first attempt at reviewing this, I began by saying “This is a first rate source for information … on the Spanish Civil War.”  Wrong!!!  It really is a very poor source of information on the SCW. Because it is on a very personal level, and is mostly seen from a very limited and narrow point of view, this is really an almost useless book for learning anything historically significant about the war.So, let’s start over. Why is this book so famous? The fi
The second “book” contains Orwell’s analysis of the machinations of the Soviet Government and the Communist Party during the war, specifically regarding the Spanish situation in that period.There are two different layouts for the book.
Then, since he was connected to an Anarchist unit, naturally much, if not most, of this information came from Anarchist-leaning men.I don’t remember (and I haven’t the book at hand as I write) if Orwell gives any indication that he was familiar with the decades-old animosity that had existed between Communist, socialist, and at least two different flavors of anarchist political movements in Catalonia.For these reasons, Orwell’s book is little used as a reference for histories of the Spanish Civil war by academics.
When Orwell arrived in Spain to fight on the Republican side with the P.O.U.M. militia, a P.S.U.C. position was pointed out to him and he was told “Those are the Socialists” to which he responded, “Aren’t we all Socialists?” He quickly learned that would be far too easy.
Rather than providing a comprehensive discussion of the Spanish Civil War, Orwell focuses on his personal experiences of fighting at the front (against the Fascists).
being blind to the black marks of their political way (Maos family and persecutions, Stalin's purges, etc.), and this Spanish civil war's thing of Communists fight against the minority sides (propaganda, not enough guns, imprisonment, naming them as friends of Fascists/Trotskyites etc.) is another of those things that was not known, ignored and lied about in Commist presses in other countries, who sometimes also contradicted their own information as the time passed or even in the same article.The war was started by the right, and these small minority left/anarchist groups reacted quicker than the weaker, indecisive, mainly Communist government.
The next part of the narrative covers the internecine conflict in Barcelona in May 1937 which involved street-fighting between Communist groups loyal to Moscow* and anti-Soviet communists, socialists and anarchists.
In the work, he analysed the propaganda against groups like POUM which was published in the communist newspapers at the time, both within Spain and abroad, and explained why he believed the claims against POUM and similar groups were baseless.I know very little about the Spanish Civil War and this memoir, which was first published some nine months after Orwell left Spain, is not in any sense a history of that conflict.
Another *FAQ* I wrote from back in the day in usenet for alt.books.george-orwell  Mr. Orwell has kindly granted me an interview regarding his book,  Homage to Catalonia B: There has been some talk about the Spanish Civil War lately, perhaps inspired by the recent movie  El Laberinto del Fauno . This war was a labyrinth as well: sorting out the various factions and who did what to whom certainly is quite a chore. But first things first. Could you describe your ensemble - you are wearing some un
Another *FAQ* I wrote from back in the day in usenet for alt.books.george-orwell  Mr. Orwell has kindly granted me an interview regarding his book,  Homage to Catalonia B: There has been some talk about the Spanish Civil War lately, perhaps inspired by the recent movie  El Laberinto del Fauno .
I am wearing a thick vest and pants, a flannel shirt, two pull-overs, a woollen jacket, a pigskin jacket, corduroy breeches, puttees, thick socks, boots, a stout trench-coat, a muffler, lined leather gloves, and a woollen cap.
I have the most evil memories of Spain, but I have very few bad memories of Spaniards. I only twice remember even being seriously angry with a Spaniard, and on each occasion, when I look back, I believe I was in the wrong myself. Autobiographies and memoirs are, I think, the best books to read on vacation. Not only are they light, easy, and entertaining, but they’re usually not hard to put down. This is important because, if you’re like me, you may end up spending your whole vacation with your
Specifically, some people seem to come to it expecting to learn about the Spanish Civil War. This is a mistake; Orwell only experienced a sliver of the war, and his understanding of the political situation was limited to the infighting between various leftist groups.
His time in Spain made a deep impression on Orwell; he writes of it in a wistful and nostalgic tone, as if everything that happened occurred in a dreamy, timeless, mist-filled landscape, disconnected from the rest of his life.
Added to this, one gets the impression that Orwell’s command of Spanish was fairly rudimentary, which I think greatly limited his ability to understand the war.
Celebrity Death Match Special: Homage to Catalonia versus 1984No winner declared because match never took place
A wonderful book full of the stink and horror of war. The accounts of the Republic's assaults on the Falange, save for one instance, are pitiful and sickening. Descriptions, too, of Madrid during the conflict the likes of which I have not come across anywhere else. Exquisite and appalling. Read concurrently with Hugh Thomas' The Spanish Civil War.
I found this memoir-like book surprisingly interesting and readable in terms of his direct experience in the Spanish Civil War. I think George Orwell didn't try to be a hero there since he himself was gunned down by a shot through his throat one morning.
He simply wrote, "The whole experience of being hit by a bullet is very interesting and I think it is worth describing in detail" (Chapter X, pp.
Therefore, while reading his lively words, it's like you're in the war yourself and thus we can't help admiring how he narrated his thought & ideas fearlessly.
As important as Animal Farm and 1984 are, Orwell was probably a better non-fiction writer than a fiction writer.
You almost have to read his descriptions of the Spanish people in this book to truly appreciate the coldness of 1984's characters.
Dealing with real people and real struggle he wrote his truly most memorable passages - such as why he was disappointed that his time in combat wasn't bloodier.
His fiction is about ideals, but this non-fiction on a real warm, is about humanity.
Possibly my favourite book ever. I couldn't put it down. This will not be the case for everyone but as I have always had an interest in the Spanish civil war I found Orwell's account brilliant and much better than regular Spanish civil war books. Orwell conveys with great clarity the boredom, confusion, and lies of the Spanish civil war. I would recommend anybody who wants to learn about the Spanish civil war (an extremely complex subject) to first look to this book.
لطالما كانت الحرب الأهلية الإسبانية موضوعاً محيراً بالنسبة لي كنت أضعها دائماً ضمن خانة المواضيع الم
While I am not going to go into too much detail on the book (since it is recommended that you read it yourself), I will try to sum-up this narrative based on the three themes in the best way possible.Ideology I mainly want to talk about the political groups on the left since most of this story deals with the events leading up to, through and after the Barcelona May Days of 1937 which resulted in the purge/suppression of the leftist group Orwell was fighting with.
https://cronicasdemagrat.com/2016/05/...Maravillosa crónica cargada de duras reflexiones pero también de mucha ironía y humor.
El relato de Orwell es muy sesgado y particular, narra su punto de vista sobre los meses que pasó en Cataluña y Aragón, no es en absoluto un tratado de Historia sino que todo lo conocemos desde su opinión...
Me han gustado muchas cosas de este libro, se me ha encogido el corazón en algunos puntos pero también he llegado a reírme de verdad (sobretodo con algunas reflexiones sobre nuestro caracter "típico español").
George Orwell struck me as an extremely honest and sincere recorder of his war experiences in Spain in 1937.
This is what he writes on the last page of his account after he succeeded to escape to France from Spain, seriously wounded and a wanted man.
Curiously enough the whole experience has left me with not less but more belief in the decency of human beings.” I think it is safe to say that, without his Spanish civil war experiences, George Orwell would never have written ‘Animal Farm’ or ‘1984’.
An exceptional man!
"When we went on leave I had been a hundred and fifteen days in the line, and at the time this period seemed to me to have been one of the most futile of my whole life.
But now that I can see this period in perspective I do not altogether regret it.
I wish, indeed, that I could have served the Spanish Government a little more effectively; but from a personal point of view -- from the point of my own development -- those first three or four months that I spent in the line were less futile than I then thought.
The central narrative of Homage to Catalonia was like glimpsing a platonic ideal of non-fiction reportage: the definitive, the default - which must be because Orwell has become an (the?) exemplar of good English style, filtered into countless other things I've read, from books to below-the-line newspaper comments.
I suppose the way I keep referring to students reflect my feelings that this is a book that should have been read earlier in life.
Orwell left England in 1936 and spend six months fighting fascism in Spain - actually fighting fascism, like, throwing grenades and living in trenches, and being shot at, and crawling across 'no man's land' in the mud.
The book, like his 'Road to Wigan Pier', is a collection of Orwell's observations told in his always clear, frank and honest style, which reflect his admirable morals, common decency and pragmatic political views.
In case I have not said this somewhere earlier in the book I will say it now: beware of my partisanship, my mistakes of fact and the distortion inevitable caused by my having seen only one corner of events.

Homage to Catalonia, by George Orwell, is the authors account of the Spanish Civil War, as a participant for the POUM forces - a Republican aligned militant group.
He also ties in the history of the bigger picture politics, as he sees it, and goes through the civil strife within the Republican forces, and the competing factions within the movement.
This book brilliantly captures the spirit of the conflict, and gives a good account of why things failed for Republican Spain over time.
This is George Orwell's vivid account of his six-month (from December 1936 to June 1937) direct involvement in the Spanish Civil War. Other than recounting action-packed combative episodes on the war frontier and treacherous street-fighting scenes in Barcelona, the author also gives a clear-eyed analysis of the mind-boggling multi-faction political strife that prevailed.
He also explains candidly why he thought that the surreptitious manoeuvres of the capitalistic European powers were at least part of the cause for the predictable failure of the Spanish democratic revolution.This factual non-fiction account reads much like gripping fiction, thanks to Orwell's fluid style of writing.
درود بر کاتالونیا تشریح شخصی از تجارب و مشاهدات روزنامه نگار سیاسی و رمان نویس جورج اورول از جنگ داخلی اسپانیا است. چاپ اول در سال 1938 منتشر شد.
The book is instead about his own personal experiences - his time fighting on the Aragon front (Huesca, the Alcubierre Ridge and Monte Oscuro),his participation in the Barcelona street-fighting(May 1937) caused by internecine party conflicts, his return to the front where he was shot in the throat by a sniper and finally his hurried escape from Spain, thoroughly disillusioned with what he had seen and experienced and party politics in general.
Orwell makes an attempt to collect all discussion of party politics in one separate chapter (in some books an appendix).
Orwell's memoir of his service fighting in leftist militia in the Spanish Civil War. "A comic opera with an occasional death." Dangers of extremist politics. Great story telling. It's all here.
"Çarpışıp da yenilmenin, hiç savaşmamaktan daha iyi sonuç verdiği örnekler vardır."(s.175)
