https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/523071.Wallflower_at_the_Orgy
Wanting a 'reading -palate - cleanse' ....from having recently read a delicious novel....."The Hearts Invisible Furies", by John Boyne- a long involved 600 page read.....I reached for a thin book by the delightful and funny-(sadly deceased), Nora Ephron.
40 years from her writings -from her journalism, feminism, and being a woman: - she was funny - kind - a great friend to her friends - and brilliant.
I enjoyed a few of the essays in it - others less so-- but I miss this woman - the gifts she offered the world....The best thing about this book...'after' reading - and seeing much more developed work of hers - was her raw talent.
While I can't say I was particularly interested in the articles' subjects, there's no denying the wit of the writing. Ephron's later work resonates with me more, but this was worth my time. If you like her, you'll enjoy dipping in and out of this collection.
I like Nora Ephron.In spite of the comical title, Wallflower at the Orgy is not the least bit funny.
What Wallflower at the Orgy IS-is a collection of articles Nora Ephron wrote for Glamour magazine...in the sixties and seventies.
Not something I would recommend...to anyone-who doesn't remember adoringly the pop culture of the sixties and seventies in vivid detail.To be fair though, ever picked up an even three year old fashion magazine?
Outside of appreciating the layout of the fashion photography, its contents have most likely been completely fossilized in layers of irrelevance...These articles by Nora Ephron (some of them) are fifty years old...fifty!!!My lack of literary selectiveness should in no way be taken as an insult to Ms. Ephron's skill set.;)
More mannered and dated than Crazy Salad, for me her standout nonfiction collection (I've heard Scribble Scribble highly praised, but it's been out of print for decades, used copies are really expensive, and the recent Kindle "omnibus" is incomplete).
Altho the book is supposedly at least somewhat in defense of kitsch, there's no philosophical framework other than "I like fashion and fripperies," which is fine, but kind of shallow given Ephron's other, amazing essays on the Pillsbury Bake-Off and FDS.
In fine: read Crazy Salad instead, which is much better on kitsch, and has historical, not topical, pieces on feminism and women and trashy books, and is much much funnier to boot.
Sometime last year, I read Nora Ephron's fantastic book Crazy Salad, which was a collection of columns she had written in the 1970s for various magazines.
After finishing Crazy Salad, I went on to read Scribble Scribble (collections of her columns about the media), I Feel Bad About My Neck (more recent book; focusing primarily on aging) and then this one, which is a collection of various magazine articles she wrote mostly in the late 1960s.
These collections of essays focus primarily on her journalistic stories (hence the title ...
Wallflower at the Orgy was given the title because Nora Ephron said that she is always standing on the side taking notes while others are having fun.This book is basically a compilation of magazine articles from 1968, 69, 70 about popular culture at the time.Nora Ephron is widely known for the screenplays of Sleepless in Seattle, You've Got Mail, and When Harry Met Sally.
I wish that this had been more of the book.I think that this book was probably more relevant in the 70s and 80s.My favorite chapters were: the make over article, the Jacqueline Susann/Valley of the Dolls author, the Arthur Frommer travel book, the Mike Nichols chapter.
Her articles, all originally published in magazines in 1968 or 1969, are all interesting, particularly the looks at Women's Wear Daily when it was still the bitchy record of the Ladies Who Lunch, before it atrophied into WWD, at the bloviating Ayn Rand, and at the rise of men's fashion with Bill Blass.
In the case of "The Man in the Bill Blass Suit," that article gives the modern reader a disorienting view of a time when it was considered daring to hint that a magazine subject was gay.It saddens me to think that Ephron, who died last year, will never pen another astute and amusing observation on life, the media or popular culture.
I suppose in part because of the author’s recent death, I find it difficult to say anything bad about Wallflower at the Orgy, which was a short and predictable collection of classic Ephron ruminations—on fashion, on people, on New York, etc.
And an essay on The Love Machine, a 1960s novel about the sadistic sexual escapades of a TV executive, is described by Ephron as poorly written but wildly popular due to its capitalizing on women’s secret desire for sexual domination.

Ephron, of course, has a fantastic writing style, but mostly what I loved was he glimpse into magazines of the late 60s and early 70s.
I was particularly amused by the article about Erich Segal, the author of Love Story, which was a huge bestseller (and movie!), but today is barely a blip on the pop culture radar.
In the article, Segal talks about how he's comparable to some of the great authors and his lasting legacy.
I'm only aware of Love Story because, for some reason, MAD parodied it in the late 80s or early 90s.
I love Nora Ephron and the pieces collected here are a great introduction to her style. But it is WAY too short to be any kind of meaningful collection.
Nora Ephron is a fine writer.
She does say early on that she's a succinct writer, and then she goes to ramble on more than needed (IMHO) in her essays.
The topics were dated.
I have no idea who he is; he supposedly sang and wrote poetry back in the 1960s as far as I could tell based on the essay.
Well, he either had a career that ended in the 1960s or early 1970s, or I live under a rock.
Still, she's a very good writer.
It's not her fault that I had little interest in the topics that she wrote about.
This is a collection of Ephron's writings from the late 60s. Unfortunately, I just can't relate to these articles the way I could to her memoirs, which I really enjoyed. I think readers who remember this period in time will be able to appreciate what she had to say about contemporary things while they were happening. Having just been born in the late 60s I didn't care so much about men's fashion and Erich Segal's 'Love Story' and felt the whole collection lacked what, grew to be, her signature sharp wit.
Audiobook reader ok.I picked up the cd because I wanted something short and non-fiction to listen too.Even though I clearly remember the 70's (well mostly except when I was high which I admit was a lot) this book seemed a bit dated because the worlds and people Ephron writes about were so far from mine at the time.
So it was a bit of a time capsule for things I missed.The essays include many things I and friends would have disparaged as being part of the "straight" world as applied to point of view rather than gender preferences.
I've got to be quite honest: I wasn't really interested in any of the essay topics within this book.
Well, maybe a few.
That being said, I really enjoy Ephron's writing style and sense of humor.
As all of these essays are from the 1960s, this was also a fascinating look at pop culture from fifty years ago.
In some ways it feels a lot more recent than that, and in other ways it seems like another world.
I kind of wish I'd read it an essay at a time instead of all at once, and I wouldn't pick it up again, but it reminded me why I like Ephron's writing.
When I read I Feel Bad About My Neck, it was my first introduction into any of Nora Ephron’s literary works and I immediately fell in love.
While it still showcased her simple yet witty prose in an intelligent yet unpretentious style, there was one simple, glaring difference between Wallflower and Neck: Not Enough Nora.
But regardless of this revelation, I will continue to seek out some of her other works that hopefully offer a bigger slice of the author, but if you fell in love with Neck as I did, you may be in for a disappointment with Wallflower.
Here's the thing: Nora Ephron is a fun writer to read. That said, this is a collection of essays from the late 1960s and 1970s. About random then-famous people like Bill Blass. So, it was interesting in a historical pop culture kind of way, and gave me a better impression of what it was like to live in the decade leading up to my appearance on this earth. But it was not information I would generally seek out.
Little else more greatly supports that notion than a story from the introduction of "Wallflower at the Orgy", about an article on Helen Gurley Brown that Ephron's wrote in 1970, because of how it could be taken from any feminist blog you came across in 2016: One night not too long ago I was on a radio show .
"I can't believe we're talking about Helen Gurley Brown," he said, "when there's a war going on in Vietnam." Well, I care that there's a war in Indochina, and I demonstrate against it; and I care that there's a women's liberation movement, and I demonstrate for it.
I was drawn to this book because I like Nora Ephron's witty, self-deprecating style and also because one of the articles deals at length with the "foodie" scene in the 1960s, (in which I'm very interested) but which seems a world away now and featured such luminaries as Julia Child, James Beard, Judith Jones and others.
Renowned as a talented journalist and story teller, Nora Ephron has written much better stuff than this.
For that reason, they may have had a good deal more impact and provided refreshing insights into the various worlds she describes at the time they were published, but they just haven't weathered well.
But this one is great and she talks about working at the NY Post and how the editors changed her writing drastically.
The article about Mike Nichols is terrific and you want to be his friend even though he seems prickly and semi-scary.
She writes with candor, duh, and says great things like (and this is horribly paraphrased) "no I don't want to go to an orgy--it'll be just like a 7th grade dance, only instead of ignoring me in my dress, they'll be ignoring my naked, writhing body."
I can't believe it's taken me so long to get around to reading Nora Ephron's essays, but I'm so glad I finally did. Wallflower at the Orgy is a brilliant collection of Ephron's work - her profiles of Helen Gurley Brown and WWD are the standout pieces - and highlight not just how good she was at picking up on the mood and cultural trends in a time and place, but also all the insecurities and doubts her characters have.
This collection of articles and interviews from the 1960s perfectly captures the journalistic mood of the period and they are a fun read. I lived through the period -- it may not appeal to a younger generation.
As usual, witty and deliciously written.But God what we were obsessed with back then!!!A quite unwelcome look in the rearview mirror…
It makes me so sad that this is the last Nora Ephron book that exists for me to read. I love and miss her voice. Nora forever!
I will ALWAYS give Nora Ephron five stars.
I want to BE Nora Ephron.
I have in fact started a volume of essays that I want to be Nora Ephron-esque.
But let's talk about Ms. Ephron.When I became hopelessly intrigued and immersed in Ms. Ephron's ability to be smart, informative and incomparably witty, I knew there was only one thing to do.
Which is why I am reading a collection of essays from 1970 in 2018.
Ms. Ephron lives by the rule that her mother lived by: Everything is copy.
Wallflower at the Orgy's various topics include Gourmet Food, Helen Gurley Brown, the pet peeves of Ayn Rand (author of The Fountainhead), a makeover to which Nora Ephron committed herself in order to write an article about it, men and women's fashion, Rod McKuen's poetry and Erich Segal's Love Story, Jacqueline Susann's books: The Love Machine/Valley of the Dolls/Every Night, Josephine!
There Is a River is probably the best of the Cayce books.
I would recommend this book to readers who prefer short compositions rather than longer writings such as novels.,
The problem is that these essays were written in the late 60's, early 70's, which isn't necessarily problematic, but the cultural references could go over my head: "A rhinestone in a trash can and the Love Machine phenomenon of J.
Susann," for example.
J. Susann?
Then, there was a long interview at the end with Mike Nichols that I started but finally had to skip because the Q&A format is so boring.
Look, the book is about 190 pages, and it took me a week to get through: that's a ridiculously long time for me for a book of this length.
(she outlined in the writings)Interesting her position was JFK did not hit on her bc of she was Jewish ??Ephron then goes on to write extensively about how (her words writing not mine) physically unattractive she is ??Seems she wants it both ways ??
she had some interesting takes on HGBrown -- she was suppose to be this big feminist icon - but she was written up (by Ephron) as a non-stop cry baby ??a lot of ambiguity Reading it nearly 40 years later - it seems anti-feminist and HEAVILY self loathing
But this book is a collection of essays she wrote early in her career, which was before I was born.
I felt like I was reading about a time that I know nothing about, so I had no context in which to place the events/people that she was discussing.
I know who Mike Nichols is, but her interview with him was very long and rambling.
She talks about many NY socialites of that time, only a few of which I had a vague notion of.
This was a book that I was racing through just to get finished.
This collection of articles written by Ephron when she was a journalist provides a view interesting window into the arts (mostly) in the very early 70s.
It gets 3 stars because it's so dated.
You might need to know a little bit about the era to really appreciate the insights.
You should also know who Mike Nichols was because two of the articles are about him.
(Ex. the gushy article about Catch-22 is particularly fascinating as long as you know it was Nichols's complete FLOP follow-up to The Graduate.) There are moments of Ephron's brilliant, dry wit but this is not her typical observational humor.
