https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3320520-the-3-mistakes-of-my-life
After reading this book I realized that this was fourth mistake of my life. Boring as Hell. Its a complete waste of time (and money if you buy one).
There's too much of unnecessary emotion, unrealistic action and what's more we are supposed to believe that the book is based on a real story.
The book is so contrived, melodramatic, unoriginal and boring that it reminded me of the bollywood flicks.
This book is supposed to inspire the youngistan's of Hindustan.
If ever a day comes when i have to draw inspiration from Mr.Bhagat's books,then God save me.
Against my better Judgement, borrowing a Chetan Bhagat's  book from my friend on his insistence.2.
Reading the book.3.
No doubt that his debut was gripping and the movie a phenomenal one.
Perhaps the best book of the author.The cricket backdrop amalgamated with the riots and the flurry of emotions pulsating between the trio of friends - well, yes it is quite a book!The character sketchup was lucid and the story moves with a great pace.Ali is someone that ignites the melodramatic emotion needed to make it a hit.The love affair like there always are.
(But that did disappoint on more than one level).Still I will remember this as a book and not as a script.2+1 extra star for the desi masala rendered in a gripping manner!
বাংলাদেশীদের ভেতর একধরণের ভারতবিদবেষ আছে, যেটি অনেক সময়ই ‘দেশপরেম’ এর মাতরা নিরধারক হয়ে দাঁড়ায়। ‘ভারতীয় পণয বরজন করুন’ এখানে বেশ পৌনঃপুনিক একটি শলোগান। পরায় ২৫০০ বছর আগের সেই মৌরয-গুপত সামরাজযের শাসনকাল থেকে শুরু করে ২০১৪ সালের আজকের বাংলাদেশ-ভারত; দুটি অঞচলই ভৌগোলিক ভাবে এখনও একে অপরের গায়ে গা ঠেকিয়ে অবসথান করছে। এত লমবা সময় ধরে পাশাপাশি সহাবসথানের পরও কেন এ দু’ অঞচলের মানুষের ভেতর পারসপারিক বিদবেষ কাজ করে? কারণটা সমভবত চিরাচরিত ভারতের ধীরে ধীরে ‘বেয়াড়া রকম আধুনিক’ ভারতে পরিণত হয়ে যাওয়া। ভারতের
বইটিতে অনেক ঘটনাই এসেছে, তবে আমার ধারণা চেতন ভগত মূলত ভারতে ধর্মীয় উন্মাদনার ভয়ঙ্কর দিকটি দেখাতে চেয়েছেন। ‘ক্রিকেট ঈশ্বর’ শচীন টেন্ডুল্কারের দেশ ভারত, ক্রিকেট যেখানে আরেকটি ধর্মই প্রায়, সেখানেও হিন্দু-মুসলিম ধর্মের পার্থক্য অন্য আর সব হিসেব নিকেশকেই এলোমেলো করে দিতে পারে। সুপ্তভাবে ক্রিকেট-উন্মাদনার চেয়ে ধর্মীয় উন্মাদনাই আসলে অনেক বেশী। পার্শ্ববর্তী দেশ হয়ে আমাদের চেয়ে ভালো সেটি আর কে বুঝবে?
Chetan Bhagat is back with his 3rd book, "The 3 Mistakes of My Life".
The first book, "Five Point Someone" was pretty impressive, or so it seemed to me, owing to the fact that I am in the process of becoming an engineer (so much for the illusion!).But I am sorry to say that this one disappoints me, even more than "One Night @ the Call Center".
Bhagat makes it a point to include a love-making scene in each of his books.
This book virtually screams for reader attention by touching upon all the recent happenings - the Gujarat riots, the 9/11 incident, the Bhuj earthquake and of course the all important topic of cricket.
I have just finished reading the book, and am still overwhelmed by it.
I love Chetan Bhagat's ability to connect with his reader, his simple language flow just grips you...
yeah, there sure are some limitations, but highly ignorable.
I found his choice of women to be of just one type...
the "sweet, simple and pretty, salwar kameez clad" kinds..
Neha of Five Point Someone and Vidya of this book are exactly similar.
The hero is always in a group of 3 friends...
the thinking pattern somehow remains the same.One more point I would like to add.
One of the most disappointing authors and of course, the book is trash. I just do not like Chetan Bhagat's writing.The lesser said, the better.
The 3 Mistakes of MY Life:Buying Chetan Bhagat's trashy bookStarting Chetan Bhagat's trashy bookFinishing Chetan Bhagat's trashy bookThis is a terrible terrible piece of writing.
Books beginning are great, character introduction is awesome but, story is funny and seems to be good but the end is so pathetic and senseless that it leads nowhere and ruins the whole interest.As far as this book is concerned I think it was a waste of money for me.
I always heard good Chetan Bhagat but I have not been impressed by any one of his books and 3 Mistakes of My Life is the worst of them all.
For a writer who has written his 3rd book it is really pity on him to write a book like this.
Apparently IIT does _not_ teach you how to write a book.
Well, let's not mess with the thing.The biggest mistake of Chetan Bhagat: he is a loser.Bad plot, poorly developed characters, unpredictable moods, and that thing I think was very exaggerated: romance, idiotic things that rule the plot, crappy writing, and what can you say: friends cheating on friends.Look, I am just 14, so I don't have want to say about the things written in this, what do I say, trash.
I am not interested in knowing how that half headed girl looked, what she wore that day, how her hair smelt, how she had matched her dress with purple teardrop pendant and matching earrings.
The former especially works as an excellent satire on the education system I thought.Chetan's third book, the just-launched Three Mistakes Of My Life starts off in the same effective manner as his earlier two books, but unlike the other two, this one starts to appear toofar-fetched towards the middle and then just irrevocably falls apart in the end.The story recounts the life of three youths, Omi, Ishaan and Govind trying to make a life staying in small-town Gujarat.
And that's true of his latest book too.Moving on, Ishan takes a great liking to one of the local Muslim boys, Ali with a 'magical' ability to smash the ball for a six each time.
Please avoid if you like to read good book or even a gud time pass.
I feel Chetan is highly overrated.
He has gone steadily downhill from FPS.
He is a bad writer.
A very bad book.
I agree with most of you completely about Chetan.
But to tell you the truth i really liked and enjoyed FPS.
But he went steadily downhill after that.
He is one book wonder as i see it.
Also he is so lucky that movies based on his books turn out very good like three idiots, kai po che and two states (hello was a disaster).
Chetan Bhagat's style of writing in this story is such that you never really understand what the "bottom line" is of the story until towards the end.
This may be his most compelling story because of the way it's written, due to the fact that by the time the actual STORY begins, you know so much about the characters that they almost feel like family.
You care about what happens to them and THAT is what makes this book so great.
The characters are realistic, the story is realistic and, most importantly, Mr. Bhagat's style of writing is captivating.
Once I began reading, I did not put the book down until I had absolutely finished it.
I wonder why I read CB's novel! But alas, this was there in my list and I wanted to read a light book. Finished it in a few hours, what a crap movie this would make! Too many characters, none with a strong one! Tsk tsk!
Reading this book was mistake of my life.
The characters, story lines and most importantly the author has developed with all books in the series.
I liked this book equally as much as I miss the way FPS was written.
A story handled brilliantly and written in signature style of the author which doesn’t allow one to keep the book aside unless you don’t read it till the last word.
So what if it’s not as funny as the earlier two books written by him, but still its special in its own way and I’m sure readers would surely agree.
As with the other 2 books, Chetan comes across really well in the way he puts across what you do everyday - like what a typical 20 something would think when he's asked to stay for dinner at a friend's or how an 8yr old would behave in a cricket shop.
And as with FPS and ONAACC, Chetan scores in his one-liners ("Indian mothers have 2 tasks - make children eat more & study more", "why hadn't evolution figured out that men liked pretty women better and turned them all out that way?", "Girls talk in circles.
My least fav CB book!A big letdown after 1 night at the Call center!Book had some highlights though,I after all lived through many events in this book myself like 2001 and 2002,that Oz India series and all.But I dunno,I just didn't like the storyline that much!Romance didn't click much either.That tour of Australia was completely out of place and not at all necessary!Main character,a typical Gujarat Bania stereotype was okay,not great thoGirl was okay too,I liked the heroines in his 1st 2 novels much better and 2 states was the best everPlot was so sooverall just 1 star
WARNING:this entire review is a rant in disguise and an elegy to the precious moments I lost while r
I'm not a major fan of Chetan Bhagat, but I had to read this book because there's a movie being made, based on it.
(Hopefully, I'll like the movie, Kai Po Che, better - the casting is perfect going by early reports)This story has three very distinct characters, perhaps a little unidimensional (Govind is the businessman type, Omi is the god fearing type and Ish is the cricket-crazy one).
Would have loved the book to have been a little longer.But yes, there are insights that I loved, but not enough to make me pick up another Bhagat.
Tuy nhiên cái "sai lầm" này có thể được gọi tên là một "thiếu sót" thôi, kiểu như tỉ phú Warren Buffett đã đưa ra phương châm "Đừng bao giờ cho hết tất cả số trứng vào một giỏ", làm gì cũng phải tính toán khôn ngoan cho những bất trắc từ trên trời rơi xuống.Sai lầm thứ 2: Đối với tui, đây có thể là 1 sai lầm, lại có thể không.
Then I don't really remember what happens cause it isn't too significant but he falls hard for his best friend's sister whom he tutors.
So I guess this kid also got involved in the religious riot and then in the middle of all that crisis, the best friend finds out about his sister and the serpent.
*sighs* And then I guess things go all happy and mushy in the end cause the best friend forgives him and realizes that her sister couldn't have been trusted with anyone much better.
//I reviewed this book on my very old website, and this is copied from there.Even after all my friends told me not to, I decided against them and bought "The Three Mistakes Of My Life" by Chetan Bhagat, author turned scriptwriter.
the book seems to be the author's biggest mistake.
Anyways, I continue to read it, and marvel the way the number 3 crops up again and again in the book: 3 friends, 3 mistakes, 3 things: cricket, politics, and religion, and 3 real incidences.
Its just the story of one boy, sometimes interesting, but mostly you would bang your head to the book, and think: nobody would act that way.
Beautiful story.
This book is quite similar to Revolution 2020.
Govind is so perceptive and focused.
Ish has a intrepid personality though he is a bit fierce occasionally.But I wish he was a bit more considerate about their future.Omi was a good friend regardless of his vapid behavior.
What happened with Omi was despairing.
His tragic demise was unexpected.
Therewithal everything they did to support Ali was fascinating.
To have a selfless mentor like Ish is a blessing.
Didn't enjoy the comments/arguments regarding Hinduism and Islam.
Ending was good :)
First book of Chetan Bhagat's which I felt boring...The prologue of the book was so interesting and I couldn't control from completing the book in 2 days (ya, it is a fast read for me).. But after reading this book, I felt the fourth mistake is me reading this book. It was so boring. But, the book was not so bad. The story had more twists then any B-grade Bollywood movie..Not so up to Chetan's level (ya, he has some level in my view)...
যখন জানলাম “থরি ইডিয়টস” মুভির কাহিনী চেতন ভগতের বই থেকে নেয়া হয়েছে, তখন থেকেই তার বইএর পরতি আলাদা শরদধা চলে আসে আমার।এটাই আমার পড়া তার পরথম বই। বইটা ভাল হবে এরকম একটা একসপেকটেশন ছিল, কিনতু এত ভাল হবে তা জানা ছিল না।
যখন জানলাম “থ্রি ইডিয়টস” মুভির কাহিনী চেতন ভগতের বই থেকে নেয়া হয়েছে, তখন থেকেই তার বইএর প্রতি আলাদা শ্রদ্ধা চলে আসে আমার।এটাই আমার পড়া তার প্রথম বই। বইটা ভাল হবে এরকম একটা এক্সপেকটেশন ছিল, কিন্তু এত ভাল হবে তা জানা ছিল না।
I have read five point someone.It was a ok type.But this book is total waste of time.I don't know about Chetan, but reading this book was definitely the biggest mistake of my my life.
Việt Nam có ai chơi môn này đâu.Những phần còn lại và sự hài hước - có khá nhiều sự hài hước - cái này thì xài được.Người viết câu chuyện này có khả năng chọc cười một cách tự nhiên.
Anh trai kết nghĩa thực ra nghĩa là 'anh có thể trò chuyện với tôi, nhưng đừng bao giờ nghĩ linh tinh về bất cứ điều gì khác'."Chỗ kia thay "Việt Nam" cho "Ấn Độ" chắc cũng khả dụng đấy, hehe.Thay vì cảm giác xa vời như ở trên trời, nó là dạng biểu đạt sẽ tạo ra sự gần gũi thoải mái như kiểu ngồi chuyện phiếm với mấy đứa bạn thân vậy.
After reading the previous reviews, I understood a fact that Goodreaders don't like CB more than 2 stars.Hahaha, it's a true fact.I justify 3 stars for this book in the following manner.1st star - I liked the characters of 3 protagonists and their nature, behavior.2nd star - The story, the plot, the title and the climax.3rd star - It's better than the rest of his titles.The movie was good, I watched the movie solely for the reason I liked this book.It could have got better by cutting the useless scene with Ishan's sister.
