https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1298671.South_by_Java_Head
Quite enjoyed this part sea faring adventure set during the second world war.
A hand full of "survivors" battle insurmountable odds against the might of the Japanese when fleeing the fall of Singapore.I enjoyed trying to second guess the motives of many of the characters and was never quite sure who might very well turn out to be the "bad guy".
It seemed to be a "jumpy" delivery in parts.Regardless, I did enjoy the novel and felt that for an action filled novel you really can't go past MacLean in this genre.
An Alistair MacLean story I'd not read previously. Excellent, MacLean at his very best. From the first moment, it was a tense, thrilling adventure; a group of British men and women escaping from Singapore during WWII in the face of the Japanese invasion. Going from threat to threat, displaying understated heroism and growth, the characters are interesting and well-presented. I liked the surprises and twists and ultimately the whole story. Excellent.
From there, it was back to the third person for his next four books, all relative classics including the excellent Ice Station Zebra and Where Eagles Dare, along with his only sequel and last World War II story, Force 10 From Navarone.So Java Head is pretty early MacLean, and it shows.
The basic construct is classic MacLean and similar to his later Night Without End (a random group of characters forced together by unusual circumstances - and there's a killer in their midst!), along with some of his typical if confusing good-guy-pretending-to-be-bad-guy-pretending-to-be-good-guy (aka "WTF?") twists deep in the third act.I've somehow been rereading a lot of MacLean lately - mostly from his "middle period" - and so with no set narrator here it took me a full third of the book to figure out just who the hero was, which was actually kind of nice for a change.
Its interesting to investigate MacLean's early novels to see the original formulation of all the hackneyed narrative conventions and action-cliches that he came to rely on later in his career.
That's the main thing I got out of this novel.MacLean is definitely one of the oddest of the successful thriller writers to come out of WWII.
Strange choice of material for MacLean here, in that he uses rather mundane military forces as the antagonists instead of the obviously fictitious and cozily-abstract 'elite, crack, units' he would always invent later.
They're not present in the later MacLean career...
The book opens in Singapore as Japanese troops are about to overrun it in 1942.
Soon enough they are extracted by a mysterious Dutchman and a crew of cutthroats, and not too long after that, they are all picked up by a British merchant marine oil tanker.From then on out, it's one narrow escape after another as they dodge Japanese planes, ships, and submarines, trying desperately to make it to Allied lands.
However there's more than a bit of the Agatha Christie mystery to it all, with colorful characters all trapped together, some who might not be whom they appear to be, secret motives, etc...
Saw this book on the library shelf, and was overcome by a wave of nostalgia!! Remembered reading these books during my schooldays, and giving them more attention than my school books! MacLean didn't disappoint, and I ended up sitting up late into the night finishing the book in one sitting!! He is truly the master of this genre. I don't know if it is nostalgia or the style of writing, but later year thrillers like the Ludlum's and the Wilbur Smith's just don't have the same effect.
On the night of February 14, 1942, Singapore has been bombed so thoroughly by the Japanese that little survives.
More importantly, little in the way of transport out of Singapore—and transport is what Brigadier Farnholme urgently needs, because after many months of trying, Farnholme has finally managed to obtain the detailed plans for the Japanese invasion of Northern Australia.
Farnholme has to get out of Singapore, to Allied territory, to get the papers to London.
Thus begins South by Java Head, with Farnholme, in disguise as a drunken old sot trying to escape with a Gladstone bag full of industrial diamonds.
MacLean has an infuriating habit of writing military commanders who perpetually endanger their soldiers, their missions, and other innocents through an inexplicable refusal to kill enemy combatants.
In "Where Eagles Dare," the supposedly heroic mission leader makes a ridiculous and irrelevant effort to arrest a pair of Nazis in Germany during wartime and bring them home to face a trial--yes, a trial--instead of just shooting the stinking Nazis like any good soldier would do.
If you know MacLean, then the result is predictable: there's no trial, because the pirates wind up dead en route, but only after taking a bunch of innocents with them.
A standard MacLean novel with the usual twists and turns in the plot.
Not one of MacLean's best readable enough.
The book tempted me because it was set in Singapore during the period of the Japanese invasion in World War Two. I believed it might give some flavor of Singapore and Southeast Asia during the period.
Well, it didn't because the plot was very much a MacLean plot with action, intrigue and a little bit of history thrown in for good measure.
Recommended for MacLean fans or if you've nothing better to do.
The author does have many better titles for those wishing to taste his style of prose.
Read this a long time ago but still remember it as a thrilling adventure of war at sea and survival against the odds.It is Alistair MacLean's best book for me.
This story of action, suspense and survival by the master of the genre didn't disappoint me, for most part, incomprehensible nautical terms and a seemingly hurried ending apart...
Filled with purple prose, cliched feelings, and static characters, South By Java Head nevertheless is meticulously plotted and overflowing with over the top action scenes.
I doubt the same target audience today could deal with the book.
There is the feel occasionally that South By Java Head veers close to being a romance novel.
Written in 1957, this novel about World War II, the Fall of Singapore, and a motley group of survivors who survive torpedo attacks, starvation at sea, and chases through jungles actually works at another level.
It's a Cold War novel.
I picked South by Java Head since my knowledge on the Pacific War isn't all that high (The edition I purchased was also rather inexpensive).Coming to the plot, retired Brigadier Foster Farnholme is at Singapore and he is desperate to leave.
The plot is centred on John Nicolson along with a romantic sub-plot between Nicolson and a nurse.When I was suggested Alistair MacLean, I was told to expect a thrilling adventure, an element of suspense, traitors and double-agents and of course, protagonists surviving beating all the odds.
I read this first when I was a boy and enjoyed it.Now I see some of the flaws, the unbelievable endurance of some of the characters and the casual racism.Enjoyed it.
As to how many Japanese actually followed this horrific course is not clear and of course atrocities imprint themselves in the mind and hearts of the people and history itself.February, 1942: Singapore lies burning and shattered, defenceless before the conquering hordes of the Japanese Army, as the last boat slips out of the harbour into the South China Sea. On board are a desperate group of people, some with a secret to guard, some willing to kill to keep that secret safe.
Dutch planter, Van Effen, who turned out to be a german spy named Von something was after two things diamonds(worth 2m something and a Japanese invasion plan of Australia with photos that he knew the Englishman, Farnholme had on him.
I first read this more than 30 years ago as a teenager and enjoyed it as much as - if not more than - I did back then, possibly because I have a greater understanding of the war in the Pacific now.
But I hasten to add that that’s not a requirement for the book; it just puts it more into context.The narrative whistles along at a cracking pace yet there is no skimping on the descriptions of various action sequences, particularly on the sea-bound elements where MacLean is at his best (no surprise there, him being a Navy man in the war).
[SPOILER ALERT] I judge a book largely by the ending; this one ends badly--so it's not among my favorite MacLean stories. But it has one quote I quite like: "Foster always said that education was very important, but that it didn't really matter, because intelligence was more important than that, and that even intelligence didn't count for so much, that wisdom was far more important still. He said he had no idea in the world whether you had education or intelligence or wisdom and that it couldn't
But it has one quote I quite like: 	"Foster always said that education was very important, but that it didn't really matter, because intelligence was more important than that, and that even intelligence didn't count for so much, that wisdom was far more important still.
He said he had no idea in the world whether you had education or intelligence or wisdom and that it couldn't matter less, a blind man could see that you had a good heart, and the good heart was all that mattered in this world."(Spoken by the widow Foster after the man dies a hero.)Goodreads trivia on South by Java Head:https://www.goodreads.com/trivia/work...Goodreads trivia on Alistair Stuart MacLean:https://www.goodreads.com/trivia/auth...
I looked forward to reading my first Alister MacLean novel and early in the book was not disappointed.
The book was cleverly set up and introduced.
It is a World War II novel that begins with an escape from a ravaged and burning Singapore by boat with an agent and an unusual cast of characters that are carrying the plans for Japan's invasion of Australia.
Surving hurricanes, bombings, being picked up by an oil tanker, then attacked by a submarine, then a fake U.S. PT Boat, rowing to Java where they are finally captured by the Japanese, only to escape.
Well, it was a very good read in many ways.
Parts were a bit too one sided, but historically it was very interesting.
One, the attitudes about the Japanese were so hard and hateful at that time.
And, three, the nautical terms were very interesting and new to me.
Terms like Baft, or into the bows of the boat, and many more.
Oh, and as so many other authors do, the hero is so much better than anyone else - does no wrong and can continue even though severely injured, etc.
But overall I liked it and will continue to read his other books.
This was a good MacLean adventure story like the others I've read, but I knocked it down from four stars to three mainly due to the last quarter or so of the story. The Japanese and German officers were burdened with awful, schmaltzy dialogue and the need to tell the hero the entirety of their past and future, like the villains in a bad cartoon. That made it seem like an old Hollywood b-movie, but otherwise I thought it was a good yarn.
so much fun and can't recommend a book more action packed...perfect balance of hope and despair to keep you on the edge of your seat. and yet there is always humour to be found no matter the scene...something to take away for real life!Alistair is a storyteller no doubt....and I have already started another of his works!
I was disappointed. I have read better from MacLean. This was not one of his better efforts. Sometimes the style was too thick and the plot too slow. The plot had the usual twists of a MacLean book, but this time I figured out half of them. Motivations of some of the characters, especially the big one to escape at the end were unclear.
This was an interesting book. The premise is that a British operative has mysteriously got his hands on encoded Japanese plans for an invasion of Australia in WWII. The operative is trying to get the plans out of hostile territory and into the hands of the allies, where they can be of use. Highly episodic in nature with several good plot twists, but the ending felt quite abrupt.
"os japoneses, quando entravam num país, nunca mais de lá saíam. Pediam aquilo a que se chamavam cooperação [...] e já iam mostrando que se não a obtivessem voluntariamente a obteriam de outra maneira - com a baioneta e a metralhadora."Achei o livro chato e repetitivo. Melhora um pouco para o final, mas não deixa de ser medíocre. Embora não seja mau, leva a nota 1, pois não gostei.
Aika huikea jännäri, joka sijoittuu toisen maailmansodan aikaan. On sotaa, vakoilua, petoksia, valehtelua, mielettömiä juonenkäänteitä ja uskomattomia sankaritekoja. Juuri kaikkea, mitä 60 vuotta sitten näissä kirjoissa pitikin olla.
Not as much of a "cloak & dagger" novel, as you would typically expect from Alistair MacLean, as it focuses more on the up-front action and less on tying up the loose ends of the story-line. Still, it will not disappoint you unless you were hoping for something in the likes of "Where Eagles Dare".
This was a fun one, lots of suspense and WWII knavery by the Japanese. I also liked the love story that evolved at the end. It's a story of a group of refugees trying to escape from a Southeast Asian island in WWII. They end up trying to sneak their small boat around Java Head...thus the title.
Thoroughly enjoyed the bookMaclean was a master of the tale from the sea. Action, adventure, espionage and mystery are the key elements of the book. Good character development and a believable and taught plot.
As the Japanese army is about to enter Singapore, refuges escape the city on a ship. Running a gauntlet of Japaneses air and naval forces, the ship enters into a desperate bid to reach safety by sailing south of Java Head.
I couldn't tell what was going on in some of the scenes because there are a lot of similar (and similarly named) characters, some of which would seem to be forgotten by the author at various points...but I enjoyed the ride nonetheless! Exactly what I go to MacLean for.
