https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/825632.Nelson_Textbook_of_Pediatrics
So far I'm kind of frustrated with this book.
With over 2,6000 pages, one would think ALL of the content might be included, but no.
Often I go to read a chapter and then find I need to log online to complete reading the chapter and that is so frustrating to me.
Honestly, I would rather they had charged another $25 (or even more), include all the pages and split it into two volumes.
I don't want to have to look something up and read it online--I would have bought the e-book version if I did.
this book decribes my life in a nutshell
good
great and informative book.
Personalmente no me gusta mucho la pediatría, pero desde luego este libro es el mejor de los que he podido leer. Es bien cierto que la parte concerniente a NEonatología está apenas nombrada y por lo menos es necesario en este aspecto consultar otros libros, desde luego.Pero en Nelson reúne lo último de la información sobre Pediatría, es muy acucioso en cada tema abordado, tanto sobre la fisiopatología, diagnóstico y tratamiento.Pieza imprescindible.
This is a rather bulky textbook for foundation doctors or registrars on their paediatrics rotation. I have read a few other paediatrics textbook and I have to say that Nelson is the best. I loved that it comes with an excellent online resource as well.Due to the bulk of this book (I've read that some doctors physically split their books so that it is more portable and conducive for learning when around the wards), I would recommend purchasing the ebook version instead.
If you can only buy one Pediatrics textbook, this would be it. Having had the online version and the real thing, I prefer the real book. It was difficult to browse the online version. But I also have the luxury of a bookshelf where I can store the book.Almost as good for primary care pediatrics is Fleisher's Textbook of Pediatric Emergency Medicine. A little more user friendly in that it is smaller and gets to the point more quickly. But it doesn't include everything that Nelson's does.
It's really a wonderful book for pediatrics ..we find all about this subject here in this..
very useful
Como muchos libros, tiene muy buena información pero posiblemente no la mas actualizada.Mi "Biblia" en durante el semestre de pediatria.
good
WHEN IN DOUBT.....check Nelson
cool
One of the essential books for every physician!
How can i open book in this app
I Can't open it..
