https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/328208.The_Thief_s_Journal
Without a doubt one in a proper life needs to be obsessed with the early Kinks, a love of Howlin' Wolf, read the entire works of Oscar Wilde, to know that there is a big difference between Brian Jones era Rolling Stones to the current Ron Wood years, the love of Charles Shaw brand of wine, and this novel by Jean Genet.It's a must for every young man and woman to read as a teenager.
And why is it that?There is something so incredibly romantic about Genet - and it goes beyond the gay or straight world - it's just a great twilight world where these people live.
It's a great adventure of sorts.
Το ανώτερο και όχι το κατώτερο μυαλό υπάρχει κίνδυνος να σκανδαλιστεί από το ύφος αυτού του βιβλίου. Δεν επιδιώκω το σκάνδαλο. Βάζω σε μια τάξη αυτές τις σημειώσεις για να τις βρουν ορισμένοι νεαροί. Θα προτιμούσα να τις θεωρήσουν παρακαταθήκη μιας ασκητικής από τις δύσκολες. Χαρίζει μια απειρία οδυνηρή που εγώ ακόμα δεν την έχω ολοκληρώσει. Τι σημασία έχει ότι ξεκίνησε σαν μυθιστορηματική ονειροπόληση, αφού εγώ την επεξεργάζομαι με την ίδια αυστηρότητα που θα έβαζα για να λύσω ένα μαθηματικό π
Ο Sartre είναι εκείνος που παρατηρεί πως κατά την αναζήτηση και την επιθυμία του Κακού για το Κακό, ο Genet έχει εγκλειστεί σε ένα αδιέξοδο, δονείται από αντιφάσεις, αν κι επιδιώκει την Ανέφικτη Μηδαμινότητα, διεκδικεί το είναι για την ύπαρξή του.
Σύμφωνα με τον Georges Bataille, το έργο του Jean Genet έχει ως στόχο του την αναζήτηση του κακού και στη διεκδίκηση του κακού είναι που βρίσκεται η αξιοπρέπεια του εξεγερμένου υποκειμένου, καθώς για τον συγγραφέα η αθλιότητα δεν εντοπίζεται στην κοινωνία αλλά στον ίδιο, γιατί ο ελεεινός χαρακτήρας της κοινωνίας έρχεται ως αποτέλεσμα ανθρώπων επιφανειακά διεφθαρμένων.
'The Thief's Journey' is the journey into the strange and unique mind of Jean Genete; itinerant tramp and erstwhile novelist, the poetry of his prose beautifies the banality and brutality of its subject, of theft, violence, betrayal and murder, the depraved world of thieves, pimps and would-be murderers which Genete feels drawn to and is able to find beauty in-or rather, Genet is able to transmute his life and ideas, which upend and contradict normal concepts of herosim, love and beauty, via his art;"I refused to live for any other end than the one which I found to contain the first misfortune: that my life must be a legend, in other words legible, and must give birth to a certain new emotions which I call poetry.
When Fred Sonic Smith told Patti Smith he would take her anywhere in the world, she chose the prison in French Guiana that Genet regretted he was never sent to. Reading Genet is the first of many vain efforts to be half as interesting as Patti Smith.
I started out enthusiastic, enticed, and indeed won over by Jean Genet's prose.
But the prose only gets more convoluted, and without a clear narrative to boulster it, this collapses under my expectations and hopes for it.
I wonder if to read it again in the future would be to take more from it, but I find myself looking forward to the end of it and generally disappointed by my reading.
But as is often the case when a new literary trope is generated and expressed, it comes across as too enamoured with itself and too self-conscious.
I'm still inarticulate but it doesn't feel like I'll get the answers to something if I can just put my finger on the pulse of what is beating within me about this.
I have this feeling about 'Flowers' and 'Querelle' that they'll grow in my goose-bumps meter of story love and book relevance as I attach them to other things (life experience not needed.
But I felt moved out of "You say" and into looking out of perspectives of (yup, surroundings of beauty and romance) into more than what he was trying to convince himself of.
I'm interested in this kind of immortality of times that feel like they are gonna be forever.
Jų moralinis ambivalentiškumas pasireiškia pagal kelias formules: "vagiu iš turtuolių, kad išmaitinčiau savo vaikelius", "aš skriaudžiu žmones, bet tik objektyviai blogus žmones", "aš maištininkas ir dėjau ant visuomenės, kuri manimi nesirūpina, bet realiai visais vertybiniais klausimais sutarčiau su tavo giminėmis prie kalėdinio stalo".O Genet personažas, bent jau taip, kaip pristatomas knygoje, TIKRAI moraliai ambivalentiškas.
Jo vandenys ir ugnys kaip tik ir yra ta ypatinga savybė, mano vadinama Žava, kurį myliu.
Patikslinu: nemėgstu nei niekšybės, nei kvailumo, tad nemyliu Žavos už tai, kad toks yra, tačiau jų lydinys mane žavi."
Sizi hiç aklınıza gelmeyecek yerlere götürüp oralarda bir temiz pataklayıp geri getiriyor yazar.
Avrupa sathı boyunca ama daha çok İspanya’da geçirdiği günlere dair günlük bu.
Büyük aşkları oluyor bu süre boyunca Jean’ın.
Hepsiylede defalarca yatıyor Jean.
Ama çok kırılgan.
O ise annesini hiç tanımadığı halde çok seviyor bundan gazla bahsetmek istemesede.
Aşkları ise bu paralelde genelde sığınacak bir liman oluyor onub icin.
Daha dogrusu o hep siginacak bir liman ariyor hayati boyunca ve her buldugu limana da siginiyor.
Yani Jean annesinin biraktigi o kocaman boslugu zannedersem bu erkeklerle doldurmaya calisiyor.
Ama bu sekilde o boslugu doldurmayi basarabiliyor mu derseniz, bence kesinlikle hayir.
"Eğer derin bir yapıt, korkunç bir biçimde kendi içine batmış bir insanın haykırışıysa, insanlarınbu yapıttan uzaklaşmaları hayırlıdır," demiş yazar.
Yazar sadece olayları tüm berbatlıklarıyla ve o berbatlıkların içinde şaşırtıcı da olsa bulunabilen güzelliklerle anlatmış.
En çok aşklarını anlatmış ki aşkları da bir o kadar aşağılıkmış aslında, o güzelliği aşağılık olanda bulmuş.
Yani kitabı okurken küçük düşen biri varsa o da okuyucunun ta kendisi oluyor.Bu kitaba 5 yıldız vermek istemedim çünkü beğenilsin diye yazılan bir kitap olmadığını düşünüyorum.
Yazar biz onu takdir edelim ya da hayran olalım diye anlatmıyor, aksine rahatsız etmek için anlatıyor.
Çok haşır neşir olmadığım bir tür ama gerçekten farklı bir kitap okumak istiyorsanız tavsiye ederim.
Не го пожелах, защото щях да отнема от тази книга всичко, което иска да каже на езика на поета и клетника Жьоне.
„Дневник на крадеца“ („Колибри“, 2015, с превод на Росица Ташева) е една от най-поразяващите книги, които съм чел.
„Дневник на крадеца“ е поднесена като поетизирана ябълка, с инжектирана в нея бавно действаща отрова – за чувствителността, за приемствеността и за разбирането.
Светът на Жьоне е ад, който той обича, възхищава му се и приема като даден му от природата.
И това сякаш му е потребно, тъй като си изважда акт за раждане чак на двайсет и една годишна възраст.(Продължава в блога: http://knijenpetar.blogspot.bg/2015/1...)
Genet did this pretty late – when the opportunity presented itself and his writing started to draw attention, he draped himself in this black cape and won.It shows that he’s intoxicated with his success and in love with his words.
But as I said, as a description – not the rationalization – of a life, it is very powerful.And I loved the vision of a unicorn prancing in the wide field of wheat with birches in the background on the border between Czechoslovakia and Poland, because “only a unicorn would fit there”.
Might be sacrilege to say it, but Genet is sort of a one-trick pony. He trades on the wholesome, just as the physically imposing and masculine depredate on him. He has a lot of sex and cadges drinks, viatica, and places to stay. All of this is done in a disorientatingly fluid manner. Not enough variety or substance for me to feel invested in the plot, but I'm glad I gave him two shots.
It seems evident that a good deal of Delany's inspiration for this image was drawn from Genet, who makes a compelling case for an alternative moral dimension to the outlaw's life, codes, and responses.
Circumstance dictates self-image as much as anything and the luxury of making of yourself what you wish to be is not restricted to "lucky" people.A difficult story at times, chronicling a life of poverty, borderline nihilism, and a struggle to find love where available and in ways some would find abhorrent, it is a rich journey through a layer of the world most of us know nothing about.
Morality is overrated. If you're beauty is you, then context is only "lice" on the cake.
Hırsızlık, erdem, toplum, eşcinsellik, korkular, politika.. Jean Genet'nin (ve aslında hepimizin) iç dünyasına muhteşem bir yolculuk. En sevdiklerimden.
Skondensowana grafomańska egzaltacja. Przypuszczam, że to obowiązkowa lektura w piekle, bo czytanie tej książki to Tortura Ostateczna.
Jean Genet is a masterful writer and this is a masterpiece.
Genet was fearless, writing about crime and homosexuality in an age of unflinching, unquestioned morality.
He embraced his destitution and found a holiness-a saintliness- in his pain of being abandoned at birth and left to a life of homelessness and crime.The more I write, the less I am able to define the beauty of this novel.
The more I write, the more I trample the overwhelming elegance of this work.
If you appreciate the genius of style and language then you will find that Genet is up there with the absolute immortals.
Entre a narrativa e o fluxo de consciência. Fragmentado, entre uma ideia e outra, pontas soltas. Um livro difícil de gostar pela estrutura e pelas ideias do autor sobre crime, submissão e homossexualidade.
Worth a read. Although I read it many years ago, there are still a couple of vivid stills in my head. It is mentioned in Siri Hustvedt's Woman looking at men looking at women in her chapter on pornography, due to explicit passages, of which I have no recollection.
Eurgh. But done. And I do think it’ll make for an interesting discussion topic in class.
Not"I've finished this book", but "I'm done with this book".
At one time, it may have been relevatory writing, candid about homosexuality and unrestrained lives of those on the gritty edge of society.
Now, it holds less interest.
It is not current.
It has been overshadowed by works exploring the same lifestyles in more contemporary, understandable ( politically and sociologically) settings.Genet writes at times of philosophical or existential elements of his life and relationships in this subsistence existence.
I haven't been reading his work in or from a place where I fully take in all that he's expressing.
Странно-грустная книга. В первую очередь, книга покорила меня искренностью автора. В процессе чтения сбивало с толку «уходы в себя» автора. Что ж, это его стиль. А книгу рекомендую!)
Безпокойството ми е по-скоро породено от двойната роля на жертва и престъпник, която в себе си съм приел да играя.
Дови всъщност нощем самият аз излъчвам, изхвърлям произлезлите от мен жертва и престъпник, карам ги да се съберат някъде вън, а призори с вълнение научавам, че още малко, и жертвата е щяла да бъде убита, а престъпникът – заточен или гилотиниран.
Така тревогата ми се разпростира до онази област от мен, която наричан Гвиана.“ „На улицата толкова се страхувам някой полицай да не ме познае, че съм се научил да се прибирам в себе си.
This semi-autobiographical account of the time in the 1930's Jean Genet lived on the streets of Barcelona, Antwerp and Paris depicts his quest for psychic survival, helped by consciously embracing a set of anti-values.
His first person account of a waif's solitude has some weaknesses and many strengths.The weak points of the story pertain to Genet's non-linear narrative, which jumps around a bit within a nine or ten year period.
Other annoyances involve the use of too many parenthetical remarks and footnotes, and sometimes complicated sentences comprised of maddening nested phrases.The strong points of the book are the tone and quality with which Genet tells his story.
Here is one: "I no longer know what I thought, but I remember that I offered all my woes to God. In my solitude remote from men, I came quite close to being all love, all devotion.
Every creator must thus shoulder--the expression seems feeble--must make his own, to the point of knowing it to bo his substance, circulating in his arteries, the evil given by him, which his heroes choose freely.
Though the creator grants his characters free will, he hopes, deep down in his heart, that they will choose Good.
On a different level, it is an inversion of the morals and structures of Western society by which the scoundrels, pimps, homosexuals, murderers, trannies, and litterbugs of Europe are transformed into saints who reject the modern order and its boring ways.
As such, I'm sure that Genet's work must be read numerous times to fully grasp its layers of artistic vision, beatific prose, and philosophical meanderings.This book was assigned to me in an undergraduate class on modern novels many years ago.
I only read it once, many years ago, before I was aware of the material that was assigned in class.
I clearly remember how this book got to my reading list: I was deeply interested in the absurd literature, and Jenet's drama tradition is definitely related to the genre.
He admired them, he praised them.Nevertheless, while reading I had a strong feeling that the protagonist did not believe in what he tried to conceptualize and legitimize as a philosophy of theft, casual homosexual relations and violence.
Lots of events in the book give a reader a hint that he wished to have another relations: truthful, honest and loyal; he wished to have another life, and for not pursuing it he decided to punish himself by imprisonments and dealing with people who would betray him [and he is fully aware of it].
There's basically one theme in this book: young Genet's quest to invent a new morality ennobling homosexuality, theft and treason; making them "the holy trinity", the highest virtues.
Genet brings his criminal lovers to life with character portraits full of religious adoration, bringing to mind Henry Miller on one of his manic sprees.
It's a fascinating cast of characters including police officers, dock workers, small time gangsters, pimps and soldiers.The book is low on plot which always seems to be an issue with some reviewers.
Genet's total self absorption, his feverish self pity and masochism, his perverse ideas of love, his contempt for Christian morality somehow make him a hero.
Jean Genet's absorbing work of literary autobiography traverses the boundaries of genre with stunning ingenuity and imagination.
Genet blurs the boundary of morality with Nietzschean fury as he revels in his self projected "evil." Perhaps what is most astonishing about 'The Thief's Journal' is the way in which Jean Genet comments on his own commentary with startling frankness and lucidity.
In many ways this work established many of the literary mechanics of what is now referred to as "post-modern," though Genet achieves the same level of complexity without sacrificing clarity or beauty in the process
This book opened my eyes to how the world is viewed by different classes.
If you live outside that middle class world the laws no longer are relevant to you and so there is little reason to obey them.People do not disobey the laws because they "want" to or because they are "bad" but because their needs clash with the laws.
If your need demands you break a law, then that law no longer is seen as relevant to you - it no longer protects you but endangers you - so you will break it.
