https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1415163.Biggles_in_the_Orient
More planes are disappearing18 May 2015 Once again the allies are losing planes, however this time it is the route between India and China and this is causing problems for the Chinese attempting to hold off the Japanese invasion. As can be expected, when the RAF has a problem there is only one person that they can call in to help: Biggles. Oh, and also his squadron, which usually consists of Algy and Ginger (and a couple of others though they don't tend to be as regular as Biggle's two friends,
The previous Biggles story that I read, Biggles Sweeps the Desert, also involved disappearing planes which was thanks to some Nazi secret weapon, so I was starting to wonder whether Captain Johns was being a little lazy with some of his plots.
So, we have disappearing planes and quite possibly another secret weapon (this time invented by the Japanese) so Biggles puts on his Sherlock Holmes cap, grabs his magnifying glass (well, metaphorically speaking that is) and tries to unravel the mystery.
If Biggles had listened to me the mystery would have been solved at the outset rather than half way through the book but then we'd have missed the naked, oiled dhobi-wallah.
This is one of the better Biggles adventure/mystery novels I've read. As all the books it is short and easy to read. There are some issues with stereotypical descriptions and attitudes towards foreigners that I treat more as a sign of the time this was written than malice. There is also the ineptitude and stupidity of other people that makes it necessary to call in Biggles. If someone had had half a brain cell they would have figured it out and there wouldn't have been a book.
This book is about an extraordinary pilot in the air force called Biggles written w.e johns.
Biggles goes to Dum Dum aerodrome on a secret mission because planes flying in the area are mysteriously crashing because of some unseen force.
Biggles must find out whats causing the planes to crash and stop it before its to late.the book is a very good book if you enjoy action and murder mystery books or if you have enjoyed other books in the series.
I would rate this book 4.5/5 as it has been written very well and keeps you guessing till the end.
Palate cleansed... with slightly unsavoury 'of it's time' low-level racism. It's not one of the best Biggles books to be fair, published in 1944 (and mine is a first edition doncha know) Johns was clearly writing to a fairly jingoistic audience primed to defeat the Hun, the Japs and if WE had his way, the Frogs, it's a fairly by-the-numbers read.
Joinks! Its Nancy Drew with an attitde. Granted, this was propaganda for children of the brave fighting forces for king and country, so the racist slurs were doled out with the best intentions. Ouch, though, really.I have to wonder, having brought this home from Emmaus near Marseille (a local type Goodwill shop), who owned this book, and who read it?
https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Easy to read adventures of the famous pilot.
7/10
A really good read. Action packed and engaging.
Aardig verhaal. Op onverklaarbare wijze verdwijnen steeds meer vliegtuigen en piloten in India. Niemand weet waarom. Tot Biggles op komt dagen. Samen met zijn team lost hij het probleem op.
I had this figured out pretty early in the game, but still a fun read.
