https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/815528.Out_of_the_Shadow
Last fall, my sister and I visited New York City.
While there we visited the Tenement Museum.
In this book a Russian Jewish woman describes her childhood including her life in Russia, her immigration to the New York and her life there—working in the garment industry, a short stint as a servant, contacts with the “outside world” (upper Manhattan and the countryside).
Having seen a tenement, it was easy to visualize the stoops, the halls, the stairs, the rooms, the back area where the outhouses and water pump were as Rose Cohen describes them and her life there.
It was not written forty years later from the comfort of a middle-class life.
It's strange to me that this book isn't required reading. It touches on so much from workers and woman's rights to the life of immigrant Russian Jew's in New York City. One of my favorite books of all time.
Book 24 of my #2017readingchallenge is Rose Cohen's "Out of the Shadow: A Russian Jewish Girlhood on the Lower East Side," a book that is written by a relative of my friend Marci @marcirobin - it is her maternal grandfather's aunt.Now, first of all, this is an incredible memoir of being an immigrant in America at the turn of the century: leaving Russia as a child (for fear of persecution), arriving in New York City very religious and then becoming a radically different, passionate, gifted, sensitive young woman.
If you love American history, I recommend it.But it truly is knowing a descendant of Ms. Cohen that brings this to life, it made it personal.
Thanks, Marci, for letting me know about your great (great) aunt.Man, it used to be CRAZY FREAKING DIFFICULT here.
Yet the book overall is appealing despite its grimness due to Rose's honesty about herself and the moments of light she is able to find.
Most books about growing up as a Jewish immigrant in the Lower East Side gloss over the harsh realities.
This book brings us face to face with them, from the backbreaking labor of sitting hunched over her stitching 12 hours/day (at age 12) in close quarters with a dozen others with little light or air, to the former skilled worker she sees rooting through garbage for food in the Depression of 1897.

I suspect that this is the book I will use--I think that it contains what was the best of the Bread givers and the Promised Land. It also saves me from talking aabout a novel has a historical document, which I appreciate.
A good companion to A Tree Grows in Brooklyn - memoir of a 12-year-old Russian Jewish immigrant whose father puts her to work in sweatshops to help pay their family's way over to America in 1892. It is so interesting because she is not unique or special; this is just the way it was. Crazy!
I don't remember this book at all... don't quote me on saying it's okay.
This is a true story of a Russian Jewish immigrant girl living in America at the turn of the century. Very well written.
In parts interesting, but on the whole a snoozer. I had to read this for my Women in U.S. History class.
I really enjoy memoirs of turn on the century immigrants. I enjoyed the memories. I try to put myself in that time period, one of my favorite.
