https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/159849.Katharine_of_Aragon
This title actually encompasses a trilogy originally published as 3 separate works: “Katharine the Virgin Widow,” “The Shadow of the Pomegranate,” and “The King’s Secret Matter.” Katharine was the first (and longest) wife of Henry VIII, daughter of Ferdinand and Isabella (rulers of Spain).Without dwelling on the fascinating story of Queen Katharine who was undoubtedly the purest and most deserving of Henry’s wives, I’d rather speak of the author, Jean Plaidy.
She writes with an authority that can be felt, a feeling of historical accuracy and intimacy with the characters.
Whew! This is a big, long book (it's really three books in one). I enjoyed it overall, even if it seemed a bit familiar. The characters are well developed (if a bit familiar in their portrayal) and the plot moves along nicely throughout. I will continue reading the series...
It was a long investment in time and it would have ranked much higher if it had only been a bit shorter. But it wasn't until after the reading that I learned it is actually 3 books in one. But that is what happens when you read on the Kindle. As I was reading the scale in which I planned to score this went anywhere from a 2 -5. So if you like a lot of history in your Historical Fiction then you will enjoy.
This book is really 3 books in 1, with the first book beginning with Katherine's coming to England to marry Arthur, who will one day be king when his father, Henry VII, dies.
The book continues with Katherine marry Henry when Arthur dies, though it is several years later.
Katherine is kept waiting for years in England until Henry finally decides he wants to marry her, basically because all of his advisors warn him not to do so.
Finally, Henry gets the divorce he wants because he basically makes himself the Supreme Ruler of the Church of England.
When it finally wrapped up and I realized that the slow begining of this book had been an entire stand-alone novel at one point I wondered how anyone had ever read it as that!The second part was my favorite - maybe because it was about the portion of Katherine's life when she was actually happy.
Katherine and Henry's estrangement (the time between when he attempted to divorce her and the time that he actually married Anne Boleyn) in real life lasted about 8 years.
Reading about it felt like three times that.Jean Plaidy seemed to be very sympathetic towards Katherine, so much so that I'd be interested to see how she portrays Anne Boleyn.
2.5 starsI've heard a lot of good stuff about Jean Plaidy's books, and to be honest I was disappointed.
I think historical fiction is a very hard genre to write about; you've got to keep the story interesting, but also stay true to the facts.
I think Plaidy did a lot more of the latter than the former.I'm not one of those people who are obsessed with everything in a historical novel being totally accurate; I like it to be more or less true, with more emphasis on the story than the history.
That's why I wasn't very keen on this trilogy.
I'm not sure if it was the translation issue or something else, but this is seriously boring. I did gave it a try, quite a few times and it was really annoying, so I honestly give up on reading it further.
By far my favorite book on Katharine of Aragon. This is actually three books combined into one and was a page turner. I have read many books on Queen Katharine but I feel I came to know her the best through Jean Plaidy's wonderful novel.
The books are: "Katharine, the Virgin Widow," "The Shadow of the Pomegranate," and "The King's Secret Matter." So this volume is a great deal, as you're really getting three books for the price of one.Plaidy is an excellent historical fiction writer.
Katharine happens to be a favorite figure of mine, but Plaidy has written novels on just about anyone you could want to read about in English history.
"Katharine, the Virgin Widow" focuses on the young princess and her first marriage to Henry's brother, Arthur.
"The Shadow of the Pomegranate" continues Katharine's story after her marriage to Henry VIII, and focuses on her difficulty to conceive an heir.
What I really enjoy about Plaidy's work is her respect for the known or documented history of the time that she writes about she faithfully depicts the era in this novel.
I enjoyed reading about events that have been documented in nonfiction sources.
This book is a compilation of several of Plaidy's earlier novels, so, if you have read any of them, as I had already read Katherine of Aragon parts of this novel will just be a review for you.
Again I will say Plaidy is well worth the read and is far superior, in content, to some what is currently being offered in this genre.
God knows I hate to give Plaidy a bad review.
At the same time, I have to point out what I big disappointment this book was for me.
The main reason is that it focuses very little on Catherine herself.
Far too much of it is about her sister, Joan.
Joan is a fascinating woman, and C.
W. Gornter covered her in a masterful book.
But if you title a book about Catherine, give the poor woman her due.
Henry VIII passed over her and Plaidy committed the same sin by relegating her to supporting character in her own novel.
I have to admit I didn't finish this one. The first section, which would have been book 2 of the series had I gotten them separately, basically just retold the last half of book 1 from a different point of view, and had I known this I would've skipped it altogether. So far my impression of this author is that she tells a good story, but takes a lot longer than necessary to tell it. I just couldn't get through this one.
I really enjoyed this book. It is actually 3 novels in one. They are all about Katherine of Aragon and are about her life from a young girl to her death. It paints Katherine of Aragon as a very strong if not stubborn woman. Filled with historical facts as well as speculations as to how these people really were when alive makes this book well worth reading.
Since I'm a big fan of historical novels and especially when writer/author brings in genuine true historical figures like King Henry VIII & his first wife Katharine of Aragon this is a winner. Jean Plaidy brought Katharine to life for me and also evoked much sympathy for her position and her difficult struggles with her husband King.
I love all of Jean Plaidy's books I have read up to this point. I feel she brings historical characters to life and makes you feel as though these could be anyone or that any person could go through the same pitfalls and triumphs as the historical figures featured in each book. Worth reading.
Loved this fictional account based on her true story. Wow! She's quite the queen.
this is dragging on...
Though written more than fifty years ago this trilogy of novels about Katharine of Aragon is still a highly enjoyable read. I found Jean Plaidy’s telling of the related stories of Katharine’s father, sister and nephew added an interesting European political dimension to this tragic tale, popularised in recent television historical dramas such as “The Tudors” and ”Wolf Hall”. I am very tempted to go on and read the prequels and sequels to this story in Jean Plaidy’s prolific output, but as I have so many other novels queuing up in my reading list I really must resist the temptation!
But it did provide a detailed look into Katharine of Aragon's rise and fall as Henry VIII's first Queen.
I felt this did a good job portraying the main characters in this drama- Henry came across as a petulant, self-centered man while Katharine seemed to be stubbornly loyal and virtuous.
A good overview of the King's first marriage while providing some insight into the Hapsburg, French and Spanish courts as well.
I found it odd that Thomas More did not have a larger role in the story; he seemed to be even less than a minor character.
Sufrí las 661 páginas junto con Catalina, anhelando que su destino repuntara. Sin querer, termine sabiendo mucho sobre las monarquías medievales.
I enjoyed this historical. NovelI have read other biographies of Katherine and this is one of the best for bringing historical facts to life.
Una novela preciosa que aborda la trágica vida de Catalina de Aragón.
I'm looking forward to Margaret George's "Autobiography of Henry VIII" for a reputedly engaging and deep portrayal of the monarch.Anne Boleyn is a distant figure here, no doubt because Plaidy had 2 or 3 other books planned for her.
However, they were meant to be a trilogy, which doesn't excuse Plaidy from taking the reader down paths that lead nowhere or driving the reader around in circles over familiar territory.The first book in this trilogy was more interesting than the last two because I had previously known little about Katharine's early life in England pre-marriage to Henry VIII.
Está muy bien redactado, muy interesante, no solo habla de la dinastía Tudor también entra tantito en la historia de los Estuardo y menciona acontecimientos impactantes que sucedieron en esa época y en Roma. Muy buen libro
Excellent historical fiction!
As it is, I just know too much and have too many suppositions and theories of my own; whenever I came upon points of contention, I would say to myself, "Ah, so she went with this version of that event.
In a way, I believe Jean Plaidy was the Philippa Gregory of her time: she was able to introduce many exciting historical eras and personages to readers using what reference materials were available to her, for which she deserves the lauds she receives, but it's quite obvious she infused her novels with biases and suppositions, possibly her own, possibly those of the sources on which she relied.
She felt she would be betraying the legacy of her mother, Queen Isabella, and part due to her fears for the future of her daughter Mary.
In limbo, neither legitimate nor a bastard but something else.There also is element of pride being the only thing Katherine had that couldn't be taken away from her.
She knew her cause was hopeless, but she fought to the end anyway.I used to get impatient with Queen Katherine, but after reading this book I am filled with nothing but respect.
There are few things I enjoy as much as being immersed in a Tudor historical fiction book, show or movie.
Plaidy tells the story of Katherine of Aragon's childhood, arrival in England, and all the travails that ensued as a pawn in royalty game of Tudor era England, until her fall from favor and end of her life.
Several times within what would have been the first and second books I wound up highlighting portions as extreme examples of this, where things such as Wolsey's hatred for his enemies were described in almost exactly the same way within several pages of each other.
Putting those issues aside, these were exactly what I look for in Tudor historical fiction romps.
This is the story of Katherine of Aragon, Spanish princess (daughter of Ferdinand and Isabella) and first wife of Henry VIII.
She is first sent off to England to marry Arthur (Henry VIII’s older brother); Arthur dies, she is stuck in England, living off the meager allowance Henry VII provides her.
She is ultimately married to Henry VIII.
He seeks to have his marriage to Katherine invalidated, on the ground that the marriage is incestuous, because she was previously married to his brother.
Katherine insists that the marriage with Arthur was never consummated.
The Pope refuses to annul the marriage, so Henry VIII ultimately breaks off and starts his own church and marries Anne Boleyn.
La Princesa Viuda: Catalina de Aragón es el primer libro de la trilogía “Las Reinas Tudor” (La princesa viuda.
Catalina Howard: LAS REINAS TUDOR III) Este primer libro cuenta la historia real de Catalina de Aragón (hija de los reyes católicos de España: Isabel y Fernando) y su matrimonio con Enrique VIII.
A pesar de que le libro tiene más de 600 páginas, es una novela histórica con buen ritmo, no es aburrido aunque a veces un poco reiterativo, quizá por el interés de que los detalles históricos estén bien documentados.
