https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47853.Fear_and_Misery_of_the_Third_Reich
24 hard-hitting scenes depicting life under Nazi rule in which people were exposed to poverty, violence, fear and pretence in the years leading up to the Second World War. The play premiered in Paris in 1938, which featured some strong Nazi antisemitism in several of the sketches (all to the annoyance of Hitler & his cronies).
They all carry an underlying message, and are a bit of a mixed bag, some are excellent, whilst others are so brief that if you sneezed in the crowd you would probably miss the whole scene.
Einzelne, zusammenhanglose Szenen, die scheinbar auf Nachrichten und Augenzeugenberichten beruhen. Meist geht es um einfache Menschen, die versuchen sich anzupassen um zu überleben, oft aber auch nicht wissen, wie sie das am besten tun sollen. Da ist zum Beispiel der Amtsrichter, der so entscheiden will, wie es den neuen Machthabern gefällt, aber der Fall ist kompliziert und egal wie – irgendeinem Mächtigen wird er es nicht recht machen können. Gerade durch die Kürze der Szenen sehr dicht und die Personen sind meist nicht eindeutig schlecht, sondern eher ratlos und verängstigt.
Furcht und Elend des Dritten Reiches=Fear and Misery of the Third Reich, Bertolt Brecht (1898 - 1956)عنوان: ترس و نکبت رایش سوم؛ اثر: برتولت برشت؛ مترجم: شریف لنکرانی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، مروارید، خانه کتاب ایران، 1344، در 196 ص، موضوع: نمیشنامه های نویسندگان آلمانی قرن 20 م
Set in Germany during the 1930s, Brecht uses 24 vignettes to show the rise of the Nazi party and its effect on the lives of ordinary people.
Some sketches work better than others, but taken together, they offer a remarkable collage of life in Nazi Germany.
It is very disturbing to read –in scenes that hop from absurd comedy to the gloomiest drama to sharp symbolism– how civilian life is taken over by anxiety, prejudice, paranoia, denial, violence, dread, angst, insurgency, and darkness.
Brecht's portray of the decay of common life under a political agenda is both historical interesting and emotionally fascinating.
What it must have felt to be a regular citizen not swept up by the frenzy of the era; the constant fear and paranoia, always on the lookout, afraid of being denounced. Well written dialogues and characters.
Estratti da Elementi per una cronologia, di Bernard Dort (in fondo al testo)...1923 maggio: ...Già dal «putsch» di Hitler e di Ludendorff, a Monaco, in novembre, figura al pari di Lion Feuchtwanger nella lista delle persone da arrestare in caso di successo......1933 gennaio: rappresentazione di "La linea di condotta" a Erfurt, interrotta dalla polizia; si aprono procedimendi per alto tradimento.
Le autorità di Darmstadt rifiutano l'inserimento di "Santa Giovanna dei macelli" nel repertorio del teatro23 febbraio: all'indomani dell'incendio del Reichstag, partenza di Brecht e della sua famiglia per I'esilio: Praga, Vienna, poi Zurigo.
Soggiorno a Carona, nel Canton Ticino (Svizzera).10 maggio: i libri di Brecht sono bruciati dai nazisti....
This play helps one to understand how, by small degrees the nazi oppression took hold of the everyday lives of ordinary people in myriad ways. The slow advancement of fascism and the Demi's of freedom is inexorably catalogued. The moral is, beware of the insidious loss of your freedoms. Are we vigilant enough today? What loss of our rights have we taken for granted? What unspoken aspect of our society do we willfully ignore?
“Character is a question of time. It lasts for a certain length of time, just like a glove. There are good ones that last a long time. But they don't last forever.”
همون کتاب ترسونکبت رایش سوم.نوشته برتولت برشته ..این کتاب در ایران توسط اقایشریف لنکرانی ترجمه شده است..
4.5 na verdade , sempre tive curiosidade em ler Brecht e com certeza que vou ler mais obras dele.
Not fun at all but extremely interesting !
Brilliant. I love that each scene is completely different--different characters in different settings-- but that all the scenes share a common theme.
One of the absolute best scripts I've had the honor of directing.
I cannot wait to perform this play for my drama show !!!
A visceral account of pre-war Nazi Germany. Indeed full of fear - fear of speaking one's mind, fear of war, fear to be arrested and put into a concentration camp and misery - lack of food because the focus is on the arms build-up, and the only winter shoes one gets are those the "generous" Nazis stole from those they deported. There are no heroes, only villains, desperate class-conscious workers, and many, many blind followers of the regime. A bleak read, but a worthwhile one.
Brecht’s description of what it was like to live in Second World War Germany is at times thrilling and chilling. Particular attention should be focused on In Search of Justice.

Bertolt Brecht's anti-nazi play from the 1930's in its 24 scene format.
I read this along with Joseph Kanon's "Leaving Berlin," a historical novel set in post WW2 Germany in which Brecht is a minor character.
The play has a few fascinating scenes, such as "The Spy," and "The Old Militant." They were insightful and revealing, and it is obvious how they would be improved by watching them on the stage.
However, some of the scenes felt a bit redundant.
Overall, an important piece of culture and anti-nazi literature, and an insightful and quick read.
Bertolt Brecht peint avec vivacité et réalisme des scènes de la vie quotidienne sous le régime nazi. L'absurdité et la peur, l'aliénation de l'individu face à un système de plus en plus impitoyable s'installent au fil des scénettes, dressant le portrait d'une population souffrante et soumise, écartelée entre la tentation d'embrasser l'ordre nouveau (avec l'incertitude fébrile suscitée par les sautes d'humeur capricieuses du pouvoir) et un conformisme de façade, parfois un geste de résistance dérisoire dans l'attente passive que s'achève la tempête historique.
I hesitate to say I "liked" this book, due mostly to the subject matter and the way the author subtly insinuates the Nazi menace. Very uncomfortable to read, especially in hindsight, and you can see that the protagonists often do not know what to say or do to keep themselves safe; what is perfectly all right one day is cause for arrest or 'disappearance' the next.
nay, the Resistible Rise of Arturo Ui is still second to none...
Entgegen der Buchbeschreibung sah Brecht die Verhältnisse nicht besonders genau. Wem wollte er eigentlich einreden, man litte Mitte der 30er in Deutschland Hunger?
I highly recommend it!!
Sublime!
Fascinating play with stupendous characters. Wonderfully written.
