https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/737171.My_Big_Little_Golden_Book_About_God
Ah, what do I remember about a book I read before I was even old enough to go to Kindergarten?
I've been told I even went to Sunday School during this time but, oddly enough, I have no memory of that whatsoever.What I remember about this book is a sunny, warm day.
The kind of day that is perfect for swinging in your tire swing (It was a red plastic tire swing which of course I remember going to the store to buy but, oddly enough, no memory of going to Sunday School).So I'm eating candy red hots.
Swinging in the sun, eating red hots, and contemplating God and creation.
I am just a sucker for this golden books with their big-headed children living gently in quiet worlds. These are very soothing books to look at as a child, they don't engage your imagination, they don't require much from you except a turn of a page. Sometimes a quiet book is a very nice thing.
Absolutely beautiful!!! I read this as part of a collection of Golden Books illustrated by Wilkin. Though her illustrations are always charming, I felt these had a special glow about them and Watson's wording is far prettier and warmer than most of the other Golden Books from that era. These contain the "updated" illustrations Wilkin made in the '60s, I believe, to include multi-cultural children. Absolutely stunning and heartwarming!!! A classic not to be missed!
I bought this book as an introduction to God to my daughter. I am not a religious person in the sense that I go to church but I do believe in God and I wanted a way to start telling her about the subject. I was not sure how she would take to the book, but she loves it and has read it on a regular basis and started to ask questions on the subject of God. It is a fairly easy book for young readers with beautiful illustrations to go along with a message of love and positivity.
The Little Golden Books are some of my most favorites!
I read this profound little book to my children when they were small and bought a copy for my grand daughter as well.
How many books about God first published in 1956 are still in print today?
Yet this can still be had at any Woolworths store for less than three dollars.
The text by Jane Werner Watson is simple but childlike in its trust.
The marvelous drawings by the incomparable Eloise Wilkin remain moving and quietly meditative with their large cherubic faces marvelling at creation's wonders great and small.
I just re-purchased this book on eBay for $3.00 because I needed to have a copy. I remembered this year, after seeing a picture of it, that I had it when I was little, and that I turned the prayers into songs at night with my mother by my bed.
Another one of my favorite books as a child.
First sentence: GOD IS GREAT.
Premise/plot: Originally published in the 1950s, My Little Golden Book About God is a picture book for young children about GOD.
It is not a gospel presentation or tract.
It is a story parents can share with their children, perhaps even as a bedtime story.
I do think it is important for parents to talk about God, to talk with their children as if God was very real, very present with them.
God is presented as CREATOR and SUSTAINER of the world.
God is always there.
I LOVE this book. I remember rec. it as a gift as a very young child and I loved the pictures and about wore it out looking at it over and over. It was a gift from my Aunt who passed away while I was pregnant. My daughter shares her middle name. My heart stopped while at the store one day and I saw that little girl with her big head! Of course I had to buy it for my daughter. We read it again and again, I love it.
I love this book - warm and gentle, God in the simplest terms and truths. Why make it complicated?'He gives us a small, still voice in our hearts to help us tell wrong from right. God gives us hopes and wishes and dreams, plans for our grown-up years ahead.He gives us memories of yesterdays, so that happy times and people we love we can keep with us always in our hearts. For GOD IS LOVE.''When we're hurt or sorry or lonely or sad, if we think of God, He is with us there.'
This book is just oozing with sweetness. The version we read dates from 1980, and while it is multicultural it mostly has pictures of white kids. There are a few black kids.It does of course talk about God, and in a comforting manner. It doesn't mention Jesus, so it is good for many religions.
While written for children, this book has something for everyone. Reading just now, it has provided some perspective to the messed up weekend I have had.God is indeed great. We need to remember that even when everything seems so bad. That is a timeless message.Yes, this is a very good book.
Beautiful story. Multicultural, considering the time it was written and illustrated, shows children of different ethnicities and some different parts of the world. Although it is about God, it is pretty vague, so can fit in with different belief systems.
A non-denominational book about God... easily adaptable to my own belief... I say Heavenly Father in place of God when I read it to my children as it seems more personal to me. Has a sweet rhythm and engenders gratitude for this beautiful world and all creation.
that no matter what, how terrible it is, whatever happens to you in life the sun will still come up the next day like it has for millions of years. the mountains will be there the rivers will still flow and you will have survived. i still read this as an adult
This is one of the first books I ever remember"reading". it was one of the books we were allowed to have in church...I followed that with 2 of the kids. Katrina has a tendency to rip, so she can['t have this one yet. This brings back memories of OLF's crying room....
Love, Love, Love this book. A great introduction to God for little ones and the illustrations are by Eloise Wilkin, one of my most favorite children's books illustrators.
I remember the last page of this book to this day. The picture is so beautiful.
My children often lost interest during in the words of the book, but we enjoyed identifying the images on the pages, which are sweet and peaceful to look at.
Illustrated I think by Eloise Wilkin. I love the illustrations and I love the peaceful confidence and trust it shows towards God. I want my children to know there is a Creator who loves us.
This is my girls' favorite book. we made up a song for the p[oem in the back and we sing it every night before lights out!!
Notes:sweet illustrations with sweet text
Love the beautiful illustrations, very nice text and concepts that are simple for little children. A way to introduce God's love through the simple things. Well enjoyed here!
This seemed familiar, probably because I probably had it as a child myself. There were POC represented in the pictures, which surprised me. That must have been the updated 1984 version (still surprising though, actually).
When I picked this book up to read to my daughter I expected there to be some pretty iffy theological content but it was so good! I teared up a little and I love that there are pictures of white and black children. Such a precious book with truths about God.
I love the message, but the words are awkward at times. Is it prose or rhyme? And some of the eyes in the drawings of the children are creepy.
"My Big Little Golden Book About God" by Jane Werner Watson.One of my earliest memories.
This is a perfect choice. It has a sugary rhythm that attracts many. I had this book as a child and I remember looking at it over and over. Today, I still love the multicultural illustrations. And doesn't every little girl love pigtails, braids and bugs?
I purchased this book for my oldest daughter years ago, and to my surprise, we still have it.
It is still in good condition too.
I remember reading this book when I was a child.
I had a lot of Little Golden Books.
This one was one of my favorites.
It is a good book about God and his love for us.
It shows how we can see and feel the love of God all around us, all the time.
I really like the illustrations.
This is a short, sweet and heartwarming book.
I recommend it to anyone who is interested in it.
