https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31373633-and-every-morning-the-way-home-gets-longer-and-longer
What it's about is best described by Backman himself in his letter to the reader at the beginning."This is a story about memories and about letting go.
It's a love letter and a slow farewell between a man and his grandson, and between a dad and his boy.
I'm letting it go for now, for what it's worth." I thought maybe I'd leave this review by just saying so very beautiful because I'm afraid that I won't do it justice with cliche , but I woke up thinking about this story and I'm so affected by it that I'm compelled to say something more.
It's the story of a grandpa and grandson - and their shared love of mathematics and how grandpa tries to define what is happening to him while wrestling with the fear of memories beginning to fade.My own father was diagnosed with it 2 years ago.
This is that story and the transition as the disease moves forward and what it takes is devastating.
From not knowing where you are to not knowing who you are and the people you once loved.
There's a hospital room at the end of a life where someone, right in the middle of the floor, has pitched a green tent. A person wakes up inside it, breathless and afraid, not knowing where he is. A young man sitting next to him whispers: "Don't be scared." This is such a sad little story but with BIG heart. And the sad thing is that these things are true. So many people have went through this with family members. My grandma is forgetting things. Life isn't fair. The little boy Noah is a wonder
The little boy Noah is a wonderful child and adult if I read it correctly.
He was there for his grandma when she went and he was always there for his grandpa.
"The amount I love you, Noah," she would tell him with her lips to his ear after she read fairy tales about elves and he was just about to fall asleep, "the sky will never be that big." She wasn't perfect, but she was his.
It tells of Noah and his grandpa sitting on that bench with grandma's favorite purple hyacinth's blooming underneath.
It tells of grandpa confusing his son Ted with his grandson Noah.
It tells of grandpa's memories with grandma.
I usually stay away from people who intentionally make me cry, but Backman pulls me back over and over again.
At 96 pages “And Every Morning the Way Home Gets Longer and Longer: A Novella” is a short, over-too-quickly read, but he packs this novella with so much love and tenderness.
So many moments that live only in our memories, there are no photos to remind us, no trinkets to transport us back to that moment in time, memories of those we loved but who have left this world, we treasure them all.
It's the one thing in his life which won't ever leave him."On its surface, this seems like a very simple story about the special relationship between a boy and his grandfather, the many interests and loves they shared, and how much the latter learns from the former, as well as vice-versa.
But as you delve deeper, and read Fredrik Backman's almost-poetic dialogue and see his imagery in your head, you realize this book deals with the fear that comes from memory loss; the everlasting nature of love; how palpable regret can be and while it may actually be easy to make amends, how hard doing something easy can be; and the sadness of having to say goodbye to loved ones.The beauty of this story is letting it unfold without knowing too much, so I don't want to say anything more about the plot.
Fredrik Backman's writing is such a HUGE GIFT to many!!!
I'm a HUGE FAN of Fredrik Backman!
Thank you to Netgalley and Atria Publishing for the gift of reading this book]"Tell me about school,Noahnoah," the old man says.
Grandpa wants to know if school is behaving.It hardly ever is.
"Our teacher made us write a story about what we want to be when we are big," Noah tells him.
"What did you write?" "I wrote that I wanted to concentrate on being little first".
"Did you write that?" "Yes" "What did your teacher say?"  "She said I hadn't understood the task".
An old man, loosing his most precious memories, his grandson Noah, Noah and his son Ted, sitting on a park bench trying to connect, showing their love for this man who is grandfather, father.
The words, phrases, thoughts, so incredibly poignant, wrap themselves around your heart.
How do you explain what is happening to a young boy, how does a son help a father with something out of both their control?
The memories, the fear, and a shared love.
One would have to have a heart of stone to not be touched by this novella, especially when you read the author's comments at the front of the book.
To be honest, I was afraid this was going to be smarmy, but it redeemed itself by the end. The audio reader does a stunning job. Why isn't he credited anywhere on the box or the cds?!
Without a doubt.....A 2016 SUPER FAVORITE!I just don't know what to say.......except that I loved every expressive word of love, and every shared memory in this beautifully written novella.When Fredrik Backman writes, he really knows how to bring the characters to life and make the reader feel their emotions like they were your own.I just want to send a balloon way up into the sky.......Don't miss this one, and keep the tissues handy! (Thank you NetGalley and Atria Books for the ARC!)
In this incredible novella, Grandpa and Noahnoah (his grandson) have a very special relationship.
Noahnoah loves his Grandpa more than anything.
Fredrik Backman, is in my opinion, the most gifted author I have come across in years.
In this novella, "And Every Morning The Way Home Gets Longer and Longer" I found Grandpa and Noahnoah to be truly unique.
Noahnoah is so very bright, gifted and special.
Thank you to NetGalley, Atria Books and Fredrik Backman for an ARC of this incredibly beautiful novella in exchange for an honest review.
Such a beautifully written story of big themes like life, love and loss, but written in an accessible and moving way. Backman can do no wrong. 4.5 stars
FIVE STARSA short (under 1 hour) story that I listened to while cooking up a big pot of corn chowder this afternoon.
Narrated by the talented David Morse, this is a man at the end of a long life.
As he looks backwards at his regrets and loves, you see that life is nothing more than thousands of tiny moments.
What makes this story stand out is the fact that it is told of through the man's dementia.
You will see his memories the way he sees them: a little mixed up and confused, but the love is what always comes through.A deeply touching and charming story.
If a parent or grandparent I was close to had had Alzheimer’s, I think it would have been waterworks city.Joy Jar (summary):-Wonderful, poetic language, complete with great terms of endearment.-Wisdom about love, life, memory, fear, and death.-Great depiction of love between grandfather and grandson.-Offers a peek into what it must feel like for a person who has Alzheimer’s and for the family as well—the fear and love of it all.-Love that the story is autobiographical, and that the author had such a wonderful relationship with his grandfather.
The little novella packs a powerful punch.
Grandpa is in the throes of losing his memory, and each day he loses a little more.
This less than one hour read delivers a treasure trove of beautifully drawn themes to the reader.
We also see what is truly important in life, the power of love and family, the consuming nature of regrets, and the emotional desire for there to be a heaven even when the scientific mind says there is not.
This tiny novella stirred up more emotion in me than almost anything else I have read in the last year.
This is a piece that everyone should read.
5❤❤❤❤❤The morning I read this to my husband was also the occasion of our only grandson’s first birthday. I made it almost all the way and then had to hand it over for him to finish. Throughout the story, as Grandpa talks and struggles to remember for Noah, his eyes keep getting blurry. That’s what happened to me through the whole forty-five minutes of this little gem. We’re not so young anymore and are oh so aware of the ticking clock in the room. I seriously imagined that Mr. Backman wrote it j
I made it almost all the way and then had to hand it over for him to finish.
I seriously imagined that Mr. Backman wrote it just for us.
Well, of course he did, and I’m sure many mature readers will relate to it in a similar way.
In his opening letter to the reader the author tells us that it will be “about memories and about letting go.
It’s a love letter and a slow farewell between a man and his grandson, and between a dad and his boy” and oh boy we loved it.
So pleased to be approved for this ARC from NetGalley, Simon & Schuster & Fredrik Backman.
Video Review:https://youtu.be/WHBXMxd4QMQI think this is definitely a read that will hit some more than others.
With a grandfather who remembers me only occasionally when I visit him, this hit me really hard and boosted my love for it.
The actually story and writing is what I expect from Fredrik Backman after read My Grandmother Asked Me to Tell You She's Sorry.
It's written mostly with the grandfather, and as such, the story can jump around as Grandpa grasps at memories that he's having trouble remembering.
But in the end, this novella was both heartbreaking and heartwarming, and I loved it.
Backman delves into the failing mind of a grandfather and the young vibrant mind of his grandson. It's an impressionistic novella, that captures strings of thoughts and feelings about remembering, forgetting, remembering again, connecting, seeing the past, projecting into the future... I loved some snippets and passages. I liked the overall effect. Thank you to the publisher for making a copy available to me.
Not just a pretty cover but a charming and heartbreaking story of a father and Grandfather and his struggles to hold on to his treasured memories. A Beautifully written and thought provoking story that made me realise the pain and struggle that is a reality for so many people today and everyday who suffer or watch a lovd one suffering from dementia or Alzheimers and I think everyone who reads this book will know someone who has been punched by this condition.I listened to this one on audible a

If you are looking for a book that will have you crying in the middle of the hair salon (not tearing up or a single tear, but really tears-streaming-down-your-face-crying), have I got a book for you!
A beautiful morning read for me today! What a touching story about Grandpa, who is fading from Alzheimer's, and his grandson Noahnoah, and the beautiful memories Grandpa has from the past with Grandma.
All grown-ups are angry, it's just children and old people who laugh.” Memories are precious, they will guide you like a star when you are lost.
But what happens, when you are lost and you cannot bring back the memories!?
It doesn't matter who you are (and before becoming a "critic" of this book like the others), remember every one of us is going to be "lost", sooner or later.
Fredrik Backman's And Every Morning the Way Home Gets Longer and Longer: A Novella is about finding strength and standing by a loved one when they are lost.
This is an immensely and intensely personal story but one that can and really should be read by everyone, for most of us have, or will be, affected by one form of dementia within our family at some point in our lives.
It is good to get an idea of the wandering mind and remaining love behind the behaviors that can frustrate and put off.In one of the most life-affirming moments in this short novella, Grandpa says to his grandson:"Noahnoah, promise me something, one very last thing: once your good-bye is perfect, you have to leave me and not look back.
I suppose this is one of the reasons he has fast become one of my favorite authors.I'd like to share an excerpt where I found Backman going into a totally different writing style that's almost poetic, within these short 76 pages:"I miss the dawn.
The way it sparkled right across the lake, reached the stones by the jetty and came onto the land, its warm hands in our garden, pouring gentle light into our house, letting us kick off the covers and start the day.
There's mathematics in saying goodbye.
And mathematics in the most beautiful garden designed for the love of grandpa's life.
And mathematics in the love for a grandson, when memory becomes vague and life slowly fades into the ultimate sunset.
This novella is a love letter and a slow farewell between a man and his grandson, and between a dad and his boy - according to Frederik Backman.Touching, heartfelt, beautiful.
And it's all good, because there is mathematics in God and Heaven too, says grandpa.
We just need to learn how we want to say goodbye and be loved while doing so.
You can read all of my review at  Lit.Wit.Wine.Dine How could I could not say no when the publisher asked if I'd like to review this book?? Though I don't read many novellas, I am an absolute evangelist for anything written by Fredrik Backman. I would read his grocery lists. (5 stars, I'm sure!)I met the Fredrik Backman at BEA this year and was a little surprised to find that he's absolutely nothing like his aging, curmudgeonly characters. In fact, he's quite young and charming. I tried my best
Grandpa has dementia and is struggling to simultaneously hold onto his memories and prepare Noah for what is to come."Noahnoah, promise me something, one very last thing: once your good-bye is perfect, you have to leave me and not look back.
The loss of control and independence is overwhelmingly frustrating and saddening.Fredrik Backman has once again proven that he is THE master of creation when it comes to well-developed, unique, and lovable characters in literary fiction.And Every Morning the Way Home Gets Longer and Longer is a perfect December book club choice.
A touching novella about a grandfather who suffers from Alzheimer's and his grandson. It's written in a stream of consciousness style, which would have become tiresome in a full length novel, but was perfect in such a short book.This was both heartwarming and heartbreaking, maybe made more so now that I'm a grandparent myself. This was a lovely way to spend an hour or so. Highly recommend!
“Our teacher made us write a story about what we want to be when we’re big,” Noah tells him.“What did you write?”“I wrote that I wanted to concentrate on being little first.”“That’s a very good answer.”“Isn’t it?
All grown-ups are angry, it’s just children and old people who laugh.”“Did you write that?”“Yes.”“What did your teacher say?”“She said I hadn’t understood the task.”“And what did you say?”“I said she hadn’t understood my answer.”P.s. This will make you miss your grandparents if you have lost them, especially your grandfather(s).-------------------------------------------Favorite Quote: Isn’t that the best of all life’s ages, an old man thinks as he looks at his grandchild.
Incredibly sad and honestly too short. I'm glad I read it, but wanted more...
As the inside flap of the book cover says, "Fredrik Backman has rendered an exquisitely moving portrait of an elderly man's struggle to hold onto his most precious memories and his family's efforts to care for him even as they must find a way to let go."I don't normally cry while reading a book, however, tears escaped and streamed down my face from the beginning to end of this beautiful but sad novella.
The relationship between Grandfather and his grandson Noah is loving, understanding, caring and emotional.
Every wrinkle on my face is a good-bye from you," she used to complain.
* 3.75: 5 STARS  Consider the following...   * Grandchild:"I would rather be old than a grown-up. All grown-ups are angry, it's just children and old people who laugh".* Grandparent:"That's why we get the chance to spoil our grandchildren, because by doing that we're apologizing to our children". Fredrik Backman's novella definitely packs a huge wallop! The journey that the reader is taken on in a mere 76 pages is simply amazing. Backman presents a tale that soooo many can appreciate and find
Backman presents a tale that soooo many can appreciate and find strength in.
The story is beautiful regardless of the language it is written.Kudos to Backman for managing to deliver such a powerful tale in a small package.
Before reading the story, I did not know how or if it would touch me personally.
Who among us has not been touched by the senility of a loved one?
Either scenario makes you question your faith.If you are looking for a quick read, that really challenges you to appreciate your loved ones and make every minute count, this is the book.
