https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60147.The_Dancers_at_the_End_of_Time
"In short," said the alien, trying to make himself heard above a rising babble, "my people have reached the inescapable conclusion that we are living at what you might call the End of Time. The universe is about to undergo a reformation of such massive proportions that not an atom of it will remain the same. All life will, effectively, die. All suns and planets will be destroyed as the universe ends one cycle and begins another. We are doomed, fellow intelligences. We are doomed." Jherek yawned
"In short," said the alien, trying to make himself heard above a rising babble, "my people have reached the inescapable conclusion that we are living at what you might call the End of Time.
The Dancers at the End of Time is the name of  Michael Moorcock’s trilogy and also the name of this omnibus volume being reviewed.
It occurs to him that falling in love may be cool, and sets off to pursue an involuntary time traveling lady from 1896, Mrs. Amelia Underwood.
I loved the comedy of manners between Jherek and Mrs. Underwood combined with the psychedelic imagery and decadence of the End of Time.
It's available as a collection or as individual books: An Alien Heat, The Hollow Lands, and End of All Songs.First off, I will refrain from making jokes like "I'm always in the mood for Moorcock" or "Ladies demand Moorcock." But just imagine how funny it would be if I didn't.Many of you will recognize Michael Moorcock from his Eternal Champion series, most notably the Elric novels.
The bit that really tickled my innards and made me pay attention was this quote from the first book, An Alien Heat:What follows, then, is the story of Jherek Carnelian, who did not know the meaning of morality, and Mrs. Amelia Underwood, who knew everything about it.
The first book, An Alien Heat, is worth reading.
Jherek Carnelian, a man living in an amoral, decadent society in the far future, falls in love with Amelia Underwood, a conventional, moralistic Englishwoman from the 19th century who has been transported to his age through an accident in time travel.
The first book is very tightly plotted, with a tense and exciting ending.
Most of the potential inherent in the premise has already been used up by early on in the second book.
Though not generally regarded as Moorcock's best work, this series is my favorite. The prose is some of his most elegant and polished. The story itself shows Moorcock at his most spry, lovingly lampooning some of the themes of his other works, the romance genre, and English literary traditions in general. The settings and charicatures are also some of his most unique: a blend of scientific romance Victoriana and fin du siecle French symbolism and art nouveau, with a little Shakespearean flare added for show.



The first volume of the original trilogy, 'An Alien Heat', is an utter delight - witty, subversive, wildly imaginative and very well informed about the literature and culture of fin de siècle.
In-jokes abound - the Amelia Underwood isn't the poor woman who married George Gissing, and can Lord Jagged of Canaria really be Oscar Wilde (or is he just Mick Jagger or Mr Jaggers from Great Expectations?).
The later books diluted the original, as MM is always prone to write too much, too quickly.
Nevertheless, those of us more at home in the Dawn Age than the present will always be grateful for the fish tank that fires real fish.
one of the best books I have ever read, And the Inspiration for so many films (including Back to the Future)

Moorcock has imagined a far future where a bunch of human beings ( modeled after 19th century gentlemen and ladies and their haughtiness towards common life ) experience the last utopia: a few years before the end of the universe, when entropy has consumed all order existent, these beings are capable of manipulate reality by mere thought at a high cost but they obviously seem not to care after all they have forgotten how things actually work.
Instead of having actual feelings or preferences they simply mimic one they find interesting by inspecting the past of the human race.
Since then, like with Zelazny's Amber series, the End of Time has proceeded into additional volumes, both novels and short stories.
I haven't read any of those and probably never shall.The trilogy is comic like Oscar Wilde, a Victorian association maintained by the character of Underwood.
The crux of the story and of its humor is the decision of one of these descendants to woo a very Victorian time-traveller.If you want to test your reactions to the infringement of virtually all standards of decency, the breaking of many hallowed taboos, all done lightheartedly, then this book may interest you.
The writing / plot quality frequently wavered, leaving me extremely interested in some chapters and equally bored in others (basically the only thing that kept me reading was my interest in time travel). Unfortunately I felt the conclusion of this saga really let it down resulting in a rather average two stars from me. As always, your millage may vary...
Extraordinary imagination - few authors I've read could take things this far without getting inconsistent or just plain silly.
When she realizes her mistake, she agrees to send him back to 1896; her ability to recycle time means that she can function as a time machine.Returned to the 19th century, Jherek heads for Bromley, where Mrs Amelia Underwood lives.
The time travellers start vanishing, and Jackson, who finally reveals himself to be Lord Jagged (also Judge Jagger), takes Jherek and Mrs Underwood to a time machine that will take them to the End of Time.
When Lord Jagged offers to send both her and Jherek into the future, out of the time loop and after the end of the world to start a new civilization, they accept.

An unjustly obscure and unfairly underrated epic, showcasing Moorcock at his most inventive, uninhibited and vastly imaginative. A bizarre cast of characters exist, almost aimlessly, in the bones of a culture so advanced as to seem all powerful. You don't get the feeling the civilization died or was destroyed, more that it just grew bored with absolute power and simply wandered away.A tie in with a notable Moorcock character towards the end gives insight into who these characters may ultimately be.
I wanted to finish this book, but midway through the 3rd part I just couldn't force myself to do it. The first 2\3 were great and I really enjoyed it, but that last third felt like it was dragging on forever. I don't force myself to read a book if I loose interest, but I am glad I did read the first 2/3 of the book.
One of the most amazing books I have ever read. The names of the characters alone are so wonderfully conceived that it was truly a sad day when I finished it. Beautiful prose, interesting storytelling and a sheer delight. I have read many Michael Moorcock's books but this one is by far the most beautifully written comedic tragedies ever. I would give it more than 5 stars if possible!!
L'édition n'est pas très agréable à lire. Outre les nombreuses fautes de frappe, il y a des erreurs plus graves (inversions, heureusement rares, des noms des protagonistes lors d'un dialogue par exemple).L'histoire en reste très intéressante.
An Alien Heat - 4/5The Hollow Lands - 4/5The End of All Songs - 3/5
I loved this story. It was a good fun read.
I am now starting the 4th re-read of this book.
This mind-bending series is wildly imaginative, set in a dying, chaotic world where humanity can create, destroy and time travel at whim using power rings, but finds itself utterly bored until…
The complexity of time24 May 2013 Personally, I can't remember much about this book except that when I read it I felt that it was a little strange and could not really get into it all that much. Okay, there are probably people out there that will jump down my throat in writing a review of a book I can't remember (as well as reading 20 years agon) but my response to them is – BITE ME. Anyway, as I said, what I can remember was that this book did not thrill me all that much, but maybe because the
For instance if our perception of time slowed down to a millionth, suddenly it would seem like eternity to us, despite the fact that in the real world only a milli-second has passed.
That is what some people see eternal life as, that that last milli-second of our life never actually ends because our perception of time has changed.
Once again it is the perception that is more important than the reality, because the perceived time in our dreams is quite different to the real time that marches on around us.
Michael Moorcock writes all his books in a single, giant setting- the Multiverse.
All of his works- from the heroic fantasy, to the "Hard", sci-fi, to the absurdity that is Jerry Cornelius--all exist in a single universe- or rather, a set of universes.
Meanwhile, the reader gets to experience The World at The End of Time.
Whereas Jerry Cornelius took the modern world and threw the absurd at it, The End of Time gives us the few surviving members of the human race- immortal and omnipotent, with power to create and destroy at whim.
The End of Time lives for new experiences.
"Dancers at the End of Time" is a fascinating, often hilarious book.
Donc Jherek tombe amoureux, et mettra les trois tomes de cette aimable diversion à établir un amour réciproque et moral avec Amelia.Pour cela, il visitera le XIXème siècle (deux fois) le paléozoïque, avant de s'enfuir avec elle dans une autre aventure temporelle.Il n'y a donc pas de combats, mais en revanche beaucoup de question sur la morale (quelque chose que les habitants de la fin des temps ne comprennent pas), l'honneur, ou d'autres "vertus" (là aussi un concept vide de sens pour des gens qui ne sont que des esthètes).
A woman from 1896 is flung millions of years into the future, where one of two naturally born people exist (the rest are creations or time travellers), falls in love with her and on it goes.
The main character is horrendously naive, and there's a running theme of women-as-items, which may be par for course given the time Amelia's from and the time Moorcock lived in.
It also droned on for periods and I got a touch bored towards the end.
It's very touching and sweet.
The romance between Jherek and Amelia is quaint, and the growth of both characters was realistic.
The characters are so idiosyncratic as to be easily identifiable long before the plot and the themes become appealing.When it becomes clear we're dealing with the idea of players going back and forth through time and acting out roles in parts of history, the book becomes a novel version of the approach to living that Robert Scheinfeld teaches in Busting Loose From the Money Game: Mind-Blowing Strategies for Changing the Rules of a Game You Can't Win and Busting Loose from the Business Game: Mind-Blowing Strategies for Recreating Yourself, Your Team, Your Business, and Everything in Between.As a novel, it's not really enjoyable.
It's a book that tells you a lot about me as a person.BUTIt's not a book for everyone.So many people I've recommended it to stop at the first chapter.
It's the most optimistic story I've ever read.READ THIS TRILOGY!
IT'S NOT FIVE STARS, IT'S TEN!!!Afterthought: one thing readers will have to take into consideration with this book, but which I hope doesn't put them off or spoil the reading pleasure, is that this book was written in the 70's and contains various references that won't mean much to people who sprouted after that time!
