https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/560535.Shadow_of_the_Moon
Shadow of the Moon is a great historical epic, with love and hate, treachery and courage, set in India during the Sepoy Rebellion in the 1850s.Lucknow, IndiaM.M. Kaye takes her time setting up the story, beginning it with the parents and grandparents of the main character, a half-English, half-Spanish girl with the unlikely name of Winter.
Between this book and The Far Pavilions, Kaye's other epic about historic India, I've learned a lot that I had never known about India in the 1800's, and it's been fascinating.Indian Sepoys (infantry soldiers in the British East India Company army)The ending is a bit abrupt; I would have liked an epilogue or something telling me a bit more about the fates of the characters after the fighting ended(view spoiler)[, especially Lottie's baby!
Lots of trials and tribulations as our hero and heroine travel back to India, the meeting and marriage to Conway and the Sepoy rebellion, and vividly portrayed by an author who has a great knowledge and love of the country and it's history.
This is not only a story of two lovers, but one of stubborn, bigoted officials hiding their heads in the sand, treachery, intrigue and the brutal way in which the rebellion played out against the British, even shocking some of their own people.
Highly recommended for any lover of historical fiction, India, or just a darn good book.
Yes, I write these kind of reviews all the time, but for a book like this, it's virtually impossible.So, I'll begin and end with this:If Gone with the Wind was Margaret Mitchell's love letter to the old South, then Shadow of the Moon is M.M. Kaye's to historic India.
Under Kaye's pen, the unfolding beauty of India is revealed to the reader in slow increments, while the building tension leading up to the Sepoy Rebellion creates subtle unease for the reader.
The rebellion itself is both equal parts horror and heroism, with the characters you've come to know and love taking more and more of your interest and sympathy.
I fell in love with this novel as a 16 year-old and have spent the last nearly two DECADES trying to remember the name of it.
(I'm a sucker for romance, but dislike bodice rippers, so M.M. Kaye's modest style is perfect.) Shadow of The Moon is richly plotted and decadently described, peopled with well-drawn and unforgettable characters, bolstered by an incredible depth of background detail and historical fact throughout, and with overriding suspense which builds to a gut-wrenching last 200 pages.
You just don't find historical writers like M.M. Kaye anymore.
Or lovers like Winter and Alex, for that matter.
She creates a wonderfully vivid backdrop for the struggles of the characters--made even more compelling by the fact that the horrifying events actually took place.
The main character, Winter, is a European woman whose connections to India are established through several generations at the beginning of the book.
The male protagonist, Alex Randall, is a captain in the British army, and his love for India rivals Winter's.
These errors were glaringly apparent to a handful of men who actually loved and understood India, but their warnings were ignored and ridiculed.
Unfortunately Kaye then embroils her young heroine, Winter de Ballesteros, in an extremely improbably series of disasters that uproot her from India and transplant her to England where she lives a Cinderella existence.
Then, in an unlikely turn, Winter is betrothed as an 11 year old to a thirty year old fortune hunter making his way up the ladder in the East India Company.
(hide spoiler)] .Fortunately, just as I was about to give up, Kaye shifted the scene and introduced a hero--young Alex Randall, Conway Barton’s assistant who basically runs the province while Barton drinks and plays cards with assorted Company low-life.
This was the second to the last remaining novel in my M.M. Kaye reread. I saved The Far Pavilions for last.This book was fantastic. Epic, consuming and deeply romantic. Winter and Alex are a heroine and hero for the ages. The last 200 pages is unputdownable.
Some reviewers call this book a love story.
I'm not someone who has to have a HEA (and this story does end well in case you're wondering) but I DO need some light moments, SOME happiness.
BUT, if you want a happy little fairy tale that gives you pleasant dreams at night look elsewhere.CONTENT:SEX: There's a sex scene which covers one small paragraph.
It is not graphic by any means but in my opinion it is not suitable for YA readers.LANGUAGE: Mild to moderate depending on sensitivity.The 'N' word is used a few times (spoken by people who were in no way heroes), some B's and D's.VIOLENCE: This is a story of mutiny and there are massacres.
This book is mostly set in India as the 19th century Sepoy Rebellion against the British gathers pace and attacks with devastating results.I enjoyed parts of it to a 4 star level, particularly Sabrina’s heartbreaking story, and Winter’s neglected childhood in England, her long journey back to India, her new life there with the awful Conway, and her dramatic escape as the Rebellion took savage hold.So why only a 3 star rating?
In such a tense and distressing time, I needed to feel the story, but sadly didn’t.I enjoyed the vibrancy of the Indian settings, as well as learning about life in 19th century India, an era I’m new to.
While I spent the first half of the book having great difficulty sympathizing with the young, delusional, and allegedly enchanting protagonist, Winter, I felt compelled to keep reading for a number of reasons.
Winter eventually came around to become quite tolerable, but I read on and enjoyed because of Alex.
I can't say I was a big fan of the deep political aspects of the time period, nor of the bad combination of British arrogance and the oppressive caste system--resulting in the genocidal horrors that are eventually depicted.
I learned a great deal about India, and about the motives of a number of different peoples during that time period.
When I first read "Shadow of the Moon" as a young girl freshly enamored of M M Kaye's writing and my first encounter with her work in "The Far Pavilions".
Nor does she go as far as E.M Forester ( what's with the Brit's and initial names?) in his one an only work set in India not so subtly titled, "A Passage to India" which was widely praised as progressive for subversively favoring the Indian plight.
Shadow of the Moon on the other hand never feels over wrought with message but neither does it shirk its task of presenting the story of a deeply troubled political time in a complicated country.
And then, there's the characterisation of the protagonist, who's one of the most interesting leading male characters I've encountered in historical fiction recently, with flashes that reminded me of another favourite, Ashton Pelham-Martyn, also created by this author for another of her works.
But, on the other hand, there's the female character and her storyline.
Her characterisation made her a very frustrating protagonist to read about most of the time, and at least a couple of times I found myself wishing that the leading female would be someone else instead of her.
Just as good on reread, deserves every one of those five stars. The Sepoy Rebellion lasted for about a year and marks the start of the British Raj. With the uprising and a sweet love story plus so many characters to know and love (or hate) this is one of my favorite books. I'm at a loss to write a proper review. But do yourself a favor and read the complete long version, not the shortened original 1956 version!
i don't care if there's cheesy bits, i must've read this book through at least eight times, and always pick it up to look at on the rare occasion when i can't sleep. set in colonial india, there's riots and history and violence and, yes, a ridiculously romantic main plot. i am not ashamed. i love this book.
I was still too timid to try Salman Rushdie's Midnight's Children again after a failed attempt to read it some years ago, so Shadow of the Moon seemed just the thing.
It is about to morph into the British Raj when its power to rule India passed to Queen Victoria after an uprising that nearly bankrupted the world's most powerful trading company.Through the eyes of Winter de Ballesteros, half British heiress and half Spanish Condessa, this novel tells the story of the rebellion by the Sepoys, the Indian infantry soldiers in the British East India Company army.
It is actually astonishing how much political history Ms Kaye covers in a novel that reads like a historical romance.Winter is a typical heroine for novels of this kind.
I will say it starts out with the history of Winter's grandparents and then her parents and I while I definitely had to know what happened to each character I did find myself ready to get on with the story of Winter herself and Captain Randall.
By the time Captain Randall has escorted Winter to her betrothed( who was a horrible terrible man whom Randall had tried warning her against) you are dedicated at that point to the two main characters and are beginning to know the secondary characters as well.
The first book of hers I read was Shadow of the Moon.
Due to school commitments I think it took me almost a week and I hated every moment I wasn't with this book.
From the very beginning this book enchanted me.
Winter is such a strong character, but so human.
What could've been a one dimensional character evolved into, to me, an icon.
No matter how many times I read this story I can not help but feel everything she does.
This book is out of print, but you can find copies of it on amazon and ebay.
If you enjoy epic romances this is so the book for you!
The story is set firmly during the Indian Mutiny and doesn't flinch from describing the horrors thereof, although a lot of hero Alex's story line is offstage and he spends an inordinate time on his sickbed during exactly the moment when you'd expect him to be off fighting--mostly, I suspect, to give one of the plot lines its day in the sun.The plot takes FOREVER to get going because you get at least two generations of backstory at the beginning, although all that setup really adds to the richness of the later chapters.
The romance aspect of this book kept it from being five stars. Five stars for the historical aspect and three stars for the romance averages out to four stars!
It is an "escape" love affair for me.
I love it from cover to cover.
It is the story of the uprising of Indian sepoys against the East India Trading Company (and basically all foreigners), and the events that led up to that catastrophic event in the year 1853, 100 years before I was born.
There is a compelling love story that runs throughout, but more than that, Kaye gives such interesting detail to the British colonial mindset of that day.
I love this book.
For years and years, it was out of print ...
It is divided in parts that match, I think, different phases of the main character's life and the whole story (it's over 700 pages in paper editions) could be made into a saga.
The research for the sepoy rebellion is magnificent (of course, I have no idea if it's accurate, but it's definitely detailed), the characters are well drawn and intense, the descriptions of India are so beautiful that you can see it and feel it...
I need to stop reading all this regressive, colonialist garbage.
I guess I need to read "Far Pavilions" and just commit to the whole endeavor.Anyhow, I really have a love-hate relationship with this stuff.
You can learn an incredible amount about colonial India by reading her stuff.
You know, "life is cheap in India" and that kind of thing.Anyhow, I'm trying to be honest about what I read (even if it's crap) and I read this.
~ 4.5~A Heartfelt read.The introduction, actually the first part, felt long; the story about the heroines' parents and their parents and generally the back story of the character's and the time period.
Both main leads were interesting, the heroine more emotionally-driven than the down to earth-minded hero but nevertheless both found their way to my heart.From the beginning to the end, I had this cool feeling that I'm reading something epic.
The book is heavy for the content it has; the political situation, terror and because every fate of the character has a mixed happiness/sadness and tragedy in itself.I read it in a week but I must say the last part was really, as most said, unputdownable.
A nice contrast between the cool up right cold England with the more colourful blinding Inida, yes I got that one, yet Kaye did drop in some Spanish blood to make her fiery and emotional against the stoic Lieutenant Alex Randell (I think he was a Lieutenant he had that vibe).
But alas an 80 year old pensioner living in Oakley has more computer skills than I do.But the point I was trying to make is, that is the contrast I loved about this novel the usual over blown love story, with cads aplenty, set against this amazing back drop with it's sense of history and sense of place.
The characters literally jump off the page, and are so realistic it's sometimes hard to believe this novel is a work of fiction.
In my mind, Winter and Alex deserve a spot as one of the best couples of all time - right up there with Romeo/Juliet, Edward/Bella, Heathcliff/Catherine and Darcy/Elizabeth.Rereading this book once more, I pick up on little passages, scenes or conversation that were forgotten from the last time I read it.
I love how the book changes from Alex's view, to Winter's, to Conway's, to Lou's, still remaining in 3rd person.
It showed up in my Updates feed here on GR because Hannah is reading it and I thought I remembered it after reading just the title but was sure after reading the little blurb.
I used to have a little collection of M.M.Kaye I started back in the 80's after a knee injury kept me off my feet for weeks.
It all began with The Far Pavilions of course and that led to a mad scramble to read all her books set in INdia.
(That whole India love affair began in 1979 with the Secret Garden) I will have to poke around here and find this one.
Wonderful story and a good background history of the Sepoy Mutiny in India. Highly recommended to all my friends.
I literally felt as though I was sitting by a fire on a cold winter's day as she spun an epic, romantic, thrilling tale of the hot plains of India, its troubled past and present, and the lives caught up in its turmoil.
I felt the suffocating heat, the tensions of unrest within the country, the frustrations of Captain Alex Randall in his quest to prevent a sure calamity, and Winter's steady, sensible presence throught the tale.Technically this was Winter's tale; she the protagonist; her backstory the one being told at the beginning of the book.
Alternatively, Alex was stubbornly unwilling to define his feelings for Winter, which was entirely understandable.
There were so many opportunities to prevent the whole violence and cruelty.How did one stop a wind that had been whistled up by the blindness and obstinacy and egotism of men who imagined that it was a simple matter, and one worthy of all praise, to pry the East loose from its centuries-old laws and customs and force it into a Western mould?Again, like in "Far Pavillions" Kaye asked questions about loyalty and nationality."But we are not only our people - we are ourselves," thought Alex, "ourselves!
Although it took me forever to read this huge book (fitting it in between my reads for 6 book clubs), I really enjoyed it, especially when it was strictly about the sights and sounds of India itself and the interactions between the various characters.
The narrative would sometimes lose me in the intricacies of war and politics but in the end I found that it didn't diminish my enjoyment of the novel overall.
Winter was born in India and loved her childhood there.
As life sometimes does, it swept Winter up into a riot of emotions; longing, mystery, romance, and fear but she somehow tackled it all.
