https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34840184-the-perfect-couple
I hate to play favorites, but in this case, I don't feel like I have a choice. In my humble opinion, this is Elin Hilderbrand's best work yet. Combining her signature backdrop, riveting cast of characters and penchant for teasing the craveable local fare  with  the suspense of a murder mystery—you better believe, I soaked up every moment in the Nantucket sun. This year, Elin Hilderbrand lures readers back to the picturesque Nantucket island with the invitation to a prominent wedding. Until the m
This year, Elin Hilderbrand lures readers back to the picturesque Nantucket island with the invitation to a prominent wedding.
Turns out, something far worse than anyone could fathom—let alone the bride.
Through the investigative work of Chief Ed Kapenash (you may remember him from The Castaways), an unraveling of the many alibis and a host of memories from multiple perspectives, Elin takes us back to the beginning—to how Benji and Celeste came to be the perfect couple set to say “I do”.
A breath of fresh air—by Nantucket and leading lady standards—unassuming and uninterested in trying to impress people, she’s distinctly Celeste.
It also serves as the perfect place for a wedding, the beach and a murder!
Chief of Police Ed Kapenash is leading the investigation and everyone in the wedding party is a suspect.The story unfolds through various character's perspectives and timelines.
But just because one has a secret doesn't make them guilty of murder, or does it?This may be the quintessential beach read of summer 2018.
As the investigation unfolds and the stories and backstories are told, the reader may suspect several characters of murder in this whodunnit.
This book doesn't involve a lot of thinking, again, it's pure entertainment which makes it perfect for a summer/beach/poolside read.
The Perfect Couple is set in Nantucket, amidst the no expense spared paradise of sand, sun, beautiful wealthy people, privilege, secrets, lies and of course murder.
What follows is the unraveling of so much juicy deceit and so many secrets that you will not be able to turn the pages fast enough.
With so many characters and so many secrets you can't help but suspect everyone!
Hilderbrand did an amazing job unfolding this whodunnit.
This is by far my favorite Hilderbrand to date and one that will be difficult for her to beat in my mind!
The concept although sounding like a fun murder mystery on the island took on a stereotypical chick-lit format about half way through making me feel as if this book had tricked me.
What was slated as a murder mystery/whodunnit soon became a wish washy jumble of chapters about different romances of the many attendees of the wedding.
It was a patronizing and unrealistic love where the male in question would say belittling things like you're just so real compared to the women I know.
This novel basically can be summed up by the fact men are the worst and women are prizes to be won and then disposed of when the man is done with them.
4 perfect beach read stars to The Perfect Couple!
The Perfect Couple is Hilderbrand’s first foray into murder mystery writing and also incorporates some beloved characters from her past books.Wedding season is synonymous for “summer people” on Nantucket, and that is when the island is uncomfortably crammed full of people.
It is safe to say, there would be no wedding.The book encompasses the investigation as to whom is responsible for the murder, and I was surprised by the ending.
The Perfect Couple is a smart, inventive, dazzling, and successful work of light mystery dressed in beach read finery.
It’s a fast-paced and addictive story.
I’ve always kind of known that I respond to intensity, but I didn’t realize how much I love drama until I spend a whole day with someone who hates anything dramatic.
Not. Connect.So if, like me, you respond to drama and fast-paced stories, this is the right book for you!
It may contain over 450 pages, but I read it in two days, three sittings, and honestly I wouldn’t have minded if it had been a little longer for more back-story on the characters.
Library overdrive ebookMy first Erin Hildebrand book.I kept hearing “this was the authors best book ever”. In that case - I don’t need to read anymore.Pretty scenery: checkWealth, secrets, sickness: checkMany characters: checkShallow, Cliche, & Cartoonish characters: checkMystery, who-dunnit: checkSuspend belief: checkWeak ending: checkKinda enjoyable - in the way a kinda ok Chinese restaurant is ... with kinda ok food. Eat-able..... Readable! However, I prefer to pick another restaurant next time - well... you get the point!It’s all ok! Ok is ok!!!
There were so many things that I enjoyed listening to this one (Audible).
The characters were fun and relatable with some side notes of a little bit soap-opera inspired (which works in this story).
I loved that one of the main characters is an acclaimed mystery writer.
She finds herself smack in the middle of a real life murder mystery.
I kept wondering if her "skills" could possibly help her solve this murder or perhaps she was involved.
It entertained me and I was enjoying different narrators.
I was a little disappointed in the end.
Although it was satisfying, I was left a bit underwhelmed.
Whilst reading this amazing story was all I could think about, every time I HAD to put this book down, I likened it to having to put a film on hold and all the characters were paused, eager for my return so they could continue their story!!The fairytale wedding between very wealthy Benji and Celeste should be the wedding of the year, no expense spared and all organised by the grooms Mother Greer.On the morning of the wedding Maid of Honour Merritt is discovered dead, that is when you realise all is not well in paradise and that there are many secrets to be revealed, before we find out what really happened to Merritt.What was there not to like in this book?
The Queen of the "Beach Read" is holding onto that crown for one more year!!!!!The Perfect Couple has something I always love from an Elin Hilderbrand book - nods to characters from her old books.
My two favorite books of hers are The Castaways and The Blue Bistro and this one has tons of characters from The Castaways!!!!
Told from alternating perspectives and timelines, the story is told throughout the investigation as well as the backstory behind the couple getting married and their families.
The perfect summer read AND a murder mystery in one?!?
You need this book!!Thank you to Little Brown for an advanced copy.
I've read very little from Elin Hilderbrand, but the ratings have been so high with this 2018 release that I just couldn't resist.
The Perfect Couple was a great read.
It is an exploration of families and relationships with a death investigation as the backdrop.
Key word: backdrop.
But if you open yourself up to meet a variety of characters with wide ranges of histories, dysfunction and values, then you might end up really enjoying the reading experience.
Filled with drama, romance, mystery, secrets, complicated emotions and...
did I say drama?
Fast-paced and entertaining, I thoroughly enjoyed The Perfect Couple.
Can anything be better, the beach, the sand, the sun, the boats, the mansion, the murder...what wait....Welcome to the summer world in Erin Hilderbrand's The Perfect Couple.
It is the wedding weekend for Benji and Celeste, soon to be the perfect couple are to be wed.
The wedding thrown so lavishly and brilliantly by Benji's parents Tag and Greer Winbury, truly the perfect couple, will be a gala affair.
All the main participants had emotional whatnots going on and we find that perfection is not something any of them really carry around.
I loved this book!!!!!The Perfect Couple begins with a celebration proceeding a wedding the next day. The maid of honor is discovered the next day, dead.The police is called to investigate whether there was foul play. What they learn is that the privileged in their sleepy town of Nantucket, have secrets. There are many potential suspects and motives and I have to admit, by 98% into the story, I still hadn't figured it out. But by the time I got to the end, I still wanted more.
Fantastic story! It captivated me from page 1 followed by SO SO many secrets and SO SO many twists. I didn't know which character to suspect. Her characters were complicated and imperfect (despite their wealth). They were also brought to life and made you care about them (well some of them). Loved this new genre Elin wrote and I'm ready for more! What’s not to love: beautiful Nantucket, wealth, scandal, love, lies, and a dead body. 4.5★s!
Compelling, mysterious, and deliciously entertaining!The Perfect Couple takes us to the beautiful island of Nantucket and into the lives of the rich and famous Winburys as they gather to celebrate a family wedding.
But like most families with privilege, power, and money everything is not always as it seems and it quickly becomes apparent that behind the beautiful mansion and designer clothes is an abundance of secrets, deception, betrayal, infidelity, substance abuse, lies, scandals, and murder.The writing is effortless and fluid.
There were so many things I disliked about this book.
I've never read anything else by this author but she doesn't seem to be a mystery writer.
The police procedure seemed extremely shaky.
The cops spend one entire day "investigating" before giving up.
Is the author being paid for product placements?
I hated all of the characters, including the victim.
The book hops back and forth in time and among points of view.
I skimmed to the end but it wasn't worth the effort.
One of the characters discovers what happened.
The end.
I'm pretty sure that I won't be trying this author again.
Whew!
This was one twisty, turvy murder mystery/beach read where I swear I did not have the slightest idea whodunit until we got to the last page.
Bravo, Elin Hildebrand!
The theme here is relationships and secrets, and boy do these relationships have a ton!
It was like every soap opera you’ve ever watched on steroids, while on the beach, wrapped up in a not the least bit gory murder mystery (for those like me who are easily grossed out) that is well-paced and keeps the twists and turns coming.
Quick read.
Very much enjoyed this one.
Please excuse typos/name misspellings.
I’ve said it before and I’m sure I’ll repeat myself every single summer, but summer doesn’t officially start for me until I’ve read the latest Elin Hilderbrand novel.
A few characters from her previous novels are featured, catching up on their lives was awesome, especially Chief Ed as The Castaways was one of my favorite books.
Recommended to everyone, I’m calling it the must read book of the summer purely based on it’s fun factor alone but it’s incredibly well written and plotted to perfection boot, the ultimate summer read.The Perfect Couple in three words: Juicy, Secretive and Fun.
I was staying away from Hilderbrand thinking her books were female fiction, full of romance, which is rarely my thing.
The book starts on the morning of Celeste's wedding day, when a dead body of her maid of honour is found on the shore of Nantucket.
There are at least a couple of chapters focusing on each main character which I thoroughly enjoyed.
I found the realistic aspect of the novel even more profound by incorporating the little details such as the titles of the books the characters were reading, places they visited in Europe - all very familiar to me.The novel is based on the island of Nantucket.
Merrit Monaco was Celeste's best friend.Where is a better place to fish out scandals and secrets, than at a wedding?
I loved the ending, although many other readers were angry.
Light, but intriguing, glitzy but grounded, a whodunnit with Veuve Cliquot bubbles lightening up the other side of tragedy.The two books, this one and Did You Ever Have A Family by Bill Clegg, had a wedding as center stage, with the same mystery and magic of family and friends becoming unraveled and a tragic event exposing the under garments which support the perfect image.
4 Summery Stars to "The Perfect Couple"I've been waiting all summer to get my hands on this book and I was able to read right before back-to-school!
This book cements for me that I must get to Nantucket soon.
This one still has lots of relationship development, but a dead wedding guest complicates things.
Maybe from the outside there are some perfect couples, but by the book's end, much is unraveled!
If you've enjoyed Hilderbrand's other books, I'm pretty sure you'll like this one too.
I'm curious to see if this is a new genre for this writer or if she'll go back to relationship-only driven books.
So, I liked it, but I was expecting more from the conclusion. It took me until about the halfway point before I really started to get into it, and then I was dying to finish it, just to be a little bit disappointed at the end. It felt pretty anticlimactic. I have never been a big fan of this author - I just don’t think her books are for me, despite how popular she is.
The Perfect Couple had so many components that I enjoyed. I loved that there was a mystery surrounding the death of the maid of honor. The Who Done It, kept me on my toes. There were so many possibilities although I excluded a bunch of suspects from the first couple of chapters. I had a pretty good idea of who was at fault but in the end, I still enjoyed the delivery. So let me tell you what the book is about: Celeste Otis is marrying Benji Winbury. This is going to be the wedding of the year.
So let me tell you what the book is about: Celeste Otis is marrying Benji Winbury.
The wedding is going to take place in Nantucket were Benji's parents Tag and Greer Winbury reside.
Karen is also dealing with terminal cancer and she hopes to see her only daughter get married before the disease takes her away from her family.On the day of the wedding, the body of Celeste's best friend and maid of honor, Merritt Monaco is found and since every family member has secrets, it will be up to Chief Ed Kapenash and Nick Diamantopoulos from the Nantucket Police Department to figure out if it was an accident or someone did this to Merritt.Elin Hilderbrand takes you through the events happening months before the wedding by using multiple characters POVs. The web of lies, deceit, seduction, and death is one you won't want to miss.My one objection with the story is that I felt Merritt's death was an injustice.
Book club read #18. 10/20/2018.Finished 9/20... No way am I going to remember all these people 4 weeks from now when we meet to discuss. But had to take the book once the library had it available. Big hold list, very popular book. Popular author too but this is her first that I've read. Good for an escape from thrillers and wars. The ending felt unfinished; tied up rather quickly but I liked it overall. 3.5 stars rounded up.
Oh wow, I really loved this book! I have a few more books by this author listed on my TBR, including a signed copy of "Beautiful Day", so I will have to move them up the queue. I loved the setting and the writing style, as well as some of the twists and turns. Great story, definitely recommended to anyone looking for a more involved beach read this summer!
They are a motley crew of loveable and hateable characters, people I could picture being friends with and others I wanted to shove.
They were introduced quickly but the fact that you get to read various points of views make the story line easy to follow.
Hundreds of people are coming to their lavish wedding and they are the envy of everyone around them.
Every person has a secret to hide.It's a love story, it's a mystery, it's thrilling and entertaining.
Her characters are intriguing and they evolve throughout the story, they are dynamic (which some authors don't quite achieve).
Her plot line was told with alternate times and each period is smoothly transitioned and the reader is clear on this dynamic.I loved how she slowly reveals the possible candidates for being the murderer.
Upon revealing the murderer, I was totally aghast.
While nearly 500 pages, this works, there is little waste, although, I got weary of hearing about the songs her parents sang along to.
The work she put into the book really shines!
I’m keeping both reviews, though upping to 4 stars.I enjoyed THE PERFECT COUPLE much more the second time around, possibly because I knew the outcome and saw the book not as a murder mystery, but as a typical Elin Hildebrand book—complex, flawed characters, rich in flavor and atmosphere.1.5 STARS This review pains me to write.
The investigation shows most everyone hiding secrets that may or may not be motive for murder.I thought THE PERFECT COUPLE was going to be one of my favorite Elin Hilderbrand books, but it turned out to be my least favorite.
This was my first Elin Hilderbrand read but will not be my last.
Opinions expressed in this review are completely my own.Synopsis from NetGalley.com:It's Nantucket wedding season, also known as summer-the sight of a bride racing down Main Street is as common as the sun setting at Madaket Beach.
As Chief of Police Ed Kapenash interviews the bride, the groom, the groom's famous mystery-novelist mother, and even a member of his own family, he discovers that every wedding is a minefield-and no couple is perfect.
Featuring beloved characters from The Castaways, Beautiful Day, and A Summer Affair, The Perfect Couple proves once again that Elin Hilderbrand is the queen of the summer beach read.
When it comes to books that allow you to escape, Elin Hilderbrand cannot be beat.
She engages all of the readers senses and allows us to feel like we are on Nantucket, if even for a short while.
I always enjoy reading her newest when it comes out and I loved this beachy mystery read!🏖🏖🏖It’s wedding season on Nantucket.
An extravagant wedding ends in disaster and suddenly, everyone is a suspect.
This slowly unraveling mystery was like peeling back the layers of an onion.
I loved returning to Nantucket and enjoyed the suspense.
