https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/860560.The_Clue_of_the_Broken_Locket
My first childhood Nancy Drew....loved it and I was hooked!
I've read both the 1934 and 1965 versions of this book, and it's an unusual Nancy Drew Mystery Story for two reasons: first of all, most of the 60s revisions just condense and update the original story.
Broken Locket '34 is a pretty dumb, petty story of Nancy going out of her way to find the birth mother of a pair of baby twins because their adopted parents are total jerks.
If you're really into Nancy Drew and her various changes over the years, it's interesting to compare the two books, but if you have to pick one edition, read the 1965 Broken Locket.
I try to read (re-read) the Nancy Drew books as the ten-to-twelve year old girl I was when I first discovered them.
That was my initial reaction, but...Then I went back and reconsidered; read it as that ten-year old girl.
I must have been thrilled!So, when Nancy and friends decide to help a girl who has half a locket, and a family secret to untangle, and a wedding to plan (he's an up and coming rock star!) and who rents a cabin on a lake in the middle of nowhere to do all this - I must have loved it.

I cannot believe how many people get kidnapped, held hostage, tied up, etc.
I mean, really, people are getting kidnapped left and right!
This book has two children kidnapped, then their mother held hostage and tied up and gagged and kept in an attic when she tries to rescue them, and even Nancy and a friend are the victims of an attempted kidnapping.
My daughter loves them though, and since they are clean reads with no deaths or sex (the boys always politely go home or to a rented room when it gets late) they are fine to read to her.
Nancy Drew is full of bland, shallow characters, predictable and slow-paced action, and boring and unnecessary detail.First things first -- characters.
And then when she gets them back, after they've been ABUSED, all she has to say is, "Yes, I'm your mother, let me tell you all about it," and these traumatized children not only just wander peaceably back to the living room with her, but then it's like she missed them about as much as if they'd been in the next room all this time.
I cannot count the number of times I rolled my eyes at lines like, "Nancy and Bess, although sympathetic, did not comment.
Really cool cover and intriguing mystery (actually mysteries), with Nancy, Ned, George, Bess, Dave, and Burt.
Several mysteries for them to solve in this one - including from a long time ago!
Plenty of bravery and persistence for good in the book with them not letting bad people, as well as danger, stop them from doing the right things.
I read the book with friends and that always adds to the fun.
I mentioned on my blog what book I was currently reading and that got another friend's post about reading it, also.
:) Read my entire review on Hardy and Drew Mysteries blog if you like https://hardyanddrewmysteries.wordpre...
This installment is a bit messy - it felt like there were way too many things going on for a short book..... Ghost ships, kidnapping, ransacking, treasure hunting, child abuse, abduction, secret tunnels, record pirating, rock musicians etc. So while it was entertaining I feel like some of the side plots could have been dropped and more focus given to the main story ark.
"The young sleuth smiled to herself. "I wish that phantom boat would appear! I'd like to know what it looks like.""'Oh boy, hot water!' Bess exclaimed. 'Time for a relaxing bath.''Not now,' George said. 'Sleuthing comes first.'"
And these well mannered girls are not afraid of a little mud or danger in order to get to the bottom of mystery.I can see that the formula and basic characters after several books.
The beginning and end of the book referenced other titles in the series as in, "This as true from the time she had helped her father solve The Secret of the Old Clock..." However, the plot moves quickly enough and the mysteries are compelling enough to keep the reader engaged.Critical ReviewsNo reviews available.Other Bibliographic InformationPublished in 1934 by Simon & Schuster, Inc.Pages: 178Ages: 8-12
This is the eleventh book in the Nancy Drew mystery series.
The local police don't really have any respect for Nancy and she doesn't get much cooperation from them until near the end of the story.The story also involves inheritance and hidden treasure from the time of the Civil War. There's also a phantom ship, a sabotaged canoe, the broken locket, a hidden passageway, and the usual assortment of thugs who will stop at nothing to get what they want.Nancy actually has to deal with several mysteries at the same time which makes things a little complicated for her.
She also makes careful plans and has a very good way of tying clues together.Another good book in the series.
When I was nine, I picked this book up out of boredom during an extended stay at my grandparents’ house.
Browsing through my granddad’s old library of massive historical volumes and other classics, I found that this it was the only book anywhere close to my comprehension level.
My captivation with this book may have been heightened by the extent of the boredom that I was trying to cure.
So this book probably has much more of a sentimental rather than literary value to me, reminding me of the good-ole days at my grandparents’.
I've read both versions and they are both pretty good. The original is interesting because Nancy pisses off a maid and she tries to get revenge by planting stolen jewelry on Nancy. This woman wasn't even the villain of the story or anything so that was interesting. The revised is a little strange because Nancy, Bess, and George meet a girl and she immediately invites them to stay with her which does not seem wise. Also her cat's name is Satin which I kept reading as Satan. Lol
One of the very first Nancy Drew books that I ever read, and therefore one of my favorites.
The broken locket is my favorite Nancy Drew
I still love these books I read as a kid!
Typical Nancy Drew mystery. Good story.
Nancy and the gang do some sleuthing, stop to go to church, do some more sleuthing, Bess talks about food, Nancy gets kidnapped. It's all thrilling, wholesome excitement!
When I was a mere 12 year old, The Clue of the Broken Locket was the first Nancy Drew book I ever read.
It was the same year that the Nancy Drew movie (starring Emma Roberts) came out - and I was hooked on Nancy.Now, seven years later, I have re-read my very first Nancy Drew book.
which all happen to tie in with the mystery (does she ever find anything irrelevant?)The cliffhangers!
in which our detectives manage to tie up all loose ends because the antagonists happen to discuss every single detail of their dastardly plans!and how can we forget...
This was the first Nancy Drew book I ever read as a child. I remember the library did not have the book I wanted, so my mother told me to "Try a mystery! Nancy Drew is interesting."And that was the beginning of my entire childhood.
This was one of my favorite Nancy Drew books when I was a kid. It doesn't quite hold up in the same way for me - it was never going to - but it brought back lots of fun memories of how rapt I used to be reading this.
Interesting, but confusing. I had a difficult time keeping track of all the characters/places introduced.
My reason for rereading my childhood favorite is to solve the who's, why's and hows.. 11/11 so far. A welcome break in between novels.
One of my favorite books from childhood!!!
This is 1 of my fav ND's. I loved the settings, the cast, and the adventure.
The clue of the broken locket is the 11th edition in Nancy drew series authored by Mildred Benson.
And since I am a great fan of her writings this book also entertained me with the same Mildred factor.I liked the book to the core.
I actually wanted to read the original version of this book published in 1934 ,however I got to read the revised edition.
The original editions of these books published in 1930's are far better than the revised ones.
It has suspense ,drama and also some sad incidents.However , the best part about Nancy Drew books is that it always ends well and the reader is optimistic throughout the book.
Every now and then even a Nancy Drew has a twist that surprises you, and The Clue of the Broken Locket is one.
When Nancy’s father asks her to investigate why a riverside cottage has scared of the man who is meant to be preparing it for a renter, she discovers a den of secrets: A phantom river barge appears on misty nights, a strange humming noise fills the woods, the family in a nearby lodge mistreat their children, signals can be seen through one of the lodges windows and a red-headed girl flees every time she sees Nancy.
It is exciting and has a twist at the end I honestly didn’t see coming.
Award for the MOST CRAZY STUFF TO HAPPEN WITHIN A LIMITED AMOUNT OF TIME!This book in the Nancy Drew series is off the rails. (view spoiler)[Twins, more twins, a runaway cat, sleep loss, a music star, an invite Backstage (eeeek!)(but not like in the "bad" way), crazy teen fans, a "phantom launch," throwing rocks at houses, unlawful tenants, secret passageways, music pirating, kidnapping on multiple occasions, a camping incident, a marriage proposal, amnesia!!! (hide spoiler)]If I list every craz
(view spoiler)[Twins, more twins, a runaway cat, sleep loss, a music star, an invite Backstage (eeeek!)(but not like in the "bad" way), crazy teen fans, a "phantom launch," throwing rocks at houses, unlawful tenants, secret passageways, music pirating, kidnapping on multiple occasions, a camping incident, a marriage proposal, amnesia!!!
(hide spoiler)]If I list every crazy thing that Nancy and her friends get involved in, I would be setting off like "We Didn't Start the Fire" by Billy Joel.It all begins with a night watchman's resignation note: "Hire somebody else.
I'm scared."It's a must-read!
Don't be scared.
What is wrong with this sentence: "The door burst open and identical twins - a boy and a girl about three years old - rushed out." Hmm. Editing.
It matters.
That aside, this was a neat-o step back in time to when mysteries were bloodless and the detective managed to fit in proper meals and church services in the midst of sleuthing.
Even the rock star in this book was as squeaky clean as a new set of shoes.
I think I'll read a Nancy Drew every time I'm in a lag between library books and amazon orders.
4 Thanks-For-Reminding-Me-That-The-World-Was-Once-Cleaner Stars
This was fun, although like with the other ND books, I started skimming the end.
In reading this, I realized that the reason I find the "sleuthing" so unsatisfying is that Nancy gets an elaborate hunch, and then turns out to be exactly right, as if the universe heard her suspicion and conspired to make it exactly true.
Well it's GOT to be the shady people in the stone lodge!
She's GOT to be kidnapped by the shady people!
It's GOT to be the shady people too!
I realize these are mysteries for like, nine year olds!
