https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10579.Everything_s_Eventual
King once again romps through the realm of horror in “The Road Virus Heads North,” a gruesome tale about an unwitting man who acquires an eerie painting that seems to continually change in subtle yet grim ways.
Amidst an argument over divorce papers, lunch takes an unexpected, violent turn in “Lunch at Gotham Café.” Though this reads like classic King, the plot twist feels clunky and forced.
Given its absence of a running theme and the way the book deviates from a particular genre, Everything’s Eventual is a meandering collection of stories.
From a serious case of deja-vu 16,000 feet in the air to a moving picture that becomes deadly, King delivers stories brimming with imagination and terror.Overall, this collection was a winner for me!
4.5 starsThe Death of Jack Hamilton - when I started this one I really didn't think I'd like it, but ended up enjoying it a lot more than I anticipated.
4 starsIn the Death Room - probably my least favourite in the collection, just fell a little flat for me.
4 stars1408 - one of my most anticipated stories in this collection as the movie is quite popular (I haven't watched it yet, but now I can!).
I remembered it was in this collection but the only stories I even vaguely remember are the titular one and Little Sisters of Eluria.
I liked The Road Virus Heads North but I feel like I read something similar a long time ago.Some of the stories seemed a little out of place.
Also, the Mike Enslin in the book is couple notches higher on the douche scale than the one John Cusack plays in the movie.As with all short story collections, this one is a little hard to rate.
Do Everything's Eventual, Little Sisters of Eluria, and Autopsy Room overcome the drag factor of the stories I didn't care that much for?
"Yet for me, there are few pleasures so excellent as sitting in my favorite chair on a cold night with a hot cup of tea, listening to the wind outside and reading a good story which I can complete in a single sitting."Stephen King, from his introduction I genuinely looked forward to reading one of these tales each day, and that's the highest praise I can give a collection of short stories.
As with all of Stephen King’s collections, I’m giving each story a one-sentence review.
Maybe my story will help someone who doesn’t know they need help.While listening to this one (I chose the audiobook for this reread), I tried to remember what was going on in my life when this book came out.
What most junkies don’t tell you is how badly you need a smoke, a shot, a snort, a drink, or whatever, for as long as one year later.
That need eventually turns into a lesser want after the first year and you just have to ignore it if you’re going to make it.
The title of this story collection is deceiving, Everything's Eventual: 14 Dark Tales.
Except I don't think all 14 tales were dark, in fact I think this collection had more "happy" endings then most Stephen King stories.
As with all story collections there are winners and not winners with one loser(I'm looking at you The Little Sisters Of Eluria).
2) The Autopsy Room- explores one of my biggest fears.
The fear of being pronounced dead prematurely.
The Worst- The Little Sisters of Eluria- it made me never want to read The Dark Tower series and it was long for no reason and pointless.
Including the eerie story 1408, this anthology of short thriller stories is one of King's best. It took me a while to appreciate 1408 (I believe I gave it 2 stars on a separate review), but each of these stories has their charms and each one has a deep message behind the horror.
Well, I’m here to give this one a big, sloppy ghost hug of appreciation (technically, I don’t think that’s even possible, but I’m going with it).This would be my second read through of Everything’s Eventual - sort of.
In the Death Room - The ending is the best part of this interrogation, because as said in the afterward, it is happier than the typical.The Little Sisters of Eluria - A Dark Tower story, any fan will enjoy because it can be read as a stand-alone, or at any point in your personal Dark Tower quest.
He uses words to paint a world and mood and he is a master.All the You Love will be Carried Away 5 stars I know King likes to drive so I can only imagine he has actually seen all the graffiti described in the pages of this little tale.
There's no way to be sure it's Fletcher buying smokes at the end, but I choose to believe it is him.The Little Sisters of Eluria 5 stars Like many of King's fans I love Roland and his world.
Steve King is a fantastic storyteller, and very few of his stories have actually bored me.
It is the same with this collection.That said, very few of the stories here are actually frightening.
However, almost all of them are readable and most are highly enjoyable.My personal favourites were That Feeling, The One You Can Only Say What it is in French, In the Deathroom and Riding the Bullet - these were the ones which made me uneasy.
The title story is fantastically original and a thumping good read.
The Man in Black and Lunch at the Gotham Cafe also didn't work for me.Overall, an enjoyable collection.
There’s no doubt that Stephen King is great at writing short stories.
Not all of the ones that were in this book were appealing to me, but several were.
One of the things I enjoyed was how King added notes before and after for some of the stories.
For some reason that had an impact on my reading experience since it made those specific ones seem more personal.
I thought the short story “1408” was average.
I seemed to have enjoyed the movie more since it seemed to have gone in much more detail, so i was more engaged with the main character.
And it's clear --you're a great short story writer.
But you're Nick Cageishness works wonders in the short story medium.
And when your short stories fall apart, I can forgive you, because I know you're just a writer working at his craft -- just going for it whenever you can.
My experience reading this book was so good that I'm contemplating writing Nicholas Cage a letter asking him to stop acting in feature length movies and to just do two-hour features with eight to ten mini-movies.
When I do pick up another book by you, I think it'll be a short story collection.
That includes profanity and poor taste.
Every once in a while, you'll find something that tastes excellent.
I read this collection of horror stories after the members of my reading group--mostly women--caved in to the only other male in the group besides me.
Many of the women had never read King, and said it was time to give him a try.
Why has this American icon found so much success writing about the dark and fearful in American history and culture.If you don't appreciate horror, read his On Writing and The Girl Who Loved Tom Gordon.
Each time I did this, I was struck by the way in which King brings a certain quality to his writing that just plain makes him better than most.
He brings a certain assumption of the intelligence of his readers and gives us credit for being able to pick up the dark humor, the allusions, and the ironies he weaves.
Whether or not one likes his subject matter, King is a master wordsmith with the wonderful quality of not taking himself too seriously.
He takes his writing seriously, but there is no pretension in his work.
"Any fool who can pucker is apt to whistle past the graveyard."There were times when this book felt more like a trip through the Twilight Zone with Rod Sterling than the usual horror I expect from King (although there was still plenty of that as well).
They say fiction is stranger than truth and there are times when King (and I see the little smirk on his face) seems to imply that what he is giving us is just a make believe story but with that magical touch he has he is letting us know that this shit is as real as the nose on our faces...or the giant bunny sitting next to me.
Hey, he's real to me!
A strong collections of stories. I liked it better than both Bazaar and Sunset. King has such a firm grasp on the Voice and Tone of his characters. My favorites were those stories told in the first person: "The Man in the Black Suit", "Everything's Eventual", "Lunch at the Gotham Café", and "Riding the Bullet". I was surprised by "The Little Sisters of Eluria" which has a sort of sword and sorcery feel to it that I really liked.
*This review was originally published on my blog (http://jonathanjanz.com) and focuses on the story "The Road Virus Heads North" (though I've read the whole collection and certainly believe it's worthy of five stars). Here's the link: http://jonathanjanz.com/2011/10/08/th... Stephen King's Everything's Eventual is loaded with great stories. In addition to the one I'm about to discuss, the collection contains "1408," "Lunch at the Gotham Cafe," and a cool entry into the Dark Tower canon called "T
*This review was originally published on my blog (http://jonathanjanz.com) and focuses on the story "The Road Virus Heads North" (though I've read the whole collection and certainly believe it's worthy of five stars).
I don't want to give away what happens in this story, but if you've been reading, you'll already know that the painting changes.
And I felt horror during those last few pages when...Read the story.
Autopsy Room Four 3.5/5*Tema od koje se ja jezim , atmosfera je odlicna a kraj mi je presmijesan bio.The Man in the Black Suit 5/5*Old school horror. Jezivo i atmosferski prava poslatsica.All That You Love Will Be Carried Away 2/5 *Ima dosta smijesnih izreka , ali sveukupno ništa posebno.The Death of Jack Hamilton 2/5*Iako je kraj dosta tuzan , mene prica nije posebno odusevila. Previse mi je dosadna bila .In the Deathroom 2/5*Isto kao i prošlu i ovu sam jedva zavrsio ... nimalo mi se nije dopal
Jezivo i atmosferski prava poslatsica.All That You Love Will Be Carried Away 2/5 *Ima dosta smijesnih izreka , ali sveukupno ništa posebno.The Death of Jack Hamilton	2/5*Iako je kraj dosta tuzan , mene prica nije posebno odusevila.
nimalo mi se nije dopala .The Little Sisters of Eluria 3.5/5*Ovako nekako zamisljam kako je doslo do ove price.Izdavač: DObar dan gospodine King .
Imate li kakvu nove priču za nas ?SK: Ima ta jedna žena koja je zavezana za krevet...I: ALi gospodine King , imamo to već.SK: Hmmm , hajde onda neka bude muškarac.
Nije loše , ali kraj mi je bio nekako..
3,5/5*
I loved all of the stories in this collection. I thought my favourite was going to be 1408, but it wasn't, it was The Road Virus Heads North. 1408 is nothing like the movie, which I am super grateful for as the movie would then be boring.
Este libro fue el primero que leí de Stephen King, y gracias a los 3 cuentos que me gustaron es que 
I've had deja vu before, I think everyone has, and while Carol recognized it and was able to live within it and even almost predict the things that would come next, my experience has been that it's a fleeting moment of disorienting recognition that I only realize I've felt after it's already gone.
I loved the two stories that were tied to the Dark Tower series, "The Little Sisters of Eluria" and "Everything's Eventual".
What we do in love and the desire to please can have quite unexpected consequences.I liked each of the stories in this book, but I have to say that these were my favorites.
This isn't my favourite collection of short stories from Stephen King (I've enjoyed Bazaar of Bad Dreams the most so far, which probably doesn't make me in the majority).
Even King says short stories are meant to be read in one sitting, but some of them took two or three for me - probably I'm just a slow reader.
But there were only one or two that I found might be considered a "Dark Tale." Most, though, were just regular old stories, which didn't make them bad stories, but sort of left me disappointed in the end.
He has a gift for generating a sense of deep unease, and for awakening in the reader's mind some hidden, almost ancestral fears deeply embedded into his/her consciousness.
His exploration of the darker side of human nature, and his atmospheric tales that well transcend the limitations of the "horror" genre, are reminiscent of the work of one of my favourite authors, Edgar Allan Poe.This is a collection of short stories, some of them (such as "Autopsy Room Four", "The Man in the Black Suit", "All that you love will be carried away, and "1408") are pure brilliance, the Stephen King we are used to.Being a collection of several stories, not all of them are equally brilliant, of course, and a few are quite forgettable, to be honest, but overall this is quite an enjoyable reading experience.
4 stars.
I haven't read much King, this is actually only the second book I've read by him (the first being Gunslinger). I've always wanted to get into him though, and I think this was the perfect book to start with. Fourteen short stories, a King smorgasbord, so to speak. Some I loved, some I just liked, some just weren't my thing - but overall it was a great collection. Every one was well written, and even if a story wasn't my favorite, I still found myself enjoying it. Highly recommended, and I'll definitely be reading more King soon.
Sure, how it happens makes the story worth reading, and it was an interesting take on an actual event in history, but there really wasn't any suspense, any "What will happen next?"In the Deathroom: 3I was excited about it from the get-go.
It did feel a little vague and unresolved toward the end, but given the story I can understand.L.T.'s Theory of Pets: 3Stephen King said this was his favorite to write, but I just didn't get into it.
It's always difficult to review a collection of short stories and this one is no exception.
The titular Everything's Eventual is great creepy fun and L.T.'s Theory of Pets shows a surprisingly funny side to King's writing, who knew?The only stories of the fourteen that didn't really work for me were The Death of Jack Hamilton and In the Death Room.
Ironically I felt they were essentially the same story with only the setting changed.The Man in the Black Suit is creepy fun but I was surprised to see it was the recipient of the O.
Acho que esse livro, além de ter uma coletânea de histórias bacanas (algumas muito boas, outras ok), é um bom vislumbre do que o Stephen King é capaz.
Como testes, como se ele se perguntasse "que tipo de histórias as pessoas não esperam que eu escreva?".
Então é muito legal ver essa gama de possibilidades.
É interessante ver ele explorar vários tipos de medos, coisas que vc nunca tinha pensado antes.
Acredito que como um todo, esse livro é bom.
Em algumas esse sentimento é tão forte que parece até incompleto, ou apenas um prelúdio de uma história maior que está por vir.
Buen libro de relatos de King. Muchos son malos, sin embargo hay cuales son buenos. Los que más me agradaron son Sala de Autopsias Número 4, que es el primer cuento y, para mí, el mejor. Otro que me gustó mucho es Las Hermanitas de Eluria; fue muy lindo reencontrarme con Roland. Ideal para fanáticos de la saga de La Torre Oscura. Montando en la Bala, historia que había leído antes, tambien es muy buena.Por el otro lado, La Moneda de la Suerte no sé si no lo entendí o qué, pero me pareció malísimo.
Hace muchos años que leí los otros libros de relatos de King, pero creo que eran mejores, al menos ese es el recuerdo que tengo.Hay algunos momentos que me han gustado mucho, pero en general los relatos no me han enganchado como en otras ocasiones.
