https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10412.He_s_Just_Not_That_Into_You
Eh, I wanted to hate this book.
I also hated the idea that, from what I heard, the author wants girls to be submissive, never make the first move, wait until the guy expresses interest, arrgh!
Hated the idea, hate hate hate.After I read it...I STILL hate it, but only because, in certain sections, the author's right.
We're busy, we're intimidated, we've been hurt, but that doesn't keep us from LIKING people.
And then the author points out that we all WANT to be the exception, and how often does that happen, really?
I know a lot of people are pissed that he claims a woman should never ask a man out, because men like The Chase.
If they like you, I sort of doubt you asking them out will change those feelings.As far as I can tell, the only good thing about waiting for the man to make the first move would be that you know he's definitely interested in you, and not just going along with it because it was easy.
As a true feminist or pop-feminist text I wanted to feel that a woman, after having sifted through the pages, would be better equipped to dismantle cultural blockades that prevent her from feeling complete latitude in a coupling.Instead, I found a book that rallies women without suggesting a pathway that would lead to bona fide differences in their relationships with men.
Doing so, more times than not, seems to cause women to opt out of relationships early on rather than deal with any uncertainty on the part of others.It seems to me that the major fallacy of the book is its assumption that sex drives the man.
If loving this book is shallow, then I don't want to be deep.It's a really fucking simple concept, and it's entirely encompassed in the title.
(In economics, it's known as "throwing good money after bad money".) Reading this after your first or second bad breakup is probably a perfect time.To be sure, the last few chapters could just entirely be omitted, because they had gotten into the territory of repeating the same idea over and over.
I'll take the few regressive ideas with that intention.If you've ever sat by the phone, or some facsimile thereof, read this book.
Its a book that states the obvious to us girls, but we are too wrapped up to actually see the situation for what it is......it is, being that 'hes just not that into you', Ive bought this book for a few of my single girlfriends, or gf's in crappy relationships.
If youre making excuses for him, then hes not that into you.
And thats what this book is saying, THATS how it should be, no doubts, no excuses, no tears, no sitting by the phone, no trying to "figure him out".
Despite some of the book's repetition, I love how the authors emphasize their central message of recognizing your self-worth and refusing to settle for someone who makes you doubt yourself.
Essentially: do not settle for a man (or any human) who makes you wonder if he (or they) likes you.
He's Just Not That Into You advocates for never settling and for only engaging in relationships with people who care about you and can show it.I wish the authors of this book had expanded the depth of their writing.
To borrow a phrase from every 4th grade in America: You're just a big girl, Pete.I need to stop asking 4th graders what they think of me and allowing them to respond via email.Because business is boring, I just want to talk about this book in terms of relationships.
Think about it, very few people look back and say, "The one time I took a chance on something I really wanted, I totes regret that shit." So there you go, food for thought.Relationships.I gave this book a 3-er because it's written nicely.
At first I thought it was interesting, that she was questioning his relationship advice, trying to point out that not all men are pigs, with hidden agendas, mommy issues, secretly set on using and abusing all women in their paths, because someone, at some point in their lives did them wrong.
Greg aka self proclaimed Love Guru, takes her's "there is nothing wrong with that" and raises her with "Do you really want a man who is so lazy that he doesn't even bother to talk to you?
cewek juga boleh dong mengejar pria yang diinginkannya ;Dsoalnya kalo persi saya begini greg:cinta itu seperti sepakbola.
perlu konsentrasi tinggi sama lawan yang sedang kita hadapi..salah langkah dikit harus atur ulang strategi :Dcinta itu seperti berenang.
harus selaras antara ngambil nafas dan gaya yang sedang dimainkan..kalo enggak tar keselek aer XDcinta itu seperti basket.
untuk memukau lawan ;Dni tak kalah penting greg,cinta juga harus seperti voli.
kalau perlu diubah strateginya dengan mengendurkan sedikit serangan dan lakukan operan-operan pendek, dengan begitu kita bisa tetap bergerak, merangsek sedikit demi sedikit, kemudian temukan posisi yang tepat untuk melakukan shooting!"owkeh, terima kasih bung coel.
kalau menurutmu dia itu numero uno, pria yang sangat kamu impi-impikan, gak ada salahnya untuk dikejar.
"Seorang pria tidak benar-benar mencintai anda kalau dia tidak pernah berusaha untuk mendekati, menarik perhatian, menghubungi, menelpon, mengajak keluar dll yang menunjukan ketertarikannya kepada anda.
Karena sudah jadi kebiasaan buruk kaum wanita untuk mudah tersanjung dan gede rasa kalau ada seorang pria yang memperhatikannya.
Jadi ketika ada seorang pria yang mendekati anda, belum tentu ia jatuh cinta pada anda.
Ketika ada pria yang mengobral rayuan dan kata-kata basi : “sayang, cinta, honey, dear, etc”, itu tidak berarti pria itu benar-benar mencintai anda.
Pria lebih baik jatuh ke dalam sumur daripada harus mengatakan kalau ia tidak tertarik pada anda.
This book was really fascinating! Not only does it give good advice for women and let's them know that the excuses from men are not acceptable, but also how dating was very different 12 years ago. 12 years ago?! Like, that wasn't that long ago, but this book has a lot of differences in dating styles than I see around me today. It's just fascinating to learn about :)Also, this book is a movie but don't let that fool you. This book is nothing like the movie. This is a self-help book! Not a story :)
I realize it's been trash talked times ten in the media since it first came out but I do think it's extremely underrated.
As I read the letters and stories in the book, so much of my life started making sense to me!
The main message is that knowledge is power and even if things aren't the way you want them to be, at least if you know then you can go on to something else.
That was the main message that resonated with me and that's why I think it's a really empowering book for females.
If you date men, you should read He's Just Not That Into You, because this book serves as a reminder to make sure you're being treated with the respect you deserve.
You can read it quickly but the advice will stick with you for many dates to come.
Even so, I like to reread it every so often as a kind of refresher course, to remind myself why it doesn't make sense to "waste the pretty." My friends and I refer to this book regularly in our conversations about men and dating.
If s/he doesn't dig you like you deserve to be dug, drop him/her, stop wasting your time barking up a lame tree.This book is empowering - it has become my post-breakup manual, and my copy has notes in the margins about each of the lovely gents who, alas, were just not that into me.
(It's also been informative using the book like this because it helps highlight my own foible-rific patterns.)The only part I don't particularly love is Greg's assertion that women mayn't take the initiative & pursue a man in any way.
(sorry it is long)He's just not that into you if he is gayBecause sweetie, he is gay.Everyone wants to be loved and needed, especially by someone who is caring, who enjoys your company and treats you with the respect you deserve.
The "I Don't Need To Be Intimate" ExcuseDear Michelle, I have this gay friend of mine and we are so close with eachother.
He probably wants some physical parts from a relationship, but you just don't have the correct ones.
By Rhonda, age 40While snuggling with my gay friend, I started thinking about what I wanted from a relationship.
Disclaimer: I am not a fan of self-help books!When I picked up a copy of He's Just Not That Into You I thought it was going to be the story the movie was based on.
Rather it is a series of scenarios which Greg - our love guru, apparently - gives some black and white answers to.
I know this isn't a book for me, I am in a happy relationship with a wonderful man and beyond that, many of the "lessons" or "scenarios" played out in here are obvious to me as poor behaviour.
Good but not great, offered some insight to what I try to tell some girls all the time but it was a fun book to read. Strictly for laughs and not too serious, so don't take this book so serious....unless you are that girl :).
from this book, i learned that apparently, all 5473 dates i've gone on in the last half year, as well as the 623 people who i've gone on them with, have been completely worthless and i was stupid to think otherwise.
an advisable future plan is as follows: i must wade through a sea of unworthy men at a steady rate of about five dates per week, allowing myself to take no action outside of accepting or declining their suggestions.
i will, of course, accept his suggestion.
My co-workered referred to Greg (the author) as my "patron saint," and, for better or for worse, he's right. Greg has become the voice in my head when it comes to guys, mainly because he's always right. I wish this book had been around when I was younger, though it has become very useful in my 20's.This is a book I constantly pick up again, just to refresh my memory, and just to feel a little bit better when I'm feeling down ("Don't Waste the Pretty"). It's funny, it's honest, and it's always right.
I didn't even finish it.I thought it was going to be an empowering book about women taking control of their choices, but instead i found a book that is just plain sexist.I've never HATED a book before, but this might as well be my first.So, ALL men are moved by sex?
Because that's how we are.So, I just thought this book was pure and utterly -and pardon me for my vocabulary- shit.Don't let man treat you like dirt, take control of your own life.
While I don't necessarily agree with everything in the book, I get what the author is saying.This slim, one hundred sixty-five page volume of humor, honesty, and tough love has given me an interesting outlook on relationships, men, women, and priorities.Reading HJNTIY cracked me up as much as it opened my eyes.
This book isn't about the hows and whys -- it's about realizing your priorities, it's about realizing that we need to move forward, it's about coming to terms with the myth of "mixed messages."Women can run themselves ragged over-analyzing.
HJNTIY makes me realize I'm never going to understand men.
Women believe they are getting mixed signals from men, when really, the only thing they need to understand is that the absence of the right positive signals = negative signals.
But I have to admit that I also listened and rolled my eyes at my former self, realizing I have totally been that girl who is NOT GETTING the fact that this guy doesn't want me.I'm left wondering how I would have responded to this book if it had come out when I was single and genuinely in the midst of some of this men angst.
It's just frustrating to read all these letters from women who have let such bullshit go on for so long, and Greg's response is pretty much the same every time.Also, the book assumes you want a serious relationship.
I assume that most women are smart enough to know the difference between dating around and getting played by several guys at a time.I really hope women aren't reading the information in this book like it's news.
It's been a long time since I've read such a book, but maybe I needed to (if only to remember how far I've come!).
I loved this book!
If you only take one message away from this book let it be this: You are beautiful, you are worthy of being loved.
Greg and Liz provide many examples of what love does NOT look like and while their tales are used to teach, they also entertain.
I would recommend this book to every woman on this planet as its big aim is to help inflate women's self esteem, but I'd also go so far as to recommend this book to EVERYBODY because I'm a pop culture fiend and I believe there is value to be found in the things that the masses find interesting.
Single girls need to be reading this book probably about once a year, just in case no one in your life is reminding you how amazing you are. Don't waste the pretty on anyone who doesn't truly appreciate you and all that you are.Merged review:Single girls need to be reading this book probably about once a year, just in case no one in your life is reminding you how amazing you are. Don't waste the pretty on anyone who doesn't truly appreciate you and all that you are.
Either way, it finally got me to buy myself the book which were already published in 2004, and reprinted for the second time 4 years ago.
Hefty doses of humor from the Y chromosomes’s mouth.Behrendt and Tucillo clasify the so-called-writings into 11 main and ‘common excuses’ coming out from men—ranging from the basic meaning of telephone use in relationship to the unavailability of the guy with various insane reasons.
As if the book was not complete already, Tucillo puts her best into a final chapter titled “Life after He’s Just Not That Into You”.Not only work as a self-help book, this piece actually deserves more to be labeled as the self-development or, empowerment tools for girls.
I read this book a few years ago, after dating jerk after jerk.
It helped wake me up to the part I was playing in allowing myself to be treated badly by jerks.
It's the slap in the face every girl needs who ever made an excuse for a lame guy in her life.
The book is split into sections that decode mysterious boy behavior, gives some real life examples, and tells how you should and should NOT deal with the scenario.
It's sort of like having your best guy friend read you the riot act.
Funny, insightful, and brutally honest, Greg Behrendt's He's Just Not That Into You: The No-Excuses Truth to Understanding Guys is a true winner! Ever wondered what guys secretly mean by their words and actions? Greg gives a man's perspective on life, love and dating that is certainly an eye-opener for females. But the highlight of this book has to be Greg's overall message: that if he's just not that into you...then it's his loss. Because you're smart, sassy, and beautiful just the way you are :)**NB: There is some mature language and themes discussed. Recommended for readers 17/18yrs+ **
He's just not that into you has reinforced the teachings of my father and my best friends.
Which I have to point out, the teachings that I never followed.
I was the girl who would find a guy that would always make me feel worse about myself and dull down my idea of happiness when I was more than capable of finding happiness on my own.
I would rather live life with me loving myself, being happy and enjoying the company of my family and friends then finding myself stooping down to a self destruction level with a guy who doesn't care.
3.5This is obviously a funny self help book I have no excuse to be reading honestly, but it was fun and quick and I got it for free from audible. I can't give it a higher rating since it wasn't life changing or too personal, but I'd still recommend it to literally every woman ever.
