https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/123698.The_Psychedelic_Experience
I remember reading this in high school.
Bought it at a cool hippie shop in downtown Indy and finished it in the fall of my senior year.
Had an intense night the day I finished it and found enlightenment in a closet.
Rushed to the bookstore the next day and randomly picked out Be Here Now, written by Ralph Metzner, Ram Dass, who hung with Leary.
Also, as a side note, some boys that teased me mercilessly all through high school saw me reading this book in class and thought I was cool for the rest of the year.
Timothy Leary gets hate from all sides.
He gets hate from squares for the obvious reasons.
But he also gets hate from hippies, heads, and others who might form his own community because they somehow feel as if he gives them a bad image.
Because mainstream academics don't take Leary seriously, his audience wants to distance themselves from his name.However, Leary deserves credit as a fearless pioneer.
We know so much more about these substances now and MAPS is opening up the doors for even better research and a wider, more "legitimate" audience.
No wonder Leary refused to speak to Ken Kesey when he showed up at the house.
Kesey is a selfish hedonist, kind of a terror of a Jack Russell terrier, whereas Leary is a serene, sincere, wise, generous-souled therapy dog.Even reading this book while not on psychedelics was such a calming, reassuring, nurturing, and immersive experience that made me feel connected and serene and mindful.You must remember that at the very worst, you will end up the same person who entered the experience.
Whether you experience heaven or hell, remember that it is your mind which creates them.
Avoid imposing the ego game on the experience.
I have to admit, this book leaves me wanting to be a better person.
I also pondered recording the guides and meditating "on" them.
Maybe I am addicted to fiction, or maybe (like a previous reviewer said) Leary's writing style is downright pretentious.
I couldn't help but thinking, "wow, this used to be legal." Leary wrote this as a guide because he wanted to help people through the process.
Contained herein is the key to experience life after death while still living in the same body, as hinted at in John 4.
English translations do not carry the essence to American audiences as pure as American interpretations.
It was for this reason that people hearing of the results of the American version of The "Tibetan Book of the Dead", called "The Psychedelic Experience", were disappointed when they dead-ended in the English versions.
Here is a guidebook to take you through the realms of consciousness of death and birth and bring you back the same day.
A fascinating explanation and step-by-step account of hallucination, Leary, Metzner, and Alpert's The Psychedelic Experience creates and explains an interesting philosophy of what occurs in the mind when it is in a hallucinogenic state. As a writer, this book helped me to understand that even the most organic and seemingly fluid things can, in some way, be broken down and examined in a way that can make sense of them; there is always a way to organize the stories inherent in reality, no matter how chaotic it may seem.
If you want to experiment with psychedelics, this is it. User's manual. Now, I would be first in line if I wasn't so afraid of spiders, and in psychedelic experience you pretty much get what you expect. Damn.
Any behavior not having these nine features is non-game: this includes physiological reflexes, spontaneous play, and transcendent awareness.”) who are ready for a deeper life, though I think it would be enough to simply set up in a loving environment, and know that fear is never the way.Note: I think a book like "The Power of Now" or "A New Earth" by Eckhart Tolle would be something wonderful to read in preparation instead of Timothy Leary's "The Psychedelic Experience", because it teaches ego-death, as well as "Nonresistance, Nonjudgement, Nonattachment" which are perfect "practices" to take into any instance of life, and he gives examples and other teachings that work in both a psychedelic and general life setting.
Reading this was like repeatedly running into a wall of bullshit
It is hard to rate this; I'm just glad it exists.
I should have read the Tibetan Book of the Dead before reading this.In saying that, as a stand-alone piece of work 'The Psychedelic Experience' seemed more woo-woo than substance. My expectations were more along the lines of a 'psychedelic how-to' - touching base on the benefits of these drugs on cognitive function and spirituality. It didn't live up to these expectations.

It must be stressed that I am not a fan of shortcuts to enlightenment.
The karmic system supports this understanding.
It feels to me like treating the symptoms instead of disease.
Say you get exposed to enlightenment.
But your life systems and behaviors have not been conditioned to support an enlightened state.
You will continue to muddy up your life with ego games and the like.
As for the use of those actually involved in spiritual practice, I feel it could be beneficial for they that are already on the path, and working towards enlightenment in their daily life.
First, I would like to get this out of the waythis book is a MANUAL, a GUIDE, NOTHING ELSEThe book i
An eye opening interpretation of the Tibetan Book of the Dead which seeks to both explain each Bardo and their sub categories while giving tips on how to achieve enlightenment and remain ego-free when experiencing them. I will definitely be utilizing the instructions written in the last part of the book the next time I trip sit for someone. The book was very informative, well written and will be very useful in future trips as much of the information was quite analogous to experiences either myself or my friends have had.
A fascinating explanation and step-by-step account of hallucination, Leary, Metzner, and Alpert's The Psychedelic Experience creates and explains an interesting philosophy of what occurs in the mind when it is in a hallucinogenic state. As a writer, this book helped me to understand that even the most organic and seemingly fluid things can, in some way, be broken down and examined in a way that can make sense of them; there is always a way to organize the stories inherent in reality, no matter how chaotic it may seem.
Maybe it was just because I'd been living alone in a seaside cabin for a week, but this book was way more interesting than I would have expected. Reading the original material totally subverts the cartoon version of Leary that has been handed down to me. I lowered my rating from four to three stars just because I'm now unsure of how many of the interesting thoughts I got out of this book were things that I brought to it. In any case it's thought-provoking, with or without a substance.
I wasn't high enough for this book. I feel like if I was super high on acid I would have appreciated this book more. It was interesting, but I feel a lot of it is impossible to absorb without the proper experience behind it. Interesting read though!
Do you really need all points of view and details?It mainly says that all the visuals you see (probably, particularly during a DMT session or 500+ microgram LSD dose) are just the lower lights - as far as the human mind can go.
You can get slight, closed eye visuals and patterns with it, ranging from mathematical girds to strange characters, although they aren't exactly animated or alive.With psychedelics such as acid, DMT, or psilocybin, you can get straight, overt alien contact.
In this book it is hypothesized they are human ancestors, in strange form.
But saying that helps one stay calm so they don't freak out, a risk which happens when certain people get too stoned off psychedelics.
An interesting book that, more than the average literature, is more personal than it should be.
And to be fair, one has to wonder, especially considering that Timothy Leary's first experience with psychedelics was in the meso-American region, why did he not base his teachings on the folklore surrounding psychedelics of that region, going instead for the much more accessible and pop-esoteric Buddhist teachings.Deep down, it is an interesting book to read with an open mind and under the suggested framework, but mostly as a personal guide and not so much as an absolute manual.
Timothy Leary presents important techniques and ideas for attaining meaningful experiences on psychedelics and the psychedelic experience, but has the audacity to claim that psychedelics are some kind "cheat code" that bypasses years of spiritual study and practice.
His tone towards eastern cultures and their spiritual practices carries a condescending tone throughout the reading, and his attitude comes of as blinded excitement at best, patronizing appropriation at worst.However, I do think that this text is important as a piece of historical documentation as to the spiritual awakening that was happening in much of Western society at the time, and as an introduction to the concept of set and setting.
Keeping that in mind, I would recommend reading this book.
In comparison this book feels heavy, over inflated and slightly preachy in manner.
Although it references the Tibetan book of the dead, it feels far removed from the sentiments of that superior text.
I suppose if you're planning on tripping on acid and want a half baked guide then maybe read it, but it seems to quote common sense such as tripping with a trusted companion and being in a positive space before tripping?!
I speed read through a lot as I got bored quickly.
DMT the spirit molecule is a far better use of the eyes in my opinion.
Instructive and, as someone who's had experiences in the variety of states discussed without any definitive guiding document, very valuable. I think Timothy Leary almost certainly lost his goddamn mind on LSD. With that said, I think this was written before he'd gone too far. It also includes some very interesting dosage recommendations... and instructions on how to avoid a bad trip. Definitely stuff you won't find on erowid.
I’m not sure I love Leary at this time; he may have cared about the drugs just a little too much. A good read though; good preparation. Some of the terminology can be a little funky, and I definitely wouldn’t read this and only this book before starting a journey down the psychedelic road; some more spiritual stuff and more general stuff preaching love and happiness would be good as well. Recommended for those who use psychedelics or are interested.
If dying is like tripping on LSD then we have nothing to fear, that's for sure. I wish I knew of this book before I took LSD for the first time. It's insightful and unbiased as to what the experience has and can offer for people. Every time I take a trip I will refer to this book before, during, and after.
It's somewhat repetitive, which is not necessarily a criticism, with a very reassuring tone.
Some of Leary's underlying assumptions are questionable from an intellectual perspective, but for the most part I didn't find them to be exceptionally obscurantist, maybe just a bit ambitious.
- Or maybe I just think that because I don't have the experiences to draw from that he did.
Anyway, I enjoyed his perspective but didn't necessarily buy into it and in practice of his recommendations it wouldn't make much of a difference to the experiencer, only his/her beliefs about what the experience might have meant.
This book is an interesting look at the mind set in the 60's established by Leary and others. I think the new introduction offers a lot of perspective 40 years later and really sets the stage for the writings of Leary and so forth.This definitely has made me want to read the actually Tibetan Book of the Dead and to really see how they adapted their psychedelic experiences to those teachings.
Essential for psychedelic knowledge.
A mixed bag.
ok. a bit out there.
