https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1831275.The_Hounds_of_Tindalos
well....I'll stop for now....let you find out on your own :)This is public domain, and can be found easily for free....the title story is quite short.
I recommend this for anyone interested in mythos, or for those wanting to read Let the Old Dreams Die....the title story is a must (one of the stories in that book is named after it)--or many elements may just go right over your head.****After writing this review I noticed that the synopsis has Long's mythos books in it....
I will read more and check back in!Free and fun!
To me The Hounds of Tindalos is quintessential mythos - and I have no idea why but I think the house are a fascinating monster.
Ironically I have artwork but Tim White who depicts a modern day hound perfectly and I think I saw it before I read the story which truly brought it to life.There are of course other stories in the book which highlight the skill of his writing a true shame considering outside the story what else is so well known about him.
Ironically the Hound of Tindalos was the first non-Lovecraft mythos piece to written, it cleared the way for the works of Lovecraft to life on and evolve and not just persist as examples of a now passed author.
según tengo entendido.Lo que recuerdo del relato es realmente perturbador, saber que existe una dimensión llena de seres cuyo único propósito es hacerte su cena es ciertamente temible.Pero creo que la mayor y mejor premisa de este relato es la forma en la que se nos presentan las criaturas, a través de los vértices que se encuentran en nuestras habitaciones, como las matas de cabello en la película de "The Grudge", así mismo y la verdad es que decimos...
Dark Vision • (1939) The Black Druid • (1930) The Space-Eaters • [Cthulhu Mythos] • (1928) Grab Bags Are Dangerous • (1942) Fisherman's Luck • (1940) The Elemental • (1939)Golden Child • (1945) The Peeper • (1944) The Hounds of Tindalos • [Cthulhu Mythos] • (1929)
Once your done with Lovecraft and have exhausted Bloch and Howard, Long is the next best thing to tackle.
3,5  Los perros de Tíndalos Esta es probablemente la historia más conocida de Frank Belknap Long, seguramente por su inclusión en Los mitos de Cthulhu. Debo reconocer que es el único relato que he leído de este señor, y me ha gustado bastante. Quiero conocer con mayor profundidad su obra.En Los perros de Tíndalos logra transmitirnos el contacto con otras dimensiones, de una forma muy original, y sus terribles consecuencias. Destaco especialmente la relación que establece con los ángulos como pu
3,5

  Los perros de Tíndalos
Esta es probablemente la historia más conocida de Frank Belknap Long, seguramente por su inclusión en Los mitos de Cthulhu. Debo reconocer que es el único relato que he leído de este señor, y me ha gustado bastante. Quiero conocer con mayor profundidad su obra.En Los perros de Tíndalos logra transmitirnos el contacto con otras dimensiones, de una forma muy original, y sus terribles consecuencias. Destaco especialmente la relación que establece con los ángulos como puertas de contacto con otros...
Los Perros de Tíndalos, es el nombre que reciben esos seres que habitaron la tierra incluso antes de cuando los únicos seres vivos eran los reptiles acuáticos, y que son capaces de romper la barrera de espacio/tiempo, es por esto que estos indescriptibles y aterradores entes siempre han existido, existen y seguirán existiendo.Un buen relato corto. Ese tal Chalmers me hizo recordar a lo chiflado que era el doctor de las películas Regreso al Futuro.
Entre mis cuentos favoritos de misterio y terror.Excelente obra. La narrativa es muy entretenida, fluida y atrapante. La epistemología de cada uno de las cuestiones filosóficas de los personajes es muy llamativa y reflexiva. El misterio de la conversación entre Chalmers y Frank genera al lector un gran suspenso del entorno supradimensional que describe el protagonista en su viaje temporal-espacial.Leí la obra con un audiolibro en Youtube, fue una experiencia gratificante por un periodo de 40 minutos. Se los recomiendo mucho amigos. Añadido a favoritos.
Excelente. Me encanto la profundidad y la sencillez de cómo se maneja la trama, dos personajes, una situación y una criatura de por medio, todo lo anterior convenido con el universo de Lovecraft.Los últimos párrafos son increíbles.En fin, un relato corto altamente recomendado. Aunque podría ser que a una persona le parezca frustrante el hecho de que no se da una descripción detallada de los perros, pero para eso existe la imaginación para llenar los huecos.
These would be the best of his previous published work in magazines like Weird Tales, Marvel Tales and Unknown Worlds The tale from which this book gets its name and ‘The Space Eaters’ were the primary reason that I purchased the book for, but the remainder are not only good, but in some cases better.
Additionally, Long gives insight to the stories origin, the publishing world at this time, and many of the people involved in that medium at that time.
Overall a well-balanced book over all, from the selection of stories, to the authors insights.
The author himself presents “The Early Long” and the not so-early Long. In fact, this book covers Long's first 20 years as a writer, and there's some brilliant stuff in there, as well as some other stuff. Each story is introduced at length by the author and there's also a 27 page introduction by him. Some of that's interesting, but damn does it take up a lot of room! The title story and “The Space Eaters” are both great stuff inspired by good old Lovecraft (“The Space Eaters” has Lovecraft and
The title story and “The Space Eaters” are both great stuff inspired by good old Lovecraft (“The Space Eaters” has Lovecraft and Long as characters) and I read them both previously in the DelRey collection “Tales of the Cthulhu Mythos”.
“The Space Eaters” even includes the line “You shouldn't project yourself into your stories that way.”	Some of the later ones, especially from the 40s, tend to feel a tad more like a Twilight Zone episode, a little too cut and dry.
While the collection is good overall, there's a few that almost make it but seem to run out of time, like “The Flame Midget”, which involves a microscopic horror from a very dense planet.
Cuando se trata de recopilaciones es difícil asignarle una clasificación que englobe al conjunto de cuentos de forma objetiva, pero siento que todos los cuentos (juntos) están a la altura de un 5 de 5.Un aplauso para los señores y señoras del género que regalan este tipo de obras maestras al mundo.Nunca había escuchado de Frank B.
Long, pero después de esta recopilación, estoy seguro que sus obras se repartirán en mis estanterías.Si quieres leer sobre criaturas extrañas que no dudarían ningún segundo en hacerte tu cena, este es tu libro.
Si quieres sumergirte en mundos macabros que la lógica sencillamente no puede explicar, adelante y disfrute.
Una historia muy buena que llega a ponerte en tela de juicio el concepto que tenemos a cerca del tiempo. Me gustó en absoluto el desenlace, muy bueno, sin embargo, el vocabulario es muy adjetivista y en opinión personal, opaca casi seguido todo el cuento ( aunque así es como narraba Lovecraft, no hay que olvidar eso). Aun así me gustó y muy recomendado, gran Oda al maestro del horror cósmico y tengan cuidado cuando hagan una regresión astral, porque Los Perros de Tíndalos los olfatearán por esos ángulos de tiempo...
Frank Belknap Long comes under frequent criticism for being a bad writer.
There is certainly something bizarre about his prose style and dialogue, but I think it actually adds a cumulatively disquieting and weird atmosphere to this book.
There is something genuinely unsettling, even horrific, about these stories and Long's disjointed writing style brings a nightmarish quality to the best tales here, including 'The Dark Beasts', 'The Space Eaters', 'Second Night Out', 'The Peeper' and the title story.
Hannes Bok's illustration for the cover is perfect, and despite ( possibly even because of) Long's strange style, I would not hesitate to recommend this book to fans of weird fiction.
Entertaining, but a bit silly and predictable. I still find the Lovecraftian habit of telling events from the perspective of an outsider a bit annoying, particularly when the plot requires that the one experiencing the events to randomly scribble on paper while waiting for or fighting inevitable doom. Sure, there are hideous angles assaulting me, but I'm going to keep writing things down, dammit!Recommended for a bit of light entertainment, and for a very odd synthesis of eastern mysticism with Lovecraftian elder things, nonetheless.
There is certainly something bizarre about his prose style and dialogue, but I think it actually adds a cumulatively disquieting and weird atmosphere to this book.
There is something genuinely unsettling, even horrific, about these stories and Long's disjointed writing style brings a nightmarish quality to the best tales here, including 'The Dark Beasts', 'The Space Eaters', 'Second Night Out', 'The Peeper' and the title story.
Hannes Bok's illustration for the cover is perfect, and despite ( possibly even because of) Long's strange style, I would not hesitate to recommend this book to fans of weird fiction.
Se siente el horror recorrer tu ser mientras tratas de imaginar lo descrito en la historia, tratar de imaginar lo imaginable y sentir que corre hacia ti mientras observabas los ángulos de tu habitación. Gran historia del terror cósmico
Muy descriptiva la narrativa para ser ficcion, me gusto mucho
Nice, short, horror story! Kinda impressed that the professor managed to write so eloquently while being decapitated, but that's early 20th century horror!
Some times books written in the past, are best left in the past...
Estos son los delirios de un tipo drogado, o quizás es la verdad que se esconde en la cuarta dimensión. Muy divertido.
A bad drug trip becomes a Lovecraftian nightmare through time gone wrong.
Strange introduction to the weird horror genre.
The story begins when Frank, the narrator, visits his friend Halpin Chalmers, author and occultist. Chalmers has the soul of a medieval ascetic, but reveres Einstein as a priest of transcendental mathematics. His wild theories about time and space strike Frank as theosophical rubbish. Chalmers has acquired a drug which he claims Lao Tze used to envision Tao. He means to combine those occult perceptions with his own mathematical knowledge, to travel back in time. Frank is against his friend taking the liao, but agrees to guard him and to note what he says under its influence...
Stephen King recommended author and book. In 1981's Danse Macabre, King dedicated his book as follows: "It's easy enough - perhaps too easy - to memorialize the dead. This book is for the six great writers of the macabre who are still alive." The six listed were Robert Bloch, Jorge Luis Borges, Ray Bradbury, Frank Belnap Long, Donald Wandrei, Manly Wade Wellman.King mentioned this book in Chapter 3 of Berkley's 1983 paperback edition of Danse Macabre.
As a fan of H.P Lovecraft and the ever expanding mythos he fathered I wanted to read the story responsible for introducing the Hounds of Tindalos. The hounds in question are hungry time traveling monstrosities that stop at nothing to hunt down humans who trespass in their realm by traveling through angles. From what I knew of the hounds going in I had somewhat high expectations for this short story but Long's rather straightforward writing style does little in the way of show casing them.
Referencias a la Divina Comedia, referencias a muchísimas obras de la historia. Un científico loco, un final aterrador, me hace sentir miedo sobre el mismo lugar donde me encuentro sentado, tal vez en la infinidad del cosmos los perros de Tíndalos están viviendo velozmente para atraparnos a todos a través de las esquinas de nuestro planeta. No lo sé, pero debes leerlo.
Referencias a la Divina Comedia, referencias a muchísimas obras de la historia. Un científico loco, un final aterrador, me hace sentir miedo sobre el mismo lugar donde me encuentro sentado, tal vez en la infinidad del cosmos los perros de Tíndalos están viviendo velozmente para atraparnos a todos a través de las esquinas de nuestro planeta. No lo sé, pero debes leerlo.
Referencias a la Divina Comedia, referencias a muchísimas obras de la historia. Un científico loco, un final aterrador, me hace sentir miedo sobre el mismo lugar donde me encuentro sentado, tal vez en la infinidad del cosmos los perros de Tíndalos están viviendo velozmente para atraparnos a todos a través de las esquinas de nuestro planeta. No lo sé, pero debes leerlo.
Very promising start, with the first story almost masterful. It soon descends into pulp though; probably heavily edited and certainly with a focus on getting as much story down in as few words as possible. I think he might've done better at long-form writing. I think Stephen King referred to him at some point, and to some extent I see him as taking over from Long.
