https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24779.The_Castle_of_Llyr
«ایلونوی»، پرنس جوان، دوست دارد همانکه هست بماند، اما «دالبن» میاندیشد: «زن بودن رموزی دارد، که حتی یک افسونگر پیر نیز از درک آن عاجز است».
همراهان در راه مبارزه برای نجات دختر، با خطرات گوناگون روبرو میشوند؛ و درمییابند که: حتی جثه ی عظیم، و توانایی فراوان یک غول هم، در برابر نیروی فکر، و همیاری انسانها، بسیار ناچیز است؛ تا آنجا که غول نادان را، همچون کرمی کوچک، و بی ارزش میبینند.
دخترک نیز، پس از پشت سر گذاشتن ماجراهایی بسیار هیجان انگیز، به این نتیجه ی مهم میرسد، که: «باید خود، راه زندگی خویش را پیدا کند، و بفهمد کدامیک برایش مهمتر است: یک زن جوان بودن، یا افسونگر بودن؟» و ...
The Castle of LlyrAn attempt to find a princessStolen by a cold enchantressTurns into a gruelling contestWith giant cats who take an instantTo devour one (giant or infant);And Prince Rhun, inept assistant,Finds a book to hold the interest,Though it won’t submit to inquestAs the pages have no index,No, nor contents, nor appendix.But its secrets draw them in lessThan the outcome of their dim quest.
He is a romantic rival to Taran, yet neither the Prince nor Eilonwy truly know it, and Rhun is actually thoroughly likeable -- a rare quality in romantic rivals, and an element of the story for which Lloyd Alexander should be celebrated.
He rubs Taran the wrong way because he is so foolish and naive, yet if Taran were not so stubborn and hotheaded Rhun might not provoke as strong of a reaction as he does; in the end, even Taran acknowledges the goodness and bravery in the Prince, and though he still proves vexing, Taran counts him as a friend.Such a great book!
Jos jedna simpaticna knjizica ali iskreno dosta slabija nego prethodne. Nekako je sve suvise zbrzano, likovi jesu zabavni ali malo onoga sto ih cini specijalnim plus princeza se skoro uopste ne pojavljuje ovde.Ali opet opustajuce je i lako za citanje tako da ne smeta previse.
This, however, does not prevent the author from creating the most emotionally charged finale so far in the series.
So the continuation of the series is very good and I am very very pleased.Στο τρίτο μέρος της σειράς οι ήρωες μας πρέπει να φέρουν σε πέρας μία αποστολή διάσωσης, στην οποία μπαίνουν με όλη τους την ψυχή καθώς κινδυνεύει η αγαπητή τους πριγκίπισσα.
Αυτά περίπου συμβαίνουν σε αυτό το βιβλίο, στο οποίο ο συγγραφέας βάζει τους ήρωες μας σε μία κατάσταση συνειδητοποίησης των συναισθημάτων και του προορισμού τους σε αυτό τον κόσμο.
The first two books in this series build Eilonwy up as strong-willed, independent, and intrinsically valuable.
In order to save herself and her friends, the only thing to be done is to destroy her heritage and surrender her future.
In fact, all told we've got two princes, a king-who-would-rather-be-a-bard (must be nice to have that kind of freedom), an assistant pig-keeper-cum-hero, and a host of magical creatures, and the ONLY one who must surrender their power is the one and only female character.
Another fine adventure of Taran & friends. Eilonwy is such a nice young lady, it seems a shame to spoil her with manners. It's tough on Taran, but Gurgy & the rest come along for a rousing adventure where they all learn more about themselves & life. Great fun even as an adult. Well narrated.
I loved these when I was a kid and it turns out I kinda love them now too. I’m maybe going to write a review for someone, if not I’ll post something longer here.
Extra star for nostalgia. I wish the princess had more of a role here, but otherwise this story continues to be wonderful.
For me, the lack of a kiss was a delight; Princess Eilonwy leaves Caer Dalben with an escort to go to the Isle of Mona and be trained in the ways of a lady, gets into a spot of trouble with a bad guy (because of Gwydion's poor decision to leave her oblivious to known danger), and is sought by her male friends in the age-old manner of Jumpman/Lady/Donkey Kong or Mario/Peach/King Koopa.
I enjoyed hearing the proper nouns read aloud in this book - Dinas Rhydnant and Caer Colur sound like proper Tolkien-esque strongholds; Glew and Llyan were well-dubbed, and the object we have formerly known only as "Eilonwy's bauble" or the golden ball or golden sphere, now given the illustrious name of "Golden Pelydryn".
“It seems to me that if an Assistant Pig-Keeper does the best he can, and a prince does the best he can, there’s no difference between them.” Princess Eilonwy is sent to the Isle of Mona to learn to become a proper lady. Whatever that may mean, Eilonwy leaves very reluctantly. But unknownst to her, the King and Queen of Mona have designs for her to wed their son, Prince Ruhn, while the evil enchantress Achren is plotting to take her captive. The Prydain books are becoming more and more fun as t
With Eilonwy's departure and the news of a potential betrothal to the Prince Ruhn, Taran also finally wakes up to seeing Eilonwy in a different light and slowly admits his feelings for her.
Prince Ruhn was quite a fun character.
In fact, this book made me love him even more - for it is thanks to him that they gain a new companion: Llyan.
Just like the previous volumes, it is both fun and quick to read!One more thing;I see several people complaining that Eilonwy is nothing more than a damsel in distress in this volume.
But soon after the companions arrive at the Isle of Mona (they escorted her there by ship, accompanied by her betrothed, the incompetent but well-meaning Prince Rhun), Eilonwy is kidnapped by a treacherous Steward named Magg.
Hello!" never failed to make me laugh) recognizes that his princely title does not contribute anything to their group, and he ends up offering himself up as a sacrifice, which in turn prompts Taran to feel really bad about disliking him.
This was the most heartbreaking part of the story, the way Taran felt when his friend didn't even recognize him, and him realizing in turn how much she means to him.
A nice continuation of the series. It was fun to finally get to some characters that I had heard about for some time, and I am curious to read the next two books.
This audiobook was only 4 hours long, so it was a really quick listen. What I like about these novels is that they're told years/months apart vs a continual journey. I love the narrator and highly recommend the audiobooks!
As charming as ever!
My only beef with this sequel is the fact that Eilowny is reduced to nothing more than a damsel in distress here.
But it was still a sweet, fun, charming tale as ever.
I must say that the strongest part of the series so far has been the characterization.
And Eilowny is a very clever, self-aware kind of princess, that has a mean streak of feminism written all over her.Once in a while these books also contain great advise on bravery, growing up, responsibility, and hard decisions.
If I had kids, I would definitely put this series on their shortlist.

My favorite of the five Prydain books, mostly because it's sort of a nice comic break between the books that deal with the main villain, and we also learn a lot more about Eilonwy (who I still maintain is one of the best female characters in a fantasy series, ever). Also this is the book where Taran finally figures out that he might actually like Eilonwy omg, and it's just cute.
not as good as the previous two, boring to be honest with you. however, it is still a great story.
I think what confused me was that this series, like The Lord of the Rings, is meant to be approached as one large story, in other words, if you want to get past the superficialities, the important character developments happen as the series progresses as a whole, not novel by novel, which perhaps takes The Chronicles of Prydain away from the simplicity of the fable and magnetizes it to a more realistic tone.
Time and again the main character Taran is forced to pass on opportunities at world-renown and glory, to make sure that the events in the story drive to a more happy ending.
(Although a Wikipedia summary of the backstory is needed for a few backstory details to make sense.) The defeat-the-bad-guys plot is familiar but never becomes too predictable, and the story is spiced up with some meaningful character interactions (such as Taran's jelousy that nevertheless turns into admiration for Rhun) that make it a memorable read.It isn't a perfect story - for example, I couldn't help but feel some of the events were contrived.
Taran can't tell Eilonwy (who is apparently his highly trusted companion) about some secret information, but then blabs it to the whole court after she goes missing.
The castle of Llyr is probably as well done as the first book in the series, but does not quite compare to The Black Cauldron.Eilonwy leaves Caer Dallben to learn to be a lady, and Taran goes with her as an escort.
This leads to adventures on the Isle of Mona, rather than continental Prydain which reveal more about Eilonwy's background and give Taran, Gurgi, and Fflewdur more opportunities for adventures.I may have liked this book more if it had more impact on the land of Prydain, since it sort of reads like a side story.

I first read this as a kid and have reread many times since.
I love the entire series but this one is probably my favorite.
Taran discovers that he is definitely in love with Eilonwy.
Talk about feisty characters!
I still don't know who I enjoyed mroe: The girl or the cat!
Glew the giant was also fun, if only because he was so utterly a failure in being despicable, even though he tried his best.
Or is that worst?
Taran is really beginning to grow up in this story and it is a delight to see him mature.
Another fast-paced, action-packed tale. I was expecting it to be much worse (based on other reviews), and once again very LotR-esque, so I was pleasantly surprised with this one.Probably not as good as the last, but I am looking forward to Taran Wanderer. Though, for being a book about Eilonwy, there's not much character development in here for her. It's still all about Taran, which I like.
I'm sure I read this when I was younger, since I read the entire series, but for some reason, the Castle of Llyr didn't make much of an impression on me. I didn't remember it at all. This time around, however, I loved it. I enjoyed it even more than the first two books in the series. The audio has really grown on me as well. I'm excited for the last two books!
Boring munchings and crunchings.
This series ha kept up its high standards well so far. This middle book was just as enjoyable as the first two and it's really nice to watch the characters develop and grow.
The Castle of Llyr is the third book in the series and continues the story of Taran.At the start of this book, Eilonwy is sent to the Isle of Mona to learn how to be a lady.
And since Taran learns that Eilonwy is supposed to be betrothed to Prince Rhun at the start of this quest, the book is really about Taran trying to come to terms with his jealousy.What I really liked about this book is that I can see that Taran has learnt from the previous books.
But after reading The Book of Three to my kids, and then feeling compelled to read The Black Cauldron before they would inevitably borrow the movie from their grandma … well, it didn’t take much for my 6-year-old to convince me to read the next in the series as her own, “special” book with Dad.So far, The Black Cauldron is the best in the group, but if you want the best of Lloyd Alexander, then head over to his non-magical fantasy series, Westmark--a fantastic example of concise and impacting storytelling.
In fact, it is still worthwhile, mainly because Lloyd Alexander has a knack for making characters and character-situations that ring both true and have depth.It was fun having The Castle of Llyr be a shared, daddy-daughter story-reading experience.
I certainly loved the change of pace in this book!
Great new characters and dynamic and interesting plot lines.
One of my favorites so far!
I have to say that a feminist critique of this leaves much to be desired.
Eilonwy, while the subject of the story in name, is quite absent both in agency and in a literal sense.
Just when she could be of help, we see that her mental capacities have been altered so that her male friends can save her.
She ultimately saves the day, with little appreciation from her cohorts.
All in all, lovely book.
