https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41060893-in-flight
I read Fifty Shades more than a year ago, so this is what I can remember, just off the top of my head!
Kinky dominant control freak.The most beautiful man she's ever seen.She turns into a simpering clumbsy idiot on their first couple of encounters.He has a proposition for her.(view spoiler)[the same kind!
(hide spoiler)] andhe can play her body like an instrument.They have sex on a plane.There is a playroom in his penthouse, she bites her lip and has a special best friend too!
The finale was totally predictable (view spoiler)[especially seeing as the author is following the trend.
Not reading.These quotes are the reason why :D"I’m going to tie you to my bed and take your hymen."..............bwahahahahhahahahahhahahahahhahahahahahahhahahahahhahahahahhahahah“Now lift up your skirt and stroke the petals of your sex lightly.” Seriously??? He says that???Dude...*PS, I might read it for the laughs, OMG this book has some awful quotes ahahhahahahahhahahahhahahahhahahahhahahahahhahah**Thanks Ruth woman you are awesome ahahhahahahhahahhahah*
BE STILL MY BEATING HEART! Holy Freaking WOW! Make room Christian Grey, Gideon Cross, Braden Carmichael – there’s a new fictional boyfriend in the harem and that man is Mr James melt my freakin' panties Cavendish. How much did I love him? Let me count the ways!He’s a super uber-alpha dominant male, he’s possessive, protective, controlling, a bit of a sadist, romantic, tender, fierce, generous, caring, soulful – I could go on and on and rain down superlatives but my heart and stomach really did
Let me count the ways!He’s a super uber-alpha dominant male, he’s possessive, protective, controlling, a bit of a sadist, romantic, tender, fierce, generous, caring, soulful – I could go on and on and rain down superlatives but my heart and stomach really did do crazy little flip-flops the whole time I was reading this and they are still doing it now as I think back and remind myself!
There’s absolutely no way in hell that I’m not moving straight onto the sequel.
I know that I’m a generally positive reviewer, I like most of what I read but I rarely give out 5 stars but I dragged that fifth one out for this one because of how it made me feel.
Links to bonus chapters below!  ★★★★★! Up in the Air series, book 1 of 3. Debut by R.K. Lilley. Intense, epic saga, erotic tale & mesmerizing love story with a larger-than-life James Cavendish & his Bianca!   “…“Yes, you scare me,” I told him, after a very long silence, while I processed his answer. “But I’m irrevocably fucked up, so you excite me in equal measures. I find it liberating, to let someone control me…”   There are three books in the Up In The Air series, but see below for BO
Intense, epic saga, erotic tale & mesmerizing love story with a larger-than-life James Cavendish & his Bianca!
There are three books in the Up In The Air series, but see below for BONUS chapter links:Book 1: In FlightBook 2: Mile HighBook 3: Grounded 
“...Come my love I'll tell you a tale.Of a boy and girl and their love story.And how he loved her oh so much.And all the charms she did possess.Now this did happen once upon a time.When things were not so complex.And how he worshipped the ground she walked.And when he looked in her eyes he became obsessed.My love is like a storybook story.But it's as real as the feelings I feel…”
Also posted on my blog at:Kala's Book BlogThis book is about as blatant of a 50Shades knockoff as you can get.Bianca is a drop dead gorgeous (but she doesn't think so) flight attendant who is a 20-something year old virgin (of course) and has a traumatic past.
James is a billionaire who is the absolute best looking guy in the entire world (nicknamed Mr. Beautiful by Bianca).Their first real meeting is on a plane while he is in first class and she's his flight attendant.
Of course she gets really drunk and her BFF roommate decides that this creepy stalker is JUST the right person to take Bianca home while he stays at the bar.
"I'm going to ruin you. I"ll be your first, and I'll fuck you so thoroughly that I'll be your last, too. You won't want any other man after I've gotten my hands on you. Every last inch of you."And so the story begins... The story of a 23 year old flight attendant named Bianca who encounters the extremely good looking and highly controlling billionaire Mr. James Cavendish in the first class section on one of her flights. They both immediately feel a very strong connection between them and despit
Especially Bianca has been through a lot when she was young but still she managed to keep strong and built up a life for herself, together with her best friend Stephan (whose character I absolutely loved by the way; their friendship reminded me of the one between Eva and Cary from the Crossfire series).
He wants to make sure she's enjoying their arrangement as much as she is."I would give just about anything to know what's behind that cool composure of yours.
Mr. Beautiful, James Cavendish  "This man was quite simply the most stunning person I'd laid eyes on in my twenty-three years""The sight of that hard play of muscles under his shirt made my mouth go dry"  Bianca,   "Suck on my tongue""Can you honestly tell me that the thought of submitting to me in bed doesn't make you wet?""I will put you over my knee every time you lie to me, Bianca!"  Bianca meets James in her flight that was serving as a first-class attendant along with best mate, Stephen.
Mr. Beautiful, James Cavendish  "This man was quite simply the most stunning person I'd laid eyes on in my twenty-three years""The sight of that hard play of muscles under his shirt made my mouth go dry" 
Bianca meets James in her flight that was serving as a first-class attendant along with best mate, Stephen.
Bianca has a horrible past and is yet to move past it until James.
James besides being controlling, dom, moody at times has a filthy mouth!
"I could eat you all day""I'm going to fuck your mouth tomorrow.
I need answers LOL James is so mysterious to me still!
Eeeeep! Loved it SO FUCKING GIDDY HAPPY!!!!!I think a dual POV and guy's POV is the best shit EVA!! It makes me melt from the inside ;) hahahahahaA guy's POV is the best shit eva!! *grins*The amazing feeling when James' brain keeps saying  'MINE'  for Bianca!! *grins*Fell in love with James, Stephan and Bee all over again!! :D Can't wait for the 3rd book!! :D“Please, call me James,” he chided me.  He leaned in closer, speaking directly into my ear.  “In private, though, you may call me Mr. Caven
Loved it SO FUCKING GIDDY HAPPY!!!!!I think a dual POV and guy's POV is the best shit EVA!!
*grins*The amazing feeling when James' brain keeps saying 
*grins*Fell in love with James, Stephan and Bee all over again!!
I haven't read a single book with a flight attendant thing going on it in.
It felt like a nice change.The book is HOT HOT HOT, oozes chemistry and its sizzling and steamy!Stephan is just THE BEST!!
James is FUCKING HOT and I so want to do him, BAD.
Melissa is a fucking crazy bitch, and supa weird.REALLY ENJOYED IT :D It has its nice thing going..
In Flight  is is basically, Fifty Shades of Grey meets Bared To You. You know, the usual, super rich dominant (but flawed) alpha male meets equally dysfunctional but strong and beautiful heroine, and developed instant attraction.What I love most about this book are the characters.
My personal favorite scene was when Bianca got drunk and he puts her to bed and removed her makeup for her, I think that's a first, I mean I haven't read something like that in books before.
4.5 SIZZLING STARSCook-A-BookImagine a gorgeous, filthy rich, dominant alpha male with issues (did I mention beautiful?).
Pair him with an introvert, unaware-of-her-own-sex-appeal, virgin gorgeous female with even more issues (optional).
Add a best friend/family member comic relief.
Spice it up with BDSM and imminent danger and Voilà....I know, I know...
YOU GET THE DANGER!
Her only confidant and savior is her co-worker/best friend/only family Stephan.
A gentleman and in closet gay, he is the guy you dream when you wish for a friend.James Cavendish as I mentioned in a status update is aMercurial, dominant, beautiful and sexy, every woman's (wet) dream!Together they blow up the sheets (and the cockpits!) and they are a joy to read.OFF TO READ THE NEXT!!!!!
^^^^4 stars for Mr. Beautiful^^^^“I’m going to ruin you. I’ll be your first, and I’ll fuck you so thoroughly that I’ll be your last too. You won’t want any other man after I’ve gotten my hands on you.”  "Can you honestly tell me that the thought of submitting to me in bed doesn't make you wet?" (Hell yes it does!!!!)"You're going to learn very quickly that i always mean what i say." (Oh yummy)**************************************This is the first book in the UP IN THE AIR series. James is a hot
"Can you honestly tell me that the thought of submitting to me in bed doesn't make you wet?" (Hell yes it does!!!!)"You're going to learn very quickly that i always mean what i say." (Oh yummy)**************************************This is the first book in the UP IN THE AIR series.
This has a cliffhanger, a huge one i might add, so have book 2 ready...and enjoy Mr. Beautiful (he really is..) and Bianca's story :))***************************************
The many faces of James...“Mr. Stalker Mr. Kinky Mr. Spellcaster Mr. Charming Mr. Personality Mr. Stalker Mr. Celebrity Mr. Beautiful Mr. Mercurial” MY BIANCA
Anyone else have deja vous???Blah blah 20-something year old billionare....
blah blah insta-love...
blah blah virgin...
blah blah f-ed up childhood...
blah blah BDSM...
blah blah sadist...
blah blah MERCURIAL...
blah blah jealous-control freak...Okay, I didn't actual hate this book.
It is hot and sexy and I'd rather do James than Christian any day.
However, to say that this theme has been done before is a HUGE understatement.
At the end of the book I DID get really drawn in but before that, I was gasping at how UN-origional it was.
I'm not sure which book came first but I don't really care.
3 SO-SO STARSI'm on the fence with this book.
It's not that I didn't like it but I didn't fall in love with it.
It was like reading Fifty Shades for at least the first sixty percent of the book for me.
It did at the end sort of begin to develop into something slightly different but I think that the character personalty traits were so similar to Christian and Ana's, that for me I had a hard time seeing past it.
I plan on reading book two but not anytime soon.
The ending felt predictable to me and I wasn't left feeling like I had to have the second book immediately.
It doesn’t exactly make me a good guy.” ~JamesPredator spots preyWhen first class flight attendant Bianca catches the piercing turquoise eyes of hotel billionaire James Cavendish her knees instantly go weak.
Once James finds out that the relationship between Bianca and Stephan her fellow flight attendant is strictly platonic...he goes in for the kill.
Bianca turns him down of course.And in true alpha male fashion James insinuates himself in to her life whether she wants him there or not.The chemistry between these two was HOT AS HELL.
Cool, moving on.I loved James he came across as a strong Dom yet would easily get thrown off balance by Bianca's nonchalant attitude.
I am sorry but In Flight didn’t work for me.I know many people loved this book, and that’s precisely why I gave it a go however, much to my disappointment, it fell down for me.There are several things wrongs with it, here are just a few:1) There is seriously something missing here: Depth.2) The Characters:I couldn’t connect emotionally with the characters; as a result, I just didn’t care much about them. BIANCA My biggest problem with her is that I don’t find her believable. I don’t see her beha
Leaving the sexual trust aside, there is something I cannot forgive her, the fact that she blindly believes James on not using a condom because she is on the pill, well, that is messed up and utterly stupid, she doesn’t really know him, how can she trust a complete stranger?
I think that kind of confidence and trust doesn’t come so easily during your first time with someone you know, much less with an almost virtual stranger.
5 Super Sexy Stars!Going into reading this, I heard a lot about it being a mix of 50 Shades and Crossfire Series, and I do see the similarities. But move over Christian and Gideon... there is a new hot alpha in town that tops you both, my new book boyfriend....Mr.Persistent, Mr.Stalker, Mr.Kinky, Mr.Beautiful, Mr.Dominant, Mr.Volatile, Mr.Shameless, Mr.Affectionate, Mr.Personality, Mr.Mercurial, Mr.Wonderful, MR.CAVENDISH   “I am going to ruin you,” he breathed. “I’ll be your first, and I’ll fuc
5 Super Sexy Stars!Going into reading this, I heard a lot about it being a mix of 50 Shades and Crossfire Series, and I do see the similarities.
there is a new hot alpha in town that tops you both, my new book boyfriend....Mr.Persistent, Mr.Stalker, Mr.Kinky, Mr.Beautiful, Mr.Dominant, Mr.Volatile, Mr.Shameless, Mr.Affectionate, Mr.Personality, Mr.Mercurial, Mr.Wonderful,  MR.CAVENDISH 
There are some steamy, passionate, straight up hot sex scenes, but this book is not all about the sex, there is actually a lot of story going on.
Both James and Bianca have traumatic and abusive pasts and are keeping some secrets from each other.
James is a hot dominate alpha male!
James our leading hero is such a likeable main character his dark past and flaws add a depth to his like-ability, I can not resist the domineering alpha male and Mr Cavendish delivers this role to perfection.Girl crush alert - one lovely, feisty book heroine!
I would recommend to anyone who likes a book featuring good characters, an overly protective, dominant, but sweet main leading character with a female lead that needs to be loved away from her past.
I recently purchased the audio version for my long car rides to work so I thought I would review both the book and the audio.This book series is my favorite series out of everything I have read.
The biggest reason I am so in love with this series is James and Bianca, the MC's.
I absolutely love James devotion to Bianca in this series.
I prefer just a dominant male in my stories but the fact that this series has BDSM and I still love it just proves to me how really good this series is.
-Why am I not rating this book?Because I'm obviously not this book's audience.
So rating it would be a bit unfair to the author and to the prospective readers.-Why did you read it then?I was curious and wanted to see what the fuss was all about.-Did you find out what the fuss was about?No.-Did you like anything about it?The writing was barebones and a bit dry, but not terrible.
And anyone who didn't like 50, but likes the whole billionaire and faux-BDSM thing (I don't like either, hence why I'm not the audience for the book) will most likely love this book.
Mostly are about sex and BDSM and to be honest, there was no real plot.
Yes, it has Fifty Shades of Grey feels.
I love FSOG, by the way, and I should've loved this.
But, honestly, there's nothing really special about this book.The characters are totally unrelatable.
The insta-love insta-lust also did not sit well on me.
It was kind of strange.It could have been better because the author's writing style is good.
The story just didn't work for me.Good thing I did not set high expectations on this.
I learned from experiences not to trust high ratings.
:)Rating: 2 Stars
There is a new  Dom in town and his name is James Cavendish~ He goes by many names: Mr. Stalker  Mr. Kinky  Mr. Spellcaster  Mr. Charming  Mr. Personality  Mr. Stalker  Mr. Celebrity  Mr. Beautiful  Mr. Mercurial SERIES:   Cliffhangers.Spinoffs:
Hot billionaire sets sights on beautiful ordinary girl, said billionaire pursues girl relentlessly, both have tales of harrowing pasts, nightmares, insecurities, throw a token best gay/male friend, a chauffeur driven SUV, guys hired to follow the girl around and a secret love of BSM that's been hidden from the media, oh and of course 'the other woman', and you've got yourself a pretty standard foundation for another erotic trilogy.
Sound familiar?Don't get me wrong, I love a hot billionaire (who doesn't, right?) and I love 50 Shades and the Crossfire trilogy...
I did enjoy the book and it was super hot, so I didn't want to be too harsh!
I like the author's writing style.
It's easy to get into the story though I have slow moments on some parts.
The romantic scenes are absolutely hot and well-written.
However, I find this book a little cliché.
It's like Fifty Shades of Grey  and  Bared to You mash-up.
It's my pet peeve when guys are too possessive and stalker-ish even at work.
James Cavendish is an example.
Bianca is a flight stewardess, it's just ridiculous he makes a way to make sure she's safe.
Nope.I'm definitely continuing this and see the progress of the story.
A fabulous view into Mr. Cavendish's head when he and Bianca just met. Delicious! thank you R.K. Lilley. Merged review:OOOOOh Mr. Cavendish aka Mr. Beautiful aka Mr. So-Many-Adjectives-That-All-Sexy-Billionare-Dom-Types-Can-Have aka Mr. Pervert... I mean seriously he sniffed her panties... in front of her... IN PUBLIC.... IN FRONT OF HER BEST FRIEND!!!! ROFL at the same time I love it!Although this story falls in the same line as 50 and Crossfire series (and there are quite a few similarity) but
Merged review:OOOOOh Mr. Cavendish aka Mr. Beautiful aka Mr. So-Many-Adjectives-That-All-Sexy-Billionare-Dom-Types-Can-Have aka Mr. Pervert...
ROFL at the same time I love it!Although this story falls in the same line as 50 and Crossfire series (and there are quite a few similarity) but the story is different as well.
Bianca is actually a strong female who (beyond the bedroom) refuses to take Dom Crap from Mr. Beautiful.
I want to see him fall in love with an amazing guy in this series he probably deserves it more than most.Fun, steamy, and entertaining read for fans of 50 Shades and Crossfire.
I know I'm going to be berated for this, after such amazing reviews this book received...Mr. Cavendish[image error] 3.5 STARS Yep... and it would have been less, if not for the compelling story surrounding these three characters!! I want more background... and I'm moving right on to the next book to get it!!!! I love the storyline... but what I didn't like was ... yes.... HIM!!!! I just don't know what it was... I usually really go for these kinds of characters. But for some reason, Mr. Cavendis
I know I'm going to be berated for this, after such amazing reviews this book received...Mr. Cavendish[image error]
is back to apologizing and assessing his "damage." Telling Bianca how he needs to be "careful" with her.
Even incredibly good looks and money shouldn't warrant acceptance of another abusive man in her life after what she went through.
Knowing her past, and her incredibly innocent sexual history....
I truly don't know how she went on after that moment in her life.
And I know James had a similarly horrible past...
James Cavendish[image error]
Bianca[image error]
Stephan[image error]
I LOOOOOOOOVE THIS BOOK!!!I started it wanting to get swept away in an intense, emotional love story, and that’s exactly what I got.
Yes, it’s similar to Fifty Shades, and the Crossfire books, but I love those, so I figure what’s wrong with adding one more to the pile of dominant, controlling and sexy-as-hell billionaires?
Again, seeing as this scene happens so early in book 1, we get to marvel at just how smitten James is with Bianca from the very beginning.
Fuck, I'm in trouble." I'm already a Stephan fan, and loved how he was James' side from the very beginning, but seeing him lay it out for him was awesome.
Okay, moving on!Gitte: The chemistry between Mr. Cavendish (sigh) and Bianca was fantastic, it not only ran deep on an emotional level it was pretty spectacular and steamy hot too!
I am devoid of speech where James Cavendish is concerned!Gitte: I am adamant not to talk too much about the story because this one is easy to spoil, what I will say is I fell in love with James & Bianca immediately, oh and I absolutely fell in love with Stephan too.
...Two traumatized people brought together by some inexplicable force use BDSM to unleash their sexual desires which in turns lead them to confess their true love for each other...   Sound familiar? It sure does and to be honest, when the Fifty bells started ringing, I got a little frustrated. But I decided to keep reading and before I knew it, I was under the book's...or should I say Mr. Cavendish's spell.Speaking of Mr. Cavendish, what's not to like? Billionaire...check. Sex god...check. Tra
But I decided to keep reading and before I knew it, I was under the book's...or should I say Mr. Cavendish's spell.Speaking of Mr. Cavendish, what's not to like?
Totally in love with Bianca...double check.
And what a bonus having Bianca's best friend, Stephan, in the story.
I really love him and it would be great for him to have his own book!
I also love how he calls her Buttercup!Towards the end, we get hit with a double-whammy and while I loved all that emotional drama, my heart really went out to Bianca.
I'm at the halfway mark and have decided this is ABSOLUTELY NOT FOR ME..
I'm becoming increasingly annoyed by these virgin porn star heroines ...
or at the very least come up with a smart ass remark, PLEASE!
...with that said Mr. Beautiful was beginning to grow on me, unfortunately I found Bianca to be a lost cause.
I am brutal when it comes to the heroine.
Bianca may not annoy you in the slightest bit.
Please DO NOT allow my opinion stop you from reading In FlightI wish I could continue forward, but unfortunately I have to say..
2.5 Maybe intrigued enough to read the next book, but really I started this series just to get to the Tristan and Danika series. This is just so cliche billionaire BDSM, it's not even funny. The thing that makes it stand out a bit is the fact that the heroine truly is not looking for a relationship, and the hero eventually crawls. I liked that part :D
