https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/812804.Big_Blonde_and_Other_Stories
The three stories in this short collection are BIG BLONDE, THE SEXES, and DUSK BEFORE FIREWORKS.BIG BLONDE chronicles the downfall of a woman (the titular "big blonde") from marriage to divorce to a string of men (not suitors, but men looking for a good time, men who want her to be a "good sport").
In BIG BLONDE, the representation is limited to a maid and an elevator operator, both black, both speaking in the same improper English (written phonetically)..."Tha's terr'ble, Mis' Morse, swearin' an' talkin' like that," said Nettie, "after what people done for you.
Maybe not the right time..
I’ve just finished the Dorothy Parker one, Big Blonde and other stories.
The title story is about a woman whose life just doesn’t seem to work out for her, and she doesn’t really understand why that is.
Her relationships with men all end badly, not surprising since the men she gets involved with are men whose lives revolve around boozing and bars.
The other two stories, The Sexes and Dusk Before Fireworks are both about communication or the lack thereof, about people failing to understand what their lovers want or how their lovers feel, about people talking without really communicating, and relationships that go nowhere.
I need to read more Dorothy Parker.
Dorthy Parker has some great quotes and a compelling biography, but after audio booking a bunch of her short stories and actually reading her "masterpiece" I respect her ability, but can't get around the depressing, Peggy in the first season of Mad Men, tone/setting that dominates her work.
melhor livro do ano
Dorothy Parker was a known writer of wit, and I've always wanted to read some of her works. This was my first, and I was pleased with this collection of short stories.She has a way with dialogue, and how it would flow from "certain types" of people. She manages to mix sadness with black humour and amusement all in one. I look forward to reading more of her works in the future.
Uma visão debochada de Nova York da década de 20...ela nos faz rir, mas esse riso é ferramenta para escancarar certos pontos obscuros, como o desconforto de alguns personagens com suas próprias vidas, a incapacidade de se fazer ouvir, rejeições amorosas e afins – e aí parece que esse é o verdadeiro ponto, e não as futilidades mais bobas.
I was expecting the Parker wit, but this really is an examination of male and female relationships in short vignettes. All melancholy and all that ring true even in our contemporary times. Not what I would call uplifting in any way but see does have a knack for capturing the sounds and rhythms of a couples quarrel that you've heard in one form or another over the years. Short and worth a read.
This is just a review of the eponymous Big Blond story.Upon finishing "After Leaving Mr Mackenzie", a friend recommended Big Blond. It appears to be set in about the same time and the stories are incredibly similar. A woman of some merit that based her life on men, and drinking.I don't know why I've read so little Parker. It's not like I haven't heard of her. That will change.
These three are Dorothy Parker's best stories, and Big Blonde the best of the three--the sadness you hear in Twenties blues, the mockery of the clarinet, the bitter mouthful of the flippant line, it's all here. Love this Penguin series--it's the bite that tempts you deeper.
I love these little Penquin editions, published on their 60th anniversary in 1995, and bought a bunch of them at the time for $.95 each. I'm just now getting around to reading a few of them, including this little set of Dorothy Parker stories.
The stories are well written, but without hope. They are dark tales about sad people. They are more of character sketches, lacking much of a plot-line.
I adore Dorothy Parker. And while in general I prefer her poetry to her short stories, the short stories are still very good. And this is a perfect short and sweet introduction to her stories.
The first stories were nicely done and quite entertaining; but it got boring after a while as they were so similar to each other. Better read one after the other and not in one go.
Big Blonde and Other Stories by Dorothy Parker (1957)
a classic.
Dated and depressing, but compelling character.
Crônicas sobre as mulheres de NY nos anos 20. Narrativa fora do convencional, e histórias que são atuais apesar do livro ter sido escrito há mais de 80 anos.
So so so sad.
Nobody can write the dialogue of a lovers' quarrel like Dorothy Parker can.
