https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6319978-friday-night-bites
I like to think of Merit having some friends but it's a shame Mallory's character isn't fully developed and feels a bit surplus, as though she's there just to flesh out what is basically a fairly thin plot, a plot which contains much of the same as Some Girls Bite: Ethan is betrayed by one of his own.
⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱*This is not a good thing*⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱   Re-read: 29.01.2018 Ah man, I struggled a little bit with this re-read. I mean, I just to love it, and now... I'm just liking it enough to finish it. I really hope this doesn't continue throughout my re-read of this series. I'm gonna be pissed if this is the case, as this used to be one of my favorite series...The characters:— Caroline ‘Merit’ ‘Mer’ Merit (becomes vampire at 27, but is 28 in years), Sentinel of the Cadogan House.— Ethan ‘Liege’ ‘Darth Su
There's also a Housed vampire who works for him that not even his colleagues knows about.— Joshua Merit, Merit's dad sucky dad.— guard of the Cadogan House, Lindsey (115) and who is also a psychic, and a good friend to Merit.— Lucas ‘Luc’, the head of Cadogan House’s guard corps— Morgan Greer, now Master of Navarre House, (72, though looks 28) who's a love interest to Merit.— Gabriel ‘Gabe’ Keene, Apex of the Central North American, Jeff's pack leader.— Darius West, head of the Greenwich Presidium and Ethan's Sire (haven't met yet, though mentioned).
Footsteps, and then he was next to me, his body behind mine, his lips at the spot of skin just below my ear. I could feel the warmth of his breath against my neck. The smell of him-clean, soapy, almost discomfortingly familiar. As much as the want of it disturbed me, I wanted to sink back against him, let him envelop me.Part of that, I knew, was vampire genetics, the fact that he'd changed me, some kind of evolutionary connection between Master and vampire.But part of it was much, much simpler.
As much as the want of it disturbed me, I wanted to sink back against him, let him envelop me.Part of that, I knew, was vampire genetics, the fact that he'd changed me, some kind of evolutionary connection between Master and vampire.But part of it was much, much simpler."Merit."Part of it was boy and girl.I shook my head.
Well, in book two, I found that not only did the intensity increase in the severity with which Merit and her vampire brethren were threatened, but also, her attraction to the head vampire, Ethan, became such a tangible thing I choked on it.
Still a good read. Just not as dynamic as the first book, imo. It felt a bit like a stepping stone to the next book. I'm not sure how I feel about the whole Morgan thing. I think Merit is getting crapped on all the time, by all her friends and family. Everyone expects so much from her, and she doesn't really have anyone to watch her back for her. I'm hoping that will change in forthcoming books. I listened to the audio of this book and the narrator is perfection for me.
Plus living in close proximity of him is proving difficult on her sanity and hormones.Life is getting complicated for Merit, seems that with vampirism comes a new celebrity status and everyone wants a peice of her.
Shifters are introduced and I think will play an important role in the upcoming books and we might get a few surprises like Merit wasn’t human to begin with and that’s why her vampire is all the more powerful and problematic, but that’s just me getting carried away.So Friday Night Bites is ride filled with mystery and some smoking hot sexual tension, you could cut the air and use a fan to blow the steam right out of this book.
This is a terrible book.
The author seems to think that if she just describes her main character as a fan of the Cubs and lots of junk food, Merit will be a well-rounded, relatable character.
I know more about Merit's clothing than I do about the grad work she was supposedly so passionate about (admittedly, her clothing is mentioned ever scene).
And the sexual tension just doesn't work for me, since her love interest is basically just Lestat in Armani (exhaustively described Armani).
I feel the same about this book as I did the first in the series: If you liked Buffy, are looking for something totally from familiar UF Romance territory, and are ok with the slightly YA-ish tone (VAMPIRE DORM ANYONE?!), you will like this book.
I thought Merit was super not sympathetic the way she was treating him, and I totally didn't get why Eric was trying to c$%#-block them the whole time when in the last book it was set up that HE was the one who wanted them to be politically together, for the good of the house!
SO basically, I was yelling at the book a lot but still couldn't stop reading.
“Awkwardness, thy name is vampire.” After Some Girls Bites introduced me to Merrit and her world, I was a little let down with this one.Merit has settled down in her new world without much issue - embracing her new vampire state (although there's some confusing bumps in there), aligning the new life with her old one including problems with her best friend, being a bit unfair to the current guy dating her, still flirting but resisting Ethan, juggling family issues with her father and trying to schmooze with her old family world considering her position in her House, and learning to fight and be prepared to battle the world as a Sentinel.
You have a villain in the background still, but I felt sure the main character would be fine, so it's mainly filled with scenes of spending time with friends, learning to fight, and house politics.
She wasn't nearly as frustrating this time around, but that didn't mean I didn't call her stupid multiple times, but at least I liked this one enough to continue the series, and am interested to know what happens next.~~~~~~~~Full review to come
“But before you alienate everyone who cares about you, Mallory or Morgan or whoever, remember who you were before this happened, before you were changed. Try to find some balance. Try to find a place in your life for the things that mattered before he changed you.”  Merit is still struggling with her vampire, who feels apart from her, which is not the way it should be. But she’s too afraid to mention it to anyone, too afraid of the consequences. So she’s constantly battling against her vampire
So Merit is ordered by her master, Ethan Sullivan, to reconnect with her high-class family, to act as the liaison between vampires and humans.
She alienated so many people, Mallory and Morgan, who cared about her, who wanted more for her than Ethan Sullivan, who doesn’t deserve all the unconditional loyalty she’s suddenly giving him.
But most of the problems are because of Merit, and her inability to get over Ethan, to realise that she deserves better, and she didn’t handle it well when Mallory tried to tell her so.
This was an enjoyable book, despite my problems with Merit and with Ethan.
I'm still tremendously happy I made this re-read.
Even though they are vampires, they look totally normal and the interactions between them are really ordinary, at least when we are not talking about Merit and Ethan together,lol, that's a whole other point.Merit is just this awesome heroine which you never get bored of reading about.
It has been a while since I had picked a book and read till I finish it without caring how many straight hours it took me.
I read them in a day.
I loved this book.And the constant tension with Ethan gets me hooked, really hooked.
2.5First thought : where is the rest of the book?I push myself to finish this book because I included it in a challenge.It's you Ethan, the fault.
And Merit for be so speshul that from a lit scholar suddenly is a kickass flamante martial art specialist just because she is a vampire.No me gusta que Ethan considere tan de mal gusto que una mujer prefiera estar en la biblioteca y usar zapatillas deportivas, que usar el vestidito negro y hacer cosas más 'encachadas'.
No, no me lo creo que pudieran mantener un secrto asi para una niña .Lo mejor sigue siendo la amiga mágica y su novio.
Not as good as the first book but still an ok read four stars I think
Half the time I'm figuring out his intentions but slowly understanding what makes him tick and learning to read what he really is trying to hide.Together Merit and Ethan are like a bomb waiting to go off.
There were times Merit confused me, especially when Ethan was more, shall we say, open, but I understood her reservations and reasons for delfecting his advances.
Morgan is back as the new master of Navarre, and forced love interest to Merit, but his intentions are shady.
The promise of a more complex involvement in future story lines is exciting, especially in regards to the ruling vamps of Chicago.Such a fantastic book in what's shaping up to be an amazing series.
I enjoyed Some Girls Bite, which was a great debut in Chloe Neill’s Chicagoland Vampires Series and I was looking forward to Merit’s next adventure.I am not sure if I am totally into this series…..Friday Night Bites was a bit of a disappointment for me.Nothing exciting or new happening here….…it’s once again:The House of Cadogan is betrayed by one of their ownMerit continues to irritate me to no end……so many times I wanted to tell her…”grow up!!” The relationship between Ethan Sullivan & Merit doesn’t seem to be going anywhere.
4 starsI read this book like a maniac. I neglected my studies (oops), held my breath, and just read. But I can't really pinpoint any particularly amazing moments, besides the ending. Holy moly, those last 10% were explosive! As far as relationships are concerned, Merit's got a lot on her plate.She's got a horny, magic-ridden best friend occupying her flat with her beau. None other than Catcher Bell, Merit's ruthless physical coach. Can you see how that particular intersection could be troublesom
4 starsI read this book like a maniac.
As far as relationships are concerned, Merit's got a lot on her plate.She's got a horny, magic-ridden best friend occupying her flat with her beau.
Which is good.However, Ethan basically ordered Merit, as his loyal subject, to engage in a relationship with Navarre's new Master, Morgan, who happens to have the hots for her.
Because Merit wants Ethan.
In fact, the first book wasn't very elaborate in that aspect either, but it made up for it through the world-building.
I hope it does.I have high hopes for this third book, what with the alluring cliffhanger-ish ending and promise of further Ethan-Merit developments.
I'm so ecstatic that I got the three books in the series from the hold list at the library around the same time--I'm just a little worried how long I'll have to wait once I finish the third one tomorrow!
:-( To those of my friends that are wondering what the heck this series is about, here you go: A grad student from an extremely wealthy Chicago family is attacked in book one and made a vampire.
Merit (the rich now-vampire) is (unsurprisingly) a badass and every dude she comes in contact with is obsessed with her.
Merit trains to be even more badass, more people fall for her, and she helps resolve problems for the vamps in Chicago.
✮✮✮✮ 4.5 Merit's a badass stars ✮✮✮✮✲I must warn you that this review will be more the expression of my feelings towards the book and especially the characters' development, because, hey, that's difficult to review several books from the same series in a raw.✲❝ You know," I said, biting into an onion ring, "I feel like things would go a lot smoother for you if you'd just admit that I'm always right.
But you know what?So, Ethan, you have eight books to become a male lead I can love - oh.
At first, it lacked the flow that made Some Girls Bite stand apart from the crowd.
Merit’s ties to her family, her House, her friends, and to society at large are all tested; she’s only been a vampire for two months and she’s still adjusting to her new place in the world.
She harbored some concerns throughout the story and I don’t understand why she didn’t voice them to someone, anyone.
Ethan takes advantage of his Merit-family acquisition, using her as an entrée to the upper echelon of Chicago society.
This book incorporates a lot more development for Ethan Sullivan; I’m finally seeing the appeal.
Book 2 in the Chicagoland series finds new vampire, Merit, embracing her immortality and moving into Cadogan House with her fellow vamps, including enigmatic House Leader, Ethan Sullivan, in order to ‘connect’ with her kind, and fully take on the role of house Sentinel.She is continuing to learn about her new world, a world in which humans are still coming to terms with the existence of vampires, but when a threat is received from within the rich circle of Chicago’s elite – the circle that Merits’ family are very much a part of – she is thrust back into her old life once again.
I can't help it - I just really love these books, and I love Merit, and I hate Ethan but at the same time he's absolutely and completely delicious and I need more and basically all the characters are perfect.
Review to come, bitches. On a more personal note: cat + ceiling fan + squirt gun. Not for the faint of heart but could be made into an Olympic sport.
What really shone in this book though were the relationships - their rises, falls, crash and burns in some cases.Merit is a really great heroine.
He is still annoying me with his and Merit's crazy attraction, but I am definitely liking him more than Morgan, which I could not have imagined at the end of the first book.
Morgan in this book totally backfired for me with his jealousies, and jumping to conclusions.
True Mallory has Catcher but you could tell what she also needed and it seemed like Merit failed her.
I'm typically an apologist, but I just find it funny that now every guy seems to be infatuated with Merit. Hmm.
Unfortunately, much of the book kind of plods along as Merit and her Sire, Ethan, investigate an alleged threat to vampires by someone whom Merit knows, because of course she’s part of a fabulously wealthy socialite family and she used to date the guy’s brother.Merit’s interactions with her former roommate Mallory, and Catcher, Mallory’s boyfriend and Merit’s weapons instructor lack focus for the reader.
Also, Ethan and everyone proclaims her as being an usually strong and fast vampire, yet so far she’s filled with self doubt and basically follows Ethan’s orders without any resistance other than being flirtatiously sassy.After 23 hours of listening to her voice, I’ve actually gotten to like the Narrator.
These books are fun. Just like the perfect summer vacation - light, easy, fun, hunky men, beautiful water and sand everywhere.. okay, maybe not exactly like it, but fun! oh yeah, isn't summer the best?What?? Oh, yeah, the review thingy... So, Merit is a new vampire and she has had an eventful beginning. My first few weeks as a vampire had been inordinately busy. Like "The Young and the Restless", but with slightly dead people. This time, there is a reporter who is looking to expose the vampires
Conveniently, it turns out that the reporter is the brother of Merit's high school boyfriend.
He must have some sort of raging genital boils to act like this much of a jerk!)So, Mr. Herpes, the Douchebag tells Merit and Ethan that vampires have threatened his brother and if they don't find out who it is, he will write a scathing expose' on vampires.
(We've all been there, ladies, huh?)But, with Ethan's girlfriend from the last book cleared out, and Merit's relationship crashing and burning, it looks like we might just get a romance out of this series yet.
4.5 stars (pretty damn close to 5)The second addition to Chloe Neill’s Chicagoland Vampire Series picks up where the first left off (and it’s recommended you read the first before diving into this one.) Merit is still learning to adjust to her new status as a vampire but as Sentinel to Cadogan House.
Hahaha Up until then I’d be imagining Morgan along the lines of this: [image error]*Swoon*I actually enjoyed this one even more than number one… it was funnier, far more interesting, and way more exciting.
Rating: 4 1/2 starsWhere do I start?There were some unexpected changes in store for Merit.
Not in a bad way, just in a more changes, extra-extra sauce kind of way.In this run--I do like Ethan more.
The Breckinridge the verdict is still out.However,Nick Breckenridge is on my hit list.Otherwise, **spoiler alert**I liked that Merit let her inner vampire loose.
Merit is gonna get plenty of tests with a formidable bitch like Selena.
The "showdown" between Selena and Merit in this one was a little cliched.
*spoiler end**I got the next book lined up and ready with both barrels cocked and aimed.
A definite 5 STARS FROM ME!So Merit has now moved out and Catcher moves in (MALLORY IS ONE LUCKY GIRL!).
Merit moves into Cadogan House to fulfill her role as Sentinel, which she does very well.Again in this book we get the great relationship between Merit & Mallory, Mallory is just so BRILLIANT and I love their friendship.The sexual tension between Merit & Ethan is sizzling and The Library scene had my tongue hanging outside my mouth, my heart pumping and obviously a *knicker change* was involved!
I’ve enjoyed this book very much. Chole Neil writes UF drama, emphasis on relationships and politics, and she does so with great wit and care for her characters. The relationships are intense, which I like, the dialogues are sharp and often funny, and the world she created sucks you right in.I’ve especially enjoyed Ethan development as a character, and his relationship with Merit.Chole Neil does have a tendency to overwhelm the reader with details. It was very hard for me at first, but I got used to her style and stopped noticing it at some point.Highly recommended.
