https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/488908.Doggies
It might seem odd to review a book that has 10 pages and less than 20 words in it.
Barely 15 minutes ago, my littlest boy brought this book up to me and said, "Read daddy!
Read!"That's the baby version of a 5-star review.
What really makes this book good, is that it's one of the very first books you can read to your kid.
Both my boys loved this book, and Cutie went through a period where there was nothing in the world funnier than one of the dogs going "Yip yip yip." He would laugh and laugh whenever I said that.
We were having a great time reading a book together.
My son loves this book. We usually read it before bedtime. After 5 minutes of barking (Arf Arf Arf, Aroof Aroof) and howling (Awoooooooooooooooh) and laughing at each other, Mommy comes in and tells us to settle down because it's time for bed. This usually results in crying (by me), the occasional tantrum (guilty again), and lots of pouting (you guessed it).
I read this book before to my older son, but reading it tonight to my younger son I forgot how much fun it is to read. Plus, my younger son was very engaged and mimicked all the dogs barking, which my older son never really did. However, the other night I heard my older son 'read' it to his little brother, which was cute, funny and heartwarming!
Fun. More when The Lil Dude can enjoy books more. Right now books are objects for tummy time and practice for mom being silly, especially this one. Gotta work on my barks!
My family has had this book for as long as I can remember (in fact, our version was published in 1984) and since I'm the youngest and the biggest dog connoisseur, it fell into my custody,so I figured it should have a rating from me. It's cute, short, and obviously I have fond memories.
Simple, cute illustrations, lots of opportunities to make funny noises that will make your baby giggle. Holds my 6-month old's attention wonderfully well.
With barely enough words to fill a 5 minute conversation this book does more than other kids books do in an entire series! My nephew absolutely adores this book and he's a surprisingly picky reader. After him shoving it in my face for the umpteenth time I gave it the standard once over and found it surprisingly well written and drawn. Excellent art style and lovingly drawn visuals make it a pleasure to read. I find it sweat and honestly I like it.
Note: this is not my review but the review of my daughter who can't have her own goodreads but does love herself a book! Therefore I will be writing them for her. She is currently 6 months old. Enjoyed this book tremendously, possibly because mom is very good at making various dog noises, a skill she didn't even realize she had. Would read again, maybe 400 times.
This book is amazing. With each reading, new hilarity ensues. The initial read I literally spent 20 minutes working on my A-ooooooh versus actually saying each individual A & O. Later I reveled in learning to "Shhhhhh" amidst the quiet dogs. Most recently I have found it hysterical to call this book, Duckies. Does it ever stop giving!?
Not my favourite Boynton but the girls like it well enough.
It might seem that a board book whose words consist entirely of different kinds of dog barks (and one cat) would be boring.
But Boynton, a master of rhythm and humor, captures ten different dog personalities through the sounds they make.
Each page builds on the last, as dogs join the group one by one until the group reaches ten.
Preschoolers will adore this book, asking for it again and again, and adults who love them will have to get their barking voices in shape.
The only thing I dislike about this book is that it is a board book.
I would love it to be a lap book or even a large picture book.
The kiddos at story time LOVE to hear the different barks and it would be great if they had large illustrations to go along with them.
They usually join in and help me with the barking and howling.
and she did that through the entire book.
This is definitely a book for readers who are not timid about making silly noises for their readers.
Counting book and D is for dog week
Fun to rrowff aloud.
I read this many times to my (12-month-old) nibling today. On my nth reading, I realized that with each additional dog (up to about eight) its bark increases in syllables to match the number, which was a neat touch. I also noticed, when the nibling was much less interested in  Counting on Community , that the images in the Boynton book are simple, crisp, high-contrast, all of which lend themselves to young readers -- in contrast to the darker, smudgier illustrations of the Nagara book.
A short, sturdy board book for toddlers that will have them say “Again, again!” The charming illustrations and onomatopoeia keep it from boring the grownup who gets that request. Perfect balance of words, numbers and pictures. A good book for the toddler who is in the approach-avoid stage with real canines.
If you have two dogs, reading this book is hilarious. They will flip out!
Another hit by the amazing Sandra Boynton. This clever counting book uses a plethora of dog breeds with a variety of vocal patterned barks to help toddlers learn to count with humor.
This is a quick little book for young kids. My 6 month old loves to hear the sounds dogs make which keeps him interested and entertained.
My 2-year-old, who's obsessed with dogs and isn't usually very vocal when reading had to bark along with this fun counting book.
The baby laughed hysterically every time I read this. Success.
I like the different dogs and barking sounds, but it’s missing the rhythm and energy of Boynton’s best books.
Counting plus dogs plus a variety of dog sounds. I imagine this book will continue to please as babies are able to make the sounds themselves.
Alice and Katherine love this book.
5 stars from toddler, 2 from adults. We are sooooooo sick of making all the dog noises. The best page is 6 quiet dogs.
Great little book for baby -toddlers about dogs and differences ...a favorite baby shower book gift .
You can't go wrong with Sandra Boynton + Dogs!
Times read -- 2
Daughter loved this book starting about 9 months old. (We have dogs). She'd carry it around with her. So cute.
Artist Sandra Boynton is back and better than ever with completely redrawn versions of her multi-million selling board books.
These whimsical and hilarious books, featuringnontraditional texts and her famous animal characters, have been printed on thick board pages,and are sure to educate and entertain children of all ages."My Review: I received this book as part of a book swap and my partner was kind enough to send some books for Munchkin!
So much better than trying to explain why all the books and toys say dogs bark or woof and ours makes a completely different noise.
