https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1933357.The_Quest_for_Certainty
البحث عن اليقين كتاب هدفه الأول إرساء دعائم المنهج التجريبي كطريقة للبحث عن المعرفة في الفلسفة الحديثةالكتاب يُعلي من قيمة التجربة في مقابل التأمل العقلي المطلق ويحاول هدم كل تراث الفلسفة القديم. يعلي من قيمةالواقعي على حساب المثالي ويحوال التوفيق بطرقة أو بأخرى بين العلم والفلسفة ويتحدث أيضا عن أسباب النزاعبين العلم والدين ويطرح أسئلة حول إمكانية التوفيق بينهما.أحيانا كنت أشعر أثناء قرائتي أن هناك جملاً بل فقرات كاملة لا استطيع الوصول إلى معناها أي لا افهمها لاأدري إن كان تقصرا مني أو عيوب في الترجمة.
Dewey's narrative, starting with the Greeks and the relationship between the leisure classes, artisans, slaves and laborers in their thought is very thought-provoking.
His explanation of instrumentalism in relation to Newtonian and Einsteinian science is powerful.
The chapter on the construction of the good, inspiring.
Dewey is like a painter whose master pieces unfold before your very eyes.
When you first look at one part of the whole painting you fail to see the beauty--you might even find it hideous.
But once you begin to connect the pieces of the whole, you are speechless.
Each piece in turn gets infused with unexpected beauty.
While Dewey is too sure that the answers are straight forward, it cannot be denied that he is brilliant. I have a love/hate relationship with his books. Go back from time to time to get a booster shot of pragmatism.
Dewey and I see eye to eye.
Some of the best educational ideas of all time; some of the worst writing in history.
Dewey argues that the traditional intellectual quest for certainty is a quest for security that has only separated theory and practice, a separation that can only be overcome by an appreciation of the value of uncertainty, and a settling for probability.
Have to admit that this book is back on the shelf. No time for it right now.---Seriously, how have I gotten this far as not only a Dewey scholar, but an expert on Dewey's philosophy of science, without having sat down with this book and read it cover-to-cover?
Many Dewey scholars believe this is Dewey's best book. I have to agree. In my opinion, Dewey sums his thought up better here, than in Experience and Nature.
A great book that lays outs Dewey's thoughts on the history of human inquiry.
