https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6420.Visions_of_Sugar_Plums
Book Review  3+ out of 5 stars to Visions of Sugar Plums, the first cross-over book between Stephanie Plum and Diesel, written in 2002 by Janet Evanovich. As part of a marketing approach to launching a new series, this book places Stephanie in a most unusual place right around Christmastime. As she's trying to get her life on track, a man materializes in her apartment. She can't figure out how he got in and starts wondering if he's a vision or a ghost. It's Diesel... a very hot man... just wha
Book Review
3+ out of 5 stars to Visions of Sugar Plums, the first cross-over book between Stephanie Plum and Diesel, written in 2002 by Janet Evanovich.
As part of a marketing approach to launching a new series, this book places Stephanie in a most unusual place right around Christmastime.
As she's trying to get her life on track, a man materializes in her apartment.
just what she needs, a third one in her life...
Suddenly, she freaks out when she thinks he means Santa Claus!
A very cute story, full of the normal charm in Evanovich's books...
Cute, fun, short. Also, angry elves. It was Lorraine in her nightie and Mo in his cap.They'd just settled their brains for a long winter's nap in front of the television.When out in the lot there arose such a clatter,they sprang from their recliners to see what was the matter.Away to the window they flew like a flash,tore open the blinds and threw up the sash.And what to their wondering eyes should appear,but Stephanie Plum and yet another of her cars burning front to rear.
After reading the first chapter, I knew I'd hate it!Not only did the story seem excessivly rushed, with countless scenes being skimmed over with no detail whatsoever, but the charaters alone were basic and uninteresting.
The plot alone was horrible, with a somehow supernatural dude popping into the main character, Stephenie's, life without an explanation whatsoever.
The ending of the novel was entirely rushed, probably more so than the entire book as a whole.The only brightspot to the book was the occasionally comical sarcastic thoughts and dialogue expressed by the main character.
So cute!Reread April 2018—I am a huge fan of Stephanie and all their zany antics. This is the story that introduces Diesel and the magical world of people with special talents. In this book we have Steph searching for Sandy Claws. He’s a toy maker and is hiring little people to work in his factory. Is he really Santa? Hmm.🤔 Cute story and an excellent addition to my Christmas read list. 🎅🏻
Stephanie is out looking for Sandy Claws as he has jumped bail and she needs to bring him in so that she has some money to buy Christmas presents and pay the rent. A guy called Diesel suddenly turns up in her apartment and he is also looking for Sandy, who it turns out runs a toy factory full of short people. Add in a grandmother that has a new "stud muffin" and we have a book full of lots of laughs, holiday cheer, and just general good fun.
OMG I can not read any more of these books.
I am totally done.
Reading these books is like watching a terrible sitcom with a laugh track that says "you should be laughing now"...but I'm not.
These books are trite, cliched and just plain uninteresting.
I don't have any idea why Diesel was dropped into the story with a silly "supernatural" element and honestly, how many times can we hear about the hamster in his hamster wheel and how Stephanie's car blew up yet again.
I know lots of people love these books, but for me, they are just awful and I wish I could get my money back.
I got impatient waiting for the next Stephanie Plum book to come out so I thought I would go back and read one of the books released in between.
Normally I like these books because they make me laugh, they are quick reads and the characters are well developed.
This book made me laugh and was a quick read; however, it felt rushed and not fully developed.
It also involved a character that is in some of her later novels but the events that happened in this book are never mentioned again.
If you enjoy the Plum books you should read it but do not have high expectations.
The bookmark was pulled in a fit of rage when a character named Sandy Claws was introduced. I should have known better considering Christmas is the worst holiday, but I have an unhealthy amount of self hatred.
It's very hard for me to dislike a Stephanie Plum book. Evanovich would have to do something pretty drastic to make me hate it. This book was no different.This is Stephanie's first run-in with Diesel (from the Lizzy & Diesel series) and it proves to be an exciting and electrifying meeting from beginning to end.
It was an ok story although the addition of a supernatural element was more than a little strange in what has been a reality-ish based series for the 8 previous books.
I mean every hot man that enters the series becomes a potential love interest.
I think it will be interesting to see how much of this book will continue into the regular series.My biggest was with the narration.
It's like changing an actor mid-series.
I've listened to 7 books read by CJ Critt, so her characterizations are familiar.
There's an option for CJ Critt or Lorelei King for the next 2 books, and I'm hanging on desperately to Critt.
I like the Stephanie Plum books, but this book just doesn't seem to fit in the series.
I don't think the supernatural elements fit too well with the Plum novels, either, and it isn't even a "Christmas" miracle story, since Diesel is a year-round magic guy.
Unfortunately, (view spoiler)[at the end, we learn that one of Valerie's kids will grow up to be a supernatural superpowered superhero, too, (hide spoiler)] so now I suppose that for the rest of the series, whether this book's events are mentioned or not, I will have a constant reminder anyway.
Sheesh!If this is the only Plum book you've ever read, you'll probably like it.
With the holiday season coming I thought I would jump in and read some holiday books, and what better way to head to Trenton NJ with our fearless lucky bounty hunter Stephanie Plum who is down on the Christmas spirit trying to hunt Sandy Claws, she also meets Diesel who winds up in her kitchen.
Diesels job is to catch Mr. Ring who is out to hurt Sandy.
This was full of so much humor with a child thinking she's a horse and is Stephanie's neice, to Grandma Mauzer missing her teeth.
They spend time trying to get to Sandy but have to battle an evil group of crazy elves.
This story is really silly...but I still liked it.It's very Christmassy with plenty of Grandma Mazur, a bit of Morelli and some Lula bits to keep me happy.Recommended for Stephanie Plum fans but it is a bit ridiculous (I mean more ridiculous than usual haha!).
Silly and hilarious. Loved it!
This is the first story in the series where we are introduced to Diesel. It's another laugh out loud adventure and I loved it!
Wanted to call police if they didn't show up...finally they were found in a stuffed toy dinosaur where the grandkid put the teeth so it couold 'eat' better...but she also painted the all teeth with flowers, rainbows and stuff-of course with permanent marker...the granny just put them back inside happy to finally talk again normally and ready for her date LOL she wasn't worried because all those old people can't see a thing anyway :))) (hide spoiler)] I can't describe it too sound funny as it was fun listening to it, but if you want a good laugh, then this is a book for you!
Basic InfoFormat: AudioPages/Length: n/aGenre: MysteryAt A GlanceLove Triangle/Insta Love/Obsession?: NoCliff Hanger: ehTriggers: n/aRating: 3 StarsScore SheetAll out of tenCover:  7Plot: 6Characters: 8World Building: 7Flow:  6Series Congruity: n/aWriting: 7Ending: 7Total: 6In DeptBest Part: Little back storyWorst Part: Too short for me.Thoughts Had: Santa!; creepyyyy.ConclusionContinuing the Series: maybe.Recommending: yesShort Review: This was a nice little short story to add to Stephanie Plum series.
I was cracking up over the elfs thou and every time she said Clause my kid went nuts.
The creepy dude in her apartment would have made me pee my pants, but not Plum since that stuff always happens to her!
I liked it thou :DMisc.
It's five days before Christmas and Stephanie, the world's worst bounty hunter, has been tasked with apprehending Sandy Claws.
As of right now she doesn't have any decorations, she's relying on her parents for dinner and she hasn't bought a single present so the situation is getting critical.Visions of Sugar Plums is all the fun of a Stephanie Plum novel sprinkled with a whole lot of Christmas magic.
It's definitely put me in the mood to dig out the Christmas decorations and put up the tree so perhaps I should have waited until december to read it :o)
A Lighthearted, Hysterically Funny Read!!! I Loved It!!!
I love the Stephen Plum novels; so, how is it that I managed to miss this one?I noticed this book displayed at the library’s holiday book display and of course, I had to read it.
The book had all my favorite, lovable characters: Stephanie, Joe Morelli, Lula, The Plum parents and of course, Grandma Mazur.
Being that Stephanie is far from the greatest Bond Agent, in fact she is probably the worse, this will be nearly impossible; after all, she only has four days to collar her skip and no leads.
Well, things would change when a man appears in her kitchen…………… Lovely holiday book!
Meh, I didn’t love it and can’t wait to get back to the main series.
Visions of Sugar Plums by Janet Evanovich is the first Stephanie Plum Between the Numbers book and follows book 8. It is nearly Christmas and bounty hunter, Stephanie Plum is after a toymaker Sandy Claws. This book introduces us to a mysterious character Diesel who has certain special abilities including being able to open all locks. A fun, quick read with a few supernatural elements, although not up to the standard of the usual Stephanie Plum novels.
Finding a man in her house is not new to Stephanie, she has had all kinds of crazy and this is just a drop in the bucket.
His name is Diesel and Stephanie is not sure how he got in, apparently he just "popped" in.
Stephanie attempts to thwart Diesel, but he has his mind set on his task at hand.
Very different from her numbered books and more concise, but still the crazy, zany Stephanie.
Well , as I was reading the Christmas Novella of the Stephanie Plum adventures and to my surprise the author Janet Evanovich had introduced a supernatural character named Diesel and I was like OMG thats Diesel from her latest series Wicked Appetite and Wicked Business.
As we are also used to strange men popping up in Stephanie Plum's novel , at first she doesn't blink but soon she will realise that there is something not out of this world right with her newfound guest Diesel.
He has somehow been transported into Stephanie's apartment building as it seems that two supernatural characters have gone walkabouts .
But I do have a few "Non-Other" books and series that I enjoy and look forward to reading.
The Stephanie Plum Books are some of those "Non-Other" books that I love.This Stephanie Between the Numbers has crossed over a bit and I can't decide if I'm thrilled with the mix.
Short scenes, but had me all choked up none-the-less.
Maybe it was the clever scene, or the idea of kids growing out of believing in Santa or just plain hormones.
And that NEVER happens in the Plum Books.So in the end, a good laugh, a teensy tear, a bit of "Other-ness" and all entertainment.
#8.5 in the Stephanie Plum seriesThis was just silly.
It wasn't up to Evanovich's usual standard of humor and entertainment, although there were flashes of her style from time to time.
In this case, Stephanie is trying to find Sandy Claws, a skip who seems to be running a toy shop just before Christmas, hiring a number of little people to work for him, with a wife who is constantly baking cookies.
By that I mean that it seems like a short story that was written to emulate Evanovich, copying all of her signature humor with none of the warmth that is usually there.
This book was a total disappointment. Normally I will read a book and push through even if I don't really enjoy it, but this book was an exception. It was so far fetched and ridiculous that I sold it at a used book store when I wasn't even half way finished because the store credit was worth more to me than the book's content taking up space in my head.I really enjoy the Stephanie Plum series, but this "holiday special" totally stunk.
Very disappointed in this Stephanie Plum novel. It seemed very "cheesy", like a quick attempt to make money off the popular series. I was diappointed because I did not read it after I believe book 8 where it would have fit into the scheme of things, so a lot of stuff seemed repetitive since I already read up to number 11. The Deisel character "popping in" really had me confused as well. It just seemed really far fetched and dumb..... not worth the short read!
I borrowed this Christmas "between-the-numbers" book around the holidays, thinking that Evanovich could do no wrong, especially not with Stephanie Plum. What a mistake.This book is an uncomfortable mix of the typical Plum fare (sex, silliness, sass and explosions) and a VERY bizarre alternate fantasy world. I finished feeling like I could've done less damage by just taking the book and hitting myself over the head with it. If I could, I would give this zero stars.
I love the Stephanie Plum books. So I thought I'd try this "between the numbers " book. In this book Diesel appears in Stephanies kitchen and insists she help him round up a bail skip. I had no problem with Diesel, even though I don't think Stephanie needs another man in her life. My problem is after so many books set in the "normal " world. Now all of a sudden the author throws in a paranormal twist. It does not work for me. Did not care for it.
