https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/676921.The_Man_Eater_of_Malgudi
And herein lies my problem with 'The Man-Eater of Malgudi'-it's style and characters are too deeply-embedded within the conventions of British literature to really stand out, like it's narrator Nataraj, 'The Man-Eater of Malgudi' is nice if ineffectual, recycling the standard tropes, the bullish, bury blunder-head Vasu, the comical side characters and the languorous, lilliputian hero Nataraj.That is not to say that 'The Man-Eater of Malgudi' isn't an enjoyable read.
Indeed the prose and dialogue flow nicely, as the reader becomes slowly engrossed in the disagreement between Nataraj and Vasu, the toxic taxidermist who blunders into his life.
This had a bit of everything - Drama, Mystery, Comedy and a bit eccentric characters.And the signature simplicity of RKN on top of all this.So this was yet another RKN buddy read with Arpit ( his review ) and we both loved it.
The railway-station, the streets, the backdrop of the town are painted with a wonderful economy of words; the characters’ ideas, thoughts and spirited attempts to make sense of things seem to elucidate something eternal in Indian village life.
The influence of Indian myths in all their playfulness is on show here – Vasu is a “Rakshasha” – a demon often associated with man-eating.
But as with all Indian myths, slaying the demon is never as easy as it seems – and the reader is left wondering which of the characters has really got what they wanted.
This is the first full length Malgudi novel I have read - there have been a few novellas and of course Malgudi Days, but this one is a little different.Narayan is able to spend some more time, rounding things out - or maybe dragging things out.
I have set it aside in my shelf for a little over a year, watching and waiting, and finally read it, so perhaps I built up my expectations in this manner.I won't spoil an interesting plot, other than to say, it was certainly not on topic as I had preconceived it.
I could hardly bear to read on, so terrified was I of what might next befall him through his own foolishness, yet at the same time I couldn't bear to lay the book aside.
At points I cried with laughter at one or another character's words, though it would be impossible to explain why without reading large sections of the story aloud.
I was helpless!I wasn't keen on the introduction to this edition, but I agree with its author about the Narayan's efficiency - truly every detail contributes to the narrative, every word to the effect.
I just wish he had turned some of his brilliantly economical characterisation to female characters...
A printing press. A rogue taxidermist. An elephant in trouble. What more could you ask of a book?
I've never read Narayan outside my school English textbooks and this book was wonderful.
The plot has a few lapses like Natraj worrying a lot about leaving fingerprints by touching stuff in Vasu's room but completely forgetting that he'd handled the man's gun the very previous night!
The writing is simple yet it kind of draws you.And Natraj irritates a lot of times but that's the way he is.
The setting of the old Indian village when we were fresh out of becoming an independent nation is interesting to read now.
Glad I read the book!
Its hard to rate this book. The writing, as always with Narayan, is exquisite, each sentence adds to the next and its always visual, like watching a film in words. The setting and the characters take front stage and the story seems to be just the vehicle for them. And that's what makes it less enjoyable, this slowness of plot.
A classic from R.K.Narayan.
As usual very recognizable yet interesting characters.
The dilemma in his mind as to what is right and what he could do presents an interesting picture common in our lives too.
On the other hand the negative character is extremely strong and generates a loathing in the reader.
Also the other characters like the poet, journalist, lawyer or the teashop owner paint a beautiful picture of the small town and its quirky nature.
This is where R.K. Narayan succeeds in presenting a fantastic painting, varied in colors and emotion.
The stranger (Vasu) is an ex-sideshow strongman who peremptorily and impolitely demands things expecting everyone to obey him.
Rather he poaches from the nearby nature preserve and preserves the remains in the attic of Nataraj's shop that Vasu bullied for no rent.
The story very amusingly and drolly narrates the slippery slope that happens when Vasu has that one inch to launch his mile.The climax comes when a beloved temple elephant (that Nataraj "saved" by getting a doctor) is chosen to lead a village celebration past Nataraj's house (and Vasu's window).
Finally Nataraj must act - because now it is more than himself that may be at risk.
I read this a few years ago for a Uni class on Indian literature. It was one of the reasons I was glad I took that class. I found it very funny with the juxtaposition between Nataraj's 'put-upon' personality and the massive, bullying Vasu who rolls into town. A good read if you like 'odd couple' situations. I'm digging it out tomorrow for a re-read!
The earthy fragrance of Malgudi continues in this classic. Amazing plot!
Sheer genius of R.K. Narayan shines through in this masterpiece tragicomedy! ❤
BEST INDIAN CLASSIC I'VE READ..!! R.K. Narayan is the best writer and truly no one can ever mimic his writing.
Rather than focusing on the background of the stories, the fictional every-town of Malgudi, Narayan seems to go right into the complexities of the human mind.Nataraj, the town's printer and the novel's protagonist, is a man who exemplifies in many ways the weakness of will that many people experience when confronted with the kind of distress that men like the unwelcome guest and taxidermist Vasu brings into his life.
I am tempted to imagine, especially because of the introductory essay's thesis that Narayan puts himself into each of his stories, that Nataraj, the Talkative Man, or a million other Narayan characters must have been reflections of parts of the author's own personality, like an image in the shards of a shattered mirror.In conclusion, this book comes highly recommended.
There were enjoyable moments in the book.
Apart from two main characters, the author doesn't give much look into the other characters (there are a lot of characters by the way).
I feel like the author didn't do justice to those characters.
Their characters could have been molded to make the book much more entertaining.Climax is disappointing.
In fact, after giving a lot of build up to the two main characters, the way he ended the book was like a 'WTF' moment for me.
The incidents from climax would occupy maybe 10 pages of the book max.
I had a "tiger/lion" in mind when I picked this book so was quite excited to see how they catch it but it turned out to be a "man" who has been termed as the Man Eater of Malgudi!
His books are bound to mesmerize everyone in own special way and the narrative is so real that you can see the entire story like a movie.
Although this book did not turned out to be as good as his previous ones for me and hence the low rating but like I said it can turn out to be very special for someone else because you never know what ends up touching and having an impact that would last.
a most delightful read by all means!!!!!
i thoroughly enjoyed every moment of it!!!!
narayan's magic lies in his simplicity!!
the protagonists aren't doing anything extraordinary, neither are they 'important people'.
these are simple men living simple lives whose worlds turn upside down the moment there is a slight change in their daily mundane routines!!!
i implicitly agree with pico iyer in this!!!
we all have encountered a vasu in one form or another in our lives and there is bound to be a bit of natraj dwelling in each one of us, hence we all can relate to this story at one level or another.
its reality presented in fiction by the the tale-wizard rk narayan!!!
This was listed as a read alike in Novelist for 'Number 1 Ladies Detective Agency'. It takes place in India. Its protagonist is a printer in Malgudi who has the misfortune of befriending a taxodermist. This man moves in above the print shop and takes advantage of the protagonists unwillingness to confront him or be impolite. It does fully immerse the reader in the country and culture of India but can be tiring at times. The plot meanders.
I had to read this book in my first year of English at University. I hated it, almost all the way through, because it annoyed me how the Taxidermist was so dominant and did whatever he wanted to that sweet Indian man, who did nothing at all. After the end of the book, I thought about it, and realized how brilliantly the author made me loathe the characters. I think that's a true testament to this author, and overall it made me appreciate the story.
This book is about looking beyond just the story. Its the philosophy behind it. RK Narayan is by far one of the best Indian authors and he happens to be my favorite. His stories are everygreen and suitable for all ages. This book is a modern day adaptation of the famous story about Bhasmaasura from the Hindu mythology.
One of those rare books which i could really relate to (being basically from a small town n all).Great read.Deals with how simplicity is such a a complicated thing.The characters are real,subtle in their humor and most importantly for me,Indian.
This book was a leisurely read, taking the reader through the simplicity and liveliness of the small city of Malgudi.The climax of the story was humorous. I never expected the story to end in that fashion
Quite a good book to read...!! The writing is beautiful as usual, the characters looked real, in some parts of the book there is presence of humor..!But not as good as 'Malgudi days'... :(
The book was humorous in places. I was disappointed by the abrupt and stupid ending though.
Supreme artistry. The legend of Bhasmasura modernised. Malgudi becomes immortal yet again, this time with a twist in its tale.
One of the classics I would recommend to new comers in reading! brilliant way to start of an addiction, of reading..!
Adverting to the novel at hand “the Man-Eater of Malgudi”, one who has not read the gist on the rear end of book jacket would tend to think that the story revolves around a tiger that troubles the lives of people in Malgudi and that was exactly what I imagined.
PLOT: The Man-eater of Malgudi is the story of Nataraj who runs a printing press in Malgudi with a sole employee.
Rather Vasu is given to hurt others without a bit of regret and claims that an animal is worth more when it is dead.
Briefly put, “the Man-eater of Malgudi” is worth the time spent reading it.
Generally, I used to have a thought that the plot which revolves around foreign countries sounds interesting.
At first, I thought what would be the final climax in this plot..a boring ending might be!!!..But I honestly admit that I gave a jerk, when the author gave a twist that "Vasu was dead!!!".
By being nice to all, Nataraj the hero was avoided by his own people, for the murder, which he was not actually the cause.
I was inspired by the line which Sastri told, "There will be people coming to us, if they have business with us".
Be it Mali of Vendor of Sweets or Raju of Guide, Narayan always created positive characters, who may at times do bad karmas, but are never wholly evil.
His characters usually fall in fair or grey shade, but in the present novel, he has created a pure black persona.
Vasu is absolutely devoid of emotions, a vicious man who does not think twice before killing someone.
And, I can say with conviction, that it is the story of Vasu, the man eater, who entered Malgudi in a disguise and robbed it of its serenity.
An interesting story of extremes.
