https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20193924-mind-s-eye
Maybe you might even say like pickled RED herrings.
Van Veeteren knows that he doesn’t have the full story of what happened that night.
I do like to read books in order, but I do understand that the publishers wanted to bring what they felt was his best book out first.
( In school, the teachers were always harping on me to show the work.) He distrusts contentment or any sense of well being because it feels like just a harbinger of worse things to come.
A surprisingly good and well-written murder mystery.For fans of Scandinavian crime fiction, Hakan Nesser should be on a short list of favorites.
This was good enough for Nesser to be awarded the 1993 Swedish Crime Writers' Academy Prize for new authors.Crime fiction is like a salesman - the lead detective, typically the writer’s protagonist, must sell the story by selling himself; if a reader likes the inspector, then they will most likely enjoy the story as well.
Nesser has created a charismatically grumpy old depressed and intuitive senior detective in Veeteren, but the hero here is Nesser’s exceptional writing that blends somber, moody introspection with inspired literature and –yes!- some dry humor.
I am pleased that I followed his recommendation.This is book 1 in the series and I enjoyed it.
It is a psychological mystery with Detective Chief Inspector Van Veeteren solving the mystery by deductive reasoning and following clues.
There is very little violence.Van Veeteren's thought process: "He interpreted the signals emitted by a suspect; sometimes he found it easy to do as reading a book, like a musician can pick out a tune from a mass of notes in a score, or a mathematics teacher can spot an inaccurate calculation."This was a library book.
He plunges into a full scale investigation of both crimes that leads him to a shocking conclusion.With this book, Nesser succeeds very well in introducing a very intriguing protagonist, and watching Van Veeteren in action is the real pleasure of reading the book.
The crimes themselves are intriguing, but my reservation about the book is that the solution to the crimes results primarily from Van Veeteren's intuition about the murders, little of which is shared with the reader, as opposed to the physical evidence.
Despite being the first official novel in the Detective Chief Inspector Van Veeteren series, The Mind's Eye was not published in the UK until after outings two and three, hence many readers found it a little disconcerting to come to this first offering belatedly.
The Mind's Eye provides an excellent opportunity to observe the inner workings of the investigative team who support Van Veeteren and also gives an insight into relations with his absent wife and offspring.
Mitter meets his fate the following night, leaving Van Veeteren furious at the missed the opportunity to learn the killers true identity.
I have enjoyed other Scandinavian murder mysteries so much that I was happy to discover Nesser's Inspector Van Veeteren series (of which this book is one).
The author also structures his story so that Van Veeteren solves the puzzle long before the details are revealed to the reader.
To read that Van Veeteren looked over the report one more time and there it is!
No. I prefer authors like Henning Mankell who reveal details to the reader as his characters are discovering them, making me feel a part of the process.
I loved Mind's Eye by Håkan Nesser, the first in the Swedish crime series featuring Inspector Van Veeteren, the grumpy, cynical, aging detective who has a stinging sense of humor.
In fact, although I'm an incorrigible multi-book reader, I found myself unable to read anything else until I finished this book (a rare event that I always hope for).
I can't wait to read the next in the series.My favorite line that comes close to capturing the feel of the entire novel: "A crime against the determinant," said Van Veeteren, looking just for a second as if he might smile.
This was a slow starter. It seemed so predictable in the beginning it had me fooled. After 50-60 pages the story got more speed, it held my attention till the end. I'm looking forward to reading the next one in the series.
I truly love nordic noir so it is difficult for me not to adore all mysteries and crime novels that come out in this genre, however, Mind's Eye was a challenge for me.
I really liked the main character and would enjoy getting to know him better.
What was most difficult was Hakan Nesser's writing style.
Most likely I will give the author another try and if you enjoy Nordic Noir I would suggest you might do so as well.
Perhaps you will have more success with Nesser's writing style than did I.
In un non meglio identificato paese del nord, piovoso e nebbioso, opera con la sua squadra il commissario Van Veeteren, stuzzicadenti in bocca e cervello in continuo movimento, un profondo senso della giustizia e quella dose di testardaggine che gli consente di riaprire e risolvere un caso che sembrava chiuso. Logica e intuito sono alla base delle sue indagini, narrate in uno stile accattivante, fatto di frasi brevi, ironia e bei dialoghi. Un noir raffinato, dal ritmo giusto, privo di sbavature e di elementi inutili.
Gifted Scandinavian curmudgeon depressed detective .... it's deja vu all over again. I read the imitators first; this is one of the originals. Good read.....not sure it was supposed to be funny, but I laughed quite a bit. I can see myself getting hooked on the series.
Δεν ξέρω γιατί. Λίγο μετά τη μέση απλά δεν το άντεξα. Δεν ξέρω αν φταίει ο τρόπος γραφής ή η υπόθεση, πάντως δεν με τράβηξε και το άφησα στην ησυχία του.
Van Veeteren knows that the only way to get to the bottom of these crimes is to find out all he can about their past lives -- especially Eva's.This book is one more in the wonderful set of mysteries written by Nesser.
His writing is so good that he will hook you in the first few pages and not let you go until the book is finished.I can very highly recommend this one to others who enjoy Scandinavian crime fiction, and to those who have read Nesser's other books.
This book has an intriguing start.
He phones the police and cleans the apartment.
He is suspected to be the murderer by the police and is convicted of the crime.
He himself is later murdered while imprisoned.
Although many people are interviewed no solid leads form because no one knows much about the murder victims.
No leads at all and the book drifts from interviews of people who know the murder victims with no useful information to a solution.
The weakness in this book is the method of crime solving my Inspector Van Veeteren.
Problem solved.
There will be absolutely no hint of spoilers in Nesser reviews from me!
I found Nesser books after running out of Karin Fossum books to read.
Nesser's writing is excellent and does an unbelievable job at sucking the reader in to the twisted story being laid out.
For some reason, in the majority of Scandanavian mystery writers I have found, their ability to do that is second to no other countries mystery writers.
The only criticism I have is that I am not happy about with Nesser's books is that it takes WAY too long to have them translated and released in the US.
Μέχρι στιγμής ένα από τα πιο ενδιαφέροντα αστυνομικά μυθιστορήματα της 'σκανδιναβικής σχολής' που έχω διαβάσει (1993). O Nesser είναι Σουδός, αλλά γράφει περισσότερο σαν Αμερικανός με γρήγορο ρυθμό, ενώ σε κρατά σε εγρήγορση και σε αγωνία, χωρίς να κουράζει. To καταδιωκτικό και κλειστοφοβικό κλίμα του βιβλίου 'δένει' με ένα μαγικό τρόπο με τα απόκρημνα τοπία και φαράγγια των περιοχών της Σουηδίας. Εδώ, θίγει ένα ιδιαίτερο θέμα που ίσως σοκάρει, αλλά το χτίζει με τρόπο που δεν ενοχλεί. 'Γεννά' ένα κεντρικό ήρωα με στόφα κυνική, αλλά με αποτελεσματικότητα και σπάνια οξυδέρκεια! Το προτείνω ανεπιφύλακτα για το καλοκαίρι.Βαθμολογία: 4/5 ή 8/10.
Demasiado previsível. Não me convenceuOpinião completa: http://marcadordelivros.blogspot.com/...
A really good page turner with strong characterization (the protagonist Chief Inspector). Funny at some parts, too! Didn't see the end coming. I'd truly recommend this to anyone who likes crime and mystery fiction.
Γρήγορη πλοκή, ενδιαφέροντες χαρακτήρες, χωρίς περιττές περιγραφές για να γεμίσει σελίδες....με ενθουσίασε πάρα πολύ!!! Μετά τον nesbo είναι από τα καλύτερα αστυνομικά που έχω διαβάσει!!!
3.5/5 stars Like I've said before - a good mystery book shouldn't be longer than 300 pages.
It being written by a Swedish author was a gigantic plus because 2018 is a year in which I'm trying to read a lot of foreign authors.
It's good because it keeps the reader guessing, but it's also annoying because who likes to be in the dark??​The plot is nothing special, but despite of that there wasn't a point in which I felt bored o wanted to speed things up.
I will definitely try to pick up more of his books in the future.
It would have been good to have read them in order, since this first novel introduces Van Veeteren and his quirky ways of going about solving crimes.
Information about his personal life is also in this book that is only referred to obliquely in later novels.
When he goes to use the bathroom, he finds the door locked.
Through dogged police investigation and the use of Van Veeteren’s intuitive skills, the murder is tracked down, but not before other victims fall prey to this diabolical killer.
This is an excellent introduction to Van Veeteren’s personality and mental style.
The story is set in a fictional town, presumably in Sweden (but apparently deduced in later novels to be somewhere in Denmark) and stars a typically curmudgeonly detective named Van Veeteren.
No reason to give away more than that - this book is more about the atmosphere than the plot: hazy cigarette smoke, stale coffee, sallow skin, lurid sex.This is the first in a series of mysteries with Van Veeteren, who is not exactly a unique creation of the hard-boiled detective milieu, but is entertaining to follow.
The real fun is imagining which actor would be best for the inevitable movie version of this novel.
Van Veeteren would be best served by an older character actor, perhaps Willem Dafoe in his creepy phase.
Wie immer sind die Charaktäre sehr liebevoll entwickelt.
Ein Mann wird des Mordes an seiner Frau verurteilt.
Nachdem er selbst umgebracht wird, beginnen die Ermittlungen erneut.
Leider ist der Mörder und die Story die dahintersteckt relativ bald sehr durchsichtig aufgebaut (ich hab mich gewundert, dass die Kommissare nicht früher draufgekommen sind), aber die derzeitige Alias-Identität des Killers ist bis zum Schluss unklar.
Sprachlich weist der Roman die typischen Nesser-Qualitäten auf - vor allem wieder die Beschreibung des Wetters, der Gefühle der Kommissare für den Job und dem damit verbundenen Kontakt mit dem Abschaum der Gesellschaft.Fazit lesenswert - aber die Story a bisserl absehbar.
Καλό αστυνομικό. Βρήκα σχετικά νωρίς όμως τι είχε συμβεί αν και περίμενα μέχρι τις τελευταίες σελίδες για να το επιβεβαιώσω. Επίσης ανά διαστήματα σου έδινε την εντύπωση ότι υπήρχε και άλλο βιβλίο πιο πριν στη σειρά, κυρίως όσον αφορά τον επιθεωρητή που ενώ τον παρουσιάζει για πρώτη φορά, είχες την αίσθηση ότι κάτι θα έπρεπε να ξέρεις ήδη από πριν.
Uma boa escrita.Uma narrativa a preceito.Uma mulher morta. Um marido suspeito. Um polícia excêntrico.O enredo... oh! já me esqueci... (eu e os policiais...)
But Van Veeteren, a detective prone to inspired insight and damaging depression, doubts the verdict… and then another killing sparks a full scale man hunt.Sadly, the greater part of the rest of the book doesn’t live up to the promise of the earlier section, and gets bogged down in an awful lot of lists, numbers, alibis, cross-referencing and the like.
There is such a thing as being a little too literal with the procedural aspect of the story.Van Veeteren himself isn’t easy to engage with.
Although we’re given a complete explanation of the story, it wasn’t clear to me how the great detective intuited all this information as the investigation occurred.The prose is plain and unfussy, and this isn’t an especially long book.
יאנק מיטר מתעורר בבוקר לאחר לילה של שכרות, ומגלה את אשתו מתה באמבטיה.
הבעיה היא שהוא אינו זוכר דבר מליל אמש, ולא יכול לספר למשטרה כל פרט אשר יועיל לו, שכן כבעלה של הנרצחת, ששהה איתה בעת הרצח, הוא החשוד היחיד ברצח.
יאנק בטוח שלא רצח את אשתו, אך כל הסימנים מצביעים עליו, ואין לו כל אליבי.
רק הבלש הותיק ואן וטרן מאמין ליאנק שיש רוצח אחר, "דג חמקמק", שמהתל במשטרה ומנסה להפליל יאנק ברצח אשתו.
ואן וטרן ממשיך בחקירה בזמן שיאנק יושב במעצר וממתין למשפטו, ולאט לאט, מצליח לעלות על עקבותיו של הרוצח.
דג חמקמק/הוקאן נסר
Qual é a motivação do crime?;10 - Com diálogos brilhantes e comentários incisivos que nos motivam um sorriso irónico “Det Grovmaskiga Natet/La Tosca Red – Un Caso Del Inspector Van Veeteren/The Mind’s Eye” é um excelente policial;11 – Hakan Nesser nasceu em 1950 na Suécia.
A série com o Inspector Van Veeteren tem dez livros publicados.13 – O livro “Det Grovmaskiga Natet/La Tosca Red – Un Caso Del Inspector Van Veeteren/The Mind’s Eye” do escritor sueco Hakan Nesser, permitiu-me o contacto com um dos melhores e mais originais escritores de policiais nórdicos, infelizmente não editado em Portugal.
I borrowed Hakan Nesser's The Mind's Eye from the library for inclusion in my year-long Reading the World project.
He then discovers the body of his beautiful young wife, Eva, floating in the bath after an attack.
He continues thus when the body is discovered, using short, snappy sentences to capture the mood: 'He entered the room and, just as he switched on the light, he became quite clear about who he was.
Her head was face-down, and as the bath was full to the brim there could be no doubt that she was dead.'The Mind's Eye is rather a quick read, and a page-turner, at least.
This seems to be a common pattern that foreign detective novels from a series are translated out of order - several other Inspector Van Veeteren novels came out in English before this one.
Thus the book, set in the "current day" is now describing a Sweden of almost twenty years ago.Presumably publishers do this (out of order) because they decide that one of the later titles is more compelling for an English speaking audience - and that the first one is weaker.
