https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/116989.The_Mitchells
AHHH! I used to LOVE these books. I need to track them down and read them again, but I am afraid that my older eyes and world-ravaged soul will not love them as much as I used to. Dramatic? Maybe a little. But this is the first book in three about the cutest little family. I think these even might be out of print...my mom somehow scored them for us and I will be forever grateful that she read them to us when we were little.
Luckily, he really likes the Mitchell children, especially Angela, age 3.And it turns out that Mrs. Trotter has a young refugee girl named Una, who is about 8 years old, living with her beside her son Henry.
The book takes place over the course of one year and there are three generations living under one roof, Grannie (and Mr. Spencer), mother and the five children, so you know that there are lots of antics as well as ups and downs.We hear a lot about refugees these days, and I think the story of Una will resonate with today's young readers.
The kids loved this one and can't wait to go on to the next story in the series. I liked it a lot, but a few coincidences stretched credulity for me as an adult. Van Stockum is great at identifying the little things that matter so much to kids, but I admit this one didn't captivate me as much as my beloved childhood favorite, The Winged Watchman.
My mother most (un)graciously told me that no, I couldn’t bring Swallowdale along because I would finish it in one night, so I picked The Mitchells off the shelf and stuffed it in a bag.The Mitchells, by Hilda Van Stockum, is a story about five children, Joan, Patsy, Peter, Angela, and Timmy, who live during WWII.
The Mitchells become great friends with the refugee, a girl named Una. But can they help her find her parents?The Mitchells was a funny book with one especially naughty (and amusing) character: four-year-old Angela.
This added a touch of sadness to the book, like a sprinkle of salt on a piece of caramel.
Plus, it features a family of very realistic children, and Hilda is so good at giving personalities to little ones.What we loved: The family.
The children get along well, in a natural way; the father's mother lives with them, and his wife and mother respect and love each other like mother and daughter - so sweet!The conflict.
We were a little disturbed by the mother's permissive parenting, and the older daughter deciding to 'train' her siblings on her own using a child-rearing book.
Fortunately, as a read-aloud, this subject was able to be properly dealt with and led to a good discussion of biblical child-training.What made us laugh:The children are just so cute!
Coming from a family much like the Mitchells, I can relate to a lot of what happens.
This is practically the definition of comfort reading for me.I can still relate so well to Joan and Patsy, and I just love happy-go-lucky Peter.
This time reading it it struck me how much freedom these kids have.
The six- or seven-year-olds go grocery shopping for the family, eleven-year-old Joan takes it upon herself to organize the cleaning of the house, and they all roam about the neighborhood's vacant properties and walk to school unattended.
The Mitchell Family is a true delight!
A true story based on Hilda van Stockum's own life during WWII.
She does as wonderful a job sharing the hardships of war on a family as Laura Ingalls Wilder does sharing the hardships of pioneer life in Little House on the Prairie.
The children are whimsical, the troubles are conquered with brave hearts and the war is seen through children’s eyes only in the manner in which it affects them personally with food rations, father and uncle abroad, victory garden, etc.Our family enjoyed Mary Sarah Agliotta audio narration.
Now that I have a son, I've been re-visiting books from my childhood and was delighted to find this novel to be full of sympathetic characters with zest for the goings-on in their lives on the homefront while their father is away at war.
The children are quite realistic; flawed, and not at all sentimentalized (well, with the exception of the war refugee "Una," who has an air of a fairy tale character, but with good reason as the Mitchell girls believe she is a real princess).I'll certainly be reading this one aloud to my son when he's older.
This is a story about a family living in Washington DC during WWII.
The five children are determined to support the war effort while Daddy and Uncle Jim are away fighting in Europe.
Their V for Victory club takes on a range of patriotic duties, from saving soap (though Mother had views on that one), to painting the lodger's room, to cleaning the neighbour's yard - meeting a mysterious orphan princess in the process.
This isn't a war story in the usual sense, but the impact of the war on the family and their friends is felt throughout.
A funny, charming family story that will appeal to 8-12 year-olds.
Such a fun kids' book.
I found the ending to be a bit predictable, but I think that's coming from me as an adult.
While I read this on my Kindle, the book is still in print and available in hard copy.
My only complaint to that end is the cover.
I know you're not "supposed" to judge a book by its cover, but we all do it, and certainly kids do.
I think I'd have a hard time convincing a kid that this book was worth picking up in spite of the lame, cheesy cover.
Good, ole' Bethlehem Books! That publisher supplied many good books to my childhood reading days. I had forgotten about this series! While the author's Bantry Bay series will be my favorite, the Mitchells series is still a fun read. Set in World War II and based on the author's family, the story is full of lessons on family and filled with humorous events. The Mitchells is great for family read aloud or kids who love to read fun, uplifting books.
Reviewed for the Logos Library. The children in this story are somewhat undisciplined due to the fact their father is gone to fight in WWII. Parents should take this into account as well as the date it was written: 1945; children today cannot run around the whole town and play in other people's yards, etc. It did remind me of my own childhood and the freedom we had!
It was okay. I can see 10-year-old Ellie loving this book if I'd had it when I was 10, but now, all I can see are the extremely sexist overtones of the story, which wasn't cool. It was just written in 1945 and you can tell. Good for the family who loves old quaint books. Maybe a good read-aloud for Grandma?
This was probably my favorite series from childhood! I have re-read all of the books multiple times (there are two more after this one). I think they are out of print but I don't know why because they are so cute. It also is a great book for teaching about the home front during WWII. If you want to read a good book that teaches great values with your family, this is an awesome bet.
I first read this book when I was 9 years old. Years later my brother and I read it aloud to our family.Follow the lively and entertaining Mitchell children (all of 5 of them) in their exciting adventures, in the house, outside, in the neighbors yard, etc. This lovely book has two sequels Canadian Summer, and Friendly Gables that I recommend as well.
This is primarily just a fun book to read, and all ages can enjoy it. I would have to say that just about everyone can find someone in the story that is very similar to, or dead on one of the characters in the book.
This was my second time reading it aloud. First time I read it to Paul, and this time to both Paul and Lila now that Lila is in first grade. We love the Mitchells. They are a wonderful family to emulate and very entertaining.
Fun. Captures a slice of life of early 1940s US.
Great fun! I especially related to this book since my family is from the Washington, D.C. area.
10YO girl liked a lot.
This book never gets old, even after the 4th time through!! Love it every time
We read this book when the girls were in early elementary school and it has a special place in our hearts!
Hilda van Stockum does it again. Great read-aloud. My kids and I loved the “Cottage at Bantry Bay” series and this one did not disappoint. We are all looking forward to the rest in the series.
Chief among these is their formation of the Victory Club, which meets in the backyard of a house on the street left uninhabited for so long that they call it the "white elephant." Friends Tilly and Dickie join them for club activities, and all kinds of antics ensue, including the acquisition of quite a few pets their father might not be pleased to meet when he returns home.The writing in this book is breezy and entertaining, making it easy to read in just one sitting.
The books are not really that similar except for the fact that they both involve parents who specifically disallow pets, but knowing how much I loved Ten Kids makes me certain that I would have loved The Mitchells just as much had I discovered it in childhood.
This follow a family during WWII. This family is doing their part during the wartime despite having food rations parents and friend who are off at war this family still manages to have fun and go on adventures. This is a good story to introduce what is was like to live during WWII. This story makes of feel what this family feels their joys their sorrows. Recommended age 8-13Reading Level 4th – 6th grade
