https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/817181.The_Goldsmith_s_Wife


This novel tells the story of the beautiful Jane Shore - who married by her father to a local goldsmith, becomes the mistress of Edward IV.
Edward IV is married to Elizabeth Woodville and is brother to The Duke of Clarence and Duke of Gloucester (later Richard III).
He is also father to the doomed young princes Edward and Richard - whose fate in the tower is now legendary.
I have a non fiction TBR about the Princes in the Tower - which may get read quite soon.
The bestJean Plaidy was the original,before the newcomers in all their hype the last few,years,and quite simply the best.a true storyteller.
Jean Plaidy writes in an old-fashioned way but I enjoy the characters she usually writes about, this book takes place in the 1400's. Jane Shore was a famous or infamous mistress to King Edward and Lord Hastings. I admire an author who can conjure up probably daily events in an interesting manner.
Did not make it very far at all the dialogue was a bit dreadful. Does anyone know of any other fiction based on Jane Shore's life?
Jean Plaidy has managed to do just that, portraying a very different account of Jane’s life compared to the version featured in Anne Easter Smith’s “Royal Mistress”.The Jane in this book is as likeable as she is beautiful.
She could’ve gone on to be the ultimate haughty bitch, what with her unrivalled good-looks and her position at court, but rather she uses her influence to aid the suffering of others.I also like Ms Plaidy’s portrayal of Richard III.
Her version of the last Plantagenet monarch offers a realistic balance of what Richard may have been like as a person.The ending is a melancholy one.
Standard Jean Plaidy work. Some parts fact, some parts fiction, other parts simple romance.
It is not shallow, at least in its first half, and her reconstruction of Shore’s early life, especially her seduction by the King, is imaginative and riveting, though overdone.
And when she has the younger Prince in the Tower looking forward in 1484 to being rejoined with his child wife whose death three years earlier had been a politically significant event, I fear it is not poetic license but historical ignorance.More annoying than all of this though is Plaidy having the Princes in the Tower die in late 1485 under Henry VII’s orders.
It was also nice to read a book from the perspective of someone most people know little about, though many have heard her name.Unfortunately, the book did not delve into the historical events that occurred during Jane Shore's relationship with Edward IV in any kind of detail.
It skimmed over even the largest and most significant incidents that occurred, focusing instead on a superficial love story that could be boiled down to "Edward was gorgeous, rich, and the king, so Jane left her husband for him." Even the details of her relationships with Dorset and Hastings came across very superficial, focusing only on sex.Although I love Jean Plaidy and thoroughly enjoy her writing style, this book is not one of her best.
This book started off very slowly but as I got into it. It became more and more interestingI never knew anything about Jane Shore. From the book Plaidy portrays her as a truly, nice genuine caring person.Although this book covers the same time period as the white queen it covers a completely different perspective
I don't know if it was the best book to read right after finishing The White Queen because I'm not confused on what I think about some of the characters.It was an ok book. I little too romantic for me. But I think that's the authors style.
I enjoyed the way the author used the life of Jane Shore in the forefront of a description of the many significant events that occurred during her time. I would have given more stars if the balance had been toward more history and less romance novelesque descriptions of Jane's love life.
As I was finishing the book, I was getting ready to rip the book apart for a serious downer ending, and then, well, it ends badly, yes, but also, it stayed absolutely true to one particular theory of history and almost had me joining the We-Love-Richard-III-Club
Plaidy/Carr/Holt books are always an enjoyable read and this was no different. I didn't know much about Jane Shore, and thought she brought her to life well - and that she did a good job with Richard III also. Good read.
The story is ok, but the I found Jane to be a bit weak. It is true that for back in that time period she would have seemed a strong woman, but in today's standards she would be seen as weak. The thing I enjoyed most about the book was the backdrop that it all took place in.
I couldn't stop reading this book; I even got up in the night to keep reading it! I cannot stress enough what a great historical fiction writer Jean Plaidy was. She had me actually liking Richard III!
Historical? Depressing.
A fine retelling of the life of Jane Shore. Told in the usual, well written style of all Plaidy's books.
(later published as 'The King's Mistress')
This is a hugely interesting story from Edward IV's reign. I found it to be a bit tedious. However, I read it some time ago and can't quite remember it, and am keen to give it another go.
Jane Shore, mistress of Edward IV.
