https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18143977-all-the-light-we-cannot-see
"In August 1944 the historic walled city of Saint-Malo, the brightest jewel of the Emerald Coast of Brittany, France was almost destroyed by fire....Of the 865 buildings within the walls, only 182 remained standing and all were damaged to some degree." -Philip Beck _____________________________________Two Parallel StoriesThis book is really two parallel stories set during World War II, about two children, growing up in two different countries.
When the Germans attack Paris she and her father must flee to the coastal town of Saint-Malo to live with a great-uncle who lives in a tall, storied house next to a sea wall.This story is suspenseful but read it slowly, so you can savor every word, unhurried.
“So how, children, does the brain, which lives without a spark of light, build for us a world full of light?” I'm going to be honest - love for this book didn't hit me straight away. In fact, my first attempt to read it last year ended with me putting it aside and going to find something easier, lighter and less descriptive to read. I know - meh, what a quitter.But this book is built on beautiful imagery. Both in the literal sense - the physical world of 1940s Paris/Germany - and the metaphoric
It's a beautiful work of genius, but it does get a little dense at times; the prose bloated by details.However, when we get into the meat of this WWII novel, it's also the harrowing story of a childhood torn apart by war.
These two lives we are introduced to seem to be worlds apart, and yet they come together and influence one another.
From the chillingly beautiful prose, to the realization of what the title actually means: that underneath the surface of history, there is light - and stories - that have not been seen; that have gone untold.
A universe of lines crisscrossing in the void.Anthony Doerr's astonishing new novel "All The Light We Cannot See" follows the complex arcs of two such invisible lines through the lives of Werner Pfennig, an orphan boy in pre-World War II Germany and Marie-Laure Leblanc, a blind girl living in Paris with her father.
A war story, a coming-of-age story, a philosophical fable, this is a novel that constantly oscillates between the moral uncertainties of life and the chiselled precision of the natural world that surrounds us.
Adult fictionThis book is getting a lot of well-deserved attention for its unique story and its beautiful writing.
Our two main characters are Marie Laure, a blind French girl who fled here with her uncle from Paris, and Werner, a radio expert in the German army who is stuck in the city when the attack begins.
We jump back and forth in time, and between the two characters’ perspectives to see how both young people were brought to this place.If you like straight-ahead, linear, plot-driven war novels, this is not the book for you.
I couldn't really get into it.The book revolves around Marie-Laure, a blind girl who lives with her father.
Marie has a semi-idyllic childhood until the Nazi's invade Paris and she and her father have to flee to another city, where a reclusive uncle lives.
Unknown to Marie, her father is smuggling the world's most priceless jewel out of the city on behalf of the museum.
He is then drafted to utilize his skills to find resistance armies who are using the radio - but Werner is no soldier and soon realizes the cost of his talent.I found the book somewhat plodding; like you were waiting for something important to happen...and waiting, and waiting, and waiting.
Why write a review if I am such an atypical reader?I will keep this brief since I feel most readers will not react as I have, but isn’t it important that all views are voiced?All readers must agree that the flipping back and forth between different time periods makes this book more confusing.
(I would have preferred that the diamond was woven into the story as one of the objects stolen by the Nazis.) Let's look at how the book portrays WW2.
I do wonder to what extent my appreciation of Brittany as a place is more due to my own time there or the author's writing.
Werner grows up in an industrial town hit by the depression, amidst the rise of the brownshirts; his only real companion is his sister, Jutta, and his only solace the radio - which Werner knows how to operate and fix instinctively, and to which they both listen at night.The Nazis eventually come to power and invade France, forcing Marie-Laure and her father to flee to the northern coastal town of Saint-Malo, an ancient walled city which provides picturesque setting for much of the book.
When reading the synopsis of this novel, I never imagined that I would feel so connected to a book where one of the main characters is blind and the other a brilliant young German orphan who was chosen to attend a brutal military academy under Hitler's power using his innate engineering skills.This novel was so much more than the above states.
The idiosyncrasies of each individual character are so well defined and expressed in such ways that come across the page almost lyrically.
I should emphasize that this book created an image of war in a way that I have never imagined before.
4/20/15 - PULITZER WINNER for 2014   The brain is locked in total darkness of course, children, says the voice. It floats in a clear liquid inside the skull, never in the light. And yet the world it constructs in the mind is full of light. It brims with color and movement. So how, children, does the brain, which lives without a spark of light, build for us a world full of light?  Marie Laure LeBlanc is a teen who had gone blind at age 6. She and her father, Daniel, fled Paris ahead of the German
Anthony Doerr There are three primary time streams here, 1944 as the Allies are assaulting the German-held town, 1940-44, as we follow the progress of Werner and Marie Laure to their intersection, and the 1930s.
The third piece arrived when Doerr learned that when the Germans invaded, the French hid not only their artistic treasures but their important natural history and gemological holdings as well.The story is told primarily in alternating Marie Laure’s and Werner’s experiences.
In addition to a deft application of mirroring in the experiences of Werner and Marie Laure, Doerr brings a poet’s sense of imagery and magic.
Marie-Laure’s sense of the world is filled with shell, snail, and mollusk experiences and references.
“How he wishes he had eyes to see the ultraviolet, eyes to see the infrared, eyes to see the radio waves crowding the darkening sky.” “Open your eyes and see what you can with them before they close forever.” And late in the novel, her great uncle says to the blind girl, “We’ll go to Paris…I’ve never been.
You can show it to me.”The chapters of the book jump around in time -- 1934, 1944, 1940 -- so we know on occasion, for example, how a soldier will die even before the main character meets him.
Honestly, wtf?
I mean, we all know the blind person trope (Daredevil, etc) and the lovable Nazi trope (Hiroshima Mon Amour) and the mystical object searched for by evil Nazis trope (Indiana Jones), so why throw all of these together?
The book was readable but no more so than a pulp fiction thriller.
Honestly, I don't see this as being Pulitzer quality.
The characters were ok, the narration interesting, but a masterpiece?
The best US fiction in 2015?
And please don't accuse me of being too harsh - All Quiet on the Western Front, Winds of War, and The Sympathizer are all better war stories than this one.
This book was so beautiful and haunting.
I fell in love with so many of the characters, and loved how their lives were weaved together.
Knowing the time period this was set in, I knew the ending would hurt.
It did a superb job of showing the reader how the characters felt through their actions, rather than telling.
Whilst the short chapters (on average 1.5 pages) helped to make this read a little quicker, it was still quite a slow book.
I really enjoyed being able to savour it and get to know the characters, however there were some points where it felt a little too dense and slow.
I enjoyed this novel by Anthony Doerr and yet when I was nearing the end I couldn't help feel a a sense of relief to have finished the book.I enjoy historical fiction and really looked forward to this novel by Anthony Doerr as it was set in a time frame that that really interests me.
Because I read quite a lot of novels set around World War Two I love the fact that the author took a a slightly different path with his storytelling and that is what drew me to this novel.I loved the characters of Marie-Laure LeBlanc and Werner Pfennig and the sense of time and setting of the novel.
There is so much here that captivated me - from the beautiful writing to the strong, caring characters to the loving relationships and the way people touched each other's lives during the trying times of WW II.Parallel stories are told in alternating chapters of Marie Laure, a teenage French girl who has been blind since the age of six and Werner, an intelligent, perceptive and sensitive German orphan who learns to fix radios and becomes noticed by the German army.
I loved “The Old Ladies Resistance Club”, led by Madame Manec, housekeeper, friend and caretaker to Ettiene , Marie's great uncle.
So, I know I should be oohing and ahhing over this book, but it just wasn't for me. This is definitely one of those "it's not you, it's me" moments. I can see why many people have given such glowing reviews, but I found it to be unbearably dull and slow-moving. I never felt a strong connection with either of the main characters or the story itself. I'm just glad that it ended.
I feel like I have been on a long gut-wrenching journey, and in a way I have, traveling with two young children, one in Berlin and one in Paris and follow them as they grow-up.
Marie-Laure, a blind girl and her father live in Paris, her father is the keeper of the keys for a prestigious museum.
How long can one pretend everything is fine, trying to keep eyes closed so one cannot see?So it is radios, little built towns and houses, built by Marie-Laure's father so she can get around wherever she lives.
oK.When I started this book, I noticed some similarities to The Book Thief, and although they quickly fell to the wayside, I couldn't help but compare this book to The Book Thief the entire time I was reading it.
And since The Book Thief is my favorite book of all time, it kind of took away some of the enjoyment for me while reading this.The plot and the characters ended up being quite different (which was great), but I just found that the pacing was a bit off for me.
It was a bit too slow for my liking, and that's the only reason I docked a star.
Maybe I missed it while my mind was wandering.Two other things - I have been encountering these a lot lately:- WWII is now definitely entrenched as a YA genre.
I have seen a lot of 5 star review for this book, so maybe I am in the minority.
Side note: I listened to this book and I thought the narrator was great, but, as mentioned above, it did not keep my attention and that has not happened to me in a very long time with audio.
‘open your eyes and see what you can with them before they close forever.’ reading this story reminded me of eating a decadent chocolate cake - so rich and filling that you are only able to eat a couple of bites at a time. meaning this book took me sooo long to finish because there was just so much to savour, so much to appreciate.had this been any other book, i might have complained that it was too slow paced, too dense, too tedious. but i didnt think any of that with this story, regardless of
reading this story reminded me of eating a decadent chocolate cake - so rich and filling that you are only able to eat a couple of bites at a time.
meaning this book took me sooo long to finish because there was just so much to savour, so much to appreciate.had this been any other book, i might have complained that it was too slow paced, too dense, too tedious.
but i didnt think any of that with this story, regardless of how long it took me to reach the final page.
such a beautiful and heartbreaking story and one every person should read.
For efficiency’s sake, I’ll be addressing categories of friends en masse.To those who like big-boughed characters (i.e., more than just stick figures): You get two compelling souls with this one: Marie-Laure, the valiant and inquisitive French girl who went blind at age six, and Werner, the tow-headed German orphan who had a knack for gadgets and science.
As with most good historical fiction, the education you receive may seem almost incidental to the story itself, but it’s an obvious side benefit.To those who like plots that could win the Grand Prix of Monaco: This one’s got plenty of torque, and it takes corners well, too.
"Book - you have the right to a speedy trial" - review  THE DEFENSE  - The story is both heart-warming and heart-breaking at times. Anyone looking for a good cry (or an ugly cry, or a proud cry, or, well, any kind of cry, really), this is the book for you! - Both lead characters are extremely likable and sympathetic. - The book does a brilliant job portraying the bleakness and tragedy of war and the many different ways it can affect people's lives. - Werner's story is particularly effective. Wat
- The story is both heart-warming and heart-breaking at times.
- Werner's story is particularly effective.
- Marie-Laure's early experiences with her blindness and learning to cope with it were well portrayed.
Marie Laure's story in Saint-Malo stagnates for a while before it picks up again.
- The reader risks dehydration from all the tears they will cry while reading this book!
There was more than one moment where this is pretty much an accurate depiction of what I looked while reading:
"All The Light We Cannot See" is one of the most powerful books I've ever read.
I am not a fan of the current trend of devoting one chapter to one character and the next to another and flipping back and forth.
Midway throughout this overly long novel, I felt that I had turned a corner and had finally grasped onto the people of the novel, but seemed again to lose their continuity and their relevance as the book continued to what I felt was a murky conclusion.Sorry to say, I feel like I did when I finished The Book Thief, a bit of a traitor to a book that so many loved, but from which I received not much satisfaction.
My list of favorite quotes will be extensive.In short, I loved this book and would highly recommend it to fans of historical fiction, and those who like World War II stories.
It's as if the city has become a library of books in an unknown language, the houses great shelves of illegible volumes, the lamps all extinguished.""It strikes Werner just then as wondrously futile to build splendid buildings, to make music, to sing songs, to print huge books full of colorful birds in the face of the seismic, engulfing indifference of the world -- what pretensions humans have!
"Open your eyes and see what you can with them before they close forever." It's a story of childhood interrupted by war. Two children - a blind French girl Marie-Laure LeBlanc and a German orphan Werner Pfennig - caught against their will in the unrelenting forces of cruel madness and destruction of World War II, dragged along in the senseless current of history that does not care about the fates or ordinary people. This is a story of their lives until the brief moment in which they collide, to
Two children - a blind French girl Marie-Laure LeBlanc and a German orphan Werner Pfennig - caught against their will in the unrelenting forces of cruel madness and destruction of World War II, dragged along in the senseless current of history that does not care about the fates or ordinary people.
She is a beautiful sheltered angel-like child, cared for by a great father, then by an equally caring uncle, living in a tall house in a fantastic city, reading Jules Verne in Braille, and studying mollusks.
Again, I have a case when I feel guilty for not liking a book more and trying to figure out what is wrong with me.
Talking about subtlety, this novel did not really feel like it was addressing one of the most terrible periods in the World’s history.
I liked reading the novel at times but when I closed the book, I was in no hurry to restart.
The short chapters did not help as I had no problem to close the book after 2 pages, especially at night.
The short chapters also kept me on the outside of the plot and the characters.
Why are all prize winning books so depressing?  Do the Pulitzer Prize judges immediately disqualify fun books? Seriously, I don't think I've seen a happy one yet. Don’t you want to be alive before you die?  We follow two storylines - one set in Germany focused on Werner Pfennig, an orphan, who's always dreamed of an education. He finally gets an opportunity, through the brutal tutelage of the Nazis.And we follow Marie-Laure, a french blind girl much beloved by her father, a locksmith of the Muse
He finally gets an opportunity, through the brutal tutelage of the Nazis.And we follow Marie-Laure, a french blind girl much beloved by her father, a locksmith of the Museum of Natural History.
Unbeknownst to Marie-Laure, her father carries a priceless gem (or one of the three replicas) that is rumored to grant everlasting life to its keeper but nothing but misery to all others around him.
Meanwhile Werner spends all his time in the Nazi army, chasing down enemy radio signals.
Just like the ones that Marie-Laure and her uncle send out to help the allies.
Whoever wins, that’s who decides the history.
The characterizations are superb and I loved the way the stories of Marie-Laure, the blind French girl living in German-occupied Saint-Malo, and Werner, the bright German orphan and recruit to Hitler’s Youth academy, are interlaced.
This theme goes beyond the science of radio transmission to a feeling of the various ways human lives are intertwined.
That great shuttles of souls might fly about, faded but audible if you listen closely enough… the air a library and the record of every life lived, every sentence spoken, every word transmitted still reverberating within it.” All the Light We Cannot See also captivates the reader with intricate models of neighborhoods, keys, hiding places, secret messages and unlikely resistance groups, and love for books and music and knowledge.
It was amazing.
This was a well written, beautifully envisioned, powerful, frustrating, heartbreaking, and ultimately redemptive novel that humanizes a difficult time.Told from the alternating third person narrative perspectives of a blind French girl, a young German boy and a German sergeant major, author Anthony Doerr, who won the 2015 Pulitzer Prize for this work, blends stark realism with elements of legendary fantasy and introspective prose to create a chronicle of a time and place that is human and approachable.
Plot and StructureThe story is told in short chapters that mostly alternate between Werner and Marie-Laure; later on, there’s a third character.
But it’s birds that fill the pages - as incidental creatures, as symbols, and because they are the passion of Frederik, a friend of Werner’s, who has a copy of Audubon’s famous book of birds, and for whom the appearance of an owl is briefly transformative.•	“As the birds rush overhead, she imagines she can feel the light settling over their wings, striking each individual feather.”•	In a fire, “swifts, flushed from chimneys, catch fire and swoop like blown sparks out over the ramparts and extinguishing themselves in the sea.”•	“Marie-Laure is glad to hear the smile enter his voice.
