https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13570.Tsubasa
It feels a bit like a bait-and-switch; for the first half-dozen volumes or so, Tsubasa is merely the episodic crossover adventures of CLAMP's fan-favorite characters Syaoran and Sakura and friends as they hop through worlds populated by other familiar CLAMP faces.
Those who continue reading beyond that point begin seeing character revelations and tiny hints of things to come scattered throughout the next half-dozen volumes, which makes the series a bit more intriguing -- but it's still easy to mistake the series for your standard villain-of-the-week adventure story.And then, around volume 13 or 14, the plot suddenly kicks into high gear.
Well, Wikipedia, I suppose, but even it only becomes comprehensible after one has read the thing maybe twice.I had actually, as usual, started with the anime, but it does not go all the way to the end of the tale, and it skipped some parts I'd been especially curious about.
De-tractions include the utterly tedious fight scenes that seem to be a requirement of the form, and without which one could get through things in half the time and page count with no loss of information.The most complicated end-game I have ever seen finally clears the decks for the happy ending, which is: all the male characters go off into the sunset together, and they finally dump the girl who stays home.
But at the end of the volume I got interested in the story.
I already liked Syaoran, he seems calm and mature character, also determined.
Review of whole series I have mixed feelings about this manga.
Beginning was powerful, some story arcs were interesting.
But it didn't get decent explanations and the ending was horrible.I liked main characters : Shaoran, Sakura, Kurogane, Fai, Dimension witch Yuka However, some were medicore and forgettable.
I didn't like the main evil character, he was one dimensional and uninteresting.
So, the story was like a repetitive fairy tale gone dark and confusing after a while.
“There’s a certain strength that’s needed to be able to cry when you should.” Blog ¦ Bloglovin’ ¦ Tumblr ¦ Instagram
Tsubasa Reservoir Chronicle, primer tomo escrito por CLAMP. Una historia muy interesante, en el que encontraremos personajes de otras de las historias más famosas de las autoras, con una trama muy novedosa e intensa, en el que Syaoran deberá encontrar partes del alma de la princesa Sakura antes de que sea demasiado tarde, pero no estará solo en esta aventura, por lo que será más llevadera toda la presión y la carga. Este primer tomo me ha fascinado por completo, por lo que si eres fan de alguna de las historias de CLAMP, esta historia es muy recomendable. 4,5/5 estrellas
But, I didn't read Tsubasa straight after it was released in Thailand, I was too busy obsessing over something else at that time but one of my friends was hooked on it (but never got to the end because it became too much of a mindfuck for her) But hey, a few years later is better than never starting at all!The plot is good with the twist and turns in it can make anyone suffer a brain freeze and want to abandon ship.
It is also first and foremost a love story, what guy would go on a journey crossing dimensions to save your memories while kicking ass at the same time?
Basically just a lame excuse to re-visit old characters from previous CLAMP titles in new settings, the story revolves around an alternate version of Syaoran (originally of "Card Captor Sakura" fame) going dimension-hopping with a magician and warrior from one random world to the next, all to recover the memories of Sakura (also an alternate version, of course).
Along the way, they meet--you guessed it--alternate versions of previously-existing CLAMP characters who either hinder or help the heroes.Really, it's this kind of aimless wandering around that bores me to death (much like Rumiko Takahashi's "Inu Yasha" series).
And because of the constant dimension-hopping, it's hard to get to know any of the characters, much less care about them.
Childhood friends, Princess Sakura and Syaoran, the son of a famous archeologist, meet up again after seven years apart.
Now Syaoran must travel through space and time to gather her memories back and save Sakura!
Two other space/time travelers meet Syaoran; one of his own accord, the other banished.
I love the swoop-ey illustrations that lend a feeling a weightlessness to the time travel, although I have a little bit of a problem with a helpless girl character.
My manga friend who has read the series assures my that as the series progresses Sakura changes and kicks butt.
one with a alternate universe storyline going on.
Sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn't.
Tsubasa is one that works.
Very well.With a pretty original plot driving the series and familiar characters being developed in an alternate but convincing way, the CLAMP writers have made a manga I immediately loved.Can't really explain why but it hit all the right parts for me: interesting characters and development, good and original take on plot, the drawing is somewhat simplistic and detailed all at the same time but classicly CLAMP (which means you can expect quality), and it left me wanting more.
The story is very entertaining and the characters are well-developed and it has a good beginning.
The need to save a friend and amnesia that destroys or twists the relationship between two characters are tropes I love.
Their dynamic so far mostly consists of Sakura being sleepily sweet and oblivious and Syaoran being angsty and determined, which is not everything that I want from an amnesia premise.
That's fun, but none of the worlds can be as well developed as xxxHolic's Tokyo, by definition.ETA: Now that I've finished the series, this review badly needs updating, mostly with flailing love and hilarifying angst.
I've been meaning to read this for a while but never got the time to.
Took my history test few hours ago and I deserve this break.
Lol.Binge reading is a thing.
Reading this, nostalgia hits like a truck.
All the characters are familiar where all it take is a little recall.
I don't think I mind alternate dimensions though most reviewers are disgruntled over the fact that the characters are not the same as before.
I think they are at the very core the same but the situations make them different.
We are after all the product of our environment.
Fue un deleite saber que habían hecho una historia con todos los personajes de Clamp que tanto habíamos extrañado, más los de X by Clamp, que los había extrañado mucho y esperé tanto para verlos como Tsubaru y Seichirou Sakurazukamori. Al buen estilo de Clamp, se dice que continuaría la historia y no me canso de leerla porque es definitivamente una de las obras que más personajes Clamp ha reunido.
I can't even say how much I love these books. For some reason I always thought that the first book was boring when I was younger; after reading it again I can't believe that I ever thought that. It's a beautiful start to a beautiful series.
Gleich mal in einem Rutsch durchgelesen xD Liebe es einfach und Kuro is der Beste xD
LADIES KICKING ASS AND MOKONA TOO
I like the way Clamp is bringing in characters from their past works.
That being said, you can enjoy it without having read those series, as the characters are completely different.
I would recommend reading XXXhOliC as well.
I vaguely remember the first 6 volumes of that, from when the library believed in having the whole series.Again, this is not necessary, but highly recommended, since that is a direct tie in to this series.Also, make sure you have at least two or three of these on hand before starting, or you will be in agonies of suspense!
A well written, and fun story. I've seen this around before, but never heard anything about it. I love the art style though, and had to give it a try! Inside and out, the artwork is amazing, and the story is just as entertaining! I love the characters, Syaoran and Sakura are both likeable, and Fei and Kurogane are great together! I also enjoyed the side characters, and the setting is easy to imagine, yet unique enough to hold my attention. I will definitely continue this series, and try to find the original series as well.
It's a cleverly written manga with likable characters and a fun journey for readers to travel.
Syaoran and Sakura are the main characters (from Cardcaptor Sakura) and they live in this fantasy world where Sakura is the princess of Clow Kingdom and Syaoran is an archaeologist.
It's funny at times but it's also something we've seen before.Of course, this series is tied to CLAMP's other series XXXHolic and these characters go see the Dimensional Witch Yuko Ichihara and she sends them on a quest while each of them is paying a price for going on this journey.
Tsubasa: RESERVoir CHRoNiCLE by CLAMP is a companion series to xxxHolic.
As I'm reading xxxHolic I feel obligated to try Tsubasa: RESERVoir CHRoNiCLE.Volume 1 sets up the story.
Syaoran is an archeologist's son and Sakura is a princess, the younger sister of the king.
The manga recounts how Syaoran helps her recover them at the price of her never being able to remember their friendship.To be able to chase after her memories, they need the help of the Dimensional Witch and are sent there with the aid of the king's magician (and best friend).
By the time I got to reading volume 1 I felt like I had already read it and I was to the point of being sick of the set up.
I'd been putting off picking this series up for a while, what with it being a kind of cross-over with a number of CLAMP's other series, and in general I'm opposed to cross-overs because to some level I find there to be a certain laziness about them.
There are some characters that wind up being almost the same as their source (Chi from Chobits and Sora from X/1999, for examples), but overall this hasn't felt as lazy as I was thinking it would be.As for the actual story, so far I'm enjoying the set-up and the idea of the cast of heroes journeying between different dimensions in order to find Sakura's lost memories.
I would rate and review this book for all of the volumes--all 28 of them.At first, what intrigued me was the fact that Sakura and Syaoran from CCS were back in somehow different adventure.
But when I was read it, I was totally wrong.This story told about the whole new adventure that have no--or just slight--connection from CCS.
From then the story spiralling and twisting in a amazing and intriguing plot--peeling the darkness of the characters, their sins, their masks--and all in all, it ended with an, actually not too satisfied but there're no other way to end this better, open ending that made us dragged back to the beginning of the (new) dimension journey.
It spans 28 volumes, and is one of the most mindbending, brain torturing series ever.
Just when you think you know what's happening, CLAMP reveals another piece of the puzzle.
Even now, I'm still trying to put the pieces together.
Definitely recommended!TRC takes the characters from CardCaptor Sakura and pulls them through multiple worlds, searching for the scattered fragments of Sakura's memories.
The series relies heavily on cameos from beloved characters out of CLAMP's other works, and it's fun for fans of their other series to see them popping up all over the place in TRC.If your brain can handle the plot twists, you should read it!
I'm rereading this series, because I never finished it and when I went to the bookstore the other day, I saw it was complete. I got about halfway through and then got so busy with school that I lost track. Which is a shame because this series is amazing and Syaoran is my favorite character ever. If you've ever read any of CLAMP's other manga (which you should), you have to read this one, too. It's a great story, plus it's intertwined with so many other series. I'm excited to reread and find out what actually happens.
This series is like skipping through the "Life and Times of CLAMP." Which is a good thing.And the translators notes? Excellent. Read them. It will help. This series and its crossover, xxxHolic, use many Japanese cultural details foreigners might not know about, and the notes help. The notes also help explain things with the crossover readers might not realize if they don't follow both series at the same time.It's fun. The series gets confusing at times, but overall it's a very good series.
semua karakter manga karya clamp tumpah ruah disini.seperti reuni antar karakter begitu.ceritanya makin seru,keren,menantang,memacu adrenalin&dramatis!tidak salah clamp mempertemukan mereka dalam 1 cerita kompilasi ini,bahkan unik & fleksibel.sungguh ide yang jenius!
Estado: todos los tomos/capítulos leidos.
i really loved this book but the ending of it is very said....So thats why i like ccs(cardcaptor sakura) better!!
This book is about a pricess go to www.google.com/syaoran to get tones of pics. of syarorna and meny of them are with Sakura!!XD
THe ONLY manga I can continue with as this is just simply ASTOUNDING!!!!!!
