https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18799.Sodom_and_Gomorrah
and picture this on the big screen: we open with our hero, crouching behind some flower bushes, unmoving - waiting, just waiting for a bee to come around and assist in the pollination of the flowers.(pshow, whoosh - many michael-bayish essplosions) and although not strictly supported by textual evidence, i expect his little sticky hand was at the ready to relieve his straining trousers should this act of hot plant sexx occur.
this one has the humor and the bitterness for which proust is known, with fewer daydream-y bits that make you want to shake him a little, like when the concussed try to take a nap.plus, this book does not end with a whisper, like some of the other ones, but with the bang of a firm, declarative statement - ZING!!
از این رو عادت کرده بود به اندیشه های بی اهمیتی پناه ببرد که به او امکان می داد به کُنه چیزها [«حقیقت» چیزها] پی نبرد - ص ۳۰۱ جلد اول.این دو امر (کلبی مسلکی، اپیکوری مسلکی) معلول درکی عقلانی از زمان است که در آن زمان چیزی نیست جز اکنون های متوالی که می آیند و از بین می روند، و گذشته چیزی مرده و از دست رفته است.
When they are happy, calm, satisfied with their surroundings, we marvel at their precious gifts; it is the truth, literally, that speaks through their lips. A touch of headache, the slightest prick to their self-esteem, is enough to alter everything. The luminous intelligence, become brusque, convulsive and shrunken, no longer reflects anything but an irritable, suspicious, teasing self, doing everything possible to displease.It was indeed the corrupting effect, as it was also the charm, of thi
It also didn’t help that, unlike the previous installations in the series, I finished the last twenty or so pages in a state of aggravated fury brought upon not by incomprehension, but the clearest understanding one could possibly hope for.
No, instead the narrator glorifies his own labors of love in all their hypersensitive irrationality, and resigns himself to a lifetime of torment not when (view spoiler)[his grandmother dies, but when he believes the girl whom he casually treats as a sexual play toy is doing the same with others of her own gender (hide spoiler)].I won’t deny that many of the society events were amusing, and that every so often a sentence full with inherent truth would crop up, or that the pages detailing grief were as heartrending as one of Proust’s skill could make them.

As our vision is a deceiving sense, a human body, even when it is loved as Albertine’s was, seems to us to be a few yards’ at a few inches’ distance from us. And similarly with the soul that inhabits it. A good case can be made that these books should be read one after the other, so as not to lose the narrative thread or to forget the many characters involved. But I am finding that an equally good case can be made for spacing them out. Memory is crucial to this novel; the remembrance of things
The length of the series itself makes the passing of time almost palpable; and likewise, all of Proust's sentences are microcosms of the novel as a whole, each one stretching across the page, forcing you to hold the beginning in mind as you slowly make your way to the end.
For the first three volumes, it was easy to lose any sense of cultural or chronological divide when faced with so many universal constants of humanity that all but waltzed off their pages and pages of lyrical metaphors; in S&G, we have a Narrator who recalls how the first time he saw an airplane overhead filled him with childlike wonder and lives in a time when it is apparently totally normal for a man to pick out his female companion's evening attire, which are but a few examples that, like unchecked homophobia, for the first time in my journey with Proust heralded a struggle to bridge the gap between when these volumes were written and when I'm reading them, bringing into stark reality just how much separates modernism from modern times, regardless of how well the common ground of so many other shared human experiences minimized the inevitable differences in eras and epochs.
But Proust takes his title from one of his favourite poets, Alfred de Vigny (Baudelaire was the other, according to the famous questionnaire):Bientôt se retirant dans un hideux royaume,La Femme aura Gomorrhe et l'Homme aura Sodome,Et, se jetant, de loin, un regard irrité,Les deux sexes mourront chacun de son côtéFrom: La Colére de SamsonPiquant: de Vigny wrote this poem when his mistress, Marie Dorval became the intimate friend of George Sand.
One who appears strong, but is made weak by their obsessive love.
Jacques-Émile Blanche painted Robert de Montesquieu, one of the models for the Baron de Charlus (my favourite character):
"The conversation of a woman one loves is like the soil that covers a subterranean and dangerous water; one feels at every moment beneath the words the presence, the penetrating chill of an invisible pool; one perceives here and there its treacherous percolation, but the water itself remains hidden." As the title indicates, the fourth book of the ISoLT series deals with the nature of Desire, of the forbidden kind.
Pathology of Love The implicit theme running throughout the series seems to be a study of pathological traits of excessive jealousy, insecurity & possessiveness– in the presence of which, all relationships are bound to be doomed.Marcel's paranoia & insecurity about Albertine's so-called lesbian tendency & his desire to control her sexuality; parallels that of Swann's about Odette, Saint-Loup & Rachel, M.
Reading Proust's introduction, I was immediately struck by the timeliness and timelessness of its theme: to a certain extent, he could be writing of today.
The beginning of the introduction is also very funny; our narrator continues his snooping ways even while he's on tenterhooks over his own obsessive love, as usual.Again, as usual, reading this volume of ISoLT was a back-and-forth experience: love over the prose and insights, and exasperation at, once again, the tiresome salon talk.
There was one new exasperation: the narrator's making fun of both the hotel-manager's and then the lift-boy's ways of speaking.
But Proust himself created the divisions within the novel, gave them their titles, and undoubtedly wanted the reader to consider them distinctly, but volume four especially felt like a link in the chain that was quite dependent on what came before and what follows, that is to say it felt transitional, and indeed transformational, because I am sure that after the revelation that closes Sodom and Gomorrah (one that sent me rushing to start volume 5), Marcel will never be the same.
So I will speak generally of a few things that struck me in volume four:1.By the end of Sodom and Gomorrah the structure of In Search of Lost Time really begins to bare its teeth.
It is hard to grab this one volume and grade or inspect it separate from the previous three, and seems premature to attempt to capture the full body of ISOLT before reading the next three.
Still, having read 2700+ pages of Proust now, I can still feel confident in saying that the guy is brilliant, weird, distressing, mesmerizing, queer, petulant, boring, beautiful, raving, labyrinthine, decadent, lyrical, perverse, funky, banal, and that is just a sampling of my feelings about Proust on one of his damn pages.
It is also a novel that needs to be eaten in discrete and slow chunks.
--Sodom and Gomorrah (In Search of Lost Time Volume IV)NotesAddendaSynopsis
And you had the gall to tease me for caring, too, right after your tore out your own heart (or the narrator’s, whatever):I two or three times had the idea, momentarily, that the world in which this room and these bookcases were, and in which Albertine counted for so little, was perhaps an intellectual world, which was the sole reality, and my unhappiness something like that which we get from reading a novel, and which a madman alone could make into a lasting and permanent unhappiness, extending into his life; that it would take only a slight effort of will perhaps to attain to that real world, to return into it by passing beyond my grief, as though bursting through a paper hoop, and no more to care about what Albertine had done than we care about the actions of the imaginary heroine of a novel after we have finished reading it.Just an “imaginary heroine”, huh?
kayıp zamanın izinde’nin dördüncü bölümü kahramanımızın tanık olduğu/gözetlediği bir eşcinsel yakınlaşma sahnesiyle başlıyor ve serinin genel yapısına bağlı olarak bu gözlemleri eşcinselliğe-eşcinsellere dair uzun bir söylev/deneme izliyor.
kahramanımız aynı zamanda anlatıcımız, yazarımız -ve büyük ölçüde proust- olduğuna göre bu bölümün hassasiyeti de anlaşılıyor elbette.romanın diğer bir hassas izleği ise dreyfus olayı.
tarafların adalete/hakka göre değil soylara/aidiyetlere göre belirlendiği ve ayrımların keskinleştiği bu dönemin avrupa’yı ve hatta dünyayı bekleyen kanlı/karanlık günlerin habercisi olduğunu gösteriyor.eşcinsellik ve dreyfus davası dışında roman serinin üç ana temasını, yüksek sosyete-sanat-aşk, ilerletiyor/derinleştiriyor elbette.
kahramanımız yüksek sosyete içinde daha deneyimli ve daha sağlam bir konuma sahip artık.
Let's say three stars for interminable party scenes and seven stars for solo Marcel going on about grandma and dreams and seeing an airplane for the first time (maybe my favorite page/paragraph so far -- the end of 581 and most of 582 -- typed up for safekeeping below).
Might add some quotations later.Here's the bit from page 581-582 about seeing an airplane for the first time: "I felt this longing to escape especially strongly one day when, having left Albertine at her aunt's, I had gone on horseback to call on the Verdurins and had taken an unfrequented path through the woods the beauty of which they had extolled to me.
(Pierre-Auguste Renoir, Bal du moulin de la Galette) "As pessoas não param de mudar de posição relativamente a nós. Na marcha insensível mas eterna do mundo consideramo-las imóveis, num instante de visão, demasiado curto para que se apreenda o movimento que as arrasta. Mas basta que escolhamos na nossa memória duas imagens delas em movimentos diferentes, porém bastante próximos, para que não se tenham alterado em si mesmos, ao menos de maneira sensível, e a diferença entre as duas imagens é a me
(Pierre-Auguste Renoir, Bal du moulin de la Galette)
  "As pessoas não param de mudar de posição relativamente a nós. Na marcha insensível mas eterna do mundo consideramo-las imóveis, num instante de visão, demasiado curto para que se apreenda o movimento que as arrasta. Mas basta que escolhamos na nossa memória duas imagens delas em movimentos diferentes, porém bastante próximos, para que não se tenham alterado em si mesmos, ao menos de maneira sensível, e a diferença entre as duas imagens é a medida da deslocação que operam em relação a nós."
Yapmış olduğum ikinci okumamda, ilk okumam esnasında gözden kaçırmış olduğum şeyleri büyük bir şaşkınlıkla en baştan ve daha kapsamlı bir şekilde özümseme fırsatı buluyorum.
Elbette çok göreceli ve öznel sebeplerim var bunun için ama genel geçer görüşte de Proust'un yeri altın harflerle kazınmış durumda.
Ancak arkasından gelen ikinci ve özellikle üçüncü kitap (Guarmentas Tarafı) en zor okunan kısımlar.
Bu soylular kervanının da ikinci ve üçüncü kitabın görevi, sonra gelen kitapların daha iyi anlaşılmasını sağlamak amacıyla atılmış bir zemin gibi.
Fakat buna istinaden eserden uzaklaşmayın zira sonrasında gelen bu 'Sodom ve Gomorro' Proust'un dehasına yakınlaştığınız, aynı zamanda olay odaklı bir seyir izleme keyifini tattığınız bir bölüm.
As the title implies, Sodom and Gomorra is the descent into hell - or more aptly, the cruel and unseemly underside of the society described by Le Coté de Guermantes.
We have the craven Charlus and Jupien (mirroring the lesbian scene that the narrator sees in the first book).
The narrator has his first taste of death and mourning as his grandmother which cuts him to the bone.
It is an exciting and brutal book full of action and description in equal parts and the growing obsession of the narrator for the possession of Albertine.
This of course is the subject of the next book.
Once again it was some of the Salons that tended to decrease my connection although the descriptions of the Balbec area and our narrator's return to the coast caught me up again.In a section that seemed to sum up much of the meaning of this book, Proust writes:Other women, it was true, had been interposed between the Albertine loved on that first occasion and the one whom at present I hardly ever left; other women, notably the Duchesse de Guermantes.
(p 401)I am looking forward to the remaining volumes of this Proustian adventure.Addendum: I am also providing a link to another review of this book which I very much appreciated.
In this vein, volume 4 provides the following: "I was beginning to think that "recognitions" might indeed express an important part of life, if one knew how to penetrate to the romantic core of things, when all of a sudden the truth flashed across my mind and I realised that I had been absurdly ingenuous." (Side note: Alternate source for Gaddis's title?)So we have this process continually taking place for the narrator as he ventures out into new places and penetrates new social circles, but layered on top of that is the whole Time/Memory aspect.
(view spoiler)[ The narrator visits Balbec for a second time and remembers the time he spent there in volume 2 accompanied by his grandmother, he also learns more about the state of her health during their previous trip and realizes that she was much more ill than he every thought even then.
Like Balzac, whom he admired, Proust focused his sensibility upon high society in Paris in his heyday.
Despite the despicable ways that the characters often treat each other, Proust speaks within the tapestry of the "human comedy" as the humble voice of reason.
But for Proust society was his life and his legacy is partly at least the light that he sheds upon his own human comedy.
He didn't live long enough to read the publication of half the volumes of his greatest masterpiece: Volume 4 was the last he lived to see published.
http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b0076qndDescription: Desperate to avoid the tortures of love, Marcel tries to make himself unavailable to Albertine. Meanwhile, the Baron de Charlus suffers heartbreak. Stars James Wilby.Revisiting, via BBC R4x, all the books in remembrance, our world has altered too.
P. 338- "Porque o instinto de imitação e a ausência de coragem governam tanto as sociedades como as multidões. E toda a gente se ri de uma pessoa de quem vê os outros fazerem troça, mas não deixará de a venerar dez anos mais tarde num meio onde é admirada. É dessa mesma forma que o povo expulsa ou aclama os reis."
Love of ostentation will strike the reader as the shameless behavior of polite society as is self-importance and social categorization.Proust has us realizing that getting to know people better makes them change before our own eyes with displays that can often be most infuriating.
Perhaps Proust's characters do not feel any guilt for their actions, and so for Beckett that meant that "There is no question of right and wrong." It is true that Proust doesn't expose his characters to a shameful glance and that might make them be perceived as being shameless.
Alla faccia della Cattleya, con cui nel primo romanzo Proust alludeva al sesso.Il tema di questo quarto capitolo dell'opera Alla ricerca del tempo perduto è proprio l'omosessualità, ma attenzione, Proust si concentra sulle falsità legate alla sessualità degli individui, a quanti sfruttino il proprio corpo per ottenere del potere e a quanti fingano una eterosessualità inesistente, capovolgendo così il senso comune del perbenismo.
Che liberazione deve essere stato scrivere questo romanzo!
Si arriva ad un punto, attenzione spoiler, in cui il narratore è geloso della sua donna perchè sa che ha relazioni lesbo.
I have been so distracted with work and other books that I've fallen behind schedule and now I've forgotten the events and even some of the characters.I enjoyed the three books I did finish immensely.
I did not place as much emphasis on the character interactions, as a novel of this scale is so vast that I did not focus on the totality of it.
Instead I enjoyed our narrator's 'non-fiction' thoughts on memory and life and society.
This journey, as incomplete as it is, was one which brought me much entertainment and even wisdom as can be derived from conversations with books and about them.Some day I will come back here, and I will finish what I have started.
The narrator continues to pursue and Albertine and get bored of her.
Proust explores homosexuality in some detail; both male and female.
Of course the Proust scholars continue to debate the real nature of the narrator's lovers; Albertine, Andree and Gilberte are all feminised forms of male names.
Proust also makes interesting observations and reflections on death, grief and ageing.
The narrator lost his grandmother in the previous volume and he continues to feel her loss and dream about her.
I don't really feel the need to over analyse at this point because I'm just enjoying the journey; it's like falling into an impressionist painting
پروست هم خسته ات می کنه ؛ هم دوستش داری ....
This is volume four of Marcel Proust’s, “In Search of Lost Time.” I assume that, if you have made it this far, that you intend to read to the end – however, if you are thinking of starting this and have not read the earlier books, then do please begin at volume one.
We have all experienced these feelings of jealousy, desire and these aspects of human nature and behaviour and, through understanding them, sympathise with the people who come alive within these pages.
I am glad I finally got around to reading, “In Search of Lost Time,” and look forward to reading on.
He writes that in the past he has found himself "...stupidly thinking that people could have but one sort of love." But that's just one of three main plot lines: the second is the Dreyfus affair, and society is far more passionate about Dreyfus than about sexual preferences.
This is the final volume of "In Search of Lost Time" published within the author's own lifetime: the remaining 3 volumes were published posthumously.
But Proust had achieved international fame with the publication of the second volume and I believe he embraced that fame to produce what is turning out to be, so far, one of my favorite literary works.
