https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7173336-the-mountain-between-us
Dr. Ben Payne is hoping to get back to his patients after having been away for a medical conference and some much needed mountain time.
Ashley, a writer for a magazine, is anxious she’ll end up missing her own wedding, just days away, if she can't find a way to get home now.Over a massive expanse of wilderness, the small plane they chartered goes down, leaving Ben and Ashley stranded high on a plateau with nothing but mountains, snow and trees for miles.
Naturally, I had to wonder, what could have torn a couple once so incredibly close so far apart?
Really sappy, manipulative, tear-jerking writing on just about every front.Now, it was obvious to me at the very beginning of the book that (view spoiler)[Ben's wife was dead.
(hide spoiler)] I read the book before seeing the movie, but IMO it was super-easy and early to figure out in the film, as well.
Now, it never actually turns into a 'good book' IMO, but Martin's writing improves slightly.
Another good thing about both the book and the movie is Martin (and whoever wrote the script for the film) resists the easy impulse to make Ashley/Alex's fiancé a piece of shit.
This is my first book to read of Martin's and it definitely won't be the last!
These characters and their hardships, mentally and physically through their time in the mountains gripped my heart.
This book has a great storyline of thrills and survivorship but intertwined with a mental rebuilding of souls.
This one will be set as one of the best reads of 2017 for me, and hope the big screen pulls this one off.
It will need to be gripping to do this book justice.
Cheers to movie time and the next fascinating Charles Martin story.
I rarely go back and change my rating but this book has been haunting me. And although It read more like a wilderness survival manual than a "romance" novel. The story line is beautiful, I wasn't being fair to this book. I went back and re-read a few chapters just to make sure it was me and not this book. It's a good book that stayed with me and I debated over it on and off for a few months. Sorry.
Basically, the tale here is of Ashley and Ben, strangers who meet at the airport while trying to get to their respective homes.
Movie ends, and they walk off into the sunset.
And I decided to attempt to read this as a tale of survival with a little Lifetime Movie of the Week thrown in for good measure and things went a lot better.
Book # this challenge ended 13 days ago but I am still reading whatever queues up at the library anyway because much like Depeche Mode – I just can’t get enough.
Oh, and he'll be an Eagle scout, super-fit athlete, avid mountain climber, and just all-around general great sportsman, familiar with fishing and bow-hunting and setting traps.
Oh, the luck!I also hope that the pilot of said plane will be an avid sportsman in his own right whose plane just happens to be filled with fishing reels and bait and a bow (with quiver of arrows) and various other sundry equipment which will come in handy at just the right moment(s)!
You believe in things you cannot see and speak a language that only hearts knew.So if you're like me, you only picked up this book because it's been made into a film starring the delightful Kate Winslet and the very dreamy Idris Elba.
Watching the trailer, I was thinking " Another action movie where characters battle the elements." Of course, I was also thinking "Gee that Kate Winslet is one lucky gal- stuck on a boat with Leonardo DiCaprio, getting visited on your sick bed by Johnny Depp, now stuck on a mountain with Idris Elba.
Girl, I wish I had those kind of problems." BUT this book is so much more as Ben and Ashley battle the elements.It is also a love story.
The characters were real and the survival story was good enough that I stayed up late(r) to finish it.
And, thank goodness, it had a mostly happy ending!On the other hand, why wasn't this man in a mental institution?
Why did he bury his wife in the conservatory out back?
For that matter, what well-adjusted, SANE man states that he "slept with" his wife, but really means that he slept on her tomb?Like figure skating, some books need a dual rating system, one for technical difficulty, one for artistic merit.
This is one of those books.
I could not finish reading this book so i skimmed it.
Survival stories are one of my favorites but this was just too much to be believed.
Everything goes too well for a male doctor and a female writer, both nearly at death's door after a small airplane crash into a mountain.
How incredible that they have many of their survival tools at hand.
Thank goodness we have a doctor as well.
Really, this just a long date in the mountains after a plane crash.
And pay homage to Nicholas Sparks for supplying the essence of that finishing touch.
The Mountain Between Us was both a romance and adventure/survival story that kept me engaged. I wanted to keep reading to find out what was going to happen. Yes, some of the events were too convenient and predictable, but in IMHO it was worth the read. If you want to read a romantic, hopefully, wholehearted book, read this one. I look forward to the screen version.
I first heard about this book last spring, in a “books to read before they become movies” type of article.
The Mountain Between Us is a story about two strangers, Ben, a doctor from Florida, and Ashley, a writer from Atlanta, who charter a plane to Denver, in the hopes of trying to make it home before a snowstorm hits the West.
I loathe truly cold weather, I am not a wilderness girl, and I’m not sure, even with adrenaline, that I’d actually find ways to continuously survive, like create shelter when there wasn’t one to be found, hunt and prepare animals for food, etc.
a survival story of a man and woman on ice mountain after a plane crash, two injured strangers relyi
★★★  “The High Uintas Wilderness. Largest east-to-west mountain range on the continent, home to 1.3 million acres of uncivilized wilderness, gets five to seven hundred inches of snow a year—more in some of the higher elevations. More than seven hundred lakes, some of the best fishing and hunting anywhere.” “Sounds remote.” … “In the middle is a national forest that’s designated a wilderness, which means there are no motorized vehicles of any kind allowed. Hence, it’s one of the more remote place
I know, I know, the disaster/survival component was actually one big metaphor for having hope and perseverance so I can forgive the reluctance to get as real as it would probably be for you and me...and of course Liam Neeson.
(hide spoiler)]You might wonder why I gave as high of a rating as I did given my spoilery complaints but like I said in the beginning, the story really did have me flipping the pages.
This book somehow manages to be incredibly real and detailed without becoming gruesome, which is a testimony to the author's delightful command of the English language.
It is evident that the author did his research about every facet of the book's subject matter, giving it an authenticity that makes it read like truth.Dr. Ben Payne, orthopedic surgeon, has been in Colorado for a medical conference and took the chance to go hiking for a few days—"I take long runs on the beach and climb mountains when I can get to them." Now he's en route back home and gets stranded by weather in Salt Lake City.
Of course, as they board, she ends up sitting by him, as they wait to take off, she tells him of her need to get home so she doesn’t miss her own wedding, and little by little they share a bit of themselves in a brief chat – before the flight is ultimately cancelled.Chartering a plane, Ben remembers Ashley’s need to get back, as well, and asks the pilot, Grover, if he can bring one more person, and soon thereafter they are all airborne.
Three and a half stars.Adventure/ survival stories don’t usually impinge on my radar but after having read another Charles Martin book and enjoying it and recommendations from others about this one, I decided to give it a go.
The story concerns surgeon Ben Payne and Ashley Knox, a young magazine writer, who is flying back home to get married.
I found a lot of the surviving in the wild terrain and descriptions hard to read and admit to skimming some.
Some of the dialogue between her and Ben is quite clever.I enjoyed some aspects of this story.
Hollywood Movie News  Congrats, Charles!Awesome Book!
A Florida gal, have all Martin's books (My favorite author of all time).
If you have not read this author, you are missing out.
Both in the offering…and the accepting.” ― Charles Martin, The Mountain Between UsBehind the Scenes: Cannot wait for the movie!!
Go behind the scenes of The Mountain Between Us, in theaters October 6, 2017.
The film is directed by Academy Award nominee Hany Abu-Assad and stars Academy Award winner Kate Winslet and Golden Globe winner Idris Elba.Look for upcoming Send Down the Rain Coming May 8, 2018.
when I saw the trailer for the movie starring those two unfortunate-looking actors Kate Winslet and Idris Elba.
The trailer looked fantastic: a plane crash at 11,000 feet, and two strangers forming a strong bond and relying on one another to survive.
I'm not sure how a survival story between two beautiful strangers ends up being boring, but it kind of was.
It felt...
The dialogue felt staged/forced.
I think the movie has the potential to be better.
There were a few good scenes in the book that a movie could really play up.
O final não me surpreendeu...já calculava.Vou sem dúvida ver o filme!---(...)''A montanha ente nós'' é um livro de sobrevivência, um teste aos limites e as capacidades do ser humano em condições extremas.
(...)Tenho mais dois livros do autor para ler e embora não me pareça que pegue em mais nenhum dele este ano, em 2018 vou voltar sem dúvida a Charles Martin.
Este livro também me fez lembrar muito outro livro que tenho por ler: ''Sozinhos na Ilha'' da Tracey-Garvis Graves, aqui com um ambiente de mais calor e sol.
Honestly, I didn't know what to expect going into this book; I chose it for one of the categories on my reading challenge this year.
I liked both of these characters and I wanted to know what happened next to them.
Were there things that happened in this story that were a little too convenient for the circumstances?
I simply enjoyed the story as written and couldn't wait to see what happened next, and I'm not ashamed to say it tugged on my heart strings more than once.
I hope I enjoy the movie just as much.(2017 reading challenge: a book that will be a movie this year)
The author avoided using deus ex machine to get his characters out of their very tight spot.
The story was told in the first person from the hero's POV interspersed with diary entries which he was recording for his wife on a tape recorder.
Spoiler read at your own risk (view spoiler)[His feelings for his wife from whom he is separated seem much stronger than his feelings for the heroine and the fact that they got together in the end was the only thing that seemed as if it could have been led up to a bit more strongly.
The relationship development lacked just a bit between the hero and the heroine because of the strength of his obvious love for his wife.
The Mountain Between Us came across my feed a couple weeks ago (Thanks, Lisa!).
I was quite intrigued, as this is a plane-crash-survival story AND it is going to be a movie (coming out in October per imbd)...I was sold!!
I absolutely love survival stories...and books that are turned into movies!I really enjoyed this book and even though there were times I had to suspended disbelief (which is common with fictional survival stories) I was hooked and couldn't read fast enough to reach the ending.
Overall, this made for a great weekend read and I look forward to seeing the movie in the fall!
OMG! If I could give this book ten stars I would. I absolutely loved it!! It is now on my list of my most favorite books. You must read this!!
They sounded like pleasant reads that might appeal to our members who like inspirational or gentle reads, feel good novels, heart-warming stories or something without violence.
I suggested Charles Martin and asked that she let me know what she thought.
Take a leap of faith and just enjoy the story.I think you would classify this book as Christian but I saw it more as faith based and would not want to pigeon-hole the author in any one genre.It was just what I needed at the time.
If you've read any I'd like to know your thoughts.
Nor should there be obscenity, foolish talk or coarse joking, which are out of place..." (NIV)Content issues:* alcohol, including a woman drinking while pregnant* one line of mythology* one drug reference* expletives, including initialism* crude talk, including of body parts* coarse jokes* lots of focus on sex* nudity (multiple occasions)* many mentions of people being in their underwear or stripping* lots of focus on body parts, some in sexual ways* typos, including inconsistent verb tense in a couple of spots (this one did not effect my rating)There were also a couple of confusing chapter endings that, I think, were meant to be hooks.
I had no idea how or if I would like this book but I really enjoyed it. It was a little slow in some places. I also felt Ashley's POV was a little unrealistic. She went through major, MAJOR trauma yet kept a very upbeat, light attitude about everything. Ben on the other hand played off much more real to me. Very "guyish". Some of the language is a bit crude and may not be comfortable for all readers. I would like to read more by this author in the future. 4 1/2 stars.
Really good, but I wished there were fewer flashbacks.
I saw the movie trailer, (which looks amazing!) and I had a recommendation from a friend to read this.
If I could have, I would have read it in a couple of days.
It's one of those books you can't wait to get home and crack open!
Ben & Ashley are complete strangers who meet up at the airport.
Ben is a surgeon trying to get home.
It goes back as Ben records messages to his wife, and tells their love story.
I had to grab for the tissues (a sure sign it's going to make my favorites list!)Grab this book before the movie comes out in October.
Тази книга може да се използва и като наръчник за оцеляване в извънредни условия.
Както и предишната му книга, която съм чела , и тази, са написани толкова нахъсано, типично по американски, че преминават в друга категория -свръхсестествени.
Понеже аз гравитирам около човешкото , не успяват да ми въздействат .Намерих си , все пак, една мисъл , която споделям :" - Разбие ли се веднъж сърцето...никога не се възстановява.
Прилича повече на витраж, разбит на милион парченца, които никога няма да бъдат събрани заедно.
Можеш да ги сглобиш в едно парче , но няма да станат отново прозорец."
I loved this book from the first page to the last. A beautiful story of survival, friendship and love. My heart was twisted between wanting them to find love and staying true to their loves. The ending hit me like a ton of bricks once I realized what was happening. A truly excellent book that I am so glad I read.
