https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1066375.The_Lore_of_the_Unicorn
I give up!It's really, really dense and a bit too dry for my tastes at the moment. After a month, I'm 35% done, in the middle of Chapter 5.
An exhaustive look at the historical record.Those of you who expect fairy tales -- or even chivalric romance -- will be surprised.
The documents are actually pretty much all "natural history" -- of the era, which obviously was dominated by hearsay and travelers tales.
Also comparisions to the ki-rin and other one-horned beasts and what connections there might be.
The sales of alicorn (unicorn horn appears to be a bit much).
From India to the Mountains of the Moon in Ethiopa, to the Americas, to South Africa.Gotta admire a writer who admires the unicorn's graceful ankle bone.A bit academic.
A little dry in places, but a very interesting book on the sources of the unicorn legend. The most depressing thing, perhaps, is the realization of how long the ivory craze has been with us.
I'd read every book on unicorns available at our city library when I was little, so I had a fairly good overall sense of the variations in the mythology at a basic level, but it was great fun to read a "grown-up" study of the legend now.
A winning aspect for me was also Shepard's dedication to studying the unicorn and its importance without ever making a point of whether or not the beast itself is "real", something the "factual" children's books I used to read could have learned from.
Maybe I’m just too incompetent or maybe I’m just not as into unicorns as I thought. This book is way too dense and hardcore for a casual unicorn enthusiast. This book is more for someone who is much more passionate about unicorns than I. Also for someone who can understand what Shepard is saying.
A monumental effort to identify pretty much every reference to unicorns in the writings of naturalists, theologians, and philosophers through the 19th century, "The lore of the unicorn" is more concerned with how unicorns functioned as allegory and how the scholars of the past explained the nature and significance of the beast, than it is with identifying the origins of the legends, though the author does a good job of that as well.
I found myself more interested in the early chapters, which present the legends and beliefs about the magical properties of unicorn horns, than the later chapters, which explore the literature of unicorns and the scholarly disputes about them.
This is more of a historical fact finder book. One that really sticks closely to talking about evidence and leaves little breathing room about lore and the lighter history of legend. Its great if you're needing to know EXACTLY what evidence there is that a unicorn ever existed.
A VERY detailed history of the unicorn. I've definitely learned some things, but the author does have a way of belaboring a point. Still, worth reading if you want to know more about unicorns.
Because I had greatly enjoyed ‘The Natural History of the Unicorn’ a couple of years ago, I was both excited and nervous about ‘The Lore of the Unicorn’. Where I wanted to know more - I was worried this book might contain more of the same. It wasn’t, the titles gave it away, where the first book was about the animals that inspired the unicorn legend, the second was more about how the legend was transmitted through texts. There was wonderful snark in this book. As an academic, he is wonderfully d
The first chunk of the book is the closest to ‘The Natural History of the Unicorn’, it details the emergence of the unicorn myth and the difference between it’s forms.
The slight detour about the prevalence of poison, the fear that people in power had of it and the other anti-poison superstitions (snake tongues anyone?) was particularly fascinating.The following chunk is about the war of words that slowly lessoned the belief in the unicorn..
The final chunk looks at different possible origins for the unicorn myth and variations of it.
Loved it.
Me costó muchísimo leerlo, muy denso
Odell Shepard, who wrote this book in 1930, or at least the first edition was published in 1930, shared my discomfort with the Western motif of the unicorn hunt.
The unicorn attracted by the smell of this person came and fell asleep in her lap, whereupon the hunters either captured the unicorn for the king, or killed the unicorn for the horn, which was thought to have medicinal virtues.
Personally, like Shepard, I find myself sympathetic to the unicorn.
I was looking for a christological symbol that was not emburdered as the Philosophers Stone is with scientific overtones.
Keep in mind that it was also published in 1930 so at times it's a bit dry and academic and large chunks of chapters are made up of citing every example the author could find where the unicorn is mentioned in historical scientific studies.
The last chapter on the narwhal is again quite interesting, but even though the book is only 278 pages, it does get a bit tedious and you get the sense that it could have been a lot shorter, especially the chapters that discuss the to-ing and fro-ing of naturalists about the unicorn's physical appearance and the ability of its horn to cure poison.
An interesting history of the unicorn from the time of Ctesias's Indica - written over 2,000 years ago - to the establishment of the narwhal as the purveyor of myth.
The author does an excellent job of not biasing the narrative; and although he clearly accepts the narwhal as the primary source of unicorn lore, he is honest about many traditions that make this particular association difficult.
One gains a much broader perspective of various old ideas and leaves the book with an open mind about a beguiling and mythical creature.
Great book if you want to quickly gloss over the whole history of unicorns. Shepard gives some good insight into the origin stories of the unicorn from various parts of the world. This book has lots of footnotes in each chapter. I'd recommend looking into those for a more in-depth story! I've always been interested in how unicorns popped up in folklore, and this book is a good start for anyone like me who has a childhood interest in fairy tales and legends.
The Lore of the Unicorn is an entrancing book of high reading level difficulty, tracing the lore of the unicorn back to it's roots during the time of Ancient Rome. The book listed so many facts and sources that it was a bit difficult to understand at points, but the mythology drew me in and kept my attention for days on end during our visit to St. Louis. If you're interested in mythology, you should definitely check this book out.
Not so much a history of the unicorn as a history of the history of the unicorn, the origins of the legend, why the alicorn was believed to be proof versus poison, and that kind of thing. Dry but engaging, although sometimes Shepard lets fly some zingers of private political opinions that really have no place in the book.
An interesting review of unicorns as they appeared throughout history. The book focuses on Western ideas of unicorns but does touch on Eastern concepts too. While the book is pretty interesting overall, it does get a bit dry at points. I recommend it to anyone interested in folklore or even those curious about the medieval world and early ideas of nature.
An easy to read text, which focuses on the legend of unicorns over a wide range of time. More of a gateway book that introduces you to some of the legends; as each part could be further researched to get a more detailed story. A good place to start if this subject matter interests you.
What I really like about this book is that it's not a narration about a random legends but an investigation about the origin of those legends
A used book I own and love.
Revisión exhaustiva que compensa su espesa lectura con una valiosa recopilación de datos y estudios. Recomendable para aficionados a la mitología e investigadores curiosos.
