https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/248685.Irish_Thoroughbred

5 AMAZING STARSI LOVED THIS STORY!The Hero Travis was a very old school masculine male alpha with a strong protective instinct when it concerns the small Irish "Bonny lass" heroine, Adelia.
"Sure and it's observant you are to be noticing that--and who are you to come around grabbing innocent people and crushing their bones?...A horsewhipping is what you're deserving for scaring the life from me..." She said."You may be pint-sized, but you're packed with dynamite."Travis and Dee are two very strong individuals!
And if I had on small issues it would be with the "fade to black" love making scenes.
Despite its unabashed hokeyness (the fiery Irish redhead always spewing out insults in her native brogue, the sexy ranch owner forever lifting her forcefully to his height so he can kiss those lips shut, the sophisticated OW always swishing here and there in a cloud of French perfume), Nora Roberts' very first romance book was cute and satisfying. An old-fashioned, low angst, read that will leave you smiling.
3.25 starsThis was a typical oldie, with forced kisses and brooding hero and I have read so many of them that despite no hero POV you had to be blind to not know hero was insane about the heroine.
I liked the heroine, she was plucky, hard-working and took not shit from anyone, including the hero.
She loves her uncle and the place he works at, which the hero owns.
These two have an MOC when her uncle is taken gravely ill.
Our pouring of love comes when the H chases a running h down.
And yet, as time goes by, those arguments become infused with the undeniable attraction they have for each other and a deeper emotion begins to build.Irish Thoroughbred was actually Nora Roberts’ first romance ever published and began her long and distinguished career both with Silhouette and in main stream publishing.
And yet, the story illustrates all of the reasons that Nora Roberts is one of the best selling authors, not just of romance, of all time.
Nora Roberts started me down this road, and she remains my all time favorite author.
Nora Roberts is one of the authors that got me really into reading towards the end of elementary school and beginning of high school and her books will always hold a special place in my heart. This was one of the first I read by her and rereading it so many years later was such a fun experience! It’s a cute story and I’m always partial to the “they hate each other at first but then fall in love before they realize it” storyline!
This was the perfect book to listen to on my trip to Florida with my mom! We had a lot of fun boo ing the main characters love interest. He was extremely self confident... and on the verge of being a little violent at times. No thank you!!! We did enjoy the Irish accents used and the light horse talk. Overall I had fun!!:)
holy omfg), creepy infantalization of the heroine (like, seriously, quote: "You look like a child.
A child can’t be bundled off to bed without a goodnight kiss" and musings about how she looks like she's fifteen), and man.
And I know that the romance genre has plenty of this shit going on and in fact lauded right now (and, I mean, lots of misogyny and this strain of alpha dickery in Kristen Ashley, but at least Ashley has an entertaining voice and heroines who aren't infantalized), so I point this out but am not exactly feeling like pop culture / the romance genre right now is in great health, either.
3'5/5☆
This book was one of my first Nora Roberts book, and I nabe no idea about how to on writing a gif-less review about this, BECAUSE DAMN IT LOVED IT.
Nora Roberts used to write such amazing books before, I hate her newer books.Adelia is the perfect, ideal heroine in my eyes.
'Just perfect,' whispers Goldilocks.The hero was amazing too, I love May-Devember romances and I love the old Harley custom when we don't have the hero's POV.
THIS BOOK WAS SO JUST PERFECT OMGGGG *BURSTS INTO TEARS*What made it even more special was that it was horse-themed.
Have I ever told y'all how much I love horses?
I LOVE THEM SO MUCH.
I mean, Uncle Paddy saw them kiss once in a frenzy of happiness over Majesty having won a very important race and suddenly it was his dearest wish in life for Dee and Travis to get married.
I fail to see how Travis couldn't have "taken care of" Dee without forcing her into a marriage (he literally bullies her into marrying him, gripping her shoulders so hard that she goes "beyond physical pain" and telling her that if she cares about her uncle at all, she'll do it) she doesn't want.
A few creepy things, the hero would often compare the heroine to a teenage girl (like 15 years old) and the proceeds to kiss her senseless, literally.
I get you can feel like a fish out of water, but I think if you have a backbone, you can stand your ground a bit better.
Oh and the reason for the hero and heroine getting married, silly.
If this was the way all romances were written in the 80's - I can see why it's taking some time to shake off that reputation.
*after the re-read* Just realised this book is problematic af but I still love Adelia so much.
An oldie but goodieThe Irish Thoroughbred is Nora Robert's first book and is still a good romance to read.
The Irish Thoroughbred is set on a horse farm in Maryland.
The heroine of the book moves to the farm from Ireland to live with her only living relative, her uncle.
She meets the owner of the farm and sparks fly from their first meeting.
Dee is feisty, has a sharp tongue, and is perfect on the farm with her special connection to horses.
The story is a bit dated, but that just makes it all the better to read.
Enjoyable read!
Al finalizarla habìa pensado darle 2 estrellas ya que aunque Travis está al máximo, sentía que le faltaba "mas"...
Dee me parecía muyyyy inocente y aunque tiene su carácter no lograba entender esta ambibalencia entre sumisiòn y fortaleza...Pero buscando un poco mas sobre esta novela me encontré con la sorpresa...
ES LA PRIMERA NOVELA DE NORA ROBERTS Y ESTÁ ESCRITA EN 1981.
Y ahora comprendo por qué se siente como si le faltara un poco más a la historia.Me gustó.
Y como siempre...
el que la heroína sea irlandesa y medio pelirroja, pues me late y Travis me fascino.
Reread 2012.Reread June 2014.Reread January 2016.
Irish Thoroughbred is the very first Nora Roberts book I ever read, and I remember latching onto it because there was a teeny illustration of a horse on the cover.
Romance, in general, has changed (thank goodness!), and this was just too old skool for me.
The constant bickering between Adelia and Travis got on my nerves.
The romance genre has changed so much from the days when I poured over Harlequin Romances acquired from garage sales, which meant they were ancient before I got them, and it’s been a fun journey down memory lane.
against her will and of course he had to be the shiney knight that would save the damsel in distress from being raped.He certainly refuses to take her for serious, treats her like a child, even claiming to put her over his knee.Beside that, the story and the characters are shallow, the plot is very obvious and the wording is so cheesy I was actually wondering if Nora Roberts was secretly making fun of the reader.So, if you are a feminist and you want to rant about something, this is your go to book.
I'm sorry, I love romance and romance novels but this one was annoying.
It was really short so everything goes too fast, but the worst was the behaviour.
I know that there's always the same pattern in this kind of novel, especially in these old ones but I couldn't stand the posesiveness of Travis towards Dee nor the ugly things he would say to her.
But even worst was Dee saying that she needed that because she was in love after three days of knowing him.
Nada mejor para empezar el año y las vacaciones de verano, que una novela romántica rápida de leer. Nora Roberts escribe y cumple a cabalidad con mi intención de una lectura fácil, sencilla, romántica y entretenida.Personajes con carácter y atractivos. Engancha y se lee rapidísimo.Novela escrita en los años '80 dsto importante para entender esta relación platónica medio emo entre los protagonista, con tintes eróticos sin explicitar casi nada(menos mal) , romance algo ingenuo y apasionado. Novela rosa con sus clichés pero entretenida.
I liked the story and enjoy immersing myself in it.
Adelia hardly remembers her uncle Paddy, but he has immediately invited her to come to America and live with him.
Paddy works on a big horse farm, and he is sure he can find her a job as well.
Of course Adelia wants to work, she would not know what to do with herself otherwise.
Thanks to her Irish accent, he soon recognizes her as little Dee, coming to visit her uncle Paddy, and not a horse thief or such.
And soon Dee is Majesty’s main groom, she loves taking care of him and the other horses.
Oh goodness me how I do love a fiery quick romantic read.
Nora Roberts (or her author conglomerate of which I suspect "she" is - because no one person could put out such a vastly different and large amount of excellent books on their own) has a way of just drawing me into a story until I'm crying and laughing and loving every moment.
And of course there's the tall, handsome, gallant and oh yeah, sickeningly rich man.
Loved it.
And yeah, saving the girl from a brutal attack in a barn is a bit cliché but wtf, it totally worked!
This is a short book and by page 60 the male main character had creeped me out so badly I could not read on. Male employers that say, "I'm your employer and I control your life at work and outside of work" are not for me. No thanks, dude.
Ummm So so not good Just fine.La historia comienza bastante bien pero las últimas 50 pag se vuelven muy apresuradas algo así como si tuviera límite de páginas y necesitará terminar de desarrollar la historia. Personalmente ña parte de la ex y del matrimonio me están de más. Pudo ser mucho mejor
I absolutely love Nora Roberts and her series and trilogies. She has a unique way of writing about friends and family. This was her very first novel and like everything she has written I love it.
In any case here is my review honoring its re-release.The basic plot revolves around Adelia "Dee" Cunnane - who comes from Ireland to America to stay with her Uncle Padrick "Paddy" Cunnane - and Travis Grant - one of the wealthy horsebreeder in Maryland, USA.
However typical to what we see in romance novels now, the explicit sexual content is not shown between Dee and Travis until after they are married.
It almost makes you wonder if she wanted Dee and Travis's kids to grow up in real years so she can make a plot for their daughter in the third book.
Roberts debut och det märks så väl att det är just en Roberts. Det är så här hennes böcker ska vara. Även om man kan ha delade åsikter om män som kysser kvinnor mest för att få tyst på dem...
Slightly slow but a nice book with a lovely ending. Not one of my Nora Favourites though.
Great book! Loved the romance, drama, horses, and the storylines between the characters. A nice quick read to unwind to for sure.
