https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8296.The_First_Four_Years
Laura Ingalls Wilder intended to write a full novel on her early years married to Almanzo Wilder but she passed prior to finishing the book.
Roger Lea MacBride ("adopted" grandson of Rose, Laura's daughter) found this manuscript after posthumously rummaging through Rose's things and decided to publish this anyway.
Laura's extended family) and proceeded to publish many a book based on her family's life.
His descendants still own the rights to Laura's life and estate opposed to Laura's family.I have not read those companion books (nor do I intend to) based on that principle.
Laura's books were autobiographical.
The tone is different, harder, more grown-up, with many details that ended 'These Happy Golden Years' changed here, and not for the better.
But probably closer to the truth, too.The lack of finesse added to other books by Laura's daughter Rose is noticeably absent here.
If you just want to enjoy the fairy-tale tone and ambiance of the previous books, I beg of you to stop with 'These Happy Golden Years' and protect your innocence.
(hide spoiler)]Eleanor: I'm giving it four stars, although it's hard to give it four stars on my last Little House book, you know?Dad: Because you liked them all so much?El: Yes.Dad: Did you feel bad when it was over?El: Yes...
I wonder what's going to happen in Little House?!?!?!?"Dad: Hey, you said you had two reasons for giving it four stars, but you only gave me one.El: No. I had one reason: there are two bad things.
Can you think of any ways?Dad: Yeah, but I don't feel like discussing them with a 7 year old on a public review of a Little House book.
Having paged through the publication of Laura's annotated autobiography, Pioneer Girl, it seems that the earlier revision process really fleshed out the stories, adding a lot of description to the narrative.
And that revision didn't happen here, so this book isn't as richly written as the others.I have now reread the entire Little House series, and this final book of Laura's had a lot of tragedy in it: devastating storms, crop failures, and even a terrible fire.
Does anything ever grow on this prairie? It's one thing after another - blizzards, tornadoes, heat, prairie fires, hail. Any thing kills the crops. The most depressing installment of all. Laura seems to only take pleasure in running outside, riding horses and sometimes her daughter. Definitely NOT any kind of housework.But I think I will end up reading everything Laura Ingalls Wilder has ever written.
Money troubles are seen through the eyes of a child: the parents will always be there to take care of things.In The First Four Years, Wilder doesn’t shy away from the really hard truths of adulthood, including agonizing financial problems, devastating illness, the death of her second child, her own responsibility and guilt in starting the fire that destroys her home.
And somehow, I feel, we are given a more frank look here at her personality, even though she is the viewpoint character of all her books.
As the Introduction tells us, Laura Ingalls Wilder left a first draft to this book and it was only published after her death.
This book is about, as the title implies, the first four years of Laura and Almanzo's life together.
Almanzo asks Laura for three years - in order to prove that farming in South Dakota can be a viable way to make a living - and they drag it out for seven before finally abandoning their homestead and trying their luck in Missouri.I wouldn't recommend this for a sensitive reader or anyone under the age of 12.
Because it was published after the death of Laura and her daughter, it is not quite complete as well.
They are less like characters in this book and more like the real thing and its a little easier to see that Laura wrote from the heart and didn't try to make this an easy children's story.
Laura is more mature but sadly leaves most of the decision to Manly.The book is short and is more a series of little stories from those four years.
Immensely satisfied with the series with some obvious lowpoints surrounding the treatment of Native Americans, and my god, the songs about "darkies" were just horrific.
Also a lowpoint?
They were so massively in debt yet he keeps buying shit like a new stove.
You owe hundreds on your mortgage and wheat thresher, stop buying new stoves!
The flip between basically living off the land in Big House to relying on store bought coal and pork in the Long Winter is crazy and led very close to death and starvation.
I grew up on the Little House books and had no idea that this story of Laura and Almanzo's first years of marriage even existed. Grittier than the earlier books and sometimes quite scary--that blizzard! My edition has excellent illustrations by Garth Williams.
I loved the previous 8 books, but was always a bit bothered at how Laura's true feelings were rarely described.
Finally hearing about the boredom that Laura felt as a new mother, about how she didn't want Manly to be a farmer, and how she occasionally hated the stink of their farm stock was quite satisfying to me.
And, "Manly?" Two things about this nickname: first, have I been pronouncing his name incorrectly?
What guy wouldn't want his nickname to be 'Manly?' ;)As an adult, I now understand why these books are classics.
In many ways, I wish I could go back and live as Laura did.
My third read. A short, bitter, though optimistic ending to Laura Ingalls Wilder's Little House series.
I knew what I was getting into, so it wasn't so shocking and disappointing this time around.This book begins by re-telling the end of These Happy Golden Years, but this time before they are married, Laura tells Almanzo she doesn't want to be a farmer's wife.
And twice in the first year of marriage Laura orders things from the Montgomery Ward catalog, which just seems downright weird.
This book lets you see that the first 8 books were idealized and sanitized, which doesn't make me love them any less, but it's kind of like finding out there's no such thing as Santa.

Plus, it seems to be the first chapter of a new series rather than a continuation of the Laura we know from the previous books.The book's worst offense is that it actually begins before These Happy Golden Years ends, and rewrites history.
Had a scene like this appeared in These Happy Golden Years, I would have balked.
I think it was worth publishing because it's an interesting look at LIW's perspective on her early married years, but it's just not in line with what Little House fans might expect.
As it stands, it’s a bare-bones account of the most prominent memories of the beginning of the Wilders’ marriage.
I expect this one will be quite different in contrast.I heard a long time ago that Laura hated dwelling on negative events, and that’s why Mary’s going blind is glossed over and the birth and death of their baby brother is excluded.
Laura states what happened but doesn’t dwell on it.Imagine you’re a newlywed farmer on the frontier.
These pioneers would look at us with contempt because any one of them could kick our butts.I found the whole account gripping; it was vivid and stark at the same time.
The Little House books were the first thing I ever bought when I found out I was having a baby.
I first read them to my daughter when she was far too young to understand the words I was speaking.
When she was old enough to read them for herself, I held this one back.
All I know is that it doesn't fit with the rest of the series.
They stop working hard and start spending money they don't have, which has always been a strong theme in the series.
I wish the series had stopped before this book came out.
I wish I could un-read it.
This was apparently published posthumously and unfinished - it’s so much better than the rest of the series as an adult reader. It’s as if it didn’t have time to have all the hard bits hidden or made to sound cheerful. It’s a brutal four years of the beginning of their marriage. Farming is hard and they never catch a break. They are in debt. Their son dies. Laura accidentally burns the house down. This is by far the most real feeling of the series and feels like a great bridge into Prairie Fires.
The last book written by Laura Ingalls Wilder and published long after her death.The introduction tells us that this is a rough draft published as it was written by Laura in yellow notebooks. This is a more poignant period of Laura's life that tells of the tragedies and joys she and Almanzo faced during their first years of marriage.Reading this again as an adult gave me a much clearer picture of how difficult life was in the late 19th century and how isolated many families in the west were.
Laura's second baby was born and died within a page and when I finished the book, I had to go back and reread to make sure I had indeed read he'd died.
I know this is a fragment of a book and without any editing or depth to it, but again, we got a whole damn book about a single winter and the death of a child got...a page.
I thought Almanzo (surprisingly only referred to as Manly in this book and literally never called that elsewhere) was perhaps an upgrade from Pa and his Follies but...nah, not really.
After finishing "These Happy Golden Years" with the optimistic, happy outlook on the next stage of life, this book was terribly sad. I can see why Laura may have given up on finishing it. The only bright spot was the birth of Rose. It's still a powerful story that shows perseverance, patience, and promise.
Unlike all of the other books, I'm not shelving this under Children--this book clearly wasn't meant for kids.
To be fair, it wasn't really meant for anyone; Laura wrote it out but never published it, nor did her daughter.
Nevertheless, for fans of the series or of Laura herself, it's a fascinating chapter of life, even if it is told in a much briefer, rougher style than the rest of the Wilder books.
We're so reluctant to leave Laura behind that I think my husband and I will read her journal On the Way Home next, and then perhaps her posthumously published autobiography.
ความหวานชืนจากเลมทีผานมา เปนความหวานชืนเดียวจากหนังสือชุดนีใชมัย!!และแลวชีวิตหลังแตงงานของลอรา กกลายเปนชีวิตของนักบุกเบิกอีกครังเธอกับแอลแมนโซตองกลับไปตังตนใหม เหมือนครังทีพอกับแมของลอราดันดนมาวิธีการอาจแตกตางกันไปตามยุคสมัยแตทีแนๆ เธอยังตองลำบากเหมือนเดิม และดูจะกวาเดิมเสียดวยเปนอีกเลมทีอานแลวเหนือยจริงๆ คะทีแยกวานันคือ อยูๆ คาแรกเตอรของตัวละครกดูจะเปลียนๆอยูๆ ลอรากเกิดไมอยากใหแอลแมนโซเปนชาวนา อยากไปอยูในเมืองซึงแปลกมาก เพราะตลอดมา ลอราแสดงออกเสมอวารักอิสระชอบตนไม ชอบชวยพอทำงานกลางแจงเกลียดการพ
ความหวานชื่นจากเล่มที่ผ่านมา เป็นความหวานชื่นเดียวจากหนังสือชุดนี้ใช่มั๊ย!!และแล้วชีวิตหลังแต่งงานของลอร่า ก็กลายเป็นชีวิตของนักบุกเบิกอีกครั้งเธอกับแอลแมนโซต้องกลับไปตั้งต้นใหม่ เหมือนครั้งที่พ่อกับแม่ของลอร่าดั้นด้นมาวิธีการอาจแตกต่างกันไปตามยุคสมัยแต่ที่แน่ๆ เธอยังต้องลำบากเหมือนเดิม และดูจะกว่าเดิมเสียด้วยเป็นอีกเล่มที่อ่านแล้วเหนื่อยจริงๆ ค่ะที่แย่กว่านั้นคือ อยู่ๆ คาแรกเตอร์ของตัวละครก็ดูจะเปลี่ยนๆอยู่ๆ ลอร่าก็เกิดไม่อยากให้แอลแมนโซเป็นชาวนา อยากไปอยู่ในเมืองซึ่งแปลกมาก เพราะตลอดมา ลอร่าแสดงออกเสมอว่ารักอิสระชอบต้นไม้ ชอบช่วยพ่อทำงานกลางแจ้งเกลียดการพบปะกับคนแปลกหน้าในเมืองแต่แล้วเปิดเล่มนี้มา เธอก็มีความคิดกลับตาลปัตรอ่านแล้วมันก็จะเฟลๆ ในตัวละครหน่อยๆ
Whenever I think about how much I didn't care for this book compared to the rest of the series, I have to remind myself that it's unedited and unfinished.
Laura died before she finished this book and her daughter Rose had it published as was when it was found.
This book covers her first several years of marriage to Almanzo (nicknamed Manly in the book).
Even if Laura was alive to finish the book, I'm not sure I would have enjoyed it much better.
It's too strange reading about her and Almanzo without appearances from the others.
Final thoughts on the series: I'm so glad that I didn't grow up during this time.
Readers need to keep in mind that what this book is is Laura's first time writing down the events as they happened through her adult perspective.
Do you think he was really so calm and cool and collected when reporting that a friend managed to have their lives spared from an Indian-attack (using the book's term) that would have resulted in their deaths?All of the books have a lot of difficult things in them.
For a bonus, re-read Farmer Boy, and notice how much time she spends describing the Wilder family's food.
it starts out very hopefully, with laura & almanzo marrying and moving into a new house with its fancy pantry and silverware.
i really liked it when laura talks about being sick while she's pregnant and reading to escape how crappy she feels.and then a lot of terrible things happen in short succession and the book ends abruptly.
the terrible things happen in such short succession that i was almost desensitized to it.
i'm looking forward to reading "pioneer girl" now to see what happens to laura and almanzo after the events of this book.
but when it came to this boxed set of Little House books, my mom adamantly stated they were mine.I did love and read these as a kid, but I don't remember loving them the most.
The last in the series, The First Four Years, was published posthumously (both deaths of Laura and her daughter, Rose) and it is clear that Rose's editorial skills and experience as a writer had made quite the difference in the previous Little House books.
Most of all, as an adult who now has the Internet at her disposal, I had the most fun googling during this Little House experience.
After all, it's a draft of a story that Laura "had penciled...in three orange-covered school tablets." MacBride speculates that "after Almanzo died she lost interest in revising and completing it for publication." It seems a worthy guess.
There is some overlap with the ending of These Happy Golden Years, to orient the reader.
And yet, I really do think These Happy Golden Years was crafted to be an end to the series, with its final tone.
Probably both.Each chapter is one year in the attempt that Laura and Almanzo make at farming.
But after reading the first eight great books in the Little House series with our three-year-old Sigourney, there wasn't a chance in Hades that we weren't going to finish the job.The First Four Years is short but not sweet.
But these tough times were always nested in a familial sweetness that made the stories must-reads.
Friend-of-the-family Roger Lea MacBride speculates that, following Almanzo's death, Laura became disinterested in revising and completing the work for final publication.
But an incomplete work like The First Four Years should be judged on its own merits.
It was suggested to me that this last Little House book perhaps be left out of the read-aloud-to-my-boys lineup, so I revisited it on my own.
And I think that was a wise suggestion--best to just leave the series on the happy ending of These Happy Golden Years.
You realize immediately you're in for something very different with the jarring opening scenes, in which events from These Happy Golden Years are repeated but with changes in the details.
I suppose this book is more realistic and less sugar-coated...but for the sake of childhood nostalgia and fun reading aloud, I prefer the warm and happy books to this one.
