https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/660272.Miss_Silver_Comes_to_Stay
It is one I enjoy between reads that are more demanding, and Miss Silver’s stories are always refreshing to me.In this, the 16th outing, Miss Silver goes to stay for a while with a friend she hasn’t seen for many years.
In this village, many years ago when they were 18, two close friends from childhood Catherine and Rietta meet James Theodulph Lessiter at a dance.
They will talk whether they have anything to say or not.
And yes – there was more than one crime to deal with.I thoroughly enjoyed this read, and it was easy to get lost in the story.
In today's mystery novel culture they are wonderful road trips down a small village street where you can be assured of hearing no profanity (surely there must be SOME, but it certainly doesn't stand out in my memory), of reading a description of murder couched in only the most oblique of phrases, and of knowing something lurking in the past will raise its ugly head to cause trouble in the present.To be quite frank, the Miss Maud Silver novels are written to a specific formula.
This book is average.
Miss Silver's main talent exists in getting people to trust her enough to tell he what's going on, which I suppose is a talent, but it puts her well below the Miss Marples of the world.
I grew extremely weary of reading "Miss Silver coughed." Miss Silver is always coughing--sometimes in a meaningful way, and sometimes for no reason.
I guess she knits, too...I see my review has been mainly negative to this point, so let me stress that for all the above faults, I never wanted to give up on the book, and some of the characters are likable.
I probably won't read more Wentworth any time soon.
An absolutely charming cozy mystery. The small English village setting and characters were perfectly done.
The coziest of who-dunits!
With a cast of characters both likable, unlikable to downright hateful this little English house Mystery sets it's alongside the likes of Agatha Christie, Georgette Heyer and other.
There's a light romance, and plenty of busybody villagers who know how to eavesdrop.
I'm not doing a synopsis since its a mystery were the least said the better.
If you can guess who the murderer is, you're much more intuitive than I am.
PG-G a very mild PG, I'm only marking it such since the murder was rather violent, but we don't ever get a close up of it.
3 1/2 stars So you think you've got this one all figured out early in the story... HAH!
Miss Silver Comes to Stay (Miss Silver #16), Patricia Wentworth
This Miss Silver books brings forward an old and favorite pupil of Miss Silver's, Randal March, who is now a chief constable. Randal is over 40. (One can only assume that Miss Silver was 20ish when she taught him.) He has fallen in love and his beloved is one of the suspects.
New to me series that I'd like to go back and start at the beginning. Characters were interesting and I love the knitting!Brit-tripping Nottinghamshire
I particularly enjoy how the relationship between Maud Silver and the Scotland Yard man, Frank Abbot continues to develop.Recently I viewed new presentations of a couple of Miss Marple stories on PBS Masterpiece Mystery and do think there are some similarities between Miss Marple and Miss Silver.
It has been many years since I read the Agatha Christie mysteries, but I am finding that I really like Miss Silver, as a personality, better, and I think she is much more clever and subtle and not so doddering.
I wonder why PBS has not done these mysteries, and if they did, who would they get to play Miss Maud Silver.
While her character failed to hold me, I largely enjoyed Wentworth's portraits of the main protagonists, and the writing was perfectly 'of its time', in the 'cosy mystery' style.
The theme of thwarted and lost love is one I am drawn to, so I was ready to settle to the story.
Sadly, details failed to be sufficiently explored and I found my attention wandering about half way through.
I know that Patricia Wentworth has a loyal following, so I must conclude that some of her other stories are more engaging than 'Miss Silver Comes to Stay'.
Instead of tracking down the beginning of the series as I meant to, I read #16 because I'm at my mother's and she had it on the shelf.
I doubt it makes too much difference, although I am curious now about this prior mystery that involved Randal Marsh and his sisters, students of Miss Silver's from her governess days.
Miss Silver always seems to be drawn into these mysteries through various old friends or their distant relatives.
And she always seems to stay with old connections so the title could be used for any of these mysteries.
A pleasant read, innocuous.
Un bon roman policier "à l'ancienne".
This has a good character set-up, though the resolution of the murder simply involves someone listening in on a conversation that makes clear the murderer.
Patricia Wentworth schafft es immer wieder, mich auf's Glatteis zu führen! Bis Seite 300 von 339 war ich zu 100% sicher zu wissen, wer der Mörder ist und dann kam doch alles ganz anders!
3.5 starsWhen Miss Maud Silver comes to stay with an old friend, she doesn't count on being called on in a professional capacity to solve the murder of James Lassiter.
25 years ago, James Lassiter wanted to marry Rietta Cray, despite her cousin Catherine Lee's attempts to attach him.
Alas, James went away penniless, Catherine married Edward Welby and Rietta was left to raise her sister's son Carr Robertson.
Now James Lassiter has returned a wealthy man, determined to sell the estate in tact but it seems as if some valuable items are missing.
Just when I think I've really delved into the Golden Age of mystery writing, that I've read a wide array of authors, and met the most important characters in the genre; I realize something very important, I'm only getting started.
It wasn't my favorite book, I normally don't like parodies, but it pushed me in the direction of finally getting to meet the real Miss Silver for myself.Now that I've met her, I'm feeling a little let down.
I'm not sure if it's the author's writing style, the character herself, or maybe just this book.
I'm not really sure who Miss Silver is as a character.
This is the sixteenth book in Patricia Wentworth’s popular Miss Silver detective series originally published in 1948.
It is no different in the village of Melling where Miss Silver arrives to stay with an old friend.The return of James Lessiter to claim the house he has just inherited is the instigation for the murderous events that follow.
Her bosom friend from her adolescence, Catherine Welby, has earlier returned to the village a childless widow and persuaded James’ mother Mildred to let her live in the gatehouse of Melling House.
My Silver is a sort of old lady detective with sleuthing abilities that all the characters marvel at given her career as a governess.I didn't guess the murderer right off so that's something.I didn't dislike it terribly - it just wasn't very intriguing for me and thus probably won't be a series that I'll read again.I went and looked at the author profile and that gave me a better understanding of the book.
Miss Silver, a retired governess-turned private detective, is sometimes compared to Jane Marple, the elderly detective created by Agatha Christie.
Miss Silver comes to visit an old school friend in a small village: “a village green complete with pond and ducks; the church with its old graveyard; the Vicarage; the village inn…; the entrance pillars and lodge of a big house; a row of cottages, their gardens still bright with sunflowers, phlox and Michaelmas daisies.” The squire has recently returned to the big house but has already given many people reason to dislike and fear him.
Her anger was gone.
She could enjoy Catherine.
A picture of herself practicing soft expressions at a looking-glass assuaged her a good deal.”
Apparently a rather lengthy series of Miss Silver mysteries have been written, but this was my first.
In a mystery series, one should really feel a connection to the sleuth (like how I love Barbara Havers) or their foibles should be only slightly irritating (like Holmes or Poirot).
Miss Silver is bland.
She knits like a fiend and coughs with more expression than Meryl Streep emotes, but other than that...
The mystery was so so.
Not Christie level by any means, but much better than many other authors.
I think what I like about this series is that it's a lot easier to figure out who's going to be clobbered than who the killer is.
The murder victims are so nasty, that it's not much of a care when they do get done in.
The one thing that I have found annoying so far is that when Miss Silver disapproves of what someone is saying or doing, she coughs.
I mean, she must cough like a TB victim, she coughs so much.
It gets to the point where i just skip over the cough to get to the clues.
A good, cosy mystery with well-written characters and a plot that moves at a steady pace.
Not a great read. The writing was bland. The mystery was lacking. The suspects were eliminated as suspects as you read so the suspense was lacking. And Miss Silver didn't do much but talk to a few people and gain their confidence. A decent DCI should have been able to do the same and not need her to solve the case (but this mystery lies on the whole premise that the Chief Constable was completely baffled and only lead aright because of Miss Silver). So, not that great and no need to read more by Patricia Wentworth.
Miss Silver is a quiet, slightly prudish, brilliant elderly detective whose greatest asset is her ordinariness, which allows her to extract amazing information from people involved in the crimes she investigates. She often has a knitting project in her hands, which adds to her charm. I recommend the Miss Silver books to detective fiction fans and non-fans alike. They give a great snapshot of the post-Edwardian era in England.
I found this book delightful. This review does a better job of comparing our spinster detective, Miss Silver, to Miss Marple, than I could manage. So I link it.https://niranjana.wordpress.com/2010/...Btw I am glad I won't have to write a review to enter the date I finished the book. As to when I started it--before I set it and three others aside to finish the library book for book discussion. Who keeps track?
I didn't figure out "who did it" - but then, I don't read many mysteries.I enjoyed the references to Miss Silver knitting. The author telling the reader repeatedly that "Miss Silver coughed" is annoying and in my opinion, doesn't add anything to the narrative. Other than that, I like the prose style. I like the setting (an English village), but not any of the characters particularly.I don't plan to read any more of Patricia Wentworth's novels.
A very entertaining, light murder mystery by a British author who is new to me. I have found another series to track down, but I fear many of these Miss Silver books may be out of print. Miss Silver, a retired governess with a deep understanding of human nature and foibles, is an amateur detective who knits while she considers the case. I like her!
Another good Golden Age of Mystery cozy 3.5 stars. , IBook-$1.99 Early Bird Books
The kind of village where people are up in each others' business, there is no privacy, there are sexual hi jinks going on, and the nicest faces can hide a murderous heart.Mrs. Voysey, the old friend is funny, a Margaret Rutherford type who never stops talking and making comments on everyone's behavior.The romantic leads are not callow youths, but a mature couple who are intelligent, kind, and good.
She is pretty, but also kind, with a sort of hardheaded practicality and solid plans for her future.(view spoiler)[I could not figure out who killed the unlikable victims and I only when Miss Silver was doing her wrap up did I look back and see how it all fit together.
