https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28484.Into_the_Labyrinth
Review is for entire series.Re-readThe Deathgate Cycle is one of my favorite series ever.
Everything about it - all 7 books - are just...
high fantasy perfection.
It's one of few series that really go into HOW the magic of the world works.
And the primary protagonist, Haplo, is one of my favorites ever.
Maybe my very favorite.
- And the plot is perfect and perfectly executed.
Everything about this series is just...
Unless to say that I'd like another 7 books.
This book was just as good today as the first time I read way back in like...
It's a shame one of the darkest, most exciting entries in the series has some of the ugliest, brightest and silliest cover art.This book benefits from further examinations of the history of the Patryn/Sartan conflict as well as the nature of Patryn magic (which is actually a sort of quantum probability manipulation -- something I did not recognize when I read these as a boy). Also the conflict between the Lazars and the truly living beings is wonderfully disturbing.
We start to leave the mensch worlds behind (except for too much time spent with the elves, humans, and dwarves of Pryan...not really a favorite group of characters of mine) and focus on Haplo, Alfred, and the newly-introduced Marit as they work to thwart the dragon-snakes.
He's become one of my favorite fictional characters after re-reading these books.
For one, I've always wondered why Alfred was able to bring Hugh back to life without any of the issues discussed in Fire Sea (he's not a lazar with an echoing voice, or a regular corpse who's mindless).
The second is more of a wish than an issue, but I thought that the lazar on Abarrach were defeated too easily.
You know, whenever I'm lucky enough to find a reasonably literate person who has read some fantasy novels, I'm always surprised by the fact that - as far as I can recall - none of them have read The Death Gate Cycle.
Granted, I had some holdover nostalgia from the Dragonlance Chronicles for Weis and Hickman, and so I probably had more cause to read them than most, but, even solely on their own merits, these are really excellent books.
The real mastery, though, is in the novels' 5 distinct - geographically, sociologically, politically, ethnically - worlds.
Let me be clear, I almost gave up on it a couple times..
This one has officially revitalized my hope in this series and I stare down the final book with needed anticipation.The way that story flowed, kept me entirely on my toes the whole time and addressed some much needed appearances of old characters that felt left in the dirt.
The way Haplo himself has transitioned also keeps me enthralled, I feel as though he's gone from a child, to finally adopting his responsibility and blooming into an adult.
A new main character is introduced (rather late in the series, I thought): Marit, Haplo's former lover and now his would-be assassin.
I'm glad Bane is gone; I never liked that kid.This series is much more character-driven than action-driven, and in this book we see the main characters, Haplo and Alfred, come to terms with who they are.
I loved seeing Haplo finally let his guard down and embrace Alfred as a friend, and I also loved seeing Alfred quit being so afraid of his own power.Marit is an interesting character--it's too bad she's coming into the story so late.
Ce tome ! rempli d'action, de révélations et d'avancement dans l'histoire générale c'était vraiment génial. On reprend les même persos mais cette fois on sent que la tension monte, que tous les problèmes commencent à aller vers leur résolution. Rien que d'avoir Haplo et Alfred se retrouver ça fait mon bonheur. J'ai bien aimé l'alternance des chapitres vers la fin avec deux histoires qui ont une belle montée en suspense. On voit bien l'évolution des personnages par rapport au début de l'histoire et ça c'est très intéressant et satisfaisant en tant que lectrice. J'ai hâte de lire la suite !
De manera coral, la historia se divide en 2 partes. En la que el señor del Nexo busca la séptima puerta y su paralele en la que Haplo y compañía que aumenta poco a poco por distintas causas llegan a un destino jugoso para otros.EL mejor a falta de uno. Con un personaje que se hace llamar Bond, James Bond. Que es un viejo entrañable e siniestro. Una parte bastante extensa que me recuerdo al manga “Ataques de titanes”. Acabando con trama abierta.
Penúltimo libro de esta saga, que va mejorando a medida que avanzas. Te mantiene en vilo durante toda la lectura, y por fin te responde algunas de las preguntas del inicio. Por fin conocemos el temido laberinto. Tenemos saltos de un mundo a otro, narrado con bastante precisión que permite seguir el hilo en todo momento. En este libro se aprecia más claramente la evolución de los personajes. Por ahora el mejor libro de toda la saga
Prestado por: Sergio
And no, Haplo's reasons for Xar's behavior (that he knows Sang-drax is evil but is pretending he is controlling him??) make no sense.
It shouldn't take Sang-drax doing anything to "convince" the various murder machines to kill Patryn there, for goshsakes.FURTHERmore, how on earth would Vasu and his people have heard of Xar?
Not even Haplo, who was born within twenty years or so of the Final Gate, seems to know anything about Xar before meeting him.
And nobody anywhere seems to have heard of Vasu's city, including Haplo and Xar. Sang-drax just knows about it because it's convenient that way?Last furthermore, Sang-drax's grand master plan to seal the Final Gate is f***ing stupid.
Ik heb weer erg genoten van deel 6 in de serie.
Hugh draagt een zware last met zich mee en Alfred moet zijn ware zelf onder ogen zien.
Het verhaal vind zich vooral plaats in Pyran en het Labyrint.
De stukken in het Labyrint vond ik het beste, je leert meer over het dodelijke doolhof, de Patrynen en hoe Haplo is verandert door zijn avonturen.
Op Pyran volg je vooral de personages uit het tweede boek en hoewel ik het constante ruziemaken tussen de rassen niet super irritant vond, blijven de personages erg in die modus hangen.
They are the last people on their world, yet the romantic pairings are all weirdly between elves and humans which works from a dramatic story sense but has no practical value as--the reader is told emphatically--these liaisons cannot result in children (but Sartan and Patryn can?
Then, they discover a way to communicate with another city which is merrily thriving and they are told to let the Tytens in.
And how long have they had their robots working correctly, because a big deal in the series is made when the machine on Arianus turns on, and after that Pryan's suns start to transmit light to other worlds.
Vengono risolti i destini di alcuni personaggi che erano rimasti in sospeso addirittura dal secondo volume.Vengono strette nuove alleanze, alcuni divengono consapevoli del proprio potere, si allacciano definitivamente amicizie, e vecchi accordi cadono, forse per sempre.Il terzo libro invece ("Mare di fuoco"), pur dando una scossa "dark" alla saga, è IMHO un poco fuori dal contesto.
Gli autori hanno creato un mondo complesso senza mai perdersi per strada, esponendo ottimamente non solo la geografia dei quattro mondi, ma anche un background storico solido e credibile.Secondo me, come realizzazione di un mondo, siamo ai livelli di Tolkien.Sconsigliato a chi non apprezza il fantasy.
The first four books of this series each introduced a new world for the main characters to explore.
The reader knows where the story has to go, we know which characters have to meet up to team up, but the story doesn't skip over the little details to get us there.
Even though the main plot twists have been revealed to the reader, all of the individual characters still have to discover them too.
And so we have to plod through a dozen or so chapters with our eyes set way down the road with the main guy, Haplo, waiting for us in the Labyrinth.
Into the Labyrinth, the sixth of seven books set in the vast and richly imagined Death Gate Universe, is a romantic and heroic tale that spans four worlds in an age-old battle to control the sundered realms of air, water, fire, and stone...
One of the undead tells the lord about the Seventh Gate, the magical chamber used by the Sartan to sunder the world.
Xar sends a Patryn assassin to kill Haplo and bring back his corpse.
The lord plans to use his necromancy to bring Haplo back to life and turn him into a mindless slave who will reveal the location of the Gate.
I’ve laughed out loud a few times too, which often had to do with Zifnab/dragon interaction or the dog (seriously, he has a chapter… can’t be helped).Interestingly, Marit has already joined the story.
Usually, Patryns spend their life, escaping from this prison and dying in the process.Xar was the first to escape, and the only one to return out of his own free will, to help his people.
That's what Haplo has to do, along with Marit, though at this stage they're far from friends.We finally learn more about the Patryns still stuck in this horrible, magical prison, and we follow these unfortunate souls, who know they have to return to the worst possible place, because, well, of course, because the fate of the world(s) is at stake.
Se trata de una colección de libros en la que tiene cabida la reflexión sobre grandes temas pero que se sustenta, sobre todo, en unos personajes carismáticos, un universo rico y complejo y un ritmo narrativo adictivo que deja espacio suficiente a los detalles.En mi opinión, esta serie llega al listón de joya del género fantástico (con permiso de Sapkowski) ya que, a pesar de apoyarse en muchos de los estereotipos tradicionales, crea un nuevo espacio totalmente genuino.

Each of the four worlds have been explored (one each over the first 4 books), and set-up is complete for resolution over the final 2 books.
Into the Labyrinth has the most world-hopping thus far in the series, but unsurprisingly given the title it is our first major exposure to the nightmarish Labyrinth the earlier books hinted at.Into the Labyrinth is probably the most action-heavy book in the series.
But unfortunately Weis and Hickman throw much of what we have already learned about to the wind in bringing things to a head.
There are just way too many contradictions of what we learned earlier in the series.
There is nothing much I can say that I haven't said already about this series: it's awesome and it just keeps getting better!There are new and old characters, new and old locations, everything is coming together, the pieces of the puzzle are slowly unraveling and the plot is thickening. This has been one of the most satisfying fantasy novels I have ever read. If you still haven't started reading this, you should. I can't wait for the last one!
What a cliffhanger!!!There is just so much that happens in each volume that by the end of the book you are amazed by how far you've come and these are so wonderfully written. It's amazing seeing how the characters change and evolve through he series, and seeing how my feelings for them have changed as well. A character thought at the beginning to be a hero has turned into a maniacal villain, and yet I understand how he came to this place. But I just gotta say, I love Zifnab.
I feel that the later books in this series suffer a little bit. I really enjoyed the hand of chaos but going forward with Into the Labyrinth I feel that the authors could have better outlined, paced, and planned so that the story felt more cohesive. Again this wasn't a bad read and the plot largely moved pretty fast but it wasn't very compelling either.
This series still relies far too heavily on all the characters miscommunicating, not communicating, and being too self-involved to draw obvious conclusions. But things are looking up for our intrepid heroes, and I think there's only one more novel anyway. I'll see you all at the end of this underwhelming road.
The biggest majority of the book I didn't like a lot. But then the last few chapters were totally amazing. And after the last couple of pages I thought about the book I realised that everything fits togehter and that it was a perfect climax.The Book gets a 9,5/10
Another solid book. One more to go!
I was expecting much, much more labyrinth and less of the insufferable Pryan.
I think my favorite of the series so far. New characters mixed in with the core ones. Cliff hanger at the end to set up the final installment in the series.
Everything is moving toward a climax. Devouring these books now.
Although the pace picks up in the latter half of Labyrinth, there is no disguising the languishing pace of the first half and the absence of any noteworthy scenes.
Labyrinth is setting the stage for the final conflict, drawing together a fellowship, with the usual traitor within, and actually creates some worthy tension as a result.
Distracting from that is Fizban, a plot mechanic so absurd that it immediately dissolves any engagement with the story.
The final stage is worth fighting to though and at that point the lengthy build-up does pay dividends and ensures that readers will be yearning for resolution in the final chapter to follow.
