https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/247998.Satori_In_Paris
Jack Kerouac goes on a quest to find his alleged Breton ancestor De Keroac in post- WW2 France. Resulting in a trippy, otherwordly report of the writer's journey in Paris, Brest and Paris again!Unreasonnably funny :^)Matching Soundtrack :Willie the Pimp - Frank Zappa
Though on finishing this book, when and how this experience took place remains to be seen.The story concerns Kerouac wandering around France trying (and largely failing) to learn something of his ancestry, drinking too much and showing off his knowledge of French dialects.
More than anything there doesn't really feel like any point to the book, it mostly reads like a disconnected chain of thoughts, as though he was trying to recapture his former style but failing to execute it - without his reputation from previous works it's hard to believe that this would ever have been published.Would only recommend as a point of interest for any beat fans looking for examples of Kerouac in decline.

The title should be "Alcohol in Paris", as Kerouac most certainly talks more about his drinks rather than "a moment of enlightment". Kerouac at his usual, messing around, drinking, travelling from place to place like a madman.
He Went to France and Saw Lady's Underpants (But Lost His Luggage)Jack Kerouac starring in On the Road In Paris, a short novel/memoir hybrid that was originally published in three installments in Evergreen Review.
(emphasis Kerouac's)If you go into this book with the knowledge that it's not supposed to be a superhuman scroll poet-prophecying the zeitgeist but rather a late night conversation between you (silent, taking notes, pouring more beer, running to the store for cognac) and your favorite drunk uncle (laughing, rambling) about the time he went to France for some quick family research but ended up fucking even that up, well, you'll enjoy this just fine.
I mostly rolled my eyes at this man, Jack Kerouac.
He drinks too much, he enlightens very little for a book about a supposed epiphany.
One day I also want to travel to my ancestor's homeland in search of my roots (it will be a little easier since I know what town to go to and who to ask for).
Yes I read this whole book and I am sure that Jack Kerouac sees better days (I still plan to read Dharma Bums which I have heard great things about), but sometimes he might just be a misinterpreted Tucker Max.
Nice little book with not that much satori in it, unless you're counting the cognacs that go along. Kerouac fancy himself a bit of blue blood, Breton descent, in search of his ancestry (not really, more boasting to his beatnik friends) but so lightly written, and funny, so all happy, including myself for reading it.
Sparkling, lyrical and Beat-iful writing: Jack Kerouac down (and not quite out) with the Parisian hepcats. File under Jeanology...
Late Kerouac, fueled by alcohol and loneliness.
An unintentional record of the artist in decline.
A lonely alcholic barely keeps it together
Αυτό είναι ίσως από τα λιγότερο γνωστά και καλά βιβλία του Τζακ Κέρουακ, πάντως αποφάσισα να αρχίσω με αυτό, απλά και μόνο να πάρω μια ιδέα για την γραφή και τις σκέψεις του συγγραφέα.
Στο συγκεκριμένο βιβλίο βλέπουμε το ταξίδι του Κέρουακ στο Παρίσι, προς αναζήτηση των ριζών του παλιού Βρετονικού ονόματός του, το οποίο ταξίδι διήρκεσε όλες κι όλες δέκα μέρες, μέσα στις οποίες γεύτηκε διάφορες εμπειρίες, μια από τις οποίες υπήρξε η αιτία για το ξαφνικό ξύπνημα, την ξαφνική επιφοίτηση, το σατόρι του στο Παρίσι.
Συμπερασματικά, οι εντυπώσεις σίγουρα είναι θετικές, η γραφή του Κέρουακ, όπως και η ιστορία, μου άρεσε, αλλά δεν είναι ούτε αριστούργημα, ούτε εξαιρετικό, για να του βάλω μεγαλύτερο βαθμό, πάντως είναι καλό και αξίζει να διαβαστεί.
I last read this book in my late teens.
I loved Satori in Paris first time around, pretty much like I loved all of Kerouac's writing.
However, this time the book feels as if it is one written by a writer at the end of his greatness.
There are hints of Kerouac's often thrilling prose but that is largely obscured by the overwhelming feeling (for me anyway) that this is a man at the end of the road.
Still, I enjoyed reading the book again and it brought a smile to my face and resurfaced good memories of my teenage desire to travel and vagabond and be a beat hip poet ; )
You know, I'm not actually sure what Kerouac's satori was. The book is basically him wandering around France, trying (mostly unsuccessfully) to learn something about his genealogy in between visits to various bars. But it's a quick read and Kerouac's conversational style is engaging, if sometimes unintelligible (at least now, 60 years after it was written). He also has a knack for befriending some pretty random and entertaining people.
Neklidná kniha psaná svižným tempem, ve které sám Jaen-Luis Lebris de Kerouac pátrá v Bretani po kolébce svých předků. Nezapomíná přitom nadávat, chlastat a ztrácet kufry. A současně mu každý z těch malých příběhů může být "náhlým probuzením".
It's Jack Kerouac.
Прекрасный 50-летней почти давности блог о кратком французском приключении - вздорный, взбалмошный, подробный, временами смешной и совершенно обаятельный.
At this point in his life - all his friends no longer the post-Columbia troupe of merry Beat poets - living in Florida with his mother, Kerouac is not living up to the image people had, and still have, of him as this rambling giggly Bodhisattva.
That said Kerouac's references of Buddhism along with Catholicism in 'A Satori...' are beautiful, like curdled layers of laundry.
That being said the 'Satori', or 'sudden illumination', or 'kick in the eye' Kerouac describes is rather anticlimactic.
You certainly get the feeling that Kerouac hasn't learned much and that he'll continue drinking and rambling until he dies.
I never read Kerouac or Ginsberg.
Of course they were a bunch of drunks but why did no-one tell me that each of them was a kind of genius too?I love this little book.
I feel as though I'm being given lessons in how to live by a dead man.
If you speak French and love history and classical literature read this.
It will leave you lost and confused.
But I'm only giving him 4* because he leaves me curiously unsatisfied.
And anyway he'd only have given himself 4*'s for this one I believe.
If you do read this edition..
Per la prima volta libero di usare il proprio nome, senza nascondersi dietro lo pseudonimo Duluoz (derivante anch'esso da un nome di origine bretone Daoulas), Kerouac intraprende un viaggio, prima a Parigi e poi in Bretagna, alla ricerca delle proprie origini.
Entrambi i luoghi non sono visti con occhi da turista ma con quelli di uno schiavo dell'alcol, sempre alla ricerca di un nuovo bar dove potersi nascondere.
Privo di prospettive e messaggio, come se non avesse null'altro da fare (o da dire), quasi alla fine della sua carriera (e della vita) con lo spirito e il corpo ormai mutati dall'alcol, emerge con sempre più frequenza l'irascibilità dovuta all'eccessivo cognac, fortunatamente permangono i barlumi della sua sensibilità, quella di un umile osservatore della vita quale egli era.
Тяжелая для чтения книга, алкогольное марево ощущается даже через строки. "Бродяги дхармы", дававшие какую-то надежду, ориентир, давно позади, превратились в плоский символ. Сатори - только слова, похмельный образ вечно "возбужденного мозга", который не понимает, что это уже агония. Читать интересно (хоть и грустно) только в качестве автобиографических жизнеописаний, или даже скорее как эпикриз завершающей стадии смертельной болезни. Ожидаемо, фирменный стиль Керуака деградирует вместе с ним самим, бессвязные образы, угар, упадок. Узнаваем, все еще местами хорош, но, но, но...Трагедия не до конца раскрывшегося, рано угасшего гения, запечатленная на страницах "Сатори в Париже".
Bir önceki Kerouac kitabı Deniz Benim Kadeşim ile ne kadar mutlu olmuştum oysaki. Şimdiyse yolculuk hikayesi olduğunu iddia eden, bir şey arayan ama aradığı şeyin peşinde gerekenleri yapmaktan bile aciz, mütemadiyen içen, hiçbir yere bağlanmayan bilgi karmaşasını felsefi derinlik diye sunan, tren-uçak kaçıran ve bunlardan hikaye yaratmaya çalışan, Yolda'ya giden yolda bir miktar hevesimi kaçıran ve kurgu karakterler yaratmakta daha başarılı olduğuna hükmetmek üzere olduğum bir Kerouac kitabı okudum.
Easy reading by Kerouac's standards but gives the distinct impression it was bashed out without much interest on his part. It was towards the end of his life though, I believe, so perhaps it's an achievement that he managed to get it written at all. I'd just finished reading the biography Memory Babe when I started this, which may account for the gloomy despondence Satori in Paris left me with. It's the most amusing of his books that I've read, however.
I read the book while I was travelling exactly through the places where Kerouac went in the book (Brittany, Paris). When you know something about the region and you've been at the places and you know that here was Kerouac as well, it kind of let's you get more excited for the book. "Satori in Paris" is a great spiritual experience, not just for Kerouac but for the reader as well.
Aos 44 anos de idade, Jack Kerouac viaja a Paris e à Bretanha em busca de suas raízes de família. Lança mão de seu francês da infância em busca de documentos, registros oficiais e no contato com o submundo da França.Kerouac sendo Kerouac, em um breve, movimentado e divertido diário de viagens: física, turística e de autodescoberta.
"Като пораснах, станах пиянде. Защо? Защото обичам екстаза на съзнанието. Аз съм Пълен Нещастник. Но обичам любовта.---- Adieu, мосю Реймон Байе - казвам му.Сатори-таксиджията от първа страница.И когато Господ каже: "Аз живях", ще сме забравили за какво толкова се се прощавали."
Late Kerouac, not anywhere near as good as On the Road, Dharma Bums etc but still of enough interest over 100 pages. Lots of drinking but not much satori.
J`ai lu le version melange d`anglais et francais, mais je ne peux pas comprendre l`idee priciple de ce livre. Peut-etre c`est mieux d`essayer les autres romains de Jack Kerouac
J`ai lu le version melange d`anglais et francais, mais je ne peux pas comprendre l`idee priciple de ce livre. Peut-etre c`est mieux d`essayer les autres romains de Jack Kerouac
Crazy zany reading. Not sad like many of his other books.
Kerouac pátrá po původu svého francouzského jména, od rodné Kanady po Francii.
