https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/334731.The_Homecoming
And strangely neither does her husband who had sensed something was amiss before that episode and wanted to leave and return home to their suburban American life.Ruth, the wife, discloses she was a body model, a glamour model, or maybe that was a euphemism, and by the end of the play, she's left her husband to accept their offer to be woman of the house, sexual favours for all and a little housework thrown in, and to prostitute herself to bring in money for the household.
The Homecoming, Harold PinterThe Homecoming is a two-act play written in 1964 by Nobel laureate Harold Pinter and it was first published in 1965. Characters: Max, Sam, Lenny, Joey, Ruth, Teddyتاریخ نخستین خوانش: هفدهم آوریل سال 2002 میلادیعنوان: بازگشت به خانه - نمایشنامه؛ اثر: هارولد پینتر؛ مترجم: فتاح محمدی؛ مشخصات نشر: زنجان، هزاره سوم، 1381، در 112 ص.؛ شابک: 9649311734، چاپ سوم: بهار 1390ا. شربیانی
‎The Homecoming‬‬, Harold PinterThe Homecoming is a two-act play written in 1964 by Nobel laureate Harold Pinter and it was first published in 1965. Characters: Max, Sam, Lenny, Joey, Ruth, Teddyتاریخ نخستین خوانش: هفدهم آوریل سال 2002 میلادیعنوان: ب‍ازگ‍ش‍ت‌ ب‍ه‌ خ‍ان‍ه‌ - نمایشنامه؛ اثر: ه‍ارول‍د پ‍ی‍ن‍ت‍ر؛ مت‍رج‍م: ف‍ت‍اح‌ م‍ح‍م‍دی‌؛ مشخصات نشر: زن‍ج‍ان‌، ه‍زاره‌ س‍وم‌‏‫، 1381، در ‏‫112 ص.‬؛ شابک: 9649311734، چاپ سوم: بهار 1390ا. شربیانی
با این حال طبیعتِ همراه با احساسات جنسی مرتبط با شخصیت های داستان، بازدید همسر و نزدیک شدن آشکارش با پسران دیگر، و رها کردن خانواده اش تا بتواند به عنوان یک روسپی زندگی اش را ادامه دهد، این ها چیزی نیستند که عادی و معمولی باشد.بازگشت به خانه یکی از آثار پینتر است که در قالبِ نوشتاری پینتر به نام کمدی مخاطره قرار می گیرد.
I reread this after reading The Birthday Party & The Room: Two Plays just the other day and it's a natural progression for both Pinter and the reader.
This was the first Pinter I read, but not the last, and I consider him one of my favorite playwrights, so something must've gone right in the course, whatever it was called and whoever the professor was.
Incredibly disturbing...Without painting broad strokes of flagrant violence, obscene language, or the like, Pinter still manages to create an environment of unparalleled menace.
The facts are stated, quite clearly; it's simply unthinkable to the viewer that what's going on is unchallenged.Unsurprisingly, critics lambasted "The Homecoming" for various reasons -- my favorite being its "amorality" and "thematic ambiguity." I mean, how can a play be so riveting yet still make you ask, "what was the 'point' of that story?" Pinter's a unique talent who will certainly be missed.
یک نمایشنامه منسجم و دوست داشتنی از مرد دوست داشتنی تآتر جهان. مثل بقیه کارهای پینتر دیالوگها پر بود از سوءتفاهمها و دیالوگهای بلندی که به مونولوگ شبیه میشد، دیالوگهای بیهودهای که توضیحات اضافه انسانها بود (چیزی که در دنیای مدرن بین افراد اتفاق میوفته).اصلیترین موردی که در این نمایشنامه به چشم میخوره بحث مادر-معشوقه هستش. زن به مثابه اوبژه در دنیای مدرن و خانواده هستهای. حتی این اوبژه شدگی زن در بین قشر روشنفکر و آکادمیک (که نمایندهش تدی هستش و دیگر همکارانش که قرار مشتریهای ماشین-بدن روت شوند)
مثل بقیه کارهای پینتر دیالوگ‌ها پر بود از سوءتفاهم‌ها و دیالوگ‌های بلندی که به مونولوگ شبیه می‌شد، دیالوگ‌های بیهوده‌ای که توضیحات اضافه انسان‌ها بود (چیزی که در دنیای مدرن بین افراد اتفاق میوفته).‏اصلی‌ترین موردی که در این نمایش‌نامه به چشم می‌خوره بحث مادر-معشوقه هستش.
وقتی بی‌حضور زن درمورد اقامتش بحث می‌شه ، درمورد شغلش برای خرجی خود را درآوردن (روسپی‌گری) و حتی ایجاد سلطه جنسی نسبت به او (حتی تدی هم نمیگه اون خودش باید تصمیم بگیره صرفا میگه من فکر نمیکنم اون این طوری بخواد، یا می‌گه: اون دوست داره با من برگرده، ما سه تا پسر داریم!) بی‌حضور فیزیکی (سخن راندن از بدن بی‌حضور بدن ممکن) کاملن نمادهای مرد-پدر سالارانه‌ی دنیای مدرن را موشکافی می‌کند و حتی پس از این‌که زن حضور پیدا می‌کنه بدن اوبژه شده خودش رو در قبال مسئله مالی (و نه لذت) به دست مبارزان سلطه جنسی قرار می‌ده.
بذاريد اعتراف كنم، بعد از خوندن اين نمايشنامه اين به ذهنم اومد:"who the ... gave you the noble prize, you pervert ... of the ....., we are not at all interested in you sexual fantasies"انقدر حرص خوردم ميخواستم سر كلاس نررررم، امروز اما قطعا يكي از نمايشنامه هاي مورد علاقمه. در مقابل پينتر نبايد مقاومت نشون داد، فقط كافيه يكم بهش وقت بديد.
Quite a few books you read/movies and plays you watched in your youth tend to disappoint when you are of a "ripe/mature" age - but this play, which I saw on stage in London at age eighteen, had not lost any of its riveting qualities when I read it tonight, thirty-six years later - within the space of less than two hours. In less than a hundred pages Pinter manages to turn the grotesque into the plausible by making an eerily antisocial milieu come to life. "Chapeau"!
Yes this might never happen and yes the play is very twisted.
Well it did make me kind of sick and embarrassed but that was because we were force to read it in class and there were some parts in witch i wish we would have stop reading, but I enjoyed it.
Amazingly enough this is one of the plays i best understood.
I think it was just to go against the whole class but it just plain has it's own beauty and art in it -its just not that easy to find it.
Sick. Just Sick. I don't care if there's a deeper meaning to this book. To make up a story so immensely wrong is unbelievable.Great job, Harold. You just proved yourself one of the most twisted-in-the-head people on Earth. Oh, sorry my mistake. In the afterlife. Hopefully this strange imagination of yours didnt go with you... rest in peace.
Absurdity at its finest. I do not know whether to be appalled or sad or mad or grief-stricken by this play. Truly Pinteresque!
what did i just read ???
Man, this play. I only have three words: what the hell?
ولكنها ستلعب إضافة الى ذلك دور العاهرة ايضاً بالنسبة إلى هؤلاء الرجال، الذين ستبدو «أميركيتها» شيئاً بالغ الأهمية بالنسبة إليهم...
ذلك أن كل واحد من الشخصيات - باستثناء تيدي - يرى في روث، المرأة، في مختلف تجلياتها وأدوارها، وفي شكل أكثر تحديداً، تلك التي تنقص هذا البيت منذ زمن بعيد، وصولاً إلى فكرة إقامة علاقة معها، إنما من دون أن يكون في هذه الفكرة أي شعور بأية إساءة إلى تيدي.
إذاً، في هذا المعنى إذا كانت العودة إلى الدار تعني بالنسبة إلى تيدي أولاً، عودة إلى لندن، ثم عودة إلى أميركا، فإنها - أي العودة - تعني بالنسبة إلى روث، عودتها إلى ذاتها، وفي شكل أكثر تحديداً إلى أنوثة، ربما كان العيش العائلي - الأكاديمي، في أميركا أفقدها إياها.
This is a dark, deeply ambiguous, and funny play.
Being older and more experienced, I feel much better about the play then I did when I first encountered it years ago.I am hesitant to say what the play is about, because even after seeing a very good production, and reading the text closely, there are a myriad of possibilities about how to interpret the script, and the nuances therein.
In fact, all of the roles have wonderful possibilities in performance.However, the greatest power in the play lies not in what is said, but rather in what is NOT said.
This wasn't as good as  The Birthday Party, and it's much more cryptic, but Pinter really can rip the mask off of human interaction. This one's much more realistic than The Birthday Party; it depicts a dysfunctional London family, whose oldest son, who's been in America for six years with his wife (who he eloped with immediately before leaving London). No spoilers, but the strange ending depicts the same kind of isolation as that of The Birthday Party. Pinter is definitely becoming a favorite.
I didn't like this play. It's seedy and mean, full of horrible characters treating each other badly. That doesn't mean that it's not a good play, maybe even a great one, because that was exactly what Pinter was going for, in his so called comedy menace period. There are power plays and power shifts. There are threats and responses, as well as sparse pointed dialogue, increasingly absurd behaviour and a nasty spin in the tail.
barefaced audacity
What the actual eff.I'm curious about what my professor is going to say about this because wtf.
But he still has a key to the house and so lets himself in for the evening and settles in upstairs with Ruth for the night.And then hilarity ensues.No, not really.I read a quote by a critic about how in this particular play, the pauses are of all importance, as well as the position of chairs and the symbolism for a demolished archway.
But within moments of meeting the family, Teddy's wife Ruth, is being man-handled by the brothers and called a "stinking pox-ridden slut" by the father.
One of my favourite plays, a great work, even for Pinter.
But the imagery created and the constant power struggles between the main characters make for an amazing read.
Once again, i can't stress enough how much better it is to see a play performed, there is, however, a great film adaptation of this which does a good job of getting the story line across.
The best thing about this play is its use of the unspoken word, the constant use of 'PAUSE' really does tell you more about the characters and their relationships than anything they say ever could.
There are a few authors (more often playwrites than novelists) from a certain school that seem to be able to get away with seemingly doing the same thing again and again, and Pinter is one of those to me.
His form seems to be "amass a group of insane characters together with one straight man, and then let them play out their various madnesses." In this play, he does that, but as the play went on, it turned into a disturbing criticism of the roles men expect women to play in the world and women's strange acceptance of them.
Brilliant."Very few people in the world understand this play, and Harold Pinter refuses to let anyone in on his secret." Dr. Magidson told my class.
"When I directed this play, a couple people threw-up."The setting of this play is simple: a grown-up, educated, man and wife visits his dad and brothers in the house they grew up in.
But right off the bat, the reader realizes that even the simple plot is mixed with this absurd "Waiting For Godot" conversation.A highlight of the absurdity:-The dad treats the sons like animals-When the dad sees the wife, he shouts for her to leave exclaiming, "There hasn't been a whore in this house since your mother died!" -The brothers try to "have their way with his wife" while the man watches.You have to read this one.
The Homecoming is an entertaining play and I enjoyed reading it.
While the story is slow at times the interaction and struggle between the characters makes up for it.
I like how Pinter criticized how men just assume women will play certain roles in the world and how women puzzlingly go along with them.
The final seen was quite powerful with Ruth in a position of power over all of the male characters.
Albeit vulgar at times, Pinter’s use of crude references and profanity make the play seem much more realistic.
I would recommend reading it.
Beware!
Homecoming is about this guy coming home with his new wife who his other family members knows nothing about, even the marriage, but the essence lies in its dialogues that confuse you in the first reading.
The dialogue is both hilarious and ridiculous at the same time.
Joey, the youngest in the family reminds me of Joey from the american sitcom FRIENDS.
The line where Joey says, 'I was able to appreciate it in another level' and then throws this level out of the window when he 'gets his sight back' comes in the background while reading the play.
this is the fourth pinter play that i have read.
and, from my reading experience, i can tell you that he can create some beautifully disturbing universe in the relationships between the characters.
this play is no exception to that.
the pace got slightly slackened at times but it keeps its momentum intact in excellent and fissured conversations between the characters.
the main soul of this play is its characters.
but also, this play reached its peak in the last scene when ruth came down and the following scenes (did i give away a tiny bit of a spoiler?) happened.
it was brilliant, the ending.
absolutely brilliant!
What did I just read?I didn't like this. I didn't understand the characters' motivations. I didn't understand what was going on. It just made me feel bad.Maybe if I saw it. Maybe I read the meaning behind the words wrong. But it was creepy and weird.I feel like I should be able to tell whether the father molested his sons or not. That should be obvious by the end, right? Or what does it say about me that it's this ambivalent part of the play?And that's just it - I didn't really get it.
After reading this book you start to think differently than you used to do. The book is written by great author Harold Pinter, who has numerous published books. The Homecoming, one of the masterpieces by Harold Pinter, where he shows the power of the female character and the use of beauty in men's society. The play takes place in one room with returning sun and his wife from US back home to England where he has brothers and dad.
This is one of my favorite plays, it's SO,OOOO good! It takes a couple of reads (and in my case a script analysis class) to understand all the meanings and subtexts and such but once you get it it's crazy good! I actually enjoyed it even when I didn't understand it to be honest. There are a lot of WTF moments, such a brilliant story!
راستش پینتر هرگز نمایشنامهنویس دلچسبی برای من نبوده. هر کار میکنم با خشونت، رعشهواری و رعب بیدلیلش ارتباط نمیگیرم. انسان باسواد و نویسندهی بزرگیه، اما فرم و محتواش اون ضرورت هنری لازم رو به من انتقال نمیده. بکت مثلا، وقتی ابزورد مینویسه یک به یک المانهای نوشتهش اقلا همدیگه رو توجیه میکنه، اما پینتر یه تئاترزدگی و کاتارسیس معکوسی داره که میبرتم بع سمتی که خوشم نیاد از نوشتههاش.
راستش پینتر هرگز نمایشنامه‌نویس دلچسبی برای من نبوده. هر کار می‌کنم با خشونت، رعشه‌واری و رعب بی‌دلیلش ارتباط نمی‌گیرم‌. انسان باسواد و نویسنده‌ی بزرگیه، اما فرم و محتواش اون ضرورت هنری لازم رو به من انتقال نمی‌ده. بکت مثلا، وقتی ابزورد می‌نویسه یک به یک المان‌های نوشته‌ش اقلا همدیگه رو توجیه می‌کنه، اما پینتر یه تئاترزدگی و کاتارسیس‌ معکوسی داره که می‌برتم بع سمتی که خوشم نیاد از نوشته‌هاش.
