https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/953788.Sirius
A professor of philosophy by day, I'm guessing that his conception of the Übermensch probably started off at the Nietzsche end; but his science-fiction, which is the only thing that people now remember him for, also contains elements vaguely reminding you of the Son of Krypton.Most of Stapledon's books explore the Superman theme in one form or another.
It's unfortunately impossible to imagine what a Superman would be like, since we are only human; this is the insoluble problem at the heart of Odd John.
But suppose, instead, that human scientists managed to produce an Überhund, a dog with human-like intelligence.
Nature or nature? Which is it that makes us who we are?This book absolutely tore at my heart strings. I was prolonging my finishing the book, as I felt the ending was inevitable, but it didn't hurt any less. I felt so much sadness and wonder at the character of Sirius, the "super sheep dog", imbued not only with human intellect, but also the human frailties of jealousy, love, and questions of the spirit.Nothing I write here can express how deeply this book affected me.
It's going to be lonely being me.What do we mean when we talk about community?It's a word that always seems to be prefaced with something else - a location, an interest, a profession.
With fervor he insisted that the most valuable social relationships were those between minds as different from one another as possible yet capable of mutual sympathy.A product of biological engineering, Sirius is a dog with the intellect of a human, an interloper between species without a true home in either.
Along the way he witnesses (and inevitably participates in) cycles of manipulation and abuse that occur between different communities, from families to countries and species.
My - heart - and - brain - just - broke
Oh man...I'm either a sentimental animal-lover at heart or a preternaturally genius mind trapped in the lumpen, inefficient body of a mere animal (I jest, I jest) but this book really did move me in a way that not a lot of genre fiction has done.
Sirius the dog, however, "born with the mind of a man" as the back of my edition somewhat luridly states, is a freak of science that I fell in love with.
I must also say that the book made consider the oceans of dreck that make up the "talking animal" sub-genre of children's film in a very different way.
Sometimes joyful, often searing; through the eyes of his unique protagonist Stapledon takes a scalpel to humanity, and the skill of his dissection is reason enough to recommend this book.I'd also recommend 'Sirius' to anyone interested in writing sentient, communicative animals while respecting their underlying biology.Yes, the main character is a bioengineered, talking dog with human-level intelligence, the only one of his kind.
This short book is a parable of the destruction of an individual spirit by society, and a terrible indictment of humanity's faults."Why did you make only one of me?
A few years back I made a concerted effort to fill in some of the glaring 'gaps' in my SF reading by reading some of the renowned authors and classics of the field that I had hitherto not read.
I did manage to fill in many such gaps but one that remained until now was Olaf Stapledon.
It's good to finally rectify that even if not with the most obvious choice.
Perhaps I should go with one of his more widely recognised classics next, such as Star Maker or Last and First Men?
The whole book is then a sort of struggle between the animals' instincts and it's higher reasoning and logical nature.
It works well as a good metaphor for the instinctive nature of man constantly wrestling with the reasoning nature of man.
The book itself is a good critique on human nature from an "outsider" that can speak to us.
Overall I gave it a perfect 5 because towards the end of the book you come away feeling like you have lived alongside the dog Sirius.
I also gave it 5 stars for it's scathing outsider critique of humanity.
The book is made all the more remarkable when it is realised that these observations on humanity are observed through the eyes of the dog Sirius who has his level of intelligence raised to that of a human being.Stapledon is at his best when he is operating outside of the box and nowhere is that more true than in this tale of a super-intelligent dog's odyssey for spiritual understanding and acceptance both in regards to his conflicted human/canine nature and in the eyes of his human companions.Sirius is a study of the self and that self's exploration of reality and his contemplations of what, if anything, lay beyond the immediate impressions of this reality.
This is a story about a genetically altered sheep dog with human intelligence who tries to figure out what his purpose in life is in a human world. Can he achieve his mission of finding purpose and love without unleashing his wolf-mood that comes naturally to him? Read on and find out.This was a pretty good and sad story that I found on feedbooks. If you like stories about dogs, definitely check it out for yourself.
Olaf Stapledon, is undoubtedly best known for his amazing novels "Star Maker" and "Last and First Men", but if that is all you have read from him then you have missed out on his writings which are in a more traditional style.
The story is simply on a much smaller scale, and so would not in and of itself be a noteworthy event in books like "Last and First Men" or "Star Maker".
However, this book should not be forgotten nor should Stapledon's "Odd John", because though they are told in a more traditional manner, they still are uniquely Stapledon, and as such they are both worth reading.
The setting of this classic is mostly North Wales and Cambridge (with a diversion to the East End of London) and therefore we learn a lot about shepherding (but not too much) and how dogs work with sheep.
We also have the comparison of the 'wild' of the country life compared to the constricted town life with their prissy poofed-up dogs whose lovely natural smell is overwritten with cloying perfumes, according to Sirius.
Sirius, of course, is a super-intelligent dog who gives mankind a view of mankind from an outsider's perspective.
I enjoyed Sirius' encounter with a minister as he works out his theological thinking.
He is a classical Other used to explore the human (and canine) world and an endearing one at that.While the novel falls sometimes into the pit many SF/fantasy text do of using the character as a straightforward, even simple, vehicle for the author's investigation into morality etc., Sirius interested me as a reader due to his conflicted nature.
In the end the story was worth reading and had a heart and a mind: a good combination for any novel and especially great for a SF classic.
Si pudiera describir el libro en una sola imagen sería: Es una historia de ciencia ficción, y está buena.
Está padre ver como las personas reaccionarían ante algo así, aunque el libro tiene unos cuantos detalles inverosímiles en general creo que la visión de una sociedad al ver a un pinshi perro que habla y canta (o si canta y según el libro canta como los mismísimos ángeles pinshi tenor chingón o algo) pues sería la reacción que casi todos esperamos, sociedad temerosa de algo que no logra entender.
Está bueno, me gusto.
I had set myself a task of working my way through the stack of books that I have been meaning to read for sometime.
I resented work and sleep as it prevented me from reading.I will not go to much into the actual book itself as I don't like spoilers.
Except at the end of the book, this story could have just as easily been set in the hear and now, which considering it was written over 60 years ago is not bad going.The way in which he uses Sirius and the supporting cast to explore how we define humanity, love, and religion (the soul), is really well planned out.
Existential dogmuch too smart to be happyyou need hands for that.
This was a magical and thoroughly marvelous tale of a scientifically 'altered' canine named Sirius. The relationship between Sirius and his owner is heart wrenching and extremely genuine in its telling, and the trials and tribulations of the pair are devastating. In the end, however, the reader is left with a sense of sweet, sweet love between 'species'.I highly recommend this book, and others by Stapledon, to any reader.
Picked it up because it's supposedly one of the best novels written about a non-human protagonist.Certainly some worthwhile conversations within the book, what is humanity, the nature of man and beast, the idea of souls and how one acquires one.Rather predictable ending, but touching nonetheless.Sirius is certainly a great character to be familiar with, and is indeed one of the more creative characters I've read in a while. Translated in Dog:Woof woof.Bark.*low growl*Woof!
I didn't really plan to read another Stapledon title, but I came across Sirius in a second-hand store for 5 euros, and both the cover and the subject appealed to me, so I took my chances.(...)I have to admit I was charmed by the fact Stapledon chose to stress the corporeal nature of the dog, and writes about a bodily intelligence - not some detached soullike mind.
Like the monster, Sirius feels lonely in the world of men.
Like the monster, Sirius feels unacknowledged.
Stapledon es sin duda y falta de leer Juan Raro, uno de mis autores favoritos. Sirio sin llegar al nivel de especulación filosófica de Hacedor de Estrellas (Para mi superior), se queda muy cerca. Por lo contrario, la menor especulación hace que Sirio sea una novela mucho más divertida y llevadera. En definitiva, un libro que me ha encantado y que guardaré un mi memoria toda mi vida junto a los personajes de Sirio y Plaxy.
"In certain moods he would retire to a favourite point of vantage on the moor and spend hours singing to himself."Captures the sense of wistful tragedy running through this strange, moving little story.
Written nine years earlier than SIRIUS, Olaf Stapledon’s ODD JOHN concerned the growth and education of a boy whose intelligence far outstripped the rest of his species.
SIRIUS covers the same ground, except this time, the subject is a super-intelligent Welsh sheep dog.Stapledon was a philosopher, and his aim here was to explore questions of what it means to be human.
But the book lacks Well’s explosive sense of adventure, and the seriousness of its philosophical excursions only serve to emphasise the story’s essential silliness.
It’s tough to go highbrow when your protagonist is a talking dog.
Very original and beautiful, but at the same time a very keen observation of humans, through the eyes of a strangely relatable dog.
This is a really interesting book, following a dog (Sirius) who has been created by a scientist to possess human empathy, emotions and intelligence.
We follow Sirius through his dramatic life and his struggles with religion, his soul and his place in a society where his entire race is a domestic convenience for humans.
Stapledon goes into such depth and has real insight into what it would feel like to be such a lone outsider, an alien in this society, honestly it wouldn't surprise me if he had actually owned a talking dog.
To me, this book represents the science-fiction genre at its best.
The story uses a "what if" scenario to help teach us about ourselves and the world around us - and also succeeds at being entertaining and emotionally moving.
Stapledon was an extremely intelligent writer with a fantastic vocabulary which helped keep me engaged and interested throughout every page.
The book is very rich in content, addressing deep philosophical and religious questions.
It offers an honest and thorough analysis of humanity from "the outside," similar to Mary Shelley's Frankenstein.
I enjoyed reading this book more than any other book I've read in the last 2 years.
The book accomplishes this without preaching - one gets a sense that the author has been careful not to trample upon the narrative for the sake of hammering home a point.To go into greater detail, the central issue is Sirius' "otherness." His mood is at some times that of a pet dog, subservient to humans and humanity, then a savage wolf resenting his human oppressors, then a human trying to relate to others in a human way, and more than anything, a combination of all three aspects, in which state he cannot fit into any of society's niches.
Dogs can't understand his human behaviours and humans can't understand his sense of smell and 'animal musical habits' which are explained as being far more than mere noise - it all carries layered meaning, I would say a blend of human understanding using dog abilities, but that is not correct, more just that he is a different species to both and so he cannot assume one or the other.As he is the only one of his kind he gets lonely and frequently battles between his 'wolf' self and his Sirius self, particularly when you see his relationship with Plaxy where she is also struggling to define herself having been brought up closely with Sirius.
Vídeoreseña "Why did you make only one of me? It's going to be lonely being me"Sirius is a genetically engineered dog that has been endowed with human intelligence by his maker, Thomas Trelone. Sirius’s story comes really close to that of Frankenstein’s monster, as he tells his many tribulations while trying to achieve a human-like life. Both characters share the same troubled mentality as they gradually find out that they don’t fit either as a human or as a member of their own species. Stapled
Sirius’s story comes really close to that of Frankenstein’s monster, as he tells his many tribulations while trying to achieve a human-like life.
Both characters share the same troubled mentality as they gradually find out that they don’t fit either as a human or as a member of their own species.
Don’t let the premise of a talking dog fool you into thinking this is a Disney-like story— while the main character is technically a talking animal, Stapledon does not overlook their own biology and impulses as such.
Ultimately, ‘Sirius’ is a moving story that tries to answer the question of what it really means to be human.

Pero recordé Ciudad de Simak y hojeándolo, para recordarlo, leí que decía que eran dos libros los que tenían buena fama sobre el tema de los perros y la CF, Ciudad y Sirio.
Entonces, armado de paciencia y anticipando una lectura casi decimonónica fue que empecé a leer Sirio.
En general se lee bastante bien y no se le notan mucho los años, que son bastantes.
Me sorprendió que Stapledon se animara a tratar los temas del bestialismo y el incesto, y que lo hiciera con naturalidad, en una época que la CF era bastante pacata.En fin, que vale la pena leerlo.
