https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5256.Old_New_York
Lately I have been reading Edith Wharton and Henry James in an interspersed fashion.
.Wharton's novellas, published in 1924, are also laid out historically, covering the 1840s, 1850s, 1860s and 1870s.
After having read the ambivalent reaction of the James family regarding the war, in this read I was paying attention to the reaction of the characters in general about those who did or did not participate in the fight.
1901.The last one, New Year's Day, or the 1870s, is very much à la Wharton in the development of the main female character.
In Henry James first letter to Edith Wharton, beginning what would be a long friendship, he advised her to write about what she was most familiar with, New York. That would set her on the course of writing what would come to define her literary legacy, her three classic novels of New York society, The House of Mirth, The Age of Innocence, and The Custom of the Country. The four novellas in this collection also follow this theme, and they were written when Wharton was at the height of her profession.4.5 stars
Reading Wharton allows me to imagine myself as a member of the elite class, to picture myself dressing for dinner, attending balls, and touring Europe, but the mere mention of Bridget, the poor woman in charge of Charlotte Lovell’s destitute children, brings me back down to Earth, to the “Old New York” of my family’s history, to my own childhood neighborhood of Irish, German, and Italian immigrants, to mothers who worked in factories to supplement their husband’s meagre incomes, to the anxiety leading up to the landlord’s monthly visit to collect the rent, and to dull summer evenings when hard-working people sat on their stoops with their little pails of beer while the children played in the street.
I love her writing style, her insights, her understanding of the world of upper-crust New York (a world I can only ever get a glimpse of through the eyes of others), and her even deeper understanding of the human heart.
Perhaps growing up in Old New York, a privileged daughter of a very wealthy man, Edith Wharton was accustomed to others looking at her life and believing it perfect and blessed.
Edith Wharton was born into the world of wealthy "Old New York" society and her key to success as an author may have been writing about what she knew.
Her gift for details gives us the believable and lovable one-of-a-kind characters which populate all of her works -- people whose lives, perhaps unbeknownst to themselves, are out of step with the accepted norms of "Society".
These four stories, representing New York Society during four different decades of the 19th century, each feature a character of this type.
I read this more than a month ago and my memory isn't that good with names and details but I can say that what I did like about this book was how she could put a really good story into a short story.
Meaning each story in the book could have been a book but she was able to condense it with just the right essential details that it was like you got a whole book's worth into this nice short story.
She wrote fantastic novels, exquisite short stories, and now I've experienced her novellas.
Henry's stories.Wharton's ability to tell such complete stories in as few pages as she did always blows my mind.
Even in her short stories she manages to write whole characters, complete with flaws and imperfections; in these novellas she's able to do the same and then even a little bit more.
This is another anthology of novellas dedicated to the themes familiar to all Wharton readers - stifling constraints of Gilded Age New York society, utter dependence of women, etc.
"New Year's Day" is a story of a woman engaged in adultery whose reasons for being unfaithful are not quite what you expect them to be.
Unlike another anthology I recently read ("Roman Fever and Other Stories") this book is very uneven.
"The Old Maid" and "New Year's Day" are the best, "False Dawn" a little underwhelming, but still good, and "Spark" is a definite disappointment (too unresolved and muddled).
These four novellas, from 1924, are historical fiction, set in the 1840s, 50s, 60s and 70s. They are okay, interesting, but I didn't really find them gripping. It is also worth saying that if they had been set in the 20th century I would have a distinct knowledge of the difference between the 40s, 50s, 60s and 70s, but in the 1800s it is not so easy. Edith Wharton lived from 1862 to 1937.
To my utter delight I discovered a collection of four slim hard-cover editions of Edith Wharton's "Old New York" novellas.
Each novella is a stand-alone gem in its own right, but truly shine when read in the order she intended--"False Dawn", "The Old Maid", "The Spark", and "New Year's Day".
Each novella is set in a different decade of the 19th century, i.e., the 40s, 50s, 60s, and 70s.I am ever so glad to have these books on my Edith Wharton shelf now!
I always love Wharton's view of New York society and False Dawn is a wonderful novella about the wealthy families of the mid-19th century New York and their relationship with money (old and new) and art - acquiring it, appreciating it, and using it to demonstrate their standing in society. Does Edith Wharton really need my review? She's brilliant. Read her.
Old New York is my first experience reading Edith Wharton but it won’t be my last. These four short novellas are set in New York society, each giving the reader a glimpse of the conventions and conduct of “polite society” during the last half of the 19th century (not always polite and frequently unkind). Even in these relatively short works, Whaton’s characters are people we come to know and understand and the writing is nuanced. Each story comes to a very satisfying conclusion. I’m putting Wharton’s House of Mirth and Ethan Frome on my “must read” list.
Spicuiri din recenzia finala care se gaseste pe blogul meu ..........................................Pentru a fi un scriitor care merită să rămână în istoria literaturii și numele căruia să se potrivească ca o mănușă unui premiu prestigios precum Pulitzer, atunci trebuie să fii capabil să strângi în paginile cărților tale mici bucăți de timp și de oameni astfel încât cititorii tăi să simtă că trăiesc efectiv alături de poveștile pe care le oferi. Wharton nu doar că face acest lucru, însă talentu
Wharton nu doar că face acest lucru, însă talentul ei o ajută să exprime într-un mod sarcastic și cu o asprime (după cum bine observa Irving Howe) neîndurătoare, tarele unei societăți în schimbare care refuză să se desprindă de vechile obiceiuri, insistând să copieze și să continue legi morale nescrise care nu se mai pot aplica în prezentul pe care par că-l detestă prin simplul fapt că distrugerea barierelor sociale și dintre sexe le arată unor familii înstărite că prezentul e al celor activi, educați și doritori de succes.„New Yorkul de altădată al anilor cincizeci era dominat de câteva familii, care dădeau tonul cu un aer de naturalețe și opulență.
I don't often read short stories and this collection I read more or less by accident.
I find them less satisfactory than novels because of their brevity, although this collection does have a unifying theme.
It's all about old New York, its people and social norms that are slow to change.Without wanting to give away the plot of any of the four stories in the collection, we are in familiar Wharton territory: these are primarily society ladies - and for Wharton women were very much in the foreground - who find themselves in conflict with their circle.
I read this as a teenager. Like all Wharton works, I highly recommend it to any feminist fascinated by the Victorian age.
I've read Ethan Frome, which is very different from other Wharton works as it's set in a rural area in New England while most of the others are in New York society like this one.Summary from back cover: "These tales are vintage Wharton, dealing boldly with such themes as infidelity, illegitimacy, jealousy, the class system, and the condition of women in society."False Dawn: A young man is sent on a tour of Europe to collect art to bolster his family's reputation; when he returns his father disowns him for choosing poorly.
The False Dawn deals with a father and son relationship.
The story deals with the old maid, really an unwed mother, who has to turn to her cousin to take care of her little girl.
There is something so compelling and poignant in the portrayal of Charlotte Lovell, the unwed mother and the old maid, that had the other stories beat.
I also liked The False Dawn and New Years Day. The only turkey in the collection, for me, was The Spark, which I've forgotten already.
It seems some of the societal pressures of marriage and morality could still exist in modern New York society, especially that of the richer classes, which are always a bit more conservative.I did enjoy some of the stories more than others.
I understand why Wharton used the younger narrator to frame the story of New Year's Day, but it felt much more like a contrivance.
The first two stories of the book did not have a character narrating (although one pops up at the end of False Dawn he does not intrude at all before that), which seems to be the reason they were stronger.
The narrator in New Year's Day was the troubling bit of the story.
Old New York consists of four novellas: False Dawn, The Old Maid, The Spark, New Year's Day. Wharton employs both irony and empathy to describe upper class New York society of the 1800's.
In "False Dawn" a son defies his father who has sent him to buy paintings by "The Masters." Instead he is steered towards lesser know artists by critics like John Ruskin.
One of my favorite quotes from “New Year’s Day" seems to sum up Wharton's view of Old New York Society, "It was typical of my mother to be always employed in benevolent actions while she uttered uncharitable words".
This is Wharton's view of a New York in which old Dutch money is slowly giving way to the new masters of commerce, told in stories of successive decades.
It is a world in which appearance is important in ways that can scarcely matter now: being tubercular is better than being an unwed mother, prostitution is conceivable as a way of keeping up the illusion of family wealth.
The last one, about the woman who preserves her husband's illusions through prostitution, did seem fresh and biting.
Besides their elegant style and their insider's sharp gaze into uppercrust American society during the 1800s, these stories are, simply, ripping yarns.
The characters strongly drawn: some extremely sympathetic, some unpleasant by our lights (and by Wharton's.) The plots that bring them together are as gripping and fascinating as a bit of juicy society gossip.
They used to meet at the Fifth Avenue Hotel,'said my mother, as if the scene of the offense added to the guilt of the couple whose past she was revealing.
(It was typical of my mother to be always employed in benevolent actions while she uttered uncharitable words.)"
Not my favorite Wharton but still some wonderful moments here.
OLD NEW YORK is an unconnected set of four novellas.
"False Dawn" began promisingly, with a wispy son overpowered by a physically intimidating father with a big personality, but once Ruskin made a cameo(!) and the name-dropping of famous painters began, my interest waned.
"The Spark" also suffered from name-dropping and bizarre cameos (in this case Walt Whitman).
On the other hand I very much enjoyed "The Old Maid" and "New Year's Day." Especially NYD.
On reading Wharton again I was just amazed at what a flawless writer she is.
Her descriptions and dialogue flow like water, and her numerous narratives are inevitably seamlessly woven together.
Wharton's hypersensivity to social cues obviously comes from growing up in the rarefied world of the Old New York aristocracy, which she again gently pillories in these four stories.
She comes at them like an anthropologist (even using the language of "totems" and "fetishes") and conveys both the absurdity of their world and also the abstruse skills necessary to thrive in it.
I'm trying to both broaden my horizons in pleasure reading, and catch up on some classics, so when I saw this book on Jody's list, it caught my eye. Now I remember why Edith Wharton is still being read almost 100 years after her death. Writing about people and times I don't really have any interest in, these stories nevertheless managed to draw me in immediately and keep me connected until the end. Very enjoyable.
I will only comment on The Old Maid here. Set in the morals&manners of 1840s NY society, this novelette or short story is, to me, Wharton at her best. She does not write here about despair or melancholy -- this is far more, a powerful evocation of utter hopelessness, written with brevity, sensitivity and complete disinterest. Rarely have I seen the subject so deftly handled.
am tras de ea 2 luni. mi s-a parut simpatica prima povestire, chiar daca a fost foarte previzibila, insa mai departe m-am plictisit teribil, e peste puterile mele sa mai citesc ultimele 90 pagini. Poate m-am obisnuit prea mult cu stilul alert al literaturii contemporane. Nu e rea. Just not my type.
"Life has a way of overgrowing its achievements as well as its ruins." (p 228)
It is Edith Wharton writing about Old New York, so of course this is great.
Lately, I’ve begun a romance with Edith Wharton. After rereading The House of Mirth for a class, I became enamored with Wharton’s writing style in which every sentence has several nuances, each description is carefully tailored. When I stumbled upon  Old New York  at Barnes & Noble, I had to have more, to slake my thirst for Edith Wharton’s beautiful prose.The CollectionOld New York is a collection of four short stories, each one taking place in a different decade of the 19th century. In a c
at Barnes & Noble, I had to have more, to slake my thirst for Edith Wharton’s beautiful prose.The CollectionOld New York is a collection of four short stories, each one taking place in a different decade of the 19th century.
Of the four stories in this volume, I liked the ambiguousness of this one the best.OverallIf you’re an Edith Wharton fan, or like the “novel of manners” style, I highly recommend Old New York.
è difficile spiegarlo, ma ad un certo punto durante la lettura ho avuto una strana sensazione: è com
