https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1902241.The_Adoration_of_Jenna_Fox
When I added The Unbecoming of Mara Dyer to my TBR, a couple of astute friends informed me that this book's synopsis sounded strikingly similar to that of The Adoration of Jenna Fox. Naturally, I couldn't stay away from a possible rip-off controversy (I already have The Hunger Games/Battle Royale, The Giver/Matched, Twilight/Hush, Hush/Evermore "research" covered.) The jury is still out on The Unbecoming of Mara Dyer, but I found that A Long, Long Sleep had a fairly strong resemblance to The Adoration of Jenna Fox.Both set in a vaguely defined future, both involve teen girls who upon waking up after a long period of unconsciousness have to piece their pasts together, both have dangerously overbearing parents as major story players.
It is: * a young adult speculative fiction novel for girls who don't like science fiction# a coming-of-age novel for people who eschew the touchy-feely (me!)# a medical thriller, fully as suspenseful as early Robin Cook# a meditation on choices nearly as profound as Walden, which it frequently quotesAnd I think it is, very subtly, a pro-life statement.Now, I, like the reviewers at SLJ, Publishers Weekly, The Horn Book, etc., and my colleague Other Paula, who recommended it to me, enjoyed this book.
I do have to say that because the plot relies so much on secrecy, I would've never picked it up based on the cryptic jacket flap -- I didn't touch it until I had heard so many recommendations I couldn't take it.
I can say this: The characterization is wonderful and consistent, the characters are likable, and the plot was surprising.
Even as I guessed at the "twists" might be through the book, I was never quite right and even when I was close, the author's telling was so fresh and honest that it read as true surprise.
I wanted to like it more than I did, because there’s actually a lot of nice things going on here with a mother-daughter relationship, and even some gestures towards a nuanced treatment of the “issues.” But this is a book about science, and the people caught bleeding on its edge, and it got really far up my nose in the way discussions about “what it truly means to be human” always do.
I mean look, these are books about reconstructed bodies and reconstituted physical and neurological lives, and they’re all, “but what if I’m not huuuuuuman anymore, weep wail.” It’s disability anxiety dressed up pretty.
Because it is all about how people feel in their hearts – about how they are ablest assholes who ignore things like, um, consent – and not at all about ethics.
As medicine advances, ethical questions begin to develop about treatment, life and death and humanity needs to answer them.
The occurrence of near-death experiences has exploded since CPR and other life-saving techniques have developed.Imagine sometime in the near future, when bio-implants can be used to stop or even reverse internal damage.
Pearson realized how lucky she and her daughter were and it sparked her imagination.It's a worthy a question: how far would you go to save someone you love?
"chapters" are very brief and interspersed with well done poems relaying Jenna's emotions.*real spoiler* Overall an interesting read about the length a parent will go to to save a child, as well as what makes a person real and were does the soul go in such a situation.
Jenna has an identity crisis - is she the real Jenna, while only 10% - if she is real then what happened to the original Jenna...and her soul.
"The accident was over a year ago. I've been awake for two weeks. Over a year has vanished. I've gone from sixteen to seventeen. A second woman has been elected president. A twelfth planet has been named in the solar system. The last wild polar bear has died. Headline news that couldn't stir me. I slept through it all." Seventeen-year-old Jenna Fox can't remember who she is. For the last year and a half she's been in a perpetual state of vegetation, and upon waking she can remember nothing from
But even as bits and pieces of her memory begin to resurface, with the help of home videos and much encouragement from her parents, Jenna can't keep from feeling like something is wrong; with her, what her parents are telling her, and with this life she's being told is her own.Set in the not-so-distant future, The Adoration of Jenna Fox will entertain and shock its readers with suspense, romance, and evolutionary science.This is one of those books that is very hard to discuss without being spoilery, but I will endeavor to do so.For Jenna Fox, there a lot of things that don't add up.
It is an interesting premise but I need stories that are preferably packed with drama, conflicts and emotions.
The issues explored here, the ethics and morals of what makes a human, are interesting, but too light.
I would have enjoyed the story more with a deeper examination and discernment of these hypothesis.
To conclude, I'll just surmise it by saying that although Jenna's reflections have potential, the final feeling of the story is insufficient if you are an adult reader, so to properly enjoy it it would be best to be a young reader.P.S.: The audiobook narrator is very good.
I love to read good books.
This is one of them.I was a bit suspicious about it after seeing that the reviews were not that great, so I was a bit afraid to read it..
I love surprises too.
If you want a lot of action, this is not a book for you.
If you want something really funny, this is not a book for you.
If you want a 'teen-love story' this is not a book for you.
If you want something about future and technology and stuff like that..
well, you got it, this is not for you either.This is a book
I love to read good books.
If you want a 'teen-love story' this is not a book for you.
I loved to see how the memories came back to Jenna, I loved to see her realize the truth, and even if it is written in a strange/different style I loved that too about it.I liked Jenna (mostly).
(hide spoiler)] Some part of me wanted her to know this, to care more about the others..But all in one - I loved this book.
Jenna might have amnesia, but I felt like I had déjà vu: I’ve just read too many other similar stories.
I appreciate that Pearson was trying to convey some real ideas about what it means to be human, but her characters were too two-dimensional for her message to have any effect on me.
And I really, really hated the trite epilogue—it seemed very fake, and cheapened the sense of realism that the rest of the narrative was at least striving for.[Insert painfully obvious joke about not adoring Jenna Fox at all here]
I kept hearing about this book (it was just optioned for a moveie, I believe?) and everyone said "the less you know about it coming to it, the better." So I won't say much here.
It didn't have quite the same level of "I can't look away even though this completely terrifies me," feel as LAWKI, but it was that same being impressed/horrified that an author could conceive of such a scarily different, utterly possible, future.One of Pearson's strengths is her ability to create sympathetic characters.
Sci-fi isn't really my thing, but I cared enough about the character to keep following her through the story, so that says a lot.
It's also perfect that this book is written for Young Adults, because it's very much the age where we ponder our subjectivity, wonder why we were born inside this body, with this mind and all that comes with it, what makes us unique and so on.
Not that we necessarily stop, but perhaps after a while we take it for granted.It also explores the problematic issue of parental love, of pleasing loving parents at the expense of yourself, of striving to be perfect for them, and living simply because they couldn't let you go.
Jenna's parents couldn't let her go, their miracle child, and they made her more perfect than she was before.
Really liked it. My kind of book. Posed so many questions on what it means to be alive, the nature of consciousness, and the choices we make for our children, right and wrong, good and bad...
How can a book be simple, yet complicated at the same time?So strange that I don't even know how to rate it.
The Adoration of Jenna Fox is a very quiet, thoughtful book.
It's largely about family, unconditional love/adoration, identity and all the life's grey areas.
I don't think I've ever read a book like this before.
I love these type of books.
I'd really love to read such types of YA more often, there's just something so...
A very thought provoking book for me.
Recommended if you want to read something a little bit different.“Where we are going, I don't know.
But I've got to remind myself there is a continuation of this story so it's far from over.So overall, this book made me think about this quote I read at the beginning of Genesis "Is the soul more than just a hum of its parts?" I'll admit I'm not entirely sure what that means but it immediately came to mind when reading this.
I think it also has something to do with the question "Will the humans of the future still be human?" or "When does a human stop being human?" I've heard that question many times when watching science documentaries.I definitely feel there's something big coming in this series.
I really enjoyed this book. It's thought-provoking yet simple and straight to the point. Just read the synopsis for book 2 and ahh, I can't wait to read it. I only docked it to 4-stars because the pacing was a bit slow in the middle. Otherwise, a great read I recommend!
But like every other teenager known to man, all she wants to do is fit in and to live a normal life.To say THE ADORATION OF JENNA FOX isn’t your typical novel doesn’t even begin to scratch the surface of where this novel actually takes the reader.
It bounces back and forth between the present and the videotapes of the past, moving out of sync and not really linear; it doesn’t have chapters so much as it has sections or breaks; and it combines genres making classification a difficult task to say the least.But I like different about as much as teenagers like fitting in, and I found this novel to be a surprisingly pleasurable read.
There are not enough words to describe how much I loved this novel.
They're both about teenage girls living in a Dystopian world who had "accidents".
Maybe it's because this book isn't part of a trilogy & I know that every word thats written will be the last.
I felt so much empathy for Jenna, stuck in a body she didn't know how to use.
There's been alot of emphasis on other peoples emotions in this novel & Jenna almost always felt like an outcast.
But as Jenna said, Everyone has to die eventually.
This started off very well: Unique, fascinating characters. A wonderful premise and a heavy feeling of mystery and suspicion. However, as the book went on-I lost all interest. The plot went down hill, I couldnt care for the characters, and decided I was just not interested in the situation anymore. A wonderful premise, but disappointing book.
I've been waiting to read The Adoration of Jenna Fox for four years, ever since I happened upon it while browsing in B&N.
I bypassed it, but every time I saw that novel from then on I would say to myself "I'm going to read you one day" (I said it in a Southern accent too, but thats irrelevant).
Jenna Fox is a 17-year old girl who has just woken up after an 18 month coma.
It's speculative and self-reflective, and although the "mystery" of the story isn't too difficult to piece together, the book focuses more on the questions that arise from the conclusion.
I don't know if I've ever wanted an audiobook to end so badly.
I thought Jenna was an absurdly annoying character and I saw the twist coming a mile away.
I didn't care for a single character in this book.
The antagonist was...
well, I couldn't even really tell who the antagonist was.
I know I was supposed to feel bad for them but I was just like There was literally no plot to this book.
Jenna figures out the big secret and then spends the rest of the book wandering around, asking herself about the meaning of life.
When the book ended I was like...
When is a cell finally to small to hold our essence?These are just a few of the musings of the adored Jenna Fox. I personally loved the "gray" pages and think that they beautifully represent the most inner workings of the human mind.Don't read to much about this book though.
I love books like this where you never would have guessed what's going to happen.When I first heard about this book, I judged it by it's title.
Plus, I had no idea how it was going to end and I love that!
There are many parts of this book that have stayed with me.
The Adoration of Jenna Fox is a simply written story containing many complex issues.
The memories of her life slowly come back to her, filling in the empty crevices of her mind with stories of happiness and friendship.
The question is: who is Jenna Fox now?
So how come she isn't feeling 100% right with things as they are?It is difficult to write a summary of this book without giving things away, because Mary Pearson utilizes foreshadowing as a major plot device.
The Adoration of Jenna Fox is a thoughtful story that will make readers ponder and question topics of humanity today.Want to read more of my reviews?
[image error]The Adoration of Jenna Fox is an emotional story of a girl deciding how her humanity works and how a parents love for their child may mean doing anything, maybe even something they shouldn't have done, to save their child. I found Jenna's experience to be so sad yet true. How do you deal with such a changed life. Deal with a friend who doesn't believe you should be allowed to live. A boy that sees who you are but loves you. But you don't know who you are. I loved every surprise and
[image error]The Adoration of Jenna Fox is an emotional story of a girl deciding how her humanity works and how a parents love for their child may mean doing anything, maybe even something they shouldn't have done, to save their child.
Deal with a friend who doesn't believe you should be allowed to live.
Troubled Ethan was such a great friend to Jenna and I loved his character.
(view spoiler)[ Jenna Fox only has 10% of her original brain, "The Butterfly" her mom says.
When Jenna wakes up from her coma she can't remember her life or why she lives in California now instead of Boston.
Kitabın verdiği mesajlar ve değindiği bazı problemler çok hoştu ama puan kırmamı sağlayan bir yönü vardı ki o da kurgudaki bariz eksiklikti.Roman içinde sınırlandıracak olursak asıl üzerine basılan şey Jenna Fox'un kişisel gelişimi olduğundan diğer bazı olay ve karakterlerin sonuca bağlanamadığını fark ettim.Dane ve Ethan için biraz daha farklı perspektiflerden bahsedilmesi ve motivasyonların daha sağlam olması gerektiği görüşündeyim.
Sonuç olarak kitabın oldukça hoş ve kesinlikle okumaya değer olduğunu söyleyebilirim.Ayrıca The Unbecomig of Mara Dyer ile karşılaştırmaya oldukça açık bir kitap kurgu bakımından.
Ancak ilk 20-30 sayfadan sonra iki kitabın da çok farklı yerlere yöneldiğini söyleyebilirim ki bu iki romanı da özgün bir hale getiriyor.
I would have liked to know a bit more about Dane and I found the parents to be a bit ambiguous, but it was from Jenna's POV - so I suppose it matches the direction the story was going in.I also found it refreshing to read a YA that didn't have a lot of edgy material or swear words in it.
In particular, I really liked the ending.
It was just different and I could really picture it and it gave the overall story that much more scope and impact.
I feel so bad to DNF this book because I love Mary Pearson and I adored her Remnant Chronicles but this one is not doing it for me.Everything I will say from now on will sound like blasphemy to me and I almost type it with my eyes closed because I can't stand saying negative stuff about a Pearson book...but...it reminded me of...
I'm gonna say it and I'll end up in hell but that's the truth.It reminded me of We Were Liars.There.
Honesty and all that jazz.Couldn't finish even if there's a part of me that would like to know the end.
Some people will find the choppy narrative off putting, but I don't think it would have worked any other way.Throughout the book there were poems that often illuminated the internal struggle Jenna was going through and I found them to be exceptionally poignant.
I know it’s kind of disjointing, but language is such an important part of who we are as people that I feel like it just makes sense for Jenna to cling to that.
Right away you can tell something is different about Jenna and it’s not too hard to guess what.

I wanted to put it down and be done with it so many times--but I didn't and oh how I wished I had!
The main character is extremely unrealistic and so are the parents for that matter.
The details are far and few between and most of the time it is the main character asking questions , but never finding out the answers.
At times this book moved so slowly that I swear it wasn't progressing at all, it was like Groundhog's Day and I was reading the same pages over and over.
