https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/976.Deception_Point

يبهرني دان براون كل مرة بغزارة معلوماته وثقافته الشاملة في مجالات عديدةوكل مرة يختار براون موضوعا لر
Coming straight from that into Deception Point, I've noticed very quickly that Dan Brown recycles description/emotional response."Although she had practically lived in Crypto since its completion three years ago, the sight of it still amazed her.
The agency..." - Deception Point"Susan waited for the punchline, but it never came." - Digital Fortress"Rachel waited for the punchline.
Susan Fletcher (Digital Fortress) is, like Rachel Sexton (Deception Point) a professional woman, pretty, the best in her field, similarly in over her head and somehow coming out okay.Also, the infodumps get terribly annoying.
رواية مختلفة في مضمونها عن باقي روايات المحترف دان براون رواية ذات جانبين متناقضين..محورهما واحد، وكالة ناساهل تعلم أن ناسا وكالة تابعة للحكومة اﻷمريكية؟ مقدمة طويلة بعيدة عن الروايةمؤخرا "يوليو 2015" العالم كله يتحدث في وسائل الأعلام وشبكات التواصل الإجتماعي عن إكتشاف مذهل لناسا .. الأرض 2.0الإكتشاف المذهل الخطير لكوكب قابل للعيش به بكل الإمكانيات,بل وأكبرإكتشاف جعل شعبية صفحة ناسا علي الفيس بوك تزداد أضعافا مضاعفة عالميا بحسب تسجيلات الأعجاب والمشاركات'الشير' للصفحة وكشف المنظمة المذهل..حتي في

Deception Point, Dan BrownDeception Point is a 2001 thriller novel written by Dan Brown.A NASA satellite finds evidence of a rare object buried deep in the Arctic ice, NASA proclaims a much-needed victory that has profound implications for U.S. space policy and the upcoming presidential election.
رمان «نقطه ی فریب» دن براون با ترجمه نوشین ریشهری را انتشارات نگارینه منتشر کرده، همین رمان را با عنوان «تزویر» و با ترجمه ی «عمید حقیقت جو» انتشارات معین نیز در سال 1389 منتشر کرده، و با عنوان «» حقیقت یخی با ترجمه ندا شادنظر است.
ا. شربیانی
I liked a lot this novel!  NASA AND MY PERSONAL ADMIRATION FOR THAT INSTITUTION  In my mind, the men and women of NASA are history's modern pioneers. They attempt the impossible, accept failure, and then back to the drawing board while the rest of us stand back and criticize. Back then in 2009, I found this novel by chance or fate.By then, I already knew who Dan Brown was (it's not like I was living in cave, hehehe) but I still have to read his way popular books with the character of Robert Lan
The main point is that I admire a lot to NASA.And I am still a great fan of anything related with NASA.In fact, one of my fondest memories is when finally I was able to visit the Kennedy Space Center.
I think that a proof of how good is this book (at least to me) is that it's a real dark story, full of dangers and deceptions (it's on the title!) related to NASA and since I admire the institution but the story is presented in such smart and plausible way that I could embrace the tale with open mind, understanding the intended bottom line in the book.
In this work, Dan Brown made the book more interesting because he kept a light on a different direction. Our world is already ruled in the shadow of political games. The realities know they can only read between the lines.
My aunt gave this to me to read..I of course hate Dan Brown but I figure it'd be fast and I could thank her for it, mention some interesting tidbits that are no doubt sprinkled throughout the book for idiots, and feel good about family duty.
In 2 pages he found it ok to mention coffee 5 times.
And you will feel it.
Unless you're an idiot.
I didn't read 140 pages because I was thrilled, I read it because it took that long for Dan Brown to get to the premise of the effing book.
Enjoy, idiots.
"شفرة دافنشي"، "ملائكة وشياطين" وأخيرا "الرمز المفقود" لم تحتوي على نفس هذا التوجه السينمائي، ربما لأن طبيعة الرواية ونوعية شخصية البطل (روبرت لانغدون) الذي صار معروفاً لدى الجمهور، تجعل هذه الروايات لا تحتاج إلى بناء شخصياتها بهذا الشكل السينمائي الصريح، لا سيما أننا بعد 3 روايات صرنا نفهم شخصية "روبرت لانغدون" جيداً، وتكشفت لنا تركيبته وأعماقه، فلا داعي لإفساد الرواية بوضعها في قالب التصوير السينمائي المميز للسينما الأمريكية، والتي أعتبرها، في رأيي الخاص، شديدة الضحالة فيما يتعلق بإظهار عمق الشخصيات وتركيباتها النفسية.فيما عدا ذلك لابد لي من الاعتراف أن "دان براون" هو موهبة حقيقية..
أشار المؤلف في بداية الرواية إلى أن كل التقنيات و الأسلحة الموصفة موجودة فعلا ... و نشرت الرواية عام 2001 لذا و بعد انتهائي لا يسعني سوى أتساءل في عام 2012 ما حجم ما وصلت إليه ناسا و لا نعلم عنه شيء ؟ و لأي درجة من التطور وصلت التقنيات التي تستخدمها القوات الأمريكية ... و على لسان مدير ناسا في الأحداث بالطبع أنه يوجد تأخر مقداره اثنتي عشر سنة بين ما يمكن أن تبنيه الحكومة و بين ما يعلم عنه الشعب ... رواية مميزة جدا
رمان «نقطه ی فریب» دن براون؛ را با ترجمه بانو: نوشین ریشهری؛ انتشارات نگارینه در سال 1384 هجری خورشیدی و چاپ دوم آنرا در سال 1385 هجری خورشیدی، و چاپ سوم را در سال 1388 هجری خورشیدی؛ در 256 ص، منتشر کرده، همین رمان با عنوان: «تزویر» و با ترجمه ی جناب: مهدی حقیقت جو، در 518 ص، را نیز انتشارات معین در سال 1389 هجری خورشیدی منتشر کرده است.
و با عنوان: حقیقت یخی، با ترجمه بانو: ندا شادنظر، در 485 ص، در سال 1388، در انتشارات افراز، منتشر شده است.
The good 'ole days of Dan Brown, that's for sure. This is by far his best book in my opinion. The book is readable and lacks the self-indulgence seen with so many other authors and so many other Dan Brown books!
This is the third book by Dan Brown that I have read (the other two being The Da Vinci Code and Angels & Demons) and I think by now it's safe to say that I don't like him as an author.
It's not necessarily a bad thing I guess, just not to my personal taste.
This time though, we are not dealing with religious sects but with the NASA, the CIA and the government.Like I said, this formula isn't necessarily a bad thing, and I'm guessing Dan Brown fans will like this book.
Very good and engaging, because it's by Dan Brown, but not as great as Inferno or The Daily Vince Code. Actual rating 3.8
I love brown's writing style and I will always love it.
I can't say I enjoyed this book...
It took me a while to finish it...And I have to admit I skimmed through some of the pages around the middle of the book...
I'm just not into all this political drama and NASA stuff..
To put it in a nutshell I wasn't really impressed by the storyline but like I said Dan Brown is an expert at what he does.
He can even make a tedious story seem interesting..I prefer the Robert Langdon series and I would definitely recommend them to mystery lovers!
She works for the White House and is curiously the daughter of the man, Senator Sedgewick Sexton, who yearns to dethrone the current president.
Zach Herney, seems to have no problem admitting that he intends to use Rachel as a catapult for a breakthrough that would once and for all bring down his own father.Has NASA finally made a discovery with such a scientific impact?
A meteorite installed on the Milne Platform, a meteorite that housed fossils of creatures, isopods, never seen before on Earth, that is, true ETs.This discovery could not have come at a better time for the president, for NASA.
Another fast-paced thriller dealing with the NSA from Dan Brown.
From start to finish Deception Point takes the ball and runs with it like any other Dan Brown thriller.
I don't know why these two novels didn't get the press that the Robert Langdon novels did, perhaps it's because they deal with the NSA instead of having a religious based theme that stirs up controversy.
Whatever the reason, if you enjoy Dan Brown's Robert Langdon novels or are just a fan of a good thriller, I'd recommend giving Deception Point a chance.
It kept me turning from page to page, thrilled by the action and fast paced plot.
Confused by the sudden and unexpected plot twists.
The main character is female, strong, intelligent, beautiful, and rich (I didn't expected less from Mr. Brown).
Anyway, typical super heroine from an action book.
I wanted more than just thoughtless and senseless action from the book.
I was expecting a cunning and deliberate plot twists that I didn't see coming, but I eventually settled with it, considering it brilliant, beyond amazingness.
The dialogues are comical, but most of the times I found myself rolling my eyes to the "quirky" and "witty" comments of the characters.
My favorite Dan Brown novel.Just like his Robert Langdon series this is sometimes a little silly but, like the better Langdon novels, it's also a lot of page-turning fun.It's about NASA's discovery of a meteorite in the Arctic ice which seems to contain evidence of extraterrestrial life.
أنا أعتبر دان براون كاتب عبقري له قدرة مذهلة في خلق الإثارة والتشويق والتي غالباً ماتكون في ظل مؤامرات ومطاردات بين أطراف كثيرة، أسلوب السرد مشوق ووصفي للغاية ، كذلك طريقة الإنتقال من مشهد لآخر تصويرية جداً ، والذي يجعل روايات براون سينمائية من الدرجة الأولى، بالنسبة لي قراءة روايات براون أشبه بمشاهدة فيلم سينمائي ..
كذلك يتميز باضافة معلومات هائلة ورهيبة في المحتوى.
أعتقد انها لم تكن بروعة " شفرة دافنشي" و" ملائكة وشياطين وأعتقد أنني افتقدت روبرت لانغدون هذه المرة ...
As a stand-alone Dan Brown book this one was interesting and did hold its own against Robert Langdon and his never ending series.
The chapters are also set from different perspectives; this was enjoyable but sometimes chapters were a page long and the book seemed to be a bit haphazard at times.Overall this was an enjoyable read, the twist at the end I never guessed..
The end really saved the book in my opinion as all the ulterior motives came out that were so nuanced before you barely noticed.
I am a loyal fan of Dan Brown and am proud to say that I have read all his books except for the Angels & Demons which I hope to read in the near future.
Interesting!The book is woven around NASA’s discovery of a meteorite containing fossils claiming evidence of extraterrestrial life, the effect of this finding on U.S national space policy and future of NASA, the impending U.S presidential election, a daring scientific trickery and an astonishing deception.
The male protagonist too has been given equal strength in the book which I found quite refreshing.
This is one of the few books I wanted to throw across the room. Especially when the protagonist starts tapping Morse code out on the iceberg to attract the patrolling nuclear submarine. Give me a break.
رواية مفعمة بالاثارة زاد من جمالها ذلك الخيال المرتبط بالتكنولوجيا وتلك المعلومات التقنية التي وظفها دان براون ضمن نسق منظم وجميل . لا يخلو الكتاب من نقد مبطن وايضا صريح لامريكا وذلك الاسراف الذي يضيع هباء من اجل الهوس الفضائي والغلو فيه يعيب الرواية تلك الاطالة التي يكثر فيها الكاتب من التفاصيل التي بعضها لا تفيد القارئ وسوف ينساها باي حال بعد الانتهاء من قراءتها ولكن بشكل عام الرواية جذابة وتستحق القراءة وهي مشوقة لآخر مدى.

Uzun zaman önce okudum. Tek hatırladığım kitabı sevmemiştim. Ve bu yüzden de bir daha Dan Brown okumamıştım elimde başka kitapları olmasına rağmen. İçim yanıyor.
see her as a daughter replacement.Add a sprinkling of other characters that move the storyline along, add some comic value but you don't really have to invest much time or thought into.Add a large helping of historical/scientific facts that are inaccurate (or that sound pretty accurate to the non-educated reader) or have stolen from an already written, less reader friendly, non-fiction book that not many people know about or have read.Add a splash of professional killer/killers hunting down the main characters, but are obviously not professional enough to kill them off.
رواية مذهلة ، كمية معلومات مهولة ، و طريقة سرد رائعة و تشويق و إثارة لأقصى الحدود ، عمل عظيم جدا و ك
Daha önce okuduğum kitaplardan aldığım Brown tadını alamadım.
After I read The DaVinci Code, which I liked, and Angels and Demons, which I loved I put the other Dan Brown books on my wish list.
I ended up enjoying it but found that it lacked the fast pacing that the previous books had (especially Angels and Demons).
The plot was nicely done, the find was surprising but I suppose one of the reasons I enjoyed the other books was because they dealt with historical people and monuments.
Rachel and Tolland were really nice characters and as is usual in the Dan Brown books they give in to their attraction in the end.Grade: C+, entertaining but forgettable.
