https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/139087.The_Line_of_Beauty
I started this last night, heading home after one of the most dreadful evenings in recent memory.So lately my life does seem like a pot of thick, scalding acrid coffee; I read books in the hope that they'll help me choke it down.
The plot developments and characters were predictable and I could see how one might argue they were cliched, but somehow even this kind of worked for me, and made it seem more like an older novel, in a good way.
There is a classic definition of the line of beauty depicted by Hogarth in his work  Analyse of beauty , it’s a S-shaped double curve, though for Nick, the main protagonist of Alan Hollinghurst novel, the perfect line of beauty creates delicate curve of lover’s back.Novel starts in the summer 1983 when young Nick Guest moves into the house of his friend Toby Fedden.
But towards the end when Nick makes an appearance of perfect scapegoat and in an air of scandal abandons the Feddens’ house, just then, embracing all spent there years, foreboding years that were yet to come, sensing in fact his absence then, has finally his brief vision of clear beauty.4,5/5
I can't really do justice to the book in a short review, for which I apologise.This story of Nick Guest, a young man whose position as a lodger in the house of a Tory MP in Kensington puts him at the periphery of various powerful circles at the height of the Thatcher government in the 80s, works on many different levels.
I was struck by a paragraph where Nick is trying to justify his vision of an artistic film of a James book (The Spoils of Poynton) to a rich but philistine potential backer who has just told him that the story "kinda sucks": "'Does it...?' said Nick; and, trying to be charming, 'It's just like life, though, isn't it - maybe too like life for a ...
One must know how much pathos is ingrained in these particular events from not too long ago...since it adds the requisite magic to elevate them, these modern classics.It's about: gay sex & drugs, the 1980's & financial power.
The politics do take second stage (& with grace).
exquisite), THE LINE OF BEAUTY has all the best of what (American) Bret Easton Ellis has to offer in the world of risque lit., plus a more distinguished, intelligent language of its own, & a master's effortlessness with prose & form.
I must say that politics aside, the story is BRIDESHEAD REVISITED 2.0.
What was never shown in that particular work of British manners and bourgeois life is found nestled here.
Nick moves in glamorous circles and the line of beauty goes back to Hogarth’s s shaped curve in his book.
The spectre of AIDS gradually grows as the book goes on, although it does not really affect the Fedden’s and their political circles, nor the sections of the upper class they mix with.
Nick is an amiable narrator who seems to drift through the book without being too greatly affected by it all.
Nick is amiable, but for me his character is summed up by an incident near the end of the book.
I alternately dragged out the reading experience to relish the language, and sped through sections because I felt greedy and impatient and wanted to see what linguistic marvels Alan Hollinghurst could produce next.The story is centered round an upper-middle class family in London, whose son of the house, Toby, has a friend, Nick, stay over at the family’s posh Kensington home - a situation that lasts longer than any of them had expected and which has consequences for all.
(Interestingly, Toibin’s finalist book, “The Master” is the retelling of the early part of Henry James’ life.) Nick is invited by his fellow Oxford graduate and secret crush, a straight man, Toby to stay in the attic of their beautiful London upper class house.
I am not sure if Hollinghurst only wants to project an honest-to-goodness portrayal of the lives of gay men in the London in the 80’s but the language he used in this novel could be too much for some readers.
However, if you look over this supposedly “honest” language and portrayal and focus on the prose, theme, plot and character development, you will see the beauty in the novel as a whole.
This well-written society critique and winner of the 2004 Man Booker prize will bore the pants off you unless you are deeply interested in class struggle, gayness, politics, ethnicity, and AIDs, (the intersection of) in England in the mid-to-late 80s.
Talk about a niche!It was one of two books I brought on my 20 hour flight to Singapore, where I was planning on enjoying, at long last, some time to myself to read.
About 50 pages into it, my mind cried, "Noooooo" and I was resigned to watching the full catalog of international TV comedies (Hum Paanch, anyone?) on Singapore Airline's TV on demand.
As it took me so long to read, I spent an embarrassing amount of time repeating to people who asked me what I was reading that it was Line of Beauty, about a young homosexual during Thatcher's 80s England, staying at his straight friend's home, making a life for himself after Oxford, and that they just had to read it.
But this isn't just about a middle-class boy in the rarefied world of Oxford, a servant among lords, a homosexual in a "straight" family, a liberal among conservatives, or young adults finding the harshness of reality after the college cocoon.
3.5 stars A really masterful novel, though not one that I'd say I always particularly enjoyed. The dragging middle was book-ended by some wonderfully flagrant and emotional moments. I especially loved how Hollinghurst was able to stir up so emotion in the final scenes. It touches on public and private selves, love, beauty, all rather grandiose themes, in a startlingly humorous and down-to-earth manner.
Hollinghurst holds up for us the thinness of beauty and the foolishness of its worship, yet when Nick's ostensibly hollow collaboration with shallow, materialistic, philistine Wani comes to unexpected glorious (but limited) fruition we are invited to reconsider.
The conversation prompted me to think hard about this, and to see how personal beauty being instrumentalised has a regressive effect, reinforcing hierarchies and layers of oppression.
On the other hand, if beauty is visceral and inextricably related to positive identification and sympathy, we need to work hard to pull the encultured hierarchies from it.
The gay Great Gatsby in Thacher's England. Also, the best book I've read in years.
I find it difficult to rate and review this book.
Despite these negative aspects, the book provided an insightful view on the politics of the Thatcher-years, and (more importantly for me personally) it brought back the 'beginning' of AIDS in the early and mid-eighties.
I remember that time vividly, the first articles appearing in the popular press in which the new disease was dubbed 'gay-cancer' & the first of my friends getting ill and dying.For those interested in these topics the book is certainly worthwile.
It took me a little while to get into this book, but when I did, I couldn't stop.
For a little while I couldn't see what the point of the story was.
The 1980s and especially Conservative politicians, and rich families weren't something that I thought interested me, but although that's the decade this book is set in, and that's the backdrop to what happens, it isn't about that at all.
It's about thinking that you are accepted and welcomed, and then suddenly those that you thought loved you, turning and suddenly you can see them for what they are.
Maggie, Charlie, and the BoysThe effusive press comments quoted on the cover and flyleaf of the paperback edition of Alan Hollinghurst's The Line of Beauty are totally correct in everything they actually say; they merely fail to mention one of the most important aspects of the book.
By portraying the narrator of the book, Nick Guest, as a gay man in an ostensibly straight world, Hollinghurst achieves an oblique angle on the people he observes, moving considerably more than an inch from the axis on which they would ideally see themselves.
DNF at about pg 228.The Line of Beauty is actually the first book I don't finish.
It is a bittersweet feeling, but I am quite happy with my decision and I feel absolutely relieved.I always pressure myself to finish the book even if I don't like it and such.
I feel like I should apologize to the author, to the characters, to the story and to the physical book itself.
I am the only one who reads my books, no one else does it for me.I should (and have to) do what it feels right to do for myself at the moment.
Another Booker Prize Winner I liked but couldn't love.
And now it is 2011 and Alan Hollinghurst's new book The Stranger's Child has been long listed for this year's prize and already he's the bookmakers' pick to win.He probably will, and maybe this time he'll deserve it.That's not fair of me, though.
It's not like The Line of Beauty was a bad book.
I found him pathetic, to be honest, and even though I felt that Hollinghurst purposely presented him as unsympathetic, I couldn't make myself go along for the ride.
Oh well, even if I couldn't love it, I did like it.
the plot started to pick up -or rather, the author found the plot- in the last third of the book or so, but that was 300+ pages in.
For beautiful prose, this book tries but does not hit the mark.
The writing isn't speaking to me, the story is disjointed and the characters don't seem real enough to me.
Finishing this book is like forcing down the rest of the vegetables you don't like.
O livro começa com a segunda vitória eleitoral de Margaret Thatcher em 1983 e termina em 1987, no ano em que acaba esse mesmo mandato.
Na primeira parte da história Alan Hollinghurst foca-se sobretudo na vida amorosa de Nick.
Jovem, atraente e homossexual assumido, Nick procura o seu ideal parceiro e tudo leva a crer que o encontra em Leo. Porém, na segunda parte, já no ano de 1986, vemos que as coisas estão radicalmente diferentes e só mais para o fim entendemos realmente porquê.
Hollinghurst entretece de forma brilhante temas como a epidemia do HIV, o consumo de drogas, doenças mentais e o panorama político.

تاريخ القراءة الأصلي : 2009
The scandalous denouement, the shameful secret-spilling that wraps up the book, is brought about by Catherine, the sister of Nick's undergrad crush Toby.
Nick, and his lovers Leo and Wani are so much more complex creations, and so much more important to the book, that it didn't bother me that Catherine was so banal and badly done--just as long as she was irrelevant.
They provide the frame, the setting, and their small bag of traits and attitudes are sufficiently well shuffled and deployed as to make convincing characters--but Hollinghurst didn't really need to shift his focus back to them at the end.
(So much for their cosmopolitan sophistication: America's National Book Award went to an equally explicit gay book way back in 1992, an autobiography called "Becoming a Man.")Some critics have played up the novel's political and social satire, and those elements are certainly there and brilliant, but I wonder if it's squeamishness or political correctness that keeps them from stating that this is primarily a story about gay sexuality and it contains scenes that many readers will find deeply offensive.The novel opens in 1983 when Nick Guest, a graduate student pursuing a PhD on Henry James, moves in with the Feddens, an upper-class family in London's Notting Hill.
I loved the innovative, inspiring description (a favourite line: 'Sally Tipper had a lot of blonde hair in expensive confusion') and the development of the characters was masterful - in particular, Wani's physical deterioration was so vividly depicted, and all the more powerful for being detailed more through others' reactions than by direct description.All in all, I admired the novel tremendously - Hollinghurst's use of language is astounding - but I often wasn't sure whether I was actually enjoying it or not, and I don't think it's one I could read again.
I don't think I liked Nick much and I'm still not sure whether or not I was supposed to; and after finishing the book I felt empty and desolate.
I enjoyed this enormously.
Hollinghurst is a great stylist and his debt to Henry James, suggested throughout (the protagonist is writing a thesis on 'The Master'), is always evident.
Best of all is his subtle but uncompromising social satire: few of the characteres are particularly sympathetic but all are energetically realised and very believable.
Considering AIDS, the boom in cocaine use, and parlimentary scandal, this is nonetheless much more than mere social documentation.
At times I felt the symbolism suggested by the title became a bit strained and occasionally I had the sense that Hollinghurst was overindulging in his ornate style.
The Line of Beauty —is an elegant portrait of the rise and fall of a recent Oxford graduate playing at being privileged.—is a coming out story of said grad who does not quite come of age.—is a British period piece during the Thatcher reign.—is an exposé of useless pedantry—shows that a social class, by any name, is a social class—is reminiscent of Evelyn Waugh in prose and moodI read this after seeing the movie, so had pictures in my mind of the characters. It did not ruin the book for me. I lo
—is an elegant portrait of the rise and fall of a recent Oxford graduate playing at being privileged.—is a coming out story of said grad who does not quite come of age.—is a British period piece during the Thatcher reign.—is an exposé of useless pedantry—shows that a social class, by any name, is a social class—is reminiscent of Evelyn Waugh in prose and moodI read this after seeing the movie, so had pictures in my mind of the characters.
But, I would suggest reading the book first so you can create your own images of the characters.
I believe I might have read this when it first came out (or maybe I am remembering the BBC adaptation), but if anything, the decade since its publication has only enriched the experience even more.
A 'Brideshead Revisited' for the Thatcher era, it contains some of the most exquisite prose in a modern book.
PS...after finishing this, I did go back and re-watch the BBC adaptation...even though it is pretty good in its own right, it is not nearly as good as the book (but then, few film versions are)...
particularly interesting in containing the first major roles for both Dan Stevens and Hayley Atwell!)
You don't want us at your regular-people bars, won't let us sleep in the same bed in our homes without feeling guilty about it, and won't even admit it, because you've evolved at least enough to know that's terrible, but not enough to do anything about it.
Anyone who knows me has heard me ramble to death on the "You'll be like us one day" attitude with which most Norwegians treat ex-patriates, which is the exact opposite of celebrating diversity, which is the entire point of employing ex-pats—but wait, no it isn't, if they are in fact equal...
Which is an interesting thing to have in a book that condemns those very people.
His novels explore the interconnectedness and conflicts between art and society, love, sexuality, and desire.The Line of Beauty opens in 1983 when its young protagonist Nick Guest’s sexual experience seems to be limited to unrequited lust for his Oxford friend, the handsome and athletic Toby Fedden.
The young man himself could be a character from a James novel, a cooly-observing outsider who is able to charm his way into a world in which he obviously does not belong.
In the tradition of Henry James, The Line of Beauty is a stunning and subtle tale of a young man coming of age in a beautiful, dangerous world.
Nick is a young educated middle class man who sides himself with the family of a wealthy politician, and ingratiates himself into the family’s life, taking occupancy in their son’s old room.
He’s recently come out to his closest friends (however not his family) and is beginning to live the life that he thinks a young gay man should live.
This element of the novel provides a solemn filter for the rather frivolous happenings of the Feddens, and as we move closer to the climax, the juxtaposition of the privileged life and the bias towards the gay community, the narration takes on a more serious tone.
