https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1357471.The_Thanksgiving_Story
A great educational book for your children over the preschool age. A great, easy to understand book about the first Thanksgiving. Also a Caldecott award winner. My 6 yr old loved it. Lots of good information with beautiful pictures that will help keep children engaged. A great addition to any children's library.
This book is an entirely outdated story of the Pilgrims and Native Americans; while it is written and organized quite well, it lacks in truth. I would recommend this to adults that have a better understanding of the facts (to see what people actually believed to be the truth), but to read this to a child would be an outlandish disgrace to what is the history.
• 1955 Caldecott Honor Book •I was excited to read this, because I don’t think I’ve ever read a Thanksgiving book for children.
It’s pretty outdated.
The illustrations are ok, but I don’t love the pink in the photos (orange, brown, yellow...
and pink?).
I read this because I’m trying to read all the Caldecott books, and placed it on hold at my library two weeks before Thanksgiving.
Several people had it on hold.
There must be better Thanksgiving books than this!
I also didn’t really understand how much of the story was true - the internet tells me indeed there was a family named Hopkins, but an author’s note would have been really useful for this.
I'd be interested to fact-check the data, as it seems like some of it is supported in other sources I've read, while other details aren't.
While that may be true, I haven't seen any record yet (though I haven't looked) of Squanto staying with the Hopkins family, nor of him being held in suspicion, or that the Pilgrims wouldn't want him there.In a word this story can be described as dated.
It's got a spattering of facts in a dry way that seems out of touch with the way children enjoy stories today.
I think I'm going to have to fact-check it for further details.
1. Book summary, in your own words (3 pts)The Thanksgiving Story is a Caldecott Honor Book.
Appropriate classroom use (subject area) (1 pt)This could be a book I could use for the history part of class, around Thanksgiving.
4. Individual students who might benefit from reading (1 pt)Students who love history would like this book.5.
Small group use (literature circles) (1 pt)I could use this book in small groups for students to practice reading fluency.6.
Related books in genre/subject or content area (1 pt)The Story of the Pilgrims by Katharine RossThe Pilgrims’ First Thanksgiving by Ann McgovernSquanto, Friend of the Pilgrims by Clyde Robert Bulla 8.
This is a romanticized retelling of the pilgrims’ journey to the New World, of their relationships with the American Indians, and of the first Thanksgiving feast.
It’s told in this strangely distant tone that glosses over anything bad that happened, and toward the end, it’s slips into this conditional language, guessing at what could have taken place at the Thanksgiving feast instead of telling us what did happen.
The book jacket calls it a “book to read aloud to children when they first want to know why we have Thanksgiving day.” It’s really far too long for preschoolers, and not particularly informative.
I think I've read this story before as it felt very familiar to me. I suspect somewhere in my growing up I've stumbled on this book before.The story is given in a more non-fiction, just the facts kind of way without too much to connect the readers to the characters. I liked the illustrations but feel a great deal of history is glossed over here. Still, it's a book for kids so one can't expect too much. Overall, it isn't bad, but it isn't great either.
1. Caldecott Medal for 1955.2.Appropriate level: 2-5th grade3.Summary: This book about the first Thanksgiving in America. The story revolves around The Hopkins family who were passengers on the crowded Mayflower. It is described through the eyes of three Puritan children.4.Review: This story is very detailed and nicely organized. This story informs us of what happened between the Pilgrims and Native Americans. It is filled with many vocabulary words for the children.5. Great book about teaching children about the origins of the Thanksgiving celebration. Also, teachs children who Native Indians are. And lastly the importance of the celebration.
Great book for around Thanksgiving. The book tells the history of Thanksgiving with pictures for children to enjoy. The story starts with the Great Migration and ends with the Thanksgiving meal. Perfect for your classroom around the holidays!
I would definitely incorperate this book into my classroom during Thanksgiving as a differetn approach of telling the story of Thanksgiving.
It tells the whole story of the first Thanksgiving with the settlers and the Indians in a clear and easily understood way.
The best quote came at the end of the story, "The Pilgrims wanted to have a special day to thank God for all he had given them and invited the Indians."This would be a great story to incorporate during Thanksgiving to explain the history of Thanksgiving to students.
Students could dress up as Pilgrims and Indians and Have our own "feast" in our classroom.
Read with Naomi.
I think it's fair to say that it clearly shows it's age with respect to language, depictions of native peoples (two illustrations - front cover and the first Thanksgiving at the end), cultural sensitivity, and historical accuracy.
I would say overall, this book is better than a lot of other children's accounts of the first Thanksgiving but it needs some editing as you read it (as a starting point I substituted Wampanoag people or native peoples for "Indians" throughout), and it's problems are similar to those of other accounts, even modern ones.
The Hopkins family even had a new baby on the voyage.This book is very educational and tells the story of the very first Thanksgiving in a kid friendly and understandable way.
This book does a good job of including the Indians and showing them in a positive, yet realistic light.
There was death, sickness, starvation, and more on the ship and the in the new land, but Dalgliesh does a good job of informing readers of this while still sparing young readers the gory details.
The pictures in this book are also very good, they have lots of details and good coloring.
This is precisely what children's history books should be!
*wink*The book reads in a few short and easy chapters, and Dalgliesh follows one of the families with four children so you get a more child-like perspective.
You'll learn some of the names of the Pilgrims, the Indians and how we came to celebrate such a memorable holiday as Thanksgiving.
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it!
Visit my website: The Book Radar.#thanksgiving
I'm a little late in the season for this one, but didn't want to return a Caldecott book to the library without reading it, so Thanksgiving at Christmastime it is. I enjoyed the artwork, but suspect this is a rather simplified version of the relations between pilgrims and the Native Americans.
A simple, and seemingly factual account told from the perspective of the Hopkins children.
Even though the book alludes to the trials faced by the pilgrims in Mayflower journey and establishment of Plymouth Plantation, the Hopkins family seems to emerge unscathed, casting doubt on the veracity of the story as presented.
Samoset and Squanto (along with peculiar reference to the suspicion of them) are referenced, as well as the Thanksgiving feast.Although this work is a Caldecott Medal winner (1995), I prefer Kate Waters' series (Samuel Eaten's Day, Sarah Morton's Day, Tapenum's Day), though these three do not reference Thanksgiving specifically.
This was my book as a child and somehow it survived all this time so that I could pull it out when my 3.5 year old son asked me "What is Thanksgiving?" I began to explain the story to him when he interrupted me to ask if thanksgiving was when you ate turkey so I decided to dig this book out to hold his attention a bit longer.
It is very wordy and while my son sat and listened to the entire thing, it seems more appropriate for a young grade schooler.All in all, a very nice account of the thanksgiving story!
Ironic that I read a Thanksgiving book on Halloween, but I had started it a few days earlier and wanted something quick to read last night.
This book won a 1955 Caldecott Honor.
The story was mildly interesting, told from the viewpoint of the Hopkins family, whose mother gave birth to a son while on the voyage to America and named him Oceanus.
The family was on the Mayflower on the way from England to New Plymouth, and details their first year in the colony and their relations with the Native Americans.
The first Thanksgiving seems to be almost an afterthought.
In simple terms relates the crossing and landing of the Mayflower, the first year in the Colonies of the travelers, how the Native Americans helped, and the first Thanksgiving celebration.I've read some of the diaries of the Plymouth residents and this picture book matches up with those better than most.
I liked how Dalgliesh would say "probably" or "perhaps" when talking about events she wasn't exactly sure of the details.
It's good for kids to see how to write about hypothesized events.
The illustrations in this are ok, but not overly great.
They reminded me a bit too much of textbook illustrations from childhood (which weren't necessarily appealing).
This picture book tells the story behind pilgrims, the Mayflower and the Thanksgiving holiday from the perspective of the fictional Hopkins family.If my rating was based solely on the story, I would have given it just two stars as the story is just okay.
There are pretty dated depictions of Indians.
I try to remember that the book was written in 1954, so this is to be expected.
However, even beyond that, the story was so so.
The reason I gave the book three stars is I loved Helen Sewell's illustrations.
They are beautiful and her use of color is gorgeous.
I read this book to a group of first graders today and it left a bad aftertaste, like I was lying to them.
It was outdated, historically inaccurate, and the narrative was weird, like the author kept mentioning a particular family but it was an overall "look" at what they believed the voyage to be like, but not from the mentioned family's perspective...the family never really seemed as if there was anything setting them apart from any other Pilgrim family, so mentioning them so often with no point was lost on me.
It didn't keep the kids attention.Overall if felt like the version of Thanksgiving that society wants to believe rather than actual history.
Alice Dagliesh’s The Thanksgiving Story (illustrated by Helen Sewell) is another book about a child’s family traveling to Plymouth.
Ironically, The Thanksgiving Story won a Caldecott Honor for its illustrations.
It has lots of details, and we read it over the course of two different days.
The story is based on a real family that traveled on the Mayflower.
In general, it’s a wonderful selection for the season, but because of the abundance of text and details, it is not one that all younger children will enjoy.
(It's not as "alive" as other stories written more recently.)
The thanksgiving story is one that we celebrate every year.
This book gives more of the history behind it.
This was a good read.
I enjoyed the classic illustrations and the history that puts even more meaning into our grateful holiday.
I think students would enjoy it too.
This would be a good one to read with the class.
I don't know if many students would pick this book up from the library voluntarily because of its nature.
Once they read it, though, it would be really beneficial to discuss and continue researching the origins of our thanksgiving holiday.
This is an interesting book, with the basics of the pilgrims' journey on the Mayflower and first year in a place that would be named Massachusetts.
It was a timely story, great for this time of year.
And with our oldest performing in a school play about Thanksgiving and our own family history, with ancestors on the Mayflower, I thought it would be a great way to introduce the topic.
I like that the narrative centers around a family with children, so that children can relate to them.
This is the first Thanksgiving in New Plymouth told by looking at a family and especially their five children. The primitive, Americana-like illustrations have a dated feel (maybe that's good since we are coming up on the four hundredth anniversary of the sailing). There is an everyday feel to the account in describing the voyage, landing in the new territory, surviving sickness and a hard winter, encounters with those Native Americans already there, and the celebration of America's first Thanksgiving Day. In the end, it's just hard to get excited about this book.
This award winning story is about how the Pilgrims traveled to America. It told about a family and their experiences on the Mayflower and when they got to the new land. It is a story about how the first thanksgiving came about. I really like how the story is broken down into different chapters. This allows you to split the story up into different lessons and can take more than one day to read it. I would use this story to teach children what thanksgiving really is and how the Pilgrims and Indians worked together to create the first thanksgiving.
This is the story of the first Thanksgiving in America. This book begins with the sailing of the Mayflower and continues on to describe the terrible conditions that the passengers endured on the way to the new land. The book explains how times were rough when the first arrived, and it also explains how the holiday of Thanksgiving came to be. I really liked the illustrations in this book. I also liked the way that it read like a fiction, but was still full of facts. I would read this every year around Thanksgiving to my class.
"The Thanksgiving Story" tells the story of the first settlers or pilgrims of Plymouth. Not only are we told about their travels but also about their interactions with the Indians and their struggle to adapt to a new place, while learnig new ways in which to harvest and think. Finally we learn about teh Thanksgiving Dinner and how the pilgrims interacted with the Indians. It is a good book for children to be taught about thangsgiving and its history. Not only does it contain simple vocabulary but also descriptive pictures.
I'd use this with 8 or 9 year old children. Younger kids would probably lose interest fairly quickly, but a child with imagination could get a sense of what those first settlers experienced. Is it totally accurate? Probably not; it was written in the early 1950s, but it does tell the basic story, and it does say that there were "so few Indians in that part of the country" because "many of them had died of sickness." (That's an important part of the story that I didn't learn in elementary school.)
This is my informational genre. The Thanksgiving Story is an easy-to-understand version for elementary students that begins with the Pilgrims departure from England and continues through the Thanksgiving story. The text is good, but the illustrations are very stiff--not lifelike at all. However, there is good use of shading in the color, and the illustrations have an interesting perspective. For an overall, historically accurate version of the Pilgrims journey to America, I give this a four-star rating.
