https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6528.Predator
Book Review  3.499999 (rounded down to a 3) out of 5 stars to Predator, the 14th book in the thriller and suspense mystery "Kay Scarpetta" series, published in 2005 by Patricia Cornwell. With so many books in a series, all about crazed serial killers, each successive one needs to do a lot to step it up. I thought this one would do it, as the book focused on multiple killers and tries to understand patterns using brain research. And parts of it were great. But parts of it were too difficult to
With so many books in a series, all about crazed serial killers, each successive one needs to do a lot to step it up.
I thought this one would do it, as the book focused on multiple killers and tries to understand patterns using brain research.
It's one of those series you need to take a break from for a few years, to try new stuff.
With this one, it's very analytic from a psychology and thought-pattern perspective, less from a tracking movements of the killer's actions.
I've read every single one of Cornwell's K. Scarpetta series, and they've gotten progressively worse. I used to love these books, they were so GOOD, but now it's like she's just writing anything to get another book out there. Sad, b/c these really were some of my favorites back when she first started writing them. I don't even know if I can bear to read another one, the characters have gotten so bitter and unpleasant.
Okay - this was the worst Scarpetta book.
Which is tied up in the end, but not in a satisfying way.And my biggest gripe = Scarpetta is attacked (not a surprise - happens a lot) and then we jump to a new chapter where she and Benton are driving along as if no big deal.
Then we go quite a ways more in the book, before Cornwell sums up the attack in a sentence.
Huh?????The book left a bad taste in my mouth
I was particularly disappointed by Lucy; it felt like the author was writing about a character she knew nothing about, could never identify with, and belonged in some silly erotica/wish-fulfillment fantasy novel.
I was terribly sad by the end - not only because of the embarrassing plot (I kid you not: it was a lesbian serial killer with multiple personality disorders, and the whole book is spent trying to convince you her personalities are different people), but because I felt I'd met the author at her worst, that kind of awful first impression you'll try, but never really succeed, forgetting.
In an attempt to revisit an old friend I picked up Predator.
I was sad to see my "old friends" had been replaced by a poor resemblance of themselves.
I hardly recognized the characters as the story was told in a confusing third party narrative making the people dark, depressing and very impersonal.
I'm only half-way through the book and I can honestly say I'm not sure what the story line is!
For the first time ever I'm not finishing a book and I sure don't want to pass the book on to any friends!
Keep the original characters, help them grow as individuals and involve them in a suspenseful story.
- Benton is working on a new project, codenamed PREDATOR that is assessing a killer named Basil.
While Benton is interviewing him, Basil confesses to another murder that he says he was never caught for; the murder of a woman in her Christmas themed shop.- Lucy is dealing with problems of her own (view spoiler)[she has been diagnosed with a benign tumour in her brain that is mimicking the symptoms of pregnancy (hide spoiler)] and she meets a mysterious woman named Stevie, who has mysterious red handprints drawn or tattooed onto her body.- Meanwhile Scarpetta is dealing with a murder victim; a woman has been found with red handprints on her body and she must investigate the crime.- Marino is also having issues; he has received a threatening phone call from someone who called themselves HOG or Hand of God. He strongly suspects one of his work colleagues of somehow hacking into his private work files but cannot prove it.
I've been a Cornwell fan since I read her first book.
I also loved the working relationship they had, and now it seems non-existent.
The thing I've enjoyed in previous Cornwell books was the weay that these three and Scarpetta's male friend, Benton Wesley worked together to solve crimes.
Lucy hates herself, Kay isn't speaking to Benton because he kept Lucy's confidence about a health problem, Marino is whoring after anything with tits and has a love-hate relationship with both Kay and Lucy.
For Cornwell fans, this is a good read.
The problem with this genre is that there are only so many ways to kill a person. The only saving grace is when the characters are delineated with depth and originality, which was only partially true in this book. A mildly surprising epilogue saved this book from a worse rating.
Remember when you could actually read and enjoy the Kay Scarpetta books from Patricia Cornwell? Back when the series started, Kay was human, had a sense of humor, enjoyed cooking, did things normal people do. As the series has gone on, it has gotten darker, weirder (not a word, I know), more ominous, just...horrid. The characters have degenerated into caricatures of their worst selves. The world has become sinister and evil. Honestly, there isn't anything enjoyable about reading these books. Who wants to read an extended description of torture?It makes me remember why I quit reading them a while back.
Να μου πεις, έχουν περάσει και τουλάχιστον εφτά βιβλία από τότε...Στην αρχή θέλει τον χρόνο του το συγκεκριμένο, μέχρι να πιάσεις το νήμα που ενώνει όλα τα στοιχεία και σχηματίζει την υπόθεση.
Πάντως, έχοντας διαβάσει πια πέντε βιβλία με ηρωίδα την Κέυ Σκαρπέττα, έχω βγάλει δύο συμπεράσματα: δεν μπορώ να τη συμπαθήσω με τίποτα, ούτε αυτήν ούτε την ανιψιά της (για την ακρίβεια, δεν έχω αποφασίσει ποια από τις δύο μου σπάει περισσότερο τα νεύρα) και επίσης δεν μπορώ να καταλάβω προς τι τόσος ντόρος γι' αυτή τη σειρά βιβλίων, που μετράει τόσα νούμερα.
Although well into the series of books featuring Dr Kay Scarpetta, this one is genuinely stand-alone, so if the reader has read none of the previous titles there will not be a problem.
For example, the Last Precinct takes up where a previous title finished and having read the previous book helps a lot).Continuing the comparison with The Last Precinct, Predator moves much more rapidly and contains several narrative strands woven together with uncommon skill.
It is not possible to go into detail without spoiling the book for a new reader, but the last quarter should be read with care.
El libro me gustó hasta el penúltimo capítulo. Ese final tan drástico que parece que le falte 1 capítulo hizo que pusiera tan baja las estrellas. Y el final tan abierto! No sé qué le pasó a Patricia en este libro.
I'm listening to this series as audio books- I could never read them- and sometimes if I miss who is speaking I can't tell the main characters from the bad guys.
Kay can't stand Marino, who is suddenly described looking like Paul Teutul instead of a tall Danny Devito, including his new love of motorcycles.
Or with Marino- she feels the need to keep telling him she is in charge and she works for him- which I think he's right- he works for Lucy, and so does Kay. Let's talk about the very confusing mystery in this book for a second.
It was only when I went back to the library and thumbed quickly through the books I hadn't read from around 2003 to now that I realized that one of the books I'd missed had revealed that they had in fact not actually died after all.
After reading this and finding it rather ridiculous, I went back to the library and got the book I almost got instead of this one, Trace.
This is the 14th book from Cornwell in the Kay Scarpetta series.This is a book with multiple plot line disorder in which the author tries to save it with emergency triage at the end leaving the book dead on the table with no one to save it.What a mess.
The ending in which Cornwell tries to tie it all up is a mess in which not all things are explained (red-hand prints) and any inconsistencies in the book are blamed on a killer with multiple personalities.It starts out with a pretty graphic lesbian one night stand by Lucy with a strange girl named Stevie.
I have been reading my way through the Scarpettas, and I have finally bumped into one that was a genuinely decent mystery with a plot that made sense!
That being said, does anyone else get the feeling that Cornwell is working through her own issues with her characters?
I mention this only because my chief complaint with her depictions of Kay, Lucy, Benton and above all, oh my God above all Marino is that she treats the reader as though their actions and reactions make sense to a normal person.
Don't even get me started on Lucy or Benton.And yet I keep reading them.
Well played, Ms. Cornwell.
For many years I was a HUGE fan of Patricia Cornwell.
And then by the time I read Blow Fly, I found myself increasingly disturbed and disgusted with her books and the self-wallowing of her characters.
Gone was the brilliancy and left was the bizarre.
I often wondered what was happening in Cornwell's own life and if she was putting her own issues into the emotional and pyschological pitfalls of her characters.
Gone were the strengths in the characters that made her books so enjoyable.
With the strong interest in reading her newest book set in Dover, DE I decided to go back and catch up on a few books.
I'll never pick up another Cornwell book.
I read the whole damn thing waiting for something to happen or a likeable protagonist or ???
Well, anything to make this the best seller that it is.Nada, nil, nyet, nothing.
Stupid to the nth degree.Now, I love mysteries, which is why I picked up this book.
Huge disappointment.
Scarpetta (the preseumed MC) doesn't factor in much.
So hung up on getting it up it was a total bore.Anyway.
I'd say, don't bother.Another case of a writer who gets any crap sold just because they wrote a book or two that was decent.
I had a hard time getting into this one as I thought I had missed something in the book.
However, once I did get past the first 100 pages, I got into the book and really did enjoy it in the end.
I thought I had missed a book in the series, because Lucy seemed stranger than usual.
The forensic and psychological things presented are very interesting to me though.I just read this again and don't remember reading this the first time.
You would think that I would have because of all the gory parts in this book.
This book was like half a book -- something Cornwell sat down and spewed out over a long weekend or so.
In general, authors would then go back and edit their work, but it appears in this case that her half-baked manuscript somehow made it past all the editorial gatekeepers, straight to hard copy.
I hate how everyone in Scarpetta's life is so dysfunctional, grumpy, and repetitive.
And I hate how Cornwell left us hanging with so many unanswered questions and incomplete plot points (what the heck happened to Joe???).
And I hate that I spent money on this awful book.
I give up. No matter how hard I try I simply do not like the authors writing style!
The Scarpetta books, once so wonderful, have been steadily declining in quality and excitement. I could hardly stay awake.
El mérito de Cornwell, en este sentido, reside justamente en eso: en incorporar al lector, en comprender que no es un experto en las materias que se abordan —aunque no dudo que buena parte de quienes devoran los casos de Kay Scarpetta sean forenses profesionales— y, por lo mismo, en darle la información que se requiere para comprender más o menos de qué va el caso, pero sin excederse.
This is the second Scarpetta book I've read, and while there were some interesting aspects to it - especially a multi-city, multi-character weaving of the narrative together - I found the characters to be colder than I was expecting, and more remote.
Part of this certainly stems from reading the books out of order, and thus missing what I presume is a natural character development path - but in general, characters should be somewhat likable, or compelling, if I'm going to continue picking up a series.
And by that guideline, this book fails - if this were the first Scarpetta novel I'd read, I would not be going back for another.
-(#14 of the Kay Scarpetta Series)-I am scratching my head wondering why the reviews for this book in Amazon.com are terrible.
The characters have new issues to deal with.
Kay and Benton are together but their relationship is strained because he knew about Lucy’s tumor before she did.
He is involved with one of the personalities and is feeding the killer info about Kay, Lucy and Marino.
There is definitely surprise and suspense in this book.
“Something that draws attention away from the central issue.” I enjoyed this book and I like the new path Cornwell has taken the characters on.
Hopefully the others in this series are better, but I must admit that I don't think I'm likely to give them a try.
There just wasn't really anything in this that I liked.Don't get me wrong, it wasn't the worst book I've ever read.
It's the 14th in the series (though they seem pretty standalone), so presumably all the characters that we see have had development in previous books, and if I had read the others maybe I would actually, you know, care about the character's whining and their problems.The writing itself wasn't very good.
I was totally unprepared for how terrible this book was.
The venue for this book is Charleston, Kay moves around more than a military family!
The first thing that gets me is Lucy, sitting a bar getting drunk and picking up, or getting picked up, by a beautiful woman.
There are other things underlying this change but it's an incredibly jarring change in a woman who normally is so much in control.
Then there is Kay, she and Benton always have their ups and downs but this book is more up than down which is a nice change.
The whole book was jarring in how out of character the characters were.
I have read some other Patricia Cornwell books and did not remember them being this bad.
First the writing style was awkward for me.
The omniscient point of view was not enjoyable.
Second she tried to hard to create mystery and suspense.
"Look I found something?" "What is it?""Let's have a talk about our relationship first and I will tell you what I found.""BLAH, BLAH, BLAH.
Hopefully I will figure it out at the end of the book." Lastly, the killer was stupid.
I finished reading the book thinking I most likely will not pick up another one in this series.
The reason why people fell in love with the Scarpetta series was the science and the solving of shocking homicides through the use of analysis and technology. Same premise as CSI. The characters are terrible, CONSTANTLY being unfairly treated by every external figure (press, colleagues, government, etc.) that the interactions are frustrating and annoying. 300 pages and unbelievably fantastical situations for a series that is supposed to be grounded in fact. I was genuine annoyed when the wrap up was barely explained and completely confusing. This is officially my last Scarpetta novel. She's jumped the shark.
I thought there were too many story lines, which was very confusing for me. I still didn't get what did Hog have against those 2 women and little kids to do what he/she did to them. I'm not sure I'll read another Patricia book again anytime soon.
