https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/156618.Heat
Woods is a very prolific writer. His recent work strikes me as formulaic, albeit very readable. I like the Ed Eagle books and the Holly Barker books better than the Barrington series, but that may just be me. All of these strike me as superficial compared to his earlier works, of which this is one. There is a wealth of detail, the plot is clean (it develops much like a police procedural), character development shows a shrewd eye toward human nature, and tension builds right up to the epilogue.
The plot however is a bit over the top, with an ordinary, self-educated man (Jesse) transformed into a kind of superhero by the end.
This version is narrated by Tony Roberts, who does a good job but reads much too slowly for my taste.
(view spoiler)[Later, he is revealed to be a cynical conman shamelessly exploiting people.
Another issue with the plot was this: Jesse's wife had died, although they had a daugher on whom he doted.
(view spoiler)[Eventually, it is revealed that his best friend and former partner, Kip, had adopted her without his knowledge, in part because he and his wife were childless.
This novel is the type you truly cannot put down once you've opened it.Jesse Warden is a wrongly-convicted lawman who gets another chance at freedom by working undercover in the Idaho panhandle.
In a seemingly small town he meets a larger-than-life self-appointed messiah in the name of Jack Gene Coldwater.
But Coldwater has other ideas less than heavenly.
He did his research well, and this is shown in the descriptions of the undercover work Jesse goes through, with a climatic ending.
If you've ready one Stuart Woods book, you've pretty much read them all, although this is one of the few that doesn't feature one of Woods' usual main characters.
Instead, it's about Jesse Warden, an ex-DEA agent who spent years in prison for a murder he didn't do, and is offered the chance at a pardon if he can take down a religious cult who control a small town in Idaho.
It is a typical Woods book, in that Warden meets a young attractive women, sleeps with her a few pages later, and is in a committed relationship with her a few chapters after that.
But the mystery and the action are top-notch and the book is very enjoyable.
At a suggestion of a friend, I started reading Stuart Woods' books from the beginning, after I randomly picked (and read) NY Dead.
She mentioned that Woods often brings back the same characters, so I should read the books chronologically.
For the most part, I have been pretty impressed, and his books have been entertaining.
So I am on a streak with his books that assume (and hope) gets better.I was initially turned off by the author's habit of painting anti-abortion advocates as all wild eyed abortion clinic bombers.
I just never got in to this book, or felt it was anyway believable.
The main character Jesse warden had a great character arc and motivation to get through the book.
Like, at one point Jenny was pregnant with Jesse’s baby and it was a big announcement, but I was waiting at the end of the book for ANY reveal of the baby (there was none.) which makes me wonder if the author just completely forgot about it, or maybe I didn’t notice when the baby was revealed?
The author is really great at describing setting and writing the problems that the main character has to go through.
It just seemed like he did the whole thing perfectly and seamlessly, his character didn’t have much struggle for solving problems.
If he succeeds infiltrating the religious cult and helps the FBI and Justice Dept bring down the leader, Jack Gene Coldwater, he'll earn his freedom.But this operation is riddled with traps.
Firstly, the cult are expecting the FBI to send someone to their town for just that kind of mission.
Secondly, the town police chief is a personal friend of Coldwater, and he has eyes everywhere.Jesse has to somehow work his way into their tight-knit sphere with informers and the danger of being caught at every turn.This is a book leaving you wishing for more.
Jesse finds himself brought out of solitary confinement just as usual, to fight yet another burly inmate.This time however, he is being released to an assistant Attorney General.
Once an agent himself, he had been incarcerated for killing his former partner and stealing money.
His task is to go undercover in a small mountain town to see what is going on.
As Jesse infiltrates the clan of one Gene Cold water and his cronies, he finds danger and deception on a much larger scale.
Can he get the goods on this organization to gain his freedom or will they find him out and kill yet another agent.
To be honest, I first found a Stuart Woods novel on the $6.98 table at B & N and found Stone Barrington a likable if inane character.
When I wanted a mindless read, I would pick up another one until recently when I had decided I could NOT read another description of what Stone, Dino and Viv were eating at Patroon, their favorite restaurant, or details of yet another sexual escapade.
And then I found “Heat” on a “Free” table outside a used bookstore.
Fast paced, exciting, in-depth character development, no dinner details, and no Harlequin narratives - blown away.
Yeah Stuart Woods!!!!! Yet another wonderful book!!!!I do enjoy Stuart Woods' books. They are so readable and engaging. They grab my attention from the beginning and hold it through to the end -- often to the detriment of whatever I was doing before I started reading. Thank you so very much.
Another suspenseful fast paced mystery that has it nailed.I've never read anything by this author that wasn't a five star fire breathing novel jam packed with literary excellence , if you're looking for something to read that'll make you sleep deprived, and mesmerized this Stuart Woods novel is a must read book.i
First of all I was misled on line. Next to the name of the book you'll find (Will Lee Book). I enjoy this series so without hesitation I ordered it. Although curious as to why it was mentioned as a "Will Lee Book," because it isn't, I continued to read. It's a good story. I did like it and was surprised how it ended.
Absolutely loved this book. I have read several Stuart Woods's books and thought they were starting to all blend together, same characters, same, well almost everything. I took a break from reading him and then stumbled across this book. Stayed up late at night just to try and get through it. Really enjoyed it!
Really great book by a favorite authorI’m a Stuart Woods fan and love his Stone Barrington series. I don’t know how I missed this book when it was originally published but I’m SO GLAD I found it now. Great “can’t-put-it-down” book. Different and somehow better than Woods’ other books. Recommended!
Page StopperGrabs your attention on page one and doesn't let up until very end. You want to know the ending but you don't want the adventure to end. Highly recommend this book. Excellent.
I invested 4 hours into this audiobook and I’m too old to invest 7 more. The narrator is irritating and the storyline is bleh. This is my first Stuart Woods book and will likely be my last. Just not my cup of tea, I guess.
Fast moving story; character development rather shallow. A religious cult has a hold on a small Idaho town. The religion is a cover for a ammunition ‘s build up and the leader’s enrichment. Undercover agent literally blows the whole scheme.
Not a Will Lee bookAfter reading the first seven Will Lee books, when the advertisement said book number eight I bought it. Not one character in any of the other books are in this one and I felt taken. Book is ok but I don't recommend it
I love Stuart Woods, but this is one of the best of his books I have read. The story was captivating, a real page turner that I didn't want to put down. The characters are believable and the book although written in 1993 seemed relevant with the current world situation.
Captivating storyThe 28 hours it took me to read this book made a hospital stay almost enjoyable! Thank you again Mr woods. But I need more Stone Barrington.
Great book!Different than most of his novels I have read. Great story and characters and entertained throughout. Would love to see additional story’s like this from him.
Not your typical Stuart Woods' novel, but a pretty good read.
Glad I found something else from Stuart Woods which I completely enjoyed. Stone Barrington is great fun but it's become to formulaic for me.
Excellent!As usual Mr. Woods presents a character with character and enough plot to lead to the conclusion with the right lead.
WowThis book had me on the edge of my seat turning pages feverishly. What a fantastic ending to a great read
Never disappointedWith a Stuart Woods book you are me vCard err disappointed an bbc.co t by is one no exception to the rule! Great, fast read.
BudbarbAs always, Woods weaves a unique tale of mystery and intrigue. Very enjoyable and keeps the reader guessing throughout. Would recommend to my fellow mystery lovers!
A real page turner and very interesting.
Audiobook performed by Richard Ferrone
Entertaining start to finish. Was a hard book to put down, you just wanted to keep reading to see what the next twist or turn would be.
