https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/357933.The_Girl_Who_Owned_a_City
And if people don't like to do things her way they are free to leave.
Actually, after reading this book I think I understand why people back away when I say I'm a Libertarian.
I think I'll just say from now on that I'm "socially liberal and fiscally conservative" so that no one who has read this book will think I am in favor of making small children work at night sentry duty to earn toys.
I read this book in elementary school and loved it.
Even the premise for this book is really unique.
Children often dream of a world without parents and without rules, but this book puts an entirely different spin on that sort of world by making it dangerous and scary.Lisa was such a powerful character, and I really enjoyed how she evolved as a leader.
At the same time, we saw the softer side to her when she interacted with her younger sibling.I won't lie - there are definitely parts to this book that were unrealistic, but it was easy to get pulled in nevertheless, and it's definitely not the first book where we see how children have had to grow up too fast.
Sometimes I think - remember when that girl in that book went to the grocery store and was glad the gang members hadn't taken the medicine, just the potato chips?
Or, remember when that girl from that book had to learn to drive and didn't do so badly and was glad there was gas in the car?
Then I start to think how hard it would be to start over again when all the adults are gone - how to get those oil refineries running again, how to get those cars built at the factories - stuff like that.
I've been looking for this book forever. All I could remember is reading an older book about a city where the adults died and the kids had to survive. Finally found it! I checked this book out over and over and over and over and over from the library when I was in middle school. Loved it. Was addicted to it. Finally found it. So happy!
(And when I saw the author's dedication to 'Lisa and Todd' I knew that a large conceit like super-characterizing your own children would lead to many, many others.)The protagonist, Lisa, is unbelievably prescient, especially in comparison to the other children.
All the kids think and talk and interact like robots.
(Don't compare yourself to the American founders, as in chapter 5, and then set yourself up as a benevolent dictator later in the story.) There are a number of very well-written post-apocalyptic young adult and juvenile novels that are far more worth your time than this one.Try instead: Scott Westerfeld's "Uglies" series, "The Hunger Games" by Suzanne Collins, or even "Gone" by Michael Grant.
Somehow this book lodged in my mind and I only recently got my hands on it again.
The main character can act draconian at times, very my-way-or-the-highway, and I actually remember disliking that when I first read it.
(Most of what I vividly remembered involved fortifying a castle-like structure, raiding a warehouse, and eventually pouring boiling oil on an attacker.)I sought out the book again because I couldn't remember how it ended, and now I've read it again?
Totally improbable, and very funny that apparently even my 9 year old mind wouldn't accept it.Anyhow, I'm torn on the recc.
So, I have given it a 2, overall.This book is why I became interested in dystopian fiction.
When we first meet Lisa, there is mention of how quickly the virus struck - that "last week" she was in class...later details contradict this.Also, while I realize that kids do not really need graphic depictions of the aftermath of society's collapse, it began to bother me, as I grew older, that animals bodies were mentioned, but not those of humans.
If the disease really struck so quickly, where are all of the bodies?
As I have said, I owe this book for introducing me to dystopian works.
Some stories come around and you can’t help but keep reading them. One of those books is The Girl Who Owned a City by O.T. Nelson. It’s an amazingly descriptive story about a world that is only inhabited by kids.  The story starts by 10 year old Lisa, the main character, breaking into a vacant house to steal supplies like food and candles. At first, it just seems like she’s a thief, but you will soon change your mind. She spots a note on the way out written by a father explaining to his sons tha
The story starts by 10 year old Lisa, the main character, breaking into a vacant house to steal supplies like food and candles.
For example, when the most harmful gang around, led by Tom Logan, attacks Lisa’s younger brother, Todd, Lisa knows it’s time to strengthen her defense.
There were tools, books, medicines, clothing, matches, candles, charcoal, flashlights, paper plates, can openers, soap, and much, much more.” All the food and supplies in that warehouse could support the city for years to come.
The last reason I enjoyed reading this book was Lisa’s detailed ideas of turning the high school into a city.
You see right away that the main character Lisa's morals were a little skewed when she refuses to help her friend who is taking care of defenseless and hungry five year old orphans.
She refused to call it "our" city with her friends who were helping her run it, even though she could have never made it without them.
Again, I would find it more exciting if I was younger, but the story needs a little dimension!
It really could have been a great book in the hands of a master dystopian fiction author.
I read this book in junior high and I remember hating to read it because it was required but I secretly loved the story. It made me imagine really awesome stories in my head when I read this wondering what would happen if I had to go through something like this. I think about this book sometimes out of the blue and remember it being really intense. I would love to read this again but I don't want to change the way I think or felt about this book when I was younger.
157 - (last two paragraphs I think) Tom Logan.
He asks who did something (don't want to give out a spoiler for this oh so suspenseful book) to Lisa because he wants to "beat his little head in if I ever catch him".
Tom asks himself the first question.
The closest text is Tom thinking about wishing Lisa hadn't gotten hurt...
even if editions do vary, could not Tom's second thought, in the other reviewer's edition, be that he was the leader and therefore responsible for her death?
The characters were unappealing, the setting was unrealistic, there were many plot holes, the story was boring AND cliché...
Okay, so Nelson did explain that it took weeks for all adults on Earth to be wiped out.
If containing the disease or developing a cure wasn't possible, why was nothing done to prepare the children, who were humanity's last hope?
There is another character, Jill, who like kindergarten teachers, believes in sharing and helping all who are in need of it.
There are times when Lisa's actions contradicted to her ideals.
The other children are flat clichés, so not much more interesting to read.
Or take another case: the novel seems explicitly survivalist, with a strong focus on the children forming militias, arming themselves with guns, setting deadly booby-traps, training attack dogs, and yet there never seems to be a sense of fright or danger: even in supposed clashes with gangs and armies, most injuries are 'off stage' and amount to minor scratches.
We don't want you to eat us!"Mr. Nelson was explicit in his goal of translating the values of Objectivism in terms simple enough for children to understand, and while I actually have no beef with this in itself, in the book this translates to characters simply stating 'morals' outright at different points in the story.
Lisa is a 10 year old girl whose parents were taken by the plague.
Lisa has a 6 year old brother Todd.
Lisa has to get food for Todd and her.
Lisa has to join with the other members of her street to resist the rising power of the near by gangs.I recommend this book because it makes kids try new things.
Give me the matches I’ll light the charcoal.”’I also would recommend this book because it gets rid of parents in a realistic way.
It’s the worst plague in history.”’This book makes kids think in new and creative ways.
This is implying of course that in almost 2 years since the plague, all of the children in that town had starved to death because they had not figured out what they needed to do to survive.
This was truly the only point in the story where I felt any emotion, because it made me sad to think that those children had suffered and died.So where are the dead bodies of the 12+ crowd to begin with?
I see in searching for this book today, another author may have taken the lead from Terry and done just that.
The Girl who owned a city definitely influenced two of my own books; Castle Lake and Fun City.
I read The Girl Who Owned a City when I was about 13, and it's amazing how the book stuck with me after all those years.
I didn't write Castle Lake until I was 42, and Fun City when I was 43!
Terry Nelson books holds up today as well as it did back in the summer of '78!
The Girl Who Owned a City was the one I remembered best -- or at least remembered LIKING best.
In the process of locating the book, I learned that its author was a big Ayn Rand follower, and his intent in writing TGWOAC was to explain Objectivism to kids.
This delivered in stiff speeches and bedtime stories, shoehorned into the narrative about as gracefully as Rand herself did in her "novels." It was kind of amusing to witness the propaganda, and the book is thankfully short, hence two stars instead of one...
I had a lot of issues with it, but I also kind of feel the same as Lisa, how (view spoiler)[she doesn't want to share her food, she doesn't want to have to just give it away.
I agree that people should be working for it, and why should she give it up just because others are starving?
As she said, 'they'll just starve after the food's gone anyway, so why should I share?' (hide spoiler)] I like how selfish she is, I think it's actually a thing.
I don't know if I could do the same, but I agree with it.
NOTE: They actually have a television show with this very concept these days - 2007It worked for the Lord of The Flies….but can it work when this burgeoning society is led by a selfish little bitch named Lisa?
If the morons and cretins that surrounded her could only come to grips with the fact that Lisa is probably a far shittier dictator than Tom Logan, this book would have some form of redemptive worth in it, especially when they inevitably revolt and understandably commit an act of blessed regicide on this deserving beotch.
Not that I necessarily have anything against objectivism, but from the first page you can tell pretty quickly that a) the book is written badly, b) it's trying to force a viewpoint across to the reader and c) this would make a great SyFy movie.So, yeah, I pretty much hated everything.
Here's an example, which comes after Lisa is trying to figure out a way to keep the little kids happy with their toys.
Before Lisa has a philosophical awakening, all the kids seem to just be running around trying to get edible food before it goes bad.
And I like it when people go all survivalist in cities.
Lisa is the main character of the book, and she is 10 years old.
But that’s what makes the story interesting.Everyday, Lisa will have to search for food.
Every kid in the city had taken most of the food from the grocery stores near them, and you might think there's food everywhere!
Lisa would thinking of her parents everyday, and the parties they had when all the grown ups were still alive, but what keeps her strong is her brother, Todd.
But driving, that's for grown ups, not 10 year old kids.
Read the book to learn more about Lisa’s adventure and her attempt to get her city back!One of the author’s purposes for writing this book was to teach some small life lessons to young children around the ages of 9-12.
On pages 197, 198, and 199, Lisa proves this by lecturing Tom.Another thing the author is showing people how smart kids can really be.
I think the book was creative because of the theme and the setting, along with the things that the children came up with as defense plans and ways to get food, etc.
They are baffled by the world without adults and keep asking things like, what happens if she runs a red light?
The author wrote the book for his own children, and apparently didn't realize that kids are able to pick up on some level of subtlety and characterization.
One of my students interjected, during one of Lisa's many reveries, "She gets interrupted a lot while she thinks, doesn't she?"As I said, I don't think the kids will notice the political dogma that was so outstanding to me as an adult reader.
The kid in me still loves this book, but the older me isn't sure how much of that is genuine adoration and how much is just the rose-tinted glasses that color memories from that time in my life.I first read this book in fifth or sixth grade, I think, and at the time it was exactly the sort of thing that appealed to me.
It was pretty cool.Rereading this book last year, I remembered why I was so fond of it.
It's not like I went out and demanded that the children of my neighborhood declare me their unimpeachable leader (I kinda ignored that part of the story when I was a kid).
This book is about a girl named Lisa and her brother Todd.
Read this book and find out.I recommend this book to kids or adults over 10, because not only is it a little bit hard to understand, it also shares moments that have to do with blood and gore.
Four instance, "The alcohol drizzled out of her arm along with the red and watery blood." This is why this book can be a little to deep for younger children.
But other than that, this book hit the spot and kept me on my toes the whole time I was reading it.
Read this book back in high school.
As a class assignment I thought this book was dumb.
So I finally ordered the book and sat down to read it again.
It is amazing how one child can come up with the things Lisa has to continue to live.
I am having my daughter read this book so she can see what may/could happen and that you always need to be prepared and level headed if something ever comes about.
My daughter and her video games are not the world.
Hopefully this will make her see that things are real and can happen.
This book is about a girl named lisa who lives alone with her brother Tom. When she was young her mother and her father died so they are living a terrible life.
I will recommend this book to people who like violence because in the middle of the book Lisa gets shot.
I'll give this book a big 5 because you can really find out the ways to survive at a time like that.
And you can also zoom in on the part where Tom and Lisa are struggling to get things done.
I bought this book at a funky, tiny used bookstore in like, baltimore, when I was a kid, and it quickly became The Greatest Book I Had Ever Read.
I liked any book where the kids are forced to be independent and act like adults, and a plague that kills all the grown-ups was just the ticket!
It is satisfying to see so many people on here who dug this book too, since i had never heard of the book before, and frankly never heard of it since I read it...
apparently the author wrote this book to indoctrinate young minds to the philosophies of Ayn Rand~!
I would give this book 4 out of 5 stars because it explains there life in a not so normal way.
In this story I like how it had good details and adjectives.
Another is “she came recklessly beside him”.One of my favorite things about this book is that it has good descriptions.
I like how it has good description because it gives you a good understanding of the story in different ways.
One way in the story that has good description is “everyone got Happier & happier and the king couldn’t complain because he got richer & richer”.
Young readers will turn pages to see what happens next in this post-plague, children-rule-the-world society, where one girl, Lisa, emerges as leader thanks to her resourceful thinking, bold actions, and persuasive personality.
The children do everything from drive cars to perform minor surgery.
They even defend their city using military force (beware of children using guns and dropping boiling oil on the faces of their foes).As the adult that I am, sure, I detect the lameness in some of the writing - it's no Newbery Medal winner - but hey, for what it is, it's a good read that many will enjoy.Teachers, if your students have studied types of government in their social studies classes, it might be fun to ask them what kind they think this children's society is.
