https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1031322.War_Against_War
Humphrey Cobb, author of Paths of Glory, said that "The only effective anti-war propaganda that I know is photographs of butchered bodies-the more horrible the better." Ernst Friedrich provides that requirement in War Against War which should be able to slap the militarism out of many a hardened patriot.
Friedrich serves as compiler and editor, allowing the photographs to serve their own ends coated by sparse text in four languages and arranged in crescendo from childhood toy soldiers thru poor debilitated veterans and the untouched plutocrats-mashed faces, ripped limbs, sunken trenches, bones and graves.
Anybody who has ever thought of joining the Armed Forces to fight in a war should read this book. It will turn your stomach.
This book by Ernst Friedrich is a collection of photos from the Great War, ranging in character from the somber to the horrific.
Prosthetics were in the stone age at this time, so there are images of men with metal claws for hands, one of whom is working at a lathe/grindstone of some kind in a photo after returning from the war, with his own sorry state juxtaposed to some member of royalty who missed out on the war and is playing tennis on a clay court in an idyllic setting.This book is definitely an emotional roller coaster, especially considering I'm a vet (though of nothing as brutal or total in its destructive nature as the Great War).
Friedrich was one of many socialist pacifists, who hoped the tragedies of the First World War sufficed to ensure that it had been the last.
He initially expressed the hope that the warmongers would eventually kill themselves off, a cynical optimism consistent with his socialist ideals, but he admitted the class structure prevented this governing tier from suffering the true experience of war.
The word "socialist" today elicits images either of the Soviet experiment or of Nazis, Islamists and anyone else Middle America has been told to fear.
The pre-WWII German socialists were divided and unsuccessful, but they were the number one enemies of the Nazis and most likely would have been disgusted by the Soviet bloc.
Overwhelming pictorial essay on the horrors of the Great War, compiled by the proprietor of a German anti-war museum ransacked by the Nazis. This is not war porn -- it's about the pointless suffering of war casualties and their survivors. His point is that this level of suffering is simply not imaginable to the innocents who buy their children war toys, then send those children proudly off top the front. He complied this books in hopes of educating such people, to prevent the next one from happening. Well, he can say he tried.
The photography in this book does more than many volumes of words can do to convey the horrors of World War One. One of the great anti-war treatises of modern times.
Ernst byl solidni pacifista, coz je s podivem, protoze to byl nemec a u Pacifiku nikdy nezil, hihi. Jeho Valka proti valce je pusobiva "fotoreportazova" valba i po sto letech, a to i prestoze jsem jiz videl daleko otresnejsi veci nez masovy hroby a obesence - treba papriku v Bille za 90 kc, nebo vyliteho jaggermeistera...Sarkasticke popisky u fotek to vytahuji na pet hvezd, ale jelikoz tam zaroven byly vsechny tanky vybuchly nebo rozbity, musim ubrat na ctyri.https://libcom.org/forums/history/war...
(dystansując się od wszechobecnego komunizmu mogę dać 5)
"Le facce delle vittime [...] restano l'unica verità della guerra." - Gino Strada, Introduzione, p. 7
Raccolta fotografica a tutto campo sulla prima guerra mondiale e i suoi effetti, creata del pacifista Ernst Friederich per sostenere la sua causa.Le didascalie, a volte pompose ma sempre accorate, servono a contestualizzare immagini violentissime (i volti sfigurati dei feriti sono difficili da sostenere), desolanti o a volte ironiche e per togliere ogni alone di gloria e rispettabilità alla retorica della guerra. Un'opera singolare, un inno alla pace e un'interessante raccolta di immagini con qualità di stampa purtroppo pessima.Introduzione di Gino Strada di Emergency.
Reading this book, which is published in German, English, French and Dutch together, and looking at the pictures, it is easy to understand why this book was taken out of circulation or not published in many countries for a long time. It shows the horrors of the First World War. Not only by pictures of the fron, but also of soldiers of various nations who have been disfigured in horrible ways.
