https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/148554.Return_to_Laughter
An absolutely stunning book, which I read on the high recommendation of Michael Taussig in I SWEAR I SAW THIS. Here is a novel utterly neglected by so-called literary specialists, one that belongs on those "100 Best Novels of the Century" lists. Put it on the shelf next to HEART OF DARKNESS and MY LIFE IN THE BUSH OF GHOSTS.

one of the most insufferable reading experiences of my life. Could not wait to get it over with. I fully understand Bohannon's decision to write this as a novel. What I don't understand is who/what gave her the impression she was an able storyteller. The prose is absolutely horrible. The final chapter is quite nicely-done, though, and is the only one in which Bohannon's insights and philosophizing seem valuable. Regardless, I understand why this is of value to anthropology students, though I find it hard to believe there aren't more entertaining ways to learn about fieldwork.
I didn't much care for the attempt to rationalize away cruelty, but I liked the bits in which the women made a spirited defense of polygyny. People tend to assume that women won't approve of polygyny, but the Tiv women argue the advantages to the women, which are often ignored.
I've read this book three times in classes, but I still love it. As a bigger fan of literature than non-fiction, this book was perfect for me, because it is a true story told very fancifully. Though there is some question of how much this approach affects the anthropological value of the text, I think it is a brilliant way to introduce students to the world of anthropology.
This is a book that I read in 1975 which inspired me to join the Peace Corps as a young woman. For Christmas my husband searched out of print books and found a copy for me. I read it again and still loved it.
This was an excellent book. Though it is fiction, it is based on Bohannon's actual experiences doing anthropological fieldwork. Through reading this, I really feel like I have some sense of what it was like for her living with the Tiv. Absolutely fascinating. I highly recommend!
I love the concept of magic and witchcraft in medicine. It helps to keep a perspective on our own ideas of infallible medicine and killer "germs."
I found this anthropological memoir while researching for my latest writing project on Realigning Culture and was mesmerized by both Bohannan's adventure and her journey of discovery. The reader is drawn into what it might have been like to be an Oxford trained anthropologist living with a primitive African tribe while learning as much about oneself and one's own culture as the one under study.
I read this for a college class in 1976 or so. It remains with me to this day and shapes how I read newer anthropology memoirs or novels.
Not a fabulous work of fiction, but an incredible look at living in an African village tribe from the standpoint of the cultural anthropologist.
A vivid and dramatic account of the profound change experienced by an American anthropologist in her first year as an intimate of a primitive bush tribe in Africa, it provides deep insights into the indigenous culture of West Africa, the subtle web of tribal life, the power of the institution of witchcraft.
Primarily, however, it is a classic story of the outsider caught up and deeply, personally involved in an alien culture - "the first introspective account ever published of what it's like to be a field worker among a primitive people."This was a question on an epic take-home-exam in my Theater History I class taught by the inimitable John Wilson at Cornish College of the Arts.

She makes mistakes, some silly, like undermining the chef 19s authority from the very second day by asking the man he put to guard her to go away and let the people come to her.
She makes friends among the tribes people, children and women.
It is the laughter of people 1Cwho all know that they build on shifting sand (and) have yet the courage to build what they know will fall 1D, 1Cwho value love and friendship and plenty, who have lived terror and death and hate 1D.
I really disliked this book and certainly would not have finished it if I weren't reading it for class; I feel kind of like I wasted my time by finishing it anyway.
On one hand, I kind of admire and respect Bohannan for being willing to portray herself as so stubborn and self-centered and spoiled by privilege.
I get that this very subjective approach is part of what makes the book so revolutionary for its time, but I feel like it goes too far, emphasizing the narrator's reactions over the lived realities of those around her and making it seem as though her experiences matter more than theirs.
It's quite interesting to watch her attempt to reconcile her Western habits with those of the 'primitive' Tiv society--I especially enjoyed the bit where she explained adapting the time on her watch to that of the schedule of a Tiv day; for example, since her day began a roughly 7am in her home culture relative to the sun's position in the sky, she made sure her clock said 7am when the Tivs rose with the rooster's morning crow as the sun began to rise.Very interesting read.
In the book, we find her struggling against a deteriorating sense of cultural superiority that arises as she confronts and is forced to concede, both privately and publicly, her own ignorance and "stupidity" in a culturally "alien" world.
Inevitably, it is her fear of losing touch with the integrity of her own cultural identity that blinds her to the cultural "truths" she demands from the people she objectifies as the subject of her "scientific" inquiry (evidence of the limits of "scientific objectivity").
At the same time, she is a complex and likable character, as insightful as she is blind.

This is an anthropological novel that is based upon one anthropologist’s study and first year in the field with a remote African tribe, the Tiv, and the exploration of witchcraft within the culture. This fictional approach to anthropology, portrays human dimension, recounting an anthropologist’s failures and triumphs in the field, and how she has to adapt to this new environment. Although it is fiction, it relates very well to the challenges that many anthropologists must face and undergo through their own research. I think it portrays the life and challenges that we all have to face as anthropologists.
قد يكون تقييمي قاسي لأني أمقت الروايات بشكل لا يعلمه إلا الله ولكن الحاجة للتعرف على ثقافة النيجر أحالتني إلى هذا الكتابهنا تقوم الكاتبة بسرد روايتها المبنية على رحلة قامت بها في الستينات لدراسة قبيلة نيجيرية تسمى قبيلة التيف وتسرد في الرواية ملاحظاتها وتجربتها الشخصية مع القبيلة من عدة محاور كالدين والاقتصاد والزواج والموت والسحر والمرض عمومًا، الرواية لا بأس بها إن كان لديك وقت تنثره على ٣٠٠ صفحة
Written by a real anthropologist, this book is about a fictional anthropologist on her first assignment in the field. She arrives in an unnamed African country to learn the language and customs of the people she's studying. Her values, prejudices, and principles all come into play as she tries to be culturally sensitive but not lose her sense of self in this foreign environment. Interesting & thought provoking.
A fictionalized account of an anthropologist's (Laura Bohannon (pen name Elenore Smith Bowen)) time in a remote African village during the first half of the 20th century. Chronicles not only her observations, but how her experiences challenged her own beliefs and ethical system. I found it well written, especially coming from someone who did not intend to be a novelist. Some of the specific issues may seem out of date now, 60+ years later, but the big issues are timeless.
Although the book was slow at times, I really enjoyed Bowen's insight to the world of pre-American Africa. Focusing more on concepts than details allowed her to capture the spirit of each individual. I wish that more travelers would follow her example and document their findings in such a fun and concise way.
This book is an account of the life of an anthropologist within a remote african tribe. It is at the same time very funny and also instructive, to see that what we consider as 'normal' and 'universal' is maybe not the case. The writer is Laura Bohannan; the name of Elenore Smith Bohanan is a 'nom de plume'.
This book was definitely a labor of love. It has a slow start, in fact I found I did not like the anthropologist's attitude but slowly I found myself seeing the people through her eyes. I was frustrated by her desire to help but not bring change to these people. It was the culture shock without the shots!
This is fascinating reading about the intersection of two cultures. Anyone who has lived in a very foreign culture will enjoy this book. It is a novel in the technical sense of the word, but in essence, it is non-fiction.
This book is really fun-you don't have to love anthopology to enjoy this story. It's about a woman who goes to live in the African brush in the 1960's for a year. Plenty of witch doctors and inter-village drama. The writer is fairly honest about what she goes through in this whole experience.
Exceptional.
http://www.goodreads.com/review/list/...#
Gives an insight on the struggles, obstacles and strange situation you could face as an anthropological fieldworker. I recommend it!
