https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/405541.Une_Semaine_de_Bont_
Very interesting look at surrealistic expression: let me with a feeling of disquiet mixed with confusion - which is exactly what the images are crafted to do.
Max Ernst presents an early graphic novel. It's a cross between the Terry Gilliam "Monty Python" animations, William Burroughs, and that dream you can't quite remember from when you had the flu. Highly recommended.
I would have first read it decades ago and found it then strange and wonderful and bizarre, and reading it again, felt similarly, though I may have "understood" it differently, maybe "better".This text now reads to me like a very Freudian study of dream images, with lots of animals, sex, some violence, always bizarre.
One section is described as a "visual poem" but it feels like all of it could maybe be described that way.This is an art collection and a graphic novel, a commentary on Victorian life and what is repressed beneath carefully constructed images of gentility and upper class style.
-Lion-headed men in military garb scribble mysterious edits.
Victorian women sprouting dragon wings engage in secret trysts.
Sparrow-headed creatures carry off a trussed-up young girl.
-Max Ernst seamlessly collaged together these surreal fantasias from 19th century engraved illustrations.
Like all graphic novels, the story happens in the margins between the images.
Though in this case, you may find the margins unusually wide.
-Available as a handsome and inexpensive paperback, do yourself a solid and grab this before it becomes a pricey rarity like the other Ernst collage novels.
Where are you going ibis-headed girls? Do not slumber too deeply on these shores where waves lick the very edge of the bed-covers, and half-seen figures spin stilettos in the articulated anatomical-manual rib cages.(I have a love of Max Ernst's simplicity and image-burning power that allows this collage-novel to transcend my utter bafflement at most of its contents. I shall mull it over, then, and over, and over, this lovely perplexing surrealist coffee-table comic-book.)
What you'd get if Edward Gorey, Nick Bantock, Maxfield Parrish, Botticelli, and M.C. Escher met in a frightening dreamworld populated with Victorian women and dragons and tempests.
I picked this up at a used book sale, remembering it touted as an "early experimental comic," but (pant pant) I might need to see a psychologist after paging through it.Gotta love the inscriptions found in used books, though: "J'ai tombe dans les pommes.
Laissez les bons temps rouler pour touts temps.
Ton ami, H.L." (My translation: I have fallen in the apples [fainted].
Let the good times roll forever.)If anyone needs me, I'm still digging myself out of the apples.
Disturbing, confusing and beautiful. This Is the first time that A Week of Kindness as been collected into a single volume, at last! The collages are a delight to the eye, Max Ernst is definately at his peak here.Highly recommended.
Kind of reminded me of why bellocq's pictures are more important becaues the women's heads are scratched out. It has an external violence to it, a perpetrating subconcious that is instigating an uncalled for violence. That's pretty much what this book is, a symbol laden clusterfuck, heavy on the fuck.this one is Bellocq
Bizarre series of collages, divided into sections for each day of the week, with corresponding elements. Most sections have some sort of narrative, kinda, if you squint. In "Understanding Comics" Scott McCloud calls it an early experimental comic. Aside from all that, there are some haunting and beautiful images here. I especially like Monday (water).
Un po' troppo perso nel suo trip esoterico, per i miei gusti. Surrealista è surrealista, ma i quadri di Ernst sono più lisergici. Interessante l'ultimo romanzo, Una settimana di bontà, senza didascalie, dove mostri e chimere affollano stanze borghesi in mezzo a divani e lampadari pomposi.
Just the idea of a "Surrealistic Novel in Collage" is enuf for me. Add Ernst's delicate touch & it's even better. Ultimately, though, I have to admit to getting a little bored by the technical uniformity of the prints used - even w/ Ernst's careful recycling.
Individually the collage images are great fuel for thought or dreams. Taken all together, they are less interesting. Still, brilliant for its era.
Tre "romanzi per immagini" che Ernst ottenne ritagliando e incollando illustrazioni di vecchi feuilleton e - a volte - inserendo didascalie evocative.Surrealismo a ruota libera in fumetto senza parole che spesso offre immagini bellissime nel loro essere sorprendenti, minacciose, sensuali o comiche. Da sfogliare mille volte.
Sky bought this for me a few weeks ago - lovely Surrealist collage story by Max Ernst
aggressively dreamlike, with a strong sense of theme -- creepy, romantic, and bittersweet.
THIS IS ALL UP ON MY COFFEE TABLE SO HARD YOU WOULDN'T EVEN BELIEVE IT
My only regret is that I didn't have this book as a child. As such, if I have a child of my own, or I foster a 6 year old from a wartorn country, they'll know about this.
absolutely positively fascinating.
A source of Terry Gilliam's genius, this is simply a book of collages, surreal in nature that make poignant observations on things we take too seriously.
Why don't I own a copy of this yet?
Definitley one of the most delightful and bizarre reading (?) experiences I've had in a while. Collage + people with bird heads is always a winning combination if you ask me.
was not exactly light summer reading but i could not put it down
medallions
If I had a budget, this would be my breakout experimental film. Great stuff!
Most of the collages are based on illustrations cut from racy French novels, some of which look like they'd be a lot of fun to read.
Bedroom floors become oceans, or oceans become bedroom floors.Ernst's original French text is present, along with an English translation.
There is also an informative introduction, in English.I read -- no, I looked at -- this book just before going to sleep, on about 10 occasions over the past few weeks.
It seemed to make my dreams much stranger and more intense, though they had nothing to do with the images in the book.
This is before the days of Adobe Photoshop, yet it looks utterly flawless in its technical execution.The images of this book are so weird yet captivating and hard to classify.
Each chapter of the book follows a day of the week and some sort of theme (mud, water, fire, etc) in the images.
What do these images mean?
Nobody can give a precise answer and that is part of the appeal of this book.Also take heed - this can be considered an early graphic novel.
Its enigmatic meaning is part of its appeal.
Max Ernst is a recent favourite. He has brought my perception back around to collage and bricolage as the ultimate time-withstanding arts. I would love to see a graphic novel in collage today. There is something about blending visual realities that really emphasises the dream/life blur in these images. I find myself wondering what elements were added (it's not always obvious to me). What constitutes the dream? What the subconscious? Come for the proto-graphic novel credentials, stay for the 'cool tattoo' inspirations.
The startling images in this "surrealistic novel in collage" hold a strange power, as though they could inspire hundreds of Weird and Fantasy stories (and did with China Mieville's latest). You can buy a copy of this used for less than $5, and the book will outlive you and be appreciated by future generations. Ernst combines the classical sublime of Gustav Dore with the fantastical irreverence of Banksy. And where else are you going to see the Victorian subconscious bubble over in surrealist, nightmarish glee?
Gerçeküstücü Ressam Max Ernst 1934 yılında kolaj resimlerinden oluşan bu romanı yayınlamış. İlk yayınlandığında yüksek bir beğeni kitlesi yaratmış ve bir uyarıcı olmuştur. Dönemi ve ressamların resimlerine ulaşılabilirliği baz alınınca böylesi bir kitabın ilgi çekmesi ve dönemine göre sıradışı sanat anlayışı ile görünürde olması anlaşılır.
This is one of the first art books that ever had influence on me. It made me interested in collage I had a profound effect on my career choice of graphic design. Apparently he made these collages well sick in bed in the hospital, they have a dark and creepy undertone but are also wildly beautiful.
