https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41021698-the-liar
The novel follows Adrian wisecracking and scheming his way first through public school (where he develops an obsessive crush on a class-mate) and then through Cambridge, where, among other things, he forges a Dickens manuscript, strikes up a friendship with a very colourful professor (the brilliant Donald Trefusis) and gets involved in an espionage story of sorts.
The latter sub-plot is a bit dodgy, but the rest of the book is superb -- a delightful mix of great characters (someone introduce me to a real-life Adrian and Trefusis, please), brilliant dialogue, dexterous verbal games, highbrow literary references, filthy humour, outrageous gayness and, yes, some mystery, too.
This debut novel concerns a young lad at a prep school, who later (or is he lying?) becomes a street prostitute and then, under the tutelage of his supremely arch and worldly mentor at Cambridge, becomes involved in an international espionage drama, which turns out to be not at all what it seems – more than once.Although Fry writes some sharp and funny dialogue, this book never really decides what it’s supposed to be: the coming of age story of an uncertain gay boy?
A bittersweet commentary on street life?
Who says you can't read smut and improve your vocabulary at the same time? Although I'm not sure how well "bottomite" will serve at Scrabble...
Fry makes a big show of asking--and pointedly not answering--big questions about artifice and authenticity in society and human behavior...but guards himself always with the insinuation that he is only asking--and not answering--as a joke.There was one--ONE--passage in which Fry appeared to write with any genuine heart, and this at the very end and in the voice of a nearly forgotten side character who was barely introduced and whose relationship to the main character and relevance to the story was hastily (and unsatisfactorily) justified hundreds of pages prior: Jenny, one of two perfunctory female love interests of the smotheringly homosexual Adrian."I don't think you quite believe that women exist.

Took a while to get into but very funny!
"Not one word of the following is true." Stephen Fry started out his book with this proclamation.
I've always loved British Humor and quite frankly, I've always liked Stephen Fry so I had great expectations for this book.
But the real treasure in this book is the conversations.
The conversations are so smart, so witty, so ingeniously hilarious, so lip-smackingly spectacular that no one but Stephen Fry can pull this off.
It's rather quite funny that this book is called "The Liar", because Stephen Fry uses these lies to tell the truth, well, the truth about lies.
I find it fitting that I started my reading challenge with Mr. Fry and am closing it out with one of his books.
For a debut novel this is remarkable but then again so is the man that wrote it.
Which to me reinforces the veiled autobiographical nature of it.If you want a fun romp with a thriller basis this book is for you at least until it switches genres.
Come for the Fry and stay for the brilliant one liners and you'll be happy.
Come for the spy novel and you'll be sorely disappointed.
“Not one word of the following is true.” This book was a total mess spanning more than one timeline, without making you feel as if you realized that, because you didn’t, or you did too late. And you realized too late that the idea behind it is much farther than the humour and the ‘game’. I tell you, this book is a chronic liar too.Stephen Fry’s genius is sprayed everywhere. In every page throughout this book. From the character development and the plot twists and the humour and the smart dialog
This book was a total mess spanning more than one timeline, without making you feel as if you realized that, because you didn’t, or you did too late.
Humour, intelligence, mystery, romance, erotic parts & hilarious sexual jokes, marvelous lies that I suppose everyone actually believed, freakin’ psychological depth, the goddamn plot that was revealed afterwards, practical slice-of-life parts, a not-so-typical protagonist that everyone is supposed to dislike for his lies and lack of sympathy but in the end is neither the protagonist nor the antagonist.
One might never reveal one's true identity, the yearnings and cravings of one's innermost self, even to the most intimate circle of family and friends; never really speak the truth to anyone.
About 40 pages into the book that all started to matter les, because I was fascinated by the protagonist Healey.
In that way the writing style is very fitting for the book, and might have been a conscious choise of Stephen Fry. This book talks very easily about homo-erotic themes, which was refresing to me.
I did not come across many books that take such sexual themes in the matter of fact way this book does yet.
This manifest in the book in a story that is hard to follow because characters make quick illogical decisions.
Love love love Stephen Fry but this one was a little hard to follow. I think I got 90% of the story but there were some very confusing bits. Even so, his writing is wonderful.
Part of the fun of realizing that a novel's narrator is unreliable is that the whole structure of the book becomes a puzzle—which are the bits that we ought to believe?
Is Fry aiming for a certain effect, or is this just a lazily tossed-off first novel which fails to hang together only because its author failed to care?
It is also possible that I was desperate to read some meaning into a hopelessly shallow text.(view spoiler)[The titular liar is generally taken to be Adrian Healey, but could just as easily be Donald Trefusis with his Mendax (Latin for lying) device.
Adrian, Fry's out-of-touch, flamboyant, attention-seeking miscreant of a protagonist, is one of the most wonderfully amiable and relate-able characters in modern literature, because we don't like to think he is.
Adrian - or perhaps Fry - exposes us as sad, pathetic people who feel, know, that they simply aren't as interesting as they'd like to be.
His habitual lying revolves around himself and his experiences; he says what he wants people to know, and how he wants them to think of him.
How many new-age college girls are spontaneously lesbian, vegetarian whale-lovers after their 18th birthday?
CD irgendwann dachte, ich hätte eine wichtige Passage übersprungen, so wenig schien mir das plötzlich zum Rest zu passen.
(Bei einem Buch hätte man die Chronologie der Kapitel anhand der Jahresangaben nochmal nachschlagen können.) Aber anbetrachts des Titels und des ersten Satzes (sinngemäß "Nichts, was hier steht, ist wahr") könnte auch das einfach eine weitere Geschichte sein.
Ich ziehe ein nochmaliges Hören in Betracht, was mich nochmal in den Genuss der verrückten Ideen des auf eine äußerst nonchalante Art charmanten Arthur Healey bringen würde.
Oder ich lese das Buch auf Englisch, v.a. wegen der unzähligen Wortspielereien, die im Original bestimmt besser zur Geltung kommen.
This isn't something I would've sought out to read, but seeing as I like Stephen Fry and came across this sitting neglected on a library shelf, I figured I'd give it a go. All in all, it was entertaining, and a fast read. It's a bit all over the place, and definitely trying to sound funny and smart, and begging the questions of what isn't a lie and who isn't a liar?
Almost every reader will see some of their own foibles in him at some point in the text, which can make for some uncomfortable reading moments.
There are allusions galore in this novel, probably more than I have ever encountered in one text.
They are set off by italics until the subplot and main plot connect up, and I thought that it was a detraction from the text, weakened it almost like Fry did not trust the characters he had created on their own merits, but rather had to make them interesting by inserting them into a spy thriller novel.
I need to start by saying that I think this man is a God, which does seem to be the standard opening play in any discussion of Stephen Fry by at least one person in the room.
If, in this case, that person needs to be me, well, so be it.
It pains me to say it, but it’s done now.The best bit was when the professor caught the student at plagiarism.
But these bits were too infrequent.Like I said, this was his first novel – there are others and I will get to them eventually.
If I hadn't read "Moab is my Washpot" before reading "The Liar", I would probably have enjoyed it more.
As it is, this book now seemed to be an odd mix of two separate books: an addition to Fry's school years autobiography, and a camp espionage caper.
Not unlike Oscar Wilde, the author sprinkles bon mots throughout the text.
The recondite (!) vocabulary is sometimes exhilarating, sometimes tiring, typical for the "Look mama, no hands.." mentality of a new author keen to prove his virtuosity.
On the whole, a bit unbalanced (the espionage story is pretty weak), but with beautiful descriptions of the sufferings of young Stephen.
זהו סיפורו של אדריאן, בחור שמעביר את חייו בפנימיה, בקיימבריגד' ובעולם בכלל באמצעות חן אישי ושקרים, הוא פוגש בשלב כלשהו פרופ' מתוחכם לאנגלית ויחד הם נוגעים לא נוגעים באיזו פרשת ריגול וזה בערך מה שניתן לספר. פריי, כמו בספרים מאוחרים שלו, משחק בין הזמנים קווי העלילה, מסווה את הדמויות עד הרגע האחרון ומפציץ ברפרנסים לתרבות גבוהה ונמוכה.אז הספר משעשע, סוחף, מעניין וגם מרגיז כי כולו שקר על שקר על שקר.זה לא הספר הכי טוב שלו. "עושים היסטוריה" הוא למעשה שכלול של הספר הזה, אבל "לא הכי טוב" של פריי זה עדיין נהדר.
Brilliant and funny as Fry can be, it was also hard to follow as the timeline is all over the place. But don’t fret, the journey is quite worthy!
Fry bezit een benijdenswaardige combinatie van humor en eruditie die ik onweerstaanbaar vind.
Het is een combinatie die voor mij het meest tot uiting komt buiten zijn rol als acteur/komiek en auteur.
Het leidde tot enkele favoriete scènes, waarover meer bij een ander bericht/boek.
Ook daar schreeuwt elke pagina “Kijk, ik werd geschreven door een hoogbegaafde met gevoel voor humor”, en het werkt enkel in stukken en brokken, in apart geselecteerde beschrijvingen en (vooral) puntige dialogen, maar het boek, het verhaal als geheel, is niet boeiend.
I adored Adrian from the first, laughed out loud about 50 % of the total time I spent reading this book (which amounts to little over five or six hours, as I ripped through it).
But if you are open to being taken on rather a wild ride, can handle being fooled eyes open about 50 times throughout the book, enjoy character-based novels and particularly the kind of protagonists who struggle to find a place in the world and frankly are rather sure there isn't a place for them to find at all, and are not afraid of terribly dirty, terribly intelligent, terribly British jokes, then by all means, read it!
The first half of the book deals with the protagonist's teenage years which are quite bizarre but rather interesting. After that the story turns into some weird crime-murder-something I didn't quite grasp. Also the change happened so quickly that I wondered whether I had skipped some tracks but I hadn't. So first part good, second part bleh.Apart from that the use of words is wonderful and original, I had to marvel at quite a few sentences.
I loved how the book was a-chronological and how there are small nuances of each character brought out. Humour is not the only highlight that Stephen Fry has brought out here - it's the character sketch of Adrian! And I could relate to him beyond words :)
It would all be too too and so very very.…he had read and absorbed more than he could understand, so he lived by pastiche and pretence.The story follows young Adrian Healy from English boarding school through the fictional St. Matthew’s College, Cambridge, with quite a few detours along the way.
He is, as far as we can tell (see the next paragraph) happily gay, flamboyant, and caught up in unrequited love; the secretive activities of English boarding schools, often played for horror in other tellings, is told here as the playful, cute, and mostly healthy antics of teenagers.
Written absolutely amazingly!The story keeps you entertained and leaves you, well, wondering what the hell is true and what was a lie. I'd strongly suggest reading this book before reading Stephen Fry's memoirs as he does use some of his own experiences and it taints the story slightly - or at least it did for me! Learn from my mistakes...read this one first!Even with the above mentioned slip, mine not the author's, I absolutely love it!
So, I didn't actually finish this. I love Stephen Fry, but this book was a chore. And life is too short to force yourself to finish a book when there's so many other things to read.There were really funny moments in the half that I read, but they were all witty one liners that didn't have much to do with the plot.
Took me 50 or 60 pages to get a feel for the rhythm of the writing and the changing time streams. But I certainly didn't see the end coming!
Блестяще рассказанная история! Колоритные детали, специфический юмор и все, совершенно все, врут!
I don't feel as if there is a point with this book.
I really did not get that.Then at some point Adrian gets older and while he at the beginning still seems to struggle with his sexuality that quickly disappears.
well I don't know what is left.To be fairly honest I feel like this book let me down.
But if the story had at least had a point (or maybe I'm missing it in that case it would have had to have been a more obvious one in my opinion) and less confusing timelines I might have enjoyed it.Will I pick up anything else by Fry?
