https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25571846-thirteen-guests
In Thirteen Guests, first published in 1936, disillusioned John Foss suffers a fall from a railway train when alighting in a small Suffolk town and, thanks to an exquisitely beautiful but mysterious young widow, gets spirited to a grand country house, Bragley Court, to recover.
Thirteen Guests may be my first Joseph Jefferson Farjeon novel, but it won’t be my last.
Sayers called him “quite unsurpassed for creepy skill in mysterious adventures.” While Thirteen Guests isn’t particularly creepy, readers will find it an expertly crafted example of a Golden Age crime novel.
3 1/2 stars for this classic English Mystery - an enjoyable read.On a fine autumn weekend, Lord Aveling hosts a hunting party at his country house, Bragley Court.
Bravo to Poison Pen Press for republishing these classic murder mysteries.
They transport us back to a time of taking tea, and dressing for dinner, of hunts and dances, of murder, secret liaisons and intrigue.Thank you to Poison Pen Press and NetGalley for the gift of this book in exchange for an honest review.
Jefferson Farjeon (1883 – 1955), who wrote many mysteries, including the recently republished, “Mystery in White.” “Thirteen Guests” was original published in 1936 and has a traditional Golden Age country house setting.Twelve guests are headed for Bragley Court, the country house of conservative politician, Lord Aveling.
The last arrivals include Mr and Mrs Chater and both bring a sense of unease to the gathering.Obviously, the weekend is full of secrets, mysterious strangers, blackmail and assignations.
I hope more of Farjeon’s novels are re-released as I am a great fan of Golden Age mysteries and look forward to discovering more out of print classics.
Lucky for some...Twelve guests are invited to the country house of Lord Aveling for the weekend.
It gets off to a good start, with John's accident and his arrival as a stranger to the company providing a good excuse for all the various characters to be introduced to him, and therefore to the reader.
The characterisation isn't terribly in-depth, with some of the characters being 'types' rather than individuals – the cricketer who plays with a straight bat, the shifty strangers, the obnoxious journalist, etc.
A mediocre "country house" mystery in which more than half the book is spent on set-up for the misdeeds and the Inspector who shows up has very little to do with regards to questioning suspects and examining evidence.
Too much time is spent diverting the reader's attention and not enough clues are dropped (red herrings or otherwise) in order to make the resolution seem plausible.
I didn't care about any of the characters or their motivations, and I certainly didn't care whether any of them would turn out to be a murderer.Mystery lovers, particularly fans of 1930s-era crime fiction, would do better to skip this one and read something by Agatha Christie instead.
I found myself re-reading the first 50 pages because I thought for sure that I'd missed something important; in fact, it was nothing that I'd missed but endless palaver on the part of characters I couldn't really care about.
It takes another 100 pages before you start to care about his investigation...and then the story winds up.
I, too, will join this chorus: I was so glad to get to the end of this book!
Perhaps as a short story it could have had promise, but please: that banal ending has to go, under any circumstances.
However, I am not too convinced about a lot happening.A cast of characters who all made their way, mostly by invite, to Bragley Court spend all their time avoiding one another for whatever reasons and when meeting, discussing banal and uninteresting matters.
In addition he attempts to form a love match with one of them; this little affair remains a mystery even at the end.As time drags on, sorry, progresses, a dog is aimlessly killed (why we never know) and then a body is found when some of the guests go out on a stag hunt.
Reviewed for The Bibliophibian.Like Seven Dead, this actually includes a love story as well, although of a rather different stripe (and maybe a bit less of the focus, since neither party is seriously suspected of the murders).
It’s less prominent than the love story in Seven Dead, and thankfully less creepy as well, with some rather good scenes between the two of them negotiating their relationship.
It’s a country house mystery, too, just to hit all those traditional notes.I found it solidly entertaining, and though it’s a bit less weird/creepy than Seven Dead, I think it was probably stronger for it.
It felt like a Golden Age mystery ought to feel, if that makes any sense.I loved Inspector Kendall and his dry snark and the back-and-forth between himself and the country police he’s been tasked with sharpening up.I also love the (wee spoiler, here) twist ending.
I’m going to assume that some of these exchanges would have made sense to a reader when it was written, but even as a regular reader of period literature and a historian, a lot of these conversations meant absolutely nothing.
And poor John Foss, the stranger from the train station, laid up in the ante-room on a couch missing all the action but hearing everything!
In the summing up of the chain of events when Inspector Kendall gets to the bit about the dog he states: 'The death of a dog may not by some be regarded as a tragedy, but some dogs are more worthy than some men, and can be more justly mourned.'I highly recommend you try a J Jefferson Farjeon novel if you love mystery!Here's a sample from the book:"I don't kill," said Pratt.
"No; I don't kill.
Foss is reluctant to go along with her at first but if he is honest with himself he has fallen just a little in love with the enchanting Nadine and anyway the pain in his foot has already caused him to pass out once.He is the thirteenth guest but he isn't the thirteenth to arrive.
Various acts of violence take place before a murder and all the guests are under suspicion as is their host.
I recommend this book - and this author - to anyone who enjoys well plotted classic mysteries with plenty of humour and interesting characters.
This is a book that could be easily be mistaken for an Agatha Christie classic..It has all the right elements, a murder, a ruined painting, a dead dog and a terribly upper class vibe.Set in a country house, John Foss unexpectedly finds himself one the thirteen guests at Lord Avelings weekend party.The other twelve guests are a mixture of people, a widow, a painter and a gossip columnist among the few.
originally written in 1936, again this British Crime Classic has lost none of it's edge, and I think in another 100 years it will still be a brilliant and fresh read.There are a lot of characters, it's quite difficult keeping up, and a few clues as to what is going on, and I do think that this would a perfect TV drama.
This is a very complex story with a huge amount of protagonists.
The first half of the book, I found to be hard going and quite difficult to follow as all these characters had to be introduced and their various relationships explained in the context of the plot.
However, when the police arrive in the second half it livens up nicely and becomes a great page-turner and thoroughly enjoyable.
I liked Inspector Kendal and the fact that the author let him help the reader understand what was going on.
Farjeon must have had a mind like a computer to work it all out.
The book kept me reading well into the night, thirteen people and a few sub plots that I didn't see coming. I did enjoy the character they seem accurate for the times. I am so pleased that some of these author are being reprinted for us to read. I love the way the introductions give a very interesting bio on the author - that in itself add to the pleasure in reading the book.This book was provided in return for a honest and unbiased review.
Thirteen Guests is a classic mystery by T.
Lord Aveling is hosting a hunting party at his estate and due to an injured stranger has an unlucky 13 guests at his estate.
It isn’t long for the bad luck to strike and then there is a murder to solve.
Well crafted characters, from John, the injured stranger, to Pratt,the society painter, Nadine, the widow, and several others, who round out this rather full cast to give the reader many suspects to choose from.
There are many things to watch for unstable finances, are people who they say they are?, blackmailers, poisoners, and jealousy, all possible motives for murder.
Of the half dozen of these British Library Classics I’ve read so far, I think this has been my favourite. The country house weekend setting has been well-used but it does limit the number of suspects and encourages the reader to try to work it out. Some scenes did drag on, particularly between the invalid John Foss and Nadine, but the characters are well developed and intriguing and it’s pure escapism.
An enjoyable British country house mystery. Not a lot of action but lots of deducing.
Written in 1936, this is a golden-age of mystery also-ran novel, where a dog, two men, two women and a stag bite the dust.Not exactly an Agatha Christie puzzle, but worth a read if you're in the mood for an English country-house weekend.
The shadows seemed to contain uneasy secrets, and none of the people John had so far met reflected complete mental ease.”The title refers to a superstition that the thirteenth guest to arrive will be beset by bad luck.
John Foss is not the thirteenth guest to arrive – as his unexpected inclusion to the household precedes that of some of the invited guests.
Lying in an ante room, where various members of the household regularly come to chat to him, John can’t help but notice that it is Mr Chaters who is the thirteenth guest.
I have read all they have written, plus a lot of less-known authors.You can recognize some pattern here, some well-known characters: the misterious and incredibly beautiful and wordly window, the clueless outsider (which is an excuse to explain to us, the reader, what is happening), the country aristocrat with family, the cynic journalist etcetera.But, more than characters, they feel like caricature.
The beginning of the book give too much space to the sexual tension between the Clueless Outsider and the Misterious Widow instead of focusing on the other characters, the plot drags so much that you get bored even before the murder happens.Which means you stop reading and don't get to the murder.
"Thirteen Guests" is a mystery set in England and was originally printed in 1936.
The author understood human nature, and this added some complexity to the characters.
However, the focus was mainly on the mystery.
There are a lot of details to keep track of!So it's a clue-based puzzle mystery.
This gives the reader a chance at solving the complex series of events.
It really kept me thinking and re-evaluating possible scenarios based on new clues.
Overall, I'd recommend this complex mystery.I received an ebook review copy of this book from the publisher through NetGalley.
I love the gorgeous cover in the British Library Crime Classics edition, and it was a Christmas present from my husband.
But in the end, this recently republished country house murder just wasn't that great.
They were just sketches of people, to the point that I had a hard time caring about any of them.
My second fault was that the clues to the murder weren't really given to the reader.
I received another British Library Crime Classics for Christmas and I hope this one is better.
I hope that my opinion wont be that these mysteries were better off lost in the mists of time!
I love a cozy, particularly one written during the golden age of crime fiction and I enjoyed Farjeon’s Mystery in White, which was also republished as part of the British Library Crime Classics series.
Unfortunately, I didn’t enjoy Thirteen Guests quite as much.
There are a large number of characters, some of whom are extremely interesting and memorable, but the rest are mere throw-a-ways.
If all of the characters had been as well fleshed out as Leveridge and Bultin, I think I would have been able to overlook the ending and enjoy Farjeon’s novel as an example of popular mystery writing from the 1930’s.
Surprisingly wonderful old-fashioned country house mystery originally published in 1936.
Poisoned Pen Press in Scottsdale, Arizona, in association with the British Library, has been giving new life to some heretofore forgotten mysteries from the Golden Age. Unfortunately, some of them are best forgotten, as I discovered after purchasing another, less traditional mystery by Farjeon which just didn't cut it.
This one, however, is stellar, everything you'd ever want in a country house mystery, including some wit and charm, more than one death, and a romance between John and Anne which is classic.
Great fun in the very old-fashion - and best - sense of mystery reading fun.
I received a free copy from NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.
Thank you, Poisoned Pen Press!Originally published in 1936 (the characters mention Mussolini neutrally), Thirteen Guests is a charming whodunit in the most classic tradition.
It pays as much attention to character development as it does to plot, and the interaction between the players enriches the story.
I didn't see the ending coming, even if all the clues were obvious once you hear the explanation.
In any case, it is an enjoyable throwback to times when crimes could not be solved quickly, with computers and DNA analysis.
A master of mysteries J. Fargeon was a skilled writer and ranked with the best of his time. Highest praises for Poisoned Pen Press for reviving this wonderful mystery. If you’re a fan of Agatha Cristie I encourage you not to miss this book. Strong, intriguing characters, you’ll want to know more about each one as the story unfolds. A cleverly written plot that will keep you working at trying to figure out who the murderer is. The ending will surprise and please you. I highly recommend this book to mystery lovers.
I quite enjoyed this classic country house caper. All it needed was Margaret Rutherford (my heroine) popping up and I'd have been in heaven. Mind you it might have been the cough syrup. Its as much about class as it is about murder, I love these tales of a bygone age. Good on the British Library for re-publishing these forgotten masters.Toast
A classic British country house mystery. Thanks to British Library Crime Classics’ this reprint is worth plodding through just to solve the myriad of sub plots. Farjeon’s writing is accurate and precise especially when he is describing the countryside.
That little bit above, quoted from Farjeon's 1955 Times obituary, sums up quite nicely the impression with which one is left after reading this classic.
Inspector Kendall is a subtle and observant interrogator and his clever handling of individual guests is particularly entertaining.Lots of these "classic" crime books are distinguished only by their convoluted plots, or only by some signature character or investigator.
To me, the appeal of this book is that across the board Farjeon delivers - the early scenes by which the guests are introduced are just as interesting, (if you like a lot of setup), as the actual mystery.
J. Jefferson Farjeon skillfully structures his novel by the timeline: a thirteenth guest by accident occupies a room in a lord's country manor for the entirety of a weekend planned for a hunt; vandalism, a disappearance, and murder ensue.
Thirteen Guests lacks liveliness, in my opinion, even with all that's going on.
Jefferson Farjeon novel I've read, and I learned even before I finished it I am not a fan of the "people pace around a manor being anxious and shifty-eyed until a detective sorts it out in the last eighty pages" type of crime novel, although the country house murder trope appeals to me.
