https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1153622.Ten_Great_Mysteries
If you're looking for a good introduction to Edgar Allan Poe's prose, this collection would be a good place to start.
And Poe should be read in late fall, somewhere around Halloween.
As a reader, it is evident just how haunted of a man Edgar Allan Poe really was.
I also enjoyed this little edition because even though it includes Poe classics like "The Tell-Tale Heart" and "The Pit and the Pendulum," it also includes less well-known stories.
Overall, not a must-have for Poe enthusiasts (as this is just a little snippet of his total works), but recommended for those who would like to become better read in Edgar Allan Poe or who would like to see what he is capable of.
My favorite is "The Black Cat."
Getting through this was one of 2018's hardest struggles.
3.5 StarsNever read anything by Edgar Allan Poe in my life up until now so this was a pretty decent 'introduction' to his works. I thought some of the mysteries were really good but a lot of them I wasn't a fan of (mainly because of the writing style). Interested to see what his poetry is like though... seems like a happy chap...
I would give this book a 3.5 star rating because 3 just doesn't cut it.Edgar Allan Poe and his work need little introduction.
Poe has been considered one of the greatest story tellers of all time, and the man who has had an influence on the genre of mystery and crime like no other.
If you plan on reading Poe's work, then you cannot think of rushing through it like you would a number of mystery and crime writers today.
And I think that anyone who says that they love reading need to read Poe's work - at least once.
For its time, though, I suppose Rue Morgue was trail blazing.
What makes this story much more readable than Murders in the Rue Morgue is that it is written with a lighter touch, with humor.
This, also, was a first reading.The last story in the collection, “Metzengerstein,” would have made a perfect half-hour episode on “The Twilight Zone.” It has the same ironic tone in its ending.One thing I usually find an affectation is the too frequent use of foreign language quotes.
I first read Poe in the first grade, after randomly picking up a book containing some of his stories in my school library.
For some reason, "The Pit and the Pendulum" stuck out in my mind.
Since then, I came across some of his stories every so often.
I came across this edition in a used bookstore, and realized that it was the same as the one my fifth grade teacher had in her class.
So naturally, I had to buy it.
Classic horror and dark themes, perhaps it was my early exposure to Poe that can explain my taste for the macabre?
Like with most anthologies I found that some of the stories were very good and some I didn't really care for.The title of the book itself was misleading. Some of the stories were mysteries but not all of them. For example, one of the stories in the book is the Telltale Heart. In the story the main character of the story tells exactly how he committed murder down to the small details. It's a good short story, but it's not a mystery at all.
I remember reading The Raven back in high school and not being impressed.
I wonder if I would appreciate it more now that I've read some of his stories?I am not a fan of poetry.
I respect it, and the people that can create it, but it holds little value for me, personally.
Before reading this book, I had never read any of Poe's work outside of his poetry.
Curiously, I am very much attracted to his overdramatic, senses-focused style when it's told in a more traditional story format...
The book, Ten Great Mysteries, by Edgar Allan Poe, includes multiple dark and mysterious stories that are beautifully written.
This story shows how even the highest in society can be driven to madness in the very safety of their home.
Madness becomes a common occurrence for most of the characters in the story.
The challenges presented to the characters are so dark and terrible, that it becomes even more crazy when the protagonist isn’t driven to madness.
I would recommend this book to others because it’s very intense and is full of suspenseful stories.
Only a handful of these are "mysteries" in the whodunnit genre sense. Go into this with the understanding of mysteries as eerie events "difficult or impossible to understand or explain" and you won't be disappointed. I enjoyed this as a cozy autumnal reminder of Poe's dark short story powers.
I thought this was an okay book. I don't love Poe's writing style, as it overwhelmingly tells rather than shows the reader. But some of the chosen mysteries were good.
Several of the stories I really enjoyed, but I probably won't be reading this again.
I love his writing! But again, I learn something about myself. The gothic, dark, horror genre is not my cup of tea. But I would read again for the writing. My favorite was, ‘The tell tale heart”.
Some of the stories "..will burn the heart out of you".Awestruck by his writing...
A fellow Goodreader described it well: "I think I appreciated Poe more as young teenager than I do as an adult.
This is not to say that I don’t appreciate him, today, but it is with the winter memory of a summer romance."Another factor that bodes poorly for Poe is that for better or for worse our senses as modern readers are unequivocally dulled.
I appreciate that this whole horror and mystery thing was revolutionary in Poe's heyday and I commend him for commencing the genre, but unfortunately this collection is rather weak tea nowadays.I will confess, however, that The Facts in the Case of M.
TEN GREAT MYSTERIESAround the time when I started reading novels with more thrills scares and suspense, I was recommended to look more in to classic horror author, Edgar Allan Poe. I mean he’s made out to be as the King of Darkness, I mean that’s impossible, how can you beat Ozzy?
TEN GREAT MYSTERIES, is not just a single story, but rather it’s a collection of ten stories, deemed Poe’s “best”.
I mean Poe to me, is just like any other author, that when it comes to his work, it’s either hit or miss, and in this case for this book it was half and half.
I decided to re-read these tales after reading some of H.P. Lovecraft's stories.
Poe is generally less complex and less fascinated by mythology and scientific detail than Lovecraft.
I strongly recommend this collection if you are unfamiliar with Poe's wild imagination, and as a succinct collection for long time fans wanting to re-visit some of his best stories.
Poe died fairly young, yet his writing has influenced many other writers, artists, and musicians (including a sonically wonderful and creative concept album by Alan Parsons Project called Tales of Mystery and Imagination.) I am not as familiar with Poe's poetry, but plan to check it out sometime.
My first real introduction to Poe's writing other than seeing a movie version of The Murders in the Rue Morgue and reading "The Masque of the Red Death" in High School (which I really enjoyed, but is not included in this book).
I enjoyed this much more than I thought that I would once becoming comfortable with the style.
I had some difficulty in adjusting to the style in a couple of the short stories and liked some of the stories far more than others, but overall I enjoyed this book.
"The Tell-Tale Heart" and "Thou Art the Man" were probably the two that I most enjoyed.
The story that was my most favorite, while I was reading this book compilation, was The Tell-tale Heart.
And he does this constantly until the constable come to look into the matter.
Oh well, I guess some people are just no good when it comes to murder.
Another story that I remember reading was Metzengerstein and Descent into the maelstrom.
Both were decent, but not as memborable as The Tell-tale Heart for me.
All in all, if you love Edgar Allan Poe. Then, this book will be right up your alley.
* The Murders in the Rue Morgue - A rather silly Holmes-esque mystery tale.* The Purloined Letter - Not bad, but far too wordy.* The Tell-Tale Heart - Funnier than I'd remembered.
One of my all-time favorites.* The Facts in the Case of M.
I'm not sure if I liked it or not.* A Descent into the Maelstrom - Not too memorable.* The Black Cat - Deliciously disturbing.* "Thou Art the Man" - Clever but very predictable.* Metzengerstein - I'm not sure I entirely understand what happened in this one.
Edgar Allen Poe is, as the note says, a master of what he does - unfortunately, sometimes the master misses his mark, and a few of these stories demonstrate that. When he does get it right, it's mindbending. When he gets it wrong, he makes me wonder, why did I start reading this book?
So far I've just read "The Murders in the Rue Morgue" and enjoyed it although it's more of a narrative than a mystery. No way for the reader to solve this one - just read it and enjoy it. As with most books of short stories my current modus operandi is to read a story from the book now and again as opposed to going straight through - so I'll be back to add to this review.
Ah, this is one of Edgar's slower reads and I guess that's because the version I have is the original unabridged text; tedious and cumbersome. Still, the man's genius shines through effortlessly. His great detective C. Auguste Dupin precedes Sherlock Holmes by at least fifty years - in print, evidence of the inner workings of Allan's genius though haunted mind. Good read.
I did not remember, having read this book as a kid, that Groff Conklin was the editor. He (Conklin) is one of my favorite anthologists in science fiction (his Possible Worlds of Science Fiction is brilliant.) The introduction, as well as the intros to the individual stories, are very interesting and have insight into Poe and his work. Enjoyed reading these stories again.
This is a great collection of Poe. I read some old favorites and was introduced to some I'd never heard of. And I loved some, liked some, and didn't care for some. But it does give me a much richer view of Poe as a writer.
In sixth grade, everyone in my class had to do a report on someone famous, dead or alive. I chose Edgar Allan Poe for some unknown reason, and my mom bought me this book somewhere, and I must have read it half a dozen times that year.
The language makes it a difficult read, but it's one of those cultural books it's good to have read. Plus the first major detective story (pre-Sherlock) is definitely no CSI.
Poe as a writer deserves 5 stars. This particular collection of his stories doesn't contain what I think are his best stories and poems but if you come across it it's still totally worth reading.
well first the book was great, I like it how he was talking about the letters he wrote and they were good to know throughout the story. Tyler cooper
