https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/187220.By_Any_Means_Necessary
Part of the transformation was Malcolm being raised in a house of god leaves get’s into trouble, believes there is no god to the point where Malcolm becomes a man of god and follower of Ala. If you read this book cover to cover your life will be changed, This book has opened my eyes to how hard it was to get the freedom I have today.
If you would want to look more in depth about Malcolm’s life in his words I would recomend you read Malcolm X’s autobiography.
after all, my previous experience with the man and his historical impact was limited to the spike lee movie.
but after reading this book, i found that there was another attraction (actually two): this is a man with a passion to see real justice in the world and this is a man seeking redemption (social, political, spiritual.) these are powerful symbols, and this collection of interviews and statements allows for some of these ideals to be seen.
but this is one of the few writings of the man's own words, not filtered through the censor of academia.
not what you learned about X, if you even learned about him, in elementary school. this is a collection of his speeches, directly from his mouth. call me easily influenced but this book completely altered my feelings on gun-ownership and pacifism.revolution, fools!
I'll say what I say to most people about Malcolm X (and keep in mind I grew up as a white suburban kid - luckily with a dad that taught me to find out things for myself and not rely on the words of others) - read Malxolm's actual speeches.
Read and see his evolution.
And people rarely finish the way they started.
These speeches give some (not total) but some measure of Malcolm's evolution.
It wasn't about violence for the sake of violence.
It wasn't about killing "whitey".
It is sufficient in this world to simply be the stake one's flag in the ground and hold that position until death, but when one can be so public and still allow the world to know that your position has changed upon the arrival of new information; that you might have possibly been wrong and now you are publicly correcting your stance.This is the signature of a mature human being.
One not lost in the leadership role assigned to them, but one whom has transcended and simply recognizes that they are a part of some larger and human and brilliant.
Hi the book I read was Malcolm X.
This book was an interesting thing to read.
But shortly after he starts figuring out that he has change.
For the worst but with the help.
Martin Luther king Jr. help he found his way back.
Then got out but died shortly after which was really sad.
This is my book helped me to understand.
How some one can change over time to find their self in life.
Also this book makes me feel like change is hard for one person.
That’s my book review hope you liked it.
Easy quick read. Was very interesting as I wanted to know more about Malcolm X, and his life and what he did. This book offered a quick journey of his life throughout the years and his ideas and how they changed, and the impact he left on many in the world. Good book. I would recommend it to anyone interested in Malcolm X, the U.S. Civil rights movement, or anyone wanting a quick informative read about someone regarded as a very influential person.
What can I say? I'm a sucker for controversial public figures and their writings. Good insight on his speeches. Read this, by any means necessary....
Was a great book!
A collection of speeches and interviews by one of the greatest men in history. Reading Malcolm X’s thoughts on the movement, and politics elsewhere, before and after him leaving the Nation of Islam.
I was fascinated to learn of his pivotal role in growing the Nation of Islam in America both as a movement and a religious organization during this time, but also that he was saved by its discipline and order.
I would have liked a little more insight into what made Malcolm so uncompromising in his path toward bettering the lives his people.
How some people are born to lead and are gifted, powerful orators is a thing of fascination for me!
There's sadly always an early ending for people like him in this country.
I don't know too much about Malcolm X and while I probably should have started off reading a more comprehensive guide on his life, this was really insightful on a different level.
Instead of reading about someone's opinion or interpretation on his life, I got to read his speeches.
Such a powerful speaker.
It's easy to understand how he got a bad name...it's easy to twist his words.
Black people (or any minority) should have equal rights as everyone else and be equal enough to know that they should fight for the rights that are rightfully there's to fight for.
I will definitely read more about him in the years to come.
Inspirational speaker.
Malcolm best speeches -
It's really important to read speeches like these to get a sense of Malcolm X as someone not reducible to his role as a figurehead for Black Islam nor as a foil to Martin Luther King Jr but as an individual who from particular circumstances and interacting with history as it was unfolding underwent a rapid political change.
Which gives the reader some sense of how Malcolm X was synthesizing his experiences into a new political framework.
Also it's a blessing to read the speeches of someone who was so electric in his speaking and who made such elegant points with great ease and an economy of language.
He once hailed a plane crash because it was filled with white people, he called white men “the devil,” and said JFK’s assassination was white America’s “chickens coming home to roost.” He also said that “What we need is the destruction of whiteness, which is the source of human misery in the world,” Dr. Martin Luther King would not appear on public events beside him because of Malcolm’s racism.
(Malcolm denounced Martin Luther King’s civil-rights march as “ridiculous.”) Dr. King agreed to be photographed with him only when, in the last year of his life, Malcolm X renounced his racism.
Book: Malcom X, By Any Means Necessary Author: Walter Dean MyersRating: 5Summary: In this book Malcom Little known to you as Malcom X was a powerful man in history.
Malcom a.k.a Detroit Red went on to Boston only to deep trouble.
When sent to jail Malcom turned over a new lead he began to read the dictionary and soon enough by the help of Elijah Muhammad Malcom was released and went on a courageous journey that will make his life for better or for worse.Too find out more you just have to READ & SEE !
Excellent read. Very refreshing to see Malcolm's thinking and how it changed in the 2 years before being killed. He was always self criticizing, always reflecting and always changing his approach according to surrounding conditions, which is the correct thing to do in political struggle. What's more amazing is that his analysis and ideas on violence, self-defense, racism, and revolution are STILL relevant today! also Malcolm spoke in a way that everyone can understand, from 10 years old to 60 years old. definitely recommend this, especially to the youth!
Fighting for equality. I'm amazed by how an intelligent man like Malcolm could let another "man" lead him blindly. I'm so happy that he saw the real truth and fought the ignorance. I love that he grew leaps and bounds not just for himself but for enlightening others. It's like all of us we start believing one way but as we grow and mature we see that it's okay if people are who they are be it white, black, gay, straight, woman, man, old or young.
Malcolm X's autobiography left a powerful impact on me when I first read it, but after listening to recordings of the speeches in this book, I felt a greater sense of awe and love for him. I can only wonder what it would've been like to listen to him in person. The powerful rhetoric in this collection reveals the sharpness and depth of his intelligent mind. Truly, his life is a testament to the transformative power of a "homemade" education, as he himself called it.
From being the top student in his class to being known as Detroit Redthe street hustler. To being locked up at the age of twenty, where his life changed forever. Where his views of the life of a black man in America changed. His views shocked America then and still do today. This biography tells Malcolm's story from the troubles him and his family faced when he was a young boy to the problems he faced as a grown man.
This book was a great collection of interviews and speeches from one the leaders of the Civil Rights Movement. What stuck out to me is that unfortunately all of these years later, these themes and messages still resonate in 2016.
no mediation, just Malcolm rapping his views, good survey of his speeches from different periods in his life and philosophies. Worth picking up for the post-NOI writings that get often overlooked.
In my opinion he has an excellent perception and understanding of the United States.
From the latter part of Malcolm X's life. Interesting to see his transformation
I love this book because it gives you an idea of who Malcolm X really was as opposed to who he was portrayed to be. You can read about his growth as a man and how empowering he is in this book.
How could it be anything other than a five?
Incredible. His words are more relevant now than ever before.
I like a lot of Malcolm X's ideas but this book was not a great place to see those. Lots of repetition and watering down/changing ideas for his audience, or just limitation by his interviewers.
,n
