https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6505014-the-temple
His Teutonic will eventually collapses completely as he drifts to his watery death surrounded by the mysteriously glowing ruins of the ancient metropolis, but an even greater irony suffuses a statement he makes earlier in his explorations:
Of this I cannot now speak save to utter my awe at a culture in the full noon of glory when cave-dwellers roamed Europe and the Nile flowed unwatched to the sea.
This man from what he thinks of as a superior culture realizes his ancestors were mere cavemmen when this culture was in “the full noon of glory," and he can say nothing “save to utter [his] awe.”
This one is a major creeper.
3.5'On August 20, 1917, I, Karl Heinrich, Graf von Altberg-Ehrenstein, Lieutenant-Commander in the Imperial German Navy and in charge of the submarine U-29, deposit this bottle and record in the Atlantic Ocean at a point to me unknown but probably about N.
Longitude 35°, where my ship lies disabled on the ocean floor.' The Temple is a story of a World War I U-Boat and its end told by Karl Heinrich, Graf von Altberg-Ehrenstein, Lieutenant-Commander in the Imperial German Navy.
Nobody seems German enough except him.After they sink an enemy ship, they find a dead man holding 'a very odd bit of ivory carved to represent a youth’s head crowned with laurel'.
The story is presented in the form of a journal entry from a German U-Boat officer during WWI documenting the final moments of the ship's damned voyage.
Rather than reading this as a straight-up narration, K.
Anderson Yancy has produced here a full-fledged sonic experience with sound effects and a mild background score that never distract and serve the story perfectly.
At only 45 minutes, THE TEMPLE is a great listening experience.
Highly recommended.(Note: This audiobook was provided by the narrator at no cost in exchange for an unbiased review courtesy of AudiobookBlast dot com.)
Klaustrophobischer Grusel am Grund des Meeres.
A short story set in 1917.
A German submarine sinks a British Freighter and brings on board an artefact found on one of the dead sailors which appears to be cursed.
The story is told in the first person by the Captain of the German Uboat who records the subsequent events in a log or letter in a bottle.I listened to this on the SFFAudio poscast.
The audio narrator was a little hard to understand.
The story itself was quite straightforward.
The Uboat basically descends into madness with a hint of the supernatural.
It’s kinda been done to death nowadays so ho hum.3 stars.
Personally I love this story. The nautical element, the mysterious discovery at the bottom of the ocean, the weird relic...it could be a novel all its own but instead is a compacted, moody, short little tale that hints at much larger terrors but never fully brings them into light.
“He is calling!
He is calling!
We must go!” "The Temple" is a creepy underwater tale about a German U-boat's encounter with an equally creepy underwater temple.
In typical fashion, the tale is recounted from the ship's log entries made by the highly bigoted and patriotic captain.
After the U-boat sinks a British ship, the crew discovers an artefact clutched in the hands of a drowned enemy.
Over the course of the next few days, the crew slowly hear and see phantom images and begin to think that the U-boat is now cursed for having brought the image on board.
"El templo" fue una de las primeras historias de H.P. Lovecraft en ser publicadas.
Todavía hay mucho de Lovecraft que tengo pendiente así que no quiere apresurar mucho mi apreciación sobre el autor, sin embargo, me ha gustado la prosa de Lovecraft: sencilla y directa.La historia es contada en forma de una bitácora en la cual un capitán de la Marina Imperial Alemana (sí, durante la Primera Guerra Mundial) al mando de un submarino U-29 narra los sucesos que provocaron el hundimiento de su nave y el posterior descubrimiento de un templo en las profundidas del mar.
Not creepy so much as it is visually satisfying to read. This is Lovecraft’s interpretation of the discovery of Atlantis. There are some horror themes prevalent, but they are overshadowed by the strange and beckoning beauty of the mysterious underwater foundation. As much as I fear the sea, I almost wanted to take a dive to explore it myself.
Excelente! Hace mucho que no leía un relato tan bueno
Darunter auch ein wunderschöner Jüngling, der eine Elfenbeinstatuette umklammert hält, die Leutnant Klenze an sich nimmt.Schon bald übt die Statuette einen unheilvollen Einfluss auf die Mannschaft aus, der sie zur Meuterei treibt und schlussendlich zum Tode der Besatzung und zum Untergang des U-Bootes führt.Diese Geschichte bezieht ihren Gruseleffekt aus der klaustrophobischen Atmosphäre an Bord eines U-Bootes.
Leider wurde diese Kurzgeschichte familientauglich entschärft, so dass sie weniger als Schauergeschichte denn als klassische Kriegserzählung mit mystischen Elementen erscheint.Bei der Auswahl der Sprecher wurde wie immer topp besetzt, aber das ist man vom Gruselkabinett ja auch nicht anders gewohnt.
I can officially say I've read enough of Lovecraft's early works to expect certain ideas and traits in his stories: xenophobia, conservatism and ancient lore (oh and more cats apparently-- goody).
It's interesting to note that every man that came to his doom in this story was every bit as weak as all except Karl(actually no, that's obvious).
The state bred him well; and his patriotism is enduring and terrifyingly blinding.
Perhaps blinding the reader as well?
The tug, and pull of whatever ancient menace is slowly decaying his men seems do to it with ease.
It seems to be set in World War 1 from a German perspective.
patriotic German perspective.
This gives off the impression that the main character doesn't care, and in a few cases he seems downright pleased.The main character and a sick man descend to the bottom of the sea to look for Atlantis.
Later, when all hope seems lost, Atlantis is the basis for some good old cosmic horror.
Overall, it was a bit of a dull read with a some good lines and not much to be afraid of (unless the obituaries make you scream).
Pretty decent story, with an intentionally detestable main character, at least I'm assuming Lovecraft meant for him to be perceived as an asshole. Nice portrayal of a gradual descent into madness of the entire crew, as their numbers declined due to suicide and murder.
Submarines are intrinsically creepy. Of course Lovecraft has a submarine story. I found it quite hilarious that Lovecraft of all people was presenting the main character in this one as a bit of a racist.
It's almost funny to have Lovecraft maligning a German office for his racism.
* shakes head * Then there's the cartoonish, "Well, he's [sick|insubordinate|superstitious|etc.] so I must shoot him" attitude, contrasted with this ridiculously ironic line: "German lives are precious".
So precious that he kills the rest of his crew himself.
Very precious.
So, yeah, unintentional dark humor in that.As for the actual story...
Cursed artifact brought on board submarine, submarine stops working, crew goes mad, submarine sinks toward mysterious sunken city, escorted by so-called dolphins who never surface for air.I mostly gave it 3 stars for the unintentional humor.
Розповідає Карл Гайнріх, капітан німецького підводного човна. Його команда успішно потопила британське судно "Вікторія" і чекає у водах Атлантичного океану на свою наступну жертву. Після підйому на поверхню на човні знайшли, очевидно, одного з британців, який намагався врятуватися, зачепившись за човень. Звісно ж, він був мертвий. У нього знайшлм амулет зі слонової кістки, на якому був викарбуваний молодик у лавровому вінку. Один з офіцерів, лейтенант Клєнце забрав його собі як сувенір. Після цього невдачі почали переслідувати човен. Він зламався, команда втратила глузд і всіх довелося вбити. Залишився тільки капітан, коли течія принесла підводний човен до затонулого міста з величним храмом.
This one is interesting, and the sense of humor is back. Set on a WWI German U-boat, the claustrophobia and paranoia of the captain serve to make his deep sea discovery actually somewhat creepy. (view spoiler)[The identification of the deluged ruin as Atlantis seems unchallenged by the story, which would have been improved if this had been another encounter with the deep sea aliens of "Dagon," but Lovecraft is still warming up at this point. (hide spoiler)] 4*(Moving 2015 review to separate work to make room under collection for review, September 2017.)
P. Lovecraft y la verdad que es de lo mejor que lei, y resulto una experiencia especial dado que no soy fan del genero del terror u horror.
Si bien se trata de un cuento corto, leerlo fue bastante perturbador debido a que la narrativa de Lovecraft(para algunos bastante densa por la cantidad de adjetivos utilizados) tiene un efecto bastante considerable, en cuanto a inmersión en la historia.
Hizo que sienta lo que los protagonistas sintieron y eso era lo que buscaba con un relato de este genero.
Sin dudas, una experiencia particular pero una a la cual no puedo poner ninguna queja.
El relato que me animó a seguir leyendo a Lovecraft después de pasar por su obra inicial(Empecé a leerlo por orden cronológico con la fantástica edición de Valdemar). El escenario es bastante original, nos sitúa en un submarino alemán en la Primera Guerra Mundial. Me hubiera gustado que jugase más con la claustrofobia del submarino y que la historia fuera mas trasparente ya que algunas partes dejan preguntas sin responder, por lo demás es bastante buena.
This jewel of Lovecraft's works represents a unique story that he would never again replicate. Though the technique is classic Cthulhu horror, the setting and social commentary therein is thoroughly unique and original. I would argue that Lovecraft's extrapolation of the socialized mindset of an individual in justifying his action is among the best I've read in such a format.Highly recommend you take the brief time to read the brilliant short story.
I really like Lovecraft’s stories. But so far this one has been my favorite. For some reason it just got to me. I usually don’t think of his stories as being more than mildly creepy. But this one grabbed me at the very beginning as being creepier than others I’ve read of his. It definitely gave me a stirring of feelings.
8/10
Es un buen relato. Me gusta la manera de escribir de Lovecraft; es el primer relato que leo de el. No obstante, de alguna manera, sentí, que el suspenso se quedó corto.
This was pretty good actually. Lots of suspense and dismissed strangeness, a good sense of mystery and intrigue throughout. More like what I was expecting of Lovecraft.
Bonito el juego de la "voluntad Germana", el tipo nunca pierde la cordura ni los ánimos hasta el final, se sigue manteniendo racional; lo irracional solo queda sugerido.
I could be wrong, but I think the narrator of this story is German.
Du pure lovecraft : fantastique, angoissant... un récit original par le journal de bord d'un officier de la luftwaffe en 1917.
This would make a good movie
