https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/560027.Works_of_Jules_Verne_
Assuming I'd be able to leave it one day, of course.A Journey to the Center of the EarthThis is basically the same concept, except we're now traveling through the earth rather than the sea.
Tough to get through the first book.And the second goes through the "bullet's" actual journey, which I thought would be more interesting, but it was still chocked full of scientific babble.
Meanwhile, a detective is following them because he believe Mr. Fogg is a bank robber.I actually found myself laughing throughout this book.
Excellente édition numérique. Les illustrations sont bien mieux scannées et intégrées que celles de l'édition Arvensa. C'est un réel plaisir de pouvoir se plonger dans la lecture de Jules Verne avec des illustrations plein écran. Et le coût est dérisoire.Attention, cette édition pèse tout de même 230 Mo.Plus de 24 000 pages (format poche), sans compter les illustrations.
So tonight I watched Discovery's Prophet of Science because it is about Verne.
That's like the deal of the century despite the end of copyright, but still, having it in bundling, electronic form is so much easier, plus I got to carry the father of sci-fi's writing everywhere I go.March 2, 2016:I just finished reading Robur's story and while it was fascinating, especially at the stard and the end, there were not many things happening during the journey.
But maybe Verne wanted to show the other people's behaviour, ignorant, ungrateful and selfish as they were.Rating for the story itself: 2.5/5
I read FROM THE EARTH TO THE MOON...it was EXCELLENT!!! I am amazed at the accuracy even though it was written so long ago!
Classic.
I've never read anything by Verne that I didn't like!
To be clear, I haven't finished the entire tomb, just Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea, I decided to read this due to Jules Verne's writings being referred to in both of the novels I just completed, Bedtime Stories by Joseph Blum and the Kite Runner by Khaled Hosseini.
Although each came from very different backgrounds, the main characters in both stories had enjoyed Verne's writings while growing up, as I had, over 40 years ago.
This allows him to write in a style, that after 150 years, is still incredibly enjoyable, and with great suspense.I was pleasantly surprised to find a story that was well written, had good character development, and has stood the test of time.
Cada historia tiene lo suyo y la hizo especialLa que mas me entretuvo fue la de la vuelta al mundo en 80 dias,habia veces en las que me desesperava que el policia se aferraba a meter a mr.philleas a la carcel mientras que él trataba de cumplir su viaje junto a su mayordomo picaporte mi parte favorita fue el.final fue un final satisfactorio ya que se queda con la chica y no le importaba la recompensa.
Haven't read all of them, probably about half. Really enjoyed the Adventures of Captain Hatteras, The Children of Captain Grant, and Five Weeks in a Balloon. Oh, the Underground City was really good as well.
Interesting historical referencesSome themes are repetitive and the endings are not usually surprises but he still keeps you reading on. In their day they were the best entertainment due to their vision of the future today a window to the past but still entertaining.
:-DatedBadly dated but that is to be expected. Drags a bit but still a classic.add to your collection and save
Con este libro comenzamos mi aventura en el ámbito de las letras Ya que por toda la travesía de la aventura yo me encontré en el Submarino con el capitán nemo
Jules Verne does a pretty good job of having creating interesting stories that are compelling but bogs them down in details about the geography or flora and fauna. I realize these stories were meant to teach about different climates and geographies and all that but at the same time it made them harder to read. Also, did the usefulness of pemmican in exploration have to be described every time it is mentioned? No. Overall they are good but can be slow to get through.  Five Weeks in a Balloon - 3
Jules Verne does a pretty good job of having creating interesting stories that are compelling but bogs them down in details about the geography or flora and fauna.
Jules Verne had an awesome character in Captain Nemo and despite hinting at his back story the book ends without resolving or explaining anything.
They do all that they can to survive and leave the rest up to Providence.Around the World in Eighty Days - 3 stars - What is with Jules Verne and creating mysterious characters whose back story is never explained, first Captain Nemo and now Phileas Fogg.
It all starts in Hamburg, Germany, where Otto Lidenbrock, a famous scientist discovers a secret map going to the center of earth.
After few miles in the volcano, the group found out that the way to the center of earth was heading South-West, meaning that at one point they would leave IceLand to go somewhere else.10 May, 2015After leaving IceLand, Otto, the guide, and his nephew, traveled lots of miles.
So they did it, and saw the water again.They then walked back in the good direction, and Otto decided to take one day of rest.
I read the entire collection when i was about 12-14 years old. A delight for any adventure, mystery and SF lover. each story, apart from the three main genre features mentioned above, praises the spirit of freedom,courage and fight personified in Verne s ultimate great characters.
This novel has caused me to run out and purchase Moby Dick, and also got me to place The Old Man and the Sea high on my list of novels to reread!!***Update:Journey to the Center of the Earth:Just read this novel, it was pushed up the list of to-reads due to the movie trailer I saw last week ( I like to read the novels before seeing the films)I enjoyed this story (so much less technical than the others I have read).
Ugh!***UPDATE"Passepartout wept till he was blind, and felt like blowing his brains out."I went my whole life believing this book was about a man who travelled the world in 80 days by way of a hot air balloon (due to the numerous book covers that showed me such).
I have to confess, I didn't read everything here, just the main novels, and not any of the short stories included.Why?
Going back to my childhood in terms of having wanted to read these books seems like a long long time ago, and it was fun to a point.Verne's novels are very readable, they have dated as one would entirely expect, but hold some interest in terms of getting inside the mind-set of the time they were written in.
Trusty man-servants and loyalty issues aside, there are passages still exciting to read as the author revels in telling his fantastic stories.To finish the lot, you have to be a real fan(atic) I would imagine, but certainly worth dipping the toes into.
The book is decent - it has the Verne stories in it (20,000 Leagues, Journey to the Center of the Earth, Around the world in 80 days, etc.) and is nicely bound and printed.
From the Earth to the Moon didn't interest me in the slightest, it talks about making a gun that can shoot a projectile (in this case loaded with men and provisions) to the Moon, kind of dumb, but it's funny to hear a Frenchman from the 1800s describe Americans in the first chapter.
Anyway the stories themselves are recommended, but if you're not collecting you might be better off getting the classics in separate books.
This work was Journey to the Center of the Earth.
Just the other day, I realized I had never read it.
I loved the old movie and being the reader that I am, I could not believe my neglect.This is the translation of the Jules Verne original and I must say, at times the reading is rough.
It was written and translated long ago so some of the words are...confusing as well as sentence structure and meaning.
I did find the main character a bit childish, whinney and silly and very self centered.
I put it down to the day and age that the book was written.
If your looking for adventure then this is a must read. I have read this works in conjunction with the works of H.G.Wells which I also give 5 stars. To sum up for the reader: One is the master of understanding love and romance in the narrative and Jules Verne is the master of adventure and imagination.Travel the continent the way no one else could describe, visit the north pole in detail then journey the jungles of deepest Africa. No land is left untouched absolutely remarkable.Both books are amazing value, containing endless hours of enjoyment.
20,000 Leagues Under the Sea - 3.5 stars. This was kind of boring at the beginning, but it got better and more interesting halfway through.Around the World in 80 Days - 4.5 stars. More suspenseful and interesting than 20,000 Leagues.The Blockade Runners - 4 stars. Quick read. From the Earth to the Moon/Round the Moon - I couldn't get into this and decided not to finish it. Four stars average for the 3 I read.
This is a selection of readings including 20,000 Leagues under the Sea, Journey to the Center of the Earth, Around the World and 80 Days and others. I read Journey as a teen and it is still good. The best is Around the World. I enjoyed seeing what Verne thought would happen and what is interesting is how much he got right. Classics.
It is a decent collection of his more well known books but his writing is a bit dry in spots as far as scientifically classifying almost every creature he encounters. These are books I wanted to read but now that I have I will most likely not bother to reread them. 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea and the flying ship one were suspiciously similar.
The best $1.99 cents that l spent in my life.Truly once finished you have been around the world and didn't worry how many days it took.
Nu weten jullie waarom ik naar IJsland wou....
Well Have read only the Mysterious Island and Around the world in 80 days
I loved the adventure!
... the last volume in the series I read through the years 1994.Verne's books have a special and alert rhythm for those times.
Establishing cultural terms !
I have read these stories as a child and teenager now I am rereading them because they were amazing then and still are.
