https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46601.An_Echo_in_the_Darkness
I contacted KC right away to ask her who “Olympia” is because in book 2 it is mentioned that she introduced Julia to Calabah.
The characters must first be right with God before they are free to romantically give their heart to another.
It wasn't until the last 25% of book when they were placed in the same situation did I begin to love the story.
Book 1 & 2 continuing story.
I loved the journey that Marcus went through, I loved the fact that Phoebe became a Christian and did everything in her power to do the Lord's will.
I loved how Marcus went after Hadassah, and didn't turn away from her - calling her beautiful!(An awww moment) Most of the struggles and questions that are in this book are questions that I sometimes face and that I hear, and most of the time I have no answers to these questions.
This, and the first book, have reminded me that I should ask the Lord for the right words and not to think of my own, as I wont get the message across...
I bought the first book not realizing it was part of a series.
You must have the second book in hand before you finish the first!
The hand of God is so profoundly involved in her life and her work that she becomes known as "the healer".
The Valerian family continues down the dark path of materialism and an appetite for more.
You must read the first book to enjoy the second, but let me say it again: my favorite book EVER.
I originally read it 17 years ago, and no book has been it's equal for me personally.
This book is "it" for me.
'"What do you want of God, Roman?"It was an imperious question from so small a boy, and was said with a curious blend of humility and demand.
"I'll know when I face him.""Perhaps the answers you seek can't be found in something you can see and touch."Amused, Marcus smiled.
"You have big thoughts for a small boy."The boy grinned.
"A shepherd has time to think.""Then, my little philosopher, what would you advise?"The boys's smile faded.
"When you face God, remember he is God."I'll remember what he's done," Marcus said coldly."That, too," the boy said almost gently.Marcus frowned slightly...Marcus felt something strange move within him as he watched the boy with his sheep.
Oh my, I wasn't ready for this book. I am so happy and thankful I read this series. This book showcased Marcus's struggle beautifully. He truly struggled and found his faith and it was beautiful to watch. Seeing the miracles, the faith, it was amazing. I highly highly recommend this trilogy.
Let me start by saying, "WOW, This is one of the best, most moving books I have ever read in my entire life!"An Echo in the Darkness by Francine Rivers is an absolute masterpiece.
Eventually, Hadassah learns of the all consuming illness Julia has contracted and knows that God is leading her back to Julia in order to continue her work trying to make Julia understand the salvation God can offer regardless of her past transgressions.
Through the whole book, you are rooting for everyone to be able to find the salvation they need and to be able to see God as clearly as Hadassah.
I finished listening to this book last night with a glow of utter satisfaction, but also an ache of regret at needing to bid farewell to the characters I'd come to love so well.Are you the impatient type?
Yes, it's just a fictional story, but it does what G.K. Chesterton once explained as the value of fairy tales.[It paints a clear picture showing] that these shapeless enemies have enemies in the knights of God, that there is something in the universe more mystical than darkness and stronger than fear.Marcus Valerian believe the love of his life has been killed by lions in a Roman arena, the victim of his sister's mindless rage and petty jealousy.
The only reason why I got as far into this book before quiting is because I was listening to the audio version during my commute.
While I did know that this would be a novel about historical Christianity, I did not know that the author had such an ax to grind.
The 3 books of the sires could have been condensed into 1 w/out the re-hashing of biblical stories we all know.
The Christians in the story were kind to a fault, loving & perfect examples of human beings.
The only exception was those who were obviously going to become Christian before the end of the book.
This book continues and ends the saga of Hadassah, but focuses more on the struggles of the people she's comes into contact with.
Everything about her is perfect and shames the average reader into realizing how paltry their own faith is in comparison.Marcus, the rich hottie with daddy issues from the last book goes on a journey of self discovery that takes him back to Hadassah's homeland.
He has no idea that Haddassah serves beneath his roof, caring for his selfish sister who has an STD...the little harlot!Anyway, he eventually finds out who the curious healer in his home has been and is still in love with Haddassah and wants to marry her.
wow. These are so wonderful and I couldn't express all my love in one simple review. just read these. please.
After reading the first book in this series, I was excited to continue the series to find out what happens to Hassadah.
While reading, I noticed that I found myself thinking, "Yeah, yeah, you said that two paragraphs ago" again and again.
However, I was pleased to hear how Hassadah's story ended.
Now, however, I must read book 3.
I'm not so excited, though, because I don't think that Hassadah will be in it!
I think that she's the glue that held the first two books together.
I believe I liked An a Echo in the Darkness better than A Voice in the Wind! Both are awesome and incredible but everything came together in this one.  This story is about Marcus's journey. But never fear Hadassah is definitely in it! This series is so incredible! And the ending is ... Umph!... Awesome!! Read it! Or miss out...
This booked was very frustrating and ridiculous. I actually liked book 1 but when everything gets tied up in a neat bow at the end it made me crazy. When Julia is baptized and the mother comes out of a coma. Then Hadassah has 10 children. Please! The woman could barely walk a block yet she bears ten kids.
The first book had me captured to an extent that I couldn't hardly put it down.
This book was very, very good; however, I didn't feel that tension that was making me want to explode with anger at Julia and certain of the other characters.
I didn't like Alexander or Rishid.
Alexander bothered me, perhaps because I wanted her to end up with Marcus, and he was simply getting in the way.
Even in the first book, I loved her.
Overall, it was such an enjoyable book that left me feeling completely satisfied.
Love these books, can't wait to read the next one.
I give book 1 & 2 a big fat 10!
I actually wished I had stopped there and let the story simmer before continuing to book 3.
(Book 3 is really about other characters that were not as endearing to me.) This was the most spiritually moving story I've ever read!
These two books can actually be life changing.
These are not preachy books yet the story is written in a way that makes you reflect on your own spirituality or lack thereof.
Francine Rivers did it again with this sequel.
The Lord had spoken to two random characters in their dreams and told them to give specific instructions to Marcus and were also given specific instructions.
I'm not saying the Lord can't/won't/or hasn't spoken to people in dreams before and maybe me being unimpressed is just a flaw in my own faith.
Other then that, I am thankful for this book and have nothing but praise.
It is a brilliant book and an awesome sequel saturated with biblical truths.
I think I like this book more than the first.
It shared the gospel and the struggles of receiving the gospel.
I also was encouraged by the teaching of this book.
Reading this book, you get more than you would a year of church in some cases.
It plainly showed how in life what surrending to God's will looks like.
The characters were not cheesey but with real struggles, looking for real answers.
And as always, I enjoyed the history behind it as well.
I would encourage anyone looking for answers to read this book and the bonus it will keep you engaged.
Did not dissapoint!! I feel like I come away a better person after reading Francine's books. For this second book, I was reminded of God's command to love- a love not spurred on by our feelings but by obedience to the Lord. I was reminded that all things work together for good for those that love God and are called according to His purpose. Highly recommend the Mark of the Lion series!
1st read - 20102nd read - June 20123rd read - July 2016If you need me, I'll just be here...weeping. So, so beautiful. Full review HERE!
Loved it! I love the story of Marcus and Hadassah and how far they've come and what they have overcome with Christ. This series is definitely one of my all-time favorites!
;)**There is a discussion between two characters, about why God would allow a servant of His to be killed while being faithful to Him..."If a centurion ordered a legionnaire to go into battle, would he not go?" The other character relpies "x wasn't a soldier", (and here it is....
I'm not sure I follow this!**And my final thought, a part of the book that really spoke to me, because I often struggle with forgiving things in my past.
I feel that I have, but then I get angry again...A character in the book is struggling with forgiveness and says that God asks too much, and here is the response that was like a slap in the face to me...
The combination of a few strong characters that I really cared about, with the sense of catharsis which comes from neatly tied off plot lines, was enough for me to enjoy the novel as I read through it.On the negative side, however, there were again several things that rubbed me the wrong way.
So I don't have a problem with the fact that the book clearly and simply laid out Christian truth (we're sinners, Jesus died for us, we simply need to trust in him, etc...), but I did have trouble with the fact that too often the lives of the characters were cut and dried.
Hidden behind veils to cover her scars, Hadassah still represents Christ well, loving those around her and making a difference in the lives of those who see no hope.
And who is this mysterious woman who reminds her so much of Hadassah?Phoebe loves God. But she is grieved.
Or will they continue to not see that their selfish ways can only lead to destruction?As much as I hesitate to recommend the first one for those who don't have a strong stomach, it would be rather difficult to really grasp the story in this second book without having read the first one as this is truly a continuation of it.
I won't give away any spoilers, but I distinctly remember reading this on the T in Boston and missing my stop because I was so enthralled and wrapped up in the story of Marcus's journey.
This is definitely Christian fiction, though, and the author makes a very clear distinction between the behaviors of her Christian and non-Christian characters...almost to a fault.
There really aren't any characters that are likeable and non-Christian, but it's her prerogative I suppose.
I could take or leave Book 3 as a part of the trilogy, but it's still an interesting read.
I loved this second book in the Mark of the Lion series! It started off with a surprise and kept me absolutely captivated through the entire book. I'm really fascinated by the cultures in this time period and really enjoyed the journey through this book. I also thought the author handled the various issues very realistically without being too heavy handed. After my horror at the way the first book ended, I got my HEA with this one!
This is a soul-forming series, especially books 1 & 2 which feature Hadessah. The main character, Hadessah, provides my mental architype of Godly submissiveness - even to those in authority who are unjust. I've spent many hours meditating on these truths... these books truly strengthened my walk with Jesus.
ذلك لانك لم تعد من هذا العالم "فأنت " جندية في جيش من نوع اخر جيش يخوض حربا روحية لتحرير القلب البشري وفي تلك الحرب تفوز مشيئة الله "ومهما كان ما دعاك الي الرب " لماذا عاد صدى كلماتها بهذا الوضوح الى الحياة هنا في مكان الموت والخراب ؟ "تاكد ان " ان الصدى في الظلام ما كان قط صوتها بل كان صوت الله مناديا اياي غير تارك اياه يرحل "
The fact that Marcus and Hadassah didn't have it easy makes the story interesting.Like the first book, this one is very well-researched and written, and I enjoyed reading about the life of the gladiators.
I was actually surprised to learn about what happens to people who barely survive the gladiator arena, it was fascinating.
It was gratifying to see Hadassah gain a second chance after what she had been through, and also to see what happens to Julia - despite her being a brat, I can't help but feel bad for her.
الجزء التانى من علامة الاسد حيث تستكمل فرانسين ريفرز ما نقص بالجزء الول لتخبرنا عبر رواية طويلة جدا 
YES YES YESSSSSFRANCINE RIVERS IS A NOVEL GENIUS!!Some things I loved about this book-------------------------------SPOILERS----------------------------------------JULIA - I felt bad for Julia all throughout this book, but I was so so happy about how her story ended, (although it would have been MUCH better if Atretes married her but....)HADASSAH - YES SHE LIVES!!!
The only thing I did NOT like about her was that she told Julia she was alive and not Marcus!!!!!!
>=00000000MARCUS - Dude needs some new life prioritiesALEXANDER - Honestly, I would not mind a Halexander ship.
They're cute togetherRASHID - MY BOY RASHID!!!
I LOVE RASHIIIIIIDDDDD!!!!!!Well, that's about it.
