https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/289601.A_Certain_Slant_of_Light
The author did a fantastic job of minding the formal speech and thought patterns of Helen's background and contrasting them with the jarring reality of present day, all while ruminating on human existence and forgiveness and the value of a life well-lived.
This is an exceptionally intelligent YA book that does not spare the emotions of love and grief and the heavy weight of responsibility.
I'm astounded by the places this book was bold enough to explore, and I am deeply satisfied with how the story was resolved.
It's truly remarkable when an author can make a ghost feel so eloquently and painfully human.
This is a book I've had sitting on my shelf for over a year, I'd heard plenty of good things about it but still remained sceptical* about the whole ghosts + romance thing. Eh, really? Ghosts are somewhere down near zombies on the sexiness scale, could I really become invested in such a relationship? Apparently yes, but these ghosts have found a way around the whole touching predicament (and wasted no time getting back into it) by possessing the bodies of people whose souls have abandoned them.I
Apparently yes, but these ghosts have found a way around the whole touching predicament (and wasted no time getting back into it) by possessing the bodies of people whose souls have abandoned them.I have read some of the negative reviews on A Certain Slant of Light and the thing most often pointed out is something which usually annoys me: the way Helen and James fall so quickly in love and have sex after only meeting each other a few times.
Sad to say, nothing in this story touched me in any way, and in fact it's one of the worst books I've read in 2011 so far, filled with ham-fisted stereotypes and unbelievable character actions.Whitcomb actually had a fairly interesting premise starting out.
Her current host is a senior high English teacher, Mr. Brown, and it is in his class that she realizes that there is, in fact, someone who sees her.This is where the story disintegrated into a cliched, stereotypical YA teen-angst drama.
And it makes it especially *cool* that Helen now inhabits the 15 year old body of a virgin whose parents fulfil every cliche of religious nut cases, (
I started this book the day the world ended.
So while I was rolling around on the ground suffering from texting withdrawl, a thought occurred to me: Go read a book, you idjit!
To say I loved this book would be a severe understatement.
Everything, especially the ending, was just perfect.
Initially, I thought this book would scare the crap out of me, with the creepy cover and all.
I read Laura Whitcomb's book The Fetch first, and I loved it, even though this novel is more universally loved.
seeing as most unplanned sequels aren't, but even if its half as good, I'll still love it.
I don't think I would have read this book if it wasn't recommended to me.
I am just not that into ghosts.
However this book is so much more than that.
It is about love and finding peace and happiness in your (after)life.
The motives of forbidden and impossible love and "body snatching" reminded me strongly of certain Stephenie Meyer novels we all know, but SM's books seem to a be pile of mediocrity in comparison to A Certain Slant of Light.
I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in quality literature.
I think that’s very understandable, but as the time passes, I don’t feel that they really stop to consider the ramifications of what they’re doing to these bodies.
I wasn’t buying it Helen!), and some of the minor characters seem like counterpoints that the author has set up as if to say “See how garish and lewd these people are?
I think that this story would ring true for me if these characters were fifteen and seventeen years old, as their hosts are.
And they also tend to confuse lust for love, which I feel like these two characters are guilty of.
It's just a beautiful story of fated romance no matter what your age.
A CERTAIN SLANT OF LIGHT tells the story of a girl named Helen who's been dead for a 130 years.
It's in his classroom that she meets James, the first person able to see her since she died.James was "light" until recently when he took over the body of his host during his drug overdose.
Eventually James convinces Helen that she should also inhabit a host so that they can both be human and together they choose Jenny.
The only problem with Jenny is that her parents are religious fanatics and James's host Billy is a former drug addict with questionable friends.
A Certain Slant of Light is often disturbing and very heavy as far as paranormal books go, but it's also a beautiful story of facing the past to find the future, and its characters, though not always likable, are understandable and captivating.
Haha (hide spoiler)] But this is fiction so I'll take the disturbing and roll with it, and I still quite enjoyed the story.It's hard to explain what the book is about without getting spoiler-y.
It's more of a love story than anything else, but there is still a bit of suspense and mystery.
Although it's not your usual love story, or even ghost story, that you find in YA novels.
So this isn't an action packed novel; it's a story of love and self discovery that you sit, ponder and enjoy.The writing is magnificent.
I also loved the poetic and dark aspect of the story.
It wasn't riveting or necessarily suspenseful, although it was filled with incredibly unique descriptions from a ghost's point of view, that if I didn't know any better, I would sincerely believe the author actually spent time as one.
Helen is a ghost and for the first time in 130 years, human eyes are looking at her.
Helen is terrified and also unnerved by the fact that he can see her; but she also finds herself incredibly intrigued.
The author intertwines modern-day dysfunction with 130 year old history, to develop a surreal yet difficult to imagine kindredship amoungst her hero and heroine; all the while making it believable.
Two ghosts who are the only other ghosts each other has ever known would of course feel a spiritual connection to one another.
I'm just not sure that that has to be resolved by inhabiting earthly bodies for constant kissing and sexing, y'know?The technicalities and sensations (or lack thereof) of being in the middle place between life and afterlife were interesting, though, and I absolutely adored the development at the end, when we learn more about what Helen had on Earth.
Without spoiling anything, there is a relationship that Helen had in her earthly life that I was much more interested in than anything she did as Jenny.
TBR Reduction Challange #4 (Kirsten)I have never read anything like this before!I must admit that it took me some time to get used to the whole concept of body snatching and that I could never really shake the feeling that James and Helen were doing something wrong by inhabiting those "empty" bodies but nevertheless, after about 50 pages I was completely hooked.
I loved seeing how James and Helen experienced how it is to be alive again, I was sick to my stomach whenever I read about Jen’s parents and their twisted believes, I was creeped out by Jen’s father and was dying to know what he was hiding from his family and I was constantly afraid that another one of Billy’s hidden packages would show up and that something awful would happen.
Now this was an actual ghost story.
It took me a while to understand the title, I am so slow sometimes, but when I finally got it, I was like, ok that's clever.The silence in this book absolutely reminded me of the one in Never Let me Go, it's gorgeous.
The writing in this book is so nuanced, everything is so subtle, nothing is spelled out.
That she did it with such understanding of ghosts and their humans, is what makes this such a delight to read.
On the other hand, I have always thought of writers as ghosts.
WOW, just WOW!!!!This is a story of a Spirit, Light as named in the book.
Helen must kill Jenny's personal demons, but on this quest she finds out she must kill her own.
I have to admit it took me to about page 100 to really understand and get into it, but WHAM after that it was on like donkey kong!!If you are a YA reader, I am Screaming at you to pick this one up!!!If you are interested in Spirits, Wraiths, etc., but not to the point of being scary...
pick it up!!!If you want a different book, that is hauntingly beautiful...
Helen and James have their own special situation and instead of calling it insta-love I would consider it more of an extreme fascination with one another as they are the only ones of their 'species' as they called it.
That type of extra little touch really helped make this a very special book.This is a novel about love but it's mostly about learning to forgive yourself for the very reason Helen and James were still on Earth to find each other was because they hadn't relived their final moments in order to forgive themselves for the actions they made.
She finds herself stuck between earth and hell, knowing that something about how she died is keeping her from heaven.
She finds out that it's not really the student who sees her but James, the ghost inhabiting the student's body.
James also finds himself stuck.
Of course the two ghosts fall in love, and James helps Helen find another abandoned body to inhabit.
It does leave some "what now?" questions at the end, but even those situations are hopeful, and you know that even if the characters have some tough times ahead of them, they're going to be ok, and better off than they were.
Ugh. So many things I hate about this book.
Newsflash, Helen: the reason you didn't get into heaven is because you suck!
It's not a badly written book-parts of it are actually quite beautiful.
But the plot fills me with so much rage!!!
For example, right after you and your ghost boyfriend have sex during your free period at school, you tell your mom that he's a gentleman.
First of all, gentlemen don't skip class to do it with you in the auditorium.
Possessed people/ghost sex is just disgusting, and I really, really hate this book for it.
HATE.
They begin to spend time together and Helen needs to find an empty body of her own in order to be with James.
(Example; (view spoiler)[the day after Helen takes Jenny's body, the first time she sees James they immediately start making out and have sex in the auditorium.I get it, you're both dead and you've never met your own kind before and you're adults, but GEEZ.
I would recommend it to people who aren't disturbed by adults having sex in children's bodies and religion being a big part of the book.
He's not haunting people but places (actually one place in particular) and one day he sees a teenage boy, Billy Blake, whose soul has left his body, so he enters him and starts living his life as Billy.The connection between Helen and James is strong and (of course) they fall in love/lust with each other.
And after a while they realize that the body snatching has an impact on other people in Billy's and Jenny's life.
When Helen went into Jenny's body it felt a bit more like a YA book, but it was still an adult book.
I was told it is a modern ghost story.
And yes, I will admit Helen haunts people, or rather, attaches herself to certain people.
So I want to make it clear, this isn't a spooky ghost story.
It doesn't take much to like Helen, she's kind, sweet and has a love of literature.
Helen doesn't even know why because she is only able to remember a few small details of her life here on earth.
Also, even though I'm not a huge fan of romantic story lines, I really like the one in this book.
You've got Helen and James' super natural story, then you've got Jenny and Billy's more grounded one.
Billy, a drug-abuser from a broken home, and Jenny, who's family is rigidly strict in their religious practices.
I could really feel Jenny's loneliness and despair living in a religiously oppressive household.
I couldn't help but find myself feeling a little stifled while following alongside Helen as she was forced to go through the motions of portraying Jenny while she was with her family.
I have to admit, Helen's emotional journey of finally letting go in the end actually had me reaching for the tissues.
A Certain Slant of Light is both a pleasant surprise and...not.
On one hand, I am incredibly impressed with Whitcomb's story.
Helen and James, the couple in question, are ghosts left behind in the Light, having been dead for nearly 130 years.
Furthermore, she never hesitates to answer many of the moral questions that possession brings up and the entire plot of this novel is nothing short of brilliant.
On the other hand, though, I couldn't really connect with the characters.
I can't say where A Certain Slant of Light went wrong, but I doubt I'll be picking up the companion novel to this anytime soon.
There are a few reasons why I decided to give this novel a 5 star rating.
I cannot say that about many books.2.
The story is unique.
The characters are as well.
Overall, I've never read anything like it.3.
I adore the main character (Helen) and her James.4.
It's poetic and lovely to read.5.
I couldn't put this book down.
Not such a good idea.Overall, I really enjoyed this story.
It's not perfect and it's a little overly melodramatic, but it's beautifully written, completely unique, and a very satisfying read.
I highly recommend this novel.
5 Haunting Stars!It took a few pages before the book grabbed me and then it didn't let go. A very emotional read and so different from anything I've read. To summarize it without giving anything away I would say it was about two souls saving two souls. Loved it!
Whitcomb seamlessly blends literary, fantasy, and even a bit of gothic horror. The writing is beautifully poetic but not florid, and the humanity of the ghost protagonist comes through so clearly it was easy to identify with her pain and desires.
This is one of those books that you will remember years from now. It's a very original concept for a romantic YA novel. Just, lovely.
Parasites use human bodies and impregnate a 15-year old girl. That's this book. And we're supposed to like the parasites.
Allerdings hat Helen nicht bedacht, dass sie nicht nur einen fremden Körper sondern auch ein fremdes Leben angenommen hat und das birgt das ein oder andere Geheimnis.Lang und breitEigentlich hätte „A Certain Slant Of Light“ eine romantische, leicht tragische Geistergeschichte sein können.
Da muss man doch hier und da etwas aufgeschnappt haben.Auch mit ihrem Liebsten James, der den Körper des Jungen Billy besetzt, konnte ich mich nicht anfreunden.
Auch wenn sie „leer“ waren, Billys Körper gehört immer noch Billy und wenn er beschließt sich in den Tod zu koksen, ist das seine Entscheidung und James hat kein Recht einfach seinen Körper und damit Billys Leben zu übernehmen.Noch schlimmer finde ich, was die beiden anschließend mit den Körpern anstellen.
It just makes you happy to read about them being happy ;)But to me the romance wasn't even the best thing about this book.
well, these children do exist and I wish for their parents to read this book.What made me end up with 3 stars rather than 4 was that Helen really did act a tiny tad too stupid at times just so that she would provoke a new conflict and the ending, which somehow wasn't really my thing, but that doesn't mean it was bad.
It's a really good book from beginning to end, and very beautifully written.However, I cannot recommend this book if you're looking for some light reading or simply for a cute romance.
3.5 stars.I liked this tale of two lurid lovers, but I didn't enjoy it enough to give it a higher rating.Laura Whitcomb's writing was wonderful, considering A Certain Slant of Light is her debut novel.
It's sensational yet sweet, hair-raising yet unhurried - there were a few quotes I took special notice of but now regret not writing down.
Nevertheless A Certain Slant of Light can only be truly understood by a reader possessing an open mind and the maturity to handle some serious stuff, so if that doesn't sound like you, I would avoid this book.
