https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7100490-the-forbidden-game
To lure Jenny in his world, Julian tricks her and 6 of her friends to play The Game, where all of them have to face their most horrific nightmares.
Jenny has to find the Shadow Man's base in order to free her friends and to be released from the promise she has given Julian in the previous game.
I found this book less entertaining than "The Hunter." It took almost half of the book for Julian to appear, the game itself was much weaker, we didn't learn anything new about the Shadow World, and there was too little interaction between Jenny and Julian.
I cannot resist an excuse to buddy-read with the oh-so-lovely  Heather .... start date TBD December 1.AND, I do what I want ;)This is another L.J. Smith 3-in-1, like Dark Visions, and I feel like lump reviewing these books is kind of unfair! Ergo, I will do a 3-in-1 review as I go! Because ......^^.... that's right I do what I want.  The Hunter:  3.5 StarsRight from the beginning of this series Smith engages me.... opening on a scene of Jenny, our MC, being followed by two men down a dark street
start date TBD December 1.AND, I do what I want ;)This is another L.J. Smith 3-in-1, like Dark Visions, and I feel like lump reviewing these books is kind of unfair!
We get to experience how The Game has affected our characters, for the better or worse.And, yup, I HATE Tom. HATE!
And while I will forgive any, and all, these characters for varying youthful mistakes and misunderstandings I find it so difficult to understand how Tom goes from one extreme side of poor behaviour to another, also extreme, side of poor behaviour so entirely.
It’s rather psychotic to be honest.I love how monstrous Julian becomes in this Game.
I remember sneaking it into school and reading it during English class, feeling like such a nerd rebel.
Now that I'm older, it kind of reminds me of Labyrinth, with David Bowie.
Why that's such a problem is beyond me...Summary is kind of stupid, but the book is so good.
I've read it so much over the years that the binding is coming loose.
After I finished this the first time, my tween self was like, "This is the HOTTEST thing I've ever read!
Sigh..." I was sad to finish.
Even today, it brings about school girl giddy feelings in me.
Jenny can be a bit TOO good sometimes though, and with Julian you have a love/hate relationship with.
Especially seeing as they have such different personalities.I really liked Tom and wished he hadn't been so annoying in the second book.
I like Jenny and his relationship though, and the fact that he would die to protect her.
:)I liked Michael's and Audrey's relationship too.
Oh, God. If you've read the book, you know what I'm talking about.
So I guess that's good.I liked the characters, plot, writing and a lot more.
Jeez. I sobbed at the end. When I was 14 years old.
What is amazing about this series is how easy it would be for L.j .Smith to have given into fans and just let Julian have Jenny and turn her into a prop.
Instead, Jenny grew stronger as a character - something that the feminist in me loves.
Her friends are not merely props to make Jenny look better, in fact, they have their own subtext and growth.
Tom, the boyfriend, isn't made to look like some abusive boyfriend, but learns to appreciate Jenny.
The explanation for his attitude towards life, and his love for Jenny is exemplary.
Finally finished the entire trilogy, and overall, 4 STARS. I must say, this is one of the better YA novels that I've read. I would recommend this read for younger teens for optimal enjoyment, but don't let that stop you if you're an adult. This one volume contains three books, each with its own plot and story. Here my reactions for each book as I finish: The Hunter This story begins when Jenny stumbles into a shop to buy a game for her boyfriend's birthday. She is greeted by an inhumanly beautif
This one volume contains three books, each with its own plot and story.
This story begins when Jenny stumbles into a shop to buy a game for her boyfriend's birthday.
The interactions between Julian and Jenny are balancing acts that teeter between fear and intrigue.
Story rating: 3.5 to 4 stars
We get to know about the Shadow World, Julian, and the Shadow Men. Jenny at the end of this book is a very different from the person in the first.
Story rating: 4 starsOverall, 4 STARS for this entire volume and highly recommended for younger teens.
The Forbidden Game by LJ Smith is my favourite series of books by this author.I was heartbroken when I ran out of LJ Smith books to read - LJ Smith has been one of my favourite YA novelists in my lifetime, and it's always hard to put her novels down.
I'm addicting to her style of writing (even as an adult).This book was definitely your typical YA series all wrapped up in one - teenage characters with teenage problems, but are the special people that have to deal with this specific problem, "The Game".
And I know Julian, who is the main hero of the book, is evil, but he’s so hot!
Of course, right at the end, the choice he made to walk with her, though he didn’t truly believe, was the perfect example of his love for her.
I hated it cos I felt that it wasn’t a happy ending and I love books with happy endings.
But I loved it so much because of what Julian said to Jenny.
Jenny grew to love Julian in the end, I’m sure of that.
To me, the ending is worth reading all 3 books just to see it.
I will always give The Forbidden Game five stars.Since I'm not writing a proper review, I'm going to share a story that hopefully illustrates my love for this series.I took ceramics in college; it was a required class for art majors.
Lots of twine for Yggdrasil, which isn't mentioned in the series, but I thought it necessary.)As you can see, this is not just any toy.
And here I am, sharing the story of my dorkiness for the world to read.At least I managed to ace those classes.Before I go, here is my Julian.
The Forbidden Games is split into three parts the hunter, the chase and the kill and centres on a young girl Jenny who decide's to get a game to bring to a party.
What she doesnt know is what is involved playing the game and how much Julian control's the game.The book right from the start went at a million miles an hour with a breif lull in the second part that built up to a touching and emotional ending.
The book has many other themes as well like the connectection between Jenny's grandfather and what happens and what Julian is.Overall i found The Forbidden Game a very good read the only real criticism being that at times it was a tad predictable.
I've been sitting here staring at the screen for over an hour trying to decide how to put how I feel right now in words; I'll try my best.I have read a lot of books and given 5 stars for several of them...
After reading this, I think I need to go back and change all those books to 3 stars.
As much as I hate it, I think the ending is what gave the book so much impact.Quick notes:-Like I said, I think the book played out how it needed to.
My friends kept telling me how amazing this book is, and how much I had to read it.
As I was reading the hunter, I was telling myself, "oh hey this is pretty good!" But when I got to the chase, I was wondering when this book would end.
When you tell yourself that, you know that the book really isn't a hit for you.
Especially Tom. He was the most annoying of all.
But she was too proud to see that Tom was not good for her  (hide spoiler)] Although I didn't like it, it doesn't mean that whoever's reading this won't like it either.
I cannot tell you how many novels or series I've read where the characters don't change  at all  from the beginning to the end, but I had no qualms about that in  The Forbidden Game.
L.J. Smith's  The Forbidden Game  is the first novel of hers that I have read, but it most certainly will not be my last.
If you don't find yourself enjoying this, then you're definitely reading the wrong book, so pick up a copy of  The Forbidden Game  because it is one story that will never disappoint!
It is nasty magic but it is awesome when you thing about it!CHARACTERS: The lead character of the trilogy is Jenny, she actually reminded me a lot of Elena.
There are also Jenny's sidekick friend: Dee, Audrey, Zack, Michael, Summer and her love forever Tom. I was very jumping between who I liked when it come to the friends and in the end I must admit that none of them seemed very special.
LOVE: I would like to say there was a love triangle in the trilogy among Jenny Tom and Julian but I would be not exactly on it.
From the way it was written, I can say that Jenny was a highly realistic character, believable and someone you could feel emphatic towards.
The "villain" is a "shadow man" called Julian, who plays a very important part in the book and in Jenny's own history.
Later in the series, Julian learns that he isn't all that he thinks he is.To conclude, I thought this book should be read by everyone who wants a good read - let it be out of boredom, enthusiasm or force - and that everyone will get captured by Smith's words, just like Jenny and her friends in the book (people who read it will understand).
Oh my poor little heart, I love Julian to piece.(view spoiler)[And the end made me cry my heart hurt. ugh. He love her that much, why it has to be like this! why Why WHY??? *sobs* (hide spoiler)] Proper review to come...Anyway, why you have to read this?  Julian.  One word, nuf said.
I hate this book so much that I love it. Who in their right mind would make Jenny like Tom and not Julian?!? Julian is fantastic while Tom comes off as a strange chauvinistic pig. I love Julian. He's like a small, cute child who keeps getting caught with his hand in the cookie jar.
Strangely, it's character descriptions.Jenny: hair like honey, eyes as green as pine needles, straight eyebrows like two decisive brush strokesDee: long arms as strong as a boy'sAudrey: spiky, copper colored bangsZach: cool gray eyesTom: dark brown hair and a rakish smileSummer: lots of flower comparisons, including her cornflower blue eyesMichael: warm brown Spaniel eyesNote that many of those are actual quotes from the book, that I can recall from memory.
2 stars.Well, I really shouldn't be rating this, since I only read the first 2 books and couldn't even get into the third...but here I am.
The idea of the whole "Game" was intriguing - and that's what kept me reading for the entirety of the first book.
Unfortunately, the characters were so flat and immature that once I started the second book, I couldn't look past that.
The only character that I somewhat liked was, Julian - and I'm not even supposed to like him.
If I read another book where the character keeps saying, " Oh, my, God" every other page - it will be too soon.
I recommend reading all three books in this trilogy right after each other in order to fully appreciate the story, which is exciting, creepy, and emotionally-charged.
The first two books are very fast-paced (actually all three are) and end with cliffhangers, and the third book finally ties everything together.
But it isn't until the third book that you get a better glimpse into the villain, who is juicy but also scary and it's hard to sympathize with him.
I might even say that the plot is a bit too fast-paced and I would've liked more one-on-one time with Jenny and Julian.
This book has one of my favorite endings of any series.
This would be a 5 star series if I didn't find all the characters so lame. The story, plot and how it all comes together is great to watch. Unfortunately it goes on and on with the same characters in the next books. The one exception that got me to read the other two books was Julian. He is a little creepy lurker at times. (& honestly what does he see in Jenny. She annoys me to no end.)My reaction to this series. Gif ThanksConflicting. Yes I know.
Rating: 2.5/5 stars to be precise.Full review (or maybe a rant) will be updated as soon as school holiday starts. Update as promised  Let's me start off with the prose of the three books. I don't like it. To me, the prose was just adequate, annoying at times, even. Upon reading the books, I found the style to be quite childish- I know that the trilogy is YA but it seems to me that it aims more towards tweens. When I was reading the book, it gave off a nostalgic vibe and kinda transported me back
It wasn't excellent or anything, but the scattered appearances of Julian spurs me to read on.
But still, I won't react like how Jenny does- whose ego is too big that it barricades her better judgment even when subconsciously she knows that Julian would be good for her and she would be good for him.Alright, that's a lot of ranting (but I did warn you).
Now, if it wasn't for Julian, I wouldn't bother to keep reading.
Julian, Jenny doesn't deserve you (view spoiler)[ why the fuck did you die for her?
But, judging by the good things I'd heard about this trilogy, I had high hopes for Jenny and Julian's interactions in the other books.The Chase: This one scared the living daylights out of me at some points, because I was reading it in a silent house in the middle of the night (probably my own fault, but I couldn't stop reading).
The thing I probably liked most of all about The Chase was that it didn't suffer from middle-of-a-trilogy syndrome, like so many others have.
I liked Jenny even more, I loved Tom, and Julian.
The first book was fairly interesting, with the premise being that evil spirits tricked Jenny into buying and playing a board game that was real.
What I mean by this is that Jenny has to be pretty foolish or reprehensible to keep allowing herself to melt all over Julien because he does things that are too evil to be countenanced by anyone sane.
She has enough sense not to, even though she's much more foolish over fairy tales and castles than I have any reason to believe Jenny is.Anyway, worse than this is the fact that each succeeding book has a less and less interesting 'game' to play and the magic just feels tacked on and silly.
Dang this was my JAM back in the day! Julian was hands down the best psycho/hero/villain/love interest teen fiction had to offer, and my younger self lapped it up. Really, is there even another character that can hold a flame next to him? (Maybe....just MAYBE Keiran from Fear Me, although he did piss me off sometimes).
She throws a party for her boyfriend and buys a game from a beautiful, alien-like boy named Julian.
As you may guess, Julian is a supernatural who is madly, deeply, insanely in love with her and has been since she was a child.All of this may seem off-putting, but ignore that.
Maybe because I read it with a good soundtrack on my Discman, but it stayed with me.Jenny toes the line of being a perfect character.
Her conflict between her boyfriend, Tommy, and the compelling Julian is believable.
Tommy and Julian try hard to be the reason for compelling her actions, and they fail.
O. MY. GOSH.my life is complete now that i have read this book.My absolute favorite character was Julian, he brought an essence of scariness but hotness to it all.Hated tom, and i wanted to slap Jenny every time she thought about him.I bawled so freaking hard at the end of the book, (my mascara was running)I wish Julian and Jenny could have been together.This is my all time favorite book!
4.5 ster. even huilen. JULIAN.
I couldnt stop crying at the end Why me I had so many expectations I had imagined a beautiful ending
