https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42900.Lover_Awakened
5 Fuck I love Z Stars "I...I can't get clean. I don't want you to get dirty, too." He lifted his wrist and blood oozed down from his forearm. "See? Look at the dirt. It's all over me. Inside of me." -ZSpoilersFirst read 2014 Reread 3/26/2017"When I was..." She cleared her throat. "When I was in that hole in the ground, I thought of you. I wanted you to come for me. I knew you could get me out." His brows went down even though his lids were lowered. "I thought of you, too." "You did?" His chin mo
I just want to say that Lover Awakened is one of my top 5 favorite books of all times!!!
It's one of those books you read straight through and then when you finish it you wish you could delete it from your head so you can enjoy discovering it all over again.
I don't know how J.R. Ward does it but she somehow writes these books that bring to life this exciting, dark, and sexy world filled with heroes that I fall madly in love with.
I loved the way Bella needed only Z.
“I was dead until you found me, though I breathed. I was sightless, though I could see. And then you came… and I was awakened.”  Beautiful.Don't know what more to say about this book. Amazing and beautiful and those 5 stars don't do it justice.Z is definitely my favorite BDB Brother <3  "He couldn’t stand to have anyone put their hands to him…though he wished he’d let Bella find a piece of his flesh just once. With her, he might have been able to handle it."  The story**this will be spoiler
Bella has been held for six weeks by a deranged lesser maniac person, endured lots of horrible stuff, and thought she would die there without anyone knowing what happened to her.After she is rescued, she clings to Z and doesn't want to leave him.It takes her some time to realise what happened to Z when he was a slave, and she wants to help him get over it.As the book goes on, Bella falls in love with Zsadist (of course), and she happens to find herself in a terrible situation where she needs his help badly...
My dear friend Karla and I went on this emotional roller coaster of a ride together. It was so much fun and I enjoyed every minute! Her unique way with words and her humor kept me in stitches. Thank you sweet Karla for reading this with me and to all our friends for their encouragement along the way!Whew...What a story! There is no way I can do a review and do justice to this book. Zsadist's story was everything and more that I was told. I have fallen hard for another one of JRW's brothers! Be
Thank you sweet Karla for reading this with me and to all our friends for their encouragement along the way!Whew...What a story!
Bella is so easy to love and I admired her inner strength and her determination.Portions of their story are absolutely sizzling hot and heart wrenching!
And last but in no way least, there is a scene that had me gulping in total, shocked, didn’t see that coming surprise!While this was an amazing, intense and emotional read, and one that I loved, I needed more Zsadist and Bella alone time.
I think it's high time to get my favourite antediluvian beast out of extinction:Good doggy.Believe it or not, the main problem with this thing book is NOT that it is PNR.
Well, as 99.99% of PNR novels, it is indeed silly and OTT and slightly ridiculous.
Unlike this literary masterpiece here, some books can actually be silly, OTT, ridiculous and NOT STUPID.
Well I could tell you that it is silly and OTT and ridiculous and slightly stupid, but I think I might have already said that, so it's better if I don't repeat myself, right?
5 THOUSAND BELOVED-NALLA STARS!!! I've read this book countless times, but this is my first review. Zsadist is my 5th favorite book man ever!!!  ...even though his face was harsh, his voice was so soft and beautiful, like the candle flame.  A dark musk with an evergreen spice. My Zsadist:Zsadist is a tortured soul, the darkest of the Brothers, the meanest. After spending a hundred years as a blood and sex slave, he has nothing left to give anyone, and he can barely stay alive for himself. He has
Zsadist is my 5th favorite book man ever!!!
But the hatred he had he would channel for Bella until the last breath left his lungs.
She saves Zsadist from death.
I love her devotion to Z!!
Their love is...Gah!!!
There isn't another love like theirs.
He pushes her away so many times, but he cannot resist her love because she gives so much of herself to him.
I LOVE the ending to this book!
I love Z to death, but Bella makes this book so much better, and she contributes her own badass-ness to this ending!In conclusion...I love Zsadist!!!!
(Yayz!) Profoundly psychologically damaged after several years of torture, abuse and slavery at the hands of an evil female vampire, he spends most of his time moping about, feeling angry, and hating his gignormous penis for causing all this trouble.
He likes to beat himself to get off, but then he hates himself for getting off.
We also get some lovely flashbacks to Zsadist being tortured and abused (of course).
Also, the soliloquies where Zsadist is hating on his penis are pretty amazing.
Seriously, there are guide books sold to help readers understand this universe!
Don't jump--"~ZSADIST YOU BROKE MY HEART~This is an amazing book and my favourite in the series.
LOVER AWAKENED tells the agonizingly painful story of Zsadist, a former blood slave and most feared member of the Blackdagger Brotherhood.
After Zsadist rescues the beautiful, aristocrat Bella from the Lessoning Society's torture facility she refuses to leave his side (or bed.) Craving the strength and security she now finds only with him.
Phury as Zsadist's twin plays a major role here, and through a series of flashbacks we learn the details of Z's enslavement and Phury's daring rescue of him.
From the moment of rescue Zsadist won't let anyone else near Bella.
Jesus, I hated Zsadist before this book.
You see a much darker side of him that is painful and I feel ashamed to say that I am captivated by him.
Knowing him, that is the last thing he would want.
And I respect him more for that.This is one of the more darker books of the series.
It's content is brooding and involves a lot of self-loathing.
A lot of Phury's story is told here as well.
Damn, the thing he goes through for his brother...
Also, John seems to be growing up already in this book.
“I was dead until you found me, though I breathed. I was sightless, though I could see. And then you came...and I was awakened.”  This is the best of the series. Zsadist is a real tortured hero. What he has been through shatters my heart. And Bella, she is a savior of this broken man. She has fire in her heart, especially when he tries to push her away, she resists. That's why I love her. That's why I love this book so damn much ! “He knew he was being overbearing as hell, but he couldn't help
And then you came...and I was awakened.” 
She has fire in her heart, especially when he tries to push her away, she resists.
That's why I love this book so damn much !
I cried many times while I was reading.
Z has a soft heart if I stare hard enough.
He think he was broken by his former master, so he doesn't deserve anything.
J.R. Ward mastered this book immaculately from the start to the end.
My hope was too high before reading this, and she didn't make me down even a little.
Lover Awakened is beyond perfection.
4 1/2 stars "Everyone" has already read this book, so I'm just going to rant a bit...Zsadist had me intrigued since I read Dark Lover, because he was pretty much an outcast within the Brotherhood and I knew there had to be something "good" inside him. I also knew that his story would be "scary" (for lack of a better word) and, boy, I was not mistaken! I thought Sin MacAllister from Kinley MacGregor's Born in Sin was the most tortured hero in Romancelandia but, compared to Z's, Sin's life was a m
"Everyone" has already read this book, so I'm just going to rant a bit...Zsadist had me intrigued since I read Dark Lover, because he was pretty much an outcast within the Brotherhood and I knew there had to be something "good" inside him.
Based on some comments I'd heard before reading this book, I knew (view spoiler)[Wellsie was going to die, (hide spoiler)] but that didn't make me less unhappy when the time came.As it happened in the previous book, Lover Eternal, I didn't care for the scenes with the lessers in this book either and I wish Ms. Ward stopped giving them so much "screen time".
To me, a cliffhanger means ending the book with an unsatisfying shocker that leaves your reader nearly in pain but eager for the next installment (ie Karen Marie Moning’s Fever series which I’m still twitching in anticipation for!) But in Lover Eternal, the fact that Bella had been kidnapped by a bad guy and had not yet been recovered is not even mentioned at the very end.
Zsadist had complete meltdowns on numerous occasions and when Bella finally leaned in and kissed him for the very first time, I almost fell off the couch.
My favorite scene from the book: (view spoiler)[He glanced back down at the pencil in his hand and then turned to the table.
As his arms came around her with hesitation, as if he didn't have any idea what she was doing or why, she wept openly.In all her preparations for this meeting, the one thing she had never considered was that the two of them might have some sort of future.When he tilted up her chin and looked down at her she tried to smile, but the crazy hope she felt was too heavy and joyous a burden."I didn't mean to make you cry—""Oh, God… Zsadist, I love you."His eyes flared so wide, his brows nearly hit his hairline.
$1.99 on September 28, 2017 US Amazon.This is my second time reading this book.
Although there was way too many side-plots and other POVs, I'm still going to keep my original rating.I loved Z's back story, even though it was sad and horrible.
Set up for the following books.
I never like the "sidebar" scenes - I just want the MEAT of the story.
And Z and Bella's story is still great.Original re-read post: I'm in a serious book slump and they always say to either read something completely different or re-read a favorite.
So, I'm going with re-read a favorite.
Plot: 5 starsCharacters: 5 starsWriting: 5 starsSexiness: 4 starsEnding: 5 starsOverall: 4.8 starsI've fallen in love with Zsadist :)
But breaking in was never as simple as it seemed.I love The Black Dagger Brotherhood series (even though I don’t normally read the genre), but I delayed continuing the series for a long time due to the book length.
Even though the books are long, they certainly worth every words.
He was surprisingly endearing, and paired with his past, I just can’t help but falling in love with him.
His story was a prominent secondary story chronicling his growing pains.
I can’t wait to see how things are going to evolve from here.Books in the series:
Zhadist and Bella   “What is your name?" she murmured.He cocked an eyebrow at her and then went back to staring at his brother. "I'm the evil one, in case you haven't figured it out.""I wanted your name, not your calling.""Being a bastard's more of a compulsion, really. And it's Zsadist. I am Zsadist.” (From Lover Eternal)  This is how Bella and Zhadist were introduced and one thing that you have to learn about the BDB is that all the books are connected somehow. So, when you open Lover Awakened
This is how Bella and Zhadist were introduced and one thing that you have to learn about the BDB is that all the books are connected somehow.
So, when you open Lover Awakened, you will realize that the two main characters have already started their love fairytale in the previous book and in Lover Awakened, they will be finally together.It will not be easy for them to be together, because Bella is missing.
And he will be more than willing.Zhadist and Bella is one the favorite couples in Black Dagger Brotherhood.
Nevertheless, Zhadist and Bella have one of the strongest bonds in comparison to the other couples.
5 STARS!!!!! And I thought it couldn’t get any better than Rhage’s book... I was wrong! Z’s story was just beautiful. I loved it! Reader beware... If you haven’t read the first two books, there may be some small spoilers. “I'm not broken, I'm ruined. Do you understand the difference? With broken maybe you can fix things. Ruined? All you can do is wait to bury me.”   (Just add the scar and this is my PERFECT Z) Zsadist is the broken warrior of the BDB. He had a different upbringing than the rest
We learn much more about Z’s ugly past and why he feels the way he does.
Then when he finds out (view spoiler)[Bella is with his child :D (hide spoiler)] he knows he has to do even more.
There is a lot more going on besides Bella and Z’s story of course...
(hide spoiler)]This was truly one of the most beautiful stories I have ever read.
If the rest of the series is even half as good as this book, then I can’t wait to get to it!
Can’t wait to see more Zsadist and Bella (view spoiler)[and child (hide spoiler)] In the future books!!!
I have enjoyed the first 2 books in this series but was highly anticipating this one.
Z seemed like such a tortured hero in the previous books.
“I was dead until you found me, though I breathed.
I was sightless, though I could see.
And then you came...and I was awakened.” It would take a strong woman to save Zsadist.
But then again, I think the women I have met so far are strong – ya hear me, Irene?
“Z: "You know, this was a hell of a lot easier when you were out cold in the back of that truck."
“Z: "You know, this was a hell of a lot easier when you were out cold in the back of that truck."Phury: "That was you?"Z:"You think it was Santa Claus or some shit?”
“She is more beautiful than I have words for.
“I… What are you saying, Zsadist?" she stammered, even though she'd heard every word.He glanced back down at the pencil in his hand and then turned to the table.
In a child's uneven block letters there were three words: I LOVE YOUHer lips flattened tight as her eyes stung.
I mean… I know that you don't… feel that for me anymore.
OH FREAKIN VIRGIN ! P.S:It's a book reference...I swear I'm not being weird.. ;) I AM IN LOVE WITH THIS BOOK !! AND THAT TWIST IN THE END !! (view spoiler)[Bella's brother and the drug dealer are the same person !!! (hide spoiler)] I FEEL SO STUPID FOR NOT SEEING THAT COMING...lol...XD  Even though it's true....I STILL think I need Atleast a 24 hour break to recover from reading all THREE books in a stretch.Lol...it sure was one heck of a ride ! ["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Never do a review like this, but, this is my fans letter to Zsadist , hero of Lover Awakened :D (okay, Roarke, Raphael, Bones, Eidolon, and all my harem, I'll do love letter for you all.
You have Bella's heart at that moment you write " I love You" to her (and my heart too)And you have the best BDB quote ever : I was dead until you found me, though I breathed.
forever.From your #1 FansRenNote : And thanks to J.R.Ward to write the best book of BDB series.
5 ZSADIST-IS-MINE-AND-MINE-ONLY STARS!When i finally received Lover Awakened in my mail.. I almost fainted of excitement because as most of you know Zsadist is my favorite brother in the BDB.Did his book reach my expectations?  Meet then my Zsadist and Bella...  Zsadist. He is the most terrifying and scarred member of the black dagger brotherhood. Zsadist has a lot of demons from his past that just won't let go of him no matter what. Renowned for his unquenchable fury and sinister deeds, he is a
I almost fainted of excitement because as most of you know Zsadist is my favorite brother in the BDB.Did his book reach my expectations?
Meet then my Zsadist and Bella...
Bella knows there is much more to him than ugly scars and violence he is so well known for.
What i thought of Zsadist and Bella?:
Bella didn't annoy me and i understood Zsadist perfectly.
There were a few complications to their relationship - like Zsadist pushing Bella away.
My heart was clenching in pain everytime i read about how mean, and unfair everyone was to Zsadist.
The Brotherhood has me in laughter and tears in equal measure and this book showcases it to a fine art.Once again great story telling, a little more angsty and gritty and I found myself more nervous of the outcome of Zsadists journey, lets say 'on the edge of your seat' reading experience.There wasn't much if anything at all that i didn't LOVE about this book, but my favourite scene was the First kiss.
Sorry for the late review :/ I was too overwhelmed with happiness when I finished XD  SPOILERS EVERYWHERE! READ AT YOUR OWN RISK! If I could, I would give this one 1,ooo FUCKING stars! "'I was dead until you found me, though I breathed. I was sightless, though I could see. And then you came... and I was awakened.'" I. Am. Utterly. Speechless.Well, in a good way of course.  "And diamond were eternal, weren't they? They lasted forever. Just like his memories of her." Okay, let me talk about the en
Okay, let me talk about the ending first, since that is what I remember most XD I really found it romantic when Zsadist was trying to learn to read and write.
Remember when Zsadist trying to learn to read and write melted my heart, well this completely burned my heart.
Again, I could write a 10 paragraph essay on how good Zsadist and Bella are but eh.
Like Bella and Zsadist, I could give you a whole essay on how much I hate O but I ain't gonna bother because pieces of shit like him deserve fucking nothing.
Family portrait!Zsadist, Phury, Tohrment, Wrath, Rhage, Vishous, ButchI admire all of you who read BDB when it was first released and had to wait a year between each book.
I can only imagine the anticipation as you waited a year for the next book to be released.
*thumbs up*Even though this book is almost a decade old it has all the elements we as romance readers love:♥ protective alpha male♥ conflict♥ sexy time♥ imperfect characters (blind, mute, dark past, etc...)♥ forbidden romanceThe bonding moments between the twins tore at my hearts.
To find out when The Shadows will be released and if there will be more books in the series click here.Novellas:
5/5 stars “I was dead until you found me, though I breathed. I was sightless, though I could see. And then you came...and I was awakened.”  Oh. My. Gosh! I am completely speechless, spellbound and unable to think a single coherent thought. It was just so breathtakingly amazing!! It's as if every single great thing about the first two books was made 100 times greater and then put into this single book of pure perfection. This is without a doubt my favourite book of the year so far and definitely
This is without a doubt my favourite book of the year so far and definitely the bets book of this series!Since I was at such a loss for words I thought maybe gifs would be better at portraying my feelings!
Scenes like this just broke my heart!In each of my reviews for these books, I mention how much I love the brotherhood and other three-dimensional and intriguing characters.
By far the best moment in the book was the ending scenes with confessions of love and hope for the future.
“If you could only see the way she loves meThen maybe you would understand Why I feel this way about our loveAnd what I must doIf you could only see how blue her eyes can be When she saysWhen she says she loves me”(Lyrics from “If you could only see” by Tonic)Don’t be a tragedy, Bella I am a woman who loves her contradictory characters.
Normally I loathe romance stories where one, or both, of the parties feel some ridiculous need to push the person they love away from them; here however I understand it.
If I hear someone say "what's doing?" in real life, I'm pretty sure I will punch them in the face. I'm upset.I'm back to being on the fence with this series, again. The problems I had with this were the same as I had with the first book - the lazy writing style! You get a point of view chapter, your second cousin twice removed gets a point of view chapter, EVERYBODY GETS A POINT OF VIEW CHAPTER.  There was goodness in here, I had a severe case of the feels with all the Z backstory and the shit h
Sure, some of this is due to him and Bella doing the ermegerd we can't actually communicate our feelings so the other one must totally hate me/want me to bond with his brother/never see me again/was never attracted to me at all thing, but in general the love story took a backseat in this book.
And I phucking love cheese, so that's saying something.Z gets all the stars, the rest of the story gets -100 for being a regurgitation of the first one.2.5 magic-healing-vagina StarsThanks for the buddy read Heather!
5 Stars!!!OMG this book was the BEST book in the Black Dagger Brotherhood series yet!!There was so much drama and angst and it hurt so much to put the book down and continue with life when I had to :(So...into the details!This book was about the brother Zsadist!
So unfortunately Zsadist was a blood slave for this terrible woman and she REALLY fucked him up...so much that he "lost his soul" and his eyes turned a lifeless black.Also, the book gives us some details about Phury and his relationship with Zsadist.
during one moment in the book I was like FUCK YEA and that was when Butch denied Marissa after she shut him down so many times.
Bella is another heroine I actually liked.
I thought she and Zsadist were so well written and perfect for one another.I have to say that the backstory in this book is so interesting.
Phury's inner torment has me so intrigued....and actually one of my favorite characters is John.
I think they deserve some happiness.I still liked Rhage the best...whew what a man!
Wrath is right up there too...although I now have a pretty special place in my heart for Zsadist...he deserved his happy ending...and I am so glad he found it with Bella.
5++ stars - Vampire RomanceLover Awakened is my top favorite in the BDB series. Zsadist is my most beloved brother/warrior and Bella is a darling BDB heroine. The love story between Zsadist and Bella is touching and heart-wrenching. Zsadist is a tortured soul worthy of redemption, and Bella's fight for him and for their love is ultimately what saves them both. I LOVE this book! I'd give it much higher than a 5 star rating if I could! I wish J.R. Ward would give us more of Zsadist and Bella's story. The BDB series continues to mesmerize!
