https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16843.Prater_Violet
The central character is a film director Friedrich Bergmann (based on Berthold Viertel).
I believed as one believes one will die … It was unreal because I couldn’t imagine anything beyond it; I refused to imagine anything: just as a spectator refuse to imagine what is behind the scenery in the theatre, The outbreak of war, like the moment of death crossed my perspective of the future like a wall; it marked the instant, total end of my imagined world.”Isherwood’s description of life in a film studio is also telling;"It will interest you, as a phenomenon.
Meglio illudersi che non accadrà.
Meglio non pensare allo scoppio di una guerra europea.
Quando poi Hitler rifiuterà di scomparire, allora l’inglese aprirà il suo ombrello e dirà: “Dopo tutto, che può farmi un po’ di pioggia?”.
Perché certa “leggerezza” tanto leggera non è.“Che cosa ti spinge a vivere?
Perché non ti ammazzi?
Che cosa te lo fa sopportare?Potevo rispondere a una domanda del genere?
Si fa la cosa che viene dopo nell’elenco.
Non le paure che tutti conoscono, le paure cui si fa pubblicità, ma quelle più terribili: le paure segrete dell’infanzia.
Che cosa facciamo qui?».

Isherwood, himself in the novel as novice scriptwriter, and his new acquaintance the German film director Bergmann, during their first lunch with the studio head Chatsworth:The cigar somehow completed Chatsworth.
In the mid30s, Bergmann has fled to Vienna with his family, leaving all his money and possessions in Nazi Germany.
Our horrific news from Sudan and Yemen and Afghanistan mirrored by news from Belgium and Austria and Poland and...people continuing to make movies like--take your pick.Isherwood wrote (or at least published) this right after the war, and his Bergmann predicts all the disaster that looms in front of Europe.
I found PRATER VIOLET an engaging novella that effectively satirizes the making of movies in the 1930s.
The first-person narrator, "Christopher Isherwood," is a close adjunct to the author, and not above having a bit of fun with the making of a cloying studio movie set in "Olde" Vienna whose director is worried sick about the onslaught of fascism in the real Vienna, where his close relatives are marooned.
The movie studio is set in London but much of the plot could apply to the Hollywood studios of the Thirties as well.
Not a major Isherwood novel but so much fun it doesn't matter.
We are like two married men who meet in a whorehouse."Prater Violet, the novel, is largely a character study of Bergmann, who sees both the tragedy and absurdity of his situation, pouring his energy into a ridiculous comedy while danger looms over his family and the world.
It's surprising more for stylistic and thematic reasons.(view spoiler)[All through the book, we learn a great deal about Bergmann, but less of Isherwood.
The silly comedy that Bergmann reluctantly poured his creative energies into didn't turn out to be a great work of art.
POST-READ:Christopher speaks:"There is one question that we seldom ask each other directly: it is too brutal.
What makes you bear it ?Could I answer that question about myself ?
No.Yes. Perhaps..." And so Christopher does answer the question/s.
And a trite Viennese musical is undergoing production in London under the baton of a larger than life Austrian Jew who detests his fairy floss creation,while his wife and daughter face peril in the real Vienna.
We follow the writing process and part of the movie production of "Prater Violet" – probably inspired of Isherwood’s (i.e. the real Isherwood) own experience as a screenwriter in the 1930s.The story is also about the friendship between Isherwood and Bergmann.
Isherwood is a true master of setting, tone, characters and writing.
One of the things that really cracked me up was his description of himself as a fictional character: An arrogant, whiny, lazy little prat.
So all in all, Prater Violet was an entertaining and unusual little story.
A gemlike novella with a satiric tone that belies the existential heft at its center. Isherwood's language is fresh, his characters well-drawn, and the sociopolitical context is incorporated into the plot without didacticism or expository language. At the very end the narrator engages in a bit of woo woo existential pondering that would be cringe-worthy in lesser hands, but Isherwood handles it perfectly. Prater Violet really is flawless.
This book completely revitalized me. It's economy of language and precise plotting were refreshing and educational. I highly recommend it to anybody interested in novels that revolve around a central absence, here the impending outbreak of WWII as told through the sieve of a meaningless romantic-comedy.If you liked this, make sure to follow me on Goodreads for more reviews!
How do you make art when the world is collapsing into ruin?
With the perspective of hindsight, Christopher Isherwood fictionalizes his experience of working as a writer on a film directed in England by an Austrian film director in the midst of the Nazi unrest (and ultimate Nazi takeover) in Austria.
In the typical Isherwoodian style (sharp studies of odd characters, complex plots, "I am a camera" style of observation; a blend of fiction and nonfiction; sharp wit), Isherwood explores art and creativity, the politics of the 1930s, the film industry of the same period, and what it meant to be a writer and a screenwriter.
Atmospheric and encapsulated in situations that are often deeper than implied. This book is an interesting study about the connection between art, politics and personnel relationships.
Prater Violet is the best book about being Jewish (except perhaps for Man's Search for Meaning by Viktor Frankl...) Also, it's the finest Isherwood book I've read, and I'm a lover of his words.
Isherwood was -- it's now believed -- a great diarist, but couldn't create literary structure.
On a second level, it's a remembrance of 1938, of Kristallnacht, of the threat of Hitler suddenly becoming real -- for the politically astute, a daily nightmare.
Ultimately, the book is about Isherwood himself, shaking off his English provinciality and becoming a man.
Prater Violet confronts this question.
Although Prater Violet is a quick read which might seem inconsequential next to the resonating I-Was-There-When Berlin Stories, it nevertheless retains the stylistic attributes that characterize Isherwood's engaging talents as an author.
Set, as with The Berlin Stories, during Hitler's rise to power, Isherwood (the character--not the writer) is able to observe from the sidelines, involved in, but never truly of the action.
Never fully immersed in either sphere, he floats along unfettered, a natural narrator who allows us to observe the story taking place as if almost through our own eyes.
Isherwood is the weird third in a trio with Sebald and Bolaño.
Like them, he watches the faces of his characters for the ripples of world events, convinced that they have some access to authentic experience that he lacks.
Like them, you wonder about his humility sometimes, whether he doesn't secretly think that he, as the chronicler, is the one with privileged access to the authentic.
Here he experiences the suppression of the socialist movement in Vienna and the beginnings of the Second World War through his collaboration with an Austrian emigré director on a fluffy melodrama about a Viennese flower seller being filmed in London.
"The whole beauty of the film" I announced to my mother and Richard next morning at breakfast, "is that it has a certain fixed speed.
The author can't stop you from skimming it, or starting at the last chapter and reading it backwards.
There's the film, and you have to look at it as the director wants you to look at it.
He makes his points, one after another, and he allows you a certain number of seconds or minutes to grasp each one.
You see, the film really like a sort of infernal machine .
Witty and entertaining. Such a masterpiece.
Published by Methuen & Co Ltd This was my first experience of Christopher Isherwood. Or rather, of his writing. I was well aware of him before now. My close friends had read his work and always talked highly of him. I had seen the movies “Cabaret” (1972) and “A Single Man”(2009) – both of which were based on his novels and both of which I had thoroughly enjoyed. I knew that he was a great friend of the poet W.H. Auden and I knew that Gore Vidal had described him as “The best prose wr
These ‘moods’ come about inconveniently for the studio as the director’s thoughts turn, understandably and increasingly often, to his endangered family and his endangered homeland as Europe teeters perilously towards the Second World War.The novel, though perfectly plausible as a piece of non-fiction/autobiography given what we know about Isherwood’s life as a novelist and Hollywood screenwriter, is actually a fictionalised first-person account which was written looking back at the 1933-34 period from the hindsight of 1945.
In Jonathan Fryer’s biography of Isherwood, imaginatively titled “Isherwood: A Biography” (1977), he asserts that “Prater Violet” came out of Isherwood’s experience working as a screenwriter on the movie “Little Friend” (1934) for British Gaumont.
I loved how, in addition to the central interactions between Bergmann and the fictionalized Isherwood, a whole world behind this brief story is hinted at, is fed to the reader sideways-- the further vast workings of the film industry, the interior lives of each technician and secretary, the hint of the past with Ashmeade, and most hugely, the hulking terror of Hitler and World War II.
In general, it's quick and light and contemplative, but the story really opens up and swallows you at the end.Well, gotta go read more Isherwood now.
Podría atreverme a calificar a esta obra como "una sencilla novelita de la Posguerra"; sin embargo su sencillez y ese diminutivo afectuoso podrían resultar engañosos para el potencial lector: este libro pertenece a esa literatura "informal" que tan bien cultivaran Montaigne, Dickens y Conrad, por citar solo algunos.Aquí, Christopher Isherwood (que también es el protagonista) es contrado por los estudios cinematográficos El Bulldog Imperial para escribir un guión: La violeta del Prater (el Prater es un parque público en Viena) que será dirigida por Friedrich Bergmann.
Su lectura es muy recomendable, además de fácil y rápida; sin embargo no sé qué tan fácil sea conseguir la (vieja) edición de Alianza o la del Conaculta en su colección Fin de Siglo.
Despite the comedy of much of this short book, the story is powerful for its portrayal of Europeans gradually realizing that war (WWII) is approaching.My experience reading this was moving in that the copy I borrowed from the library happened to have been issued in 1945.
It was a very small hardcover edition with very thin pages; the inside cover declared:THIS IS A WARTIME BOOKIt is manufactured under emergency conditions and complies with the Government’s request to conserve essential materials in every possible way.So the war felt especially present as I turned the delicate pages of this youthfully-written book.
The world is always in transition and we are always confronted with the impossibility of feeling everything that assaults is through media, friendships, journalism and our own experience. This novel tackles those deep and desperate frustrations with wise and tired eyes, alternately bringing comfort and pain. A deeply powerful read for so short a book.
Man, have I missed Isherwood. I love his barely-there-fictionalizations and his veiled nonfiction and everything in between. Prater Violet is a super quick read, and mostly a light one, until the end, when WWII begins to steam into view and Isherwood allows himself the commentary and empathy we've all been waiting for. More, please.
A wonderful wonderful novella satirizing the film and writing industries. Why didn't I read this gem of a book earlier?
It’s an interesting feature of his work that he blurs the line between memoir and fiction.As in Goodbye to Berlin, in Prater Violet Isherwood writes in the first person as a character named Christopher Isherwood and bases the tale on his own experience, in this case, his first foray into film.
The character of Isherwood is only slightly less successful, perhaps because one has seen the type of the effete university-educated product of a middle-class home unable to act on his sympathy for the down-trodden before (most recently, in my case, in the author's Berlin collection).
Un libro strano per certi versi, che però sottolinea la grandezza di Isherwood come autore.
Ambientato a Londra poco prima dello scoppio della seconda guerra mondiale, narra del modo con cui viene girato un film.
Come i grandi temi della vita, la morte, la guerra, l’amore vengano spesso vissuti sullo sfondo di una sorta di commedia che si astrae dalla realtà.
Una lettura facile e veloce, simpatica in superficie, ma che nelle ultime pagine risuona di una sonora critica alla realtà umana.
E ci parla di Isherwood stesso come uomo e amante.
Della vita.
A short, insightful read. It's fascinating to hear about the film making process of the thirties in London. The more serious underlying narrative is the growing unrest due to the rise of Hitler, accessed through Bergmann's worries about his country and family, and, by the end, Isherwood's reaction to this looming catastrophe. But again you're left feeling that Isherwood has erased or deliberately disguised himself. He's a conduit for the story, not to be looked at. The reader is more looking through his eyes.
Entertaining, light, funny. Quick listen. Isherwood is a fine author capturing a moment in the English film industry of the 1930s.As a classic film fan, I loved the inside jokes. Example: "...I've seen the Russian film. It is the classic sex triangle between a girl with thick legs, a boy, and a tractor."
Christopher'ın kelimeleri sayesinde okurun Bergman ile kuracağı kurgusal dostluk bir ayrıcalık! Sayfalar ilerledikçe Lawrence'ın da katılımıyla kitabın düşüncesi iyice zenginlik kazandı. Anlaşılır kısa cümleler, açık ve net anlatım. Okur dünyasının her zaman buna ihtiyacı var. O yüzden;Herkese menekşeler benden!
ben bu kitabi sevemedim. Halbuki Cumhuriyet' in kitap ekinin 2016 yilinin kitaplarinin arasindaydi. Bir eksiklik var. Yani bu kitabi okumadan once birseyi bilmek gerekiyormus gibi geldi. Googreads de diger yabanci okurlarin yorumlarina baktim herkes bayilmis. Ama farkli kulturlerde ortak degerler yada ortak hisler bence cok onemli. Yarim biraktim hic keyif vermedi. Belki sonra...
