https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/263601.The_Berenstain_Bears_and_Too_Much_Junk_Food
This is a good story.
It is also a speck preachy...
or more than a speck.
Junk food is too much around us and I always want it.
So, the story has a true message, a good message.
The candy does look so colorful and it made me want junk food.There is a little bit of body shaming in this one, but this is an 80s mindset.
This feels more like a Jan Berenstain idea.The kids like these books and they have fun with them.
They thought it was a great book and it made them want candy also.
I've read some of the other Berenstain books recently to my children, and they've been ok, but when I found this little gem (sarcasm), I was stunned.When I was in nutrition school, and even more so since then, I have come to realize how many food issues people have, and how many of those issues are surrounded by feelings of guilt.
Brother and Sister were going to have to stop eating all that junk food"So, basically Mama bear wants her kids to stop eating junk food because they're getting "chubbier", not because she cares about their health.
He had split the seat of his overalls wide open."Again, with the body shaming!
This book is filled with unrealistic portrayals of current healthcare.It really all starts when their family doctor sees them at the grocery store and "invites" them to an appointment tomorrow.
A family of 4 walks into the doctor and the BOOM!
$20 copay, BOOM!
$20 copay, BOOM!
$20 copay, BOOM!
In all the books ive read Ive NEVER seen Papa sell any furniture, and Mamas quilting business seems to have gone under, making me think that they probably don't have that great of insurance.
All a scam to get a family to spend a buttload of money on an unnecessary appointment.While I'm at it, who the hell is Mama Bear to judge others.
I have loved this book ever since I was little because I felt like I could relate to it.
I loved junk food as a kid and still do as an adult, the book teaches a lesson that I may not have learned when I was little but am starting to understand now.
I love all of the Berenstain Bears Books and had most of the series by the time I reached the age 10.
These books teach great lessons to young children and make it easy to relate to children and young adults.
"let's celebrate by opening up the freezer!"
My parents must have been sick of reading this book to me as a child.
I STILL knew half of the words from memory-- that's how much I loved it-- but revisiting this, I'm not sure why I was so enchanted.
While the overall intention is good (eat healthy food, not junk), it basically just instructs kids to not get fat by eating too many cheese puffs.
While childhood obesity is indeed a timely topic, I didn't appreciate the condescending tone of this (and I'm sure many other Berenstain) books.
Didn't assume too much intelligence on the part of kid readers.
The Berenstain Bears have a little problem with junk food, or rather in particular Papa, Brother, and Sister, Mama seems immune to the lures of the candy and popcorn and chips.
Considering the state of a large chunk of both our youth and adults in this country this makes a great light read about cutting out a little bit of the excess, getting back to “healthy and nourishing” food, and a making time for a bit of exercise.
The bears show us how easy it is with a little support and a plan to get back into shape and a realistic way to stay there.
Arg with the body shaming in kids' junk food books!
The thing with this book is that the back half is actually good; the family goes to the doctor and learns about the various systems in the body (like the nervous system, bone structure, digestive tracts, etc.) and there are illustrations that are just right for kids.
Even the fact that alternative snacks are spelled out so that it's not just "eat better" but "here's what eating better can look like" and the acknowledgement that the transition is hard (the cubs really want their sweet stuff as they're getting used to the new foods) are really strong parts of this book.But the whole of it kicks off with Mama Bear looking at her family and thinking them fat, an observation reinforced by the local doctor at the freaking grocery store.
This one, however, gets a review because it's a very good example of what a dolt Papa always seems to be in these books.
Mama calls all the shots and Papa just follows along.
Papa's like a precursor to Homer Simpson except that The Simpsons doesn't try to teach life lessons.
At least this newer series doesn't attempt to rhyme like the ones I read when I was an early reader.I'll keep getting these books out for my son because he loves them, but when he's not looking, I pepper the stack with books I've picked out for him.
A good idea for a book but now it's dated and includes a lot of conversations that are now viewed as inappropriate. There is so much information - too much almost about body image being important when general health matters much more! Just didn't give me good feelings and led to serious discussions with my daughter about the way her body looks not being anywhere near as important as its health status which includes her mental health and being happy and feeling good and being healthy and able to be active.
Although the story means well, it's not nearly as good as I remembered. The plot falls in the unfortunate, lazy "Mama is always right, Papa is a dolt and lumped in with the kids" trap along with too many others from the series. I don't care for how all junk food is dismissed outright; it is more realistic to introduce enjoying treats both in moderation and on special occasions in addition to primarily eating healthy.
My 8-year-old really liked this book but his school focuses on healthy eating so he's okay with giving up junk food. My favorite part was when Papa Bear wanted to know what he could drink if he couldn't drink his Sweetsie-Cola. Mama Bear replied, "Try this. It's called water." As a parent, I liked the overall message of this book. It emphasized healthy eating and exercise.
I think it's a good book and it talks about not eating so much junk and they're growing and it talks about eating healthy and doing exercise. And it's a good book.
I just like to wallow in all the pictures of junk food overindulgence.A sad early warning of the demise of Cookie Monster.
Correct me if I'm wrong, but shouldn't bears be naturally...stout?Well, Papa Bear is definitely a little on the paunchy side, and the cubs were definitely not eating well, so a change definitely needed to be made.
Might I suggest it start with Mama Bear, who shouldn't have bought all the junk food in the first place?
And somehow I don't see how a trip to the doctor to look at pictures of the digestive system will make everyone take up jogging...But while the book isn't necessarily realistic, it's needed.
I'd been happy initially to see the Bears talk about junk food.
We are big Berenstain Bear fans and this is one of our favorites!
Oh the childhood memories this brings back.
Their refrigerator is filled with junk food and the mother bear is the only one who really cares about eating healthy.
Mother bear decides to empty their refrigerator and go to the market with the whole family to buy healthy food.
There are many times children may want to eat junk food and not eat regular healthy meals, so this book could be a short, but informative text that explains to them the importance in a easy understandable way.
I like how this book was about the bear family, but it relates to humans and especially easy for children to understand the theme of healthy eating.
What a great way to tell the young about eating healthy food and exercise.
Mama Bear lays down the law when she notices that Papa and the cubs are getting too chubby.
From the Inside Flap Mama Bear lays down the law when she notices that Papa and the cubs are getting too chubby.
About the Author Stan and Jan Berenstain were both born in 1923 in Philadelphia.
They didn't know each other as children, but met later at school, at the Philadelphia College of Art.
Over 50 children's books later, Stan and Jan still plan all of their books together -- both write the stories, and both write the pictures.
After the mama bear notices a change in size and personality of both her husband and kids, she decides to take away certain privileges such as sweet snacks, and too much television.
The illustrations in this book are important because the subject of body health can be sensitive to certain people.
The illustrator also gives the bears a slightly rounder body while they are making unhealthy choices, and a straighter figure after they make the change.This book has the potential to reach out to many kids and show them the negative effects of eating too much junk food and not exercising regularly as well as the positive effects of eating healthy and being active.
Mama Bear observes that her cubs have been eating a lot of junk food and are beginning to get a bit chubby.
She shuts away the junk food in the freezer, and whisks the family away to see Dr. Grizzly, who shows them a slideshow to teach them that it’s important to eat healthy foods, and, as they’re leaving, enjoins them to exercise, as well.The cubs are all too enthusiastic about their new diet (much as, in 
Junk food is unhealthy, it adds on unnecessary weight and can lead to early onset of various diseases. Mother knows she's got to turn her family's bad eating habits around.
This book tells about how to eat healthily and what can happen when you eat unhealthily. This book has some great advice. DRA Levels: 10Lexile Measures: BR-240Presentation, Voice, Word Choice, Organization
The bears entertain us in another book from their series and help these children learn a valuable lesson about eating healthy.Written by Stan BerenstainPublished in 1985 by Random House Books for Young ChildrenRecommendations/Awards: none Audience: Read together or read alone: grades K-4Genre: Picture Book series Illustrations: The illustrations in this story are very colorful.
They are great books to read because they teach each child a valuable lesson that all should learn.
Sometimes it's easier for them to relate to characters in a story, which is why they help teach lessons.
In this book, the Berenstain Bears learn about healthy living.
Even though they are delicious, the bears begin to feel the negative effects of what they are eating.
They go to the doctor and learn that the cure for their symptoms is exercise and healthy eating.
The bear family makes the difficult transition to healthy living and they benefit immensely from it.
The combination of these qualities makes this a great read for children.
This is a great book for teaching children about the importance of healthy living.
In a classroom, it would be a great addition to a unit on the importance of healthy eating or exercise.
The Berenstain Bears and Too Much Junk Food is a realistic fiction book aimed at children of primary to intermediate ages 4-10.
This story is about a family of bears (Mama, Papa, Sister, Brother) who are encouraged to change their eating habits to become healthier and lose weight.
This book translates a very positive message about the effects of eating healthy.
This is an excellent story for teaching children the importance of healthy eating habits.
After reading this book I would have a discussion with the children, having them give me examples of healthy and unhealthy foods.
I like this book because it is about the two young siblings and how all they want to eat is junkfood, but everyone knows that is not the healthiest thing, especially for growing children.
It’s funny because most kids only want to eat sweets and don’t understand the importance of a healthy diet.
I think that kids really enjoy this because of the author’s humor and it is relatable to them!
At first, you can see the characters enjoying what they are eating until it catches up with them.
Each page is pull of detail and you can really see the characters emotions all throughout.
A common problem with kids and adults alike nowadays is the unhealthy diet that a lot of people have acquired.
Mama gets the doctor to show them a slide show of what is happening to their bodies and decides she should throw away all the junk food from the house.
She replaces all the junk food with healthy alternatives and breaks the habit of eating junk food.
This is an important lesson and a valuable method to replace junk food from a household.
It takes a lot of will power and will be tough at first but eventually eating healthy became a preferred thing for the whole family.
This book was about a family of bears, the Berenstain bears, Mamma bear tells her family that they’ve been eating too many sweets and have been going to the chubby side.
This is a great story to read and use in the classroom because it teaches an awesome lesson about eating healthy, something many kids may struggle with.
It uses creative pictures to show how eating too much junk food is bad for you, so I think that his book would be great to read to young kids.
The Berenstain bears and too much junk food.
