https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1193728.A_History_of_Philosophy_Volume_2

As a Thomist, he is dealing in this volume with the philosophies he is most interested in and knowledgeable about, and he gives much more detail on the period than other more secular histories.
The philosophers he emphasizes (devotes multiple chapters to) are Augustine (6 chapters), John Scotus Eriugena (2), Bonaventure (5), Thomas Aquinas (11) and Duns Scotus (6); he also gives shorter accounts of many other philosophers.
The major weakness is the concentration on Christian philosophers; the treatment of the Islamic and Jewish philosophers is extremely sketchy, particularly for such important thinkers as Avicenna and Averroes.

This is enormously readable and fun, aside from Freddie's unclean attraction to the word "propaedeutic".
He steers what I find to be a good middle ground between trying to dredge up every auteur whose works have ever been found and focusing solely on a handful of top names.
Thus Augustine, Erigena, and Bonaventure get multiple chapters, while several thinkers go by in between, but we do get a page or five or more to actually get to know the thought of each one adduced in some reasonable measure, and there is a clear sense of connection and development.
تعداد زیادی از آن ها در زمره ی علم وارد شده اند و از حوزه ی فلسفه خارج.
فلسفه ی این دوره همان طور که انتظار می رود به شدت تحت تاثیر کلام مسیحیت است.
نباید منتظر فلسفه ای به معنای امروزی آن بود.
البته حرکتی کند در جهت فلسفه ی مستقل در همین قرن آغاز می شود و رشد می کند که متاثر از ارسطو است.
با کلی نگاه کردن برخی روندهای جالب مانند عناصر جهان سنتی را می توان در این کتاب ردیابی کرد.
در کل فلسفه ی این دوره را می توان فلسفه ی دین زده یا دین یاور نامید.
This is most certainly true: Father Copleston begins with a consideration of early Christian philosophy (whether or not one would call the early Christians "philosophers" in the true sense is, in my mind, debatable; most certainly some of the Ante-Nicene fathers are more philosophic than others), through (of course) Augustine and ending with Duns Scotus.
But, most certainly, I do not think this should be too much of a bother, since often the only philosopher given any attention at all from these eleven centuries is Aquinas.It is, of course, a necessary read for anyone who wishes to attain at least a basic grounding of the history of philosophy.
very good 2016 start :D :D :D
This was a very good, comprehensive overview of the philosophy of the Middle Ages, focused especially on the period from Augustine of Hippo to Duns Scotus, but touching on some areas outside of that as well.
Thomas Aquinas, of course, takes up the largest chunk of the book of any of the philosophers covered.
My first complaint is that Coplestone is a bit of a dry writer.
Aristotle, the favorite ancient of most of the Middle Ages in the West, is a dry philosopher.
My other complaint is that Coplestone spends too much time trying to justify the philosophers rather than letting them speak for themselves.
In case you're confused, Goodreads has these two books (in my early 1960s, pre-ISBN edition) listed as separate editions of the single History of Philosophy Volume 2, which I can only assume was usually published as a single huge tome.
My two "read dates" are the first half and the second half.The author sounds like a confirmed Thomist, and yet he actually made me aware of a great many criticisms of Thomas' actual claims and arguments.
After reading Lonergan treating Scotus as his private punching dummy, I found the Scotist chapters in this book were very sympathetic.
In fairness, I read the first half of the book; St. Thomas Aquinas will have to wait until I can properly devote time to him. I picked this book up for its section on Sts. Augustine and Bonaventure. Copleston presents these historical thinkers in a clear and lucid manner, and his books make decent references for their philosophy. It is unfortunate that St. Bonaventure's philosophical material is so difficult to find in English.
Lots of untranslated Latin - caveat lector. For a nonbeliever, the author's priorities can be frustrating (obviously God, soul, metaphysics most of all) but his Thomism was the reason I undertook to read this series - to get a glimpse of an alien mind, and in this respect, the book does not disappoint. Beginners might want some supplementary encyclopedia-style reading.
See my review of Volume 1 for the same criticisms hold, though I would add that I thought his summary of the work of Duns Scotus was a bit muddled.
Very good introduction and summary of philosophy from this time period. Read sections on Augustine, Anselm, and Aquinas.
Frederick Copleston continues his detailed, connected recounting of the history of philosophy. Occasionally, his interpretations are questionable (e.g., when he states that Aquinas's philosophy was a consistent synthesis and not a juxtaposition of Aristotelianism and Christianity). However, his overview is mostly apodictic (as he would put it--beyond argument). This is a dense overview of the progression of medieval philosophy from Augustine to Aquinas and Duns Scotus (through the Jewish and Arabian Aristotelians); it is about as comprehensible as possible given the subjects.
Sejarah filsafat, begitulah awal mula ketertarikan saya pada filsafat. Merenungi perjalanan orang-orang yang bergelut di dalamnya, bagaimana konteks kelahiran sebuah pemikiran, sampai bagaimana pemikiran tersebut mempengaruhi orang-orang setelahnya (dan juga implikasi-implikasi di jaman berikutnya). Saya pernah menyentuh semua edisi Sejarah Filsafat Coppleston ini, meskipun tak pernah sekalipun tuntas membacanya. Dan bagi pembaca awam yang baru mulai memasuki belantara raya filsafat, saya sangat menyarankan serial buku ini.
History of Philosophy, Volume 2 by Frederick Copleston (1993)
There are numerous books with this every same ISBN...
Good overview of philosophy up to about 1300; spends a lot of time on Aquinas and Augustine.
I am re-reading this.
This is one of the best books on history of philosophy!
