https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/377367.Mutation
Mutation is the most creepy and frightful story I’ve read by Cook. I read it many years ago, and of course certain parts of it are outdated by now, but it’s definitely one of my favorites.

http://verovsky-meninadospoliciais.bl...
This book was a mess. BYE.
All of these aspects give the reader clues often times to the way the story may be going or what may happen next.
This book could very well come true, and unlike the sci fi stories people read and then go and report seeing aliens in their backyard, the situation in Mutation could very well happen.
It really makes the reader think, and some people may disagree with me but I think that some of the best books that I've ever read have made me think other than the time that I've been reading the book.In conclusion, if you like a well written book that will make you think or if you are a biology nerd like me who wants to read an entertaining book, Mutation is a good choice.
This book scared me silly, exactly what I look for in this genre...totally science fiction, yet in the realm of truth.I was a little disappointed in Marsha's reaction to learning her husband basically stole her eggs for experiementation which produced not one child, but two (which were given to other parents and now dead).
It was never brought up again (from Marsha's view point anyway); I thought it to be an abnormal reaction from a woman under these circumstances.Overall, this was an excellent read and a really thought-provoking work of fiction.
I resolve to spend 2011 catching up on Dr. Robin Cook's works!
Victor, the father, engineers a son with a higher than average intelligence.
Much higher: sometimes he refers to his son’s IQ as a two-Einstein IQ.
How the hell no one noticed a loner of a kid amassing lab equipment and basically replicate Geneva’s CERN under an abandon building is behind me but, you know… plot.But even funnier is the kid visiting the bank almost on a daily basis, to use his safety box.
A 10 years old with a safety box: hard to comprehend for an Italian mind.
A 10 years old who accesses his own personal safety box without any supervision, because adults trust him and they don’t care what he is storing in a bank vault: science fiction.
Predictable and too much over the top, even for Cook's standards. It's more around 2.5 stars.
Quando a ciência ultrapassa os limites da ética moral e humana, o resultado pode ser devastador!https://momentosdemagia.wordpress.com...
I released this book in to the wild via bookcrossing.com and here was my review of this turd from back then:6/9/2003 I have read the first two chapters and thus far am not impressed.
What a freakshow.My problem is that Robin Cook uses too many "had had"'s (e.g. pg.
I had had enough of the had had's after the first three.I'll finish the book and release it into the wild regardless of the had had count.
Using my objective tounge, I must say that this book stunk like an unrefrigerated truck full of eggs in August.
It was a thrilling read and I finished the book in half a week.
It was the classic message of science vs ethics.
However, the plot was a little too predictable and I did not like the ending.
VJ was called a monster a lot towards the end of the book.
Maybe he was a monster in 1987 back when the book was written, but by today's standards, he will probably just be called an unethical (young) scientist.
Some food for thought by VJ:"Morality cannot rule science because morality is relative and therefore variable.
Science is not.
As usual, Robin Cook grapped the hearts of his reader with this book.
It's medical thriller as Robin Cook does best.But the only flaw I could find about this book is that you could guess quite easily who's the villain as least that was what happended to me.
But, it's my favourite thriller novel despite the fact that I could predict who's the villain was and if you want to know more you should go and find out about yourself.That's all I'm gonna say.I would like to see thhis best selling book turned to movie block buster.
I believe this was one of the first adult books I read. I read this at about age 11 or so and I remember it gave me nightmares for a long time. The son's eerie deadness and the dad's complete disregard of his son's freakishness troubled me for weeks. I think my parents were so proud of the fact that I was reading "adult" books that they didn't stop to think that they should restrict certain authors..RC has the horror aspect down pat in this novel coupled with succinct and absorbing writing.
This book gets started very quickly. In no time at all the suspense was cranked up to the upper limits and I was incapable of putting this oldie but goodie down. This is the first Robin Cook novel I've read, but it certainly won't be the last.
I went through a Robin Cook phase in middle or high school where I ripped through a bunch of his books real quickly.
somewhere in between.Mutation certainly may not have been the best test book.
The book certainly moves at a fast pace and it succeeds in creating a pervasive sense of dread.
For example, this book is about a genetic experiment gone wrong.
I was beyond obvious references like that in my own writing in high school.I'd certainly give Cook another shot.
And Mutation is a decent enough thriller, though I doubt I'll remember it in the long run.
3,5*Despite being published back in 1989, Mutation touches upon relevant concerns for the future in the field of biochemistry (I think, not an expert).
The book addresses both scientific and moral questions, which make for an interesting read.The topics and terms from the field of medicine are always relatively easy to understand and follow in Robin Cook's novels, which I enjoy.
This novel follows Marsha and Victor, who soon learn that the brilliance of their son VJ has a dark side to it that shocks both them and the reader.I enjoyed the novel, it was a quick and suspenseful read.
I realize this will never win any kind of literary award.
It's a suspense/thriller/mystery read based on medicine and science.
But I admit I LOVE his books.
I love medicine a lot, and there is not a lot of books other than non-fiction that talks about details of medicine as much as he does.
science, which SHOULD be based on logic.
The plot is okay.
Characters are just okay.
It makes a great read on a beach, vacation of any kind, on a long flight, etc., IF you are into medicine and science like me.
The book was sophisticated, but I already knew the plot so there was no surprise element to it.
I really like that the author hypothesis what would happen if pathos are taken out of the brain and how it could go morally wrong.
The separation between normal and not normal is apparent in this book.
Human are normally social beings with emotions like empathy and sadness.
The opposition of being normal is anti-social without emotions.
Similarity: Franken Fran (manga)This manga is compare to Mutation because main character are both unable to process emotions.
They don't see the wrongness of performing experiments without considering the ethical side of things.
This was a chilling novel! The plot was a little out in left-field, but it was wonderfully written. Dr. Cook managed to take a topic that would normally be a hard one for a reader to believe, and understand, and he made it into a story that could quite possibly give you nightmares. At the very least it will make you think. This novel teeters on the edge of surrogate parenting and genetic research. It is the tale of a brilliant doctor who sought to create the perfect son, and instead, invented a living nightmare.
Another amazing read. Another book where I coudn't put it down until the end. At which point, I felt quite emotional at the eventual outcome. What an extreme waste of potential and talent!!Robin Cook does an excellent job weaving this modern day Frankenstein plot into scarily realistic levels.Despite all the science stuff, it is the little emotions that stand out i.e. VJ beaming with pride at his fathers praise.A must have for the science fiction fan library
This book reminded me so much of Dean Koontz book “Watchers” and I loved that book just as much. From the very first page it grabbed my attention and I literally couldn’t stop reading it. My only very small problem was that I couldn’t understand a lot of the medical mumbo jumbo throughout the book but I do appreciate it because I know it’s the kind of talk coming from a real doctor and that’s what made it even more creepy. I recommend it to anyone looking for a good read!
okay, I must say that I read it long ago and I took a good amount of time reading this. However, when I completed the book (after a long time), I found that somehow this is what's happening in the world, mutation and acknowledgement!
Robin Cook - Brilliant writer.I chose this rating as it is one of his most excellent writes. To be so intelligent, clever and imaginative is a gift. Brilliant, brilliant, writer. A1 ++++++++++++
Intriguing. what would you do if your child was a genius, and could advance science by eons, but is possibly a murdered?
Easy read. Predictable about halfway through with a truncated ending. Not much plot development. You just keep waiting for the parents to figure it out.
Note: I did not read the French translation; as of this review this novel is only up on Goodreads in French format.
great book
4 stars cause I guessed most of the plots...
Un poco predecible, y un tanto inverosímil... Pero muy adictivo
Entertaining but wildly implausible.
