https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29751398-the-power
It doesn’t matter that she shouldn’t, that she never would. What matters is that she could, if she wanted. TW: rape.Ooh, this is a toughie. I have a lot of mixed feelings about Alderman's The Power. It's an intriguing and clever concept, but this never really translates into an engaging story.Imagine if one day, suddenly, girls developed a strange physical power: they can produce electricity inside them. They can use this power to hurt, to torture, and to kill. A world that is built on patriarc
A world that is built on patriarchy is suddenly upturned - being a woman is synonymous with power and strength, men are the ones afraid to walk alone at night, the female body itself becomes an instrument of power.With obvious nods to rape culture, The Power imagines what the world would be like if men, not women, had to live in constant fear for their physical safety.
Sure, maybe this would evolve over time if Saudi women had power, but I find it very hard to believe that anyone would cast off centuries of cultural practices in a matter of days.The Power is a real mixed bag full of fascinating ideas, lack of focus, over-simplified male/female power dynamics, and some clever subversive scenes.
When a male friend found out I was reading a book in which all women simultaneously develop the power to electrocute people and subsequently seize control of society, he responded "Tch, if that were the other way around, you'd go mad"...
But I don't need to go and buy a book about the situation being the other way around because THAT'S THE WORLD THAT WE LIVE IN.
The real genius of it is the way that Alderman turns society so perfectly on its head.
While I was reading the first half of this book I felt physically and mentally powerful in a way that I hadn't felt before.
The hook is simple: the novel begins when girls and women suddenly gain the power to shock and kill others with only a touch; it takes only a second's thought to imagine how this would turn the world on its head.
It's not even a rich exploration of everything there is to say about oppression or prejudice.
There's no easy answer to the question of how power is transferred and how power corrupts; I would've distrusted any book that tried to tell me otherwise.
This is all THE POWER tried to tell me: The problem is not men.
3.75
Seriously?! Christ this is a mess. I'm obviously wrong considering all the glowing praise and award-winning going on here, but can't for the life of me understand what the fuss is about. I mean, great concept but poor execution. Way too many of the chapters felt off or forced, I didn't invest in any of the characters, and the ending didn't redeem it - in fact, probably made it worse.Very disappointed.
a brilliant read that explores power and gender dynamics in a fascinating and thrilling way! i do think this book favors the ideas and the writing over the story arc--some parts weren't quite as cohesive as i would've liked--but i did still thoroughly enjoy this! it was so captivating and frustrating and horrifying and familiar all at once. i will definitely be thinking about this book for a long while, and i think it would be an excellent choice to read with a friend/bookclub because there are so many ideas to explore in further discussion/contemplation!
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend. Roxy is a tenacious girl with an influential family. Tunde enjoys lounging poolside after his photo-journalism class. Margot is a politician with grand aspirations and a vulnerable teenage daughter. Allie is a young woman whose religious foster parents are not what they seem. Roxy, Tunde, Margot, and Allie have relatively normal lives, until something extraordinary happens: Teenage girls acquire supernatura
Roxy, Tunde, Margot, and Allie have relatively normal lives, until something extraordinary happens: Teenage girls acquire supernatural abilities that give them unparalleled physical power.
Roxy, Tunde, Margot, and Allie are drawn together in unprecedented ways to calamitous effect.
Chapters alternate between Roxy, Tunde, Margot, and Allie.
Social norms throughout the world shift daily as more and more young women discover their ability to harness the power.
It often feels unfathomable that male characters in the book should suffer such atrocities, but readers are forced to recognize a disturbing fact: Women suffer similar acts of barbarism every day in the real world.
women are now quite literally empowered, able to defend themselves against any would-be attackers or break free from oppressive regimes, and over the years, power dynamics shift and patriarchies topple, leading to a kinder, gentler world run by women and their inherent nurturing qualities.or the opposite of that.if there’s one thing we’ve learned from scandal (when we’re not hypnotized by olivia pope’s powerbouncing stride and inhumanly poreless skin), it’s that power corrupts.
the book is not as flawless as olivia pope-skin, but i think when it comes to social science fiction, we can (president)* grant it some leeway.
He cannot feel anything at all in his left arm.”  “She leans in, bubblegum breath, and kisses him softly on the lips.
Then she peels away, runs to the pool and dives, in one smooth, practiced movement.” “He waits for the feeling to come back to his arm.
Teenage girls and women have developed an immense physical power —-with the flick of their fingers.
Her healing powers started to show up when a sick girl by the name Luanne arrived at the convent.
Boys dressing as the girls to see more powerful.
DNF @ 50%I actually think this book is FANTASTIC. It's extremely sophisticated, well written, and though-provoking. The issue is I'm just really not engaged with it at the moment and feel there's no point in me continuing right now when I can barely retain the story. I 100% intend on finishing the story at a later time and may pick up the physical version instead of continuing with the audiobook (I also really did not like the narrator.)
Months later, Tunde witnesses a girl being sexually harassed and sensing something about to happen, records her directing an electrostatic charge on her harasser with fatal results.As reports of young girls around the world employing a strange new type of fighting that leaves other kids--mostly boys--burned, scarred and incapacitated, a U.S. mayor named Margot Cleary makes the decision to close the schools.
Picking and choosing the stories of the Bible that apply to women's liberation or power, she begins to preach a realigned gospel, and heal, earning the name "Mother Eve."Skipping ahead another year, as news of her gospel travels, Mother Eve is visited by Roxy Monke.
the story follows four different character POVs with each perspective visited at a single point in a year, over the span of ten years.
elements which would have made the story so much more meaningful and powerful, allowing the book to resonate with a much wider audience.
this story essentially postulates that, with any sort of shift which provides women with a dominance in power, they will become complete savages with no regard for human life or decency.
its such an extreme stance to take that im not sure im okay with it, or this book.
This isn't a one-star review because I didn't hate this book, it was merely just overwhelmingly second-rate.*The Minnie Effect, named for the eponymous character in Kathryn Stockett's The Help, is a phenomenon in POV novels where the best or most entertaining characters are given the least amount of attention within the overall novel whilst the least entertaining or boring characters dominate the narrative.Stray observation:This whole novel is meant to be written five-thousand years in the future, yet at one point a character makes a movement that is compared to the moves of John Travolta in Saturday Night Fever.
There are some novels that you feel, from the tips of your fingers, all the way to the bottoms of your toes.
She feels the thing like pins and needles along her arms.
It surges through you like a hot flame, rippling down your forearm, searing your skin, crackling and yet you can’t help but feel the excitement building, even if “The Power” kills you.
Margot is a politician and she would like to believe that she’s making a difference in these trying times even though her own daughter Jocelyn struggles more than most.
If the dominant roles shifted and girls and women ruled the world, what would happen?
(It seems that's mostly what it is, these days.) Indeed, what we've got here is a careful and complex study of all the gender roles turned on its head, slowly, surely, and irrevocably.We have women getting the power to shock the living shit out of anyone and teach this power to any other woman.
Or as we assume men always were.The book also brings up the question of archeology in a wonderful way, fast-forwarding 5000 years into a culture where women have all the power and men are treated exactly the way women are treated today.
Because, I don't understand the point of going through the pains of constructing a dystopian novel if your ultimate purpose is just to say that, even with different people in power and different means as an end to that power, things would all wind up in exactly the same shitshow as they currently are.
I mean, sure, you could just go with the whole Absoute Power Corrupts Absolutely thing and leave it at that, and while there's some truth to this, I think there's a little more nuance to the story, and that little more nuance is a lot more interesting to consider.
As soon as I heard of the idea of The Power I wanted to read it – it’s simple and completely revolutionary – you’ll know it already – women throughout the world develop a power somewhat like ELECTRIC EELS!!!!!
This newfound ability brings about an amalgamation of changes, including political power plays, shifts in male-female relationship dynamics, and the burning question of girls' and women's new place in society.
The Power portrays a host of challenging situations and scenes, including sexual assault and political warfare.This book had so much unfulfilled potential.
As bell hooks writes, patriarchy has no gender, so what happens when one gender (or sex) gains power over their oppressors?
I wish Alderman had focused more on crafting these characters in a more comprehensive way so that readers could better connect to them.I hate to say this, but I would not recommend this book.
A questo si aggiunge una prosa molto pop - forse un po' troppo, alcune svolte narrative sono trattate con estrema faciloneria, soprattutto le storyline a sfondo criminale - che si destreggia con punti di vista plurimi, in ambientazioni sparse in tutto il mondo, uno dei tratti più apprezzabili è infatti la portata globale e il respiro storico del libro della Alderman.
A parte qualche forzatura nei dialoghi, il romanzo si rivela una lettura convincente, originale, "elettrica".
Non vi aspettate un libro impeccabile, aspettatevi una rappresentazione piena di vitalità e violenza su quanto pesa la disparità di genere sulla nostra società.
Suddenly they are the more powerful sex.We follow three women - Roxy, Mother Eve, and Margot - and 1 man - Tunde - as the world changes.
I also understand that there could be a real backlash against men if women suddenly became so strong that they could do whatever they wanted to a man, but I don't believe women would become so feral and so insanely cruel.To me this book undermines women because it seems to say, "If we had The Power we'd rape men, kill them, physically pull them to pieces, because we can't act humanely." To me it says that even if women were physically strong we're mentally and emotionally too weak to do the right thing.
Need to think about this one a bit before I review it as my minds a little blown and all over the place. In a very good way. Alderman creates an empowering (pun not intended) and in turns terrifying* alternate world where power is literally (and electrifyingly) in women's hands and follows how the power effects them. Which is the greater power; love, hate, survival, revenge?*Not terrifying because women are in charge but because of what some of them do with their power. As terrifying as men, which is the point I know and it's very well done.
Or do more peaceful societies tend to allow men to rise up to the top because they place less value on the capacity for violence?" ponders a male historian living in a matriarchal world where women hold the power.
This book doesn't just flip gender roles.
It delves into complicated discussions around systemic oppression, power, rape culture, gender, and religion.
The book is an unflinching dystopian yet also a mirror of our world today.
EVERYONE should read this book.
I am still reeling from it and am going to need some time to sit with it to get out my full thoughts together.Major TW for rape and assault.
And there are many, many abused women in the world."A strange new kind of fighting which leaves boys- mostly boys, sometimes girls- breathless and twitching, with scars like unfurling leaves winding up their arms or legs or across the soft flesh of their middles.
Their first thought after disease is a new weapon, something these kids are bringing into school, but as the first week trickles into the second they know that's not it." loc 316, ebook.Entire governments crumble to powerful women.
The old centuries are done." loc 681, ebook.The new scourge of third world countries are powerful, uncontrolled women."He wounds three of the women in the leg or arm and the others are on him like a tide.
A great thriller with a somewhat dissatisfying ending...
Okay The Power won the Women’s Baileys prize for fiction in 2017 so I recommended we read this in my bookclub which we will be discussing this week.
A good bookclub read?
The world turns around when teenage girls develop a lightning strike physical power.
There is a reversal in gender roles.
Women are now in power, but do they start to solve the woes of the day?
Women act the way some men do now.
I just didn’t anticipate the reversal of roles to play out this way.3 stars rounded up to 3.5 due to Roxy.
As you can imagine, some of them start zapping personas non-grata right away and that's all I want to share about the premise.The story is told from the points of view of four people, Roxy, Tunde, Allie, and Margot, they are characters with different backgrounds and paths in life.My favorite part is the ending which left me reeling.
Overall, the story was deeply incisive and imaginative, I highly recommend it.
The upheaval generated by this transformation is seen through the eyes of four major characters: Allie, a survivor of an abusive foster home, who becomes a leader of the new world order by re-styling herself as the messianic "Mother Eve"; Roxy, the daughter of a London mob boss and one of the women's most formidable fighters; Margot, mayor of an American town and someone whose astute understanding of the crisis causes her to rise rapidly through the halls of political power; and Tunde, a charming Nigerian boy who captures some of the first footage of the power being unleashed and evolves into one of the foremost journalists covering the revolution.A dramatic metamorphosis crackles around the globe.
But the best kind of speculative fiction causes the reader to look at the world in a different light, and The Power certainly does that.
I thought this was riveting! A thrilling, scary, violent Atwood/Bacigalupi combo.
A completely plausible and believable piece of fiction that suggests a world run by women would be no different than a world run by men. The swapped gender stereotypes and roles in society hurt as much as they ring true. Sometimes you can't see a thing until you get a full view of every side.The final line before the author signs off is now my favorite last line of all time. THE POWER is a brutal, rage-inducing, thought-provoking novel that should be require reading in schools. Especially for boys.
So much has already been said about this book that nothing I say will count for much - it has been sitting on my to-read shelf since shortly after the paperback came out last year.
To start with, I struggle with any stories that rely too much on fantasy and supernatural elements.
(view spoiler)[Others have criticised the framing conceit that the book was written by a man, 5000 years into the post-apocalyptic female dominion instigated by the catastrophic ending, but I thought this was rather neat, in fact it makes some of the stylistic excesses more excusable to place them within the male-dominated thriller writers' mindset, and making him an archaeologist was a nice touch.
