https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1354164.Fairy_Tales
I think these fairy tales are my all-time favourites. They are absolutely amazing. Not only do they rhyme, and have great morals, but are also very traditionaly Russian. I don't think my childhood would have been the same without these beautifully writte stories.
"Пленителни са приказките за деца на великия руски поет Александър Сергеевич Пушкин. Вземете която искате от тях — всяка ще ви разкрие един чудесен свят." - Младен Исаев, преводач на българското издание.Понеже съм на вълна руска литература, много се зарадвах на книжката. Човек никога не може да прекали с четенето на Пушкин.
really like that tales, especially about Koshchei :D
Amazingly melodic rhymes, good moral stories, undated characters
Great reading before going to sleep, no matter how old you are. Colorful dreams guaranteed
The joy of this book is not so much the Pushkin tales, but the artwork.
This edition is a hybrid, translated Pushkin fairy tales illustrated by magnificent renderings of the Palekh paintings that depict the tales on lacquered Russian boxes.
Many of them are glorious, so this is an art book to cherish.As for the text, I found this mixed.
Most of the book is taken up with Pushkin's famous tale of "Ruslan and Ludmilla".
My favourite was the "Tale of Tsar Sultan" but I would also highly recommend "Tale of the Dead Princess and the Seven Champions".
Illustriert mit der russischen Lackmalerei – die sich Szenen der jeweiligen Märchen bedient – werden sechs Märchen Puschkins in Reimform wiedergegeben. Man gewöhnt sich aber an die heute unübliche Form. Die Märchen selbst sind keine Märchen für Kinder, auch wenn viele Themen an unsere Märchen erinnern – z.B. das „Märchen von der toten Zarentochter und den sieben Recken“ an „Schneewittchen und die sieben Zwerge“.In „Ruslan und Ludmila“ streiten 4 Ritter um die von einem Zwerg entführte Königstochter. Der „Sieger“ bekommt sie zur Frau.In einem anderen Märchen sind es die Frauen, die um den König streiten.
Bajka o ribaru i ribici obavezna je lektira za peti razred OŠ (i 'reread' je), a ostale sam pročitao usput- da dodam na Gr, a i iz znatiželje.
Dok spomenuta bajka ima izraženu didaktičku notu pa je time i razumljivo njezino uključenje u lektiru, ostale bajke iz izdanja koje sam pročitao (Zg Stvarnost, 2002.) baš i ne dijele tu karakteristiku.
Neke od razlika spram originalne verzije su: očito, nema patuljaka, nego 7 junaka(hahh) (koji, apropos, u jednom trenutku prose princezu/Snjeguljicu), kraljica ne donosi osobno jabuku princezi, već šalje sluškinju (nema onih ukrasa za kosu i drugih pokušaja ubojstva, već odmah jabuka hhh).
Սիրում եմ Պուշկինի տաղանդը
I really enjoyed the illustrations in this book. This book is more of a book for adults to read to the kids. I probably wouldn't but this on my bookshelf in my classroom.
Siin on nüüd Tsaar Saltaanist see tõlge, mis on peaaegu pähe kulunud. Pildid Günther Reindorffilt. Oli lasteraamatute illustratsioonidel kunagi alles tase!
Illustriert mit der russischen Lackmalerei – die sich Szenen der jeweiligen Märchen bedient – werden sechs Märchen Puschkins in Reimform wiedergegeben. Man gewöhnt sich aber an die heute unübliche Form. Die Märchen selbst sind keine Märchen für Kinder, auch wenn viele Themen an unsere Märchen erinnern – z.B. das „Märchen von der toten Zarentochter und den sieben Recken“ an „Schneewittchen und die sieben Zwerge“.In „Ruslan und Ludmila“ streiten 4 Ritter um die von einem Zwerg entführte Königstochter. Der „Sieger“ bekommt sie zur Frau.In einem anderen Märchen sind es die Frauen, die um den König streiten.
Когда ты уже взрослый, то сказки Пушкина проглатываются на раз-два. Все детство и школьные годы проходят вместе с ними и, хочешь-не хочешь, но строки навечно врезаются в память. Перелистывая страницы книги, ты не читаешь, а сам себе декламируешь "У лукоморья дуб зеленый, златая цепь на дубе том...", изредка подглядывая в текст, когда не помнишь точных фраз. А главное - с каким удовольствием и наслаждением ты окунаешься в мир героев сказок Александра Сергеевича. Воистину великий блок произведений!
I was expecting a little more traditional Russian and Eastern European folklore elements to this. Yet Pushkin quite obviously took his inspiration from a myriad of sources - among them Washington Irving and Grimms. It seems quite Westernized to me and since I was looking forward to Baba Yaga, the Firebird, and other elements like that, I was a bit disappointed. Plus, it was a prose translation and I was hoping for a poem translation. I'll have to at least sample a verse translation at some point.
The Tale of the Fisherman and the Fish is not about fishing. This is about the riot of men against the God, in general, and about communism/socialism, in particular. Long before K. Marx (A. Pushkin wrote this tale in 1833). Abilities and requirements, yes.The natural finale, confirmed by the history of the 20th century.Other tales are also good. Especially about the Russian "Orthodox" (not to be confused with Christianity!) priest and his servant.The real classic literature.
My particular editions contained:Сказка о попе и о работнике его Балде Сказка о медведихеСказка о царе СалтанеСказка о рыбаке и рыбке Сказка о мёртвой царевне и семи богатыряхСказка о золотом петушке
Друзья! Наверняка, в детстве у каждого эта книга занимала почетное место в домашней библиотеке. Так, не будем изменять традициям и пусть она займет Первое почетное место в нашей библиотеке! )
I can't find the exact book I read but this is the closest.
Лучшие русские сказки, нечего добавить.
