https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1036676.Pecos_Bill
The story was featured in a section about Tall Tales in our school reading text book.
I loved the story back then, and I enjoyed it again now along with all the other "tall tales" in this book.
Perhaps I love these stories given the knack my grandfather had for telling his own stories about his father in the old days (late 1800's) on the plains of Nebraska.
Whatever the reason, I've always loved the old Paul Bunyan and Pecos Bill stories, and really enjoyed taking a look at Bill all over again.
So being bored by this book was a real surprise for me.
Pecos Bill should not be boring - he is larger than life and full of surprises!
If you want Pecos Bill stories, I would recommend looking elsewhere.
I would only recommend this one to Newbery completists or those looking for more variations of Pecos Bill's tales.
Maybe storytellers would get some ideas from the book - definitely on how not to tell Pecos Bill if you want to keep your audience awake.
I'll concede that maybe some people will really love this book, but I hope they aren't missing out on better tellings.
A Newberry Honor book in 1938, I read this aloud to my 11 year old who loved it. I thought it was okay, but enjoyed other tellings of Pecos Bill stories better. I'm partial to tall tales that can be read in one sitting, rather than the longer novel format.
This was a delightful book filled with the tall tales of Pecos Bill. Many of the natural landmarks of the western United States and methods of the cowboy are explained by these farcical fables. This is a book filled with humor that any age will enjoy.
A gathering and retelling of the Pecos Bill legends for a young audience. S'okay, but not really my favorite genre.
That means that while there may be bits of truth in these stories, they are tall tales for the most part, which were a big part of American literature.The book begins with young Bill being four years old.
He also finally learned that he was indeed a human and not a coyote.
This book is recommended for children ages 9 to 12, and it does have some illustrations in it.
I highly recommend this book for all the cowboys and cowgirls out there.
This 1938 Newberry Honor Book is a compilation Pecos Bill stories.
From an American Folklore standpoint the book is interesting, albeit, a little offensive in parts.
Depiction of reservations and Native Americans is particularly troubling.
However, this book may be useful for critical discussions about the west as well as for some of the tall tales contained within.
Children enjoy the fantastic invention, the riproaring extravagance of the yarns about the greatest of all cowboys, for such tale-spinning is a basic part of American humor."The New York Times"Children are vastly amused by our American tall tales.
'Paul Buyan'...'Pecos Bill'...'The Jack Tales'...are as indigenous to the United States as popcorn, and too funny for children to miss."Christian Science Monitor
I read it because it won a Newbery Honor.
They had, for centuries, been accustomed to prey on the buffalo, and now they insisted on killing the cattle.
The result was that the Government at Washington established Military Posts and placed the Indians on Reservations.
The Military Posts offered the best market, for after corralling the Indians, the Government was obliged to furnish them with meat.”Example of the language used: “…the best there is in man is the very best there is anywhere.
Where muscle and nerve and honor and courage are caught in the saddle, there also rides manly joy.”
Oh my goodness I thought this book was stupid.
And then they did sort of creation-type myths with him like the reason we have the Grand Canyon, Butte Falls in Montana, etc.AND the book it also fairly racist.
You can even find the 'Indian herds' on their reservations.And lastly, the author seems to be putting quite a bit of disrespect for the law into this book.
And even at the end he justifies and explains why it's good to not like the police.But mostly this book was just filled with stupidity from front to back.
Read the full review here: http://newberyandbeyond.com/newbery-r...I really didn’t care for this book. I’m not a fan of mythology and tall tales, as a general rule, and this book wasn’t an exception to that rule. Add to that the casual racism and sexism that comes with many of the older Newbery books, and you come up with a book that I had to force myself to finish. Unless you or your kid is obsessed with American tall tales, maybe don’t bother.
1938 Newbery Honor BookI was really hoping to enjoy this book since I love the Disney short about Pecos Bill and I generally enjoy folklore but.....this book was so uninteresting! The stories rambled on and on.
Good book. You know the saying, "don't judge a book by it's cover"? Don't judge this book by it's cover. The inside of the book was WAY more interesting than the outside I must say;) The outside looked so boring to me that I almost didn't read it! I'm glad I changed my mind.
Just finished reading this to my daughter. A wonderful piece of Americana. Thank you NYRB for putting it back in print.
What an incredible tale! I loved these stories as a child and revisiting them as an adult brought me back to those days.
Bowman does a good job with the tall tale of Pecos Bill, making a mythical American demigod to rival Hercules and Theseus, with talents and personality as large as the American west.
