https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33984070-silent-child
I was beginning to believe that people were capable of anything. People are multi-layered. Anyone can have a private side that verges on the dark and dangerous. Your doctor could be a sadist. Your primary school teacher could be a paedophile. Your beauty therapist could be a murderer. 2 1/2 stars. Silent Child should have and could have been a new favourite of mine. It is compelling and eerie, set where I came from in the North of England, in a quiet (and fictional) little Yorkshire town where
The mystery interested me and the story had a very creepy vibe, which I personally liked.Too bad everything - every twist, reveal and "surprise" - was completely transparent.It is told from the perspective of Emma Price, who lost her six-year-old son, Aiden, in a flood ten years ago.
This is so some of them are red herrings, and also so that if the reader figures out one mystery, they can still be surprised by another.
One character will seem weird to most people almost immediately, so the reveals around them will probably come as no surprise.
Denzil is a dark disturbing psychological tragic story of a mother, Emma Price whose little six-year-old boy, Aiden, who wandered away from school during a terrible flood and drowned.
I felt like half a person after I thought Aiden had drowned in the flood, and I imagine Rob, his father, felt the same.
We only reminded each other of what we had lost and eventually we had to part.” Ten years later Emma Price-Hewitt has remarried, and Jake, 10 years her senior, is her new husband and father of her baby girl soon to be born.
Buddy read with:-  Abdullah, Elsa, Amna, Zarshal and Nigham. (Spoilers are concealed. Feel free to read)  OVERVIEW Emma has lost her six year old child, Aiden, in the flood. He appears after ten years when she has been married to Jake and she is pregnant with his child. Where Aiden had been for ten years? And how he survived? These questions would have been easy to answer only if her traumatised Aiden could speak the unspeakable.I was hooked by this book honestly. I didn't want to put it down.
Emma has lost her six year old child, Aiden, in the flood.
These questions would have been easy to answer only if her traumatised Aiden could speak the unspeakable.I was hooked by this book honestly.
Anyway, let me try to pour out my feelings about this book.=> Emma.
She was determined and I liked her relationship with Aiden.(view spoiler)[=> Jake.
Like he always wanted to own Emma's life.
And also I didn't get a satisfactory answer of why he left Emma after the disappearance of Aiden?
(hide spoiler)]=> Aiden.
Like: Why Aiden only obeyed Jake?
(hide spoiler)]Overall, I liked the story.
A MUST READ for fans of dark psychological thrillers and suspense novels.I have never read anything by Sarah A.
Denzil before but after reading Silent Child, I know this won't be my last.
There was plenty of original twists and turns where nothing is what it seems.The suspense was palpable and the full range of emotions I felt whilst reading this proved to me what a brilliantly talented writer Denzil is.
Well done Sarah Denzil!
You have a new fan!An easy 5 stars ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️A warning … this is a psychological thriller and suspense novel of a very dark nature.
Audiobook rating: ★★★★Story rating: ★Ok, the fact that there was a mention of Downton Abbey in Silent Child was really amusing! Since the only reason I listened to this audiobook at all was because it has Joanne Froggatt (who played Anna Bates in the show) as narrator. So that nugget is something extra and earned a good chuckle during a miserable stretch of chapters. Every facade of the revelation was some implausible scenario after another. When you think about it, it’s just too much to beg to
Because that was how long it took for me to reach the ‘no way’ and ‘why?’ point.This is like if the whole universe, and I literally mean that, conspired against our heroine on the sole purpose of making her life a living hell.
She was too naive for her age and her life experiences to feel like a real person at all to me.The fact that at the very end she actually (view spoiler)[threatened Becky with a knife to her throat but not reported her to police (hide spoiler)] just a good cherry on top of a collapsed cake for me.I will glady listen to other books Joanne Froggatt narrate though because she is such a great reader/voice performer.
One of the best books of 2017 for me.
Dark, haunting story.If you're in bad place, this isn't the book for you to read.
Emma lost her son ten years ago in the flood, only people she can lean on was her parents.
She fall in love with the man, who pulled her out of this dark place.
They're married and she is about to have a little girl.
Everything going somewhat okay but she can't stop thinking about her little boy.
Phone call changed everything, her son is found, but her real nightmare just just started.
Make sure you have one of those cozy mysteries to read after reading this book.
This book is a prime example of why a good editor is so important.
While reading (struggling) through the first two thirds of the story I was forced to endure the worst "poor me" attitude by the main character, even though her son has just returned after 10 years.
This was mostly portrayed by the main character's CONSTANT whining, her complete lack of concern for her unborn child and her lack of concern for everyone but herself (and occasionally her son).
This was just overall filled with little emotion, too much whinging and not enough guessing.I strongly suggest the author finds a good editor as well.
I am still pondering on my review for Silent Child by Sarah A.
Denzil just let me say that it was a powerful heartbreaking read, the first half was strong & was a page turner but after that I found it a bit draining, I thought the author had overdone Emma's grief it was just a bit much over the topto believe & the way Aiden was put in cotton wool (not to be touched by anyone) annoyed me, although I understand the feelings of Emma wanting to protect her child.
there was a lot going on with the characters which I thought were plausible but again were irritating any way that is my spin on this book take it or leave it.
DO NOT BELIEVE THE HYPE!!
Very disappointing! Unfortunately everything about this book was immature to me, the characters, the dialogue and the writing style. Add to that all the spelling errors and I just couldn't give it more than two stars.
(view spoiler)[I really liked the premise and the first half or so. But beyond that I felt like it was very predictable, and fairly unrealistic in terms of how many people were involved. What were the chances that one good friend was the kidnapper, another friend was his girlfriend and aided him, and her husband had nothing to do with the kidnapping but just happened to be a psychotic stalker? It was too much and for me it ruined it a bit. (hide spoiler)]
My problem with self-published books is the lack of proper editing.
Stupid things drives me nuts and I just quit them.
One thing Sarah A.
Even with the lack of proper editing, this was the thing that got me through the book.There were still things that drove me nuts, like the repetitiveness of repetitive things.
And spoiling the plot by adding in unnecessary details, with which the book could have worked without.That being said, I think Sarah have great potential with a proper team backing her up.
(upped my original 2star rating to 3stars)Self-Published Thriller 'Silent Child' Created Noise
Though this was not as exciting as I expected, it was a pretty solid mystery. It's quite atmospheric and the main character is well sketched out. However, I did guess the resolution about half-way through, hence the three stars. To me, the villain always seemed so obvious I kept thinking there had to be another answer, but no, I was right, though I didn't want to be. Overall, not a bad book, but nowhere near as gripping as I had expected.Find more reviews and bookish fun at http://www.princessandpen.com
3.5 Predictable StarsIn a rainy day, Emma had a call from Aiden’s school (her six-year-old boy) to get him from school but when she went to school they said he slipped away.
Or so I thought.And now after ten years a miracle happens.
Can you ever forgive me?They want to know where he’s been for the last ten years and who he’s been with!
The story is told from Emma’s POV, 1st person.
I hope you enjoy this story so much!
Yes. Has the plot of said child coming back into the parents lives been done?
I was intrigued by the synopsis of this book after reading, This dark and disturbing psychological novel will appeal to fans of The Widow and The Butterfly Garden.
Ten years later Emma is ready to pop with a new baby.
Who took Aiden all those years ago?This book had me questioning EVERYONE...even that unborn baby girl.
Just like The Butterfly Garden, this took a harrowing and sometimes overdone plot, and made it into a beautifully written novel.
It's been ten years since Emma's young son Aiden disappeared during a flood.
She's since married and is pregnant with her husband, Jake's, child.
She was forced to declare Aiden dead because she needed closure.
Then, out of nowhere, Aiden wanders out of the woods.
Someone must have taken him, only Aiden is to traumatized to say what happened.
Emma struggles to try and find out who took her son, but suspicion and paranoia soon take over.
The plot was a tad predictable, but I was still on the edge of my seat the whole time and it wrapped up with a happy ending.
Se ve lo consiglio? Assolutamente no.È della Newton Compton e sta spesso a 99 cent me comprateci altro. Risparmiateli.Due stelle di voto e credetemi sono molto generosa in questi caso. Mi vorrebbe da dare uno che equivale a carta igienica dal mio punto di vista. Ma quel voto non lo do mai.
I know it takes a lot to write novel, I know it is hard work but I just did not like this and with all the hype around it, everything fell flat for me.
The plot was entirely predictable and idiot proof to say the least.
This is the thing, when a book gets high ratings and keeps showing up on my timeline I expect a lot and I was very disappointed.
Last, as on Reviewer puts it, a lot of the scenes in the book were ridiculous, here you have a fully pregnant woman fighting off her attacker and going through the most stressful pregnancy.
Bravo! Such a great mystery and thriller! Check out my full review on my booktube channel at http://youtube.com/peterlikesbooks
It’s hardly untempting to agree with the reader who objected she didn’t want stories about children being abused.
While child abuse is something no decent person could enjoy watching, as Aristotle explained long ago, we are pleased by artistic representations of actions we’d abhor in real life.
Here the artistic representation is not of child abuse.
I’m sure it doesn’t, except that Silent Child is nearly 100 pages longer than I expect most trade publishers regard as appropriate for “genre fiction.” Tho’ Silent Child sagged a bit in the middle, I’d not have wanted any cuts were I the editor.
As I’ve mentioned before, 2017 has been my year of reading more mystery titles, and this book has been one of my favorites – very much unexpectedly so!
It really felt like she was living, and not reading, the story.
I liked that the story is not about dealing with the abduction of a child, but rather on what happens when a son presumed dead returns ten years later.
The only reason this does not get more stars is that I thought the ending was a bit far-fetched, and that it could have been toned down to a much more believable wrap-up.
Disappointing, dull, repetitive, not believable
Loved this readThis book started with a bang. There was consistent mystery, thrill and the 'who done it ' factor. I couldn't put it down! I finished this book in about a day. Now at some point the constant description of adrenaline would have me pumped as well and I needed a break but that would be my only complaint.
A fantastic book! And I highly recommend the audible version read by Joanne Froggett from Downton Abbey... amazing!
He cannot speak, he cannot tell anyone where he has been for the past ten years; his body tells a story of abuse.
Emma, her life turned upside down, begins to try and reconnect with her teenage son and uncover the truth surrounding his disappearance.I started this novel in the midst of a book slump.
I was completely consumed by the story.
I felt this story.The rest of the novel unfolds and is narrated, for the most part, by grief-stricken Emma as she grieves for the son that she lost and then the lost years she could have had when Aidan turns up.
LOVED, LOVED, LOVED IT!!! Kept me on the edge of my seat throughout and left me dying to know what will happen next. Some great twists and turns that had me shouting 'OH MY GOD!!!'. It would make one hell of a movie that's for sure.
Dark, gripping and original, Silent Child isn't perfect but I still really enjoyed it, especially the realistic characters.
I ignored my family whilst reading this book!
And it can be a tough read at times due to nature of the crime involved but you still won’t be able to put it down.This book plays on every parents nightmare about their child going missing.
This isn’t a graphic book but what happened to Aidan is very distressing and as a parent it was difficult reading at times but still utterly compelling.Sarah Denzil is not an author I had heard of before but now I have made a point of searching out her other books written under this name.
Unfortunately I found the characters one dimensional, the dialogue too obvious and the writing felt forced.The first half of the novel surpasses the second in terms of page turning.
I enjoyed the discovery of Aiden following his ten years of captivity at the hands of a psychotic unknown predator.
But the parts that followed felt too unpredictable and I had guessed much of what happened long before it actually did.Additionally, the idea of a woman in labour hunting down her sons kidnapper is beyond preposterous.
If only the writing continued as it did in the first half of the book this could have been a much better story.
This book was very dark and very disturbing, but a very good read....This book was really tough to read at times,Emma did really live every mother's worst nightmare...
I just really found Emma quite relatable, her frustrations, her fear, her stress, and none of this was helped by the fact that she was also eight months pregnant.....
as in all good psychological thrillers, there were plenty of twists and turns, some you saw coming another's you did not....
I would definitely read another book from this author, and I'd recommend it to anybody who enjoys a good dark psychological thriller....
