https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20898019-ms-marvel-vol-1
Really enjoyed this! I especially loved how relatable Kamala was, and that she wasn't the typical comic book heroine. That being said, I did feel like some elements were a bit stereotypical, and while this was a good intro to the characters/world/situation, it wasn't as standout WOW AMAZING as it could've been. I'll definitely be continuing on with this comic series, though. Very much looking forward to volume 2!
I'd been hearing good things about this book for ages, so I finally decided to pick it up.I enjoyed it, and appreciated the fact that it wasn't just another same-old superhero origin story.
But if I'm going to be completely honest here.
(And I always try to be completely honest) I'll also say that it didn't really thrill me, either.Part of the issue might be that I don't know *anything* about the original hero that the story is based on.
I have a bunch of comics I love.
The fact that this comic speaks to a lot of other people's interests and experiences instead of mine?
this was fantastic! i was a bit confused about how she got her powers, but maybe i just need to re-read it and it'll help me understand. other than that this was so great!
Now what happens is not normal at all, but oh well, maybe Kamala was at the right place at the right time.She becomes Ms. Marvel.
Then again, maybe normal does not actually exist.Kamala is a wonderful heroine I had no problem connecting with from start to finish.
She is a seventeen-year-old who is looking to try new—and safe, of course—experiences, just like we all were at that age.This volume mostly consists of Kamala dealing with her new powers and Ms. Marvel title, and to do that she will need to embrace herself and open up to someone who can help her navigate through her new life.
[3.5 Stars] I'm conflicted about this graphic novel, and I think the reason for that is because I'm reading this from the perspective of a twenty-something Muslim Pakistani American.
Don't get me wrong, I like how diverse this graphic novel is and having a Muslim super hero is super kickass, but there were certain things in the graphic novel that just made me feel a little strange.
I just think that being in the unique position I am in I am a little bit more critical about Muslim representation in the media.The last thing I want to say is that I didn't think this graphic novel was as fun or exciting as others I have read.
She wanted to go with the Old School look, ok?Don't worry, she'll figure out why Captain Marvel switched to a more practical costume soon enough.Do we need another teen superhero?No.So, basically, this story hinges on how much the reader likes Kamala.
And to be honest, I liked her quite a bit.Wilson takes you on the first part of Kamala's teenage journey by showing how she starts off wanting to change herself (most obviously thorough her looks), and then realizing that she's not comfortable in someone else's skin.Is that really a new concept?No.Especially not when you're talking about mutant Inhuman superheroes.Alright, then what's all this buzz about Ms. Marvel?Is is all because Karmala's Muslim?Hard to say, really.
I didn't think I would like this book for reasons but then I did.
I think she's cute with her writing Marvel fanfic.
I think I might want to look into this fanfic stuff!
I'm a little confused about how she turned into Ms. Marvel but I guess I will figure it out in later books or some friends will tell me.
Cool stuff like that, oh and she can shrink to ant man size.
I liked Kamala and Ms. Marvel!
I will be reading more of her adventures.
MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading List
This review contains *spoilers*.Ms. Marvel follows Kamala Khan, a Muslim girl from Jersey City who is suddenly empowered with extraordinary gifts. When a strange mist descends and morphs Kamala into a shape-shifting superhuman... fitting in is the least of her problems. Ms. Marvel also features religion, which, thank you. I love seeing positive portrayals of any religion. And the honest exploration of accepting and loving oneself made my heart sing. This story is a definite win for me.And there
This review contains *spoilers*.Ms. Marvel follows Kamala Khan, a Muslim girl from Jersey City who is suddenly empowered with extraordinary gifts.
When a strange mist descends and morphs Kamala into a shape-shifting superhuman...
Ms. Marvel also features religion, which, thank you.
I love seeing positive portrayals of any religion.
And the honest exploration of accepting and loving oneself made my heart sing.
YES for Harry Potter!!
Literally would've said the exact same thing as Kamala.
so much yes!
If you're interested in buying Ms. Marvel, Vol. 1, just click on the image below to go through my link.
Support creators you love.
11/24/17 - ON SALE for $1.99: http://amzn.to/2iNDxqlReviewed by: Rabid ReadsFor all of you out there screaming, WE NEED DIVERSE BOOKS! I got your diverse graphic novel right here.Meet Kamala Khan:But I'm getting ahead of myself.When Ms. Marvel begins, Kamala is the teenage Muslim version of Toula in MY BIG FAT GREEK WEDDING. She's lamenting the uncoolness of her heritage and daydreaming about being a blonde, kick-ass boot wearing superhero.It's the weekend and (once again) she's forbidden from g
I got your diverse graphic novel right here.Meet Kamala Khan:But I'm getting ahead of myself.When Ms. Marvel begins, Kamala is the teenage Muslim version of Toula in MY BIG FAT GREEK WEDDING.
She's a girl that anyone who reads Ms. Marvel-type things could see themselves being friends with.
It was weird.BUT.I've got four more volumes of Ms. Marvel waiting for me on my Kindle, so I'll soon be back with Kamala, seeing what hilarious versions of things like YouTube (MeTube) her world has to offer.
However, after developing superpowers because she’s exposed to the Terrigen Mist* Kamala quickly learns that her life has gotten way more complicated.* Look it up yourself, nerds!This title has had a lot of attention in large part due to having a lead character who is a female Muslim teenager, but if that’s all the characterization that Kamala had it wouldn’t be much of a comic.
She’s a good kid who genuinely wants to do the right thing and help people, but like a certain Marvel webspinner with responsibility issues Kamala learns that being a superhero is a lot harder than it looks and doesn’t solve any of the other problems in her life.
Well that was so so fun! I really enjoyed it a lot. I'm not used to reading comics/graphic novels so when it ends I'm always surprised - but I really enjoyed it! I loved all the modern day phrases and references, and Kamala is a great character.There was a bunch of stereotyping in the book (of Muslims, mostly) but I feel like most comics end up stereotyping groups in every story. Though that is sad, it's still great to have so much diversity. Overall a really great, fun, enjoyable read. Already reserved the next one at my library!
This time, I appreciated the challenges this Pakistani Muslim 16-year-old girl has with making a costume (yeah, she makes it; you ever wonder who makes superhero costumes?) that is at least somewhat compatible with a modest Muslim girl in 2014, acknowledging the uncomfortable and embarrassing costumes most women in comics have historically worn.Kamala Khan wants to be "part of something bigger," and she recognizes that she can justify this superhero thing because her Dad has told her, "people who help are blessed." Most of the first volume is about establishing the unfailingly interesting characters; the plot, such as it is, trying to intervene in a friend's brother's involvement with a local villain, eh.
In Ms Marvel, Kamala Khan, Pakistani immigrant in Jersey City, gets superpowers granted to her my Captain Marvel (blond female standalone version) and deals with overbearing parents, an overly religious brother, and typical high school growing pains while discovering and mastering her new abilities.
Some of the side characters are a bit stereotypical, but the idea of a brown-skinned Pakistani girl as a budding superhero is a welcome change to the blond on blond superhero universe - definitely empowering for growing girls that don’t fit into outmoded socially valued categories.
Love the art, love how this follows an islamic girl/family, but I read this thinking that I would be okay since I've never read/seen any other Marvel material, but it references the Avengers and I just feel so lost and left behind... This story was interesting but not a lot happens, so hopefully the series will pick up!
I feel a little guilty for not loving this more because I thought Ms. Marvel was going to be everything I ever hoped and dreamed for in a super hero comic book.
A Muslim, POC teen with strict, traditional parents, who fights against marginalization and the forces of evil?!
Though the artwork is beautiful, I just wasn't as captivated with the story as I thought I'd be.
I do plan to continue the series because I firmly believe it's really important to support books like these.
Plus, I'm thinking it'll get better for me as I dive deeper into the story.
This was a fun start to the reboot and I'm looking forward to upcoming volumes.
- plethora of side characters that I'm looking forward to getting developed more in the future (Bruno is adorable, btw) - Loved the art and the colors used - Coming of age and superhero story combined WHAT I DISLIKED: - I found her powers and how she got them kind of confusing.
I'm hoping they are developed more in the future as well and stray away from the tropes Overall, I really enjoyed this first volume and cannot wait for more.
Not negative, not positive.I do not think it offers anything new when comes to superhero world, unless you look at it with the eyes of diversity as our new Ms. Marvel is Pakistani and a Muslim, but it gives an interesting look at a different cultural background middle of Western world, which seems to be the main focus instead of initial superhero plot.That actually works good as it does show all sides of cultural controversies without falling into the trap of preaching or getting stuck with only the positive sides of it, on the contrary.
In this case, we have Ms. Marvel, Kamala Khan, a teenage girl who is Muslim and the daughter of Pakistani immigrants.
She's a genuinely good person who wants to do the right thing (hence the superheroics once she gets powers) who is kind of dorky and very relateable.
Kamala being a Muslim is something that gets significant play, but I never felt like it was being beaten to death.
Happily, I got a book that's very well-written, with great characters and dialog and really good art.
However, I found the storyline to be easy to follow and pretty straight forward, which is refreshing.
Sometimes I feel like comic books can be needlessly confusing in order to feign complexity, but this one sticks to one girl's story and it's interesting enough to sustain itself.As for the themes, I found them to be a but unoriginal.
However, Kamala's Muslim heritage was interesting, and how it focused a bit on gender expectations was refreshing.
I will continue to check out this series from the library because it's light and fun, and Kamala is a really great character to follow.
Finalmente Ms. Marvel no Brasil!Adorei esse quadrinho! Kamala é uma heroína incrível, nerd, muito divertida e passa por conflitos internos muito reais e fáceis de se identificar. Já quero os próximos volumes!
Her parents are very strict and put a lot of pressure on her to make the best grades, be an over-achiever, have traditional morals, and only hang around people they approve of.So obviously, Kamala accidentally gets some super powers and thus begins a fairly typical journey of exploring her new abilities, finding out what works, what doesn't, etc.
She's got a couple of typical sidekick friends and awkward interactions with the "popular" kids.Kamala is not really the rebellious type, so we get lots of interactions with her parents where she hasn't really done anything horrible, but she can't tell them the truth, so gets in trouble over and over.
I'm going to pretend I haven't seen/read the comments and reviews that basically boil down to "a Muslim American can't be a superhero, and because this story is about a Muslim American teen, it's not really a superhero book".
Despite the fact that in many ways, this is Spider-man: family issues, school issues, identity issues, except it happens to be a female character who also happens to be a person of colour and a Muslim.
I like Kamala, I like her family, I like the quirks of the art and what we've seen so far -- I just haven't seen enough yet to know how much I'm going to like it.
G Willow Wilson and editor Sana Amanat make respect for diversity look so easy and natural.
this groundbreaking series featuring comicdom's first Muslim female lead has a lot of points it wants to score regarding difference and it wants to do it in a way that is both respectful and fun.
her transformative powers cleverly parallel the feelings that any teen could have about not feeling comfortable in their own skin, taking on the physical identity of pop culture icons, and not knowing what form they will eventually take themselves.those quirky powers come alive in Adrian Alphona's wonderfully quirky art - full of playfulness with size and shape, with the occasional, surprising anime flourish.I'm not sure if I will be continuing with this likable series, but the first volume left such a sweet and spicy taste that I will always look upon it fondly.
And it does seem to be a good series, I did win the Hugo for Best Graphic Story, however I had a few issues.I felt as if the series, even though it has been stated that it is not imposing on faith, still makes Islam the main issue within her plot line, for the first few issues.
The devout brother, strict parents, disinterest of children/teens to go to the mosque; Kamala seem to be the only one to have any depth.The art was good, the same style as most superhero comics.
And when a mysterious mist blankets Jersey City and gives Kamala the ability to transform into Ms. Marvel, she finally has what she always wanted, but like Ms. Marvel warned—"It is not going to turn out the way you think."My favourite part of this comic, hands down, was the perfect balance of serious matter and humour.
This whole story was about self-growth and self-love, discovering who you are and finding a way to be confident and proud in that.
I especially loved the way that religion was written into the story, with the scenes at the mosque and the conversations between Kamala and her father.

*3.5/5
Really glad that this book exists.
An ordinary teenage girl from Jersey City, isn't so ordinary anymore.
It's easy to see that this comic will be appreciated by an audience that perhaps has never been interested in comics before at all.I have to say I felt like an old man reading their teenagers comic with this one.
I appreciate the different perspective she's coming from and that her family is very involved with her life.I'm glad to see a different type of hero and I hope she stays popular so her fans never miss out on a character they really relate to.
which, honestly was a little confusing to me, but hey, is that really what matters?Anyway, I like that we got to see a different type of family dynamic and background other than the normal.Actually, you see that not all families AREN'T so different, no matter the dynamic and background too.
I know that is confusing, but seriously you get to see that a teenager is a teenager and sometimes certain things are more important in certain cultures.
I would love to see a story like this on the big screens, wouldn't you?WrensReads | Goodreads | Twitter | Instagram
