https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/835638.The_Nutmeg_of_Consolation
I look upon them - I look upon good novels - as a very valuable part of literature, conveying more exact and finely-distinguished knowledge of the human heart and mind than almost any other, with greater breadth and depth and fewer constraints.” ― Patrick O'Brian, The Nutmeg of Consolation For action, this book is a bit light.
However, after that, the book ends up in Australia (New South Wales) where Dr. Maturin contemplates happiness, money, family and addition.
He also confronts the harsh conditions in New South Wales, where everything has been degraded by the penal colony economy.
We join Captain Jack Aubrey and Stephen Maturin in the East Indies as they are rescued from a deserted island, acquire the beautifully Dutch-built small frigate the Nutmeg of Consolation, fight a running sea-battle with the much larger French frigate Cornelie, meet up with all of their chums aboard HMS Surprise, and then visit the penal colony of New South Wales in Australia.
The action at sea and ashore is tense and engaging; as well as being full of the wonders of science and nature that Stephen and his friend Martin explore on the islands they visit and in the Australian outback.
Intelligently written. Good story. Interesting characters. Unsure about the characters, they seem a little bit to complex for sailors...
The one with the lady pirate, the cannibals, Australia, and the platypus. A very Stephen-centric novel, but without the spying and intrigue. Lots of interesting info about the New South Wales section of Australia, and a creepy new fact about the cuddly platypus.
His descriptive detail, the viewpoints of the characters, (mostly and seemingly increasingly from Maturin), the vast knowledge of contemporary technology, proceedings, and customs, as well as just the feeling of having been taken back in time, does more than enough to compel one to read this series.
As the saying goes, it's the journey, not the destination, which is just as well, because when O'Brian brings his books to a close, he doesn't do so by gently closing the door so much as yanking out the plug.
May he rest in peace.
A little slower and little more self-indulgent than some of the previous entries, but a delight from start to finish, as always.
The early part, on the island, put me in mind of Far Side of the World (only better than what we find in that installment), and the return to India (which was very enjoyable in the previous book) and the exploration of Australia was lovely.
Not too many sea battles here, but it’s perhaps funnier than any of the previous books.
Wonderful to finally get back to the Surprise, but I must say that I hold a special place in my heart for the Nutmeg, and I hope we haven’t seen the last of her.
Great historical fiction, only passingly good fiction. A fun read, nonetheless.The usual suspects maneuvered around the western Pacific to touch on as many real--or realistic--situations as possible. Some sub-plots better developed than others, but surely the Aubery-Maturin true believers will love it all.O'Brian resisted the temptation to leave us hanging from another cliff.
Has something died behind the wainscot?”“My dear,” said the Governor, “It is this new plant, which is to be named after Dr Maturin.”[...]“It would I am sure be indiscreet to ask why you were turned before the mast,” said the Dutch lady most at home in English.“Well, ma’am,” said Jack with an engaging leer, “it was partly due to my devotion to the sex, but even more because I stole the captain’s tripe.”“Sex?” cried the Dutch ladies, “Tripe?” They whispered among themselves, blushed, looked very grave, and fell silent.[...]“You are luckier than I am in that way.
Every one of my Patrick O'Brian reviews are the same: I love these books!
I think the best bit of this one is them being shipwrecked (again!) and having to find a way out of it.
This kind of thing really makes you realize how little ability modern people have with their hands.
I know that *I* couldn't build a ship from scratch using the materials from a wrecked one plus whatever was available on a desert island.
How about you?I'll be sad when I come to the end of the series.
But wait, that means I can start again from the beginning right?
Here is Aubrey considering the action afterwards:‘To some degree it was the prodigious contrast between two modes of life: in violent hand-to-hand fighting there was no room for time, reflexion, enmity or even pain unless it was disabling; everything moved with extreme speed, cut and parry with a reflex as fast as a sword-thrust, eyes automatically keeping watch on three or four men within reach, arm lunging at the first hint of a lowered guard, a cry to warn a friend, a roar to put an enemy off his stroke; and all this in an extraordinarily vivid state of mind, a kind of fierce exaltation, an intense living in the most immediate present.
Nutmeg of Consolation has Aubrey and Maturin recovering from a shipwreck on an island.
They manage to get off the island with the help of a passing ship that came to collect birds nests which are used for "bird's nest soup".
They then set off to intercept a French vessel that they encountered in a previous book.
Maturin has an unfortunate encounter with a platypus and the book ends on this strange incident, something that Patrick O'Brian has done on more than one occasion.
Which perhaps reflects the author's view, while the wide sweep of Europe's history progresses, men are left to deal with far smaller local problems.
O'Brian creates characters flawed enough to be human, without becoming base.
Not the best of men, but rising to better as circumstance demands.And while the author leaves the great sweep of history largely aside, the detailed history of these men's lives, the sacrifices, the conditions of life at sea are truly fascinating.
This, the 14th novel in the British naval historical fiction series telling the stories of captain Jack Aubrey and physician/spy Stephen Maturin, may be my favorite so far in this engaging, erudite, albeit long series.
Anyway, this installment is chock-full of fabulousness-- shipwreck on a desert island, Malay pirates, bird's nest soup, enemy French warships, Australia.
(Australia, by the way, comes off as a truly miserable place at this period in its history, with its population of prisoners and ill-treated Aboriginal people.)And whatever you do, beware the platypus.
Patrick O'Brian continues as excellently as always.
This story doesn't really have a dramatic arc of any sort and is simply a continuation of the voyage that started in the previous novel.
But that does not mean that important issues are not handled: Captain Aubrey is shown to suffer from a condition that changes his behavior while Maturin struggles with his sense of responsibility for an old friend who is now suffering as a convict in Australia.
After taking a hiatus from the Jack Aubrey series from the last unsuccessful attempt (The Thirteen Gun Salute), I finally picked up this volume.You would think that this book wasn't that good considering the time it took me to read.
It was good to see the camaraderie between Jack and Stephen once again.
I thought the story was interesting, though perhaps not quite as exciting as some of their other world-wide excursions, but still, it flowed along at a good pace.All in all the story entertained, pleased and endorsed what I already knew - I love these books!
Stephen's experience is life in a nutshell.
You have a ship.
Your ship is gone.
Your money is gone.
You have shipmates.
Your shipmates have been killed.
You have a nice supply of coca leaves.
But you find a new ship.
You make more money.
You make more money.
You get new shipmates.
So many major life changes in just a few short weeks.What remains constant: Friendship.
Devotion to his professional goals.
The mission he has sworn to carry out.
(Marriage isn't included in this list, because although Stephen is still married, his relationship with his wife has never been exactly stable.)
This is now my third time reading through this brilliant series and I am reminded again how beautifully written and how wonderfully, addictively enjoyable they are.The sublimely titled Nutmeg Of Consolation finds Jack and his wrecked and battered crew still in the Far East, but restored to a ship and heading for their rendezvous with the Surprise and thence to the penal colonies of New South Wales to refit.
O'Brian's handling of language is masterly, with the dialogue being especially brilliant, but also things like the way his sentences become shorter and more staccato in the action passages, making them heart-poundingly exciting.
How you bled!''This time I was bitten by a tapir, and bled even more.'Oh Lord, I love them too much for words.Where I'm at now Martin keeps steadily refusing Stephen's dinner invitations and Jack's getting jealous of how much time M and S are spending together.
I don't think Stephen's very much aware of it, though and anyway Jack's invited Martin over to the cabin for some music, so yay for good will...
I just want to get back home and see it.___Nutmeg of Consolation.I cannot believe I have finally given up and started slashing Sir Joseph and Stephen.

these books ate just consistently brilliant.and wow does transportation-era Australia sound horrible!
The only other friendship I can think of off hand that at times comes close to this one is that of Frodo and Sam. These are not novels of naval sea action or espionage or life in the era of the Napoleonic Wars or of natural history exploration.
However, to their core, these are stories of a friendship.For me, reading an Aubrey/Maturin novel is like spending time with old familiar friends.
The earlier books have more of the action and commentary happening through periodic journal entries or letters home written by Jack or Stephen.
Patrick O'Brian has done a wonderful job keeping things new.
There is a lot going on in the world in the early 1800's and these novels are a great way to explore a vast many subjects.
There is a lot of tension on shore in Australia and not once, but twice, it's questionable whether or not Dr. Stephen Maturin will make it back to Ashgrove cottage and see his growing family.
Each offers a wonderful mix of anatomy, nature, philosophy, war, world events, political and personal struggle and the state of things in the early 1800s
On the other hand, it made for an incredibly engaging and satisfying novel which I finished very, very quickly, building smoothly to a great cliffhanger of an ending.I was delighted to see Padeen return, especially after a novel which was scattered throughout with some less than complimentary remarks about Ireland from a couple of the minor characters.
I'm always delighted, too, with just how well O' Brian manages to take the rhythms and speech-patterns of Irish and translate them into English for those parts where Padeen is speaking to Stephen; especially since, as far as I know, O' Brian didn't have any Irish himself.As ever, I'm looking forward to the next volume; especially if it finally lets us meet Baby Maturin.
Unfortunately this installment took too long to get moving.
The rescue attempt to get Padeen out of prison in New South Wales was the exciting, torturous final act the book needed to keep me listening.I also loved the two orphaned Melanesian island girls, Sarah and Emily, that were taken aboard ship from a village decimated by disease.
Stephen's paternal attitude towards them fit in nicely with the news he finally gets about the birth of his daughter.It was satisfying by the end, but it took a long while to get there.
Although I didn't enjoy Patrick Tull's narration nearly as much as that of Simon Vance in other books in this series, I still really liked the story and got used to Mr. Tull.
The previous book ("The Thirteen Gun Salute") kind of leaves the reader high and dry (along with Jack Aubrey et al) and leaves the reader with a feeling of urgency to go on to the next.As this book begins Aubrey and Maturin and their ship's company are left shipwrecked on a (fortunately) non-desert island.
Later in Australia Maturin enjoys encountering new species.
I used to think that I just liked the exploits of Jack Aubrey and Steven Maturin but, in truth, I now believe that I enjoy the series because of the beautiful prose of Patrick O’Brian.This is the second installment of “The Thirteen Gun Salute” and starts with the ship’s crew on an island building a boat from the remnants of Jack’s command that was destroyed in a typhoon.
Next they’re attached by Borneo head hunter pirates in a GREAT land battle!
Then, there’s a GREAT accounting of Steven Maturin’s sword fight.
Certainly one of the more geographically adventurous chapters in the series.
This comes nearer to the tail end of a very long voyage that spans several books fought with much hardship.
All of this hardship; the shipwreck, the marooning, the raiding Malay pirates, and the misery of Botany Bay juxtaposed against the happy sights and thoughts of home.
I think it is best summed up by the very last line of text in which Stephen says to Jack, "I cannot tell you how ardently, how very ardently I look forward to going home."
I forget who it was said that if Jane Austen had a brother who'd gone to sea, he might have written the Aubrey & Maturin books, but there's a lot in it.
The waspish wit and the godawful social minefields are all here, but then so is so much more.
There's also stuff which would never have been possible in a novel of the time, but which one feels sure is accurate, for O'Brian has that great gift - shared by Marguerite Yourcenar and precious few others - of writing historical novels which, without ever seeming artless, ring wholly true throughout.
Just started the audio book - but I've been eager to finish the story arc started in The Thirteen Gun salute. Jack, Stephen and all my favorite crew are marooned on a desert island after a shipwreck - with important intelligence documents! I'll let you know if it holds up the standard or the previous series.I have now finished reading all the Aubrey/Maturin books in order TWICE!!! They have enriched my life so much by knowing so much real information about England's navy in Napoleonic times. So much of our western culture comes from those times and places.
Another leg of the journey finished. Started in Batavia, Java, ended in Sydney, New South Wales. A shipwreck; a flight with pirates on Swallow-Nest island; a hitchhike on-board a Chinese junk, a new ship, a naval battle with a French frigate, Cornelie. Reunion with old HMHS Surprise; The turning fortune of Dr. Maturin. Well paced, lots of action, on land and sea. Language is precise, charming, and elegant. By now, I must be a seasoned sea dog, as Dr. Maturin described himself, :-)Delve in the next book, Truelove, right away.
