https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1189976.Sleeping_Where_I_Fall
Peter Coyote is an actor now, but back in the day, he was a member of the San Francisco diggers community.
His dad Morris was from rough, East-side, Jewish NYC, later a plutocrat financier.
According to this narrative, in 1970, while visiting Peter, Morris said:“Capitalism is dying, boy.
It’s dying of its own internal contradictions.
You think the revolution’s gonna take 5 years?
It’s gonna take fifty!
If you can make a difference, do it, but there are huge forces at work here, and they have to play themselves out according to their own design, not yours.
If you want to know what the Counter Culture was really all about, read this memoir.
Yes, drugs were ingested, people had premarital sex.
That's not what the Revolution was about.
Not all of us Counter Culturistas took drugs, but we did buy into the peace, love, and understanding mantra and worldview.
And as Elvis Costello once said, "What's so funny 'bout peace, love, and understanding?" If you treasure the search for a balance of individualism and community, this book is a must read.
so, diggers, san francisco mime, olema in califa and other communes in colorado (drop city) and new mexico communes, be-in's and teach-in's with ginsberg (and ginsburg too) then hollywood and indie films, then mainstream documentaries and indie documentaries.
very well written, documented, and fair look back at hippies and what was accomplished and how that is manifested in late 20th century (i think this was written in 1998) .
is it good, perfect, fair, loving, peaceful, healthy, fun?
significant book that goes very nicely with some new fiction like bisson's Any Day Now: A Novel , groff's Arcadia and kunzru's Gods Without Men
Peter Coyote’s Sleeping Where I Fall was the first autobiography / non fiction I ever read.
What I found appealing about Coyote’s words was their bluntness.
While many autobiography’s and non fiction novels feature people using words that seem to connote apology or regret, Coyote’s did not.
Instead he was blunt with his words and feelings on the occurrences of his life, never offering regret or apology, but owning his life just as he owns his words.
If one person can make me feel part of or closer to an entire era, then they must be doing something right.
They lived what they said, and Peter Coyote provides all the details.
For anyone dreaming of commune life, be warned: Communal living is hard, especially if drugs are involved.If you are interested in San Francisco or West Coast history, you will enjoy this book.
The downside is that sometimes Coyote repeats himself, and his editor doesn't stop him.
Many of the stories follow a similar pattern:1.
We got in a fight.2.
We took drugs together, slept together, or both.4.
Those guys are jerks.Once you get through that pattern and skim over a few of the fights, you'll have a good time.

You would think this would've been an interesting book and a chance to gain insight on the idealistic Bay Area hippie scene of the 60's.But it was surprisingly painful to read.
On TV and in the movies Coyote seems like a likable, open-minded kind of guy.
But in this memoir Coyote seems to want to justify a lot of some really bad and irresponsible behavior with a lot of really loony pseudo-intellectual ideological B.S. Though he tries over eagerly to impress with the supposed creativity and intellect of he and his friends, I got the very annoying impression that Coyote and his artist friends were just scammers who truly thought they were much smarter than everyone else.
A great read for the 50th Anniversary of the Summer of Love from someone who was there.
I've always like Peter Coyote as an actor; he has a beautiful voice which is easily recognizable in many documentaries, and I recognize and admire his talent and apparent intelligence.
I was surprised to read of his radical youth, amazed at his many adventures and impressed by his intelligent approach to his craft (acting), as well as his politics.
I'm not sure if that's just the way the words seem on the written page, and perhaps it would be better to listen to him narrating his memoirs (such a recording must exist somewhere).
Speaking for myself, I read this book for two reasons:(1) Personal associations: I know Peter Coyote's sister, I like watching him on the screen, and I didn't even know or remember he had written this book until I recently read that he has a new book coming out.
(2) Personal history: I was coming of age in the 1960s-70s but felt no, may I repeat no, connection to the counterculture and its causes, and have always felt that was a vacuum in my past that I couldn't explain/understand.I'm glad I read the book.
Sleeping Where I Fall is an autobiographical book from Peter Coyote.
What you probably don't know is that before he was 40, when he decided he would try his hand at an acting career on the big screen, he was a "live off the land" hippie, a fervent believer in alternative cultures that eschew capital and personal property and value human connection and respect of the land and of the spirit, a man who chose his last name as most representing of himself.
Frankly, I am disappointed to see that neither Sleeping Where I Fall or Ringolevio are offered free on that site.
An interesting glimpse into the counterculture of a radical SF Mime Troupe performer and what life was like living as a communard and gypsy in the 60's and 70's.
What annoyed me at times was the vocabulary.
I know big words too, but that doesn't mean I need to inundate my text with lengthy, obtuse verbiage (see what I did there), when simple words suffice to get the message across.
There are not that many lessons I can take away after finishing it, so it feels like a waste of time.
Still, interesting to peek into a lifestyle I'd have no interest in joining.
I loved this book. I think Coyote is a good writer... we all know he's an amazing narrator (I listened to this book). He told a good story and it was full of insight into the cultural revolution that was the Sixties.
Peter Coyote documents both the time he spent in the counter-culture communities of the Diggers and the Free Family -- as well as the colorful, endearing, and sometimes contradictory individuals that traveled along that Path with him.
I see the contents of the book as a celebration, a re-telling of a time frame in our (Americans) History that is continually trivialized in the press, and swept under the rug in the newer History texts.
For me, I step away from this book with a greater understanding of the time frame - not a perfect understanding, just a better one.
Coyote was there and, better than that, he has the great storyteller's ability to put you there, also.
It’s meaty stuff and I must say, Coyote and his pals are heroes and their actions made the world a better place even if, some days, it does not seem so now.
Here is one key paragraph, one that I took most to heart: “If you accept without question premises of profit and private property and if you pursue those ends, even in the best of faith, then eventually the cultural mall we call America will stand before you, the product of cumulative actions.
This quote that best sums up what I disliked about the book and his writing:"I missed the demonstration, having overslept after a bawdy night with an undergraduate Valkerie who was not about to let me go until I had decimated every ideological misconception and physical tension she had accumulated since birth."While he did live a fascinating life and had many adventures, by the end, I mostly wanted it to be over so it wouldn't be earning fines at the library.
Now that would have been a good ending!
This is a memoir of Peter Coyote's time with the Diggers in SF and other communes in which he took part.
It is an honest chronicle of that era and the mind set of the adults who bravely went forward to create a new paradigm.
Not much literature is written accurately about this era.
Bravo to Peter Coyote for putting his experiences out there and creating a record of truth.
Personally I found, Clane Hayward's memoir, The Hypocrisy of Disco, more deeply penetrating and touching, but she is my age, and saw these adults the way I did, so that stands to reason.
As memoirs go - the reader can only hope that the author has lived an interesting life and has spent some time in reflection, and can articulate the journey.
Peter Coyote is a gold medal winner in all three of my memoir categories.
He was part of the the improvisational mime troupe that helped form the Diggers and the Free Family in SF in the 60s, then lived in Olema (!) where he finally ran afoul of the Hells Angels, whose leader he had befriended in the city.
He tells the stories of daily communal living and philosophic wrangling with some learned humility and some great insight.
I was surprised to like this book so much.
Peter Coyote writes wisely and patiently about his younger self and the other Diggers/ Free Family members and about the limitless sense of counterculture possibility and power in the late 1960s.
While he's frank about his missteps, he doesn't make excuses, nor does he judge too harshly; he thoughtfully assesses the weaknesses in their worldview: excessive drug use, sexism, indulgence, and the erroneous conflation of order/peace with uniformly hated conformity.
He could have focused a bit more on the sexism: boy, those folks treated women like garbage!
Let's hope he's now a fully Modern Man.
Amazing. No other book I have read on the 70s counterculture brings so many of the pieces & various groups that shaped the times together. Hells Angels, Diggers, Communes, San Fran Theater, the music, the politics, the mindset are all lovingly described by the man who was there. Though Coyote slept with Janis Joplin etc, he recounts his story not from a place of fame but rather by one who hopes to get a better understanding by looking back at what they were trying to achieve & admitting where they failed.
I enjoyed this book and recommended it. It is a story of trying to create a life that rejects the rules and expectations of the American culture of the late 60s and early 70s, and the ultimate realization that you cannot base a community on the rejection of all rules, because a community must have a social structure. Despite the author's frequent protestations, I think they did not successfully acknowledge and reject the gender norms of the time. Despite frequent references to drug/sex excesses, the book is not explicit.
I read this for a college course and while it was perfect material for the class it also connected with me on a personal level. For me this was a book that has stuck with me and taught me more things about society and myself than I expected. It is well written and as you're reading you can't help but feel that he is being raw and honest. If you're a counter culture history buff it is certainly worth reading.
This book is a wonderfully written autobiography, the main focus being on Coyote's time in the San Francisco Mime Troupe, the Diggers, and time spent on various communes. His writing is flowing without being flowery, and anecdotal without being braggy. His writing of his past is done in a rare way--it is rich and vibrant, but lacks the overly nostalgic rose-coloured glasses approach seen in many other autobios.
I enjoyed this book, the stories that piece together the counter-culture that took place in the 60's were engaging, meaningful, and memorable. Coyote's over-linguistic descriptions did get in my way of enjoying this book more. Also, the first half or more of the book was chronologically amiss. Coyote's afterward was poetic.
Interesting account of "doing the 60s" by a resident of the front lines of the counterculture. Even though this lifestyle and its so-called anarchy seem so far removed from real life now as to have occurred on another planet, it's good that this period is chronicled for those who weren't there.
I couldn't finish the book. It was interesting up to a point, and there were some good thoughts; but I got bored with it about halfway through. I wasn't part of the California hippy scene, so I couldn't relate; but I am sure those who grew up in California would find it entertaining.
The guy can write, and his life story contained in this book is engrossing. But was he a true anarchist? Fuck no he wasn't. Is he an egoist? Sure, but read the book anyways if you like stories about the 60s.
Like most autobiographies from celebrities, this has more name-dropping than entirely necessary, but I could relate to the times...
An amazingly personal perspective of the heart of the 60's. Haight Ashbery, the Diggers, the Hell's Angels and a scathing review of Easy Rider.
Peter Coyote is a fascinating guy, this was a very interesting book about his life during the 60"s when he help found and lived and worked on the country's "most successful hippie commune"
