https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/561909.The_Hiding_Place
Corrie's personal narrative of her World War II experiences genuinely are "amazing," in the true sense of the word --both in terms of what she and others went through, what they were called on to do, and the attitude that she and her sister were able to take toward it all.
And while, other things being equal, I prefer fiction to nonfiction when I'm reading for pleasure, this book consists of narrative --"story," if you will-- that has the same intrinsic appeal as fiction (perhaps more, simply because it is true) and is every bit as gripping and engrossing.Of course, Corrie's story is inseparably steeped with her deep Christian faith, and is impossible to understand apart from it.
Two questions kept going through my head in the journey with Corrie: "Are there really people in the world who are this GOOD?" and "Why am I such a selfish, ungrateful, spoiled brat?"I loved the paradox of a tragedy not told as tragedy.
Or, Corrie, we can ask God to open up another route for that love to travel.
Whenever we cannot love in the old, human way, Corrie, God can give us the perfect way.""It is wrong to base faith upon wishes.
Can't we make a home for them and care for them and love them?'"'Corrie, I pray every day that we will be allowed to do this!
Corrie, in particular, devotes her time and attention to caring for and helping these persecuted people and takes great risks in the process.Eventually, their happy family life, which had gradually been eroded by events on the horizon, is shattered as the entire family are captured and led off to Germany.
Of course it was not my wholeness, but Christ's that made the difference.The breakthrough comes when Corrie, following the example of her never wavering sister who even praises God for the fleas, realises that all is not in vain and life has a purpose again:But as the rest of the world grew stranger, one thing became increasingly clear.
The second half, set during the war years and Corrie's imprisonment in Ravensbruck, was all about worshipping God and Jesus, praying, miracles and prophecies.
Honestly, when an author expects me, as a reader, to actually believe that any religious doctrine is the truth I feel like my intelligence is being insulted and it is downright offensive."https://www.goodreads.com/review/show..."it seems to be a bit whitewashed in the veil of faith in Jesus to solve all, in prayers that constantly come through and in the miracle of the never ending vitamins.
Call me a sceptic, but I found the constant references to Jesus annoying."https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...4/10
One of my favorite themes of the book is stated by the author on page 31: "the experiences of our lives, when we let God use them, become the mysterious and perfect preparation for the work He will give us to do." Goes along with my belief that all things will work together for our good.
We can trust in Him that all things will work together for our good.
Several pages later, the author explains how even the fleas worked together for their good (p.220).
Although Corrie is a deeply commited Christian you don't have be of any particular religion to read and appreciate this book.
She risked everything including her life during World War II to save as many Jews as possible from the Nazi regime in Holland.
She and her older sister Betsie lived through terrifying times to achieve this and endured starvation, torture and humiliation when captured by the Gestapo.
The second part is all about how they devote their lives to the rescue of Jews from the enemy.
Corrie and her sister have a powerful faith in God and the story is inspiring but heartrending.
"The Hiding Place" was one of her favorite books; I remember her telling stories about it and reading passages aloud when I was a kid.
"The Hiding Place" is the story of a Dutch family who helped Jews hide from Nazis during World War II.
Throughout the ordeal, Corrie relied on her Christian beliefs to give her hope and strength.After finishing the book, I can understand why my mother was so captivated by Corrie's story.
My mom was also strong in her Christian faith, and she had a longtime fascination with World War II, always trying to understand how such a tragedy could have happened.
That's the best I can do on a book that came highly recommended and that I read with relish as I had just been to Amsterdam and surrounding areas, visited the Museum of the Resistance and the old Jewish Synagogue referred to in the book.
The father figure was an admirable man, a man of principle who lived truly an exemplary life and imparted his teachings to not only his family, but all who surrounded him.
I think the old saying that "time heals everything" clearly applies to this book, as it seems to be a bit whitewashed in the veil of faith in Jesus to solve all, in prayers that constantly come through and in the miracle of the never ending vitamins.
It’s a heartbreaking, painful read.
It’s also full of faith, strength, kindness and perseverance.
As conditions become increasingly worse for the unfortunate people in her beloved town, she decides to put her life in danger in order to save those of others.
I’m not religious but these characters are and they walk with a strong belief and unwavering (for the most part) faith and a gratitude for everything, even ants and fleas, yet I never felt preached at.
Their faith makes up a big part of who they were and how they managed to make it through the inhumane conditions.
It’s not a book I will easily forget.


Slow in spots but overall, a good, sad book.
I was definitely in awe of the unwavering and deeply held faith of this inspiring Dutch Christian family before, during and after WWII.
But to pray for those who were behind the terrors and daily tortures of their incarceration - the kinds of torture often found during times of war - takes faith in God to a level above that of even the most devout Christians.
But that is the kind of faith found in this family.
And their faith in God brought about daily miracles in spite of the most horrific circumstances.
This is the story of Corrie ten Boom, a self-described "spinster" watchmaker who lived with her father and sister and was pushing fifty when she became part of the Dutch Resistance helping to hide Jews from the Nazis.
I don't think Ten Boom ever consciously shaded the truth, but especially given this was recounted almost thirty years later when Ten Boom was in her seventies, I do wonder if time put a gloss on memories such as the vitamin drop "miracle." Anne Frank's account of hiding in an Amsterdam annex from the Nazis came directly from her diaries written very close to events.
Also, though it tells an extraordinary story, it's not always extraordinarily well-written when I compare it to the other books mentioned above.
What makes this particular book different from other (better) stories about the Holocaust is that it's from the perspective of a Christian woman who was interned.
While it's extremely important for us not to forget that one group of people was specifically targeted (Jews) it's also important for us to realize that this horrible thing went beyond that.
This horrible thing didn't just affect "them"/"those other people" (oh isn't that sad?, what's for dinner?") but it affected the whole world.
But non-Jews sometimes need more than an abstract reminder of how the Holocaust affected us all.
This book had such an impact on me. How would I respond if I was faced with such intense trials and persecution? Every Christian should read this book, so powerful and encouraging! <3
Upon meeting one of her former S.S. jailers at a church service years after these events, Corrie struggled to eventually accept the hand held out to her by this man.
Whatever bravery or skill I had ever shown were gifts of God – sheer loans from Him of the talent needed to do a job.” I don’t believe these gifts are taken away from us.
I gave this 3.5 stars rounded to 4 stars for the heroism shown by the ten Booms and for my admiration of their undying faith and the inspiration they offered to hundreds of individuals during their time of need.
I love reading about the Holocaust, but this was the first time I could sense such a chasm between a sweet, elderly, epitome-of-Christian woman and the cruel hatred of the Nazi camps.Even before the war, the family's charity and service was inspiring.
The true test of our character comes under stressful times and their willingness to search for service in the trenches of hatred was heart warming.I have often wondered if I would risk my family's life to protect another, but I have never questioned whether or not I would lie.
And sure enough, when they told Nazi enquirers dangerous information, they were always protected.
Though the people in their ‘Hiding Place’ stay safe, she and her father and sister and a few others are taken away to a prison camp where most of the remainder of the story takes place.There, Corrie’s father and sister Betsie both die - her father shortly after they arrive and her sister just days before they are released.
He is our hiding place in time of trouble.This book can teach you so much … about history, about people, and most of all, about God. It’s really an incredible work - and the fact that it’s a true story makes it even more impressive.The author was very honest about the tough things she went through and the things she saw others go through.
Anne Frank should be taught in such away that students know the before and after as well as the diary, that they know the truth about the denist, for instance.The Hiding Place is about another Dutch family during the Holocaust.
The fact that the story takes place outside of Amsterdam or Rotterdam (which was violently bombed by the Germans) is good because not only does it present the rescuers but another city's experience as well.The ten Boom family at the time of WW II consisted of Corrie, her two older sisters (Betsie and Nollie), her older brother Willim, her father Casper and the various child of Nollie and Wilhelm.
I listened to this on audio book in one sitting....I was mesmerised, I couldn't tear myself away from it...I didn't want to.What an amazing story, what amazing courageous women, Corrie Ten Boom shows how faith can carry you through all manner of terrible trials.
Then, as a consequence after being caught, her time spent in a German concentration camp with her elder sister Betsie, and how, through their undying faith, they coped and survived together until Betsie became ill and Corrie had to cope without her.
"And so I discovered that it is not on our forgiveness any more than on our goodness that the world's healing hinges, but on His. When He tells us to love our enemies, He gives, along with the command, the love itself." This book breaks your heart in different ways - breaks your heart for the pain people suffered, the raw truth of the war, and for the inexpressible goodness of God, for there is no pit so deep that He is not deeper still. Recommended. (Have tissues handy!)
The Hiding Place is one of my favorite books. Corrie ten Boom was 48 years old when Hitler invaded her hometown in Holland. She had spent her life caring for the family home and working in her father’s watch shop. But at 50 years of age, she became one of the leaders in the underground resistance in Holland. For 2  years, she helped many Jews go into hiding. Not only did she risk her life for this mission, but she also lived her life for it. She spent nearly a year imprisoned in the concentratio
She spent nearly a year imprisoned in the concentration camps.
She turned a former concentration camp into a bastion of healing.
The Hiding Place is the story of her preparation.
Corrie could never have led the resistance, survived the concentration camps, and gone on to become such an inspiration to so many without that vital preparation.
She was led by the Voice of Conscience—first in her preparation and later in her life's mission.When you finish reading The Hiding Place, make sure you pick up a copy of Tramp For the Lord.
Tramp For the Lord continues Corrie's story after The Hiding Place.
This book was emaculent!
This was by far the most moving book I've ever read!
This book was sad- a good sad.
This is a book that not only told you the pains and terrible predicaments but also showed where they were given strength!
It showed who never left them even in the darkest of places!
Who was their hiding place in time of need!
This book was brilliant!
This book is on my list of favorite books because this book moved me and reminded me that wherever I go the Lord will be there too- my hiding place!!!
The Hiding Place is, next to The Diary of a Young Girl by Anne Frank, one of the best and most inspirational true stories I've ever read about finding the courage and resilience to outsmart the evils of Nazism in one of humanity's darkest hours. Corrie was a strong woman and this book gives a lot of insight into what she faced.
Like the Old Testament lamp that never ran out of oil and the Ravensbruck vitamin bottle that never ran out of medicine until new medicine was provided, this story is miraculous in it's ability to keep you filled with just enough hope and just enough awe to keep reading without feeling gutted.
To be thankful for the fleas - because they provided incredible miraculous protection from something much worse - is the epitome of the message of the ten Booms and their beautiful true story.
Reader who does not think that they can read one more Holocaust book, I understand.
A healing and hopeful classic.
I have read this book twice.
My daughter Emily has read it at least four times.
One day when she was about 14 I asked her why she loved this book so much.
She said, "I want a life just like Corrie Ten Boom." I said in a searching surprised voice, "You want to be sent to a concentration camp?" She said, "No mom, duh, I want to be that kind of person.
I want to have that kind of faith."This is an amazingly inspiring book.
And, I never contemplate forgiveness that I don't see Corrie in my mind.If you haven't read this wonderful book yet.

Where to begin when it comes to "The Hiding Place" by Corrie ten Boom?
I sit here at a loss for words because I know that nothing I can say will begin to display the emotions and thoughts swirling around in my mind.
"There is no pit so deep that God's love is not deeper still." -Casper ten Boom passed on by Corrie.
Every experience God gives us, every person He puts in our lives is the perfect preparation for a future that only He can see.'" -Corrie ten Boom"'There is sin in this world, and death and loss are consequences of that sin.
It's given me so many things to think about.Corrie and several members of her family are imprisoned in several different Nazi camps throughout the end of WWII for helping run the "underground" operation in Holland.
I'll share with you just a couple of the things that stood out to me.As a young woman, Corrie is totally and completely in love with a friend of her brother, Karel.
Or, Corrie, we can ask God to open up another route for that love to travel.
When she finally heard her sister, Betsie, downstairs in the kitchen and ran down to join her.
