https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10611944-what-the-butler-winked-at
The butler was the highest-ranking servant, the lady's maid was often as much of a companion as a servant to the lady, and the valet belonged to that class of trusted "body servants" with direct access to the aristocrat employer's actual person - a holdover from early feudal days, when important men were heavily guarded and the body servant was the only one who could enter the master's quarters unannounced.
Maybe Horne was trying to pull a Richard Henry Dana (Two Years Before the Mast) and use a popular piece of writing to draw attention to the plight of servant's and sympathy for their condition, but it didn't work as well in this.
Maybe because Two Years Before the Mast is a tight, compelling human drama, while "What the Butler Winked At" is just a sort of endless old man's rambling with no particular point or narrative direction.
If you've read everything else on your own Downton reading list and you need something to tide you over until Season 3, this one is ok, but if you're just getting started, try one of the better memoirs first.
A Gentleman's butler relates stories of his years in service. It was very amusing for the most part - I particularly liked the pseudonyms he gave his former employers - lovely names like Lord Cayenne (a hot tempered man) and Sir Grizle de Bluster. Of the latter he said, "Sir Grizel was a typical Member of Parliament, with the brains of a rabbit". His observations were comical but sometimes, it was sad because many servants were treated like dirt by the rich and it makes one understand how difficult it was for the servant class.
I'll say it up front; If you're looking for a cohesive story as opposed to one man's anecdotes about his life experiences, this is not the book for you. He does wander a fair amount in his writing and it is certainly archaic in spelling and in slang. It's not the most polished of books, but I found it interesting. I rather liked it myself, but I was using it and the anecdotes therein as research material, so I was coming at it from a different angle than I imagine most folks were.
I heard of this book from Downton Abbey. Apparently the writers of the show had referred to Horne's work for the show. Its an interesting memoir of a time gone by. The life of a servant in an English country house is carefully discussed. The author is a butler not a writer and the whole tone is rather conversational. It can wander a bit but I enjoyed his style.
Quickie reprint of a butler's memoir from 1923,re-released to capitalize on Downton Abbey mania. The writing style is old fashioned, the jokes are musty and most of the anecdotes are pretty dry. But Mr. Horne is Carson-like in his devotion to the old days. I enjoyed imagining him writing this and including every perceived slight and workplace drama he could remember, for posterity.
I can't imagine that I wouldn't like a memoir by a butler, and a butler who started work in the 19th century. Wrong. The writer is unbearably pompous, and the book's structure is a mess. The book really consists of random stories, no chronological or thematic unity, and to make it worse, the stories are not well told. I skimmed the second half of the book just in case it got better. It didn't.
A good quick read in a lighthearted tone. It was a little too choppy for my taste and I think it would have been more enjoyable as a series of essays rather than the one long memoir.
More of a vaguely-ordered stream of consciousness memoir where interesting anecdotes are interspersed with "everything is terrible now - no one knows their place or takes care of servants properly" potification. Still, it's a firsthand look (albeit some years removed) at what it was like to grow up and advance in service.
Anecdotal, 29th c to early 20th c, interesting
Yes, he does describe some things he felt he did very well; playing the violin, cleaning and polishing silver, and keeping the old rules.
His spelling may be archaic, and his style haphazard, but it is interesting, informative, and a darned sight better than a lazy author who pays someone to write his books for him because he has become an example of the type of people the long-ago Aristocracy frequently were....."above it all." Well done Mr. Horne, you served for a lifetime and have earned your rest.
Felt like I was reading an historic document found in an attic.
A pleasant read, even if the prose was a bit sloppy and there was really no plot.
A lot of work, some camaraderie downstairs if you were lucky, little closeness to your employer even if you were lucky enough to get a nice one, a frequent moving-on to look for another position, and really no time for a family.
The writer illustrates that the world of Downton Abbey--especially the closeness of the servants to their employers and the caring of the employers for the servants--was not really the reality servants experience.
I picked this up at the Houghton Hall exhibit at the Legion of Honor museum, thinking the title promised lots of fun gossip about the gentry.
The book recounts a lot of hard times and personal and family suffering, so it is not exactly a fun read, but the author's sarcastic tone toward it all makes it more enjoyable than it should be.
Curious to see that editors did not correct any obvious errors, no doubt ostensibly for "authenticity" but my guess is to undermine the authority of the writer for any of the upper-class readers.
After 57 years in service to the British gentry, butler Eric Horne wrote his memoirs in 1922.
This is a rare first-hand account of life "downstairs", giving a unique view of the lives of the aristocracy as well as their servants.More a collection of anecdotes than a properly structured and organized memoir, I enjoyed this for what is is.
Horne, while somewhat educated, comes from a poor background and has written down his memories in his seventies.
Granted, it's not polished, it's not written for Horne by an author, and it hasn't been "cleaned up" for modern audiences, but to me that adds to the charm.
I really wavered between two and three stars.
Parts of the book were really interesting and of course other parts not so much.
The book read like the ramblings of an old man.
There is a lot of grousing here.
Horne had plenty to grouse about obviously and I don't blame him for being disgruntled with the life of a servant.
However, not so enjoyable to read a long litany of complaints.
I decided to go with the three stars though because from a historical standpoint, this is a great reference.
Charming and enlightening memoir reveals much about a life in "service" in England from one who lived that life for many years. Yes, his writing style is disorganized and rambling, but the stories were priceless. I had heard that the writers of Downton Abbey took note of some of the points for incorporation into the show and I could see that. Certainly sheds a more realistic light on the darker side of being a servant than the popular show reveals.
Marvelous stories of servanthood from the 1860s until 1922. Mr Horne tells of a time when servants worked very hard and were not honored by most of their employers. I felt like he was sitting talking with me about his life and work, trying to do it in an orderly way, but now and then throwing in an out of sequence account or a funny story. Very engaging.
I agree with other reviewers. It's an interesting read, but definitely not written by an author and quite colloquial. It feels more like a conversation with someone with ADD and a chip on their shoulder. :) It's not all negative, but there is a definite underlying feeling of resentment, which is just so telling.
The author claims to have excelled at school. That may be, but perhaps not in writing and spelling skills.The book starts with irrelevant childhood memories and proceeds to many largely uninteresting anecdotes about his life in service. I have to admit that I speed-red the second half of the book.
Given my love of Downton Abbey, I thought this would be a fun distraction while waiting for season three. I found it interesting and entertaining, although a bit difficult to follow at times. Consider this was written by an actual butler from the early 1900s, I was impressed. He definitely had many tales to tell, and I wish there was more.
poorly written rant by an ex-Cockney butler who dislikes that new rich after WWI but never really gives any insight in what he winked at - rambling and extremely boring - could not finish and I tried
Although the language in this book is dated and it can be a bit tough to get through at some times, I thoroughly enjoyed this story. It was interesting to read of the "everyday" person, of which there are not many stories as it seems often only the stories of the famous survive.
Charming book. Quick read. Interesting assessment of the lives of a servant during 19th and early 20th century Britain. Good choice for Dowton Abbey fans!
Very boring.
Memior
Very old fashioned in its style, but a ok read.
