https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/293595.Chicka_Chicka_Boom_Boom
* * * Sung & reviewed by my niece and I * * *Chicka Chicka Boom Boom is an alphabet learning book and waaay below my 6-year-old niece's reading level, but we enjoyed the heck out of it anyway!Letters A through Z climb up a coconut tree.
Eventually they fall with a boom, only to begin all over again.The rhyme scheme in this book makes it excellent for singing.
Plus, the words "chicka chicka boom boom" punctuate some of the pages, making for a great chorus.
So, I sang the book and my niece provided an energetic series of CHICKA CHICKA BOOM BOOMS!!!
Quick and fun read with the kids!
Chicka Chicka Boom Boom is a story about the alphabet letters climbing a coconut tree.
The lower-case letters climb up the tree, but the tree bends and the letters fall out.
Each of the lower-case letters gets hurt during the fall from the tree and the book describes each letter’s injury.
Chicka Chicka Boom Boom is an alphabet picture book because the story is told through the use of bright pictures and text.
The use of these literary devices and bright and fun illustrations makes this book a great text to use for teaching the alphabet to kindergartners, first graders, and second graders.
25/25 Q's @MRS.MORGANThis book puts Shakespeare and Hamilton to shame. A children's book, yet studied by Harvard and Yale scholars. Albert Einstein and Bill Nye the Science Guy were read Chicka Chicka Boom Boom as children. Upon dissection of a child's brain, they found that this book had increased the size of their frontal lobe by 500%. In fact, to be accepted to Harvard, one must write a 30-page essay about the significance of Chicka Chicka Boom Boom. It is said, that students who read this book once a day, will pass all AP exams they take in their life.
I love this one. I read it to Gabe for the first time today and I can tell he's going to love it too. He was enthralled by the rhythm.
Although I see this on many children's lists, and it was in the "Kindergarten box" I borrowed from the library (A whole box you can check out that are picked out a head of time based on a theme, letters, numbers, shapes, etc.), but my kids found it "okay". I'm wondering if maybe it just didn't hold their attention long enough for them to understand the story. It' is a cute concept with nice illustrations, just not one of our favorites.
We read this often. It makes Emily smile. :)
Chicka Chicka Boom Boom is one that I remembered reading as a kid but before I re read it I couldn't remember what it was about. It was a fun tongue twisting rhyming book that I'm sure any kid would enjoy reading/listening to. The colorful pages and big print make it easy and entertaining to read as well.
Brilliant colors fill each polka-dot bordered page as the alphabet begins its adventurous journey to the top of a coconut tree.
Originally published in 1989 this alphabet book has appealed to generations of youngsters and shows no signs of slowing down.
Now, the latest edition gives an entirely new generation of children the opportunity to learn as they play beginning with "A told B, and B told C, `I'll meet you at the top of the coconut tree.''What a festive way to learn ABC's all the way through to “Last to come X Y Z.
And the sun goes down on the coconut tree...”Enjoy!
This was such a fun little book to read this week. I absolutely adore this story and the illustrations that go along with it. My mom used to read this book to me as a little girl and we even had "Hoover family dance moves" that correlated with the "chicka chicka" portions. Overall this story is an exciting and fun free read for children. Definitely geared towards a younger audience, but I think it should be read by or too children as they grow up.
I enjoyed this book as a kid. It teachings basic counting principles and now has a song to go with it. A good way to teach kids basic counting skills.
One of my favorite books when I was younger :D
The book CHIKA CHIKA BOOM BOOM by Bill Martin Jr. is a story about the little letters of the alpabet who want to beat eachother to the top of the coconut tree. Will anyone win or will they get hurt trying to get to the top? If you read the book you will know. I liked the colors in this book and it was funny. Whoever likes silly storys should read this book.
Very entertaining alphabet book with lots of word play. Effective use of text refrains and the whole alphabet is repeated for reinforcement. Bold, blocky illustrations use lots of vibrant swaths of tropical color.
4 STARS...A cute and refreshing read.  Chicka Chicka Boom Boom  is reminiscent of the early books of Dr. Seuss. The rhymes are fun and easy, but then you throw in the tongue twisters. By the time you get to the end, your tongue is tied but a young reader has been captured and tries to give you a run for your money.
A fun alphabet rhyme when one get's tired of the classic ABC song.The colors and the artwork are superb in this fun alphabet book.
"A told B, and B told C, 'I'll meet you at the top of the coconut tree.'" "Whee!" asid D to EFG, "Ill beat you to the top of the coconut tree." The race is on and the big question is "Chica chica boom boom, will there be enough room?" What a grand way to start a wintry day.
It just gives a few lines from the book with no evaluation except a grand way to start a wintry day.
That is a rather, for want of a better word, dumb way review a book.
Amazon rated this book as one of  the top 100 influential books for Children  and after checking it out from the library I have to agree that this book should be read to children of all ages. You get to learn about the alphabet and at the same time find an enchanting story to entertain kids and yourself.The story is about how the alphabets in alphabetical order start to climb this coconut tree and everything seems perfect at first but then later on the tree cannot handle all those letters and CH
You get to learn about the alphabet and at the same time find an enchanting story to entertain kids and yourself.The story is about how the alphabets in alphabetical order start to climb this coconut tree and everything seems perfect at first but then later on the tree cannot handle all those letters and CHICKA CHICKA BOOM BOOM!
I had no clue what I was getting myself into when reading this book and yet I found Chicka Chicka Boom Boom to be a book that resonates for all ages.
It is an alphabet book, very easy to read, with colorful pictures, so I would classify it as a picture book.The story of this book is the letters of the alphabet meeting at the top of the coconut tree as you run through the alphabet, wondering if there will be enough room for all the letters to fit.If I was a K teacher I would definitely incorporate this into the beginning of the year where students could make their own alphabet book once they have learned to write each of the letters, or even an ongoing book project where each letter is added through the first 26 days.
All six of my kids either really love or have loved this book.
Our kindergarten and preschool always include it in their curriculum.
I like it because the lowercase letters are the focal point of the story, and yet the capital letters are all included as well.
I'd always recommend a book focusing on the capital letters for that.
But once a child knows at least most of the capital letters, this book is a great way to introduce the lowercase ones.
:-) Kids love the tree getting overloaded with letters, and I've seen some teachers with manipulative materials that reinforce the story.
This book was colorful which alone was appealing for me but also the "chicka, chicka , boom boom!" rhyme was very catchy and my five year old and two year old sons were having fun repeating it hours after I had read it to them.
The book delivers a fun story and lesson on the letters of the alphabet and recognition.
This book would be a must have for any classroom for early childhood educators.
extension- have some magnetic letters and either draw a coconut tree or have one put up with magnets and have each child add the letter to the coconut tree going in order of the alphabet to see if they remember what comes next.
Cute!Online storytime: http://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=...Definitely ruined in the storybook treastury form The 20th Century Children's Book Treasury, but worth it completely on it's on. Reprinted and/or excerpt included in The 20th-Century Children's Book Treasury: Picture Books and Stories to Read Aloud.
Chicka Chicka Boom Boom is an amazing children's book. This is a rhyming, mystery, alphabet recognizing, and a sing along all in one. When I read this book to my niece's and nephew's they loved it they would chant Chicka Chicka Boom Boom will there be enough room as they anticipated on seeing what was going to happen next. This is a wonderful book to read to children for amusement as well as learning alphabet recognition and to introduce rhyming.
This is a fun to read alphabet book that was one of Matt's favorites when he was tiny.
BEST BOOK EVER! It is about the alphabet's adventures!
I try not to rate or add the books I have read for my son.
It's so much fun to read!
When I tell him to go pick out a book to read and he comes out with any other book but this one, my heart sinks a little.
It made learning his letters fun!
He liked me to read this one over and over again.
We finally go to a point to where he knew all the letters and could help read the story.
I appreciate this book and how it made learning fun!
My son LOVES to learn his letters and I like to think this had something to do with it!
I remember reading this book in Ms. Murphy class.
This was a very fun book about the alphabet rhyme.
It had a very repetitive chorus for the children to enjoy saying aloud as you read to them.
This book repeats the whole alphabet twice and it makes it really fun with the children when you say the sounds of each alphabet.This book could be used in the following categorizes counting, rhyming, and learning the alphabet.LEARNING EXPERIENCE:When reading this book, explain to you children that when you her the letter and the sound if your name begs with that letter stand up and jump up and down.
He absolutely LOVES letters.
This board book is very colorful and easy to read.
I really enjoy that the letters in the story text are all in bold.
It made it very easy for my nephew to find the letter and "read" along.I would have liked the printed text to be a bit bigger so he could follow along better in general.
But the illustrated letters are all clear and easy to find.
We ended by opening to a page and playing "hide and seek" with the letters.
Dude nailed them.I recommend this book to any young children interested in letters and beginning reading.
Summary: The letters of the alphabet race to find room on top of a coconut tree.  I absolutely loved this book. I found the illustrations to be wonderful and a great way to grasp the attention of young children. The book repeats certain phrases which is also great for a young audience because they can read along. I would use this book with a group of pre-schoolers to work on letter recognition.
This is one of my most memorable children's books. It's a fantastic way for children to learn their ABC's in a fun, easy manner. The rhyming aspect of the book makes the book entertaining not only for children but also the adults reading the book. Also the illustration of the book may be simple but it gets the job done it allows the child to focus on the words and get into the song of the ABC's.
One of my favourite children's books. The kids I work with just love it. I find it's best accompanied with the CD that has the song to go with it, it's a lot of fun. Bright colourful pictures with nice big bold letters. Great way to learn your A,B,C's.:0)This is one of those books that the children have me read over and over again.
