https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9589.Hocus_Pocus
None of that with Vonnegut, who writes about the Vietnam War like no one else: with the courage to mix in futuristic and antiquarian events, all fictional but lifelike, as well as merging composite psyches with individual personal histories.
He has a beating heart, and it beats louder and faster, with a warlike violence and even more often with a human tenderness, as Vonnegut attempts to externalize all of his thoughts on this most miserable stage in American history.He writes about politics, & sex, & human ties.
Instead he put together a beautiful satire of just about every aspect of American life, from the idiocy of Vietnam, the treatment of the 'vets when they got home, the sale of just about everything to the Japanese and the inbred insularity of the majority of Americans.But not all Americans are equal, and the difference between those with money and those without is a constant theme and despite quoting Orwell's opinion that 'Rich people are just poor people with money' there is an 'apartedness' that sees rich Americans believe themselves to be a different species, with the incisive narrator in the form of Hartke wearily pointing a leary finger at them.All of this before what was surely at the front of Vonnegut's mind when he sat down to write Hocus Pocus, the imminent death of the planet through his country's disregard of the environmental impact of 'The American Way (tm)'.
Well there was a lot that went on in Vietnam that would come back again and again to Eugene, there was a friend, and eventual brother-in-law, that 'laughed like hell' at just about everything - perhaps he was 'not quite right' or perhaps he was wiser than the rest of us, seeing just how ridiculous we all are, it all is.
I would say the main theme which is a staple of Vonnegut's might very well be the utter ludicrousness of humanity in general.
“The 2 prime movers in the Universe are Time and Luck.”“Hocus Pocus” is one of those Vonnegut novels that works from time to time.
And it was easy going from then on.Vonnegut reveals the story in this text piece by piece in scraps of memory revealed by the narrator.
This revealing gaps of the plot piece by piece is a common device, but Vonnegut employs it really well in this book.
It comes across as effortless, and not at all contrived.“Hocus Pocus” is the life story of the narrator Eugene Debs Hartke.
While some see Vonnegut as satire, and others seem him as endlessly and hopelessly depressing, I see him in a role similar to that of the main character of this book: a Preacher; a Professor.And the lessons Vonnegut has to teach us range all over society and politics, from scathing denunciations of war (particularly Vietnam, "about nothing but the ammunition business") and our treatment of returning soldiers, through the unethical and greedy action of the rich in the stock market (in the book's 2001, most of America is owned by the Japanese and many of the "ruling class" have lost their fortunes in a stock market scam that would have floored Bernie Madoff), to the state of our prisons (once again race segregated) and the utterly impossible divide between the haves and the have nots.
I love Vonnegut, but this one felt a little forced and was largely forgettable. Forced in the way that it felt like another one of his phrases (like "so it goes") was being churned out and forgettable because I can't even remember that phrase. Still, not terrible, just one of his weaker novels.
"The truth can be very funny in an awful way, especially as it relates to greed and hypocrisy."- Kurt Vonnegut, Hocus PocusHaving read Timequake prior to reading Hocus Pocus (these are his last two novels), I was glad I reveresed the order.
I prefer my KV unplugged a bit more.A couple of my favorite Vonnegut quotes from this novel:--"The truth can be very funny in an awful way, especially as it relates to greed and hypocrisy."--"Another flaw in the human character is that everybody wants to build and nobody wants to do maintenance."--"[M]an was the weather now.
It's not a story for everyone, because nothing in this story is sacred.
The non-linear narrative seems at first to jump from time to place at random, but in actuality leads the reader in smaller and smaller concentric circles until at last all the questions have been answered, the holes have been filled, the story has been told, and we've arrived back where we started.
It's a testament to Vonnegut's tremendous talent that that's the question he provokes and leaves unanswered: Is anyone in the right or wrong or are we all just human and therefore, intrinsically, both?
2ND TIME READING: Vonnegut is just amazing.
What we have here is an inciting incident, an incident around which everything else in this book pivots, and instead of focusing on that, we examine the two dozen satellites that are trapped in it’s orbit.
In doing that, this book explores and satirizes and subverts so many disparate yet somehow related things (the prison system, higher education, neo-McCarthyism, family, Vietnam, etc) that it’s hard to know which direction is up.
But Vonnegut tells stories like a shotgun fires bullets.
As such, I enjoyed this reread more than I did when I read it the first time.
It lacks a sense of resolution...perhaps that's what Vonnegut intended.
It probably is.But even so, Vonnegut retained his gifts as a writer.
So although I found myself frequently feeling a little depressed by this book, I also couldn't stop reading it - and I'll eventually read it again.One thing that's almost shocking is the accuracy of Vonnegut's "future" (2001) America.
The seeds of all these trends were not only planted but sprouting back in 1990 when Vonnegut wrote this, but even so he paints a pitiless and frighteningly accurate picture.It's nice to see a few of his old favorite characters in the book; it gives a feeling of continuity.
Отбелязвам 3 звезди само, защото не мога да се пречупя и да дам 2 на нещо, писано от Вонегът. По никакъв начин не избирайте "Фокус-бокус" за първи досег с него.Това е книга само за хардкор Вонегът фенове и дори ние скърцаме със зъби докато я четем.
Încă mă uimește capacitatea lui Kurt Vonnegut de a aborda un subiect oarecum banal și a-l transforma într-o capodopera… Dacă  Abatorul Cinci  demonta cu abilitate și ironie mitul războiului onorabil,  Hocus Pocus  e incredibil de vastă din punct de vedere al temelor abordate – discriminare, rasism, război, schimbări climatice, întregul sistem politic și educațional american este pus sub lupă; mă străduiesc și acum să înțeleg cum o carte atât de mică poate acoperi o întreagă realitate… Îmbinând
e incredibil de vastă din punct de vedere al temelor abordate – discriminare, rasism, război, schimbări climatice, întregul sistem politic și educațional american este pus sub lupă; mă străduiesc și acum să înțeleg cum o carte atât de mică poate acoperi o întreagă realitate… Îmbinând cu măiestrie cea mai amară ironie cu tragicul întregii civilizații umane, cartea lui Vonnegut e GENIALĂ, îți taie răsuflarea și te lasă meditând la inutilitatea agitației cotidiene, la lipsa de sens și fragilitatea vieții umane.
It would be difficult to overstate how formative  Cat's Cradle was for me.
I got a major kick out of  Slaughterhouse Five.But this book was missing everything that made those great.
I can see why someone would want to write this book.
I'm not sure why anyone would want to read it.
(Which is almost tragically disappointing from the man whose first rule for fiction was "Use the time of a total stranger in such a way that he or she will not feel the time was wasted.")If you're thinking of picking this up, just go read Cat's Cradle for a second time.
A boy named Bruce Bergeron picks the time he was six and got stuck with his Haitian nanny in an elevator at Bloomingdale's.
Eugene Hartke asks him, "You know what you have described to perfection?" "No," he said.I said, "What it was like to come home from the Vietnam War."Unfortunately there were no other moments in the novel that matched this, amid all the quirky adultery and quirky murder and quirky obesity and quirky hereditary insanity and the prison breakout and the college president crucified on a cross.
Kurt Vonnegut is a master of cynicism and being able to open one's eyes to the often times ridiculous world around us.This story is an intricate weaving of sections that are as variable in length as they are in subject matter.
And yet, with the expertise of a skilled writer, Vonnegut easily melts the subjects into a fantastic collaboration of stories that becomes literally seamless if read in a short amount of time.
The narration has to be what it is because of the witty satire that is spewed out at every turn of the page.
Literally, in every chopped up section of the novel, there is satire to be had.
My favorite of Vonnegut's lesser known works.
Has the same wit exemplified in Cat's Cradle and Breakfast of Champions.
Vonnegut has always been a master at seamlessly amalgamating fiction and autobiography and this novel is no exception (though it's done less conspicuously than in, say, "Timequake.") The book is also startling prophetic.
Noticeably absent from Hocus Pocus is most of the fantastical science fiction elements characteristic to almost all of his other novels, so if you want to get a sense of Vonnegut but have no interest in sci-fi/fantasy this is the book to do it with.
“Just because you can read, write and do a little math, doesn't mean that you're entitled to conquer the universe.” ― Kurt Vonnegut, ‘Hocus Pocus’Told from the point of view of Eugene Debs, professor at Tarkenton college/Vietnam War vet/prison warden /outsider philosopher. ‘Hocus Pocus’ is an often funny, broad and wide-ranging commentary on race, class, war and its aftermath, nationalism and provincialism, economics and education, ignorance and enlightenment. Always quotable, Vonnegut packs a lifetime’s-worth of ideas into every novel. This one made my head spin - loved it!
"How embarrassing to be human." Dark social satire set in martial-law America where prisons are "color-coded" and the Japanese own nearly everything. Basic takeaway: humans are still stupid and ruining the planet. History repeats itself. Bleak, but funny. Plus, there's a brief Kilgore Trout appearance.
At another level, the story is juxtaposing various dispossessed groups of people and their "educational" systems: the military (Vietnam veterans), college (in this case for people with learning disabilities), prison.
Perhaps the continuous motion machines that are exhibited in the library are the key metaphor for human existence--each of us is something ingeniously crafted and unique that wants to be continuous, to live forever, but none of us as a single entity succeed, we all die.
Continuous motion of life comes from interactions, from education, from the passing on of history to each new history.
There's something utterly terrible in finishing a book that made you feel like your whole being (as never before) was acknowledged as beautiful while you read it.
A ache in your heart...a yearning for the love affair that you've just had with this author (reaching for him in your quiet times and not being rejected but Validated) is over.
But to know that you are for now and for ever in love with him.
God, what an amazing man.I don't know if its more horrible to have finished it or to recommend it.
վոնեգուտից «կապտամորուսն» էի կարդացել միայն ու ահա «Հոկուս պոկուսը» ավարտեցի։ ի՜նչ ցնցող գործ է։ կապ
Terminé el libro con un suspiro enorme, cerré la última página y mi ojo derecho lucía así:* * * Etcétera.¿Por donde empezar?¡Pues por Kurt Vonnegut!Este es el noveno o décimo libro que leo de él, ya me van quedando pocas balas.
"Hocus Pocus" está entre sus novelas menos conocidas, y sin embargo en mi opinión personal está a la altura de sus obras cumbres.
Vonnegut no pierde la oportunidad de evidenciar sus posturas con respecto a la humanidad con su típico humor negro y sus ya famosas coletillas.

Vonnegut....no one can capture the ironic humor that comes from an otherwise tragic situation quite like Vonnegut.In this book, our protagonist is on his deathbed, and reviewing his life, which was really just a series of unfortunate events...and in the words of one character.."I had to laugh like hell"By the end of the book, the concept of having to laugh at the irony that is life just shone through like a beacon. this is something I can definitely appreciate!
Like Vonnegut, I share a deep admiration for Eugene Victor Debs. Like Vonnegut, I probably idolize the man. The contrast between Hartke, the protagonist, and Debs, his namesake, is significant and Hartke knows it.
"Nonostante i nostri enormi cervelli e le nostre biblioteche gremite di libri, noi alberghi-per-germi non possiamo pretendere di capire tutto, assolutamente tutto." (pp. 176, 177)
However, I know quite a few people that wouldn't be able to get through two chapters of this.Hocus Pocus doesn't have much of a traditional plot; if anything, it's more of a character study of Hartke, the main character in the novel.
Vonnegut tackles a lot of issues in this novel -- environmental concerns that are eerily accurate for a book written in 1990, the effects that war has on a person and a nation, bureaucratic power games, etc.
Hartke came alive for me because of Ralph's narration, and I'm sure I wouldn't have enjoyed Hocus Pocus as much had I not listened to this audiobook.Also posted on Purple People Readers.
I loved this book, so much, and after finishing it I had to laugh like hell because I couldn't think of a single concrete thing to say about it in here.The word 'sonder' (the realization that each passerby, in this tiny world of ours, has a life as vivid and complex as your own) comes to mind.
It's full of that magical thing that makes Vonnegut's books work, it's a huge jumble of words of exactly that.
This incredibly witty funny clever book is a satire about a man scarred by Vietnam war, the decline of american culture and values, the manic consumerism, selling out, higher education and racial politics and other incredibly serious topics. Written back in 1990, it is a bit dated, but at the same time unsettling vision of the future. I would definitely recommend this one.
My favorite Kurt Vonnegut read thus far. I can relate to Eugene Debbs totally. I love the way the story hops around. It echoes my mind. One of the few reads that has prompted me to laugh out loud. Kurt Vonnegut's voice bites and amuses. Brilliant. Thankfully I have more of his books to savor.
