https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1307.Fire_Sea
Fire Sea is the third and darkest installment in the series, and thebest so far.
A few more revelations are revealed about the Sartans, therace who had sundered these worlds, but of course I can't tell you thosewithout spoiling the story.Suffice it to say, if you liked the first two of the series, you're really going to like this one.There is more development to Haplo's and Alfred's characters, as they are once again thrown together and are forced to put aside ancient hatred (well, Haplo anyways) to get out of another mess alive.
I love their plot developments, and I'm getting quite attached to these characters.Great series, and I'll be right back into it for the fourth world aftera few more books.
It's probably my favorite volume.It was a pleasure to come back again to Abarrach, the deathly world of stone.
This volume was far more well paced than the previous one, as the discovery of the world was challenging for all the characters.
The book gave some satisfying answers about what happened to the Sartans and a new form of magic was introduced, rising interesting questions and leading to difficult decisions.
A good volume for Haplo who continues to grow in a very interesting way (plus, the dog).
Still a pleasure to re-read it and I didn't need to skip boring parts because Abarrach let few places for them.
After a veryyyyy long time the book is done, but now I'm back into reading once again :)The book tells the story of Abarrach, the world of stone.
This book has a grim atmosphere as the unfortunate events of Sartan history unfolds, and weis and hickman did a good job delivering it.
Alfred and Haplo are the main characters and they make a very interesting "team" together.
There’re some supporting characters, but they are not as good as those in the former book.
All in all, it’s a good book, and I enjoyed reading it (even though the last quarter lasted forever).4.25/5
Het derde deel in de poort des doods serie en deze keer is het verhaal grimmiger dan ooit.
Haplo (mijn favoriete personage) en Alfred (de klungelige Sartaan) worden gedwongen om samen te werken om de wereld van Abbarach te overleven.
De interactie tussen Haplo en Alfred, twee aartsvijanden, maakt het verhaal zo interessant.
Helaas mistte ik de mensen, dwergen en elven wel, dat gaf altijd wat extra dimensie aan de wereld.Ik kijk zeker uit naar deel 4, waar de laatste van de 4 werelden aan bod komt.
With the third book in the series, things are definitely starting to ramp up, and more secrets are being revealed.
This book definitely picked things up several notches higher than the second volume.
As this book wraps up, it definitely makes you want to immediately pick up and start book four.One thing that stands out to me is that this is an incredibly creative series.
Not only that, but the slow revelation of the plot is well-planned out, and pulls you along in the attempt to discover more and more of the answers, and the unveiling of the mystery of these worlds.
In my review of Elven Star, I said that the interaction between Haplo and Alfred, Patryn and Sartan respectively and age-old arch enemies, are what makes this series sing.
Then he and Haplo discover to their horror that on Abarrach, world of Stone, alive is sort of a relative term.
That the Sartan here have warped their wonderous powers to a horrible end.The people we meet on this world are not like the other two.
in the background we have Haplo and Alfred sparking off of each other like two stones yet somehow forging a friendship in spite of themselves.
Here the story turns into an epic.Love this book still.
All this makes Fire Sea one of the best books in the series (having the best cover art doesn't hurt, either).This books begins to bring the series theme of balance into sharper focus, possibly explaining the disappearance of the Sartan and how reality is built out of a "wave of possibilities." Necromancy is balanced by a loss of life; the power of the Sartan is balanced by that of the Patryn.
I remember how the entire series ends up, but the details have escaped my memory after so many years...but I don't think I speak too soon in saying that this is probably the best book in the series.
Under the unforgiving core is an even more unforgiving Sartan population.
These Sartans, who are responsible for life, have turned to forbidden magic and instead rely on their dead to do menial tasks.
Weis and Hickman's greatest fault with this one was killing off the only likeable character relative early into the book.
They make up for it by providing us with Jonathan, a young necromancer, but the book is nearly over by this point.
The fact that everyone else in this book is an asshole doesn't help.
If this was the first book of the series I picked up, I wouldn't complete it.
For centuries now this source has been cooling, and the Sartan have used more and more terrible magics to keep the last few of their kind alive.The story that follows is a wild ride, throwing our anti-hero Happlo and the bumbling Alfred (who is unaware of his own powers) together (the common refrain of the series) in a last ditch effort to prevent the entire world from becoming a tomb, and looking for a way back out.I put this in the top 5 modern fantasy novels I've ever read, on par with Northern Lights/Golden Compass.
Magma, necromancy, magic, giant dragons, massive subterranean caverns, armies of the dead...
this book is pure awesome.
I picked it up not knowing it was the third in a series, but it didn't matter because the concept is easy to gather.
Humans, on evolving after desecrating planet Earth, split into factions of species with supernatural powers, and inhabited various planets distinguished by the four elements.
Each book in the series is set on a different planet (Fire Sea is set on a planet representing the Earth element), and if any of the other planets are as interesting as this one then this is going to be one of my favorite series ever!
Hard to put down ! I was fascinated by the world explored and all the questions about death and power. Plus the relationship between Haplo and Alfred is evolving and its so interesting to see old enemies getting to know and understand each other. Can't wai to read the next book!
Hard to put down ! I was fascinated by the world explored and all the questions about death and power. Plus the relationship between Haplo and Alfred is evolving and it´s so interesting to see old enemies getting to know and understand each other. Can't wai to read the next book!
Uno de los mejores libros de fantasía que he leído y, sin duda, el mejor dentro del Ciclo de la Puerta de la Muerte. Su ambiente lúgubre y asfixiante me pareció una pasada y las historias secundarias son bastante interesantes. Recomendadísimo!!!
Dynamic of this book is very good in addition to all the favorite monsters and thrilling adventure there is also moral dilemma between "good" and "bad" characters. "The road to hell is paved with good intentions"
Uno de mis más favoritos :,)
From story point of view, it's a fast paced one, yet it doesn't miss on essentials- the dialogues are touching and on point, the characters don't suck, the world building is appreciable though it wouldn't have been possible to do much in just one book nformation about the Sartans as well as Patryns and the world before the Sundering.
The suspense is kept up throughout the story and keeps building up which makes you want to read more and soon you want to find out what's the next step each character takes.The conversations are smartly done and focus more on developing understanding between the Sartan Alfred and Haplo.
Establishing understanding between them is one of the best aspects of the book.
(again I'm glad the series is finished, so I'm able to do this)Haplo is off through the Death Gate to the third world created by the Sartans, investigating for his Lord of the Nexus.
He unexpectedly is reunited with his Sartan enemy Alfred, in this world of living and dead.
The duo are thrown into a unique kinship as they must fight for their lives, in this dying world.
This episode starts to answer questions raised in the previous books about the Sartans and the Patryns, while developing the characters of Alfred and Haplo by changing, or at least questioning the beliefs instilled into them.
This one -I remember- is the best of the series, mainly for the setting.
Underground caverns, no light, a huge lava sea.And the undead.But, it suffers from the same things as the previous ones: cheaply written, young-adult, dei ex machina.Another thing I've noticed (but failed to mention until now) is that the authors keep repeating over and over things we already know, like Alfred managing to fall over the smallest crack in the floor of being a coward, fainting...
Actually, he's bested by the oldest trick in the book.Well, I was going to keep on finishing the saga, but 3 books in a row is already too much, so I'm taking a break.As I've said, it's good for kids.
After enjoying the first two parts of this 'cycle' I found Fire Sea to be dull, uninspiring and lacking the appeal of the others.
The setting this time is in a subterranean world and the oppressive backdrop gives little opportunities for Weis and Hickman to showcase their talents.
It just doesn't feel like a fantasy book, but has the aura of a supernatural short story.
I'm sure it's a required part of the ongoing story, and won't inhibit the desire to read the next chapter, but it seems padded, with little emotional impact.
My comments for the individual books follow:Vol. 1 -- Dragon Wing: This book covers the exploration of Arianus: the realm of Air. It introduces us to the two main characters (Haplo and Alfred) and many of the recurring characters throughout the series.
So, while reading the book, you constantly have this little voice in the back of your mind going "what's happening with Alfred?" Irritating.Vol. 6 -- Into the Labyrinth: This book ranges across just about all of the worlds of the Death Gate.
In Fire Sea, Haplo and Alfred use such a spell to replicate enough food for a large group of people.
Another great original fantasy story but I wanted to know what had happened with the other characters from the previous story, but had some great new characters some with dark motivations and some who just want to exist and the struggles that come with it. A good read with some interesting plot points but I'm not sure of the overall plot arc, but I think that it was due to the time gap between when I had read the first one and the second and this one.
On tape. Hrmmm...well, I did finish it, despite the comical voices of the narrator and the two-dimensional characters.It does add to the list of post-nuclear-apocalypse books I've now read. Makes me a bit hesitant to ever revisit the Dragonlance books (written by the same authors) that were so important to me in middle school.
Best installment of the series so far and also the darkest. Gone is the cheesy paperback romance aspect of the previous novels, as we delve further into Alfred and Haplo’s characters and into the depths of the evil good intentions can bring. Suspenseful and with the excellent world building and magic system I’ve come to expect from the Death Gate Cycle. A good read!
Ugh. I love dystopian stories and I love zombies. But this book was so dull... I guess that maybe it just didn't age well. I give the last chance to this series ti redeem itself as I read the 4th volume but I don't think it'll be entertaining...
This is definitely the best book so far. It's darker and has more depth than the other two, while advancing the overarching story in an interesting way. One thing I like about these books is that each story is self-contained while still being a part of the whole. There are no annoying cliffhangers.
Increíblementemente vine a leer esta saga con muchas dudas y la expectativa super baja y me ha callado la boca. Me encantó esta tercer entrega, llore, me enoje, me frustre, en fin. Vamos por el cuarto.
Maybe even better than Dragon Wing, the first book. Loved that Haplo and Alfred are reunited. And the premise and plot is so terrifying and engaging. Curious to see what future befalls Abberach.
Best of the series so far. 💗
Not my favorite, I just couldn't stay ingested in the storyline.
Favorite of the series.Great book
