https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46064.The_Diary_of_Ana_s_Nin_Vol_1
Definitely nothing like any diary I’ve ever read or written.
For the most part I’d say nothing truly remarkable happens in the diary; yet Nin is the kind of person who could turn a normal, everyday event into something magical and profound.
Reading her diary definitely caused me to be reflective.
The most interesting part of the book for me was Nin’s fascinatingly-weird relationship with Henry and June Miller.
It can be an active alchemy.”   Links to my other Nin diary reviews  Volume 2: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Volume 3: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Volume 4: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Volume 6: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1...
A real woman, who lead a free life.
And certainly, there are legitimate reasons to dislike her (her appetite for such words as "ensorcellment" and "elixers" being among them) but the elite fashion of loathing her has more to do with the age-old resentment accorded to unapologetic women––and a residual American Puritanism masquerading as refinement––than with the real human and linguistic value of her impassioned, fraught, obfuscated, and well-laid life in words.
Possibly because men more want to rape than they want to believe that a free woman could go Electra at least in part for the sake of the story.Those of us who have fled the academy shrieking and nearly ruined, never to return, are in best position to immolate its assiduous blowhards.
I ordered 11 more of your works online (used) and am compiling a library that will contain everything you've ever written, and then expand to include the books of authors you mention reading in your diary and/or befriended in life.
There is not one big cosmic meaning for all, there is only the meaning we each give to our life, and individual meaning, an individual plot, like an individual novel, a book for each person.""It seemed that by living by my feelings and impulses I was happier.""Men think they live and die for ideas.
I have always believed in Andre Breton’s freedom, to write as one thinks, in the order and disorder in which one feels and thinks, to follow sensations and absurd correlations of events and images, to trust to the new realms they lead one into. I have always believed in a writer’s choice to write about the mundane affairs of life, and by so doing, turn it inward out, so that the reader sees the world through her mirror. After all, the greatest tool available to a biographer, are the letters of
What is the "so what," the literati asks: nonfiction is supposed to have an indication of what makes it different, a story.
H. Lawrence out of gratitude, because it was he who awakened me.” Sure, I read her diary wishing I had less of Henry (her self-consumed friend), but when she bid me enter her world in the beginning, I couldn’t help but follow and towards the end, when she bared her soul in that dark and doomed birthing room, it was frightening and compelling enough to keep me wanting to read more of this person who makes life lucid through articulate prose.
I feel kind of cheated.
I'm fascinated with Nin's writing and ideas.
I'm interested in her work.
I can forgive the solipsism of the diary, since it is, after all, a diary.
But I read this collection of writing feeling like I was getting only half the story.
Not only does it make for jarring reading (you find yourself reading a gutwrenching miscarriage story when you have no idea about the circumstances of her pregnancy), but it made me feel like I was ultimately being misled about the details of her life.
If I'm reading something as intimate as a diary, I'd like the whole story, please.
I will never think about journaling the same way again.Spring day: Walking home from the market with the weeks's greens tucked in my canvas bag I stopped by a yard sale.
There were several boxes of old books, 50 cents each.
I fought and clawed my way through the boxes with others and pulled out Ntozake Shange, Pynchon, Checkov and this book.
It is ugly with age but it is a book that has been well loved.
The woman in a pink t-shirt, a baggy black shorts, tevas, wants to know which books I am purchasing...she parts with old friends and I leave with new ones.Note to self: Read Henry and June soon rather than later.
This was my introduction to the work of Anais Nin--the very first volume that fell into my adolescent hands.
Anais, with her house in the suburbs of Paris in which every room was painted a different color, and she lived with her husband, and met a man named Henry Miller.
In which she investigated the possibility of being a woman writer, of writing things that she knew as a woman, a voice which she had not yet seen in print, completely subjective, Piscean, mutable, veiled.
the unexpurgated diaries have also been printed now, but I have not yet returned to them--because the self censoring of these diaries was part of their art, their veiled magic.
I used to sit in coffee shops with my friends while living in Berkeley in the 70s. I often brought this book along with me to read as I found her journal writing and her life fascinating. I got as far as finishing volume 2 before finally becoming bored.
I had to stop reading this book, though i did thoroughly enjoy Nin's lengthy ruminations about life and its general contents. It was not helping me take the giant leap of faith necessary to live my artist life. The woman never had to have a job, all she did was roam around doing things she wanted to do all the time, then writing up beautiful philosophical commentary. Certainly not helpful in boosting my morale as I'm leaping off a cliff, living more like Henry.
"Eu sou uma pessoa excitável que só entende vida liricamente, musicalmente, em quem sentimentos são muito mais fortes que a razão. Eu estou tão sedenta para o maravilhoso que só o maravilhoso tem poder sobre mim. Qualquer coisa que eu não possa transformar em algo maravilhoso, eu deixo ir. Realidade não me impressiona. Eu só acredito em intoxicação, em êxtase, e quando vida ordinária me algemar, eu escapo, de uma maneira ou de outra. Nenhum muro mais."(Anais Nin)
It's her diary. It's all about her. Get over it.
man lies in the woman's womb only to gather strength, he nourishes himself from this fusion, and then he rises and goes into the world, into his work, into battle, into art.
when man lies in her womb, she is fulfilled, each act of love a taking of man within her, an act of birth and rebirth, of child rearing and man bearing.
the act of love between two women is not contingent on penetration but rather friction (in my experience ..) personally, i just can't bear the thought of deriving complete fulfillment by being filled by a man.
It is best to read this while sitting in Les Deux Magots in Paris, sipping coffee, and watching the world go by.
anais nin kept a journal for pretty much her entire life, ever since she emigrated to the united states originally when she was eleven years old.
i mean, i think most people who keep diaries touch on these issues, & it is interesting to read the later volumes & see how nin's thoughts on various issues changed as she grew up & shed some of her naivete.
she goes on a lot about how june is the ideal woman, which is interesting, because like twenty years later, she is very critical of her memories of june.
but whatever, i'm often critical of people i used to be friends with in my diaries.
ok i'm just going to list some quotes: "But this woman, who could undress at the request of any man, make love with anyone, go to orgies, act as a call girl in a professional house, this Beth told me she found it actually difficult to talk about sex!" "Far below a rather pale nature, a subdued tropical life, lay a scenery of dreams, a dream born out of continuity impossible to an artist."(...) A dream from which all violence was absent."Here lay a dream entombed.""The softer the velvet box, the deeper the rugs, the warmer the rooms, the greater the abundance of food, the more I miss what I have lost, the lonelier I feel."...I haven't read this in years.
THE DIARY OF ANAIS NIN: Vol. 1: 1931-1934  By Anaïs NinA Review By Nicole D'SettemiNo book has affected me in the way that this book has. Not a novel, but told more interestingly than most creative writing and fictional works I've read, this diary is the most compelling piece of literature I've ever read.Nin's language flows beautifully, her descriptions rich, her portraits of "characters," leaving one to always want to know just a little bit more! Her pages on Henry and June (and unexpurgated
Not a novel, but told more interestingly than most creative writing and fictional works I've read, this diary is the most compelling piece of literature I've ever read.Nin's language flows beautifully, her descriptions rich, her portraits of "characters," leaving one to always want to know just a little bit more!
It changed my ideologies, my philosophies, my way of life, my writing, and my entire view of the literature world.
Anaïs Nin has a passionate narration of her life.. and I do like her honesty.
"I became more woman."to speak in symbols, the language of dreams.
One of my favorites. Nin can write about a tired old piece of toast and make it beautiful. Seeing history through her lens IS magic.
I am Anaïs.
I have read this book several times. Each time I have come away changed, as if I had just experienced a rite of passage. It, therefore, holds a very special place in my heart.
Anais Nin was a sensitive writer who truly understood that all life is art. I am mezmerized my her descriptions and radical insights. I would have loved to have known her.
This woman fascinates me, in all her exotic beauty.
TBHOS BOOK REVIEWS A Review by Nicole S. AvilesThe Diary of Anais Nin: Volume 1 by Anais NinAnais Nin's first adult journal released in the 60's, is one of the most compelling pieces of literature devised in the last century. An intriguing book, highlighting the highs and lows, pathologies, insights, and everyday meanderings of a gifted and talented writer of the 30's; on, this book does NOT disappoint!This particular diary volume especially, is penned at a deep and profound level, and left an
They worked together to design memoirs, before memoirs were memoirs, and reinvented writing in a way that is still observed--and attempted by so many--today.This initial diary shares her experiences, including a quick but interesting affair and friendship with the leading male in "Joan of Arc"--Antonin Artaud, as well as her obsession with Miller AND his wife--the muse, June Miller, her psychotherapy sessions with HUGE names in the field of psychiatry such as Otto Rank (a Freudian disciple) and more.
She immensely talks about the self, and her search for the woman, Anais.
She writes, "I have always been tormented by the image of multiplicity of selves.
My first concept about people around me was that all of them were coordinated into a WHOLE, whereas I was made up of a multitude of selves, of fragments." I am mesmerized with her insights about the facets of woman penned with so much candor and passion.
She writes beautifully, elegantly and articulately.
Even the most tedious thing that happen in her life comes alive because of her mastery with words.
She is drunk with life.
Whenever I read her diary, it gives me such a feverish delusion that I could write like her, too.
That is why the writer is the loneliest man in the world; because he lives, fights, dies, is reborn always alone; all his roles are played behind a curtain.
To judge a writer it is necessary to have an equal love for writing as for the man.
*I am always between two worlds, always in conflict.
On certain evenings like this, I would like to feel whole.
Only a half of me is sitting by the fire, *How can I accept a limited definable self when I feel, in me, all possibilities?
*We get drunk with images, words, scenes, possibilities.
Anais Nin is absolutely the most fascinating woman I've ever come across.
She dazzles intellectuals, has affairs with poets, and becomes psychoanalyst's savior.
Nothing about her life was ordinary because she was determined to live, live, live in a big way.
And her diary is filled with so much truth.
Portraits of people stripped of idealism.
She describes life as though it is made of poetry and beauty, even its problems.
She was drunk on life and love.
I feel that I could have had a great love affair with her, as I am through her diaries.
Not because I don't like Nin's writing style or her perspective, but there seemed like there was just something a little off in the editing that jumped from one thing to another a little too much, or wouldn't fully explain what was going on. Anais Nin is still definitely on my to read list, but it was a bit difficult as a newbie to see how everything was going to come together. This was also part of a series of books on diaries, diary keeping, and actual diaries that I read, and was the most historical in that bunch.
Whether you have a poetic or an analytic heart, whether you are a writer or a wallflower, bisexual, straight, or a bit of everything, there’s something important to take from these journals. Anaïs is enchanting, not just as a writer.
Absolutely great, I love Anaïs, her personality, her view of the world, her constant struggle with her father. 4 stars only because I hated the parts dealing with psychoanalysis.
