https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/557100.The_Mystery_of_the_Vanishing_Treasure
A clever, atmospheric mystery that’s well worth a read, I loved it.2013 update - It’s hard to believe, as I write my review, that this book is almost 47 years old.
One of my all-time favourites, this has a nice sense of nostalgia (and is a little melancholic for that), great locations and some fantastic set pieces, especially the sequence in the old theatre, where Jupe and Pete are pursued by gnomes.
A clever, atmospheric mystery that’s well worth a read, I loved it.2013 update - It’s hard to believe, as I write my review, that this book is almost 47 years old.
The story stands up perfectly well - it has great pace, some brilliant ideas and the mystery is sound - and it’s a real shame that the books aren’t so easy to get hold of any more to introduce new generations to The Three Investigators.
One of my all-time favourites, this has a nice sense of nostalgia (and is a little melancholic for that), great locations and some fantastic set pieces, especially the sequence in the old theatre, where Jupe and Pete are pursued by gnomes.
Another good mystery! (Honestly, my nostalgia for these books will probably never let me give one a bad rating, but we'll see.)In this one we have an impossible museum robbery and a lady being plagued by gnomes. (Gnomes?!?!)As with all of the three investigators novels, another fun mystery read! Young readers are especially missing out if they haven't tried this series.
Das Buch hat mir überraschend gut gefallen. Ich fand es sehr spannend und mochte auch, dass die drei ein bisschen mehr Farbe und Charakter bekamen. Besonders Peters Überlegungen, ob er lieber ins Wasser geworfen werden will und dort sterben oder doch lieber als Sklave verkauft werden möchte. Diese schöne mampige-ängstliche Art mit einer Portion Ironie hat mir wirklich gefallen. Bisher mein Lieblingsbuch der ganz frühen, dabei war mir das Hörspiel nie so besonders positiv aufgefallen. Ich hab das Hörspiel danach angehört und fand das auch wesentlich kompakter und ein wenig verwirrender als das Buch.
Bangla version of this one actually is much better.
This series is a wonderful one for kids. The Hitchcock character only does what amounts to cameos, and sometimes, if I remember correctly, doesn't even show up at all. The ones about the Mexican bandit and the Spider stand out in my mind and I remember them quite well. Overall, they were all fun to read.
Amazing!
The Three Investigators is a juvenile detective series published in the 60s, 70s, and 80s that spans about 43 books.
They report their cases to Alfred Hitchcock or a fake director depending on which versions you read.
I discovered these books in the library during middle school and promptly read them all.
This book continues the trend of anytime the boys are working on multiple cases at the same time then they are always end up being related.
Also the trend of making friends with or helping another boy during the case.
It'll have you on the edge of your seat reading to find out what happens next.Jupe and Pete are in the most danger yet as they get captured by the criminals and come very close to either dying or getting sold into slavery.But lucky for them Bob and Hans come to their rescue in an exciting sequence in which they break some laws and even ram a gate to get to Pete and Jupe.Something I noticed in this book is one of the differences between Robert Arthur and the other writers.
Several of the previous cases are mentioned and the next book is for foreshadowed with the diving lessons.The other writers don't really do that.
I thought I'd start the new year off by reading a selection from one of my favorite juvenile series.
In this story, Jupiter Jones and gang solve not 1, but 2 mysteries.
The Investigators happen to witness the robbery of a precious belt from a local museum.
They offer their detective services, but are turned down because of their youth.
As usual, our precocious trio are able to wrap up both mysteries.
I rated the book a 3 because it is ok, but not one of the better books in the series.
dulu waktu smp-sma sering baca serial ini, pinjem di perpustakaan sekolah. setelah bertahun2 akhirnya coba untuk baca serial ini lagi. dibuku ini trio detektif berusaha memecahkan kasus pencurian di museum & kasus penampakan kurcaci di rumah seorang penulis buku dongeng anak. untuk yang kasus kurcaci sebenarnya udah ada gambaran siapa pelakunya tapi yang kasus pencurian bingung nggak tau siapa pelakunya, walaupun setelah di akhir jadi tau ternyata dari awal banyak petunjuk2 kecil yang mengarah ke pelaku tapi aku nggak ngeh sama sekali.
So…gnomes. I’m not sure I can find gnomes scary. They try valiantly, but I have consumed too many twee cartoons and D&D games. While I was happy that they at least pointed at Arthur Conan Doyle’s “The Red-Headed League” it didn’t make me appreciate the story more, as it became clear to me fairly early that this was the goal of the gnome plot. Good pacing, as this one clicks along, but this was not the strongest outing for the Three Investigators.
I remember taking these books out of library as a kid and loved them. They are hard to find but my collection is growing. They aren't very PC for the world we live in, but they were written for the times. Still a quick read and my love for the Three Investigators has not waned. Jupe, Pete and Bob, solve the case once again, all the while fighting off gnomes and bank robbers.
1,5 SterneAuch wenn ich die Jungs liebe, dieser Fall hat mir nicht gefallen...
A blast from the way, way past. My treat to myself for Hallowe’en, interrupting my other reads for a few days
good. they're all good.
A fun read. Clever hiding place for the stolen treasure that tricks everyone until the very end. Jupiter is definitely a drama queen in this book.
How are gnomes related to a robbery in a museum? Read to find out. Another excellent story of the three investigators
Entirely satisfying!
Kurcacinya sih ketebak, tp pending emasnya bener2 gak ada ide sama sekali. Hahaa... Ternyata kedua kasus tersebut saling berkaitan.
AH&T3I Update: 5 read, 23 hardbacks to go!Robert Arthur, the creator of the Three Investigators and the writer of the first 11 titles was a genius!
Ok, maybe he borrowed a little (and just a little) from the Sherlock Holmes' Red-Headed League short story, but he did not borrow enough to give away this plot or even the main story of this book.
For evidence of Mr. Arthur's genius, consider this quote from page 150 in the book:"'Well done, lads,' Mr. Hitchcock rumbled at last.
So you rid my friend Agatha of her gnomes, I see.
An awesome book and a terrific read for readers of ALL ages!
Now did I see a gnome out my window?
I tried reading a couple of Hardy Boy mysteries when I was young, but found them uninteresting in comparison.
Jupiter Jones, Pete Crenshaw, and Bob Andrews always had much more interesting cases to solve and they seemed more like real kids than the Hardy Boys.
It's not the high-profile case the boys would like but it sounds interesting.
Jupiter makes a few mistakes in this fifth book in the series but he always manages to figure everything out in the end.
And the stories are never condescending toward the adults in them, even though Jupiter usually outwits them in the end.
This is the fifth in what was called__when I was reading and collecting them__THE ALFRED HITCHCOCK MYSTERY SERIES.
After all, this isn__t the first__nor last__time the boys will encounter a treasure, and, as for vanishing .
. .Whereas the previous book in the series (The Mystery of the Green Ghost) might have used, in retrospect, some unfortunate stereotypes in its Chinese characters, this one employs a little more of the same in connection with its Japanese and __little people__ characters.
End deduction was a bit disappointing but beginning to middle was very good, engrossing, and exciting.

This kind of felt like a more grown-up McGurk mystery to me. Plenty of fun to read.
This one is my favorites so far. Trio Detectives solve not only one problem but two! How wide this cases for three teenagers is really surprise me. I fell in love with this story. The plot twist also ugghh I'm speechless. Jupiter's deduction skill really amazed me and if he was a real person, I'm happily will ask him how to make a good conclusion and take a peek what's on his reading list.
Dari trio detektif series yang pernah kubaca, untuk saat ini, petualangan inilah yang menjadi favoritku, terdapat 2 masalah yang pada awalnya sama sekali tidak terlihat berhubungan, ternyata sangat berhubungan. Pengalaman yang mendebarkan dan buku ini sangat keren
We actually own this in an omnibus: Alfred Hitchcock: Mystery of the Vanishing Treasure; Secret of Phantom Lake; Mystery of the Dancing Devil
Jadi ini sebenernya akan terasa lebih menarik seandainya saja tidak terjebak Spoiler di salah satu review yang ada di Goodreads ini. spoilernya berada di kalimat pertama, woooi.... Lah, kok jadi ngomel soal spoiler... Lol..
