https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/207743.The_Oxford_Book_of_English_Ghost_Stories
Beautiful collection. Contains ghost stories of a lot of good known writers, not only of the well known ghost story writers.
So far, these have included the rest of the Victorian/Edwardian group (except for the Henry James story, which I reserved for later --I'm not actually sure if I've read it before or not, but if so it didn't make a lasting or favorable impression) and selected later ones.
Most of the stories were at least good and enjoyable, and some especially stood out; others in the latter group include Le Fanu's "Squire Toby's Will," "The Empty House" by Blackwood (who's a writer I usually think is overrated, but this is one of his better works, an outstanding study of fear), Nesbit's "Man-Size in Marble," and Braddon's "The Shadow in the Corner." E.
This one had quite a few good stories in it. :)
I enjoyed 90% of these stories. Smee and On The Brighton Road I never tire of rereading.
Ok, confession: I read a majority of this book in the stacks while working at the library.
Don't judge me--if you had to shelf-read for hours on end, you would take the occasional break to.
But anyway, I loved the stories in this book.
They're the old-fashioned, downright creepy stories that are, unfortunately, seldom seen nowadays.
My favorites were The Monkey's Paw and this story about a creepy bird-like creature that I can't remember the title of (it was the simplest story yet I can't help but think about it whenever I'm in a empty house).
The English really do excel at writing ghost stories.
I can honestly say that I didn't regret reading one of these stories in this book.
There is just something about the English setting for a ghost story that resonates with me.
I also believe that the menace of what is unseen is much more impressive when the narrator of the story is a dignified sort not given to believe in such things.
Probably the scariest story in this book was by H.
The Judge's House by Bram Stoker (an Irish writer) is so intensely menacing that you will think about it for some time afterwards.
Great collection of ghost stories, some well known, some not.
This anthology, superbly edited and introduced by Michael Cox and R.A. Gilbert, is a great way to begin your library of supernatural fiction.
Almost every story is of high literary quality as well as great entertainment.
The anthology also shows how differently good writers can handle the stringent requirements of good supernatural tales.
Not every story will appeal to every reader, because there's such a wide range of styles.
But I think every reader will find many to savor time and again.
I love this book and have read it several times! I think my favorite story in this anthology is "The Empty House" but there are few that disappoint! A good spooky book!
There are some good tales in it- I've always loved "The Monkey's Paw" and read it to students at Halloween (The Simpsons did a nice "TreeHouse of Horror" episode with it), and I also enjoyed "The Upper Berth," "The Judge's House," "Man-Size in Marble," "The Red Room," and "The Lost Ghost," among others.
They also are a little repetitive - many haunted houses and rooms.
The tales are more mysterious than spooky, with lines like "It was a lonely house on a lonely road." The stories do involve "the beyond" but are tame in comparison to ghost/horror stories of today.
But it would be an interesting read for fans of Brit Lit and ghost tales.

The further in the book I went, the stories seemed to get longer and less entertaining, though there were an exceptional few.
Sadly, many of the other stories are skipable.
If you can find most of the listed stories in another compilation, go for it.
Now, don't get me wrong, I'm crazy about the stories I thought were good, but the collection as a whole was not so great overall.
3* = "I liked it"; It could have been a better collection than it was, but the good stories redeemed it.
I have nearly worn this copy out, which I have had for a couple of decades. Love the collection. Love to keep this, and several other short stories (with ghosts and scariness) by my bedside for some "light" reading.
Such an amazing, classic ghost story collection! I chipped away at it for years and am SO sad I have finally finished it! It was my favorite go-to busy book!
È come se ci si aspettasse che le storie di fantasmi fossero molto più di quello, o molto meno, o in generale qualcosa di diverso.La verità, secondo me, è che prima di leggere questo libro uno ha un'idea troppo evanescente di cosa sia, in effetti, una storia di fantasmi.
Ecco, Jacobs in questo racconto mette l'essenza del fantasma, secondo me, e il risultato è più terribile di quanto ci si immagini.
È la paura di allungare la mano verso una cosa che non si vede, ecco.
Il risultato è puramente raccapricciante.Il racconto di Jacobs è, secondo me, l'esempio più alto che uno possa aspettarsi.
This is a mostly enjoyable anthology of ghost stories by English authors or set in England.
Most of the major authors of ghost stories are represented, with a mix of well known (such as “Oh, Whistle and I’ll Come to You My Lad” by M.
W. Jacobs which is arguably not a ghost story and, because of its frequent appearance in anthologies, should have been excluded in favor of something more unusual or traditional) and less well known (for example “The Shadow in the Corner” by M.
These particular writers gave the book its' best stories, many of the others were just a bit to bland, and did not follow the normally accepted norm of mid 18TH century English Ghost genre, and ' Gothic " style haunting.
I have been a fan of these period ghost stories for many, many years and possess a rather handsome collection of major books on the subject.
It is my belief that the Irish Ghost stories written during this same period, or even a touch older, are more, how can I say this, frightening!
Maybe I've been reading too many classic ghost story/gothic horror collections over the past couple of years and I'm a bit burned out, but I found a lot of this stuff frankly hasn't aged particularly well.
Still, there were some stellar pieces in here that I'd never heard of before, including W.F. Harvey's short, genuinely spooky "The Clock," and Robert Aickman's ambiguous "The Cicerones," with it's mysterious, unforgettable final imagery; there are also plenty of always reliably re-readable greats like M.R. James's dryly frightening "Oh Whistle and I'll Come to You, My Lad," and Bram Stoker's sinister "The Judge's House" to offset snoozers like Henry James's "The Friends of the Friends" (sorry, but James's literary rep aside, I find his ghost stories ponderous, dull, and not scary in the least) and the tortured prose of Vernon Lee's "A Wicked Voice." Overall, a nice collection best recommended to folks newly exploring the genre, especially those with an interest in Victorian age gothic lit.
In an easy-to-use paperback edition, The Oxford Book of English Ghost Stories serves as a welcoming traveling companion when going just about anywhere, especially through the dingy streets and foggy countryside of England.
This is a collection that features stories that scared a lot of people when published, and continue to do so even now.
Infamous stories show their original creation here with tales like “The Monkey’s Paw” and “The Hollow Man.” A collection that anyone who enjoys having shivers sent up their spines must have.Originally published on December 9th, 2002.For over 500 book reviews, and over 40 exclusive author interviews (both audio and written), visit BookBanter.
These ghost stories like most of their type are not actually scary.
There are a number of interesting Stories however.
The Monkey's Paw is always good, and The last story which is by T.H. White is quite good.
There are many other good stories in here, and many not so good ones.
The first few stories are especially uninteresting.
The Charles Williams story in this book (which is likely why my wife picked it out for me) starts out really dull, but improves slightly by the end.
Perhaps it deserves a 3 but Perhaps I just dod not enjoy Ghost Stories as much as I once did.
There were a couple gems in here (one of which I'd read before.) Unfortunately, the style of these Victorian Era short fictions simply doesn't work for me. The imbedded "let me tell you the story that someone told me a story about" approach, the 80% setup for 10-20% story...it's interesting if you are studying the ghost story from a lit-class perspective, but not very thrilling for a reader. I probably should have re-read The Shining instead!
I'm not a fan of horror stories, but I do like old ghost stories. Most of these were very good stories, but the language of the last story "Soft Voices at Passenham" was absolutely delightful. Really excellent writing. It finally occured to me to look at the author and saw that it was T. H. White. Well, of course.
Modern horror and uncanny fiction is a multinational, multicultural affair, but it's hard to argue that the genre has strong and sturdy roots in Great Britain. This collections of stories is near essential, with M. R. James, E. F. Benson and dozens of other essential authors- plus a few unexpected oddities, such as "The Clock," which unsettled me greatly upon first reading.
Fun, though when you read so many ghost stories together like this, you realize how the basic plots show up over and over again. 1. Someone encounters an evil ghost and flees in horror. 2. Someone sees a loved one acting strange; realizes later that the loved one was ALREADY DEAD. Et cetera. But there are enough variations to make it enjoyable. Some are genuinely original and wonderfully creepy.
Edith Wharton's Mr Jones was the best in this collection. Other standout (or decent) stories: A.M. Burrage's Smee, E. Nesbit's Man-Size in Marble, Henry James's The Friends of the Friends, E.G. Swain's Bone to his Bone, Simon Raven's The Bottle of 1912.Ghost stories aren't really my thing. I enjoy the conventions of the gothic more.
Love ghost stories and fell in love with M.R.James when I was about 12 and read Oh whistle and I'll come to you my lad. Saw a recent television production of this with John Hurt and had to hide behind a cushion. I'm not in to gory horror, which is probably why I like the more classic ghost stories.
An excellent selection of ghost stories featured in chronological order from 1829-1981. It doesn't contain my two favorites The Signalman by Charles Dickens (strangely there are no Dickens stories here at all) and The Watcher by J. Sheridan Le Fanu. But I have those two in other collections, so who cares!Great for winter reading when there's a storm outside.
Really really enjoyed this book. I always love old ghost stories written by authors in the past century like M.R. James and Le Fanu. Some of the stories in this book will take a while before the shivers are caught up when you finally realize what's happening to the author.
A literate and well chosen selection of ghost stories, more focus on corporeal hauntings than purely psychological ones, which I generally prefer and many haunted house types, but overall a spooky and historically interesting collection.
This is a collection of classic ghost stories and most of them I've read before. Many of them are really old and the most recent dates from 1981,I enjoyed both the unfamiliar and the familiar ones and the introduction was interesting.A good book to dip into.
