https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/556661.News_From_Tartary
This report of his travel from Beijing across China and into India via Kashmir is a fantastic account of what it was like for a European to set out on a trip that very few people had accomplished before and that few adventurers have managed to describe to a Western readership since the days of Marco Polo.
Maillart also wrote an account of this trip in her book Forbidden Journey , but unlike Fleming her outlook on the trip and the content of her observations are quite different.When reading News from Tartary, I probably learned more about Fleming than about the people he meets and the countries he passes through.
I enjoyed Fleming's book To Peking: A Forgotten Journey from Moscow to Manchuria very much, and a commenter on that review suggested I read this one.
Fleming has a witty, dry voice that draws you in and makes even his accounts of the political situation in Asia in the 1930s interesting.
Sometimes the tea is mixed with a lump of rancid yak's butter, which frankly I thought Terry Pratchett made up.
Fleming's enthusiasm for hunting combines both his love of the hunt and his need for food that isn't sawdust-meal and yak butter.
I'm definitely interested in reading more of his journeys.
I therefore gave it 4.The problem was, I read an incredible 5 star book (Arabian Sands by Wilfred Thesiger) before News From Tartary and in light of that, News from Tartary paled in comparison.I never felt a personal connection with this book, the people profiled within it, including the author, or the environment they travelled through.
Wilfred Thesiger showed me in his book, Arabian Sands, that being of this era doesn't have to mean hunting for pleasure and that you can do things for yourself and that you can incorporate other cultures into your routine and life while you travel - as opposed to simply observing them from the saddle of your horse or the door of your tent.Robert Fleming showed me nothing that even came close to this in News From Tartary.
First read circa 1982, this remains one of my absolute all-time favorites -- I reread it every few years, and always keep a dictionary handy. No one writes with the elegance and bone dry humor of the late 19th/early 20th century British explorers. My very first nominee for the title "Best. Book. Ever."
For those who aren’t aware, Forbidden Journey, by Ella Maillart and News From Tartary by Peter Fleming both describe the same journey, at the same time, taken together.
We enjoyed it very much.”Both these books were written in a fairy humble, self-deprecating way, something I hadn’t expected from Fleming in particular.
I had found his One's Company: A Journey to China in 1933 written quite pretentiously, and I hadn’t enjoyed it much at all.
To say that the journey of Maillart and Fleming was an inspiration for dozens of other intrepid travellers is no exaggeration.Great books.
Travelling Asia at Asia's pacePeter Fleming's account of his 3500-mile trek from Peking to Kashmir in 1935, a tale of adventure and portrait of a now-lost China, is enriched by his self-deprecating sense of humor and his expressive prose.
But there are rewards along the way, moments of clarity and tranquility, such as when he looks down from a hillside onto the caravan he's traveling with: “There it wound, stately, methodical, through the bleak and empty land, 250 camels pacing in single file." Fleming excels at description.
В Тибет его больше не пускают как агента коммунизма.
Читая эту книжку, получаешь эффект практически полного стерео.Поскольку у нас все не как у людей, я продолжил не хронологически: этой книге должно предшествовать «В Пекин: забытое путешествие», но она мне в руки попалась позже.
В «Татарии» же родной город удостоен краткого описания: «гарнизонное убожество Владивостока».Пару слов о его спутнице: Элла Кини Майяр, про которую можно рассказывать долго, если кто не знает, в частности добилась того, чего не удалось Сэмюэлу Бекетту, — она училась в Москве у Пудовкина; а помимо этого примечательно, что о ней сняли документалку братья Дубини, известные, в первую очередь, своим фильмом, вошедшим в канон пинчоноведения, «Путешествие в разум П.».
Fleming and Swiss writer Ella Maillart set out to travel overland between Peking, China to Kashmir, India in the 1930's - an unstable time when China's Communist insurgency was on the rise, and the far west province of Xinjiang was well beyond the control of the capital.
I traveled some of that same territory in 2002, and I really enjoyed reading about Xining, Qinghai, Kumbum monastery, the southern branch of the Silk Road on the far side of the Taklamakan Desert, Khotan and Kashgar, and more.
It was nice to see from Fleming's account that, despite their political fortunes, the essential character of these people and places remains the same.An outstanding work of travel literature.
This was an interesting account of a journey from Peking by train, then by foot, camel and horse, from Sining in the East, across the high plains, mountains, deserts and marshes of southern Mongolia, the north-east corner of Tibet, into the Sinkiang region of China, and over the mountain passes into what is now Pakistan and Srinigar in India, following the little-travelled southern Silk Route.
"When people know no customs but their own, and when their own customs are few because of the extreme simplicity of their life, it is only courteous to respect those customs when you can."Finally, I was amused to note that Fleming and Kini engaged in a primitive form of Bookcrossing, although the fate of the books was not what one might hope.
"It seemed to me that, if there is one thing worse than wearing bright green clothes, it is wearing bright green clothes which are also soaking wet; I therefore sadly resumed the shorts and shirt of every day and prepared to let down the British Raj." Luckily, the cheerful young man from the Consul-General's staff is unfazed, greeting him with "I don't know whether you drink beer.." It made me thirsty just reading about it.His perspective on the locals inevitably reflects the time and place, though his descriptions are usually shrewd.
I'll be interested to read Maillart's acount of the same trip, "Forbidden Journey - From Peking to Cashmir" and see what she thought of Fleming and the locals.
Of course, the very thing for a British newspaper reporter and his photographer friend to do would be a personal jaunt 3,500 miles west from Peking to Kashmir.
You could not smoke, you could not speak (for nobody heard you), and after a time you could not think consecutively...The wind...played the same part on the Tibetan plateau as insects do in the tropical jungle.”	It took six full months in China – having three baths in that time frame – all the while cheated by Chinese, Mongol, or Turkic (Turkistani, that he called “Turki”) guides.
Then, after one more month, Bandipur, Kashmir, in British India.
Peter Fleming's life, at the time, was thought by his contemporary readers and fans to be something akin to our idea of an Indiana Jones; however, by modern sensibilities the greatest strength of his writing lies in his disarming British taste for understatement, his wit and nonchalance in the face of outrageous discomfort and danger, and his general sense of being unimpressed with his own exploits.The tale itself is amazing.
At the time the region was a black hole to Westerners, with none having set foot in or come out of central Tartary in several years -- and in fact, most Chinese and Russians had little idea what was happening there at the time either.
He traveled with a Swiss journalist, Kini, by truck, donkey, horse, camel, and foot through Siankiang, now known as the Western Uighur Autonomous Region of China.
There was a likely chance that they would be arrested or killed as spies.Yet Fleming's book is a light, wry, acerbic, self-deprecating narrative of the trip.
Fleming highlights his own errors and failings, while praising the competence and humor of his traveling companion Kini.
But if you can read a book with that tone, and you like travelogues, history, and wry British humor, this book is for you.
Rereading of a favourite travel book.I first read this in a lovely 1930's hardback edition some 30 years ago and found the writing spellbinding and very evocative.
Having not looked at it for a number of years, I have just re-read it (after having re-read Brazilian Adventure and One's Company).The writing is still well paced and very evocative of a long and sometimes tedious and arduous journey.
Make sure that you get an edition that has all the photographs - although the quality of some is not brilliant, they help add an extra dimension to the book and the people and places described.Whilst there are some dated phrases and terms, they can be easily ignored or skipped over.
A vivid account of a spectacularly tedious journey, pace landscape. I think Peter Fleming was a better writer than his brother, and it is easy to see how he might have served as a partial model for James Bond.
Peter Fleming, just twenty seven years old, and Special Correspondent to ‘The Times’ [London] decided that it was high time to go in; to gather and report evidence, to sift fact from fiction.
A like-minded fellow Swiss Special Correspondent to a Paris newspaper, Kini (Ella) Maillart joined him in the endeavour.Fleming’s account of the trials, dangers, frustrations and rewards of this very long and hard journey, completed largely on horseback and on foot, is extraordinarily vivid and utterly compulsive.
This is a great adventure that spans 3500 miles from Peking to Kashmir. The author captures the landscape in a great way that makes the reader feel they really have been asked to join the journey.
Peter Fleming was not a great writer. His choppy, scribbling style do not hold up either. But a monkey could have written about such an adventure and kept me engaged.
In 1935 27 year old Peter Fleming spent seven months travelling across western China, one of the most remote corners of the world, to Kashmir.The book recounts his amazing track across Sinkiang / Xinjiang, the Wild West of China, an area beyond the railheads.
I’ve read several other books about the western extremes of China but they have all been written in the late 20th / early 21st century and focus on the persecution of the Uyghurs by the Chinese state.
This book added to my understanding of the remoteness of the landscape and what native life is (or was) like in that world
I enjoyed this a lot.
Peter Fleming (Ian's brother) spends several months travelling through Central Asia in 1935, with Swiss journalist Ella Maillart.
However, most of it is about the day to day travel experience, and this is done very well.He manages to capture the occasional tedium of travel (e.g. bureaucratic delays) and make it interesting to read about.
He is interested in the people around him, both those they meet on the way and their various guides on the journey.
I enjoyed reading about his travel companion and at some stage I'll try reading her version of events Forbidden Journey
Along with Kini Maillart - who was an amazing woman in her own right - they travelled by train, yak, horse and camel across deserts, plains, oases and mountains to record the state of the country from Peking to Kashmir in India.
That too was a forcible reminder of the time period.The true beauty of this work though, is the observations he makes about the people and their lives, about the landscape he travels through.
The more domestic observations about the hardships he and Kini shared keep it humble and human.
I really have done my best -- and it was difficult, because we led such a queer, remote, specialized kind of life -- to describe the journey without even involuntary falsification, to tell what it fell like at the time, to give a true picture of a monotonous, unheroic, but strange existence.
On paper it was a spectacular journey, but I have tried to reduce it to its true dimensions."It is amazing to compare what he wrote about to the China of today.
It probably looks nothing like the landscape painted.
It's not quite as polished as The Road To Oxiana, a slightly close comparison, but that book's a miracle.
Reading this in parallel with Ella Maillart's account of the same journey was great.
He seems more writerly, anyway, perhaps; taking more time, building up his half-ironic drama, for the big milestones on their way.
At times reading both was a little dull when they were quite the same It looks clearly like they compared notes or manuscripts, when the same observations come out at the same point.
I'd like to thank the other reviewers here whose example suggested taking the books on together.
What need I say?
In 1935, an Englishman and a Swiss woman, both adventurers in their own right, team up to make a (highly illegal) journey overland from Peking to India without the Chinese government's knowledge or permission.
The 3,500-mile journey takes seven and a half months and takes Mr. Fleming and Ms. Maillart to the dry, arid, western extremes of China.
Along the way they meet Mongols, Tibetans, Chinese Muslims, Tajiks, Kyrgyz, and all manner of colorful characters.
This book is excellent, and a highly accessible read.
A fascinating glimpse into China's borderlands on the eve of its descent into Communism.
This edition has no maps, or any other illustration.
It's frustrating to read about the photos he took (and the film that might have been ruined), but not have any pictures for the reader.
Still, fans of adventure books must read this.Sample quote (describing two of the many guides): One of these was a glib Turki from Turfan, the shoddiest type of the "miles gloriosus"; the other was a tough and slightly less unreliable Tadjik with an oafish, lycanthropic face which suggested a good-natured illustration to the tale of Little Red Riding Hood.

I had been travelling for six months already. Crèches in the Ukraine and wild boars in the Caucasus; the blue-tiled tomb of Tamerlane in Samarkand, and the legendary, dilatory Turksib Railway; forced labour gangs behind the Amur frontier gazing hungrily up at the train windows, and the garrison-town squalor of Vladivostock; the smell of opium in Manchurian inns; Japanese soldiers firing at unseen bandits between the wheels of a train; little horses and great frosts in Mongolia; a Christmas shooting snipe on the Yangtse, and squash in the Embassy at Tokyo…
A sample: "A little further on we sighted it: the Mintaka Pass, the pass of a Thousand Ibex, 15,600 feet above sea level.
A rough zig zag track led up to it climbingpainfully the steep and rock strewn wall of the valley.
Snow began to fall as we attacked the pass.
The falling snow made a veil which half shut out the world, the valley sprawling below me and the jagged peaks above; so small things close at hand took on a kind of intimacy, a new importance.
There was no sound at all save the chink of the stallion's hooves on rock."
I enjoyed this unusual report of adventure and travel from China to India in the 1930s. Fleming is the older brother of Ian Fleming of James Bond fame and an excellent writer. His optimistic and easy-going reactions to what most of us would consider hair-raising conditions are remarkable, and there are many insights into the political and social life of Tartary in wartime. This is a book that lingers in the memory.
Extremely well-written, and pretty insightful. Also: authorial voice was mildly witty, and decently descriptive. Managed to lay out all the geopolitical, sociological/anthropological stuff, also, in a way that was not tiresome (although occasionally--incorrect in an amusing way). Do not see that many travelogues in English about Western China/Central-ish Asia, and so, also notable for that reason. This was a good one, will read again.
