https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/331920.Flipped
This is the story of two beautiful kids who learn the true meaning of loving someone through an inventive panoply of mishaps and events.
Now this is not your usual boy-meets-girl story and I cannot wait for you to discover why!
… Let’s just say that the farm thingy is a vital element!I had a lot of fun reading this book.
Juli’s adoration for Bryce doesn’t have much foundation until a good part of the story, and that’s, I think, where the book let down a lot of people (it most certainly feels like an infatuation at first).
It is such a lovely book to read.
"Some of us get dipped in flat, some in satin, some in gloss…” He turned to me. “But every once you will find someone who’s iridescent, and when you do, nothing will ever compare.” Initial Final Page Thoughts.*Eyes tree outside window*I wonder…High Points.Juli. The entire Baker clan! Why don’t all YA characters have fun families?! Authors, you’re missing a trick! Bryce (eventually). Chest. Front yards. Eggs. Chickens. Basket boys. Pie. Girls with iron backbones. Tree climbing. Newspaper article
Sycamore trees.Low Points.Even though I adored this book, I would have liked to have seen Bryce and Juli’s reactions be drawn out for a bit longer.
Sure she was a little bit crazy when it comes to said dazzle-eyed boys but, well, even the best of us can get momentarily distracted by a boy who smells like watermelon.Hero.Oh Bryce, you plonker.My friend, in the first few chapters I just wanted to throttle you.
I wanted it to go on forever and ever but it ended.There’s nothing I love more than a ‘he-said-she-said’ kind of story and first loves and girls with fluffy hair and boys with dazzling blue eyes.
P.s: I have Both,Read and watched flipped...But in my opinion the movie was utterly charming ! I'm glad I watched it first so it was much easier to visualize the sences from the book :)   THIS MOVIE WAS AHMAZING !!!!.......I laughed...I cried... AND I fell in love with the idea of ♥ all over again....:) (This movie is a definte must see for everyone ! trust me ! its just WOW ♥Even the soundtracks ahmazing ! )
Reread: June 1st 2018Rereading Flipped for the third time. I will never get tired reading this book. After all these years, I'm still in love with Bryce and Juli's story. It was unforgettable and their romance still gave me butterflies. A love so pure and innocent. It never gets old and I love it. 😍❤ My forever favorite ❤❤❤❤🐥 I have to say this is one of the most underappreciated YA books. It deserves the hype, one hundred and ten percent ☑💁🏻-----------------------------------------------Reread:
I don't know how many times I've read or watched the movie (nth time), I can't remember but it's absolutely good and I still flipped all over it.
Definitely one of the Best Book to Movie Adaptation of All Time and I'm dead serious.
I highly recommend this book to everyone.
I flipped when I saw that guy whom I really liked when I was in 6th grade.(But I didn't stalked him) :) ahahaha!At first, Bryce Loski hated Juli ( in a way he was really annoyed at her), But Juli likes Bryce so much, then..
Edit : I just watched the movie and it was SO FREAKING CUTE! ❤Please don't laugh. Or do. I DON'T CARE. I'm just gonna smile like a big moron all day.► Don't you ever want to say "this is JUST me!" and then realize that maybe, just maybe, you'd better keep your mouth shut because it might change how people see you? Yeah? Because that's what I feel right now. Okay let's go. Ready? "She didn't just barge into my life. She barged and shoved and wedged her way into my life." ▧ Juli is just like me! L
Anyway, what I'm trying to say is this : in my honest opinion Juli has such a refreshing, believable and relatable voice that I couldn't help but love her from the very beginning.
a very long time.✘ Boy realizes that Girl is pretty great, in factEnd of story?
Not that kind of movie anyway).▧ This book is young-adult but on the middle-grade side, and I know it will stop a lot of readers, because we're all grown-up and all that stuff, but under the fluffy cute layers, what we find are questions about difference, appearances, judgments : why do we like people?

I don't know where to start to talk about this book but first of all, I want to tell you that this book changed my life.
a few months passed and I moved on but not completely, I still quite felt hurt and sad until this book came into my life.
this book changed my life and I know I'll never be the same anymore and I'm truly glad that I read this book.
I could tell from their tones whose chapter it was, but I loved Juli 100000% and Bryce, like, um, 2%.
And, even to the end, I don't really like Bryce.
But Juli is like this tree-loving, energetic, bouncy, exuberant person who I JUST ADORED.
But, I did love Juli too much and kind of thought Bryce didn't deserve her at all.
Bryce would say it from his POV and then Juli would.
And I liked the cute, quirky writing, and the characters that fairly leapt off the page.
I absolutely love this book. It's soo cute because it talks about a seven year old boy and a seven year old girl that just moves into his neighborhood. She likes him alot but he just wants to get as far away from her as possible. Later on, he starts to realize that she might not be that bad and that he might actually like her BUT, she starts to realize that he might not be the one she was looking for after all! It's all FLIPPED!I LOVEEE THIS BOOK. I DEFINETLY RECOMMEND IT FOR EVERYONE.
As it turns out, Wendelin Van Draanen’s Flipped was the right book for the break from gritty novels that I needed.The moment Juli Baker sets her eyes upon the blue-eyed Bryce Loski, she fell in love with him.
Juli realizes that Bryce is nothing but a tactless arrogant jerk while Bryce started to notice Juli’s iridescence.If John Green have written an 8th grade he-said she-said coming-of-age novel, it would have been something like this.
"The first time I saw him, I flipped."  Wow, what a fun read! Everything in this book is loaded with all kinds of cuteness. I like the setting, the premise, and the whole idea of this book. I was kind of, in some way, in love with it.Flipped is not just purely fluff, it's deeper than what I've expected because it conveys great messages that serve as an inspiration to the readers.  "One's character is set at an early age. The choices you make now will affect you for the rest of your life."  I li
Everything in this book is loaded with all kinds of cuteness.
I like the setting, the premise, and the whole idea of this book.
I was kind of, in some way, in love with it.Flipped is not just purely fluff, it's deeper than what I've expected because it conveys great messages that serve as an inspiration to the readers.
I like the characters in this book, especially Bryce's grandfather.
My only concern with this book was that I kind of had a hard time going through the same events from both POVs.But overall, it was a great and refreshing read.
the way it brings Bryce and Julianna together is just spectacular! I recomend this to all who love good childish humor! It is soooo "LOL"!
Can't do words *___* Trees, eggs and kisses :3 What else do you need in life?Love was the first thing July felt when she met Bryce, her new neighbor.
Oblivious to this fact, July intimidated Bryce with her forthrightness and curiosity while Bryce tried to hide from her as much as possible.The first thing I loved about Flipped was the warm feeling of simpler times and their innocence and ingenuity.
I loved how clueless she is about how he feels about her but at the same time how the little things eventually win him over.
He talks to us like it matters to him how we see things, and it felt refreshing to be included and considered.•	Juli seemed a little too over-enthusiastic and idk, over-the-top in almost everything she does, in her crush on Bryce, her love for the sycamore, her daily actions in general.
She looks ‘at the big picture’.•	Idk, but Juli’s and Bryce’s family were weird.
But I loved Juli’s dad and Bryce’s mom – they were the only sensible people in the book.•	The whole ‘Basket Boy’ thing was really weird and funny and idk, unbelievable.
English review at the bottom "La primera vez que Juli Baker vio a Bryce Loski, flipó. La primera vez que Bryce vio a Juli, corrió" Este libro es absolutamente bello. Leerlo es estar todo el tiempo así:o asíy en ocasiones, asíPero principalmente es amar y, a veces, odiar, a los personajes. La historia sigue a Juli Baker y a Bryce Losky durante 6 años, desde que Bryce se muda al vecindario de Juli a la tierna edad de 7 años. Juli queda enganchada de Bryce (view spoiler)[principalmente por sus ojos
Bryce por su parte se vuelve menos superficial y valiente, lo cual adore, los errores que cometió pueden perdonarsele primero por su edad y segundo por que realmente esta arrepentido.El final sinceramente ME ENCANTO (view spoiler)[obviamente sabemos que Bryce y Juli no se conocen y merecen hacerlo, más por todo lo que han crecido, aunque es obvio que, si se da, la relación no va a terminar en "Vivieron felices para siempre" porque tienen trece años, así que pulgares arriba por el final abierto donde apenas van a realmente hablar nuestros adorables y cambiantes protagonistas (hide spoiler)], tanto el del libro como el de la película, me parece excelente para la historia porque no lleva a que se arruine nuestra percepción de ambos.________________________________________
Flipped reminds me of a younger/innocent version of Neighbor From Hell series. Juli and Bryce are neighbors who attend the same school. Their rocky relationship portrays the struggles between boys and girls in elementary and middle school. Both learn to look beyond the surface and search for something deeper in the human nature. In doing so they discover themselves as they continue mature. "One's character is set at an early age, son. The choices you make now will affect you for the rest of your
Flipped reminds me of a younger/innocent version of Neighbor From Hell series.
Juli and Bryce are neighbors who attend the same school.
Their rocky relationship portrays the struggles between boys and girls in elementary and middle school.
Both learn to look beyond the surface and search for something deeper in the human nature.
In doing so they discover themselves as they continue mature.
"One's character is set at an early age, son.
Once I figure out where I can find this movie I plan to watch it.
The trailer looks good.
Flipped movie trailer.
For example, in the beginning, Draanen describes the first time Bryce and Juli laid eyes on each other.
For her to back off—you know, just give me some space.” While Juli says, “My heart stopped.
You know, like the whole world is moving all around you, beneath you, all inside you, and you’re floating.
And as the experiences make their way through each of their lives, I soon remember to never judge someone without getting to know them first—especially Bryce and Juli.
Juli will soon see that there’s more to Bryce Loski than she might know.
Por lo general no me gustan los libros que son de chicos chicos (12, 13 años) que se enamoran.
Y los POV's de los dos estaban re bien hechos 1)porque a pesar de que los dos contaban lo mismo era completamente diferente porque Juli y Bryce al ser opuestos, "X situación" cada uno lo veía con ojos diferentes 2) No había manera de que estuvieras leyendo un capitulo desde el pov de Bryce y pensaras que lo contaba Juli y 3) Aunque ambos contaban la misma situación en NINGÚN momento me resulto aburrido o repetitivo.
This book had me interested at first, but deep down it's just a lot of melodramatic teen romance. This is not a bad thing especially if you're a fan of the romance genre, but I'm really not much of a romance reader.
It's one of my favorite movie and I liked everything about, everything.Sycamore Tree to Roosters, Champ to Boa Constrictor, and on the top of that Bryce and Juli.
I must say, Flipped is a great book and also has a great teaching, as well as being huge amount of fun to read because of the author's fabulous techniques.
One of the techniques the author uses in the book is showing different perspectives throughout the book, to be speciefic: the way he describes the point of view from Juli's and Bryce's perspective, also a very fun technique since you're always wondering what the other character in the story thinks too.
Another entertaining technique is the quite fancy way the author makes suspense in the story, like slowing down time, he shows the characters feelings and exposes his or her thoughts toward the event.
“Algunos de nosotros tenemos un acabado mate, otros satinado, otros esmaltado… pero de vez en cuando conoces a alguien que es iridiscente, y cuando ocurre, no hay nada comparable”  ¡Qué libro más maravilloso! Me he enamorado totalmente de este dulce y divertido libro.La historia sigue a Julliana “Juli” Baker y Bryce Loski, como se conocen a los siete años, cuando él se muda y continua por seis años de su vida, hasta el comienzo de su adolescencia.Julie se enamorá inmediatamente de Bryce y comi
Ambos son tan diferentes que no ven lo mismo y no prestan atención a los mismos detalles, así que al leer un acontecimiento, yo me moría por leer lo que el otro había pensado de eso.La historia no se limita solamente a Bryce y Juli, sino también hacia sus familias y la influencias de estas en la vida de los niños y su crianza.Tenemos a los Loski, una familia adinerada, de buena posición social, absolutamente perfecta, pero que en realidad se cae a pedazos.
I needed a good break from all the greedy and dark reads and this one was exactly what my poor soul wanted: A great coming-of-age story.Flipped is a book filled with laughter, awkwardly cute situations and an absolutely adorable first love between Juli, the clever and determined beautiful girl and Bryce, the arrogant jerk with the sweet heart and the most amazing blue eyes.Juli used to follow Bryce around since the first time they met.
Bryce finally takes a chance to see the real Juli Baker and falls automatical in love with her.
No incluyo en esta lista al padre de Bryce por obvias razones, pero sí que me dio mucha tristeza su familia en general.El final fue perfecto para mí.
Teniendo en cuenta la edad de los chicos y que en realidad nunca se habían dado la oportunidad de conocerse íntimamente deja una buena sensación de que, en lugar de terminar, empieza otra historia tras cerrar el libro.
Es un final abierto que da oportunidad al lector de pensar que todo se arregla y que finalmente Bryce enmienda sus errores y decide tomar otro camino y otras decisiones.En fin, que entre tantas escenas cómicas este libro definitivamente deja muchas cosas.
“I'll ride my bike all the stinkin' way to school for the rest of eternity if it means being with her."  THIS IS THE CUTEST BOOK IN THIS UNIVERSE AND I LOVED IT.
OMG. SO. CUTE. AND THAT MOVIE ADAPTATION WAS ABSOLUTELY BRILLIANT. I LOVE.
Knowing two sides of the story is always the best.
I LOVE THIS BOOK. I seriously looooooovvvvvvveeeee this book. I laughed. I cried. I laughed and cried some more. I'm going to buy a bunch of copies of this book and give them to all of my friends.
I've read the first chapter and I FLIPPED.  It seems I needed a dose of cute and this book was the cutest thing in months.Rating 4.5 (rounding on 5 without regrets)Grandpa to Bryce... “Some of us get dipped in flat, some in satin, some in gloss….” He turned to me. “But every once in a while you find someone who's iridescent, and when you do, nothing will ever compare.” Juli Baker has had a crush on Bryce Loski from the moment she laid her eyes on him. "The first day I met Bryce Loski, I flipped
Juli Baker has had a crush on Bryce Loski from the moment she laid her eyes on him.
Now, something like this usually makes my eyes role (and gag a little) ...I hate insta-love / insta-crush whatever you call it.
When I read about blue eyes and long lashes, I am a moment away from hurling the book across the room ...
I don't know, maybe because it's puppy-love (they are seven at the beginning and thirteen-ish by the end, I think), they are JUST-SO-CUTE!!!Anyway *puling myself together*,...unfortunately for little Juli Baker, the crush is one-sided.
5 sao.Mình đọc cuốn này chỉ với mong muốn tìm cảm giác nhẹ nhàng, yêu đời thôi nhưng không ngờ được đọc một cuốn sách hay đến vậy :).
Nhưng tác giả rất hay khi không chỉ làm cho người đọc thấy thú vị và hấp dẫn dõi theo từng chương mà còn tận dụng cách "phân vai" đó để thể hiện tính cách, suy nghĩ của từng nhân vật.
Yes, its quiet amusing that they understand things at early ages, in short, they are darn smart [esp, Juli] and yes it is a good story with great voice and meaning.The whole 
is the core of the book and the author emphasis and explain it clearly that if you want to read this by kids, they definitely gonna understand whats the meaning if it and what the whole books saying to you.
I'm not saying that its satisfy my want to see what will they become after that.Its just perfect in its ending of new 'sum of its parts' ways they truly see each other (view spoiler)[and the sycamore tree that Bryce planted for Juli.
