https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/877332.Gladys_Aylward
"To realize that millions of Chinese had never heard of Jesus Christ was to me a staggering thought, and I felt that sorely we ought to do something about it." This is a great book. It was my second time of reading about Gladys Aylward-the English Christian missionary who was "unqualified" hence rejected by a missionary organisation. She therefore decided to travel independently to China during a war......I love the simplicity of her faith throughout the book and the deep compassion she has for
I had longed to go to China, but never in my wildest dreams had I imagined that God would overrule in such a way that I would be given entrance into every village home; have authority to banish a cruel, horrible custom; have government protection; and be paid to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ as I inspected feet!Over time her patience, dedication and love for the people paid off as people recognised the true source of her compassion;“I have been a wicked woman, Ai-weh-deh,” she sobbed, “but I want to be different.
I cannot say enough about this book! Simply phenominal. God's working in her life and the lives of the Chinese believers is so clear! It is an ABSOLUTE must read for anyone who loves our Great God and Savior Jesus Christ!
Her life is truly unique and I would not mind reading hundreds of detailed pages covering what the Russian winter was like with no heat or clothes, what trekking across the Chinese mountains for weeks with barefoot children was like on her body and mind, and especially the joy she must have felt when a prayer is at last finally answered as only God can do.
I never feel like I am there in China with her, cooking soup for the traders or hiding in a cave from the Japanese soldiers.
I feel like she is giving a speech, bothering only to tell the highlights.
Like her adventures, they are not detailed enough.
I really enjoyed this autobiography. Amazing stories written very well. My only dislike, and I know I can't really count this towards my rating because it is real life, is the content. (view spoiler)[ There are numerous instances of violence, attempted rape, mild language and disturbing elements. (hide spoiler)] Not recommended for anyone under 15.
Another strong Christain woman. What an amazing story of dedication to the Great Commission. Really inspiring!
I first heard about Gladys Aylward in Noelle Piper's book, "Faithful Women and their Extraordinary God".
I as greatly intrigued by her life and wanted to read this book for some time.
:)Gladys Aylward left, alone, for China in 1932.
She had been denied by Missions Organization and knew nothing of the country except that there were millions of Chinese that had never heard the name of Jesus Christ.
It is two to three games in iPad. But, in Gladys Aylward's autobiography, The Little Woman, it is a journey from England to China.
Gladys Aylward is a missionary, well, even earlier, she is just a maid.
But, she comes to China in 1930 to preach the Gospel in response to the Lord's call, alone, with 10 dollars.
She comes to give hopes, offer belief to thousands of wondering Chinese People.This book is a great inspiration to all missionaries.
"God helps me", said Gladys Aylward, "I am a Chinese."
After watching the movie, "The Inn of the Sixth Happiness," starring Ingred Bergmann, I wanted to know more about Gladys Aylward, so I purchased a copy of this short biography.
The movie, based on Aylward's work in China was uplifting, enlightening and inspirational.
I wondered how true to her real story the movie was.
The book Gladys Aylward has written about her experiences portrays more of the difficulties she faced, the hardships encountered and the great trust and faith she had in God. Both the movie and the book are excellent!
She learns about a country in transition from the reign of emperors to the harsh changes under Mao.Most importantly, she finds out about the lives of Chinese women, who, for centuries have been relegated to the place of a male possession, hidden in courts, altered - through foot binding - so that they fit the male perspective of wealth and beauty.And then there is Gladys, alone, a westerner, having to learn a new language, the opposite of the women she helps.
She really was a brave, pioneering type.Definitely worth a read for those interested in women's lives.
Oh, how books like these encourage my heart! I kept thinking to myself while reading this, "I cannot believe this is a real story!" It seems all the adventures of a world are summed up in merely one life, and it's simply remarkable to realize how a good ol'fashioned dose of pure grit, hard work, obedience, and the simple call to faithful living, preaching, and proclaiming the love and sacrifice of Jesus had such a profound impact not only on the Chinese nation, but on the hearts of calloused English and American Christians as well. What an inspiring read!
I had seen The Inn of the Sixth Happiness many years ago and was very moved by Gladys Aylward's story. So I was excited to read her actual story when my book group chose it.Gladys' story is nothing short of inspirational, as any story is of someone who has followed their bliss and fulfilled their life's calling. I'm glad she wrote it down to inspire others.It's a small, easy read. I'm glad to add to my "read" shelf.
This book is a must-read! It is not written in the best literary style; probably due to the fact that Gladys was reticent to share her story -- it seems people had to drag the details from her. Thankfully, somebody was able to capture a bit of this amazing woman's call of God and His leading in her life as she went to China as a missionary without anything by the way of support. There is an old Ingrid Bergman movie based on just one incident in her life, The Inn of the Sixth Happiness.
Super short, easy read, but such an amazing story. A girl decides she needs to do missionary work in China, and leaves everything she knows and has in London to make it happen. Talk about faith and perseverance! She gave her whole life to spreading the good news of Jesus Christ. Everyone could learn from her faith and determination and charity!
I am absolutely blown away by this woman and her faith. I cannot help but admire someone who was able to put so much faith in God and accomplish so much with so little. Her experiences are definitely worth a read and if you want a story that will uplift and inspire you then pick this up!
I am a sucker for missionary stories. The stories Gladys shares of her mission in China are a testament to the greatness of God. My soul has been lifted and charged for the transforming work of the gospel.
Great read!!! I would recommend it. Loved the book! Inspiring story of a great woman with a strong faith in Jesus. Our Lord answers prayers if we just have faith.
I could not put this book down! There are very few people in this world who possess the bravery, fortitude, and love of Christ shown by Ms. Aylward. Her words will inspire you!
I cannot and do not want to shake the conviction that came with reading about Gladys' life.
Gladys Aylward was an ordinary woman with an amazing God. Fantastic to read her story and the stories of those around her.
What an inspiring life Gladys lived. She was a women with such dedication and obedience to the Lord in everything she did. She lived courageously!
Incredible and inspiring.
Read how this "little woman" based her entire life on trusting God's promise:"Be ye not afraid of them-I am your God."When a friend of mine first told me about Gladys Aylward, I was like, "I need to read this woman's story!" I'm so happy that I finally did!
I encourage all my fellow Christians who feel lead or are being led to do something big for God but are still unsure on how to go about it or even feel like God has made a mistake in choosing you, to read Ms. Gladys Aylward's story.
"On the third day of my new, I was sitting on my bed reading my bible.
I had now reached Nehemiah.
I felt very sorry for him and understood why he wept and mourned when he heard about Jerusalem in its great need and could do nothing about it.
He was a sort of butler and had to obey his employer just like I did, I thought.
Then I turned to the second chapter.
'But he did go on,' I exclaimed aloud, and got up, a strange elation within me.
This is one of those books that you read and it just stays with you.This simple woman left England in her 20's because she felt called to go to war torn China and teach the people about the God of love.
This one small simple woman changed lives which had a ripple effect on the lives of those she changed.
She is a true example of how one person CAN change the world.This I know: I will read this book more than once in my life and I will read parts of it when I am in need of a "faith boost" (for lack of a better term).
This is a great little book.
I really enjoyed getting to know more about Gladys Aylward.
I have seen the movie of her life The Inn of Sixth Happiness several times, but there was a bit added to her story to enhance the movie.
She was quite a determined woman, leaving her home with no missions board supporting her and going to China during a turbulent time in pre-communist China's history.
Without God's protection she almost certainly would not have survived.
She barely gets out of Russia because they mistakenly thought she was a machinist rather than a missionary.
I just finished this wonderful and inspiring book. This is the true story of an English woman who goes to China to spread the gospel. She goes completely by faith, not knowing a word of the language. The movie "The Inn of the Sixth Happiness" was based on Gladys Aylward's story. It is impossible to read this book without feeling a surge of faith that with God all things are possible. It's a short easy-read book that remains with you in your spirit long after you finish it. Well written and refreshing.

Strange little book. I was watching Inn of the Sixth Happiness for the gazillionth time and felt the need to discover the true story. Safe to say, this Gladys was not Ingrid Bergman! In fact, very little of the Hollywood film is based on the book. There are bits of recognisable similarities, but the film was definitely glammed up. As an historical account it lacked depth and detail, but it did give a flavour. Gladys comes across as the naive and simple woman that she was and that is quite charming. A pleasant and innocuous read I suppose..
Amazing, inspiring, miraculous -- Gladys Aylward's story has the fingerprints of God all over it; and, it wasn't because of her education, her talents, or her abilities. It was because of her realization of God's claim on her life and her willingness to surrender to Him. If you want to be inspired to surrender yourself more fully to God's service no matter what the cost, this is the book to read. Throughout the book, I was continually blessed by this woman of faith.
I loved reading Gladys's story. Her faith and friendship with God remain steadfast throughout her trials and are real encouragements to me. I'm very thankful her story has been recorded.As for the writing itself, the book is very engaging. So far, in our home, it's been read and enjoyed by my husband, myself, and our teenage daughter (who we actually bought it for).This is definitely worth reading!
