https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44644.Principle_Centered_Leadership
I would agree with many of the other reviewers that this was a fairly repetitive book, and normally I would have only given something like this 4 stars, but the difference for me was that the concepts are powerful enough that it deserves a lot of praise.
The book is a good companion to Covey's phenomenal 7 Habits book, by acting as a new lens through which to view the 7 Habits concepts.
Dr. covey will be greatly missed, but I believe he accomplished what he pledged in the final chapter of this book.
This book was pretty good, but I got a little tired of reading it and decided to take it back to the library. I think it has some good tips on being effective in life and business and leadership, while also having good habits. The first couple of chapters, Covey reiterates what he said in his book "The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People." I never read that, but enjoyed the recap.All in all, if you want good motivational business/leadership books, this is a good one to look at.

This is an excellent book that shows how to implement the 7 Habits of Highly-Effective People in organizations and relationships.
I think that this book gives great insights into effective human resource planning and strategy.
You have to look at your organization as a whole and people as a whole.
A mission and common goal are important.
I found the chapters on managing expectations, and involving and empowering people very interesting...especially because of situations I have seen before in work settings.
Successful organizations and families and individuals thrive amidst change and challenges as they have common values and principles to hold to and use as a guide.
كتاب ضعيف لكاتب مميز...لا أنصح بقراءتهكلام كثير برايي الشخصي اللي قرأ العادات السبعة للناس الأكثر فعالية مالو بحاجة هاد الكتابواللي ما قرأ العادات السبعة ما حيفهم هاد الكتاب
من المحزن أن أكتب هذا الكلام من بعد وفاة ستيفن كوفي بيوم واحد ! الكتاب في وصفه الأول "كثير حكي" يمكن كان اختصار الكثير من المقدم وإعطاء خلاصات مفيدة بشكل أجمل، يحتوي على الكثير من النظريات والجانب الذي يتحدث فيه الكتاب مبني على البعد العملي تماماً.تشعر في لحظات أنك ضائع في صفحاته لعدم وجود بعض الترابط، الترجمة أثرت ! من الممكن.النجمة الثالثة استحقها لأنه في أجزاء يعطيك كلاما ً رائعا ً يمكن استقراءه من الواقع أو تحويله إلى الواقع.وللأمانة الكتاب من الممكن أن يعطى كدورة أو مادة تدريسية، ولكن لا يصلح كتابا ً للقراءة فقط.
This book was very good. However, the concepts and topics were very in depth and honestly deeper then my limited understanding could comprehend. Most books of this type take me a few weeks to read. I have been reading this book for a few months. I would read a few paragraphs and then have to digest what it said. I underlined or highlighted several key points and will likely keep this book on my bookshelf to refer to in the future.
I love Covey; he really goes in depth while keeping everything plain and simple. This book basically goes over four levels of Leadership; Personal, Interpersonal, Managerial and Organizational and how you will succeed at each level by applying the key corresponding principles; Trustworthiness, Trust, Empowerment and Alignment.If you are familiar with Covey you will tie a lot of these principles with other of his concepts, I felt this gave me an extra layer of understanding. Read It!
يحتوي على مجموعة من المبادئ التى ترتكز عليها القيادة الناجحة , في المشاريع والأعمال والإدارة . يُلم بعض الجوانب والقيم الإجتماعية والصفات والطبائع الشخصية التى قد تُعد من العقبات لشخصية القائد في الإدارة .بعض اللمحات أيضا فيما يتعلق بالقيادة ومدى تكوين علاقات جادة ومفيدة في مواقع العمل , والنجاح في التواصل وعلاقتة بأفراد العمل خارج المؤسسة .يعاب على الكتاب كثرة السرد وعدد الصفحات .
Who would not like our political leaders to practice the type of leadership described in this book, especially in the contentious climate that seem to be the rule these days? As for the book itself, the constant repetition of the same ideas becomes tedious after a while, though I understand that it is a compendium of articles written for different audiences.
Excellent. Everyone in any type of management position should read this book. Actually, I listened to it...over and over...and then bought the cd. Simple, thoughtful and encouraging. I want to buy a copy for those who don't think they need it.
Page 154: WTF?"How do we serve and eat the lunch of champions (feedback) and then the dinner of champions (course correction) within the context of the breakfast of champions (vision)?"
I recommend every leader to read it. .it's very handy . great book Stephen you are the best
core leadership notions based on principles
Don't get me wrong: Principle-Centered Leadership is a great book.
I admit, it's so easy to blame others for their blatant mistakes, especially for a particularly rigorous game like DotA 2.
We often like to push the blame towards other people, even when we have significant blame of our own.
Principle-Centered Leadership debunks that: it transposes Covey's Seven Habits for Highly Effective People into the business world, but still centers the accountability into within.
Silence is a virtue.Jokes aside, though, the topics in this book were well-organized, with constant reminders towards people being interdependent with one another and of the importance of proactivity and empathy.
Okay I read this book just to improve my personal relationship with people and my intimate life.
The law of the farm applies generally to everything in this world, from business to personal or intimate relationship.The book also talk about the different forms of power.
People accept ideas that come with imagery, sounds.Honestly, this book is a great read for me and I would advice you read it too if you want to improve your career, social circle and personal affairs.
Stephen Covey's Principle-Centered Leadership paradigm is a very good read.
I love that his ideas are based on universal natural systems, principles or what his calls the "law of the farm" and not the latest sexy, quick fix or power-centered fad of the day.
Covey's own paradigm is spirit and meaning-based teaches one to have an "abundance" versus "scarcity mindset.
He stresses the difference between being principle versus value-centered and how doing so will keep you on purpose.
I think Stephen's a man ahead of his time and has written books that will stand the test of time.
I listened to the audio copy of this book. It was read by the author and even though he has great knowledge, he is not a great narrator. The information in the book is easy to understand: create an organization, find people who fit your morals and ideals, get them to work together and create their own vision that is in line with your so they take ownership of it. The ideas and examples are clear and thankfully the book is short.
As a Senior Manager/leader for 25 years, this was the definitive and absolutely best book I ever read to help me become self-reflective and intentional in my leadership practice. Highly recommend it to all those in leadership roles.
Lots of platitudes which can be good, but difficult for a deep-dive of content.
A quick read with lots of practical steps for leaders.
Wow!!
Maybe in 1992 the book was teaching something meaningful.Although I can't say I disagree with anything in this book, I feel like I haven't learned anything new from it.
Collection of articles, and brief summarizations for his three top books: 7 habits, first things first, the third alternative
Một quyển sách hay dành cho tổ chức
That was certainly the case with Principle-Centered Leadership, which has been on my shelf for several years and which I chose to read in small 1-to-3-chapter-a-day chunks over the past month or so.
This chapter would be good reading at the beginning of someone's time in leadership, and regularly throughout that time.For the rest of the book, however, it's sufficient to read any two other chapters anywhere in the book and you'll catch the main points.
But since there will never be a lack of new books about leadership, and there are surely many more recent books that cover Covey's main points, I recommend that it's time to let Principle-Centered Leadership (the book, not the concept!) rest in peace.
This had good information on building a strong team culture (starting with you) by focusing on principles and not processes.
It's an organic system that must be cultivated like a farm.
I think it's a good compliment book.
If you want to learn about leading larger teams and changing the culture of an organization,I would recommend reading Turn the Ship Around!: A True Story of Turning Followers into Leaders and then this.
Many of the concepts are the same, but Turn the ship around is more digestible since it's in a story form.
This book provides more backup material on the concepts and techniques used.
بعيدا عن اني استفدت من محتوي الكتاب جدا وان بالكتاب ده ستيفن كوفي بقي م الكتاب المتميزين بالنسبالي ج
This book is directed to an all-inclusive target audience.
It book discusses the principle-centered leadership paradigm as it relates to businesses and organizations, as well as to individual and family relationships.
Any individual, from the CEO of a large organization to a newlywed stay-at-home parent, can apply the concepts explained in the book.
I would emphasize that it will be difficult to grasp all of the concepts from the book after one reading.
Multiple readings will be necessary to understand and begin the shift to the principle-centered leadership paradigm.
Even thinking about adding a review of this landmark book reminds me of how far we have fallen since 2008 when it was revealed that nothing was real and everything we thought we knew was wrong.For the pre-Bush/Obama Bail Out world of no moral hazard, this Reagan/Clinton era Covey classic observes that principle-centered leaders have common characteristics including:* continual learning* service orientation* radiate positive energy* belief in other people* leading balanced lives* seeing life as an adventure* synergistic* exercise mentally and physicallywseThese are all still true, but worth reading again in a world of bread and circuses.
