https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7864437-the-death-cure
=[FAIL 3: WHERE ARE MY FREAKING ANSWERS?How could this book even end without satisfying the readers?(1)I wanted Thomas to his memory back so we could learn exactly what he and Teresa did before the Trials and why were they specifically chosen.
Hell, I even wanted Minho's and Newt's memories back and Brenda's past.(2) How in the world did they end up in a green paradise with a hundred or so immunes so they can start over?
I love James Dashner's writing, I liked the book, don't get me wrong but I am really amazed at people who gave this book 5/5 stars.
Well, that was a major disappointment.Was it just me or did it feel like the author had absolutely no idea where to go with this story?
If Thomas, our MC, doesn't remember then the author doesn’t have to bother thinking up an explanation (hide spoiler)].
I mean, these characters were SO interchangeable that for a while there (view spoiler)[I was convinced that Brenda WAS Teresa and it was all just another elaborate WICKED hoax on Thomas!
Yeah, well that was already assumed (hide spoiler)].
(view spoiler)[I thought his death was sad but good.
(hide spoiler)] I like Jorge...
The story could have been more character-driven.The only part I rally liked in this book was Newt and his whole deal and how he ended up getting killed.
It was the most emotional part of the book and it was probably the single part I wouldn't have changed.Other little things I didn't like:*How Thomas never got his memory back so we could learn exactly what he and Teresa did before the Trials.*How WICKED was neither a good guy or a bad guy.
1.5 stars It's a very old axiom, but do you believe the end can justify the means? When there's no choice left? NO. No, I do not. Especially when the end, which in this case is the supposed resolution of 900+ pages' worth of suspense and mystery, ultimately ends up being bullshit. There is no explanation for anything and what little there is turns out to be the biggest fuckfest I have ever had the misfortune to read. The Maze Runner trilogy started off with so much potential. Yes, there were par
Curious and always asking questions: "Where are we?", "Why are they doing this?", "Just answer my questions, dammit!" Armed with this knowledge, you'd think that Thomas would be real eager to get his real memories back and figure out why his past self justified and conducted these trials in the first place, his relationship with Teresa, and who his mother is.In what I can only fathom as a bullshit way to drag out intrigue and save time in creating a backstory, the author makes Thomas not want his memories back because Wicked is evil, wah, wah, wah, and we can't trust anything they say!
MINHO IS AWESOME MINHO IS AWESOME MINHO IS AWESOME MINHO IS AWESOME......okay I think I made my point. (:CANNOT WAITTTT why do authors like to torture people! ;___;
It was plainly obvious to me that WICKED was bad, but in the end, they did (or Chancellor Paige did) one thing good--they transported our Gladers, Group B-ers and the rest of the Munies to the last Paradise on Earth, the last place where they could be free and not ruled by an evil corporation claiming to do good.I couldn't help but to smile when I read the last few pages of The Death Cure, though it admittedly was tainted by a frown.
Looking at the Flare-ridden world for the first time, it hit home for both Thomas and myself that a cure was needed desperately, but not by WICKED's means.
where to begin...First, the title: The Death Cure.
The death cure my foot.Second, this book really got me thinking....
The Creators die somehow and for who knows what reason, Thomas and his equally young friend Teresa get to be in charge???
Convenient of her to show up though.Fifth, (are you getting tired of my counting?), I'm so glad we got to listen to Thomas complain about having no memories for the first two books and then when he finally gets the chance to get them back, he super wusses out and says no.
Over 500 people tried to escape and only 200 made it??
Right as you're trying to get one thing straight in your head, another crazy mind trick gets thrown at you, making you shake your head and ask a bunch of questions again.
I never liked Brenda and I'm disappointed that Thomas ended up with her.
His storyline was good, but the final scene between he and Thomas was just as quick as the rest of the book, and it was a shame.
And I'm supposed to believe that Wicked would just let Thomas wander around Denver and not come get him because the virus was too rampant?
Rated: 1 to 1.5 starsEver since I picked up the first book in this series, I've thought to myself: This book is only good if the ending is good.
It just seems like a very poor excuse on the author's part to throw in some action and bloodbath into the series.
I mean, why else would anyone read this book until the end otherwise?-Newt's note and its request.
Other than for it to be used to bait the readers to read on, it served no purpose.
So pointless.Debated between giving it a 1 or 2 stars, but in the end, because it just failed so miserably, I figured people should be warned.
Wait are you telling me that the government completely anticipated every last move and this was exactly what was meant to happen? Again?Between the all-knowing governments and coincidental memory loss, this book really lost my interest.  Everything is so freaking convenient . The Maze Runner was intriguing. The Scorch Trials went a little left-field. This one is so far out of the ballpark that we are in the next county or possibly country.  The Main Pain : How incredibly stupid the characters ac
Wait are you telling me that the government completely anticipated every last move and this was exactly what was meant to happen?
Again?Between the all-knowing governments and coincidental memory loss, this book really lost my interest.
The Main Pain : How incredibly stupid the characters act.
The OTHER Main Pain: "Love Triangle"Now, if you think the romance with Theresa was shoe-horned in - you are going to absolutely hate the Brenda one.
Thomas spends the whole book mooning over one and then the other - it didn't build tension, I just became apathetic.
The OTHER, OTHER Main Pain: Missing MemoryEventually, Thomas gets the chance to finally figure everything out.
Meh. . . I don't know what happened but I loved the first book. Liked the second well enough and then I don't know. I'm glad some of my friends loved it though =)
Thomas, Brenda and Jorge become separated from the rest of the group as they break out from WICKED.
All the while WICKED are hunting them - they need Thomas, claim he is their ‘final candidate’.
My only gripe would be (view spoiler)[ I completely forgot they killed off Teresa right before they all escape to the safe land - that was a bit convenient, as it leaves Thomas and Brenda to pursue their relationship and therefore - no more love triangle.
(hide spoiler)] “He almost wanted to laugh at the irony.
Some of the plot twists and answers I questioned, but overall it was a fast-paced tale that easily drew me in.What Dashner does not do so well:Character development.
The book is about plot more than character so for the most part I gone on with the shallow characters, but it would have been nice to get a better feel for who I was caring about while reading about all their close calls with the Cranks.Description.
I was especially lost in the conclusion, partly because things weren't described well, but partly because I didn't feel like I all my questions were answered.(view spoiler)[How exactly did the wall convert into an entrance to the Flat Trans?
This series started off so good with the first book being amazing, but then the books kept deteriorating.Loving certain characters and then having them getting on your nerves is more annoying than I had ever imagined.
Most characters of this book, even those I liked in the first and second one, now I just found plain annoying.
This book could have honestly been 50 pages long it wouldn't have made a difference.Having characters running around with a no-brainer explanation and making them pigheaded, it was just frustrating.
Thomas, Minho, Newt, they were all fools although I felt bad for one of them in the end but it wouldn't have made a difference.
★★☆ 2.5 stars.Not bad but I expected sooo much more of the 'grand finale'...
I kept waiting for this huge plot twist about the "real reason" why wicked was doing all these horrible things-- but in the end, the explanation was the easy to guess-- so easy and lame that half of the guesses I had come up with were orders of magnitude more exciting and imaginative.
I can't argue that it was unrealistic that Thomas would be distant from Teresa given the events, but I'm just mad at the author for giving her hardly any face time in the second two books, like she never even had a chance to defend herself.
This shit HURTED. I'm such an emotional mess right now ugh.But all in all, I'd say I liked the movie version better. The movie was a lot more gripping.
Sie war nicht mal ein toller Charaktere.Und es macht auch einfach keinen Sinn, dass er am Ende mit ihr zusammen ist.
Dabei war alles nur ein Haufen Müll.Zudem, aus der Sicht der Teenager ist es irgendwo nachvollziehbar, dass sie sauer auf Angst sind.
Nur damit der liebe kleine Thomas nicht sterben muss, sind ein paar andere Leute draufgegangen.
Das war einfach so super dämlich und unrealistisch 🤦🏻‍♀️ Newt war der einzige den ich leiden konnte, aber der musste dann natürlich sterben, damit das Buch dramatischer wird.
Ich bin einfach wütend, im ersten Band hat so viel Potential gesteckt und in den andern beiden ist einfach nichts mehr passiert.
1.5 “As we tried to instill in each of our subjects over and over, WICKED is good.” Yeah, WICKED is good. But this book is BAD. Actually, WORST!Ridiculous plot. Bad ending/closure. Stupid main character. Unnecessary deaths. Emotionless. Ladies and gentlemen, The Death Cure.Let's be honest here. I am so curious about this trilogy because well, I find it interesting in the first place, but I end up being disappointed and frustrated. After The Maze Runner, the sequels went down drastically. I found
But this book is BAD.
Actually, WORST!Ridiculous plot.
Stupid main character.
Ladies and gentlemen, The Death Cure.Let's be honest here.
I found the plot appalling and ridiculous.
Or most probably, I have the Flare and it's eating my brain that I can't comprehend this book.
Duh.Thomas is stupid.
Fuck you, Thomas!If you thought The Scorch Trials is so random, think again.
The Death Cure is the random-est of all.
They are really more like random throws to make the story line relevant and fascinating.Don't get me started with character development because there is none.
I knew going into The Death Cure that the only way I would like this book was if it finally gave me the answers I was looking for.Well, as you can see from my rating, it didn't.(view spoiler)[But man.
And since the plot stopped making sense quite some time ago, maybe that's not the best strategy.And I think there was a theme running through the book of gray morality, there are no "right" choices, etc.
Not going to expand on that for obvious reasons, but I would have been disappointed if everything was wrapped up with a cute little bow.Thinking back, that was Dashner's (and the trilogy's) greatest strength.
Speechless!The Maze Runner was the first survival-dystopian book I've ever read and I can't express the pulse-pounding rush I get from this series and what brought other book of this genre come to life in my world.
The Hunger Games, Divergent, Legend...it all started with James Dashner and I'll forever be grateful for his ingenious story telling that is 100% pure adrenaline.
After all that tragic, all that pain and all that torture (for characters and readers alike) the final answer was indeed right before our eyes...and yet, I've never once, during this entire series thought about it.
So you know that Thomas, the main character, and his best friend Teresa, have 1) secrets about their past that tie into WICKED, meaning that they worked for WICKED and helped design the program and experiments, etc and 2) have had all of their memories of those secrets, their roles as mentioned above, and the rest of their pasts, wiped.
No-Memory Thomas doesn't trust WICKED, and wants to get away from them and stop them from experimenting on people...
Another series finished for this year, #winningThe Death CureUmmm, where to begin?This series was such a fast paced, roller coaster filled with amazing twists and turns that kept me on the edge of my seat, and short of breath most of the time! hahaI loved that the chapters were short and generally left on cliff-hangers!I think the first book is still my favourite, but the action in all 3 books never lacked, amazing series, and I highly recommend it! Even if you're kind of resistant like I was! :)
That saving you was worth losing what we might’ve had." -- Teresa, (chapter 56, The Scorch Trial)I had a hard time getting into The Maze Runner.
I'm hoping that she'll be the same smart and strong Teresa that I knew from The Maze Runner.I would also like to keep an eye on Thomas.
He's been through a lot of things and I like to think that I understand his character.
I just hope that he makes it through the end and become the same Thomas in the Maze Runner, just smarter, stronger and ready for anything.Other characters that I'm looking forward to read again are Minho and...
As a stand alone book it may have been 3 stars.But this is the final book of a series so it should bring things to a close with a bang. This did not.(view spoiler)[It was just a confused jumble of scenes with no continuity and no real closure. You figure that all the mysteries of the first couple of books will be solved or explained. They were not.Every element of this series is the Polar Bear from the TV series Lost - weird and suddenly there, but never explained. (hide spoiler)]As a whole, a m
As a stand alone book it may have been 3 stars.But this is the final book of a series so it should bring things to a close with a bang.
This did not.(view spoiler)[It was just a confused jumble of scenes with no continuity and no real closure.
You figure that all the mysteries of the first couple of books will be solved or explained.
They were not.Every element of this series is the Polar Bear from the TV series Lost - weird and suddenly there, but never explained.
(hide spoiler)]As a whole, a mediocre series with a pretty decent middle, but a flat and disjointed resolution.
In the final book of the Maze Runner trilogy, Thomas, Newt, Minho, Brenda, and Jorge escape from WICKED and head to Denver only to find that the Flare has spread even into the “safe” cities and Immunes are being gathered up and sold to WICKED.
After being caught by Right Arm, Thomas willingly heads back to WICKED headquarters to try to help take down WICKED for good.The Death Cure is the best of the three main Maze Runner books.
In some places the writing is not very good, but the twists, turns, and surprises totally make up for it.
This book really made reading the whole trilogy worth it.
Over the top action, explosions, deaths - it was hard to care after a while and after 3 books of it, it was too much.
I was going to take a break between books, but just wanted to finish it.
I would have liked to see Thomas and his friends discover more about Wicked and learn what was going on with the trials for Wicked instead of being told everything.
If you've come this far, then you need to finish the series, but compared to book 1, which was amazing, this is a laundry list of actions that have no forward movement as far as plot and character development.
(hide spoiler)] Of course we're missing a lot of characters who died in earlier books but we still have: Thomas (duh), Teresa, Minho, Newt, and Brenda.
I LOVE NEWT AND MINHO SO MUCH I COULD SCREAM.
And (view spoiler)[ I new Newt would die, but it HURT SO BAD that he wanted Thomas to kill him.
I felt Thomas/Minho/Newt were pretty much on equal friendship ground.
I think it proved that, all along, no matter how horrible Teresa's decisions were...at the end of the day she loved Thomas and wanted things to be better.
Sure each individual idea is fun and exciting and imaginative....but I think it was all a bit over the top...In the end it turns out that 200 people who weren't even part of the Trials just waltz through a magic screen to paradise.
Nope, these weren't even the strongest individuals who had survived the Trials, they were people captured by the Right Hand, thrown into a room, then thrown into a maze, and then led by Thomas into a magical paradise where they can all reproduce...Trilogy fail.
There are certainly great moments within each book, but taken as a whole it just didn't work.
Book one got decent about halfway through, book two was alright, but book three was terrible.Honestly, I hope that someone gives the author some serious lessons in writing female characters and making male and female associations believable as throughout one of the biggest problems was his main characters relationships with his female characters.
I guess we won't know because it ended with him being ushered to the next place by a girl with a secret, a secret he was too dumb to ever guess or figure out because he just wanted to be a wimp with his head in the freaking sand.I really wanted to like the series because I loved the concept, I suppose this was why I trudged on.
