https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18007533-one-more-thing
I Love the Way This Guy's Mind Works.I'm hesitant to give any specifics because B.J. Novak relies on the element of surprise to carry these pieces.
The fun of reading the book is in being unaware of what new ways he will catch you off guard from one story to the next.
Short story collections rarely get five stars from me because each story varies so much in quality and subject.
But I was always eager to read the next one, and the next and the next, just to see where else Novak's nutty mind would take me.
So many stories packed into one book!Normally, I try to write a little blurb or two about each short story in a collection but I have to draw the line somewhere. There's like 50 of them in here and I need to hold onto whatever sanity I have left.  Here are the most memorable ones: The rematch -- Everyone knows the story of the tortoise and the hare, but not everyone knows about the aftermath. The hare was mocked relentlessly but swore that one day, there would be a rematch...Dark matter  -- An e
This girl gives the absolute best advice.All you have to do -- One guy in a red shirt has really figured out the dating game.The ambulance driver -- Torn between civic duty and a whimsical dream, one ambulance driver has a great and terrible decision.The impatient billionaire and the mirror for Earth -- Self explanatory from the title.
There was such a variety in the short stories - some were funny and sweet, some were over in less than five minutes and some didn't seem quite right (like the heaven one).
The inter-connectedness of the stories: brilliant.
The juxtaposing of two opposing sides to end a story - both of which make sense: brilliant.
(Some risks are worth taking.)When people type "lol" these days, I can rarely picture people laughing out loud.
That picture of a cat is making you laugh out loud?
"Laugh out loud funny" has become a cliche, which sucks...
because I was literally laughing out loud through a lot of this book.
Either they just read One More Thing, or one of the authors is secretly B.J. Novak.
Some of these stories read like the response to a bad creative writing prompt.
I get that part of humor writing is twisting the knife, giving stories an unexpected turn right at the end, something surprising and unpredictable.
I'd read a celebrity-centric anecdotal collection of short stories (see Is Everyone Hanging Out Without Me?) any day over this pretentious, pseudo-intellectual drivel.Of the 64 stories included in this volume, I think I liked a whopping two of them.
Each of these are "the one about the [insert unusual idea]." It's a problem because his stories aren't stories, they're concepts.
If I could give this book zero stars I would. Obviously I'm missing what a lot of other people are getting with this. Somebody, please tell me what's funny here?? I get that he sees himself as a more elevated "intellectual" humorist, and while a few if his ideas do have potential for hilarious insight, he never got past the idea, for me. At a certain point I was saying to myself, "Come on, there are so many funny places to go with this." But he didn't. And I didn't laugh once, out loud or otherwise.

This story is a lot more fun if you mentally cast Mindy Kaling as Julie - in fact, I'm ashamed to admit that I spent a lot of the book searching for evidence that proves my long-standing theory that Novak and Kaling are soulmates and need to get married yesterday (in response to the question of whether it's creepy to ship real people: yes, yes it is).
3.5I had like 20 pages of this left and decided to just finish it because I know restore me is about to take over my life lol.I went into this thinking it would be a memoir, but it's actually a collection of short/satirical/witty/clever short stories.
A lot of them interconnected, surprisingly.
I enjoyed the majority of them, but there were some longer ones that just seemed to go on too long.
I tried listening to this on audio, but the jokes were lost on me when I tried it that way, so I wouldn't recommend it.
But I do love how creative this entire thing is!
Most of his prose and dialogue are like the average American realistic novel: flat, workmanlike, lacking imagination or character.It’s not that Novak himself lacks an imagination.
It’s a good first effort.On a different note, I’d like to respond to the book’s final piece, a satire about a fraudulent literary translator.
The important differences between translations are at the macro level.Novak also suggests that literary translation is a linguistic act, that a fraudulent American translator is fraudulent with respect to his knowledge of foreign languages, and therefore might do to an English-language classic what he’s done to foreign-language classics.
One More Thing about this book...I'll cut right to the chase.
One More Thing simply isn't very good.
The weird thing is that it's not because B.J. Novak is (what some people may think inherently) a bad writer.
It's his apparent love for vignettes that scream 'laugh at me' when there's nothing funny in there.
That isn't to say that it is wholly unlikable because there are stories that I loved.
It's roughly 300 pages and would be a lot better at a little over 100.
Which it could be, but it could be a hell of a lot better too.
Either I am not smart enough to see how great this book is or it was not good. I'm leaning towards "not good", but that sounds smug. This book pissed me off while I was reading it and it has pissed me off more after I finished because I can't stop wondering why people love it.
3.5 stars B.J. Novak, the author of this collection of short stories, anecdotes, and random thoughts is probably best known for playing Ryan Howard on the popular TV series "The Office." He was also a writer and executive producer on the show and has appeared in a number of Hollywood movies.
B.J. Novak as Ryan Howard in 'The Office'Most of the stories in the collection are humorous and some are thought-provoking.
After a Frank Sinatra concert, the duo finally get to see hubby's elusive Grandma - who has better things to do in Heaven than visit with relatives.In the story "Kellogg's", a young boy wins a $100,000 prize in a box of sugary name-brand cereal that's forbidden in his home.
Irreverent, inane, frequently laugh out loud funny, yet often so true they are sad, these stories are superior.
My favorites of the bunchThe RematchThe Something by John GrishamThe Man Who Invented the Calendar Kellogg's (Or, The Last Wholesome Fantasy of the Middle-School Boy)To summarize these might spoil some of the pleasure of discovering the creativity in these pages.
I've never watched it but if it has half the inventiveness of One More Thing I might truly be missing something.
One story that pays tribute to a singer you'll all recognize rang true with my feelings about the cost of celebrity and touched me with its outcome.
And really…hmmmmm…really…*YAWNS*Anyway, the only things I could really think were: "Wow, Novak is a pretentious guy who thinks he is oh, so smart and clever and witty and intelligent with this smart-aleck humor" and "Maybe this is the proof I really am a robot".
Oh, and I wonder how good of a pillow my keyboard would make.Excuse me, I need a nap.Discussion Question Answer:No, I did not think the book was funny.
Weird as hell... and not necessarily in a good way.I have no idea what to make of this one. B.J. Novak tried very hard to be creative and funny, with creative, um, certainly being the key word. Some stories were amusing in a way, but most were just odd. I didn't laugh, not once, and I think I was supposed to laugh. Maybe?If you are interested in a collection of random thoughts in short story form, narrated by a series of "The Office" alums, then give it a shot. Just keep your expectations to a minimum.
Not at all what you expect given the "I am a funny famous person I guess I'll write a book of stories that are pretty much all about me" trend right now.People are going to disagree about this a lot, I think.
I had no idea Novak was capable of such good writing but when he chooses to ditch the traditional and speak directly to the Twitter generation it's really going to piss off purists.
I think it's much more interesting how palatable he makes reading so many bits and stories that point out your own hypocrisy, first world privilege and mortality.
I’m calling it: best book of short stories, 2014.
Homework assignments for kids everywhere, 2078.
BJ Novak Day is a nationally recognized holiday (and the day kids look forward to because they don’t have to go to school and can stay home and read One More Thing), 2095.
But enough about how great kids are going to have it in 60+ years from now.
This book is seriously the best I’ve read this year.
It comes out in February, so I can’t tell you to go buy it and read it all tonight, but as soon as you can, you should.(Full review here: http://onthedl.ca/blog/default/view/52/)
There are sixty-ish stories in this book, varying greatly in tone, subject matter, and length.My favorites include:Julie and the WarlordSophia (the sex robot who falls in love)The Beautiful Girl in the Bookstore (one of the shortest stories, with my favorite line - "She loved him, but she never quite got over the suspicion that she was just his favorite thing in the bookstore.")ClosureI can't recommend the audio highly enough.
They bring the stories to life, especially Lena's performance in Julie and the Warlord.
There are a few instances when the reader feels the story is just beginning to propel but it instead ends quickly as though Novak wanted to continue but was reminded that this isn’t a full-length novel.
For those readers who enjoy a dose of surrealism in short stories, Novak delivers with whimsy but not to the point where the narrative feels ‘fake’ or unnatural.
Make sure to read these!“One More Thing” may not be the world’s best collection of short stories but is a fresh and unique voice which is relatable and yet thought-provoking.
“One More Thing” is 100% recommended for Novak fans and also for those readers who enjoy short stories appealing to a modern generation.
One of the most irritating books I've read in a while. In part this is because the author is clearly an intelligent, think-outside-the-box fellow with a lot of good ideas. I just found the majority of these stories unstructured and smarmy, with lots of punchlines but very little payoff. What DOES excite my admiration is his use of dialogue, which is very natural. So: a better screenwriter than a story-scribbler, perhaps; I confess I've never seen an episode of "The Office."
I love BJ Novak and the shows he has starred in or been a writer for. So of course I thought I would love this book. It's really well-written. But I found it a little boring. I didn't find it very funny or entertaining. I can't figure out what I'm missing that everyone else seemed to love. I think maybe I'm just not a fan of short stories.
This book was entertaining! It was full of short stories that had nothing to do with each other. Some of the stories I really enjoyed, others I didn't. The first couple stories weren't good, so it took me a while to get into this book.I chose to read this book because the author was in the TV show The Office and I really enjoyed him :)
DNF. Too wordy
(PSA: this description is going to get a bit messy, but if you read it you’ll come back and say YES ALL THE THINGS ARE TRUE.)Novak’s collection seems random and disjointed, but effortlessly flows and carries along connective threads and phrases from a story at the beginning to a few words at the end that will leave you feeling whole when you close the cover.
It was everything and nothing, it touched a nerve in my core fundamental ideas while dissolving into nonsense a few pages later.His intelligence, depth of feeling, and quirky weirdness radiates from each page, and I want to be his best friend.
One of the best books I’ve read in the past few years.
I was disappointed by these stories...I wanted to like them more than I did. Some of the premises were really fun and fantastic, so full of promise, but they tended to lose momentum and peter out by the end. They often felt incomplete and pointless. The endings were often super gimmicky (don't get me started on the "discussion questions" at the end of a few). Some of the stories just felt like comedy bits--like jokes with punchlines. Overall, not my cup of tea.
I probably enjoyed this 4 stars but I started to resent it at the end for being short stories. Stupid stories.
Indeed, if you had told me even at the halfway point that I would be giving the book four stars, I would have been astounded.But, I had to admit as I read more and more that the stories I did enjoy were very moving, diverting, engaging, or amusing indeed.
But the problem is that even these collections have to be 'novel-length.' You won't find novellas published singly by anyone who isn't Stephen King these days.
This collection would have been a sublime and powerful novella-length work that I would have gladly given five stars to.
Ever since the episode of The Office when BJ Novak, playing temp-turned-executive Ryan Howard, said these words: “I'm not saying I had a meteoric rise.
Now that The Office has run its course, Novak has released a collection of short stories, a new outlet for his sly wit.
If you enjoyed The Office and its occasionally cringeworthy awkward moments, you'll probably be on board with Novak's brand of humor.I've said before that short stories can be a nice break if you're used to reading longer works, and this book in particular is good for that because of the lightness of tone.
The danger with short stories collections is that the ratio of hit/misses must be extremely high in order to avoid disappointment, or, in the case of my reaction to this book, a general lack of enthusiasm for it.
Though I chuckled a few times, none of the stories made me laugh, which to me means that the author missed the mark.
These two stories, which also happen to be two of the longer ones, are perfect examples of the way Novak can make you think and travel with his characters.This isn't to say this book as a whole is a miss.
Some are like random thoughts of the author.
Many times I laughed.
I probably should have reread it, but I didn’t, so I remain ignorant about the humor in that one.
Overall I loved this book.
( I loved his view of what heaven was like.
I never would have thought of that.)Constructive Criticism (really good scene)Kellogg’s (surprising and a good story)Chris Hansen at the Justin Bieber ConcertThe Something by John GrishamRithmeticBingoThe World’s Biggest Rip-OffDiscussion Questions (I was laughing during his asking the questions.)AUDIOBOOK NARRATORS:B.J. Novak narrated most of the book.
Setting: contemporary thoughts and stories.
Book copyright: 2014.
Genre: humorous essays.
