https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53498.Love_That_Dog
I don’t want toBecause boysDon’t write poetry.Girls do.First page, first poem.
Phrases like: ‘and jumping on me his shaggy straggly paws on my chest like he was trying to hug the inside right out of me’Poems, PO-EMS.
They look easy but try putting a whole bunch of words in short sentences and make them make someone else feel something.
I couldn’t do itEven this attempt Is lame.But, I was lucky to know a poet, and was lucky to read his words.
How do you feel?’ It takes an fierce will and a tremendous heart to be a poet.
I like how Jack and his dad adopt a dog from a shelter/dog pound. Jack and his dog both had a great time together. It's really heartbreaking when his dog died and Jack no longer wants to have another pet because of the trauma he got from losing one. The short and bittersweet poem he wrote, in the end, is like a memorial for his dog.
This book is great for reluctant young readers.initially, I got Love That Dog for my kids but it's one of those books that grow on you and before long, we were all reading and enjoying the little boy's humour and his growing confidence in copying other poets work and writing his own poetry.The Red Wheelbarrow by William Carlos Williamsso much dependsupona red wheelbarrowglazed with rainwaterbeside the whitechickens.The little boy's attempt..."Do you promise not to read it out loud?
THE REVIEWWhy this book?My cousin wanted to reminisceWhat I thoughtMy Cousin actually read it to me. She used to read this to her baby girl who died of Cancer when she was 3. Today she just wanted to do something that reminded her of Anna. It was a a really cute book and I know why Anna loved it so much.
One of my all time favorites -- the SWEETEST little story written in journal format as a little boy learns to love poetry with the help of his teacher. It is cleverly written and fun to read. A good read-a-loud with your kids. warning -- you might cry!
A very very short book full of simple poems written from a 7 y/o's POV.
The poems were short but beautiful.
Such simple poems can also have deeper meanings.
For me, a few poems still lingered on me after finishing it.Jack, the MC, told a story of his relationship with his dog in this book, which was really sweet.
He attempted to share his story through a series of poems.
He was inspired to write poems after reading one by William Carlos Williams.I've included some simple poems from the book down below: I don’t want toBecause boysDon’t write poetry.Girls do.
More reviews at MrsReaderPants.I don’t get itWhy this book is so belovedBut then I read some reviewsAnd tried to write a poemMyselfAnd while I still don’t really get the appealI almost cried When the sweet dog died.So I guess that’s Something.I read it in about 20 minutes.Which is great Because I’m 10 books behindAnd my students are like“Gosh, Mrs. Collazo,You are really behind on your 2018 Reading Challenge.”So this makes book #9.Out of 100.That’s most definitelySomething.And I can see whyTeachers use it to teachPoetry.
It made me want to write a poem, too.I may even use it myself.
This was a very quick read even for poems. But it could invoke so much emotion. It also ended up tying things that made no sense. This made it my favorite read of a poem book so far.
Love that dog was a great poetry book. It would be a good poetry read for people who don't read poetry a lot or don't like poetry because it has an easy concept. It was easy to follow along with and it was a great read for me. I normally don't like poetry book and I didn't expect to enjoy this book as much as I did. The story to this book was very simple but it was fun to follow along with and was easy to keep track of.
This is a second read-through of an entertaining and educational little book for children about writing poetry. It’s set in an elementary school classroom and begins with Jack writing a complaining note to his teacher that “boys / don’t write poetry. / / Girls do.” But, of course, it is no surprise that this boy will write poetry and at least some of it will be about a much-loved dog. Apart from the relatively thin storyline, this book makes its point about the power of poetry (and of persisten
In addition to figuring out what imagery might be, Jack also learns to listen to the rhythms of poetry as he makes up a poem about a blue car while “some of the tiger sounds [of Blake’s “The Tiger”] / are still in my ears / like drums / beat-beat-beating.” From Arnold Adoff’s “Street Music” Jack learns to use spacing and fonts to create effects; from S.
And Jack finally does come to terms with the death of his dog Sky by writing a poem.
And after Meyers’ visit, Jack writes another poem about Sky called "Love That Dog" inspired by, you guessed it, “Love That Boy.”
The development is subtle, starting with aversion (I don't want to because boys don't write poetry.
Girls do.), then copying of form, rhythm, meaningful lines from famous poets, finally first own authorship and proud signing of a poem: BY JACK!I love the fact that Jack's first poem has a secret meaning we can't grasp until he has told the story of his beloved dog at the end of the book.
It is amazing to be part of his experience of William Blake's beat in Tyger, Tyger, how he transforms the wild, fearful tiger of nature into a blue, speeding car, modern and urban but equally dangerous and unpredictable.ReadThisBook!
This was probably the worst book I have ever read. So sorry if you liked it and found it emotional or something, but it was honestly terrible. The only good part about it was that it was short so I didn't have to stick with it that long. My biggest problem with this book was that it was set up funny and I couldn't stand it. You might like it if you really like poetry.
I wasted 20 min of my life on this piece of garbage. Thanks Creech.
This book was, ok? I think. It definitely derived emotion in some parts, then in others it was kind of bland. Not saying it was bad or anything, just not a lot of flavor.
i am lovingreading this bookbecause it's writtenin free verseand i write like thattoo.i am reading itwith my cousinwho's in fifth gradefor hersummer readingand i thinki like itmore than she does.it's a funny, lovelybookabout poetryand i hopeall the childrenin the worldhave a teacherlike Miss Stretchberrywho makesthemfall in lovewithpoetry.ilovethisbook.
This was neither good story telling, nor good poetry writing. The poems mentioned, though, were great. (Robert Frost! Love him)
This was a book I read when I was in Elementary School. I forgot about how much I loved it!Update 11/11/16: still such a great book. I love reading it and it is super quick.xoxo,Bebe
I love love love this book! It was my favorite by Sharon Creech until she published  Heartbeat , and now I can't say which I like more. It is written entirely in free verse written in the school notebook of a boy who is a reluctant poetry pupil. The poetic form, believability of Jack (the main character), and the story he ultimately tells are simply smashing. This book would also be a great way to introduce young people to poetry; Jack's responses to a few well-known poems are written in his not
It is written entirely in free verse written in the school notebook of a boy who is a reluctant poetry pupil.
This book would also be a great way to introduce young people to poetry; Jack's responses to a few well-known poems are written in his notebook, and the text of the poems is included in the back of the book (The Red Wheelbarrow by William Carlos Williams, Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening and The Pasture by Robert Frost, part of The Tiger by William Blake, dog by Valerie Worth, Street Music by Arnold Adoff, The Apple by S.C. Rigg, and Love That Boy by Walter Dean Myers).
Review #3 - January 10, 2018I love poetry and I love this book.
(It also makes me cry every freaking time.) In my class, we look at one or two famous poems each week.
This year, before I read the book, I made sure we'd looked at every poem Creech mentions.
Great book of poetry and a sweet story to boot!
Review #2 - December 31, 2015Read it out loud to my fifth graders.
They didn't seem to love it as much as the fourth graders did.
(You can read the whole book in about 30 minutes.)Makes me cry.
I was completely unprepared for the emotional toll this lovely book had on me.
I had tears running down my face...
I giggled...
I held my breath...
This was an absolutely eye-opening reading experience for me.
I wish that I had had a Miss Stretchberry to teach me to love and write poetry as Jack does during this book.Since I didn't have that opportunity, it makes me want to learn to be a bit more like Miss S.
for my own students...
If you have any other books I should read to inspire this kind of teaching and writing, please share.Wow. Wow.
it was a super easy read although i wouldn't recommend it because it was not very interesting and it got really sad at the end.
I thought Love that Dog was a poetry book that I could tolerate.
It is about a boy named Jack who doesn't really think he is good at poetry and isn't for boys like him.
As the book goes on he figures out that he is actually ok at poetry just like his idol Mr. Walter Dean Myers.
Jack sees that he can write about his everyday things and turn it into poetry.
Like when he writes about he dog named Sky and is in Love with him, but everything comes to an end.
Overall Love that Dog is a good book to start off your career on reading poetry.
Usually when I think of poems, I think of deep meaning text that has a secret behind the words. I liked this book, but I dont think it made those expectations. However, it was still a great book that I recommend to most!
I am so happy Dr. Junko Yokota suggested this novel to read because it is one of her favorites.
This short novel is a weekly journal entry from the point of view of Jack, a young student, initially appalled at the suggestions to read, let alone, write a poem.
Jack found his favorite poet and grows into his "own" to help others write their own poetry.
This is a great read for fourth through sixth grades and feel everyone can be drawn in by Jack's poetic process.
When I young my reading teacher read this book to the class and I did not appreciate the story.
I thought it was a weird way for us to get into writing poetry.
I don't think my student understood the book or liked it as much as I did, but I found this to be a great read.The main character, Jack, hates poetry, but when his teacher, Ms. Stretchberry, won't stop giving her class poetry assignments Jack had to do them.
When Jack started writing poetry, he discovered that he was actually very good and had a lot to say.
Love this book
This book told the story of Jack and how he basically became a poet.
He wrote about his dog and how he "Love That Dog":), and it was just a cute story as he grows from not knowing anything about poetry.
He try different methods of poetry and how he loved this author and how he admired him.
Overall this was awesome and it remember me of my yellow lab that died a few years ago.
I would recommend this to anyone who want a quick, awesome read.
Love that book!
Love that book!
Oh my goodness!! I should have read this book sooner, I'm sorry Emily DeVore!! Its a super quick series of poems by a young boy who is inspired by Mr Walter Dean Myers. I laughed, I cried, it was all so wonderful! And you know, I've never thought about it but Mr Robert Frost maybe did have too much time on his hands with all those miles to go, HA HA!!
I read this book in one sitting. It was such an easy, sweet read. It was really fun and adorable. There's not really much to say about it other than it was really good.
This book was so sad!! I felt like the set up was really weird but I love the underlying message.
