https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/168813.Madrigals_Magic_Key_to_Spanish
Have you ever read a language book written by someone as if he is tutoring you face to face and can even read your mind before you even ask?
I’m intrigued by her approach as I could apply it to other things/ languages I’m learning.
Learning Spanish doesn’t seem optional in America but I see it as a must, especially if I can.
I feel bad when I come in contact with a Spanish-speaking person and he says “no English”, and I rebuke myself, “Ibrahim, come on!
Through it I feel like I have a better grip on the language.
After reading this book, you will have a decent working knowledge of Spanish grammar and vocabulary.This is a book I will probably reference frequently.
(Of course we also need some type of audio instruction -- but that is beyond the scope of this review.)This has nothing to do with the book content but ...
She was destined to be an author of some sort!Follow up October 2014I read the Kindle version of this book the second time around.
I still have a ways to go before my Spanish reading is at a workable level but my knowledge has improved and I have a sense of the areas I need to review.
The best spanish learning book I’ve found.
The only book I’ve come across that I would absolutely recommend.
(Though I would also recommend another called Breaking Out of Beginner Spanish for people in the more intermediate levels.)A few things I wish were changed and both are based on the fact that this is a relatively pretty old book.
1. Updating some of the vocabulary.
No one sends cables anymore.
The conjugations for it are literally excluded the entire book until the final chapter.
Now a days the informal is used with people almost as soon as you’ve become even some what acquainted.
I've been through this book before and learned a lot.
However, my old brain refuses to learn a new language.
On the other hand, I refuse to let my brain rule over me.
The second times through this book, I became conversant for the first time.
Although I was hesitant, I could carry on a bit of conversation.
This time through, I'm amazed at how easy it is.
Plus, I'm learning the concepts at a different level.
I've tried all sorts of methods from Power Glide, to Learnables, to Rosetta Stone and more.
Madrigal's classic Spanish text, although very dense reading, is still up-to-date; despite the fact that we don't send many cables anymore, we still talk about most of the same things.
The chapters repeat the type of exercise with each new added skill, part of speech, or verb tense introduced, and gradually the simple sentences lead to in-depth conversations.
I like that she begins with the preterite tense and introduces the present much later.
It's packed with information and presented in a somewhat different way than modern language guides, so if you're feeling a bit stuck, her explanations and examples may help you to see things more clearly.
estoy aprendiendo la idioma por seis semanas y quierendo esto libro.¡La explicaciones de gramática y de vocabulario no son complicado, pero son intuitivo y practical, para todos las situaciones contidianas, o a veces leer las noticias!(*sí, yo sé que necesito practicar mas)
It seemed to have some cross-over with the Michel Thomas course in it’s approach, guiding the reader on how to form Spanish words from English words, and generally trying to simplify things to make it as easy to understand and remember as could be done.The information conjugating for the various tenses was very useful to me, and much needed.
I guess this is generally a problem with text books, so I recommend listening to audio courses like Michel Thomas and Pimsleur concurrently, as well as DuoLingo and Memrise, from which you can hear the correct Spanish pronunciations and practice them yourself.
Magic key to SpanishThis has to be one of the best books that is on the market for learning Spanish that I have found. I have had several copies of the paperback but I would loan them out to never see them again and now with the ebook version I know that I will not have that problem again. Now it is time to brush up with my Spanish.
I used this and Pimsleur Vol 1 to 3 to get up to an intermediate level in Spanish in a couple months.I wish there was a book like this for French /German/Italian
Exceptional resource and learning tool... I wish there was one for Portuguese too!
I first started studying Spanish using this book in the mid 50s.
It would be nice if someone were to do and updated edition including recordings.I continued my studies of Spanish in high school and college.
I spent my junior year of college at the Inter American University of Puerto Rico in San Germán, PR.
I taught Spanish for 9 year at Concordia Teachers College (now Concordia University), Seward, NE.
Oh, I forgot, I worked for a year as a translator for the Spanish language daily newspaper of Los Angeles, LA OPINIÓN.
As a student of the Spanish language I am constantly looking for quick books that can help me refresh my memory within this language I have studied for quite some time.
Although there is some benefit to a book like this, I believe that the benefit is based on where you are in your practice of the Spanish language.
As someone who understands the basics and can speak decent "Spaglish" I unfortunately didn't find this book helpful.
It's the best book to start learning Spanish from the ground. It has both Grammar and vocabulary lessons with exercises at the back to check what one has learned.It will guide you on your Spanish journey.The writer interacts in this book with the readers in a way that it will feel like she is teaching you in the real place and time.I will recommend to anyone who is interested in learning Spanish from the dust.
It's...okay? Very dull compared to other sources I'm using right now. It's mostly lists of cognates. The grammar explanations are nice and helpful, but unfortunately they are buried between lots of very long lists of cognates. Also, the groupings of vocab words strike me as kind of random. What does the devil have to do with fruit salad, hmmm? Where is the logic?
A great spanish self-study book and it's been around for 60 years. Wish I had known about it in high school. Starts out with the 2500 spanish words you already know and then goes into the past tense right away, as that what we talk about the most. What we've done. Author is chatty and confidence building.
A great starting place for people who took classes in high school or college and want to actually learn Spanish later on. It's not going to be the silver bullet that it is purported to be on the back of the book, but is definitely a place to start.
Great approach to beginning Spanish. Teaches the tu form a little late into the book.
Trying to read this again. My grasp of language learning is tenuous. I have found this book better adapted to me than most.
great book for english speakers who want to learn a lot of spanish vocab
...a great make-Spanish-simpler book....
He aprendido mas de este libro que cualquier clase o leccion. Recomiendo.
Quick way to get the basics.
reading this to refresh my espanol. my teacher recommended it to me.
I found this book extremely helpful when I decided to learn Spanish as an adult. Her method of relating similar English and Spanish words worked with my visual style of learning.
Didn't actually finish.... >.< great learning resource
Amazing. So much more useful than any of my Spanish classes or countless other books I'd read. It really was like Magic.
