https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/973859.Patterns_of_Culture
Culture and Personality Paradigm:Ruth Benedict’s Patterns of Culture In her book Patterns of Culture Ruth Benedict presents ethnographic accounts of three unique cultures, the Pueblo (Zuni) Indians of the Southwest, the Dobu of eastern New Guinea and the Kwakiutl of the Pacific Northwest coast between Washington and British Columbia.
Benedict employs use of these cultures to demonstrate her theory of culture as “personality-writ-large.” The book starts out with two sections, largely theoretical; Benedict then presents her idea of cultural configurations (patterns) before moving on to compare the Apollonian Zuni and Dionysian Plains Indians, the paranoid Dobu, and the megalomaniacal Kwakiutls’ perspectives on marriage, family, resources, animism, and warfare/violence.
Probably the most interesting and compelling introduction to anthropology you could ever hope for. Ruth Benedict lays out some basic principles - that anyone who's ever wondered about the society they live in should read - backed up with explorations of three incredibly fascinating cultures. This is a very profluent book, so I feel I can safely recommend it to people who have never read non-fiction before. Patterns of Culture is a book that will change the way you see the world.
Society keeps an underclass to fill breeches in the higher ranks caused by war, pestilence, or natural disaster; but it also tries to keep the underclass at some manageable level through those same disasters (in addition to famine).
As we move from a dispersed (hunter-gathering) to more condensed (agriculture-industry-information) societies, the underclass is joined by primitives, farmers, and industrial workers who are no longer required.
Crowding primitives and agrarians into “reservations,” ghettos, and airless factories produces pestilence.
War exhausts not only your own underclass, but might free lebensraum for your survivors (so you don’t have to invite them home, where they might menace your daughters).
For any lovers of anthropology, this is one of the classic texts which fundamentally shaped the study of culture.
I was surprised actually by how relevant the first few chapters were.It is a beautiful read, and encompasses the rich, descriptive style of classic ethnography.
I highly, highly recommend this book - I was not expecting to enjoy it at first, but it remains to be one of the great classics, and is a guaranteed enjoyable read for any lover of culture studies.
Her description of three contrasting cultures illustrates very clearly that there are no fixed rules on which cultural traits dominate in different societies, and the impossibility of knowing whether these are culturally or biologically determined.
Cultures are also shown to privilege certain behaviors at the expense of what are considered abnormal behaviors of the individuals that don't fit this society.
It is argued that it is the natural tendency of the individual which will determine whether they will fit the dominant culture or be considered as an abnormal type.
I found the perspective of analysis interesting - Apollonian versus Dionysian cultures, but I would add that the basic philosophy and modus operandi of a culture can change over time.
If we regard western European culture it becomes obvious that our own cosmological outlook has changed a great deal, from Dionysian in Roman and even pre-Roman times to the rather more Apollonian that we have today.
Anyhow, I think it is an important and stimulating read that opens the mind to the kaleidoscopic world of possibilities that the human spirit has evolved to answer the fundamental questions of life.
I liked this book overall.
It talks about different cultures in three different parts of the world – the pueblos of new Mexico, the Dobu of Papua New Guinea and the Kwakuitl of Northwest America.
To be honest there were some very interesting bits in the middle when she talks about the three cultures but i found some of those bits a little boring.
The last 2 chapters is where she sums it all up and it all comes to life.
Definitely read those last 2 chapters.
Overall a very good book if a tad slow in places.
I think Benedict makes some interesting points.
She wants people to understand the idea of cultural relativity, which I think is an important idea.
We have to remember that every culture is different and people fit into their cultures and worlds differently.
Just because I am a white woman in the US doesn't mean I understand the experience of every white woman in the US.
We are all different and we fit into this world as an outsider to one culture but as a normal citizen of another culture.
Culture is a ever changing thing that I think is so interesting and will truly never be fully understood.
Eu gostei muito desse livro. A edição em pt-br só foi lançada ano passado, e um livro tão antigo! É importante porque traça uma discussão na relação entre indivíduo e sociedade, que para a autora não há conflito, ambos se relacionam muito bem e são interdependentes. Ela pontua três sociedades indígenas que ficam na Columbia Britânica nos EUA, discorrendo sobre eventos e costumes sociais em que mostra os indivíduos agindo e sendo formados pela cultura.
First read in 1960s for an anthropology class, and subsequently reread, being one of the few social science books that left a lasting impression.For a novel look at Salmon Culture social life, I recommend Houston's Eagle Song.Eagle Song: An Indian Saga Based on True Events
I remember this for the basic dichotomy of 'Apollonian' and 'Dionysian' cultures. I suspect Benedict chose the case studies she did because she felt they best represented polar forms of this dichotomy. Real societies, of course, aren't neatly cut in two--so she tended to exaggerate a bit betimes, probably.
I think all my texts from degree #1 were intriguing. But this is a straight text book and I suppose even I don't often pleasure read anthropology essays. However, I think this is the one that has the references to some of my favorite "Did you know somewhere in the world there are people who..." references from the BA days.
More well-known for developing culture and personality school of thought, in this book we could actually see Benedict's wider influences on anthropology.
Benedict begins the book with three solid chapters on theoretical discussion of the way we should see and understand culture.
Being a student of Franz Boas, Benedict takes a particularistic view on culture, seeing it is developed as an unique, local response to a problems encountered commonly by mankind.
Here Benedict already established that it is individual actions and thoughts that make up culture; a random set of unconscious, unintended action that leads to, in Sahlin's terms, "events".
Ruth Benedict's classic work on culture through individuals and the arc of human potentialities. "Social thinking at the present time [1934] has no more important task before it than that of taking adequate account of cultural relativity," she writes. The first chapters, re-reads from years ago, were a welcome reminder; the last one was a welcome surprise, as it touches on the arbitrariness of cultural "deviance" and resultant suffering. Skimmed the middle.
This book is unforgettable. I read it nearly 40 years ago and I still remember how she compared the two cultures, the one peaceful and quiet and the other aggressive and loud. I haven't read a lot of cultural anthropology but if most of the field was half as interesting as this book makes it, I would have been an expert by now.
A friend gave me Patterns of Culture because "you study anthropology, don't you?" I'm glad he didn't want it back. Patterns of Culture is an amazing read for anyone interested in ethnography, cultural anthropology/psychology/morality, language and a few other fields. Find a copy and give yourself a joyful afternoon's adventure.
I read this one as assigned reading for a history of social thought class my senior year in college. In it, the author, a noted anthropologist of the first half of the 20th century, compares and contrasts three very different cultures and how they impact the individuals living in each one.
Instructive on the arbitrariness of cultural norms - most of them don't even contribute to longevity or protection of the tribe, and nonconformers may be in great peril, for no important reason. Slow at first but it picks up with the description of Dobu and Kwaikiutl tribal practices.
Read for school. Had some good discussions about how in a modern perspective Benedict's narrative can be problematic, but this was a very enjoyable read. I'll be looking for her that book.
Through my time I haven't been able to help questioning the foundations that society and culture is built upon, and I believe this is because simply I just don't agree with many of the firm views of life, but also because the ideas of truth, fact, and certainty seem to be more fluid, in my experience, than the rock hard foundations they have been described as.
The multiple layers we have categorically for life have it go back and fourth between boundless and binding.
The boundless layers allowing us to bend the envelope of the binding ones.
Patterns of Culture is a seminal work in the field of Anthropology, written in 1936 by Ruth Benedict, the Columbia University Professor of Anthropology, student of Franz Boas and mentor of the famous anthropologist Margaret Mead.
In fact, Margaret Mead wrote the preface to Patterns of Culture.This book is a study of three diverse cultures - the Zuni indians of the American Southwest, another tribe of the Pacific Northwest and a people of the Pacific Islands of Micronesia.
Perhaps we can say that it is impossible as human beings to not judge each other.I would be interested to know if anthropology students still read this work and other early works in their field.
In her book Patterns of Culture, Ruth Benedict examines the concept of cultural relativity by examining three indigenous groups in different areas around the world.
However, within the confines of the book, it appears as though Benedict is looking at the margins of the culture area for patterns which are beyond the culture area norms.
It’s clear that Benedict is using the concepts of psychology and sociology to examine how and why cultures are formed and how in this particular time, one culture deviates from those surrounding it.
The reader often gets the impression that Benedict is criticizing her own culture for viewing others in a negative light.
In Patterns of Culture, renowned anthropologist Ruth Benedict reveals many wonderful ideas and examples of how humans as individuals and groups carve out the meanings and practices of their lives.
As well as demonstrating a robust method for understanding cultural phenomena within historical and social contexts, Benedict shows how the self and the social world are like two sides of the one coin, each shaping the other in an ongoing dynamic (as I argued in my thesis (2006), quoting Benedict liberally!).
Recommended to anyone interested in culture and the self.
Read for a Cultural Theory class, but as engrossing as if I had picked it up on my own. Benedict, an obvious student of Franz Boas, argues that all cultures could be traced back to a basic core principal, she calls them "intellectual mainsprings," which one can find embodied in a culture's many manifestations, like marriage customs, religion, trading partners-- a pattern if you will. She includes three short ethnographies which highlight some of her points, so there is a bit more application than a lot of cultural theory writing.
Me pareció un libro interesante para entender la evolución de los culturalistas norteamericanos, hacía un concepto de cultura más integral. Así como complementar mi conocimiento sobre el enfoque "socio-psicológico" de la antropología. Sin embargo, se me hizo muy evidente las problemáticas que trae el relativismo cultural de esta corriente. Asimismo, se logra ver la génesis del concepto de aculturación. Sin duda recomendable para entender esta corriente antropológica.
I've read bits and pieces of this before, but I finally had to read the entire thing for school. Benedict's writing style is very fluid and digestible and I found the book to be an easy read. Cultural relativism was crucial to the formation of anthropology as we know it and, therefore, this is an important piece for students to read; I find, however, that I'm way more interested in the much juicer theory that pops up much later down the road.
Another good read for anthropology, I really liked learning all kindsa wacky stuff different tribes do, bizarre nature of humans never ceases to amaze because normality is culturally defined and equally bizarre in every culture.
After schlepping it around for 40 years, I finally read it.Wish I'd done it earlier, but oh what a treat!The relativity of cultures had entered our legal system in LA: Parents from SE Asia "cup" their children in disease situations and are put in jail for it. Dear, dear.
A timeless, well written classic and Benedict's quintessential opus Patterns of Culture is quite dated nowadays but still a great insight into the minds of one of the great anthropologists of the 20th century and her theory of cultures.
this book does ethnography of 3 distinct groups of people, but it is very superficial and ethnographic data seems distorted by benedict's attempts to make each culture fit the pattern she picks for them. it is valuable as a historical account of american cultural relativism and benedict's method.
