https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/97153.Nancy_and_Plum
“It was Christmas Eve. Big snowflakes fluttered slowly through the air like white feathers and made all of the Heavenly Valley smooth and white and quiet and beautiful.” This was how young Betty MacDonald began the bedtime stories she shared with her sister about two orphans, Nancy (age 10) and Plum (age 8), who spent Christmas Eve in a barn (much like the baby Jesus).
MacDonald never forgot those stories, and many years and books later, she wrote a version that is a delightful classic for children called Nancy and Plum.The story has the right ingredients that make for a pleasing tale.
It was recommended to me last January by a friend who knew I was looking for more Christmas books, so I put off reading it until now, and I'm both sad and glad.
I mean, the beginning, where you find out how two little girls came to live at the almost cartoonishly awful Mrs. Monday's Boarding House, that would work.
But from there things would probably get more and more hyperbolically awful until the day was saved by the girls discovering magic powers or that everyone is a robot or that they are the heiresses to some Roald Dahl-esque candy factory.
This is my absolute favorite childhood book. It deals with so many amazing issues, but the best part is having two very different protagonists who both find their own way in the world. Plus the whole bad-guys-get-it-in-the-end is extremely satisfying. :)

Pretty standard orphans-at-cruel-school fare, nothing too horrific. The introduction mentioned that originally Nancy and plum represented the author and her sister in a series of adventurous stories she made up as a child. Here all the adventure is removed and a fairly realistic portrayal of rural school is left. I would have a preferred some wilder action, personally, which is I guess why I prefer The Wolves of Willoughby Chase.
One of my very favorite books as a kid. Orphans at a boarding home run by the cruel Mrs. Monday, Nancy and Plum have to dress in worn clothes and eat oatmeal and prunes. They dream of escaping the boarding home and are helped by their teacher and the town librarian when they run away. Great descriptions of baking potatoes in a fire, sleeping in a haystack, eating apples, and the joys of having a china doll with real hair, many dresses, a fur coat, and little white gloves.
The novel includes an afterword by former children’s laureate Jacqueline Wilson, who says that it is her favourite work for younger readers, and charming new illustrations by Catharina Baltas.Nancy and Plum, which was first published in 1952, begins on Christmas Eve. MacDonald sets the scene immediately: ‘Big snowflakes fluttered slowly through the air like white feathers and made all of Heavenly Valley smoth and white and quiet and beautiful.
First finished read aloud of 2018!! Which is exciting! Even more exciting than the book was unfortunately. This book held the kids attention well enough I suppose but never got all that interesting.
Before there was Lemony Snicket and his Series of Unfortunate Events, there was Betty McDonald's Nancy and Plum. A gem of comic storytelling, this is one of those books you show down on reading as you pass the halfway mark, because you just don't want it to end. A thorough delight!
This is a nostalgic children's Christmas story by renown author Betty MacDonald of theMrs. Piggle-Wigglefame.
Vividly, the clever magic of Mrs. Pigglewiggle is one of my earliest childhood memories of a book that I just loved.
I have no idea how old I was when I read this and I wish I had been introduced to this Christmas story at that time.
Nancy and Plum are two young orphans in a story very similar to Annie of the musical fame.
They, too, are orphans and kept in an orphanage with a wicked and horrid caregiver.
After finishing this book, I immediately sent it to a nine year old granddaughter.
We've all had days when we felt like abandoned, unloved orphans.
When we wished someone would swoop down and take us away from it all--or that we could run away from our lives into a new, wonderful world.
For days like that, this is the ultimate comfort-read.
The author must have read and loved A Little Princess as much as I did.
It all feels very Victorian until you run into references to cars and airplanes.
I had to chuckle when the librarian says she has read "over a thousand books." I've done that, just since I joined GR, and that wasn't so very long ago.
This is a great story for those conservative parents who don't want their kids to be reading books with sex and drugs and violence. Also for girls who loved Sara Crewe. After their parents are killed, two little girls are sent to live at a horrible boarding school run by the cruel and abusive Miss Monday. How the manage to rescue themselves makes a quick but sweet read.
This was my first time reading "Nancy and Plum" since my third grade teacher read it aloud to us after recess each day in 1994. I loved it then, and now I can understand why: there are detailed descriptions of EVERYTHING and the simplistic story lines are filled with adventure and exaggerated characters, most of whom are either good or evil. Perfect fodder for a child's imagination.
I can't remember when I read this first - when I was 10 or 11, probably. I do clearly remembering loving it to death, and it being the perfect wintry book to snuggle up with. A really charming classic. :)
I found this book at the library and thought I'd give it a chance...it's a children's book and I had a lot of fun reading it. I didn't want the story to end and wished there was a part 2 and 3 etc..etc..
Wonderfully descriptive and with little touches of Betty MacDonald’s classic humor, this is a cozy and happy read for children and adults!
One of the best books I've ever read. :)
One of my favorites that I've read to the kids! They loved it, too. Great for post-Christmas, had that Christmas-y, winter feel to it. Wish there were more Nancy and Plum books!
Nancy and Plum tells the story of two young children, orphaned when their parents are killed in an accident, who are placed in the care of their rich Uncle John.
As he has little time for children, Uncle John leaves the girls in the care of Mrs. Monday, a harsh and greedy woman who owns a boarding house.
The book follows the girls' adventures as they navigate life in the boarding home with Mrs. Monday and her spoiled niece, Marybelle.This book is such a sweet, straightforward read.
This is quite a different story from all the Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle books, but just as charming. This one also bears more than a passing resemblance to Burnett’s “ A Little Princess,” but is more down-home and American in character. I (appropriately) despised Miss Monday while rooting for Nancy, Plum, and the other kids. It’s always satisfying to see bad behavior punished and the ill-used protagonists find their dreams coming true at long last. It was also nice to read the book during the Christmas season, seeing how the story opens and ends at Christmas. Lovely book.
Although the story and subject and writing are a bit old-fashioned, this is a very enjoyable book. The simplicity of the story, 2 orphan girls in a home run by an evil matron, and the pleasure of simple things we so take for granted is really wonderful at this time of year when we all get to feeling overloaded with the minutiae of life and to experience again the pleasures of childish things and a simple existence and good people doing the right thing.
3.5 stars as a read-aloud. It would likely be less clunky to read silently. The handling of dialogue was especially tedious when read out loud: Nancy said, “....”. Plum said, “...”. Over and over again. And really too much detailed description at times when the plot just needed to move forward. MacDonald was good at plot and characters but needed a better editor.
I picked this up for a reading challenge book that had my name in the title :)First published in 1952, it holds up quite well. The writing is engaging enough, the story and characters interesting. There is some meanness from one of our main characters, but I guess it's better than making the children too perfect.
My favorite line in the book: “They were good and kind however, and oftentimes goodness and kindness cast a glow over people that passes very well for beauty.” I was so happy for Nancy and Plum; I wanted the world for them! And Mr. and Mrs. Campbell are the sweetest couple— I want to be like them. A wonderful Christmas read-aloud that teaches a great lesson of being selfless.
This was a sweet book about a scrappy pair of orphans who try to make the best of their bad situation. Definitely a feel-good book that begins and ends at Christmas and will help you appreciate the little things in life.
Would have like this story more if I hadn't read it aloud. Most of the dialogue was "Nancy said...", Plum said..." which got very monotonous so I just read the dialogue without that. Otherwise a cute story.
Dieses Buch hat mich durch meine Kindheit begleitet. Ich kann gar nicht zählen, wie oft ich es gelesen habe. Obwohl es schon zu meiner Zeit nicht mehr so neu war, hat auch meine Tochter es später noch in ihr Herz geschlossen. Zeitlos wie Astrid Lindgren. Man fühlt sich nach der Lektüre einfach gut.
One of my all-time favorite books.
The perfect Christmas book!
LoveMy fourth grade teacher, in Oregon was reading this to the class. Before I got to hear the end, we moved to Idaho. 40+ I finally found the book and finally got to read and reread the entire story.
