https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12357.Take_the_Cannoli
vowell is all, "i am part native american, so i wanted to travel the trail of tears like my ancestors did." i mean, right off the bat, the whole concept was grating on me in a way i just can't quote explain.
when the tribe failed to meet the deadline set down in the treaty (because the overwhelming majority of the tribe was totally opposed to the treaty), they were forced into stockades & set out on the six-month march along the trail of tears, which vowell drove with her sister, stopping at indian- & jackson-themed landmarks along the way.
not that the trail of tears wasn't a barbaric thing, but i couldn't help but feel that some of vowell's rage was a little bit appropriative.
To me, I really enjoy her observations, and sometimes this book is just plain fun, and sometimes it tries to make a point- whether it is heavy like the Trail of Tears piece or at least gets stuck in your mind like the questions of suffering for art brought by the Chelsea Hotel piece.I suspect most people who would be interested in Vowell likely have their minds made up about her, and she wears her politics on her sleeve, so any cursory reading of her reviews will show that her rating dips among those who might disagree with her politically.Otherwise, I certainly recommend it.
Plus, in my mind, I can hear Vowell as she must have sounded on This American Life, which is where most of these began.
Great stuff, perhaps especially on the Trail of Tears and how many different emotions that trip spawned.So much humor, though.On the one hand, I think Vowell would be an awesome friend to hang with, laughing at Choo-Choo and working it into every comment because of the way it sounds ("spleen" is a personal fave) on the other, she would someday drag me along on the least appealing road trip ever.
I realized reading this that I am familiar with this author from NPR's This American LifeSome of the essays captured my imagination, some did not.
All in all it was a diverting read from the all that is occupying my time around her otherwise.
Vowell tackles subjects such as identity, politics, religion, art, and history with a biting humor.
Vowell has an irresistible voice -- caustic and sympathetic, insightful and double-edged -- that has attracted a loyal following for her magazine writing and radio monologues on This American Life.
"Just as our blood will never be pure, the Trail of Tears will never make sense." :'( "Ixnay on the My Way" followed -- a short essay about Frank Sinatra's death and songs.Then the final section, Mix Tapes, mostly seemed to me to again be about Sarah's experiences with certain aspects of American culture (like driving and goths).As I'm a fan of Sarah Vowell's writing, there were several lines in this book that made me laugh.
All in all, Take the Cannoli is a very uneven collection of stories, which comes with the territory with a writer like Vowell.
Frank Sinatra???One of the most moving of her stories is "Take the Cannoli" (from which the book also takes its title) where she talks about her guilty, compulsive watching of The Godfather in her college years, as she struggles with her loss of religious faith and seeks comfort in the moral certainties of Sicilian mafia family values.
Take the cannoli." I think that's supposed to encapsulate a philosophy of life.In "The End is Near, Nearer, Nearest", she talks about growing up with religion, Oklahoma-style: fire and brimstone, Armageddon and sin.
Of course, she must explain how it’s a TOTAL ACCIDENT that she ended up there (because she is actually above Disney World), makes fun of pretty much everything (like, the fact that the waiters dressed in Revolutionary War-Era clothes have to wear black sneakers?
It’s basically a retirement community.) All I could think of is “thank God I don’t have to go to Disney world with you, or anywhere for that matter.” In fact, Vowell came off as pretty pretentious and un-fun throughout the entire book.
So please, someone who has read it that is NOT a Disney nerd: is she right, is this book okay?
From shooting off cannons, learning to make a non sentimental mix tapes, to the bizarre not so wonderful world of Disney, learning to drive with Ira Glass, to going Goth for a night, to her obsession with The Godfather, she doesn't hold back and I love her for it.
When Sarah visits the Nashville home of Andrew Jackson who went against his word and caused so many to die so long ago, Sarah cannot forgive him.
I love that Vowell, while laying hard into the evils and arrogance of a country that took away the land of the Cherokees, acknowledges her part in the America that caused so many to die.
Registered on Bookcrossing : http://www.bookcrossing.com/journal/1...This is a fun bunch of essays, not as laugh out loud as David Sedaris, but still pretty interesting and funny.
The chapter where she's learning to drive at the age of 28 is especially funny.
Her boss takes her to a cemetary to practice because she can't hurt anyone there.The author describing her room at the infamous Chelsea Hotel in New York City: "My room, marked 923 in ballpoint on a crumbling index card taped to the door, is an Edward Hopper painting waiting to happen.
Reading Sarah Vowell for the first time was like finding a long lost friend that I never met before.
There was an immediate familiarity - the sense of deja'vu: as though we shared these conversations at the cafe about the awkward teenage years, sibling rivalry, quirky family relationships and more.
I immediately recognized something of myself in her writing, as well as something inspirational.
I can't gush too much: there's a few pieces in here that are dry.
This is the first Vowell book I have read and I anxiously look forward to more!
Thankfully, I liked Take the Cannoli a lot more than I liked Radio On. The essays in this one overall seemed funnier and/or more interesting.
And the essay about the Trail of Tears was interesting and thought-provoking.
This was a much better collection than Radio On, perhaps because Vowell was older when she wrote these, or because they're less self-absorbed (or are they?), or ...
I just liked this set better than the first set I read.
I might even recommend it to people, whereas I would tell people to RUN from Radio On.
I love Sarah Vowell's writing, and this was no exception. It was a bizarre reading experience, though, in light of the 2016 election and her perspective on the seemingly dormant (and now-active) follies of American history. It made me crave her perspective on current events/feel icky.
Not my favorite of one of my favorite authors' books. Perhaps it's that some of the essays are older and don't feel as relevant, or maybe because the subjects just didn't really grab me. I didn't find myself as engaged as I have been in other essays. Which isn't to say I didn't get some chuckles out of this book, but I felt like the chuckles were more spaced out and mellow.
As with all collections like this - musings on life, music, history- some are more appealing than others. They’re well-written, and the book itself is a quick read.
Don't get me wrong - I've always liked Sarah Vowell's contributions to NPR (to This American Life in particular), and definitely love NPR itself.
The best parts of this collection were almost always the quoted words of others*, which is about the most damning praise I can give it, yet also indicative of Vowell's great journalistic instincts that are nonetheless smothered in this attempt at self-reflection through essays.*I'm thinking in particular of the following: "Personally, I am too vindictively American, too full of hate for the hateful aspects of this country, and too possessed by the things I love here to be too long away." (Ralph Ellison)and"You think this is a mess?
You would think that reading and reviewing a book written ten years ago about American culture might be tricky.
The best part of that book is Vowell taking us on a tour of America and making the history she finds relevant to today.
She tells us the history of a street corner in Chicago and then explains the lessons she learned from taking band in high school and from watching the movie the "Godfather."The end result is a very enjoyable series of essays that hold up even though they are 10 years old.
(Especially because she's also friends with fellow essayist  David Rakoff, whom I adore; one of the pieces in this collection is about the two of them going to DisneyWorld, and I had resist the temptation to leap up from my couch, waving my hand and crying: 'Ooh, take me!
It's nice to think that there are still some aspects of American life that can be seen as inclusive, red state or blue, and though Vowell (quite rightly) doesn't gloss over any of the nation's nastier aspects, she treats all her subjects with respect and humor—qualities we could certainly use more of.
Like the first book of hers I read, I banged this out in a day.This book is less history (which I believe is her "thing") and more personal, so unless you like the author as a person and voice, you can skip this book.
Vowell is always funny.
Her personal retracing of the Trail of Tears was probably my favorite part.
If someone had told me their favorite part of a book was the part where the author retraced the Trail of Tears, I would not hesitate to say, "PASS!" When any topic gets the Vowell treatment, however, it's worth a read in my opinion.Anyhoo, check out her stuff.
Fast reads, smart, funny, and relatable.

Enjoyed it.
Essays on being an American, and all the contradictions that entails.
Most difficult was the essay about doing "Heritage Tourism" along the Trail of Tears -- her struggles with what happened to the Cherokees along the Trail conflict with her knowledge that the tribe were slave-holders ...
an extended meditation on the inherent contradictions of being American.
In other books, she has a theme running through -- this one is more a collection of essays written at various times, many for This American Life.
Speaking of which, there's a pretty funny essay on Ira Glass attempting to teach her to drive.
This was the only Sarah Vowell collection I had not read. While I don't recommend this as highly as  Assassination Vacation, there are some great essays here. I really enjoyed her exploration of the Trail of Tears, the piece about life in the Chelsea Hotel (which has come up in a lot of my reading lately), and the one about making mix tapes. I have a crush on Sarah Vowell, and this book only deepened it.
Striking - equal parts hilarious, poignant, and intriguing; at times my wife asked me what I was laughing aloud at, and at other points my heart ached - sometimes the two were only paragraphs apart. The more I read of Ms. Vowell's work, the more I think she would be a fascinating person to have over to dinner. Her writing exemplifies the truth that history is about people, and is most interesting and enlightening when it's presented that way instead of as a dusty version of Trivial Pursuit, the way it is too often taught. Highly recommended.
I always enjoy reading Sarah Vowell's work, while never quite being blown away by it (though Assassination Vacation came close). Somehow it feels as though she never risks anything of herself. She riffs wiseass on others and historical events but she remains safe. This is perfectly okay, of course, just that after having been spoiled by Burroughs, Ames, Sedaris, et al, I've become hyper-aware of essayists who write about themselves but actually seem to be reserved about it.
I'm a big fan of Sarah Vowell's sarcastic writing style so I breezed through this book within 24 hours. Unlike most of her other books, this one is less of a romp through American history and more personal (but not any less enjoyable) with essays on her family and upbringing. A lot of the essays were quite funny. But I think I most appreciated her secret love affair with the Godfather films because it reminds me of my similar guilty pleasure of "Goodfellas."
Mildly interesting collection of essays examining pop culture and American history. The author has a certain wit, and her essays are quite clever even if ultimately not particularly insightful. Happy well-adjusted people, even the quirky clever and observant ones, annoy me on some level. Sarah Vowell is like FDR before the polio bestowed to him a visceral understanding of the terror of life. I hope she finds a less painful avenue to that sort of wisdom.
Sarah Vowell is funny in a low-key way. For example, she writes that her father loves guns so much he makes them for a living, and she drops this bit of information in with men she dates so that when the end inevitably comes, they’ll dump her in a respectful manner. She writes about serious historical events like the Trail of Tears to light subjects like being terrorized by her UPS man because she works from home. This is funny and educational.
Lovely personal essays by Sarah Vowell--I do tend to prefer her longer, more historical essays that weave into a story (like Assassination Vacation), but she writes so clearly and amusingly, it's not like I dislike any of these. Best: her learning to drive, battling insomnia, playing in the band, shooting her dad.
Another reiteration of Vowell awesomeness. My two favorites from this collection were 'Mix Tapes' and 'What I see when I look at a twenty dollar bill'. I always learn some interesting things when I read Sarah Vowell, and the Trail of Tears information in the twenty dollar bill essay was particularly thought-provoking. This confirms that she is one of my favorite authors.
Sarah Vowell is very funny, but she's also a great critic of popular culture, and specifically popular political history. She's always IN these essays, too, though -- I admire her courage to make it clear that she really cares about these issues.
If you were born after 1978 (or about) this book would hold a dusty charm for you. If you were born in the 60's or earlyish 70's, however, it reads like your life...slightly askew. It wrings sharp guffaws from the throat - the humor is so sneaky, so surprising. Vowell's is an uncommon talent.
