https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/128029.A_Thousand_Splendid_Suns
I've heard that it's depressing, that it's not as good as The Kite Runner, and that it's basically a novel about the brutal treatment of women in Afghanistan.You know when you read a book or see a film that has had great reviews and you finish feeling disappointed because it didn't live up to the hype?
Much to his credit, I found myself torn between wanting to yell at Laila to hush up, so that she'd avoid another beating, and kicking Rasheed myself, because he is a despicable brute.Mariam, one of the most tragic characters in literature, makes this book what it is; a story of love and strenghth.
August 2007I was riding in a cab in Bombay recently, and a bookseller on foot approached me at a traffic light with a stack of books.
The light turned green right then and the boy starts running with the cab yelling 'Memsahib!
In return he tosses a random book at me through the window as he's getting further & further away from the cab.
The cab driver asked me how much I ended up giving the boy.
I'm heading back to Bombay in a few days...maybe I'll run into another bookseller on foot :).
Like diamonds and roses hidden under bomb rubble, this is a story of intense beauty and strength buried under the surface of the cruel and capricious life imposed upon two Afghani women.   She remembered Nana saying once that each snowflake was a sigh heaved by an aggrieved woman somewhere in the world. That all the sighs drifted up the sky, gathered into clouds, then broke into tiny pieces that fell silently on the people below. As a reminder of how people like us suffer, she'd said. How quiet
The story revolves around two women, Mariam and Laila, born 20 years apart, but whose lives are intertwined through the events of the novel.
Anyway, once Mariam and Laila find themselves together, the story deepens as these two women slowly learn first to live with each other and later to depend upon each other as they face almost daily challenges, mostly from their abusive husband.
There is a great passage near the end of the book that I am going to hide with a spoiler because it reveals the final fate of one of the characters, but it is simply a perfect summation of the strength and dignity that is the heart of this story.
I'd say Hosseini may not be able to create three-dimensional characters.- While I appreciate Hosseini's attempt to teach a few decades of Afghan history -- a history few readers likely know in much detail -- grafting that history onto the story of one family makes for a rather creaky novel.
As a result, you sometimes get characters saying things like, "As you know, the Taliban forces men to grow their beards long and women to wear burkas." The cut-and-paste history lessons make the novel painful to read at times.- Hosseini routinely uses "harami" (bastard) and other words from the characters' native languages in his dialogue, followed by the English translation, apparently in an attempt to bring readers closer to the Afghan culture.
The horrors and terrors that a lot of women have gone through during certain period in Afghanistan, the war torn country ,and the narration through the lives of two women Mariam and Laila..Going through All kinds of Physical abuse of hitting, kicking and slapping ,brutal beating ,etc….Struggling the cruel extremely sadistic Rasheed, And suffering all kinds of violence and subjected to his shifting mood and volatile temper.Witnessing the ugliness of war, the fate of loved ones, grieving for lost lives.And sadly this is not exclusive to Afghan society only it is happening in many other countries The unhappy, abusive marriages, oppressive governments and repressive Cultural mores ..
It was a warm, sunny day in Montenegro and I was about to set out on a boat trip. I felt certain that a combination of sightseeing and the people I was with would keep me from having much time to read, but I packed a book anyway just in case there was time for a chapter or two in between stops. A Thousand Splendid Suns happened to be that book. And at the end of the day, when I staggered off that boat, blinking at my sudden exposure to reality, it wasn't because I'd been mesmerised by the stunn
And at the end of the day, when I staggered off that boat, blinking at my sudden exposure to reality, it wasn't because I'd been mesmerised by the stunning architecture and history lessons, no, it was because Hosseini stomped all over my heart and had me tearing through pages like a madwoman.
But I find myself comparing A Thousand Splendid Suns to another book about a country, culture and history I was only vaguely familiar with - The Poisonwood Bible - a book which I also read on my trip.
To my editor:Khaled here.
Could I make the characters any less complex?
Fortunately, aside from that minor lapse with Rassan, I think I managed to keep my characters and their relationships pretty simplistic, although there’s always room for improvement in that regard!2.
Pretty clever the way I stuffed the facts of recent Afghani history into my characters’ dialogue whenever I could, don’tcha think?5.
Isn’t it great that Afghanistan is such a hot topic that mediocre writers like me can make a buck by pandering to people’s intellectual pretensions?With hopes for another bestseller, Khaled
فقد عشت فيها وشعرت بأن ما حدث كان ماضي بعيد بالفعل وليست مجرد صفحات أنهيتها في وقت قريب.أما عن المقارنة بين هذه الرواية وروايته الأخرى "عدّاء الطائرة الورقية"، فأنا أحببت الثانية عن الأولى، لكن لا مجال للمقارنة بينهم، فالاثنتان رائعتان، اشتركتا في القضية، ولكنهما مختلفتين، فأنا أرى أن الاثنتين مكملتان لبعضهما البعض.
للكاتب حاشية في آخر الكتاب من كلمة ألقاها في معرض "بوك إكسبو أمريكا" عام 2007 ، يتحدث فيها عن نفسه وظروف كتابته للروايتين، وأنه لم يكن لينشر عدّاء الطائرة الورقية، وبعد نشرها لم يتوقع هذا الانتشار الهائل للرواية وتأثيرها في الناس على مختلف جنسياتهم ودياناتهم..
Loved this!
The war comes to the capital, after the Russians leave, warlords struggle for power, starvation widespread, horrendous crimes, committed in the open, shelling obliterated much of the city and the people, thousands perished ...including Laila's parents, in the future, her teenage boyfriend Tariq, two years older, escapes with his family to safety, in Pakistan , she refused to leave her father and mother, still alive then...Soon alone, in trouble, Laila has to marry Rasheed...his wife , Mariam , had nursed the wounded Laila, in their home.
نقل از متن کتاب: «جلیل با خنده برایش داستان «ملکه گوهرشاد» را تعریف میکرد، که مناره های مشهور هرات را در قرن پانزدهم، به عنوان چکامه ای از عشق خود به آن دیار بنا کرده بود، او برایش، از: گندمزارهای سبز هرات، و باغهای میوه، تاکستانهایی که آبستن شاخه های پربار انگور بودند، بازارهای پر ازدحام و شلوغ با سقفهای بلند و محرابی شان گفته بود.
Khaled tells us the story of two women and their struggles for life in a society that thinks they should not live.
Khaled tells these women's story and leaves the reader to wince, tear up and sigh; one time I had to catch my breath.I really enjoy Mr. Housseini’s transportive narrative and I was entirely engulfed in the lives of his characters.
One morning as I sat next to Maria, Vivian began to relieve a peanut butter english muffin sandwich of it’s contents.
I took out Suns and began reading while Vivian took to her task with muted satisfaction.
She really loves her father and decides that she wishes to live with him instead of her mother, with disastrous consequences; the upshot being that Mariam is forced to become the wife of Rasheed in Kabul.Laila is a good childhood friend of Tariq and they finally fall in love with far reaching results when Tariq leaves with his family for Pakistan.
Laila, who’s a great survivor, and philosophical, as is Mariam, then becomes Rasheed’s wife.For the two women, life with Rasheed becomes a living hell.
I didn't know whether to keep on reading or DNF this book.
I didn't know if I should give it 5 stars or 2.
The thing is, I cannot abide extreme hardship, pain, and suffering on behalf of the characters that are in the books I read.I'm certain that this is to be the last book I'd read this year.
And what a book did it prove to be!
Reason, rationality are out of the window.I know I haven't mentioned the plot or who appears in the book, but I cannot.
I cannot summarize this book.
I need to read one of my favorite non fiction writers posthaste.
The latter reads like a horrible documentary.
4.75 starsThis book doesn’t have the full, 100% impact of WOW THAT WAS AMAZING but it was pretty damn good.
This book is just as empowering as it is tragic, and Hosseini is just masterful at storytelling at this magnificent scope.
It's also one of those rare books that's pretty melancholy throughout the duration of the book, but something about getting to the ending just really brought out the floodworks and i'm sitting here typing this review lookin like that one mindy kaling meme.
Hosseini's books have all proven tremendous and if you're intimidated but still want to try them out, I would recommend this on audio!
Στην πραγματικότητα η ουσία και η καρδιά του μυθιστορήματος είναι το Αφγανιστάν και τα ανθρώπινα όντα δεύτερης διαλογής που κατοικούν εκεί.
Πόσο υπέροχα τραγικά και καταθλιπτικά υφαίνει ο Χοσεϊνί ένα ρεαλιστικό κάλυμμα της βιαιότητας που επικρατεί αιώνες τώρα σε αυτή τη γωνιά του κόσμου.Ας κάνουμε πως παραβλέπουμε τις συγκρούσεις σε αυτή την περιοχή που χρονολογούνται απο την εποχή του Μ.
Όταν διέσχιζε την Περσία για να κατακτήσει την Ινδία, όταν το ιστορικό σταυροδρόμι δυο αρχαίων τεράστιων πολιτισμών, της Περσίας και της Ινδίας προσέλκυε κατακτητές και πολέμαρχους απο κάθε γωνιά του πλανήτη.
For the second time, Khaled Hosseini trains his spotlight on his unfortunate home country-however, whereas in The Kite Runner it was only a plot device for the protagonist’s personal redemptive journey, here it is one of the main characters, this land of A Thousand Splendid Suns.This novel is the story of two women, and through them, Woman in general; as she exists and endures in most parts of the world.
The bond is strengthened when Laila gives birth to a girl and loses glamour in the eyes of Rasheed, making her a fellow-sufferer with Mariam: and Mariam simply loves Aziza, Laila’s daughter, all the more because she is a little harami like herself!Things slowly spiral to a climax when Tariq returns.
Hosseini has remarked that he regards the novel as a "mother-daughter story" in contrast to The Kite Runner, which he considers a "father-son story".
بیت را «صائب تبریزی» در وصف «کابل» سروده استاز متن کتاب: «جلیل با خنده برایش داستان «ملکه گوهرشاد» را تعریف میکرد، که مناره های مشهور هرات را در قرن پانزدهم، به عنوان چکامه ای از عشق خود به آن دیار بنا کرده بود، او برایش از گندمزارهای سبز هرات و باغهای میوه، تاکستانهایی که آبستن شاخه های پربار انگور بودند، بازارهای پر ازدحام و شلوغ با سقفهای بلند و محرابیشان گفته بود.
This story shows both the dangers that Mariam and Laila face- on the streets of Kabul and in the home.
Reading parts of this book left a stale taste in my mouth over the abuse and learned helplessness these women face.Singing is forbidden.
It also makes the reader consider their own privilege compared to the stories of both Laila and Mariam.
I think the most stunning thing about this novel is that whilst Mariam and Laila are fictional characters, it applies to so many women out there (for example, around 65 million girls globally are not in school).
تصميمي لغلاف الروايةألف شمس مشرقةوألف دمعة وألف طعنة للقلب مع كل سطر من سطور هذه الروايةاللقاء الأول

At 15, while I was still playing jack stones or watching Japanese anime, the girls in the story perpetually worried that any day they would be given away to some stranger in marriage.
I love how the lens of the story starts by zooming in on a small village, on one small character whose role in society seems of least significance and then zooms out onto the bigger picture, showing the conflicts in the country as a whole and how in the end, the small character will mark a huge place in the society.
Hosseini manages to introduces his readers who are not familiar with the cultures described in this novel to a different world, a world I personally didn't know as much about before reading "A Thousand Splendid Suns" (and still wouldn't consider myself knowing a lot about).
Khaled Hosseini's writing transports the important message that no matter where we come from, we are still all humans.
Here in Germany and probably in many other places on our planet as well, people often tend to forget that coming from a different culture does not mean those humans are worth any less than we all are, and I think Hosseini's writing has the strength to remind more people of this fact.
This man is domineering and abusive and Mariam’s inability to conceive causes her to quickly fall out of favor.The second main character is Laila, a beautiful young girl who grows up as a neighbor of Rasheed and Mariam in Kabul.
He alludes to Hemingway in one section when Laila’s father is reading The Old Man and the Sea. A Thousand Splendid Suns is also a fight against impossible odds, a story of hope when the situation is hopeless, and the resilience of the human spirit.I think that this book is destined to be a classic.
I felt a little intrepid about reading this novel because I loved The Kite Runner so much, but A Thousand Splendid Suns is equally superb.
Mariam is the illegitimate daughter of wealthy businessman Jalil but is forced to live with the stigma of being a "harami." She lives an isolated life with her mother, but her father visits weekly.
Mariam's adoration for her father and desire for his acceptance leads to a fateful change in her entire existence.
After tragedy strikes, Jalil, in his weakness, forces Mariam to marry Rasheed, an older man, and move to Kabul.
مريم يا وجع القلب!قادتني الرواية برفقة "مريم" في دروب أفغانستان الوعرة...بكل ما فيها من أحداث جسيمة 
A Thousand Splendid Suns was one of the best and most meaningful books I have probably ever read in 16 years of life because it embodies all the themes and values regarding gender identity and disparity that has been much debated by society for a long time.I'd like to start off by saying that I absolutely, absolutely loved this book.
He sees her only as a tool for breeding his heirs and mistreats, r*pes and severely abuses her, when it is found out that she is sterile.But despite life being, for the most part, unfair to her, and despite facing nothing but hardship her whole life, Mariam's personality is so beautiful that it completely broke my heart.
4.75⭐”Learn this now and learn it well. Like a compass facing north, a man’s accusing finger always finds a woman. Always. You remember that, Mariam.”So profoundly, heart-achingly, depressingly sad.
4.75⭐️”Learn this now and learn it well. Like a compass facing north, a man’s accusing finger always finds a woman. Always. You remember that, Mariam.”So profoundly, heart-achingly, depressingly sad.
I am surprised at how well Hosseini writes from a woman's perspective.
Even though I have not experienced most of what Mariam and Laila have, this story still spoke to me in a profound and personal way.
Just reading about the way that women were treated under Islamic rule makes me very grateful to have what I do.
It is well-written, powerful, and an amazing book, but it is not an emotional trek I'd want to make very often.
I am glad that I read it though...
Hosseini's books do give one a different perspective on life.
A Thousand Splendid Suns is a book by Khaled Hosseini. I found this book emotionally captivating and also a real eye opener, I had never before truly understood the hardship of female life under Taliban rule.Undeniably Khaled Hossaini is a great story teller. His depictions of Afghanistan and his characters bring them to life for the reader.Overall, it was a beautiful book that really opened my eyes to the wonderful people of Afghanistan and their history and how many women are still mistreated today.
