https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/670572.When_Worlds_Collide
Dated but wonderful book.
As noted this book is very dated, was written long ago and has some pretty un-PC parts, but it's a good story and shouldn't be missed.You will definitely spot the time lag here when you start to deal with science in the book but it doesn't take away from the experience.
I always wonder what happens to the first interplanetary voyage if when they/we get there we can't access the electronic library.
For that matter what happens HERE if there's an EMP and all the books preserving human knowledge are saved digitally.
Oh well, off topic.This is a well plotted, well written book.
But can Hendron and his 1,000 followers prepare their 100-person-capacity rocket ship before the so-called "Bronson bodies" return, and wipe out planet Earth in toto?I alluded to the spectacular nature of Wylie & Balmer's story just before, and I use that word advisedly; "When Worlds Collide" surely does provide much in the way of spectacle.
What an amazing amount of prediction for a book written in the 1930s!
This is justifiably known as a classic of apocalyptic science fiction.
With almost journalistic objectivity, the novel relates the global efforts by humanity to cheat certain death, and in particular the quest in the United States (with both American and international personnel) to shift a small number of people to one of the planets before Earth is destroyed.
(In fact, the main female character is a scientist in her own right.) It's well worth reading for anyone interested in the history of science fiction, apocalyptic visions, and stirring adventure.
The wonderful movie of the same name is based on this novel which caused me to seek out the book.
It is the story of building an arc to save a few humans and animals after the collision with Earth by a rogue planet on collision course.
I was surprised by the accuracy of the science, even compared to today's standards.
Of course they had to get to the new planet without computers or other modern technological advances.
Still it has good, hard science for the 30's.
It is an engaging story, even better than the movies.
If it’s not sun spots, supernovae, giant asteroids, comets, or alien invasions, now we have to worry about some rogue planet entering our solar system and trying to nudge Earth out of our prime spot.In 1932, authors Edwin Balmer and Philip Wylie extrapolated such a scenario in their somewhat cheesy and dated but still immensely entertaining novel “When Worlds Collide”, made into a popular Hollywood film in 1951.
Both planets are named after the scientist, Sven Bronson, who made the discovery.News of the existence of the rogue planets is kept a secret from the general public because of something else that was discovered: Bronson Alpha is on a direct collision course with Earth.
It flipped my ‘bad SyFy movie lover’ switch early on, and I had no problem basking in the gloriousness of it for the rest of the book.Now, obviously given the time this was written in, there are going to be some things that offend modern sensibilities.
I’m not going to talk about them too much because this book was written 85 years ago.
Asteroids, zombies, nuclear war, etc, have all had their day in the sun, but stray planets get little love.Overall, I expect that When Worlds Collide will end up being one of the best novels I’ve read this year.
It surely must have been the greatest sci fi book ever written in its time.
These days no one would care about having to breed with random people to make the best children.
Modern people's lack of morals, lack of a sense of duty, and utter selfishness make this story seem very unrealistic.
It's a good story idea, the world about to be smashed by a rogue asteroid, but the writing didn't do much for me.
I would recommend this book just because for its time period it must have been great, and also because it gives a unique view into how people used to think.
I read this, the first time when I was a youngster. I read it again in 2016 and found it to be just as great 50 years later.
All those other apocalyptic books with their puny viruses and piddling nuclear wars have nothing on When Worlds Collide, which is about the smashing of Earth itself into jagged little pieces.Or it would be -- if physics respected the three-act structure.The book begins with the man who is carrying the fate of Mankind in his briefcase: photographic plates of two large planetary objects -- one about the size of Neptune, one Earth-sized -- that are on a collision course with the third planet in our little solar system.
The scientists fight for their lives and have to fire back on the attacking crowd of ravaging people.WHAT I THOUGHT ABOUT THE BOOK: I could not imagine a more terrifying end of the world scenario than the one conceived by Balmer and Wylie.
I love how Balmer and Wylie portray the uncertainty of the scientists and how they wonder about such simple, taken-for-granted things as marriage and children--will love have to be set aside for the sake of procreating children for this new world?
Though both the language and the science in the book is dated, there's a lot about it that still rings true.However, the reason I most appreciate this book and this edition is it introduced me to Philip Wylie, and after reading it, I hunted down most everything by him I could find.
Later, during the Cold War, Wylie wrote a number of books featuring a post-nuclear war America, most notably in Tomorrow!
Wylie himself became personally involved in Civil Defense initiatives.But what I find to be the most delightful Wylie are the "Crunch and Des" stories he wrote, mostly for the Saturday Evening Post, that you can now find in a number of modern editions.
All of this written before 1932!Yes, some of the science we know today is missing.
A modern version would have had several probes landing on the new planet, and the composition of the atmosphere (via spectral analysis) determined well in advance.The main characters are fully fleshed out, and the "love triangle" between Eve, Tony and David is a good side story to the direct plot.
Also, the novel is "color blind" - very few racial descriptions are given.These are but minor quibbles in a very readable story, most of the time hard to put down.
The plot would work today, with just a few minor tweaks to update the science.
This is dated but fun.
By "dated" I don't mean the science, which veers between inaccurate and glossed over, but is convincingly told: suspension of disbelief holds up.
Rather, I mean that the book reflects commonplace social attitudes of the early 1930s about the relative abilities and characteristics of men and women, with an uncomfortable characterization of an Asian valet.So a few interesting tidbits: in summarizing world reaction to the news, Mussolini gets name checked, but Germany has no named leader.
It's written in 1932.
The amount of discussion of the necessary realities of repopulating a world is also surprising.
In addition, war was looming and nations such as Japan, Germany, France, Britain, and the U.
S. were very much aware of the cataclysm to come.
While actual events have dated the story for both of these books, the books remain viable not only as great adventure stories, but as a glimpse into the fears of that time.
This is a classic - perhaps the first apocalyptical comet-asteroid-planet hits the earth saga.
I suspect this is largely due to several factors like the antiquated views of its authors.
Endemic racism, sexism, classism, and disdain for anyone who is not wealthy or successful, informs the writing.
The authors, however, deserve applause for this early effort to describe such an event.The writing is dated, archaic and stilted but the plot and over all vision is mostly well thought out.
(The beginning and end are exceptions - totally unbelievable.) Despite plenty of cringeworthy elements this classic is worth a read.
Witten in the early 1930s, When Worlds Collide tells the story of what happens when two planets that have been set free from their own star "some millions of years ago" make their way into our solar system with first a close pass, then a direct collision course with Earth. Seems as if it's intended as a religious parable (even down to the female lead being named Eve), or at the very least, yet another indictment of man's inhumanity to man and his planet.
This book was so much better than I expected. It wasn't overly deep, but it was exceedingly well paced. It opens with energy and manages to carry it without. There were a few scientific discrepancies, but that's just because it was written in 1933, and they were very easily overlooked. The story was engaging without being overly heavy. It was a relaxing yet quality read. I very much so look forward to reading After Worlds Collide.
I can see why this book is so popular. The ideas presented are astounding and for its time and they're pretty interesting too, even now-a-days. I can imagine what people must of wondered about after reading this book back in the 30's. Very well written and I'm recommending it to every sci-fi fan I know. True classic!
Dated, but I liked it so much that I went out immediately to purchase and read its sequel, After World Collide. Both were read at grandmother's cottage in Lake Charter Township, Michigan.A movie version of this volume was made in the fifties in color. It also holds up rather well. The most recent remake appears to be 2012--one of the worst disaster movies ever made.
This is the first book I read outside of books required for school. I have the hard cover which I probably read in the early 50's. It has no date which it was printed. Copyright, 1932, 1933 by Edwin Balmer and Philip Wylie.
Good book. Not great. Maybe a better movie. No verbs in this review.
Ah, 1930s SF. The men are cardboard, the foreigners stereotypes, and women are introduced as being incredibly intelligent but never do anything beyond existing as potential babymakers.
Fantastic adventure. This is the Queen-Mother of all disaster stories. It made a great movie too!
Great book, ideas ahead of its time!
Good! That is the 'original' science fiction!
The science, however, is rather thoughtless and rushed, even for the pulp era; the intellectual and moral underpinnings of who, out of all the 1.5 billion in the world, should have a berth on the ark are woefully underexamined as well; and characterization somehow seems to grow ever more two-dimensional as the story progresses.How is it, for example, that these scientists of 1932 are so close not only to nuclear fission but also to using an atomic motor as a direct-thrust rocket?
But there is a chance that some earthings could survive on the earth-like planet.Rather than the alternating disbelief or hysteria at this news as portrayed in the film, the book version takes the science very seriously and shows us how the US, in particular, copes with the news.
There is a group led by scientist Cole Hendron which has determined that a small group of qualified people could be sent via spaceship (a entirely new concept to 1930s Earth) to the earth-like planet and survive.
I'm not sure that I can ever watch the old film again after reading this excellent and terrifying story.
And the other thing I remember from my first reading of this book in high school was a mention of Mussolini although I thought it was Hitler.
We read this book in a high school class not a literature class and I don’t know why maybe because we were doing a section on science fiction?
I know we had to write a science-fiction story and I wrote one on an already existing planet.
It’s really interesting to note 36 years after reading this book for the first time that they talk about re-creating the human race by mixing and matching couples and illuminating marriage.
Parziale eccezione per i sudafricani Ransdall e Bronson, salvati dal fatto di essere anglosassoni.I singoli personaggi sono un po' piatti, il protagonista è bello e buono e anche se ha i suoi difetti trova sempre la forza di essere giusto e razionale; la sua innamorata è bella e buona anche lei, ma a volte un po' fragile e comunque bisognosa di essere difesa (le donne in generale fanno una magra figura in questo libro); lo scienziato capo è saggio e intelligente e così via.Ma a parte ciò trama interessante, con una bella descrizione della psicologia delle masse durante un cataclisma di proporzioni planetarie.
