https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1097582.Crictor
I have read many books by Tomi Ungerer and I have just recently stumbled upon this book called “Crictor.” “Crictor” is a French story by Tomi Ungerer and it is about how an old friendly woman named Madame Louise Bodot gets a boa constrictor for a pet and the two of them become the best of friends.
“Crictor” is the perfect story of true friendship that will be an instant favorite for children for many years!A long time ago in France, there live an old lady named Madame Louise Bodot and she had a son who was in Africa, studying reptiles.
And I also have to wonder if I would have appreciated Crictor considerably more now and as an older and often rather academically inclined adult, had I also read it as a young child, or more to the point, had I had Crictor read to me or with me as a young child (for there are indeed a goodly number of especially animal-based fantastical, patently unrealistic picture books that have high star ratings for me simply because of nostalgia, because I remember loving them as a toddler).
This is one of the few books I have read in German (you see what kind of level I am at) so I probably didn't get all the jokes. A pleasant story showing that not all snakes are bad - one of Ungerer's big things is fighting prejudice against minorities. Even very small children would probably like it.
Very cute, as snakes go. A bit of bonus educational content (Crictor makes the shapes of letters and numbers for a few pages.) Rather surprised it didn't hatch a sequel.
I haunt the free boxes, thrift stores, and secondhand bookshops in my small town, & lately I've been indulging my nostalgia for well-loved copies of some of the well-loved titles from my 1960s-1970s childhood.
Yesterday I revisited Crictor, a long-forgotten but immediately familiar favorite from my reading past.
Maybe because my mother had a serious phobia of snakes but tried to avoid passing it on to her daughters, we read this book early and often.
Maybe I'll dig out my copy of Shel Silverstein's Where the Sidewalk Ends: The Poems and Drawings of Shel Silverstein and compare Crictor to Shel's boa constrictor.
This is a book that I remember fondly from my childhood.
It seemed so familiar to me that I just recently realized that I had not yet read it with our girls.
So I definitely had to fix that!
We found this book at our local library as part of a kit with an audiocassette of the story.
It's lovely to listen to the story being read aloud by Faith Stanfield (with music by Ernest V.
Troost) while following along with the book and I highly recommend this story to parents of young children.
Ungerer's name of the cover caught my eye at the library. After reading through it, I'm pretty sure I did read it as a child, although the only part I remember is Crictor catching the burgler.
Crictor is another old story about a wild animal who finds his place in a human home.
After her initial surprise, she accepts him as if he were any other kind of pet and he quickly finds his place in her neighborhood and community -- playing with the children and (like Lyle, Lyle, Crocodile and The Story of Babar) helping with their educational instruction.
The story culminates when Madame Bodot's home is invaded by a burglar, who is subdued by Crictor until the police arrive (drawn by the burglar's terrified screams).
I found, however, that I had more interest in finding the mice or spiders hidden within the drawings (think the mouse in Goodnight, Moon) than in the narrative.
The book's tension, in the form of a crime spree in Madame Bodot's Paris neighborhood, does not arise until late in the book, leaving readers to yawn through early descriptions of the snake's new life in France.
And really, does the snake's capture of ONE thief merit a naming a statue and park after him?
Save your energies for Goodnight, Moon, a credible and well-researched story of a rabbit reading a bedtime story to her rabbit child.
Crictor, the imaginatively named boa, becomes a beloved pet, spoiled to the point of hand-knit sweaters...Okay, at first glance I thought I was going to love this book.
I was reading along to my five year-old and the story was progressing, the style of the illustrations really sweet, when all of a sudden the old lady was being robbed at knife-point, bound in a chair, and the boa constrictor was saving the day.
I don't mind the saving the day part, nor do I mind adventure, but my son has never even considered being robbed, and bound, and knives and all that, and he had this great big question mark-look on his face.
I loved this book as a kid. Don't know how I could have neglected adding this to my shelves.
I love the letters and numbers that could be used with preschoolers.
Perhaps K-5 instead.I would recommend this preschool and up as a lap-read though, for the pictures are too good to miss close-up.7/22/10 I planned on using this for last week's Pets-themed school age.
While that group loved this book, they misplaced my copy and I could not find it in time for school age.
I did find it later, and used it as a filler in my Thu preschool group.
They liked it, though I wonder if they didn't catch the pictures as well as the school age group did.
Crictor is a hero for a postmodern era.
He protects his loved ones, his family, his town, and in a very literal sense, society.
He apprehends the assailant without the assault and brutality that we've come to expect from so many heroes under the guise of so-called justice.
Ungerer, well ahead of his time, also creates an environment welcoming of multiple gender expressions.
As a baseline, Crictor plays equally with both boys and girls, setting a gender-neutral playing field; he is himself androgynous; and he may be genderqueer, although that requires an exploration of subtext beyond the scope of this review.
Initially shocked by the gift she does the right thing, studies up on boas and sets out to provide a good home for snake, whom she names Crictor.There are a few oddities to the book, like the woman feeding a milk bottle to Crictor.
They remind me a bit of the style used for The Plant Sitter by Gene Zion but it's not the same author or artist.The book was first released in 1958 and re-released as a Reading Rainbow book in 1983.
It's on ALA's Notable Children's book list 1940-1959 and is on Horn Book fanfare honor list.
SUMMARY: A highly diverting picture book about an agreeable pet boa constrictor that earns the affection and gratitude of a French village.REVIEW: My 3 year old grandson enjoyed the antics of Crictor the boa constrictor in this short children's book.
We had a trip to the pet store yesterday while it was raining and saw 2 snakes.
Ungerer creates delightful adventures for Crictor which all make him seem much more friendly than the normal everyday snake.
This book would be especially great for young children who are learning letters and numbers since Crictor goes to school and makes himself into the alphabet and the primary numbers.
Slightly strange book about a woman in France who is given a boa constrictor from her son in Africa. (My Pet Peeve: When books refer to "Africa" as though there is no difference between Lesotho and Egypt. But this book dates from the 1950's, so I guess it was normal for the time.)
I wish I had a boa constrictor like Crictor who would save me from burglars! Tomi Ungerer's scratchy illustrations are darling and I love his simple use of colour. And as one might expect, it's a wonderful story, too.
Contrived and unsatisfying.
This is a very quick read. I gave it five stars, but it's on the bottom of my ranked Ungerer stories.I love his simple line illustrations and spot colors. The story's cute and funny as well.
I always like that even though it is fun it was really educational for young learners.
Crictor is used and shaped in letters and numbers which will teach young learners these concepts in fun ways.
I also like how they portrayed something that is perceived to be scary in snakes as fun, and helpful.
The ending of the book was fun in that he helped stop the robber, and he got the park dedicated to him as well as a medal.
Crictor is a character that I enjoyed and I think most young learners would as well.
Crictor / by Tomi Ungerer -- New York : HarperCollins Publishers, c1958. (32 pages)SUMMARY: Madame Bodot, a French school teacher, receives a surprising package from her son in the form of a baby boa constrictor. She learns about the snake and treats Crictor as a lovable pet who becomes a town hero when he catches a burglar.REVIEW: Another title I read as a child -- not sure if I liked it then, not sure if I like it now. OK book, but nothing great about the story or the illustrations which are simple with few colors.
I thought this was a very cute book that I think children would like.
It would make for a good read aloud as well.
I like the story a lot.
The idea of a pet boa constrictor is not something I've seen very much and I like that this book portrays a kind of snake like animal in a nice way, since most children are scared of them, so I thought that was nice.
I also love the illustrations.
They are very simple and I liked that the color scheme was green when there was color.
Una historia de amistad entre Madame Louise Bodot y quien le llega en el misterioso regalo en forma de O de parte de su hijo que vivía en África.Tomi Ungerer desarrolla las ilustraciones complementando el texto narrativo, dándoles personalidades más claras tanto de Madame Bodot como se su regalo.Aunque el desenlace parece apresurado, el narrador logra construir simpatía y cariño entre los 2 personajes.
What a charming little story! Crictor is now a new favorite. Illustrations are delightful!Ages: 4 - 8**Like my reviews? I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too. These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't. I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website!
A village teacher’s son sends her a clever boa constrictor from Africa for her birthday, and he lives a happy life in France. The story is funny, though unbelievable. Some of the artwork wouldn’t be accepted today (e.g., Crictor being the jump rope for the schoolgirls, retrieving a kite from the power lines, helping boy scouts tie what looks like a noose).
It is a cute little children's book about a pet boa constrictor, though the page after page of the snake turning himself into letters and numbers was quite tedious.
A woman whose son works with snakes sends her one as a gift and they have various outings and one full on adventure.
Picture Book
Best book ever.
Along with Three Robbers, this is probably Ungerer's best work.
