https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/228630.Black_Boy
As Orwell put it: you have to LOVE Big Brother."Thou shalt not think!" That is the commandment that Richard Wright learns as a beaten, hungry, neglected child.
And they see it.""Oh Christ, I can't be a slave", I said hopelessly."But you've got to eat", he said."Yes, I got to eat."Following Richard Wright's path to breaking free from the dilemma of being human and having to eat is a chilling reading experience, one that reminds us why we can't shrug off the rising voices of tribalism as fringe phenomena.
Wright, however, does not claim this as his life, but rather as a Record of Youth and Childhood, the tale of a Black Boy growing up in the Southern States between the two World Wars.
I read this with a kind of ghastly horrified fascination, thinking only what a dreadful time and place for an intelligent young black man to be alive.As a boy, Richard is routinely, relentlessly, habitually beaten: by his mother and his grandmother, and later the same kind of treatment is attempted by an uncle and an aunt.
Where he began relating his experiences of, and delineating his theoretical disagreements with, the Communist party in Chicago, my experience of reading became less interactive, less organic, and to some degree, less interesting.
It occurred to me, that at this point in the book, his style changed, and this observation allowed me to ponder again something that Phillip had said about my first workshop submission—that my writing in that piece tended more to the sociological than to the literary.
Or, some, like Wright’s, begin in a brilliant literary vein but veer off when the writer becomes too didactic.
Black Boy is the book that made me fall in love with reading.
I made my step-dad stop in a bookstore so I could buy more books by Richard Wright.
As Black Boy is Wright's autobiography, I was enthralled with Richard Wright's life and how he was able to escape the hardships and pains of his life by reading and getting absorbed into the story of someone else's life.
I needed that escape at that point in my life and Wright taught me that when life is hard and you don't want to think about your reality anymore, you can always pick up a good book.
I hesitated between 3 and 4 stars for Black Boy. I felt that it was similar in structure to Invisible Man by Ellison but the writing, in my opinion was inferior.
Like Ellison, the novel starts with Wright's childhood in the South - deserted by his father and always hungry (the original title was American Hunger - he teaches himself to read (a dangerous occupation for a black person in the South of the 20s and discovers and suffers from poverty and racism.
i’m in the minority (minority. heh heh.) in finding this book superior to ellison’s invisible man. it might not be as daring, might lack the touch of modernist irony, but sometimes ya gotta shove all that aside and recognize a great book for just being a great book. something ellison’s book just ain't.
L'altro giorno scarrellavo (tipo zapping selvaggio alla Fantozzi) in TV e alla fine mi son fermato su un canale dove stavano trasmettendo un documentario su un nuovo movimento nazionalista, neofascista di estrema destra.
Comunque mi guardo questo documentario dove venivano intervistati i membri e perlopiù erano giovani, giovanissimi, poco più che maggiorenni.
Non ci volevo credere ma si parlava ancora di: famiglia tradizionale, prima gli italiani (e poi solo gli italiani?!), discriminazione ed altre robette di questo genere...
Un'ora di tedio e finalmente è finito, ma forse il mio sentimento più forte è stato quello di delusione, perchè esiste la discriminazione?Queste ed altre domande si pone, anche Richard in questo libro autobiografico.
Gems sometimes come from unexpected places such as Richard Wright’s autobiography/novel Black Boy. I decided to read this because I discovered a free literature course named The American Novel since 1945 from Open Yale and it was the first title discussed.
The intent was more to present the facts as they were, how life was back then for a black boy.
His intention is supported by the name of the book, Black boy.
That comes to support the idea that he wanted his autobiography to be generic.
Did I seriously just start this book two days ago?
Now I'm glad I did so; I learned quite a good deal about Wright, starting from the age of four when he accidentally started his grandparents' house on fire and finishing somewhere in his twenties after his stint with the Communist Party.There's a lot in between too, all blanketed in hunger, violence, racial tensions, and fear.
It's not a pleasant read, but hard to put down once started.
There's a lot of uncomfortable things involving race in the news right now (and always), and reading this book makes one realize so little has changed since the 1940s when this was published.
Here's Richard Wright going door to door in the 1920s Jim Crow South trying to sell his dog for a dollar because he's starving.
A few days later (view spoiler)[the dog gets run over by a coal truck, (hide spoiler)] and this book is a bummer.
(hide spoiler)] Here, as in Native Son, Wright slows down quite a bit; the back third of each book gets extremely talky.
He sucks you in and then he's like "Now that I've got you, let's talk about Communism." But even with the - let's face it - boring stuff, this is still the best description of life under Jim Crow I've ever read.
It was the section where young Richard Wright (living in Alabama?) wanted to read libraby books, but couldn't check books out of the library because he was black.
Wright had to ask this man to check out books from the library for him.
Being an inveterte bookworm myself, I was horrified at the idea of not being able to check books out of the library.
(Okay, so I was sheltered, but consider that when my parents wanted to punish me for doing something awful, rather than ground me they would take away my books.) I knew I had to read the biography of a man who would risk so much to read books.
The second begins with Wright realizing his dream of moving north and his experiences in Chicago right before and during the Great Depression era rise of Communism.
During this time all Southern blacks lived in fear of the "White Terror." While reading this memoir I realized that to fully understand modern social policies and the impact and meaning these policies have on the African American community, it is necessary to look closely and far into the past of our racist history, prior to the familiar events of the Civil Rights Movement.
At the time I read it, the book left a big impression on me.
So, when one of the Goodreads clubs to which I belonged chose "BLACK BOY" as the Book of the Month, I was eager to see what I might find or discover from re-reading it.
From the moment I plunged into the first paragraph, I felt like I was reading it for the first time, with fresh eyes.Wright brought to me, as a reader, his fears, hopes, and dreams that he had while growing up in the South - be it in Mississippi (where he was born), Arkansas, and Tennessee.
It hugs the easy way of damning those whom it cannot understand, of excluding those who look different, and it salves its conscience with a self-draped cloak of righteousness” ― Richard Wright, Black BoyIn an attempt to further my literary education, I am taking this course: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list...Black Boy is the first book on the syllabus (I love that word, "syllabus", it's so silly for a serious, college word, but I digress).
I didn't want to put it down until the final 60-or-so odd pages.
Did I mention they were free courses?In summation: Highly recommended first half, but the second part can easily be skipped without losing much.
Kunde jag ge den mer än en femma skulle jag. THIS BOOK. Fy tusan så bra. Perfektion.
All the black families living on his street are hungry, but Richard wonders why he’s hungry.
This line of questioning is extraordinary given that the conditions of black people in Jim Crow South are almost like those of people living in pre-agricultural societies: they are so consumed with fulfilling basic human needs (the only constant through Richard’s numerous moves across the South is an everlasting hunger), that no time remains for them to develop things of worth and permanence.
I cannot imagine living as a black boy in Mississippi in the 1910s.
Raccontandoci la sua vita (dall’infanzia ai vent’anni circa), di fatti, Wright, dà modo al lettore non solo di calarsi nelle atmosfere di un’epoca ma anche di entrare nel pensiero di un giovane nero e della sua comunità.Le pagine più interessanti sono proprio quelle che ci delineano l’incontro/scontro del giovane afroamericano con la società bianca.
Non potevo reagire nel modo in cui il mondo che mi circondava si aspettava da me; era un mondo troppo sconcertante, troppo insicuro.” Pensare prima di agire è “semplicemente” una questione di vita o di morte.
Che cos'era che rendeva l'odio dei bianchi verso i negri così inflessibile, apparentemente insito nel tessuto stesso delle cose?
As I learned from the excellent free Yale lecture series entitled The American Novel Since 1945 with Amy Hungerford (available on YouTube), Black Boy is in fact part autobiography and part work of fiction.
Instead the work is intended mix his own life with a portrayal of the general experience of a black boy growing up in the American South in the early twentieth century.
Racism in America has not been defeated; it just happened that one black boy managed to keep fighting and somehow make a better place for himself.
I just felt there was a jarring disconnect, because he was being so heartfelt and honest about his personal experiences with discrimination and coming of age in a divided America, that the Communist part while fascinating, just felt like it belonged in a different book.On Communism:"I knew, as I watched, that I was looking at the future of mankind, that this way of living would finally win out.
Whenever my environment had failed to support or nourish me, I had clutched at books; consequently, my belief in books had risen more out of a sense of desperation than from any abiding conviction of their absolute value. If you've found your way to this corner of the Internet, the above quote should look strangely familiar. It's the most popular quote accredited to Richard Wright, and considering the context (as if that were not mandated for every critical engagement), this tells us a great de
That top often truncated quote, caught as it is in the unusual cross purposes of history as the conclusion that the passing of time has erased the necessity for, attests that literature may not have been the first, or second, or even fifteenth choice had Wright not had every other rug pulled out from underneath him and hanged on the nearest branch.
Thirdly, what other black person during Wright's day and age gained such a measure of credible exposure as to put their life and experiences on public broadcast and garner such a positive and world wide effect?
As an author, political and social commentator and all round citizen of the world, what is there not to love about the great Richard Wright?I enjoyed this book on both a personal and political level that I'm not sure it's possible for me to break down how I feel about it into this little box, let alone critique it (although I would have loved it to have encompassed Wright's reflections on his later adult life, but that's just me being pernickety).
So much to be said about this book that I couldn't possibly give a good review and include everything.Many times I was left speechless and at times laughed at the innocence of a child who knew no better and was forced to grow up too fast and learn things on his own.
He shares his ordeal with hunger, a father who abandons them, a mother who struggles to provide for him and his brother.Tragedy, racism, illness, defiance, religion, education are all part of this wonderfully written account of a boy who struggled for things that we are privileged to have, one of which was books.
Richard Wright grew up in the woods of Mississippi amid poverty, hunger, fear, and hatred.
He lied, stole, and raged at those around him; at six he was a "drunkard," hanging about in taverns.
Surly, brutal, cold, suspicious, and self-pitying, he was surrounded on one side by whites who were either indifferent to him, pitying, or cruel, and on the other by blacks who resented anyone trying to rise above the common lot.
Black Boy is Richard Wright's powerful account of his journey from innocence to experience in the Jim Crow South.
This books is well written but a classic autobiography of a black boy's journey during the Jim Crow South. I loved this book because it was easy to read, it takes you back in time, intense, and based on literary history. This book is a must have as a collection on a bookshelf.
This was so vast and widely important and touched on so much. I have never felt so personally connected to a book. Maybe when I’ll grow up I’ll make this into a mini series. That’s my dream.
The first part focuses on Richard Wright’s life in the South and his gradual move North to what he assumes will be a better life, the second on his time in Chicago and in particular his association with the Communist Party up until about 1937.Of the two sections, the first is the more compelling if the more harrowing of the two as it charts Wright’s younger years and all the beatings, poverty, hunger and deprivations that occur.
After reading Native Son and being absolutely amazed with Wright's talents, I wanted to read more by him, including this book, Black Boy, his Autobiography.
The book is composed of two major sections, the first being Wright's upbringing in the South, and the latter half detailing his young adult life in the North (Chicago).
***SMALL SPOILERS BELOW***The overall content of the book details Wright's learning to read at a young age, his hunger and desire to use this ability, and its eventually leading to his desire to write.
But they had never been able to conquer their fear of the individual way in which I acted and lived, an individuality which life had seared into my life and bones" 363Part of what makes this book so riveting is Richard's individualistic nature.
There is an interesting observation Wright makes that I believe does not stand today; "I knew, as I watched [a Communist party trial], that I was looking at the future of mankind, that this way of living would finally win out.
Recently, I had to organize my book collection at my family home and came across the Harper Perennial Centennial edition of Black Boy.I read it these past two weeks and the scenes and the images took a strong hold in my mind that I became very unsettled and had to take breaks from reading it.
From the first scene when Richard accidentally sets fire to the house, to his days of being a drunkard to what he did to the poor kitten, it was very hard to read it.
Richard's experiences under Jim Crow South is necessary reading for understanding the black experience in America.
This book caused me to question and think about life and the issues that seem to always recur.
I remember thinking that he just couldn't get a break from any hardships but he sure didn't seem to stop them either.The second half of the book, especially when he started to get involved in communism, got a little boring or hard to keep track of because it was more of his thoughts than of the past.
There were also some parts where I just couldn't keep track of the characters, especially his large family.Overall, this was an enjoyable read that surprised me.
