https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/547162.Prince_of_Foxes
Prince of Foxes is a rare book that succeeds both in creating a dramatic story with compelling characters as well as perfectly capturing the tone of the age.
The first volume of Prince of Foxes had a quite separate personality from what would follow later, changes manifested not just by character growth but a different look at the world the characters live in that encourages the reader to continuously re-analyze the setting and actors within it.
At final analysis, the setting is the gem of Prince of Foxes.
An old-fashioned adventure story, this book features a Marty Stu who may be implausibly gifted, but is vastly entertaining to watch.
It's refreshing in an old-fashioned way.Camilla, the love interest, is slightly grating in that she was written in 1947 and it does show.
Also, there's an unfortunate midget who gets similar treatment, although she's at least credited with an adult intelligence even if she's literally treated as a plaything.
If you can skim over these bits, realizing that it's an unfortunate historical legacy that mars an otherwise entertaining story, then brace yourself and read away.
It sort of reminded me of The Three Musketeers, only less bravado and sword play, with more mind games and politics.Watching the development of the main character was never boring, and the plot had so many little (and sudden) twists and details that I was constantly entertained.
The characters were well developed, as were their motives and corresponding actions.
Sure there is action and adventure, but the beauty of it lies the the subtle and more silent 'affairs' and those are certainly talked over plenty.I feel richer for reading this book, and look forward to reading it again some years down the road if leisure permits.
I don't know why I started reading it but it was probably because I read Mario Puzo's dreadful pornographic version of the Borgias (and sometimes I still struggle to forget that read it) and as I scanned the intro I thought this might prove to be an antidote.The book was originally published in 1947 and I was reading a new edition in 2002.
Blacksmiths in proto-Indo-European cultures were often crippled to prevent escape."One anti-factoid: Shellabarger describes the sliver of the new moon rising in the east in the evening and compares it to the golden hair of his heroine.
It feels like quite some time since I've felt compelled to write a review, but I simply must talk about Prince of Foxes.This was sublimely entertaining.
And the exhilarating exploits of Andrea Orsini and (my darling son) Mario Belli have been the perfect balm.Andrea, the crafty Prince of Foxes, seems at first very one dimensional.
Gosh but there are so many fantastic characters in this story!
But most of all, I REALLY liked Angela Borgia, she was full of wonderful menance and cunning.
I remember a few years ago this book was obtainable for free. The publication date was years and years ago, the author was long dead so there shouldn't have been a copyright issue.Now a lot of the free ebook site that used to be around have folded or have SFA content and i cant find a copy anywhere on the web. Pretty disgusted with greedy companies getting extensions on copyright which should have run out years ago. Unless it's going to fund a children's hospital, would never ever purchase such a book.
Oh Goodreads, you know me so well. This book appeared on my Recommendations over and over again because of "Your Interest in Historical Fiction" so I finally said OK, OK, I'll read it. Stop nagging. Italian Renaissance. Strong, inspirational, and independent-minded heroine. Courageous and dashing hero who fights on the side of right. Sidekick who appears to be a bad guy but deep down is a good guy. What could be better?You were right, Goodreads. I loved it.
One of the best books I have ever read! Written by the Author of "Captain From Castille" and set in Italy in 1500. A swashbuckling adventure filled with twists and turns that keep you guessing. The main character, Andrea Orsini, is a brilliant man, whom I grew to love as he transformed throughout the novel. It wasn't a book I was able to read in a day or two. It was wonderfully long - so that you really feel a sense of the people's lives. I was sad when it ended.
This reading experience is one for the ages. I found the book without a back or cover page, had NO idea what it was about, and sat down and read, enthralled. Throughout I was amazed by the writing and the story, but I kept on waiting for the disappointment. I thought that I found it at the end, but instead it was a beautiful tweak that brought everything together perfectly.
Love this book. I found it in the 25 cent rack at the local public library about five years. This book is an intelligent adventure read set in the time of Borgias. Lots of intrigue. After reading this book I went and hunted down all of his other works. :)
One of my all-time favorites.
Prince of Foxes is an excellent historical novel set it Italy during the time of Cesare Borgia. This is even better than Shellabarger's The Captain of Castile, another great novel.
This was a very interesting piece of historical fiction.
This does not follow the formulaic traditions of typical storytelling.
The most interesting and complex characters were the women.
I love how they were not restricted to the standard two dimensional, swooning, fawning, damsels in distress roles.
In fact they were usually the ones threatening and often manipulating the situation.
This was a delightful change and I was also pleasantly surprised that Cesare Borgia (the Borgias were the powerful 15th century family ruling Valencia) was not the only complex personality, turns out that the majority of the characters were dynamic.
This is a book I read many years ago when I was in my early teens.
Prince of Foxes is a fairly easy read.
It made the overall reading experience better as sometimes the plot felt a bit slow at times.
And while this was a bit boring at times, that he could do everything so well, he never comes off as being too egotistical.
All of them come together very nicely to form a good story.In the end I gave Prince of Foxes 3 stars on Goodreads.
If you enjoy hero's journey stories you will probably enjoy this one.
Anyone else read books by Samuel Shellabarger?
Twists and turnsA well-plotted novel, leaning toward melodrama. Held my interest throughout. There is some drama in the tussle between traditional, material ambition and a deeper sense of happiness that comes from honesty.
Deepminded historic novellaItalian middle-age adventure with a nice mix of made up persons and actual historic events. The author knows how to bring the city-states of Venice, Ferrara and Rome to life.
Beautiful writing. The kind of book that used to be read when writing was an art.
Read this book ages ago ... picked it up again. Still a well written historical novel I loke very much.
But while he is satisfied to stay in Cesare's service when it suits him, when it gets a little too personal, well, he takes a stand for better or worse.Prince of Foxes is historical romance at its best.
Andrea Orsini is a great little hero.
Bandit!" but he said merely, "Divine genius is well put.""And let me tell you," smiled Orsini, "that he is not the monster that you people of Venice make him.
A valiant prince...I'd wager you'd love him, Messer Lorenzo, unless you stood in his ways.""Probably," said Lorenzo, doubting it.
Orsini and Belli also make quite the team, and it was captivating how we were always left wondering whose side Belli was really on, or if he was on no side but just went with whatever suited him best.The descriptions throughout the book were excellent, and I got a good sense of the time period and the people (some historical, like the Borgias's) within it.
And even though the main characters are those with high political power, we still get a sense of the life common people lived in this time, indeed, even though we don't see it first hand, we get a good sense of the transition Andrea made from peasant to high-ranking soldier/lieutenant who manages to best even Cesare Borgias.
Published in 1947, it contains tons of words that in today's literature are uncommon, making it like unto a fun read AND a language lesson.While a good tale, I found a few moments to be on the dry side.
Alas, in the end, the moments that were dry left me in a position where I saw no alternative other than to rate the book 4 stars rather than 5.Special note: I found this book while looking for works similar to that of Rafael Sabatini.
The point is, if you love Sabatini and are looking for something similar, Shellabarger would not be my first recommendation.
Written in 5 sections, each based on the setting, the book follows 2 years in the life of Andrea Orsini, a man pursuing fame and fortune in Renaissance Italy.
Orsini is a master at plotting and serving the various princes of the squabbling cities of Italy, changing sides to his best advantage.
Remember, this was the age of Machiavelli - and Andrea seems to follow his tenets.
Over the course of the story, however, Orsini's character changes.
The book paints a detailed picture of its setting and the the age, and weaves in real people - like the Borgia family - along with the fictional characters.
This is the sort of book which begins slowly and builds to a great conclusion.
Samuel Shellabarger var en amerikansk författare som gav ut denna historiska roman i USA 1947 med titeln "Prince of foxes".
Huvudpersonen heter Andrea Orsini och han är intressant nog en riktig "renässansmänniska".Shellabarger var inspirerad av bland andra Alexandre Dumas, vilket nog märks ganska tydligt.Att läsa boken var för mig ganska frustrerande, Skälmarnas furste är den typen av bok som är tillräckligt bra för att man skall vilja läsa vidare, men också tillräckligt dålig för att det ofta skall kännas ganska segt.
Så även om det var en okej läsupplevelse så tror jag inte jag kommer att läsa något mer av Shellabarger.
Ambientato negli anni dell'effimera gloria di Cesare Borgia, detto il Valentino, figlio di Papa Alessandro VI, il romanzo di Samuel Shellabarger ha per protagonista Andrea Orsini, valente e poliedrico uomo di fiducia del Valentino che tuttavia, innamoratosi di Camilla Baglioni, signora di Città del Monte, prende via via le distanze dal suo signore, ne diventa acerrimo nemico e sposa la causa di chi lo avversa e lo combatte.
La positiva figura di Andrea Orsini è il perfetto collante che rende questo libro una gradevole e interessante lettura in perfetto equilibrio tra storia e fantasia.
The story is set in Renaissance Italy and concerns young and handsome Andrea Orsini, captain in the service of the evil and powerful Cesare Borgia.
Borgia intends to advance on the independent cities of Italy in the spring and unite Italy under his banner.
Borgia assigns the ambitious and talented Andrea Orsini to present himself to the Duke of the city and ingratiate himself there, and then arrange for the removal of the aged Duke by the spring advance.
If he succeeds, Borgia has promised Orsini the city and the beautiful young wife of the old Duke for himself.
I love this book.If you love classic swashbucklers, be prepared to miss some sleep--Prince of Foxes is hard to put down.This is historical fiction at its best, in the vein of Rafael Sabatini. Set in the time of Machiavelli's The Prince, it tells the story of a peasant who passes himself off as an aristocrat and sets about making his way in Renaissance Italy--but some complications change his plans.A great read if you like classic historical fiction.
Good Story #13. ========I absolutely love this author's historical fiction and this is my favorite of his books. This description doesn't do it justice but it is a beginning.Set in Renaissance Italy, this classic of American popular fiction is the story of Andrea Orsini, a peasant boy who rises to perform delicate political, military, and romantic missions for Cesare Borgia.
This was one of the best books I have ever read!
If you are a fan of historical adventure stories (think Hornblower, Beau Geste, Northwest Passage, Ivanhoe, to mention but a few) you will love this book.
The historical detail was completely correct and compelling, but the true strength of the book is in the characters and the rollicking good story.
It does not flag for an instant and is great up through the very last line, which is really saying something.
The movie with Tyrone Power was very good too, although it had to leave out a great deal of detail.
While this book is older than I am, I found it a most enjoyable story!It follows Andrea Orsini through old world Italy. I enjoyed the intrigue, planning and plotting. The characters are rich and realistic. It was interesting to see the ties and repeated associations between characters...to wonder who were truly allies, and who would stay or become enemies.Well worth finding a copy and reading it!
