https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/131693.A_House_for_Hermit_Crab
At the beginning of the year, Hermit Crab finds his current shell is too small. He ventures out in search of a new one, only to discover that it is drab. Carle takes the reader along throughout the months, as Hermit Crab decorates and finds protection for his new house. By the end of the year, the shell has become too small again, forcing him to make a significant decision. Neo has long been an Eric Carle fan and liked the colours and less than mainstream illustrating.
Hermit Crab realizes he has outgrown his shell and has to find a new one.
Hermit Crab knows he must find a new home straight away because his home keeps him save in the open sea.
He is met by all kinds of friends who help make his new home beautiful.
Instead of sitting safely in his plain home Hermit Crab ventures out and makes friends, lives life and makes a creates a lovely home in the process!
The book goes throught the months of the year and by the end of the book in November he has outgrown his beautiful, new shell that his new friends have decorated.
This repetitive story about a hermit crab moving into a new shell has a great rhythm and also provides opportunities to practice counting and identification of new creatures.Everyone here really liked this and I think we'll soon add it to our home library.
A very fun book about a hermit crab who is trying to decorate his shell. A creative book that promotes creativity.
What a brilliant way to explain symbiotic relationships in the ocean. Dig it!
Text-to-Self Connection:"A House for Hermit Crab" is a cute little story that definitely relates to me! I am always looking for things and such to decorate my house with. Every time I see something, I want it just like the Hermit Crab. I am constantly on the look out for new items to grab as well as bargain items to refresh old ones. Sometimes I begin to wonder if I am a hoarder with all the decor, but I really enjoy being crafty and decorating plain items and making them new.
An excellent allegory for change. Eric Carle is a legend.
The crab then goes out to find his next home and is excited by the idea of decorating a new place!This is a perfect book to share with a class of students of any age at the beginning or end of the school year.
At the beginning of the year, the message to students would be that when you treat each other with respect and are kind to each other, you will more easily make and keep life-long friends, just as the hermit crab did.
Until his cozy quarters become too cramped and again, coming full circle, he has to let go of the shell (along with the comfort of the sweet and familiar)."I couldn't stay in that little shell forever," said Hermit Crab as he waved goodbye.The ocean floor looked wider than he had remembered, but Hermit Crab wasn't afraid....."Sponges!" he thought.
I learned a lot about hermit crabs too (stuff I didn't know - I'd actually never heard of a hermit crab until reading the book) and the illustrations are attractive and easy to follow.
A House for Hermit Crab is a delightful story about under the sea friendship.
Hermit Crab feels that his shell is too plain and enlists the help of sea creatures such as anemones and urchins to help him spruce it up, protect, and light it.
At the end of the story, Hermit Crab graciously passes his shell on to another crab in need.
This story has beautiful illustrations, a positive message about working together and being kind to those in need, as well as exciting new ocean animal names with accurate scientific descriptions in the back of the book for reference.
Re-read - This book has grown on me over the years. I read it again this week to my littlest and she loved it. Perfect book as we continue our arthopods study unit. Such a good story of making friends, being kind, sharing, and not being afraid of change. My daughter now wants a hermit crab of her own. Overall, this is another beautiful read from Eric Carle. Also I changed my star rating to 5 stars instead of 4.
My students are reading all about habitats, so this is a great book for that topic. It is very cute!
In an incredibly engaging and wonderful story, Hermit Crab realizes he has outgrown his shell home and begins the journey to find a new one.
He travels the ocean floor and meets new friends along the way as they help him create an original masterpiece of a home.
The book goes through the sequence of the months of the year, a great tool for younger readers, and by November, Hermit Crab has outgrown his home again.
He leaves his beautiful home to someone who promises to take care of it and his new friends as he ventures out to begin a new journey.

Hermit Crab has outgrown his shell and needs to go looking for a new one.
He finally found a shell that fit, but it was quite plain.
They would help decorate, protect, clean, and light up his new house.
However, November rolled by and Hermit Crab’s shell was feeling too small.
He gave his beautiful home to a smaller crab that was looking for a shell.
Hermit Crab went looking for a bigger shell and found the perfect house, but it was a bit too plain.
It’s time for him to go looking for new decorations to spruce up his home!
I liked how the book had a good flow and kept a rhythm.
The book is easy for a child to follow and comprehend.
Although, the book is kind of lengthy which could make the child become bored.
The author used a lot of dialogue which makes the book easy to act out and use different voices with to keep children interesting.
The target age of this book would be between 5-8.
Since it is important for children to learn about making new friends, I think this book does a great job showing children how to continue making new friends everyday.
I was worried after reading my first two Eric Carle selections this year that my decision to read as many of his books as possible was a mistake. However, this book changed my mind and buoyed my spirits. A House for Hermit Crab is an enchanting story of cooperation, kindness, codependency and growth. It can be used in a variety of ways in a classroom, including as an introduction to various parts of speech and as a step into scientific habitats.
I was recommended this book because of the illustrations. I love this author and liked how the hermit made friends with all the animals. I also liked the theme that you stay with other people no matter what. I would use this book for 3rd grade but could use the book for read aloud at any grade level.
I like this book because he tried to find a shell; he found a shell in January and it looked very plain and he found lots of people on the way and he decorated on his house. He walked along and the shell got too big and he found some rocks and he asked "Do you mind if I arrange you?" and they said "not at all!"
A House For Hermit Crab is a cute adventure about a hermit crab outgrowing his shell and setting out to find a new one and making it his own. The story can be related to a child growing up and moving on to their next classroom grade, a transition that can be a little sad, but with exciting new possibilities.
This book could be used in science, writing or art. There are several facts about hermit crabs that could grab the students attention. There are also many different sea creatures introduced. Students can talk about new words they leaned and work on predicting what will happen. Students could also learn to draw their own hermit crab and decorate its shell.
I have very mixed feelings about this book. The hermit crab does choose a few friends on more than looks. It does teach a lesson on moving on. Still, it just seems mean to me. These creatures left their families!
Classic Eric Carle: bright colors and a story that grows as it's told - and then could continue beyond the end. Growth isn't a bad thing, look at all the new friends Hermit Crab met on the way to his new space and as he sought to make his home beautiful. It's not so different for people.
A hermit crab goes and looks for ways to decorate his new shell.I don't like many Eric Carle books, but I did like this one. It's a little bit wordier than some, but I think that the story and sentiment are great.
A House for Hermit Crab is about the twelve months, about symbiosis, about creativity, and about adapting to growth and change. Each one of Eric Carle's books express a different aspect of learning for students and I feel as though they are related to a student's interests whatever that might be.
Love the art style of Eric Carle's books. My three-year-old son was fascinated with the many sea creatures who volunteered to help the hermit crab decorate his home. It would be a great book to use to help a young child cope with moving.
This book is interesting and I know more sea creatures than I knew earlier. It is colourful and has an interesting storyline. I loved the colourful illustrations. The board book is of a comfortable size and easy to flip and navigate through.
Growing up, Eartha Kitt's rendition of this story on Reading Rainbow was just about my favorite thing in the whole world. Having read it again as an adult I find that I adore it just as much. But I still heard Eartha Kitt's voice in my mind as I read it. Love her.
I have always loved this story but it has been years since I have read it. It will be an excellent addition to my classroom library. I love how it integrates the months of the year, sea life, and how we all grow and evolve. Eric Carle never disappoints!!
A hermit crab who has outgrown his old shell moves into a new one, which he decorates and enhances with the various sea creatures he meets in his travels.Beautiful illustrations.
