https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40669824-kinfolk
Buck narrates this story quite well mixing her usual peaceful, Zen-like writing combined with a somewhat modern feel which artfully brings the conflict of the novel to life both in terms of plot and prose.
Once James (and eventually the other siblings) relocates to China; Buck alternates narration and points-of-view between characters and of life in America occurring simultaneously with that in China.
“Kinfolk” is a moving story while also encourages the reader to ‘think’ and explore his/her own feelings.
“Kinfolk” is suggested for avid Buck readers and fans of Chinese-cultural novels.
The story centers on one extended family and the trials and travails of four of that family who return to China while it is effectively disintegrating.
The way in which the author did that emphasized a bit of the downside of that way of thought and the effect it had on China.
It is also a study in what it was and to perhaps some extent still is to be Chinese.Pearl Buck was a gifted writer.
She remains one of most authentic chroniclers of Chinese life during the time that saw the end of imperial China.
Once again Pearl Buck's book did not disappoint. Such real character (except for the younger sister in this book) and a story line that does not go the way one expects it to go. After finishing the book I still think of these people and their lives and choices.
Pearl Buck never disappoints. Her prose is not fancy, but so perfectly descriptive it is like watching a movie. I fell in love with the Liang family.
This is my favorite book by Pearl Buck so far. It is the story of an ex-patriot Chinese family before World War II. The parents left China with two young children. The children return to their ancestral village when they are grown. Pearl Buck understands both cultures so well and the vagaries and conflict when the two meet and co-mingle. Each character is beautifully and fully drawn in all their complexities. I highly recommend this book.
Beautiful story of a family returning to China and connecting with their homeland. I love the author and this book is written so well it makes it a joy to read. the story is well told without a lot of extraneous fluff, but still vivid enough to see the world unfold in the pages.
Is this novel how Pearl Buck supposed China would recover after World War II?
Written before the Communist victory and ouster of Chiang Kai-shek from the Chinese mainland, Kinfolk and Buck underestimate the ferocity of the forces of revolution that would sweep away her beloved traditions forever.
At any rate, the comedic tone of the novel is given free rein, so much so that the one notable death is almost treated dismissively.How much of Chinese culture and society do we understand from Buck's novels?
I do know we come to quite a clear understanding of Pearl Buck's understanding of Chinese culture.
It beautifully depicts the lives and conflicts of a Chinese family who emigrated to America in the late 1940s and the Chinese -American young people who returned to China during this period of great upheaval.I couldn't have read it at a better time.
Over a month ago I went to an interesting lecture about China from after WWII to the present, and then read a biography of an American who was in China during those years and married into an aristocratic Chinese family.
Some events in both books take place in the same locations and depict the huge turmoil, breakdown and social change in China during that period.
Love, love, love Pearl S. Buck's writing!!! This book was on my Kindle and I had already read it once. But needed something to do while waiting for an appointment. Ended up reading the entire thing again!! If you liked Good Earth, you will like this one as well.
So Wonderful!I’d forgotten how much I love Pearl S Buck! Such a master at peeling back the layers of a family, of the characters, culture(s) and times. I’m still marveling at how you realize the true roles each member of the family plays.
I don't know how I missed this one way back when. It's an awesome read.
I somehow missed this Pearl Buck book back when I read everything she wrote. I enjoyed it - interesting story of a Chinese family in the U.S. in the 1940s.
She knows the hearts of the Chinese people, both the upper class landowners and the peasants.In the Liang family there is a description of the "roles" in society for men and women in the parents, and the four children who grew up in New York, James, Louise, Mary, and Peter.
There were plenty of servants in China and so what was the use of teaching Lili to do things she would never have to do?Mrs Liang: When they were first married he had been very thin and tall and to her surprise he wept when anything was hard.
When all went well with her, she could be good, but the soil in her heart was shallow, and goodness was a plant that must have deep roots with which to live." The story is about a Chinese family living in New York City: The father is a scholar; Mrs. Liang is a simple woman and his wife by an arranged marriage; and their four grown children.
The eldest two, James and Mary, very much feel a hole in their American lives and want to return to China to get meaning from their lives.
This was in so many ways a 5-star book.
But--like "Peony," also by Buck--it took a long time for me to get really into it--which is a funny thing to say, because I cared about the characters almost from the beginning.The main thing I couldn't get past was in connection with Peter's death--shot in the head and tossed into a well with other corpses.
That being said, I would have loved a sequel to the book--what became of the three remaining kids, and such, especially at the time it all took place (Communists not yet in charge throughout the land).
Pearl Buck was the first "adult" writer that I read.
I felt like I was watching a movie in my mind instead of reading a book.
Above all, her characters always feel like having something unique, something in between cultures (usually American and Chinese) which are beautifully portraid in her books.In "Kinfolk" we get acquainted with a Chinese family in New York.
The father, a distinguished scholar, has exilated himself (and his family) from a turbulent China in order to be able to pursue his academic career and philosophical/poetic writings.
salah satu buku favoritku.Berikut kutipan dari cover belakang buku:"Aku bercita-cita bisa membangun rumah sakit yang besar dan modern disana, yang mampu menampung orang sakit..."JAMES LIANG - seorang dokter bedah muda yang brilian - memutuskan meninggalkan kehidupannya yang mewah di Amerika dan kembali ke Cina untuk membaktikan diri dan mencari akar dirinya di desa leluhurnya.
Namun sesampainya disana, James menyadari bahwa penduduk desa takut padanya dan cara-caranya yang asing, dan tak terjembatani bagi James untuk memahami dan menggapai mereka.
Dibantu oleh adik dan teman-temannya, James berjuang sampai akhirnya ia menemukan titian yang sanggup menghubungkan dirinya dengan rakyat bangsanya...Didalamnya banyak kisah dan hikmah, romans, idealisme, psikologi, ....Salah satu episode romans yang ku sukai adalah tentang kisah cinta James.
Buck's, The Good Earth.
This was equally as good.
A story about a Chinese family, Liang, living in NYC.
The two oldest children long to return to China, which they feel is really where there roots belong.
Their father, a well known scholar and speaker, has no interest to return due to the fame and comforts found in America, plus the threat of Communism spreading in China.
The two youngest children, born in the United States, have no interest in their family's country.
Their journies all different and affected to their 'coming home'.
Very different worlds, to some degree.
This one was a bit different in that she portrayed the coming of modern times and people to ancient China, and what happens when a homeland is romanticized without presenting the reality of it's condition.
The story is about a Chinese family with 4 children, two born in China and the others after moving to the US.
It addresses the conflicts of the old and new in oriental culture, and the desire for change and frustration in dealing with traditions that do have some value.
It made me wish a bit for more traditions in our culture, such as valuing our elders and family relationships more and living in close community with others.
This story covers the coming-of-age of four American-raised Chinese young people in the early 1900's.
James, a talented young surgeon, decides to devote his life to serving the poor in China, and his siblings follow him.
His teacher-sister Mary is equally devoted, but their younger brother Peter is disillusioned by the China he sees & listens sympathetically to the growing communist party.
The youngest sister, Louise, has become very westernized & can imagine no home for herself but America.
The story paints an interesting picture of how these brothers & sisters struggle to find their own identity in a world that is no longer simple.
Absolutely amazing. It took a while to get into because I wasn't used to a Pearl Buck book being set partially in the US, but I loved how she wove different cultures and generational differences in. The pull between young vs old and tradition vs modern was present without, and I grew with the characters as they grew, matured, and learned about themselves. All of the characters have depth and you can see the events from their perspective easily, even if you may not agree with their choices. I was incredibly pleased with the dynamism of Mrs. Liang.
*3.6 stars*I really don't get why people make such a fuss over Pearl S. Buck."Kinfolk" was a well written story about a Chinese-American family, and each character's relationship with his or her roots. Decently written, but nothing mind boggling. At no point was I surprised by the path the story took, and the prose wasn't even compelling enough to make up for that. Frankly I've read better novels.
This is a wonderfully told story of immigrants, of home-land and of 'home' -- in the end, not a place but the person in whom you sink your roots. Ms. Buck brought each character and their story to life and wove them all together brilliantly. Reading this (1948) book we now know the brutality that will come to the Chinese people. Ms. Buck gave me a sense of a China standing on the abyss with tpeople that I respect and enjoy.From my mother's bookshelf.
A Story for All Ages Pearl Buck describes each character in Kinfolk with clarity and love. Her story covers both the U.S. and China.It grabs the reader immediately leading him into the lives of a Cinese family who immigrated. The second generation returning to the homeland with hopes of improving the lives of the people.
Using a six-members family, the author shows the same reality from very different sides: some love America, some love China, some are fearful, some are dreamy...All the main characters are well developed and all have their protectionism.In spite of that that, she manages to tell the story clearly and interesting, jumping from one vision to the other smoothly.
Another Buck BookThis Buck book is interesting because it describes the lives of Chinese youths raised in the U.S., who return to postwar China. It's as dreamy and sentimental as her other books, which is why I love and hate her stuff. Still, an enjoyable read.
Another great novel by Pearl Buck. I don't know how she was able to consistently write with such depth and with timeless lessons of life. Read this one to learn more about cross-cultural experiences and of course, the history of China.
Chinese culture with goodI enjoyed reading of pre-communist China. The culture shock to American raised Chinese to return seems real. Are there really people willing to give up comfort to help their fellow countrymen?
If you have never read a novel by Pearl S. Buck, this would be a good start. Of course, a person must read The Good Earth. It is very interesting to hear about the Chinese culture. It was so different from the West.
This book was so culturally fascinating . It was poetic at times and cherishes goodness .Bridges and roots seem to be a theme . It book was like traveling to another country another In Time period and I loved every moment in time
