https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2108229.En_flyktning_krysser_sitt_spor
I'm pretty certain if I'd been told to read this book at the time, I probably would have let my bias get the best of me and not liked it.
In fact, Sandemose, through Arnakke, specifically tells us: this is not a unique story, if you think it is: you're daft.
This book was published in the 1930s (I don't know how long Sandemose had been working on it), and the atmosphere of the time shines through.
A minor caveat is that I don't know whether the English translation is any good: I speak English and Norwegian fluently, and I struggled with the ambiguity of the language when translating sections for my article.
This book is the origin of Jante's Law.The rules are as follows: You're not to think you are anything special.
You're not to think you are smarter than us.
You're not to convince yourself that you are better than us.
You're not to think you know more than us.
You're not to think you are more important than us.
You're not to think you are good at anything.
You're not to think you are good at anything.
You're not to laugh at us.
You're not to think anyone cares about you.
You're not to think you can teach us anything.
Jante's law has got a life on its own and became much more famous than the book it comes from.
A reader often knows the law way before the cover page is turned over.
So there is a danger that when you finally get to this novel there are already Jante-related images in your head that are not going to be confirmed by the text.
I had some questions about the law that I hoped would be answered by the book.
If during the reading I could stop hoping that on the next page I would get answers, I would have enjoyed this precise psychological analysis of the small closed societies much more.
På den eine sida vil eg gi denne boka fem stjerner. Beskrivelsen av det vonde og groteske i mennesket er utruleg bra, og minnar meg til tider om Steinbeck (dog ikkje like bra). Men boka vart for langdryg. Etter fyrste tredjedel vart det mykje drøvtygging, og eg tok meg sjølv i å berre ønskja at boka snart var ferdig.
The book in which Sandemose created the Law of Jante: the pattern of group behaviour towards individuals within Scandinavian communities that negatively portrays and criticises individual success and achievement as unworthy and inappropriate. Depressing, but true.
Fascinated by the concept of "Jante" while living in Norway, I tried to read this book in original language two years ago. That was probably a mission too hard to accomplish for me.
I have gotten a bit hooked on hygge and the read Michael Booth's 'The Almost Nearly Perfect People: Behind the Myth of the Scandinavian Utopia' and its reference to Aksel Sandemose's "A Fugitive Crosses the Tracks".
I tracked it down through interlibrary loan from Monmouth College.
It was more than a bit of plow through read, and I can certainly verify that the oppressive authoritarian culture highlighted made reading it so challenging.
What most struck me was that the heavy hand of adult society and religion so unkindly depicted made one question the celebration of the calm community of hygge.
I utgangspunktet hadde jeg ingen anselse om hva den handlet om, eller hva jeg kunne forvente meg annet enn at dette var boka uttrykket Janteloven kom fra, og også at denne boka er berømt nettopp fordi den beskriver dette fenomenet.Jeg var også fullt klar over at dette egentlig er bok nummer to om Espen Arnakke, men valgte å se bort fra dette og gikk egentlig utifra at det gikk fint an å lese denne boka uten å ha noe som helst kunnskaper om den første boka, og de første par kapitlene bekreftet at denne gikk helt fint.Romanen åpner med en bekjennelse fra fortelleren, Espen Arnakke selv:Nu vil jeg fortelle alt.[…]Jeg slo engang et menneske ihjel.Gjennom romanens løp går Espen gjennom sin barndom og barndomsminner i et forsøk på å finne ut hvordan han kunne bli i stand til å ta livet av et annet menneske.
Finished Dec 28, 2013Book was interesting, though not particularly compelling. Liked: Laws of Jante, idea that "morals are for those who know where their next meal is coming from" (paraphrasing...towards end of book), criticism of "idyllic childhood" myth.
did not finish, a disappointment.
Siirrän kirjan odottamaan aikoja parempia...
