https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/185528.Green_Dolphin_Street
I couldn't ever say that I liked her, but I could understand who she was and why she spoke and acted as she did, and I believed in her; as I did in William and Marguerite.There is a wonderful supporting cast whose stories are woven around the stories of those three, and that did much to make the world in this book live and breathe.Elizabeth Goudge wrote that she never travelled to New Zealand, and that she researched as much as she could and imagined the rest.
However, her sister Marguerite falls in love with him as well, a pure, giving love that asks for nothing in return.
After emigrating to New Zealand to make a new life for himself as an adult, he writes home to ask his love to join him in the New World -- except he mixes up the names of the sisters.
And finally at the end, the one who had thought she had lost it all years and years ago, and had been living a lie all this time, realizes instead that she's been given an incredible gift -- and it is the making of her.This book is very long, true.
Too painful.Baby, I finished the book, and I'm sorry you weren't here with me for the ending.
It ended as well as it began, but, like real life, with some sadness picked up along the journey that we have to carry with us.I want to trumpet as much as I can the greatness of this book.
I don't know why this book isn't huge.
This is my all time favorite book.
Good luck finding a copy, though.
I bought a used copy off of Amazon.Interesting fact--this book was made into a movie in the 40s, I think, staring Donna Read, Lana Turner, Van Heflen.
It is reasonable good.I read it first in the 90s but reread it about a year ago.
Still as good as I remember it.
Don't expect a quick and easy read.
The characters are complex and it covers a long period of time.Basic plot is of two sisters, both in love with one man.
Read the book and find out.
I almost never read books that follow the the protagonist(s) from childhood to old age -- they always sound a bit dull, honestly -- but I was fascinated by the evolution of the very different physical and yet very similar spiritual lives of Marianne, Marguerite, and William.
Again, a story that follows three characters through almost their whole lives doesn't sound particularly great to me, but while Green Dolphin Street is a) pretty long and b) heavy on descriptive passages and c) more about spiritual journeys than catastrophes and dramatic events (there are catastrophes and dramatic events, they're just not the focus, in my opinion), it still pulled me in.
I have read it COUNTLESS times and each time I read it again I fall into the world in its pages and find it hard to come out on the last page.
The characters make you fall in love with them, or hate them...
this sounds like a fairly generic statement but rarely do I feel anything when reading a book, this one was most certainly an exception.
so much could be said about them, I feel that the emotions of the characters was expressed PERFECTLY.
This book stays beside my bed, its hard to find these days and it is one of my prized possessions.
In your typical love story, girl meets boy and they fall in love, but some obstacle springs up, such as a misunderstanding, or another woman. Eventually the obstacle is overcome, however, and they declare their love and live happily ever after. But what if things don’t work out that way? What if the boy hopelessly botches things and accidentally marries the wrong girl? Can it still be a love story? Green Dolphin Street is tender, funny, wrenching, and vivid, and it will weave its exquisite spell on you while it challenges and enriches your understanding of real love.
This book was referred to me by my dear college roomie Diane, who was killed in an auto accident this past January.
Although a fictional storyline it is based on the true experience of a man in the 1800's, writing to the father of his childhood sweetheart, asking that she be allowed to join him as wife in a new country, but he accidentally writes her sister's name, and it is the "wrong" sister who is sent.
Much of the second half of the book was set in mid-century New Zealand, as it was being developed by euro-settlers, with some related, violent clashes in the storyline.
This book has strong character portraits, with the caste often asking deep spiritual and philosophical questions about God, having a relationship with God, religion, love, salvation, merit, worth, even martyrdom.
(By gad, begod, begorra are used numerous times throughout the book.)Scatological Terms - 9 Incidents: bl**dyDerogatory Terms - 14 Incidents: n*gg*rs, *ss, Ch*nk, J*pConversation Topics - 5 Incidents: This book has strong character portraits, with the caste often asking deep spiritual and philosophical questions about God, having a relationship with God, religion, love, salvation, merit, worth, martyrdom; as well as showing the caste's querying pursuits for redemption, love and peace by various means.
Not my favourite Elizabeth Goudge. But still
I am a fan of Elizabeth Goudge, but this is not my favorite book … While she still writes so beautifully throughout the novel, I grew tired of Marianne's obsession with the object of her desire.
The focal point of the novel, page after page, is Marianne and her obsession.
I was trudging through the book … I ended up putting it aside a few times to pick up something else… not a good sign… However, I remain a fan of Miss Goudge - she is a remarkable writer.
What a bizarre and unfortunate mistake to make! Elizabeth Goudge is always a lovely read despite being not exactly modern and unfashionably nice! I forgave her for all errors about NZ - she made it clear she had never been here.
4.5 Stars (maybe even 5) Even though I've heard great things about Elizabeth Goudge for years, this is the first book of hers that I've read.
She's a great story teller and wordsmith, and even though one character infuriated me at times, I loved this book.
When a woman is fifty-six years old and for twenty-four years has endured the rigors of pioneering in a new country, she is no longer in any danger of vanity when she looks in the glass, but she needs to see herself from every angle if her façade of dignity is to be equally impressive to the beholder whether he beholds from north, south, east, or west." "...
It's awesome that the book is inspired by a story of two sisters who meet on a rock and kiss, something like that.
We wanted William and Marguerite to end up together.
Gone now was the round, fat little Marguerite of the past.
'Why!' she ejaculated in astonishment, 'I do believe I'm beautiful!' 'Very conceited of you to say so,' said Marianne tartly, thrusting a dainty little foot out of bed.
The credit is God's, and I like to give credit where it is due.' 'Now you're being irreverent,' said Marianne, feeling for her bedroom slippers.
'Not at all,' said Marguerite.
This book introduced me to Elizabeth Goudge.
After reading the book, I scoured the library for more by the same author .
I was lucky enough to have a mother who also loved reading, and she purchased others.
She introduced me to a world I didn't know existed, and I've been a bit of an Anglophile ever since!
Goudge's books are notably Christian in outlook, containing such themes as sacrifice, conversion, discipline, healing, and growth through suffering.
Whether written for adults or children, the same qualities pervade Miss Goudge's work and are the source of its appeal to readers of all ages, but most especially girls and women.
Marianne was a fiery independent woman, who would not have been out of place in the 21st century.
Her gentle sister Marguerite had more old-fashioned qualities.
When William had successfully made a life for himself in New Zealand, he decided to write home to St. Pierre in Guernsey, and ask for the hand of the woman he loved.
The woman he loved was gentle Marguerite.
She had no idea that she was not the bride her husband had in mind until they returned to Guernsey.The scene where she confronts her sister Marguerite with her knowledge that she was the wrong bride is one of my favorites.
On second thought, I liked it remarkably well considering the basic premise: A man writes home asking his love to come and marry him.
This was the truth: that neither in the height of Heaven nor the depth of Sheol, neither in the farthest places of the earth nor in the uttermost parts if the sea, can a man be separated from the love of God, because like a fish in the sea or a bird in the air it is in that element alone that he lives and moves and has his being.
I started reading this book to see if it was a good fit for middle schoolers.
I am not sure how today's teens and tweens would react to this book but I was swept away by it.
The story is slow-moving at first and I wasn't immediately enamored of the characters but eventually I became completely immersed in their lives and all-too-human failings, frailties, struggles and triumphs.
The author's detailed and colorful descriptions of life in the English Channel Islands, at sea, and in New Zealand during the mid-to-late 1800s also made it easy for me to become wrapped up in this tale of love, loss and salvation.
I hesitate to give this only 3 stars, because it was so beautifully written and I even cried at the end! The setting just wasn't for me... and it was painful to watch Marianne blunder through her life. Not my favorite Goudge, but full of merit and I definitely see why people love it. Also I hope to watch the movie version someday!
And they always learn such profound things about God that you can’t help but be affected, too.Green Dolphin Country follows the lives of three people, sisters Marianne and Marguerite Le Patourel and their friend William Ozanne, from childhood to old age, beginning in 1834.
The sea is also a constant companion throughout the story: One of my favorites scenes is when Marianne and William visit a docked ship called the Green Dolphin and meet Captain O’Hara and his first mate Nat, who tell them about New Zealand.Years go by and exact changes.
This book is about various forms that love takes, and follows primarily the lives of three people -- Marguerite, Marianne, and William. One of these characters, at times, nearly drove me crazy with her selfish, controlling nature, but her journey was definitely worth taking with her. The ending of this book was deeply satisfying, and the pages were filled with truly magnificent prose.
Se numea Marianne cartea în română. Adaptare nu prea inspirată.
Such a lovely book of love, pride and ultimately forgiveness. I identified much with one of the characters in the book who wants everything to be a certain way and takes pride in that. This book really humbled me and has made me think differently about the things that are important in life!
A bestseller in its day about two sisters in love with the same man - who loves both of them. . . here is a link to my review: http://perfectretort.blogspot.com/201...
This review is rather long, even though I did cut some out, but there is so much to say.The author has amazing descriptive powers that instantly transport the reader into the scene or emotion, and the book is filled to overflowing with these stunning word portraits.There is one such passage early in the book where William is idly gazing at a magnolia tree after many stormy days, and the beauty of what he sees is captured in a few poetical sentences.
It is a story that will grip and not let go.The first part of the book is set in Guernsey, and introduces the three main characters, Marianne, her younger sister, Marguerite, and William Ozanne, son of an Island-born doctor who had returned after an absence of twenty years.
I believe the main theme of the story is how the characters, both the major and the minor, journey to find their own special place (country) in the world.
One minor character explained, "Our home, our special country, is for all of us the place where we find liberation; a very difficult word, child, that tries to describe something that can't be described but is the only thing worth having." And in another conversation a main character summarizes what was told her, "I suppose she meant that it is where our souls find it easiest to escape from self, and it seems to me it is that way with us when what is about us echoes the best that we are....
So in that way the characters are made "fit" to live in their "Green Dolphin Country" whenever they find it.
The novel shows the growth of each character--the strong though bossy Marianne, the wrong bride; Marguerite, her sister who finds peace in her life; and the feckless William, who sets the whole story in motion.The author did a marvelous job of characterization of everyone, from the three main figures to the "cameos".
That a man who emigrated to the New World should after the lapse of years write home for a bride and get the wrong one because he had confused her name with that of her sister, may seem to the reader highly improbable; yet it happened.
A novel about humans as wanderer, lover and saint.
It is rare in that it is simple (everyday experiences) and rings true yet reaches the highest quality of philosophical musings.
"The visionary is a mystic when his vision mediates to him an actuality beyond the reach of the senses.
The philosopher is a mystic when he passes beyond thought to the pure apprehension of truth.
For they that say these things, do signify that they seek a country.
But now they desire a better, that is to say, a heavenly country.
More difficult to read than her other novels, but oh, so worth it. Once again, Goudge's characters come alive, and their lives and struggles are compelling.I found myself praying desperately that I would not be a selfish, manipulative, bitter woman like Marianne. I learned a little bit more about what it means to love my neighbors- especially my husband. I took great satisfaction in the skillfully written dénouement and the redemption of her characters, now my friends. Authors like Elizabeth Goudge make reading worthwhile.
A dear friend's recent mission is to loan me all of Elizabeth Goudge's books, and I'm definitely up for the task. This is an amazing read, wonderful characters, fantastic plot, and just a delight all the way around. It's not a quick read as each paragraph is packed with details, brilliant writing, and good, meaty dialogue. The only thing that keeps it from being a five star read is that it starts a bit slow.
