https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/102324.Swamp_Thing_Vol_1
The Swamp Thing's epic run by Alan Moore begins here! This TPB Hardcover Edition collects "Swamp Thing" (Vol.2) #21-27.Creative Team:Writer: Alan MooreIllustrators: Steve Bissette & Rick Veitch A GOOD ROOT GROWS If you are a fan of Alan Moore, you must read these hardcovers editions. No question about it.For me it had been a wonderful experience. It's amazing how brilliant is the writing and how great are the events. You will never see the character of Swamp Thing in the same way, after to
This TPB Hardcover Edition collects "Swamp Thing" (Vol.2) #21-27.Creative Team:Writer: Alan MooreIllustrators: Steve Bissette & Rick Veitch
I was more than happy when DC re-published the run of Alan Moore on Swamp Thing on these elegant hardcover editions and I didn't need even a second to decide that I want to buy them.One thing that you can perceive about the personality of Alan Moore and his respect to the work of others is that precisely when he took the job to write Swamp Thing, sure he changed things, every new creative team changed things when they took over a comic book title BUT Alan Moore dedicated a whole issue to resolve and to close the previous story arcs, in rightful and respectful way.
When I was a kid, I didn't read comics.
Maybe this would be cool..." So I picked one at random off the rack, took it home, and read it.
That comic was part of Alan Moore's run on Swamp Thing.
These days, I like to consider myself fairly well-read in comics.
Looking back, it amuses me that I was lucky enough to pick up something written by Alan Moore for my first comic experience.
It's interesting to read these comics now.
That said, when you're dealing with someone like Alan Moore, even less than their best is pretty excellent.
In his unpredictability, we come to find new and inspiring sides of ourselves, and of comics, and of others.If Morrison has lived his entire career as the incorrigible teenager of comics, inspiring in his gusto but disappointing in his ego, then Moore has always been the old man of comics, a crafty wizard who knows things we don't want to know, who leads us patiently through our wide-eyed bumbling and self-absorption, past the explosions and gun battles, and into our own back yard to show us something beautiful that was there the whole time.
Consider the following:Moore's Swamp Thing had a profound effect on mainstream comic books, being the first horror comic to approach the genre from a literary point of view since the EC horror comics of the 1950s, and he broadened the scope of the series to include ecological and spiritual concerns while retaining its horror-fantasy roots - WikipediaEcological and spiritual concerns?
Nothing really, but I do think readers have to at least bear the following in mind: Alan Moore only came aboard for the second run of this series, which means that by the time this book kicks off all the fundamentals had already been covered.
That’s to say, Moore didn’t create Swamp Thing and he doesn’t tell the Origins story of the character.
So I’m split with the art – sometimes it’s hard to look at, badly rendered, or flat out too dated to be convincing, and other times I love what I’m seeing.Swamp Thing is an interesting character and kudos for Moore for elevating the tone of the stories to a higher level.
The book features some odd villains that are difficult to take seriously, and there’s no real direction for the character - I’m not sure what Swamp Thing’s purpose is - both things I’d like to see done better in later books.
I am meat.A beast of bloodWho tramplesCreatures of chlorophyll.I am violence. A rage machineWho murdersFrom birth to death.I am delusion.An equivocatorWho justifiesThe lives he ends. I am hubris.A believer in meWho knows thatElse-life is mine. I am man.I am a man. I am hu-man.I am meat.
These are psychological, often philosophical horror stories, sharp and subversive, lyrical and hypnotic, brought to life by artists Steve Bissette and John Totleben in wonderfully creepy fashion.By the way, as I am reading this series in its single-issue form, I found myself enjoying the letter pages quite a bit.
In a letter written months prior to the arrival of Alan Moore (published half a year later in #22: those were slower times...), for example, Roger Myers from Berkshire, England, warns American readers still unfamiliar with then-2000 AD writer Moore that they "are in for a real treat," because "that man is nothing short of absolutely brilliant." And then the enthusiastic responses to Moore's first issue, of course: "destined for stardom," Paul Harrison from Shropshire wisely predicted.
Letter pages, sigh...
I'm slightly biased in favor of Swamp Thing in general since reading Snyder's work, and I'm willing to let some other things slide because this is still Alan Moore of Watchmen and V for Vendetta as he's first gaining his fame in the early 80's, so even when I'm juggling all this in my mind, where does this first volume actually land?It's okay.
Alan Moore's impact on the pop-culture landscape is apparent, though I personally feel like his writing can sometimes be a bit dry or esoteric (and I'm looking at you V for Vendetta). But GODDAMN this book had some of the finest writing I've ever come across. Poetic and terrifying and hypnotic and beautiful. I'm not (or rather wasn't) a Swamp Thing fan, nor am I that well versed in the history of the DC Universe, but I was glued to every word on every page of this thing.If you're into graphic storytelling, this should be required reading.
Obviously a classic that is a must read. Great story telling and old school artwork. Pretty terrifying at stages but also quite qcomplex for a horror type story. Political environmental issues discussed for it times 80s so I guess pretty topical back then. Really enjoyed this but preferred Watchmen.
This made me question if I should have gotten my Watchmen tattoo, because it made me realize that there are comics out there that I haven't read yet that have the potential to be just as good if not better than Watchmen, and this is one of those. Then I remembered that Alan Moore wrote both Watchmen and this. I should have gotten an Alan Moore tat is the problem. Seriously, one of the greatest things I've ever read.
Even then, Moore says, the character might live on - avoiding limbo by occupying guest slots in other comics.
The stories never end once put into a comic.
More importantly, Moore goes on, unless you are very lucky, does the story ever begin - for you.
Anyone picking up a comic book for the first time is almost certain to find themselves in the middle of a continuum that may have been running before the reader's birth even.
"It seems where demons fail and monsters falter, angels may prevail."  I'm coming to this version of Alan Moore's the Swamp Thing without any knowledge of his original creation by Len Wein, except of course with the brief appearances he had made during the Jamie Delano for Hellblazer: John Constantine. That being said, it had been a neat introduction to a comics icon. It was a rather baffling start at first, but one that is also beguiling enough to see through its finish. This first volume had
Abigail for me plays the companion Clara to Swamp Things's Twelfth Doctor, given that she seems to anchor him to the person he used to be (Alec Holland), while also accepting that he could never become that person again--but at least she is comforted by the knowledge that her friend will be happy again, much like Clara was for Twelve by Last Christmas.That panel reminded me of the scene where Twelve asked Clara if he is a good man, and by the end of Series 8 he finally decides that he wants to be.
So I like Alan Moore, and that's a bias. But as I started reading this I thought, "Are you kidding me? This is seriously awesome." Swamp Thing is one of the coolest, weirdest books I have ever read. Moore's writing is fierce, the 80's coloring is wild, the stories are as much science-fiction as they are horror. Every single page was enthralling. I was giddy after finishing it, wanting to read yet another of his works. There was literally no moment of "I wish he had done this."
I have a vague memory of Swamp Thing guest starring in an issue of a trade I read long ago, but that hardly counts.
What must have been a big reveal to those who had read Swamp Thing before him (view spoiler)[that he isn't a human who turned into a plant monster, but a plant that believes itself to be human (hide spoiler)] comes so early on that it's hardly a twist for me.
Maybe if I'd read previous issues of Swamp Thing I'd understand who these people were a bit better...
The JLA doesn't actually do anything, they just stand around in the satellite wondering what they should do about the crisis that Swamp Thing ends up managing on his own.
In some places it feels like a kind of mystic journey, an acid trip, a philosophical meditation on life and the planet, a meditation on the possibilities of comics, and so much more.
sometimes it feels like Moore has too many ideas going on for his own good, or that he is off his meds or on too many of them with his Druidic world view, but on any given page, there are more cool and inventive things than in most whole volumes of comics.
He uses comics to try and say important things he cares about.Moore also brings pathos and depth to a character lost in oblivion, as he does elsewhere time and time again.
This book is a nice jumping-on point if you're curious about what happened to comics in the mid-80's, the time when everything got pretty dark.
So you end up with stuff that's not too dated most of the time.For example:A couple tweaks, all is well.But with comics, it's not that simple.
I almost believe in the existence of Chris Hemsworth less than I do Thor, which makes no sense.At any rate, this is a pretty damn good book, so if the art turns you off, I'd say consider it a history lesson, and 15 minutes in you won't even notice.
Blows me away. Every. Single. Time.
That said, he did a great job on No. 20, as well.)Moore took a "horror book" and absolutely stuck with that theme but he did it in a way I found to be considerably more terrifying than a slasher, gore-fest, what's-about-to-jump-out!
type of fear.Moore was able to conjure a deep, permeating horror in a primal way.
It was terrifying and completely soul crushing, effecting me hours into the night after I'd stopped reading.This is absolutely a "monster" title, but that monster isn't Dr. Holland (Swamp Thing).
The stories are so mature in the good way, not mature in the tits and ass and swearing way.But mostly, the struggle Swamp Thing faces with his former human self and identity and what it will mean for him are the most interesting parts of this book.Strongly recommended, and I look forward to finishing Alan Moore's run with Vols 2-3.
Moore inherited a clunky origin story for Swamp Thing, and immediately went about rebooting the series by questioning some core assumptions of the previous continuity.
This sort of maneuver could have been poorly executed, but it's this re-imagining of Swamp Thing as a creature embracing his "monsterness" (rather than yearning for its "lost" humanity) that gives this book its brilliance.
I also love how Swamp Thing's non-violent (sort of) approach to the villain, Woodrue, is effective while a navel-gazing set of superheroes (The Justice League) prove utterly impotent to do much good.
I think Moore's depiction of flawed, aloof heroes in this book foreshadows his exploration of that theme in WATCHMEN.
He shares my passion for Tolkien so I listened to his recommendation.
He praised Alan Moore for his skill in writing.Moore took over Swamp Thing after some years, deconstructed the old portrayal of the monster and constructed a new origin story, and it opened the concept to human empathy.
Moore writes many poetic meditations and monologues through his characters.
A couple plays with a Ouija Board and conjures up a furry demon that eats them and clings to their boy for a master, so it can stay in our world.
Swamp Thing's lady works there, and runs to him for help.
A Moore se le encargó retomar el personaje creado por Wrightson y Wein y se marcó la mejor etapa de la cosa del pantano.
Otro buque insignia del sello Vertigo.Con la preciosa prosa de Moore, que a veces es incluso poética, asistimos a la redefinición de éste ser surgido de la mezcla radiactiva del cuerpo de Holland con las aguas de un pantano.
Es cierto que hay pasajes que se hacen algo espesos con la verborrea del barbas pero en general me ha gustado éste primer contacto.
"Yes...I...have read...the file." - Read this book to learn why that is one of the most chilling pieces of dialogue to ever appear in a graphic novel!
But this book is more than just a reboot of a character.
It's also a perfect mix of horror and drama presented in a format which had usually been reserved for more basic good-vs-evil adventures.If you're not a fan of graphic novels or horror, you should still read this, as it may just win you over.
And if you are already a fan of horror and graphic novels, you MUST read this book!
This could be considered in keeping with the times, this was written in 1972, but Alan Moore showed his visionary style by taking the Swamp Thing and turning it into a vehicle for his then-radical ideas about nature, the environment and even just changing up the way comic stories were told.
Some of the full page splash scenes are rather stunning to this day and so seem to work with this world of his.If you are interested in the Swamp Thing world or just enjoy the writings of Alan Moore, this is a great series to start with.
I've read a good many things written by Alan Moore through the years.
If I've ever read any of Moore's run on Swamp Thing, it would have been in the early 1980's when I was less than 12 years old.
Abigail was the one character that is in the entire book that was consistently good looking.
The most impressive thing about the art was some of the layouts in the book.
The most impressive were the pages laid out to look like Swamp Thing's face.
If you like the character of Swamp Thing at all or are a fan of Alan Moore, give this a read.
The word, when used by its general meaning in regards to big company comic book story telling, is used to describe the act of taking either events or moments of a characters' (or teams) history and saying either:1.
Those same moments happened in ways different from original tellings (due mostly to updates to the characters' current or upcoming history.
So I have been wanting to read Swamp Thing for a while now, and reading Man-Thing by R.L. Stein(Which pretty much parodies this run), I wanted to read DCs swamp hero.
But I don't think Moore's run is for me in the end.
So the story has Swamp Thing coming home from some war he went on with Dead Man and Constantine; he wants to return home and be with his wife who is in being persecuted and hunted down by the cops, Charge: having sex with an animal(i.e. Swamp Thing)....
2.5 stars. Not bad, but not up to the level of much of Moore's other work V for Vendetta, The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen, Vol. 1 and Watchmen to name just a few. Parts of it were very well done, but not enough to push it up another star.
Great atmospheric horror comic. The writing is crisp yet eloquent and the artwork is top notch. Swamp Thing is a tragic character and Moore does an admirable job making him sympathetic to the reader. I liked it but didn't love it however this is not a detriment to the collection at all. It is an eerie yarn spun by a very talented writer
