https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/165908.Eye_in_the_Sky
Thus, on one level, Eye in the Sky can be read as a philosophical meditation on how human perception shrinks the world into its own stultifying vision.
And, on another level, the implications of solipsism, that is, a view of the world having no extension or externality; rather, the entire universe living in the head of the solipsist.
All in all, a book that’s vintage PKD, a book that, in my modest view of the universe, should be required high school reading.
Like The Cosmic Puppets, Time Out of Joint, and Ubik, the world in Eye in the Sky is not what it appears to be.
In the theme of the world as a creation of the mind, the very nature of reality comes into question.
Eye in the Sky shares more with Ubik than just the theme of the world as a creation of the mind.
Things that most people regard as harmless or accidental or meaningless are dangerous and malevolent to the paranoid.There’s actually another world in this book that isn’t a world created by a character’s mind.
The Eye in the Sky by Philip K.
Dick is a smart, satirical, absurdist and brilliant allegory on Conservatism and McCarthyism.
It could also be a theological spoof with a psychological twist.
Or a psychological comedy with theological themes.
It is also vaguely reminiscent of Heinlein’s Job: A Comedy of Justice.
Not to be taken too seriously, it is PKD approaching his best: imaginative science fiction with religious undertones.
Perhaps not for a new reader of PKD, it is however, one that a fan will definitely want to read.

Don't think sorry's easily saidDon't try turning tables insteadYou've taken lots of chances beforeBut I ain't gonna give anymore, don't ask meThat's how it goesCause part of me knows what you're thinkin'Like most of PKD's novels, 'Eye in the Sky' has several things going on at once.
It is a not-so-subtle Anti-McCarthyism tract (written in 1957, close to the end of peak Red Scare), showing the absurdity of prosecuting and persecuting people for what they think.
After that it is a rather interesting, but still flawed and uneven Sci-Fi novel that shows what happens when those thoughts are the very thing that controls the Universe.
The book is an important one in Dick's oeuvre as it is his first to explore one of his overriding pet themes: the slippery mutability of so-called "reality." Highly imaginative, occasionally mind-blowing, and evincing bursts of humor as well as philosophical speculations, the book might well be considered Dick’s first great sci-fi novel; personally, I loved it.In the book, the reader makes the acquaintance of a young electronics engineer named Jack Hamilton, who, when we first encounter him, is getting some very bad news from his bosses at the weapons manufacturing firm known as California Maintenance.
Now, imagine a world made by a religious, patriarchic war veteran's personality.
Or a conservative, insecure, unmarried, neurotic, man-fearing woman's hang-ups.
After an accident, eight people have to survive through four different realities in order to come back to the real world.
Catchy, right?Dick gets his hands on many stereotypic matters such as religious prejudice, phenomenically innocent obsessions, political fanaticism and sociopathic phobias.
A world with a heaven above it and a hell below it, another in which all men and women are asexual, one where houses are alive and eat people (that's from the mind of the aforementioned neurotic woman.
A masterful demonstration on how every point of view is eventually flawed (even a big bloated eye hanging up in the sky's :D).Musical sibling :Pink Floyd - The Great Gig in the Sky--------------------Une illustration magistrale de l'imperfection de tout point de vue (même de celui d'un œil dans le ciel)Correspondance musicale :Pink Floyd - The Great Gig in the Sky
While they're unconscious, they live through a series of worlds that trap them in the worldview of the mind of one after the other of the unconscious or semi-unconscious people.
But they're also fascinating because it shows how our perceptions of the world are really quite different from one another.
What would my world be like?
All I can say is that it's an immense relief that I will never have to deal with the situation that happens in this book.What makes it so brilliant to me is that it's highly entertaining, humorous, terrifying, absurd, and totally and completely thought-provoking.
Yine aynı dönemlerde yazdığı The World Jones Made'i de andırıyor biraz.Bir şeyler oluyor, bir patlama, sekiz kişi, hepsinin zihni birbirine karışıyor.
Muhteşem bir hicivle, 'kutsal kitaptaki her şey gerçek olsa, bir tanrı var olsa hayat nasıl olurdu' irdeleniyor.
Dick, mesela dua etmeyi, dini oportünizmi komik şekilde hicvediyor:"Açıklasana," diye mırıldadı Hamilton.
Eğer inananlardan biri olursan korkacak bir şeyin kalmaz.""Oportünist.""Aynen öyle."*Hamilton aniden, "Niçin?" diye sert ve yüksek bir sesle saldırdı.
"Ne de olsa bu O'na kalmış bir şey; nasıl düşüneceğine o karar verir.""Bu rezillik."İpeksi omuzlarını silkti.
Ödüllendirilen ya da cezalandırılan hayvanlara."*(Tetragrammaton)'un [yani tanrının] doymak bilmez bir iştahı olduğuna karar verdi.
"I am the eye in the sky Looking at you I can read your mind I am the maker of rules Dealing with fools I can cheat you blind And I don't need to see any more To know that I can read your mind, I can read your mind"
If anyone needs more proof of my existence, look no further than this book!PKD must have been a wizard. There is simply no other explanation for this “novel,” which is clearly just an excuse to publish his fiercely insightful visions of different universes. The first one the characters inhabit, which is notably characterized by A GIANT EYE IN THE SKY (*cough*cough), must be a vision of the future of Middle-Earth. Men will be the dominant species, which does not surprise me - they reproduce so ve
If anyone needs more proof of my existence, look no further than this book!
There is simply no other explanation for this “novel,” which is clearly just an excuse to publish his fiercely insightful visions of different universes.
The first one the characters inhabit, which is notably characterized by A GIANT EYE IN THE SKY (*cough*cough), must be a vision of the future of Middle-Earth.
It’s strange; I must go through a change of morality at some point, because I can’t see condemning anything like that… but perhaps I’ll simply discover some new truths.
There really isn’t any other explanation for this novel.AHA!
This is proof that the tiny hobbits shall never defeat me!
But here, instead of merely regurgitating the same narrative conclusions, Dick takes himself for a ride.Dick was above all a great thinker and philosopher, why the hell his work is called science fiction, I don’t really understand.
Just take this central premise: don’t go to science institutes, you could fall into another universe.
Philip K Dick says to hell with that: reader, you will live the world of my characters, and I will analyse and figurise them and embed you in the consequences.Eye in the Sky presents a masterful novelist at the peak of his creative art.
sono le circonvoluzioni del suo cervello, le colline e le vallate della mente di Silvester.Una delle tematiche predilette di Dick è certamente la definizione della realtà, la contrapposizione tra la realtà individuale e quella collettiva: il pensiero corre subito all'arcinoto Ubik, che con i suoi violenti strappi al tessuto della realtà si è imposto come uno dei campioni della fantascienza contemporanea.
A concludere il viaggio, una realtà stalinista che mostra le sue infinite contraddizioni, e che preclude alle scelte di vita che si realizzano nel finale.Scritto con uno stile ancora leggero e frizzante, appartenente alla prima produzione dell'autore, è tuttavia maturo nell'approfondimento delle sue tematiche, nella capacità di distruggere e ricostruire all'infinito la realtà, nonché nella ricerca psicologica.
The latter is especially central to the plot, and he manages to critique Communist paranoia while sowing some of his own along somewhat different lines, and satirizing Communist ideas of America in a kind of amazing way so as to be clear that he doesn't actually endorse Communism while still including semi-subversive moments.
moment, and one more deeply embedded suggestion that we can never know, with our flawed subjective sensing devices, that we've actually struck upon the one true reality.
Totally fun, kinda spazzy and uneven, surprisingly provocative for such an early entry in the Dick bibliography.
In the opening scene, Hamilton, our main character, loses his job at the missile plant when his wife comes under investigation for her possible left-wing sympathies.
Dick and his wife were briefly investigated by the FBI in Berkeley about the time he wrote this novel, but that could not have been all that uncommon an event in 1950's Berkeley.
The ugliest aspects of the novel are Dick's relish in describing the ugliness of two female characters, one obese and the other the uptight old maid who fills the world with monsters.
Through each of the four worlds he slowly comes to terms with that and what he should do going forward.The book does make a good job of dealing with racism, too, as one of the eight people, Laws, was a tour guide as well as African American with an advanced degree in physics.
In the religious world, Laws is forced to be what the cult wants black people to be, which is the racist stereotype.
Please do not think that Alan Rickman's final role was in a science fiction story; as cool as that would have been, this is just not the case.Sorry to break your hearts.This novel, written in 1957 by Philip K.
Whatever I didn't get I just assume is some made-up bullshit, like science.As with most of Dick's novels (and I don't think I've even read that many), he (like Heinlein and many others in the field) had a huuuuuuge problem writing women.
One day, missile tech Jack Hamilton gets called before his employers, who are concerned that Jack's wife, Marsha, could be a commie sympathizer.
Like tour groups the world over, this one's members all hate each other (Dick had a knack for writing characters who are ...
"Eye" is a bugnuts messterpiece of deliriously addled prose, erratic characterization, lumbering satire and snort-inducing dialog ("Darling, when I think of those men getting you in there and confronting you with me and my activities, as if I was some sort of a -- as if I was a prostitute or something, or maybe having secret relations with horses." "The radiation singed away most of my clothes.") It's hard to pick out particularly bad examples of the writing because PKD generates a steady stream of howlers throughout the book.
An accident in a research facility leads to eight people being exposed to a powerful radioactive beam.
What lurks for them next and will they ever return to the real world?This is science fiction very much of its time, with the concerns of 50’s America writ large.
The horror elements are scary but too fleeting to have much effect; while the notion of parallel words now feels a slightly aged science fiction trope – and besides, Dick’s handling of these worlds felt to me a lot more silly than adventurous.
Easily one of PKD's best funny books Eye in the Sky creates a perfect satire of how people view reality since it takes place inside people's minds.
The book shows how people can have such different perspectives of the same reality.
So if you enjoy those things in his other works here he does really well with them.
It can be forgiven though since as mentioned earlier it takes place in people's minds.The characters in the novel are fleshed out well and diverse.
Dick's portrayal of what life might be like if it were as imagined by a religious fundamentalist extremist, or a "wholesome," "prim and proper" 1950's perspective, or a paranoiac view, or a world run by gangster-capitalists. It's more a commentary on mistaken / delusional views of the world than exploration of the real world or possible worlds.
I was hoping for more.
This book is packed full of odd scenarios and a bit of comic relief but I just didn't care for the way the story portrayed women.
It is from 1957 and feels like it, culturally speaking.
I tried to keep this fact in mind the entire time I was reading.
The author is writing in 1957.
His writing reflects the way women were treated then by men and society at large.
I tried not to expect too much and kept getting disappointed in the portrayal of the future as dark as this one predicts.
105 missing period before 'Poor McFeyffe'137 missing close quoteCompletely shameless of its corniness, this book was bad. It's got a neat moral premise if you squint; we need to be careful of our own predispositions in misinterpreting our shared reality. & there's a fair number of good lines. But the length isn't even kept short on this dud. Which is to say, I think this is Dick's worst book
Hell Is Just the Next Guy's Dream of a Perfect WorldThe most hilarious of PKD's novels, populated with a well-wrought and diverse cast of sympathetic midcentury American characters and (unsurprisingly) timely in its political commentary. A deep cut from the PKD backlist that will both delight longtime fans and hook first-timers.
Instead, they move on to the fantasy world of another of the group, and then another, and then another.Though it starts out pretty seriously, the plot of Eye in the Sky eventually becomes rather amusing as we view the world from different people’s distorted perspectives.
As usual, it’s really hard to like most of Dick’s characters — they’re obsessed, irrational, and phobic — but we can sympathize with Jack and Marsha Hamilton, at least.I listened to Brilliance Audio’s recent publication of Eye in the Sky which was narrated by Dan John Miller.
The first alt-world that the characters are blown into reminded me of a cross between Scientology and Mormonism.But if one knows a bit of history and has been paying attention, you can see this quest for certitude expresses itself in many ways, not just in religion.
The Singularity movement comes to mind.Then there's the elevation of the arts into a form of aestheticism that also can be seen as some kind of path to salvation.The reality is that we live in an uncertain world in which we are all going to die some day and the best we can do is to honorably manage what we have and not try to impose our vision of life on others.
I'm on a roll with Dick. I'm undecided as to whether this one is saying anything important, but it is really clever. It manages to do creationism, multiverse AND be a whole lot of fun at the same time.
A pesar de que se perfila como la típica novela Dickiana, comenzando con Fecha, Locación y Evento, Ojo en el Cielo pronto difiere de las demás abogando por un estilo algo más opresivo en su presentación, y luego, cuando se desencadenan los hechos principales, por una prosa jocosa y rebosante de crítica enmascarada de hilaridad, en donde se ridiculiza el fanatismo y —sin malas intenciones— la ignorancia despreocupada.
El prólogo y epílogo, por otro lado, representaron los puntos más débiles; hay un marcado tinte político que, si bien sí se ha visto en otras ocasiones en obras de Phil, a mi parecer, aquí no es ejecutado con su característica fluidez.
También sufre de esto la parte cuatro, pero esta cuenta con algunos hechos válidos que la ponen por sobre las otras.
hepimiz evreni farklı algılıyoruz, demek ki hepimizin bir algısal evreni var. şimdi bu evrenlerin birine hapsolduğunuzu düşünün, sizinkinden bambaşka bir dünya. bu hapsoluşlar, kurtuluşlar ve başka evrenlere hapsoluşlar söz konusu, bu harika bir hayal gücü ve muhteşem bir konu. Ama anlatım, olayların etrafında döndüğü temelin basitliği falan derken biraz yalan olmuş sanki.
