https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17324.The_Visitation
(view spoiler)[This is overtly a Christian story concerning a minister who has lost his wife and had his life shatter around him.
And mostly he's saying it to a "gung-ho" new young minister who is enthusiastically intent on "helping" his predecessor.
Having been called to share the "Gospel" the "Good News" with all mankind our differences in belief, need to be held subordinate to that Gospel.
A misguided young man here sets out thinking that he has some extra special calling from God and that people just need to recognize it.(I'm speaking here of the protagonist in his youth.
How many of us know what the Bible says about Jesus' return?
He works miracles and inspires people all over the nation to come to the small town and worship him.
This whole story is a reference to the passage in Revelations that warns us that people will come in Jesus' name and will deceive even the elect.
Peretti works out the confusion in town in the fast paced, action packed style he is known for.
There is a lot of action, a little romance, and a lot of Biblical truth presented in a very interesting, page turning style.
As a Christian author myself, I'm interested in the genre, especially the fiction side. Peretti is the dean of Christian supernatural fiction, and this book another of his fine entries, but it seems whenever anyone tries to make spiritual "battles" into physical ones, the result is strangely anti-climactic and unsatisfying, perhaps because the greatest conflicts exist in the human heart, and when you try to put those conflicts into the workaday world, they seem somehow less compelling. Nevertheless, if you're interested in this genre, this book is well worth the time.
Most of the town's ministers and "pastors," I use that word very loosely, are like:And the only concerned minister, Kyle, is urgently trying to convince Travis Jordan, the protagonist (when the point of view isn't Third Person), to help him unmask the supposed Jesus.
Reading some of the earlier chapters where Travis reminisces of his past, I swear it was like reading a journal by 15-year-old Bianca ranting about the things she'd seen at church.
To paraphrase another review, The Visitation is a novel in which Christians need discernment to understand why not everyone that says "Lord!
I don't usually like Peretti's novels too much (his writing style + longwindedness get on my nerves) but this one gripped me and didn't let go.
It was interesting, seeing the different denominations portrayed in this book, as were all of Travis' flashbacks.
(I just wish that Nicholls had been saved in the end.)Incidentally, this is the second Christian novel I've read where someone comes along, claiming to be Jesus, and deceives a whole bunch of people (the other one being Tartarus by Jack Cavanaugh).
I can't say which take on the idea I like better - they're both well-written and chilling.
HERE is my all-time favorite Peretti novel!Now, about thrillers... They have a very natural tendency to be extremely plot-driven. Granted, a good thriller requires a tight, unexpected plot in order to be a page-turner. A lot of thriller authors, however, construct this awesome, mind-blowing plot, but give little or not attention to the painting of their characters. Peretti handles this masterfully! He populates his exciting stories with characters that are rounded out with style and quirks.
Extraordinary novel, in which the description of Christian life in America seemed to overshadow the actual supernatural plot, until you discover that they merge beautifully in the end. With this novel, I can put Frank Peretti next to C.S. Lewis and William Peter Blatty in my personal list of Christian authors, who left deep impression to me with their books. Review in Bulgarian here:http://citadelata.com/the-visitation/
Travis Jordon is a devout Christian and Brandon Nichols is proclaiming to be Jesus and wants to turn everyone away from God. Brandon challenges every spiritual assumption that Travis/all Christians have.
This leads to citizens of Antioch turning away from God and fallowing Brandon.
Peretti spectacularly weaves together the background stories of Travis and Brandon.
Brandon believes he is a new and improved Jesus.
The irony throughout this book is that the true attributes of Jesus shine through Travis like love, kindness, and patience.
The opposite comes from Brandon like his hatred for everything/everyone and his attitude toward others.
I really enjoyed reading this book.
I have heard great things about this writer (and even Ted Dekker was compared to his work/also read the book they did together and seen the movie via DVD).
"religion is a cry of the human heart for meaning...tradition has its myths and visitations...instead are worshipping idols by waiting and seeking God, the image it represents (paraphrased)." As a Bible Study teacher, this is so beneficial in an upcoming lesson.
Early on I agree with the skeptics since the Bible states when Christ returns that He will not touch the Earth again with his feet but come as He left in the sky.
The pacing was generally very good, but the (important) back story did drag a bit in spots.The novel explored why God doesn't give people everything they ask for, like why He heals some people and not others.
It also explored how the whole point of Christianity can get lost amid programs, denominational squabbles, promises made by famous preachers on God's behalf, doing "the church thing," and other, often well-intentioned or necessary things.
Overall, I'd recommend it as interesting (if you're interested in spiritual warfare with a bit of mystery and good-natured poking fun at various denominations), fairly clean reading.
As he wades through tangled memories of his past, we see what has brought him to this point, and also come to realize that God is not done with him yet.Having been through a ringer of church-experiences myself, I resonated with Travis's struggle.Peretti takes on the topic of Christian Fellowship with clear-cut honesty, startling insight, and an unexpected depth of compassion.
He reminds us exactly what the Church has become and still celebrates the fact that God works through all of us, as broken and confused as we are.
A story of intrigue in this day an age with so many false teachers and preachers. An absolute must read.
This book caught my interest at the start of reading it.
....It’s about a fake messiah and how much trouble a fake messiah can bring you, especially this one.
I don’t think these people in the book must have read their bibles much or knew it well, because the bible says if someone comes and says Jesus is here or there not to believe them or go to find out.
But worth reading.
It kept my interest with some boredom here and there, but as you keep reading through it, it gets better, especially towards the end.
Frank Peretti wrote a wonderful novel in which he explores the subject of Christ returning and people's perceptions of religion. Peretti did a great job developing all the characters and reflecting all types of "christian" personalities.
Before I dive in I think its only fair to say that a big part of why I could enjoy this book so much was that I could relate so easily to the main character.
With that in mind I have to applaud the fact that Peretti is a "Christian author" who can actually write: so many books seem to sell only because they're branded as Christian, and for some reasons Christians feel obligated to buy them.
It wasn't so tiresome that it wore me out and made me tired of reading, but it could be a little bit annoying.
If you only get a false prophet, "end times" theme from this book, then I think you may be missing the point.I relate so completely to Travis!
Not because it is super-natural or spooky, but because it is a detailed illustration of what so many people have gone through, and it gives us hope that there can be healing at the end of it!And as a side note, I do want to say that Travis' love story, is one of the sweetest written love stories I have read.
I can't review a Peretti novel without dragging out my dusty copy of his last book and giving you a quick rundown.The Visitation happens in a little eastern Washington town called Antioch, where nothing ever happens.
What happened to Antioch made Travis confront his past and work on uncovering the truth behind what is going happening.Now the trap behind Christian thrillers, supernatural or not, is that someone out there will decry the entire thing as misleading and dangerously speculative.
Jenkins's Left Behind series poses a threat to your faith, then my warning label for this week is to stick to the non-fiction works that inspired novels of this genre.(2005)
First time I've read a religious novel like this one.
Anyway I just had to buy it again but it cost me a lot more !As I say it is definitely a religious story about a town which appears to have been visited by Jesus and how the town react and behave.Twinned with the prophet story is the unwinding tale of the towns minister which captivated me totally throughout.
But there is much humour too.Thoroughly enjoyed this non preachy totally religious novel and will read more from this author.
Character development- It had none, the characters were so forgettable.
The one thing that I hated about it was the fact that you did not care about the characters, they were all over the place.
I got very little if none, backgrounds, personality, etc from any of them.
It was randomized and and ridiculous.Consistent plots- No story was consistent, it was all over the place.
First it was talking about the Messiah coming, than it got into a romance, than it got into a priest past sins, it did not even answer the questions I wanted.
It was laughable how the story made absolutely no sense.This book was an utter grace,such a travesty!
This is a provocative story. Peretti deals with how misapplication of Christian teachings can damage some people so much that they become completely warped.He also really explores our desire for a Messiah we can see and hear and touch and how easily people can be led astray just because they want to believe something wonderful.Like many of Peretti's stories, it is genuinely thought-provoking and will leave you exploring how you live out your own faith--if you are a Christian.
I loved this book, and I think the one thing I loved most was how it evoked such a response from me. As the main character describes all the hypocritical people he's encountered, most especially in the church, I could relate so well, that as I was reading it I felt SO FRUSTRATED. Frank Peretti writes well, and he makes it feel real. The entire plot was very good as well, and i would totally recomend this book.
i had always been too bored to read the introduction but this time i read the introduction and it made me laugh a lot. i loved this book as a child. i truly loved [read: hated that the villain was an religious abuse survivor who didn't have a good enough attitude about christ after his preacher dad literally nailed him to a fence. my favorite part is probably when there are worms in the bread that he was throwing. thanks.
I actually enjoyed the first part of this book. I found the story relevant and appropriate to Christianity today. However, the ending was such a disappointment! To me it seemed as if the author said, "enough written, time to end this," and then found the quickest most "blockbuster movie" ending he could come up with and tacked it on.
PRE-READI bought this book when I was 12, 13 years old at the advice of my mother because she thought it looked cool. I have to say this before I officially start it, I am agnostic borderline atheist, I am pro-choice and I am a supporter of LGBTQ+ rights.But despite all this, I want to give this book a shot.
3.4 ⭐ I Listened via audio. The audio quality is not the best; It was hard to listen to and understand. But the story was good. I will need to listen to this again or read the plain hard copy of this book to appreciate the story.
3.4 ⭐️ I Listened via audio. The audio quality is not the best; It was hard to listen to and understand. But the story was good. I will need to listen to this again or read the plain hard copy of this book to appreciate the story.
couldn't finish....I keep trying to read Peretti books and he is just too detailed for me. I like books that get to the point. I don't really care what your flowers look like in your driveway. hahaha!
Not as powerful as I remember my initial reading, but still a thought provoking, entertaining read, and it served as a tentpost for me back in the day: what I LIKED about this novel told me that writing in the Christian market WASN'T for me. More on my blog later.
This was my first Peretti book, and I suppose I somehow expected more than this. The story didn't hold my interest, the plot was predictable, and the whole thing was a little dry. I'd happily give Peretti another shot, though, as this may have been just a fluke for me here.
I had trouble putting this one down. Peretti owns this genre, weaving a great thriller mystery.
This book still haunts me, two years later. So I now give this book 5 stars. The writing may not have been phenomenal (I don't remember), but certain aspects of this story still ingrained in me.
