https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1763693.The_Tale_of_Little_Pig_Robinson
I had always looked at this book with some trepidation, glaring back at me as it did so in its Tolstoyan enormity (it is over 100 pages long, a mammoth tome in the Beatrix Potter catalogue) from the bookshelf, but eventually I realised there was no denying the inevitability of my having to take it down and actually read it.
The ensuing sea journey for Robinson is one which he enjoys up to the point when the ship's cat lets him know that the trip is not likely to end well for him, and arranges for Robinson to escape.
This is the first Beatrix Potter book I've ever read. She definitely writes at a higher level than most of the garbage being turned out for children today. I enjoyed her quirky style of blending talking animals with humans. The tale is enjoyable.
now i wanna go to the seaside.i don't really know why.
This is a small chapter book. Mostly black and white drawings. This is about the Pig Robinson going into the city. He is lured onto a ship and fattened for a feast. A cat helps him escape his day with death onto an island. It's a twisty tale on the archetype of the fool. A good little story.
I quite enjoyed this little adventure tale. I especially like the mixing of animal and human attributes given to the animal characters. And pigs! Love the pigs and the drawings of the pigs.
Leitura para o projeto #nestórias.
In that cottage there lived three pigs – Miss Dorcas, Miss Porcas, and Little Pig Robinson.
Is there any way that Little Pig Robinson can escape from the doom awaiting him?Discussion.In Beatrix Potter’s world, animals dress and act like humans – they run tea shops and town markets and live in houses with windows and spinning wheels.
Of course, when we realize that the sailors want to eat Little Pig Robinson, we experience qualms of horror, but other than that it’s low-key.
As a young reader, I couldn't enjoy this book because I couldn't understand most of the unfamiliar wording and what the book was about.
For example:Although it was published in 1930, it was initially written in 1893, and as such it uses the language of its time, which I am unfamiliar with.
I was very caught up in trying to understand what the words meant, and this stopped the flow of the reading, which stopped my enjoyment of the book.
This problem of not enjoying a book I don't fluently understand has highlighted the need for help in future to explain what's going on, and therefore bring a book to life.
This was by far the longest of the Beatrix Potter books in my collection.
I didn't read this one aloud to Natalie because I didn't think I would enjoy it enough to keep going.
After reading so much of Beatrix Potter, I've gotten very used to her writing style.
She details life in her time period, which seems odd to me because these things are so foreign to us now.
This is a children book after all, but I guess at the same time that many children in her time period would have been on closer terms with their food.
Read as part of The Beatrix Potter Collection: Volume TwoLesson for Little Pig Robinson: Cooks are not trustworthy.And I have also been reminded that I am yet to read Robinson Crusoe.
Weird combo of "The Owl and the Pussycat" and "Robinson Crusoe" with an idiot pig, a seriously self centered dumbo. I love Potter's descriptions of fields and valleys and the country, but she has serious storytelling issues, and the whole animal/person/human line goes weird all the time...
I really enjoy Beatrix Potter and her books. I think they're so lovely and just beautiful. I would love to have the entire collection so i could read them whenever i just want to have a break from adult books.
This story was a bit longer than most. I just loved this description "Little Pig Robinson was a charming little fellow; pinky white with small blue eyes, fat cheeks and a double chin, and a turned-up nose, with a real silver ring in it."
upon finishing the tale of little pig robinson, the thing that sticks most with me is the forms of community potter shows us between the cats, and the dogs, and the other animals. i also appreciate her - at times - dry prose. it made me laugh, and reminded me to smile.
Kitty helps Piggy escape being a pork chop.
I'd forgotten how long this story is! This completes my re- reading of all the Beatrix Potter "little books."
After selling produce in the market for his aunts, Little Pig Robinson is invited to join a group of sailors who secretly intend to eat him during their next voyage.
Equally interesting is the mysterious origin of the fictional world's social inequality, as animal characters maintain a separate, primarily rural economy which intersects with the human-dominated urban economy.
This story is much longer and more complicated than others in the series.
Readers sensitive to depictions of kidnappings, prejudice, or to jokes about obesity, might want to skip this story.
While readers seeking suspenseful stories of travel or adventure should be entertained.
I love this book as an object, I find Potter's illustrations beautiful, the atmosphere she creates is quaint and endearing. I wish I was more in love with the story. It felt a little bit gratuitous.
Cute story.
They led prosperous uneventful lives, and their end was baconhe did not want to be answerable for the eggs
Well this was rather a long story about a pig called Robinson, it was quite an entertaining story really. It wasn't my favourite bedtime read but my son enjoyed it.
I love these little books.
There's a good description of what goes on in the dock when the fishing boats come in, and it's quite interesting.The second story is about a pig that was on one of the boats.
The chapter talks about Little Pig Robinson who is sent to do the marketing.
Chapter 3 continues his adventures on his way to the market.Pantechnicon is a word that I had to look up the meaning for, the word meaning a moving van.Anyhow, Little Pig Robinson ends up listening to a sailor and finds himself on a boat, kidnapped and marked for the captain's birthday dinner.
For me, this is the most multilayered of Potter’s famous “little books,” because it deals with serious themes like kidnapping and the abuse of innocence.
Anyone who is bothered by the death scene in Bambi (I still can’t handle that scene, I’m too sentimental) will find this story a bit disconcerting.
To be fair, it is no more “icky” than many of the Grimm tales; we all know that many children's stories can have a dark side.
This book does not contain as many of Potter’s distinctive and charming watercolors as the other books, but the line drawings are sharp, and can make you smell the salt water of the seaport.
One of the first books Potter wrote, but one of the very last to be published - maybe because Warne thought this book was too old for the under-5 audience they had established with Peter Rabbit et al.
Anyway, this book is a real gem.
It's based on the rhyme/game "This Little Piggy Went to Market", "Robinson Crusoe" and Lear's "Owl and the Pussycat".
West Country market town life - a lot more authentic than the soppy melodramatic nonsense we get from Hardy.
This is real and unsentimental.
With this book, by gradual stages, you're taken into a succession of different worlds.
And it's quite a trip - authentic magic.
This is the longest Beatrix Potter story I have ever read! But at about 120 pages, I read it to my son in two installments. The pig and the cat kept his attention, but I think a lot of the language went right over his head, as well as the allusions to Robinson Crusoe and The Owl and the Pussycat.
This is definitely a heftier book by Potter with few pictures. First off, running errands (including the market and a yarn shop) run entirely by animals?! Delightful. Lots of messages in this one for talking points with kids- that people are often too busy with their own stuff to be able to pay attention to you no matter how awesome of a person they are, the importance of saying no, responsibility, etc. In the end, the cat helps Little Pig Robinson escape from the chef of the boat and all ends well.
I love everything Beatrix Potter wrote.
This one was creative, taking the old poem "The Owl and the Pussycat" and weaving a story about the pig mentioned in one line.
The book told of the lovely adventure of the pig going to market and meeting all sorts of friends along the way, and then the scary story of getting accosted by a ship's cook and how the pussycat (of poem fame) help the pig escape being eaten.
Perhaps a bit too scary for young children for a while there, but great for slightly older kids who grew up with the other Potter tales.
Not quite as fun as other Beatrix Potter talesThis book has a lovely ending, and overall it retains the charm of many Beatrix Potter tales. However, it is a bit long-winded at the beginning. One has the impression that Potter did better when writing shorter books. Once we actually get to the scene of the main action, however, it flows along well, just like her little books. Overall it was a charming read.
Another Potter picaresque about a pig, although this little piggy goes to market and ends up at sea, wee wee wee! Plays around with the substance of nursery and nonsense rhymes beautifully, and the significance of Little Pig Robinson's name becomes quite clear at the end of the tail (tale)!
