https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/113387.A_Story_Like_the_Wind
Probably the most amazing book i have ever read. The Bushmen lived a life profoundly spiritual and closer to the earth and its creatures than any other. I feel like i have lived in southern Africa now.
It is infuriating because there's so many things about this book that I do not like: the idealized characters, the lack of a coherent plot, the forced shoveling of theme down the reader's throat, the numerous trivial tangents.
Yet at the same time, these faults 'worked' in the book's favor, lent it a naive charm of a land seen through the eyes of a young boy suddenly required to mature much too fast.
Part philosophical treatise, part written document of the rich oral tradition of Africa, we have a deeply engrossing story that details not just the loss of innocence for a young boy but that of a continent (perhaps the world) on the brink of upheaval.
A great deal is made of various African native tribes and their cultures, traditions, the oral keeping and passing down of knowledge for generations and centuries, their innate wisdom, and their incredible degree of relating with harmony and understanding to the land and their surrounding environment --- in ways the arrogant Europeans cannot begin to comprehend.
The ending is a harrowing situation that isn’t resolved, leaving the reader hanging and ready for the immediate reading of the author’s “A Far Off Place” in which the story continues.
I read it first some thirty years ago and fell in love with it; now I've read it again, this time more slowly, savouring every word, and I believe I know now why I cherish this book.
This is now in my top 5 books of all time. How did this book get overlooked back in 1974? Poetic insights into nature and culture of South Africa in early 20th century. Good character development. Hated for the book to end. Guess what?! There's a sequel and I'm starting it now: A Far Off Place
But this time round, I was also struck by how it is a love letter to a concept of South Africa that Laurens van der Post grew up in, but which was rapidly coming to an end.
In his introduction, van der Post talks about "the magic which life in primitive Africa seems to (him) to have possessed before we arrived from Europe to spoil it".
It's about the way that the indigenous people of Africa lived in harmony with the natural world around them, believing and respecting that all life is interconnected and the very different values held within European culture.
This is a pretty thick book, and you can't read it fast or it loses it's magic. The friend who recomended it to me told me repeatedly that you don't read it for the story, you read it for the images. I agree that the images are beautiful, but I thought it had a story too. It was a wander-and-explore-along-the-way story, but I felt I'd learned something valuable by the end. Be warned though, the story drops off a cliff at the end. You'll want to have the sequel "A Far-Off Place" close by.
Words fail me. Unforgettable. Touched me deeply. Slow-moving because of masses of detail lovingly described, e.g. the meaning and origin of the name of the boy's dog which involves a short lesson in Bushman and other languages. I tried reading this story to my kids but they did not appreciate the slow pace and I eventually gave up.
The story initially centers on Francois Joubert, a boy coming of age, & his life near the Kalahari desert; his wonder at the world & culture around him & the unique relationship he & his family have with the local population.
Eventually, the unseen political tensions break - & the story becomes "a long, perilous journey undertaken by four survivors of a massacre: a teenage boy of European descent, a young white girl, and two Bushmen."What was unique to me about the book/s was the incredible amount of backstory & set-up that occurs.
I understand that the story picks up in the sequel and A Story Like the Wind acts as an introduction to the characters and conflict.
The only reason I gave it three stars (instead of more) is because even as I was enjoying the book, I couldn't help but think, "Let's just get on with it." When the main character makes any kind of decision, he describes different lessons he has learned throughout his life to illustrate why he reacts or responds the way he does.
Fair warning: This book ends abruptly (a bit of a cliffhanger) so have the sequel (A Far Off Place) handy.
I am reading this again, having received it as a b'day gift -- so far, I am finding it to be better than the first time I read it.A beautifully written story about a facet of life in Africa, featuring young Francois. You can read the description and you can read praises elsewhere. But until you read the book, you can't imagine the beauty encompassed in this book! I recommend it, without reservations!!!
This is hands down the best book I've read in years. The descriptions are lush, the story is compelling, and the language is simply beautiful. Van Der Post is an underrated author, and I'm glad to have 'rediscovered' him after last reading his books 25+ years ago. Every time I picked this up, I was instantly transported back into the African bush, with all the plants, animals, sounds, and smells, the stars at night, the incredible sunsets, and of course, the unspeakable horror.
A very well-written work that painted a picture of the beauty of Africa and its people in a way I've never visualized before. The education of the young man in this coming of age story shows how time spent outside and alone complements and enhances a classical education and vice versa.This book was hard to put down. It was evocative of another time and place. It reflected an intimate acquaintance with the bush. It made me envy the author's skill in creating a magical, memorable story.
This is my favourite novel. It's not only a great adventure - but its message of hope and optimism despite its narrative on the troubled human spirit, is what makes it a truly great book. Its message on the need for sensitivity and strength of character is one that is inspiring and has never been more relevant in the world.
What did I think? What didn't I think? Or what didn't I feel while reading this book? I think every emotional crevice in my being was invaded and thrust open by the power of this novel, and the multitude of messages and images it contains. Couldn't recommend it more. If you didn't love Africa before, you will after this.
My all time favorite book!Mr van der Post's ability to bring me the sounds, smells and touch of the south African dusk is quite remarkable. This is a slow book, a book for people who like me could spend 15 minutes exploring one foot of a coral reef...the wonder is all in the minute detail.
Also, after war, they were needed to exorcise the spirit of death in him, and at the moment when the final loss of his shadow was upon him and those he loved, to drive away the power of death and revive the desire to live.""Finally, the man-child had to become a man who, though he should never weep for himself, could weep easily for others."Life, he said, consisted of a process of turning pages and, when they had to be turned, they were best turned quickly and firmly.""...in the end only courage made a person free.""World without and world within, after all, whether one knows it or not, are expressions of one another; interdependent and ceaselessly in communication, serving something greater than the sum of themselves.""He believed that when a person could form a question, it was a sign from life that the person was ready for a truthful answer.""No imagination has yet been great enough to invent improvements to the truth.
I gave it five stars, but it took me four months to read. The first half seemed slow. Fascinating story of Africa from a white boy's experience living closely with a native African tribe. Francois learned from the Africans how to see nature around him, along with many old tales and superstitions. The birds described reminded me of our trip to Kenya and Tanzania and the gorgeous birds there. Francois and his parents lived isolated from other white men, but shared living and mutual respect with the natives. The birds were acting differently and foretold changes that were coming.
Despite the rather formal writing style and a few slow patches, I found this coming of age story to be very compelling. It provides a unique view of south Africa, including its flora, fauna, languages, superstitions, magical beliefs, politics, etc. The descriptions of the jungle greeting the rising sun, for example, are rich in sensory detail. The humans’ relationships with their dogs and horses are delightful. The main character, a boy of 14, takes us on his journey of self discovery, including moments of astonishing beauty as well scenes of tragic loss.
The author seems almost prescient of the horrible atrocities, the droughts, and the diseases that have occurred in Africa since this book was written in 1972.
Francois, the main character, is born in Africa (near Victoria Falls, which is now in Zimbabwe and Zambia), of parents descended from the French.
He teaches Francois to understand the interconnected relationship between men, the animals, and the land itself.
The author’s prose is so evocative that the animals, people and Africa itself seemed to almost jump off the page.
That being said, at one point, though, the author devotes five pages to the parenting habits of baboons.
Don't hold that against him though - he is also the author of this wonderful book and its sequel, "A Far Off Place", two of my favorite books when I was a teenager.
Set in the Kalahari, the book tells the story of a young boy, Francois, whose life changes for ever when he saves the life of a Bushman, Xhabbo.
I am normally impervious to nature writing, but van der Post's evocation of the Kalahari is impressive.
(Which will make you want to read the sequel, "A Far Off Place").Although the books may find the most resonance with young adults, I would recommend them to anyone.
What a beautiful, but tragic story about a teenage boy (Francois), his dog (Hintza), his wonderful African community, a bushman (Xhabbo), and a girl (he calls Nonnie). This is not a quick read. It is very descriptive and shows the beauty and dangers of African life in a small, primitive region near the Kalahari Desert, the differences between African and European philosophies, friendships and hardships, and political violence. The story has an abrupt ending, and I must rush to find its sequel, A Far-Off Place.
Beautifully written and intense in meaning, this book immersed me in the natural life of Africa and the beliefs and values of its native people so that I have further evidence of how lacking our culture is in real values. Reading this book was a profound experience for me.
One of my all time favorites! I stayed up all night reading it!
I read this book & it's sequel as a teen & loved them. As an adult, even more! It's another story of survival, right choices, & perseverance.
I absolutely LOVE this book. So much so that I recommended it to my bookclub and will be reading it again.
I've been trying forever to get through this. It sucks me in and then it bores me... a lot of description but slow in some parts.


Recommend by Jennifer Harris. Not sure how to categorize this one but beautifully written, poignant storyline, and glorious descriptions that paint a lovely picture of Africa. Incredibly hard subject matter of tension with native to native, native to British, and man vs. man, man vs. nature. Coming of age of 2 children in the grips of horror.
