https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40320.Full_House
Reading this book was like eating an entire box of Hostess Ho Hos by myself--I knew it was a bad idea while I was doing it, and afterwards I felt angry and embarrassed that I did it. Even for a mindless, chick-lit beach-read, this book stretches the limits of credibility. And even if you like the author's Stephanie Plum Bounty Hunter series (which I do), forcibly thrust this book into the nearest trash can if you ever see a copy of it.
(bad mommy-I assured him everything was ok and he fell right back to sleep) After that I held a blanket up to my face whenever the book got me going.
I jumped right into Full Tilt and I am having a good time with that one so far as well.
I have not read any of the Stephanie Plum books by Evanovich yet, but I have started collecting them on my to read book case here at home because I am enjoying this author so far :0)
This was super funny! Was it a great book? No. But still entertaining.
I am convinced that the reason over 70 disappointed reviewers (to date) can't recognize Evanovich's wonderful comic voice in this rewrite is because the rewrite gave the book Charlotte Hughes's voice, which is (sorry, Ms. Hughes) plodding and flat (I really disliked Hot Shot, which I only read because I heard Evanovich liked her so much she had her do the Full House rewrite).
What a commentary on the state of today's publishing world that even a superstar like Ms. Evanovich doesn't rate any editing by her publisher!Like most other readers commenting here, I had to *force* myself to read this book to the end, and after the first half I was skimming.
I really enjoyed Evanovich’s brand of humor, but once you’ve read a few of her books it’s like having too much candy.
I have since burnt out on the Plum series and I think it’s safe to say I’ve burnt out on all Evanovich books because they’re starting to produce too much eye rolling and my poor contacts can’t handle it.
In this one, Billie Pearce is a sixth grade teacher and divorced mom of two who, of course, loves cooking and all things family.
Overall, this wasn’t the worse I’ve read but I can recommend other Evanovich books that are much better.
I don't really like any other Evanovich besides the Stephanie Plum novels.
Fun, cute story.
Over the years I have turned to Evanovich's Plum series many times.
Whenever life gets tough or I hit a reading wall I find that Stephanie, Joe, Ranger and the rest are highly entertaining.
No matter how many times I read the books they make me laugh right out loud and wake my sleeping family.
I had never read any other Evanovich books so I chose this one to fill a challenge category.
There is very little wit and sarcasm here, which is some of what makes Stephanie Plum so much fun.
Not once did I laugh out loud.
I'll have to take her next books on a lot of faith after this completely fades from my memory.If a few fifty-something housewives got together with the enthusiastic idea to write a book together over the summer...I'd imagine it would read something like this one.
There's a bug guy named Raoul, a kid who blows things up, a rich daddy's girl ex-girlfriend who happens to be gorgeous in contrast to Billie's motherly stretchmarks...and if the characters aren't annoying enough, the situations, dialogue, and general prose are enough to make you want to throw the book aside, yelling, "You have GOT to be kidding me!
With her kids gone with her ex a while during the summer, Billie Pearce knows she needs exercise and wants to try something adventurous.
She wants to learn how to play Polo.
Billie grows fond of Nick Kaharchek, but knows he is from a different world.
Nick looks at Billie and sees someone he likes but can also manipulate a little to get his cousin off his back.
The attraction for Nick and Billie is there, but both know it's a shot in the dark if they could make their different worlds emerge.
I'm aiming to read all of Janet Evanovich's books!
she got engaged after less than a week to a super handsome and loaded man and then she kept saying things like "I've never seen him this angry" or "I didn't recognize this side of him, the business man in a suit"...
well, of course she didn't!!, she didn't know him, period!And if I were a mom, I would've dumped his ass after the scene where he came up to Billie's house and yelled at Max, he was a kid!, what's he gonna do when Billie's kids screw up?, is she gonna let him treat them like that?
This book is more romance and less mystery with the main characters not actually needing or trying to solve a mystery until the last bit of the book, but the mystery elements still surround the characters affecting their actions.
All her books sound the same to me at the point with the main characters in every book having the same voice.
So, if someone has never listened to Lorelei King, this may not bother them and the different voices may be entertaining to them.
That huge age difference does not come across in the voices.
Total fluff but why not, it's summer!Probably what kept me reading this book was that it was set in the area where I live!
written in true evanovich style. fun and quirky. I really enjoyed the story and the characters.
DNF. This book felt like it was written by a 12 year old. Sounded childish and honestly, lame.
Grade BI started reading this book on a lazy summer day, a rather apt time for a story set up in the green hills of Loudoun County, Virginia where it is always breezy and the sun shines cheerfully.Filled with Evanovich's trademark style and wit, Full House is romantic suspense with a twist...Her life was pleasant, proper, and predictable-- until he showed up and trouble moved in...Polo instructor Nicholas Kaharchek senses danger the minute he sees Billie Pearce.
Full House, originally published in 1989 under the pen name Steffie Hall, is obviously the same author we love so much, but in her earlier days.Nick Kaharchek has a playboy reputation, owns a newspaper and a stable, teaching polo as a hobby.
Although it's a simply story without much depth, it's Janet Evanovich's characters that keep you interested.
Nick cons Billie into letting Deedee stay with her for a couple weeks until her wedding to professional wrestler Frankie The Assassin.
There's bugs everywhere.Keep yourself from comparing this to Evanovich's latest mysteries and you should enjoy it like I did.
Nick makes a deal with Billie and convinces her to let DeeDee stay with her until the wedding comes along.
As the story progresses, you see Billie going back and forth about her feelings with Nick and how Dee Dee is being Dee Dee (if you read the series you will understand what I am saying).
I will not spoil it for you but, it does have a feel-good happy ending even if there are bugs involved (yuck!!).Though this is no where near the Stephanie Plum series and this was one of the first books that she had ever written, I have to give her credit--I have read worse first books that were written that took forever to finish.
Yes, it's completely and utterly predictable - 38 year old single mother meets gorgeous millionaire and they fall for each other instantly - and yes, it's utterly implausible.
Sometimes you need utterly implausible fluff that doesn't require any brain power to read, especially when it's filled with a hilarious cast of characters and an over-abundance of horses, cats, and dogs (in case you're worried, nothing bad happens to any of them, unless you count Buffy the dog puking up a fake eyelash).
You know it's bad for you and that you'll probably get an ice cream headache as a result of eating it, but while you're eating it, it's pretty much everything you want.
I read this because I LOVE the Plum series by this author.
This series and some of her stand alone romance books (Manhunt, etc) were all right - but nothing great.
It felt like she made a list of reasons why the Plum novels were popular and then point by point addressed them in the rest of her novels.
So, if you are at a book trade store and they are .50 cents, pick them up - they are a light and funny read.
But I would never pay full price for any of the rest of her books.
I started “Full House” intending it to be my fluffy, fun book to read in between scenes on set.
Something I could easily put down and pick back up.
The story line was wonderfully charming and heartwarming as I predicted.
The ending though, caught me completely off guard.
At the end, I was shocked when “Full House” took on a dark, thrilling tone as a character’s true intentions unraveled.
Evanovich and Hughes lulled me into a false sense of security with their endearing story before taking the book in a completely different direction!
An incredible way to end a book!
After exhausting the Stephanie Plum series, I decided I would try out something else of Janet Evanovich's.
I'm not huge on the "romance" stuff, but seeing as how the Plum series wasn't super heavy on it (and it was quite funny), I thoroughyly enjoyed it.
When I decided to try out the Full series, I was disappointed.
The writing was similar to the Plum series, however I found it lacked the humor and the interesting characters that I had come to expect from Evanovich.
If you are searching for something similar to the Plum series, don't look here.
Wealthy newspaper owner and horseman Nick Kaharchek meets divorced mom Billie Pearce when she makes polo lessons at his stables part of her summer self-improvement program.Though she’s hopeless at polo, Billie is so cute that Nick begins to invent excuses to spend time with her.
First, he takes care of her when a horse steps on her foot; then, he arranges for his nutty cousin Deedee, a self-absorbed airhead, to board with Billie while her kids are away.I am a new fan of Janet Evanovich books and yet to be disappointed.
I started listening to audiobooks recently and ran across this Evanovich book.I always find myself laughing out loud at every one of her books.
Either I've listened to this book before and only remember bits and pieces or its a lot like one of her other books.
I wasn't familiar enough with it to stop listening, but I knew who the bad guy was from early on.
I just didn't know why he was the bad guy or what he was going to do that made him bad.
Maybe he was just supposed to be creepy.
If that was the case, Ms. Evanovich hit that one dead on.
I like the characters enough that if they appear in another book, I'd put it on my Want To Read shelf.
When the heroine keeps saying "stop!" and the male hero continually ignores her because he knows what she REALLY wants...it feels dated at best and assault-y at worst. Also, the idea that the hero is attracted to the heroine because she is the cookie-baking mom he never had? No thanks. There are plenty of fun, frothy romances with females who are strong and intelligent. I'll take one of those, please.
Didn't really care for it. The author mentions that this was written previously and she added/changed it with the help of another author and I think it kind of shows. At least it felt to me that I started reading one book and it was like I turned a page and it was a totally different book. Is supposed to be a mystery? A romance? It really felt like neither, it just sort of meandered on until it stopped. I'll keep reading the series, but I'm not in any hurry.
Den Humor im Buch fand ich grandios. Deedee ist mein Liebling. Max ist auch ganz toll. Die Geschichte zwischen Billie und Nick war ein bisschen schnell und überstürzt aber ich mochte es trotzdem. Ein sehr nettes Buch für zwischendurch mit ein bisschen Action / Spannung zum Ende hin! Ich will definitiv noch mehr Bücher von Janet Evanovich lesen!
I've had this series on my shelf for a long time, and figured I should read it. Evanovich really only has one style of writing, and that's quirky, silly characters combined with plots that are pretty much unbelievable. Although this story was pretty predictable, it was a quick, light read and was fairly entertaining.
Cute story, not a lot of depth, but that was OK. You need to suspend belief a little to make this one work.
Ridiculous. Where was the charm and the cast of loveable characters you expect from an Evanovich book? Everyone was a wooden caricature. To say this fell flat would be an understatement.
