https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2668340-midwinter
Also, in disappoint there is a bit of cursing, and the whole thinking of another man's wife with fondness really got on my nerves.For actual enjoyment, in the end, I'd give it about a 2.5 rating.
(Samuel) Johnson is portrayed so accurately that I spotted the misquote from him in Carnegie's famous book (end of the first chapter) and learned a bit more about the time period.
All in all, a decent read, but probably not one I will reread.*Content: cursing, d*, h*
31 AUG 2014 - currently reading. I am reading this one in advance of The Master of Ballantrae  Both authors cover the same subject matter - the Jacobite Rebellion of 1745. I thought it would be interesting to read how each author wrote about the Cause. Nice cover too! P.S. Find your free version here: http://www.feedbooks.com/book/1185/mi...http://www.openisbn.com/isbn/0755117093/(Note: You are able to read online here or download to PDF - this site has annoying "flashers" (those damn gifs (whic
Both authors cover the same subject matter - the Jacobite Rebellion of 1745.
Nice cover too!
P.S. Find your free version here: http://www.feedbooks.com/book/1185/mi...http://www.openisbn.com/isbn/0755117093/(Note: You are able to read online here or download to PDF - this site has annoying "flashers" (those damn gifs (which I personally hate) on the first page.
But you can download it as a PDF to your reader and be done with the flashers!https://ebooks.adelaide.edu.au/b/buch...Read about Midwinter here at WIKI: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Midwinte...2 SEP 2014 -- a young solicitor is charged with reading a long-forgotten manuscript discovered whilst cleaning out the cupboards of a company of solicitors.
Midwinter is one of John Buchan’s better novels.
The story is set in 1745 when Bonnie Prince Charlie’s sweeps down from Scotland to take the throne from and unpopular George the Second.
The story however has little to do with the campaign and even Midwinter (who features only periodically) and is more about the adventures of Alastair Maclean and the setbacks in fulfilling his mission.
While the story has a good realistic easy to follow plot and might otherwise appeal to a Scot, it is spoiled by poor proof reading.
Apart from these bad errors and a title that is totally misleading, this is a good novel.
Not as you might expect a story of the season (though this is in fact quite beautifully described), 
The answer was no doubt in one of my top 100 books lists, where this has been described as one of the greatest historical novels.Its OK.It appears that Buchan divided his time writing worthy novels (like this) and more crowd pleasers, like the 39 steps.This tells the story of a Jaconite agent, Alastair, sent into England to gain support for the uprising.
Difficult to read because of the dated prose and with characters that come and go at whim.
A Scotsman in Enemy EnglandMidwinter by John Buchan is a historical spy novel and it's a good book.The story is set in the time of Bonnie Prince Charlie, more precisely during the Jacobite rising of 1745/46, and its protagonist is a captain of the Scottish army travelling through England to join his Prince in Scotland.
He is helped by a not yet famous Samuel Johnson and a mysterious man called "Midwinter" rescues him ever again from almost certain death.I wrote a long review of the novel on my book blog which you can find following the link to Edith's Miscellany.

A 1924 novel set in England during the 1745 rebellion, following the travels of an agent (called Alistair Maclean!) sent to solicit support for the Scottish cause, but ends up being pursued after a double-cross.
It has elements of 39 Steps moved back 150 years, as the pursued moves around ‘Old England’ with the help of the mysterious character Midwinter.
He meets Samuel Johnson, who comes out with his famous quote ‘When a man is tired of London, he is tired of life’ over 30 years earlier than the date to which it is attributed, but what the heck.
I don't know where this book appeared from on my bookshelve from but I had been looking forward to reading it for a while and was suprised at how unknown it appears to be. It is a decent piece of historical fiction following the adventures of a Scottish soldier in England during the Jacobite uprising. While there are few details on the broader historical context, and much goes unexplained, the story trots along at a fair pace and, in the end, is a decent read - not engrossing but also never boring.
This is a tale set in 1745 concerning a young Jacobite in England who falls in love and also meets Samuel Johnson. There is also the backdrop of the mysterious travellers of Old England. An unlikely story with many coincidences but I found it quite charming.
Disappointed. It doesn't have the charm of Buchan's war novels, but it has all the sentiment and the stereotypes... ah the pure young woman with eyes of a child's innocent clarity and the brave slender shape of a youth. Bleurgh.
