https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/872333.Blue_Bloods
The writing is forced and trite, and things that should have been ommitted (why do we need a description of every single item of food throughout the book?)and some parts were montaged where they should have been described in detail (like when they found out they were blue bloods) and if I hear one more designer clothing reference, I'm going to punch something.Also, it's not a good thing if the name 'Schuyler' is the most normal in the entire book.
If your going to have your book set in a mdern, realistic setting, make it seem like it could possibly happen.
Cracked also told me that your brain derives pleasure from particularly predictable music because your brain enjoys predicting things and enjoys being right even more.Finally, humanity's explanation for NickelbackNo...
Check.Vampire hotty?
Because it actually tried hard to have an original storyline/mystery - even if both ended up nonsensical.2.
Book Review (This pic is from deviantart.com btw) I've been wanting to read this series for a long time now but unfortunately I was always got sidetracked by other vampire series (e.g. The Black Dagger Brotherhood series, Vampire Academy, House of Night, Evernight Series, Morganville Vampires, Sookie Stackhouse series, The Mortal Instruments Trilogy, Night Huntress). Whoa that was a long list, should I just say I'm a vampire addict? (blame this on Meyer's Twilight).Okay so yeah I picked it up du
(This pic is from deviantart.com btw) I've been wanting to read this series for a long time now but unfortunately I was always got sidetracked by other vampire series (e.g. The Black Dagger Brotherhood series, Vampire Academy, House of Night, Evernight Series, Morganville Vampires, Sookie Stackhouse series, The Mortal Instruments Trilogy, Night Huntress).
It was actually authored by a Filipina-American author(I'm a Filipina too btw), so yeah cool beans, should definitely read this to show some Filipino love.So now will gonna have pros and cons...Pros1.
Yeah I like it and will still read the next books ^^___________________________________________________________I think it's time for me to read a Vampire story told by a Filipina author >.<
Alright, I began to read junior fiction and young adult books to cut out the undesirable sex scenes and vulgar language.
Well, I have had to stop reading highly entertaining young adult books because of the sex and language.
Is it any wonder teen pregnancy is a problem, as well as substance abuse and vulgar language, if this kind of crap is being placed in these books?
If you want a clean cut book about vampires...don't read this book.
I've stepped down from my box and wish you a good day.
Introducing, the average main character in these crappy chick-lit mysteries: A young girl, who dresses "like a street urchin" but is still stunningly beautiful.
Oh, and then there's the other main annoying factor: the endless descriptions of clothes, hair, furniture, nuts...all bragging (in a not-so-subtle way) about how great rich people have it.
I was so bored through the descriptions of lavish hotels, expensive gowns, antique furniture...I thought I was going to drown in the endless drivel!Maybe if you're a really big fan of vampires (and many are) or you like reading about the lives of millionaires, you'll be able to get by reading this without TOTAL disgust.
I absolutely hated this book.
HATED it.
Being a long-time fan of vampires, I picked this up at Barnes & Noble thinking that it might be a quick, easy, interesting read.
The book itself is not terribly long, but I had a hard time getting through it.
The vampires are an ancient group of rich, snobby elitists who care more about fashion, money and society than they should for a group of powerful beings that's been around for hundreds of years.
The name-dropping in this book is truly horrendous.
People think the Twilight books are bad?
This book is so fucking stupid that I lost IQ points while reading it. The only reason I didn't DNF it was for the joke material. Because, seriously, this book has to be a joke, right?The premise had some potential - vampires who came over on the Mayflower, come into their vampireyness at age 15, and are reincarnated over and over again. ( ?) There are exactly 400 of them, and our special snowflake is a new one! Oh no! Not a New Soul!? (again... ) So, of course the powers that be are suspicious
Because, seriously, this book has to be a joke, right?The premise had some potential - vampires who came over on the Mayflower, come into their vampireyness at age 15, and are reincarnated over and over again.
...anyone?)Our special snowflake's name is Schuyler.
And, of course there is a modeling casting call at her school that all of the girls go to but they pick Schuyler to be the next supermodel as she just happens to be walking by because she's soooooooo beautiful.I mean, come on, those things are just a given.
spoilers for both this book and Masquerade, the sequelLet's see - rotating 3rd person POV between three main female characters - Schuyler, our old-money-but-now-broke semi-orphan outcast at Extremely Posh School; Mimi, our old-money-and-new-money-and-unbelievably-rich popular girl who is The Queen Bee everywhere and not just at EPS; and Blair, old-money-with-a-new-money-stepmother recent transplant to EPS from Texas who is absorbed into Mimi's social circle but feels an outsider.
Ah, yes, the slightly ridiculous subplot of Schuyler and Blair getting chosen to be models for this one fashion company owned by a fellow Blue Blood ('cause they're all rich and gorgeous, see, and wildly successful), which makes Mimi violently jealous, because she's the It Girl and the only one allowed to have a semi-naked billboard in Times Square, gosh.
This series is basically Gossip Girl meets Twilight.
Melissa de la Cruz is obviously a great author...However, she does not follow through with this series.
She spends more time talking about designer labels, and what the elite are wearing...than she does building up the plot.
I felt completely let down, because many people had suggested this series to me.Having said that...I still want to know what happens, which means I will give Melissa de la Cruz a second chance by reading the second installment of this series.
Melissa de la Cruz writes well, but this book is lacking in the plot...
Family lines and real estate and designer clothes are all important to setting the stage for the New York it crowd, but the name-dropping brands got old about page two.
The angel Gabriel come down from heaven to live as a self-important New York vampire?
I get that de la Cruz is introducing a series here so there has to be some things left open, but the main struggle I invested 300 pages for should have given me some conclusion, some closure, some reason for this to be the end of this story, but nothing really resolves itself and the answers I did get were weak.
This is the first book in another paranormal YA series.
For a change, this book is written in 3rd person, so you don't have to endure hundreds of pages in a mind of some boy-obsessed teenage girl.
Cruz also develops a rather interesting vampire lore which even has some well-known historical events weaved into it.I am not going to pretend however that this book is something extra special.
Yeah, and there is almost no climax or a satisfying ending.Nevertheless, this book is a page-turner and I am interested enough in the story to give the rest of the series a try.
Did you know that all the beautiful and the humanitarian things in New York City are all thanks to rich angel space vampires?
Gabriel/Gabrielle/Allegra is supposedly the strongest of the angel vampires, but she's in a coma because she swore off of human familiars (blood bags) after her husband (Schuyler's father) died.
Gabriel and the archangel Michael (who turns out to be Charles Force, Jack and Mimi's "dad) were not condemned to the life of the angel vampires because of misbehavior, they chose to go with them to help lead them.

Oh, my silly love of teen vampire books.
Melissa de la Cruz makes a fun world, easy to read, with characters that you love and hate.
How can you help but love to hate Mimi Force?
It's a fun, light read.
It took me all of 4 or 5 hours, after which I promptly bought the next two books, which also took that long to read.
Not as deep or detailed as they could have been, as I really, really wanted them to be.
My Robert Jordan-primed brain wanted the two-page scenes to stretch out for chapters.
Read the full review here @A Perfection Called BooksThe Concept:Blue Bloods is a trio combination of Gossip Girl, angels, and vampires.
Most of this book was spent describing everyone's designer-brand things, I'd have liked more of the story to be about, oh I don't know, the plot perhaps?
Cruz is great at describing, sometimes she goes overboard though.
Stop focusing on the wealth of the Blue Bloods and the Upper East Side scene.
I just want to puke when I think of Jack and Mimi together.
Bleh :P If I see any incestuous things happening in this series I will chuck the book across the room and start purging.
And a little piece from every YA novel you can remember reading.The Final Taste/The Verdict:Doesnt leave a bad taste in your mouth but it definitely could have been better.The Story:The glamorous life of the Upper East Side citiziens -with a vampire twist.What Went Wrong:What the book focuses on is completely wrong.
It can create wonders.-(view spoiler)[I saw Schuyler not being a Blue Blood and being a 'a product of Caerimonia Osculor, of a union between a vampire and a human familiar' coming from miles away but her being a new soul; that- I havent thought about.
I'm laying the book away now, perhaps I will finish it later......
Also, the latin in the book wasn't correct, I'm definitely subtracting points for that.
She describes what everbody is wearing, on every occasion.
I'm glad a finished this book, and I'm pretty sure I'm not reading any more books of this series.I'm going to include some of the clothing descriptions, to illustrate my annoyance;#1 Schuyler always looked like she was drowning in fabric.
She was wearing her favorite pair of black-and-white Jack Purcell sneakers, the ones with the duct-taped hole on the right toe.
"Survival of the richest, the city's ours before the fallThey're Monaco and Hamptons bound, but we don't feel like outsiders at all."- Halsey, "New Americana"3.5 StarsBetter than I thought it would be, and my random book of the month, decided through a fair bit of weird numerology and enough "eeny meeny miney mo" the reference librarian probably thought I'd gone crazy.The Summary (that they don't give you): So there's this girl Schuyler (pronounced Skylar, I think) who doesn't fit in :( at her exclusive NYC private school, but after strange things start happening to her, she gets an invitation to an exclusive group of Manhattan socialites who are actually (gasp!) vampires.
It's SO HORRIBLE and I can't stop reading.Okay, the good: Melissa de la Cruz, in Blue Bloods, has created a whole new sort of vampire.
It gets a bit tiresome to read about all the splendid things bratty rich kids get up to in the elite social class most of the characters are in, but it is part of the setting (and, you know, the title IS Blue Bloods), so it's not like it's unexpected.
If nothing else, you will feel ENORMOUSLY CLEVER once you finish untangling all of Blue Bloods' super-complicated vampire lore.
The idea of older generations of vampires being reincarnated into future generations sounded pretty cool.
That shit doesn't matter in vampire novels.
But of course, she's as pretty as hell, so her zero personality doesn't have to matter at all.
And oh yeah, she's had a tragic past (parents died, whatdiayaknow?)This seems to be a fault in many vampire novels.
The female protagonist always has to be beautiful with shitty character qualities.
Fucking Mary-Sues everywhere.The rest of the characters were shallow assholes.
Those vampires are all rich, so what does it matter if they're a bunch of reincarnated snobs?
estoy asustada de que no espero NADA , nada en estos dias y me esta sorprendiendo en buen plan.antes de la lecturahace años lei la antologia " noches de graduación del infierno  o alguno de esa saga que terminaba con la palabra del infierno. Melissa de la Cruz habia escrito un cuento y me habia gustado muchisimo , luego pasaron otros años y me engaché con la serie las brujas de east end lamentablemente fue cancelada la serie . deseé leer los libros con el fin de continuar pero no los pude conseg
y este año me vi la pelicula los descendientes , que esta basado en un libro de Melissa.
asi que me dije este año.
leamos algo de ella y como me gusta los vampiros vamos.
durante la lecturame habia dicho que era como un gossip girl pero la serie no me gustó pero este libro me ha encantado .
me ha sorprendido que hace una mezcla como que era ángeles y al venir a la tierra se hicieron vampiros o algo asi.
al finalizar la lecturaestuvo muy bien , se abrió el abanico de opciones que puede haber en los próximos libros .
(3.5 stars)it was kinda superficial and filled with designer clothing descriptions, but some of the plot twists were quite good and i do like the overall vampire lore. i think i'll read the second one in the series, but only time will tell if i can make it to the last book, lol.
I almost felt like I was in NYC again while reading this book. Love the idea of the silver bloods and the connection to the pilgrims. Very creative!
The Shadowhunters meeting Gossip Girl.I must say, that I liked the main plot, the whole idea of vampires living in some kind of community and being reborn.
But I didn't like the writing AT ALL.
I felt like I was reading some crappy fanfiction.
Also, the main character (well, actually, there are probably a few main characters) who is the embodiment of all the cliches - her parents are dead, she wears different clothes, has only one true friend and is totally not popular, then some popular guy has some interest in her but it turns out she's different than the rest of her community.But it's a quick read and I would recommend that to people who want to read something that's not demanding concentration.
Αν και έχω διαβάσει αρκετά παρόμοια βιβλία, αυτό πιστεύω πως θα μπορούσε, αν η συγγραφέας δεν το έχανε κάπου στο δρόμο, να γίνει καλύτερο. Πως κατάφερε και έμπλεξε τα βαμπίρ με τους αγγέλους και τον Εωσφόρο ακόμα προσπαθώ να καταλάβω!
Okay, I'll admit, I picked this up in the first place because it sounded vaguely like Gossip Girl, which is a guilty pleasure of mine.
At the end of the book I only halfway found myself liking Bliss (actual name.
I think that part of the reason I can stomach Gossip Girl and I can't stomach this is that the GG characters actually have conflict.
Having the stuff with the Roanoke colony was cool and I actually wish that had been more of the focus.
The present day stuff was too much and over the top.
It was like half the book was just name brand dropping and I just didn't cqre.
I don't care about brands in real life, why would I care in a book?Beyond that, the Blue Blood stuff was confusing.
No. It's just too weird and hard to get away from and that's the kinda stuff that shows up in horror movies when you finally figure out someone's the villain.
I liked Oliver until he was something in the realm of Blue Bloods.
She attends a prestigious NYC school, where she doesn't fit in with her peers, except her best friend Oliver, and though her family used to be one of the wealthiest in the city, their holdings are now few and money sparse.
A fact which his twin sister takes much issue with.After being invited to join The Committee, an elite society everyone at school knows about, Schuyler learns some startling things about herself and her family that she isn't sure how to deal with.
And the dog she mysteriously found--also not an accident.As mysterious deaths continue to plague the Blue Bloods, a secret from deep in their past comes forth.
I tried to get into this book several times, but each attempt was failed.
I couldn't even make it all the way through the first chapter without skimming.
Even the names in this book annoyed me.
Kitty, Aggie, Mimi, Trinity, Jack Force, BLISS!!
The twin sibling "relationship" between Jack and Mimi seemed slightly inappropriate with scenarios such as 'he was starting to look at that Schuyler girl the way he looks at me' and 'he hugged her to him, pressing his body to hers.' Paraphrasing of course.
And sadly, those two were the only characters I found even remotely interesting in this story.
I guess I got caught up with all of the vampire folklore because of the Twilight series, and I was looking for a substitute.
Blue Bloods is a light and to a small degree entertaining read.
It kept me interested barely enough to want to finish the book, but it definitely was not captivating.
This book seemed to be more about fashion, cliques, partying and drinking than about vampire mythology.
I bought the second and third book before I finished reading Blue Bloods, and I kind of wish I would have held off.
