https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79421.The_Heavenly_Man
i only read this book 'cause my mom kept on telling i kept on reading books about vampires, witches and such and that I'm turning one myself. so, what i did is, I took one of the books in my sister's shelf and it was this one. To tell you the truth, i just read this to impress my mom but i actually realized a lot of things. Let just say its a lot, ok?
An incredibly challenging view of commitment to the Lord. As horrific as his experiences were, Yun and his coauthor Paul Hattaway share the story with amazing joy and vision. I did lay awake at night thinking about some of the abuses Yun suffered, but this is not a depressing book; it is both tremendously humbling and extremely visionary.
During his life practicing and preaching the faith, Yun faced tremendous religious persecution including years of imprisonment and torture.
Yun’s courage and dedication inspire western Christians to examine their own commitment and to truly value the religious freedom we possess.
In places where practicing your faith means life or death, doesn’t it make sense that the astonishing can occur?
How far am I willing to let the Spirit take me?Yun doesn’t pray for the fall of communism in China.
He prays for a stronger spiritual back to face oppression in order to bring more glory to God. This courageous man speaks calmly about the real possibility that he will die in the mission field.
I felt uncomfortable when reading this book firstly due to the title. Should anyone really name themselves "The Heavenly Man?" I found the many miracles almost unbelievable and would like to have seen other sources that supported his version of events. I'm just not sure I can accept that these things really happened and as another reviewer has pointed out, several of the stories mirror things that happened in scripture down to the last detail (Yun's escape from prison) I wouldn't recommend this as it may confuse a non-believer or a not so discerning believer...
I knew there was a lot of controversy surrounding the book right about the time I started reading it.
Anyhow, while I want to keep my mind open to the possibility that God can/does work in miraculous ways I found this book over the top.
I've read a couple other missionary biographies and those seem more realistic, God works miracles but its not on every page.
I also found that he continuously took verses out of context and never once in the entire book did he fully explain the gospel.
He shares his personal struggles with God, his anguish and questioning of the LORD and his experience of finding Him faithful, again and again.This is a powerful book.
4 stars.For those who would like more information to complement this biography, I would also recommend Randy Alcorn's historical fiction work "Safely Home" and David Aikman's non-fiction exploration of the Church in China, published as "Jesus in Beijing".____________Reading this book again in summer of 2015, and interacting on Goodreads.
Some people write that 'every Christian' should read this book, or that Brother Yun is so incredible.
Yun is much more popular among Christians outside his own Henan Province.
1) The larger fellowship of Christian leaders in Henan Province have distance themselves from Yun and his claims.
Claims about Watchman Nee made outside of China do not accord with the testimony of those attending the Shanghai Christian Assembly in the 1940'a and 50's.
[Reviewers note: Just checked a new book, "China's Opening Door." Author Dennis Balcombe details some of the mighty events of the Christian church in Bro. Yun's own Henan Province.
Balcombe details the faith of other Christians there, but not Yun. Why?]
We read this as a family a few years back, but the story has never faded. It is definitely one of a kind. Brother Yun went through some of the most extreme torture, both physically and mentally, while he was in China, but he experienced the most important thing in life too, God mercy and grace. He fasted for more the 40 days, I don't remember exactly, but definitely experienced a life empowered by the Holy Spirit. It is intense, but it definitely is a life changing book.
It's a watershed book that will turn the reader to prayer and praise.”Series: Non-fictionSpiritual Content- Over 250 Scriptures from title page to back-cover are quoted, mentioned or referenced; An huge, amazing amount of Faith, witnessing and praying; ‘H’s are not capital until the Repentance part at the end; The Lord speaks to Brother Yun many times and sends him visions as well; Many mentions of those in the Bible and book of the Bible; Many songs are sung and written out; Martyrs for the Cross and how they were killed; At very low times, the enemy would tempt Brother Yun.
Lots of controversy surrounds this book regarding whether many of the miracles Brother Yun talks about experiencing in this book really happened or not, since they resemble miracles found in the Bible.
I went into reading this book with an open mind because I love a good biography showing God accomplishing His purpose by working through man.
The things that Brother Yun went through are incredibly horrifying that no man should ever have to go through.
The miracles that happen to Yun are pretty incredible as well and I can see why they are met with skepticism.
it has challenged me more than any other book i've ever read.yun's story (which is completely true) shows what surrendering our lives to Christ looks like.
it's a clear picture of what living selflessly looks like, what being willing to go where your sent by God looks like and what trusting Him in unbearable circumstances looks like.and it's a clear picture of what it looks like when God delivers us from evil and harm and impossible situations.seriously...this book is ridiculously amazing.
He is moving in powerful, practical and real ways.b) God is not limited by anything, including our situations or our limited abilities.c) God is the one true God and He is forgiving, merciful, full of grace and HE LOVES US!just go read the book.
This was a fantastic book.
It tells the story of Brother Yun, a Chinese Christian who played a significant role in the house church movement of China.
His autobiography tells the story of his inspiring devotion to Christ, his multiple imprisonments (and experiences of abuse and torture), and the amazing miraculous ways he has seen God work in his life.
It took me a few chapters to get into the book, but then I was hooked.
This book was full of wisdom and very encouraging.
It has challenged how I see the Christian walk and what I want my life to look like.
Even when things go badly for us, especially as Christians, we cry out to God and say "why are you letting this happen to me?" We think we deserve the good stuff--you know, as though it's our birthright to not have to suffer.This book will forever nag me when I complain.
This book will challenge you because it will confront you with questions we don't want to think about.
Do you think that miracles have ceased, and God no longer works as he did in biblical times?For believers, the stories in this book will challenge you with things you've been taught about how God works.
The true life story of Brother Yun. Liu Zhenying took Christ as his Savior at the age of 16 in 1974. For the following 27 years, he was a leader in the Christian movement in China which led to two imprisonments, many incarcerations, and persecution, torture and life beyond our imagination. This book truly made me realize how easy it is to take our faith for granted in those countries where freedom of religion is truly a freedom. While in more recent times, there has been more and more disparag
The true life story of Brother Yun. Liu Zhenying took Christ as his Savior at the age of 16 in 1974.
This book truly made me realize how easy it is to take our faith for granted in those countries where freedom of religion is truly a freedom.
While in more recent times, there has been more and more disparagement of Christians here in the US, we still have no understanding at all of what it truly means to stand up and live for our faith knowing that it may truly cost us our lives.
Brother Yun finally escaped to Myanmar and then on to Germany where he is now a German citizen and still fights for the Christians of China.
The writing style just failed to captivate me and bring me "inside" the story and so I was eager to finish it just to get it done with.
I presume this book would be even better if the writing style was improved, but because of the story that really blesses the reader, I'm sure you'll find it worth reading, too.
Still, while reading the book, I found myself rethinking so many things and by the end, I actually wanted more.I really recommend this to Christians looking to improve their faith and loyalty to the Lord.
This book showed me many things including that I suffer and sacrifice very little for Jesus. It was convicting and also incredibly encouraging to read of God's amazing work in China and Brother Yun's heart for the gospel. The church truly does thrive in times of persecution as Christians must rely on God for everything. I highly recommend this book!
Must readI legit have no words. I kept thinking the book would end bc of this struggle or that but it didn’t. This man has endured more then his share, for sure.
It is a heart-wrenching read as Brother Yun describe living the Christian life--from the serious famine of Bibles, illegal Church meetings, and evangelizing different parts of China.
Reading about his imprisonment seems so different than reading the account of those who were POWs--Brother Yun's testimony gives hope of one who is living out the Christian life in a situation that most people would survive by being driven by hate.
Good work--I read this book thinking of where I was in my life while all these events was going on in the life of Brother Yun and other Chinese Christians persecuted for their faith.
It reads sort of like a collection of journal entries and letters kind of flung together.
However, Brother Yun's story/testimony, as well as his wife's and various other co-workers and friends, is nothing short of miraculous.
What a beautiful story of love and devotion to God!
This is not a name it and claim it, Christianity is fun kind of book, it's like the life of Paul in contemporary China.
I think mainstream American Christians would struggle with this one as a life of suffering and struggle, albeit many victories as well, is emphasized.
Nevertheless, I've loved every minute of reading it.
Those who are Christians will benefit by learning what it really means to follow Christ, and you will be challenged to live up to what Jesus Christ has taught.
It is also a lesson on how a follower of Christ must cultivate a close relationship with Jesus in order be used by God to extend the mercy of God to those He has chosen to receive it.
This is also a warning of what Christians in the West may be soon experiencing as the US government has repudiated the principles of liberty in exchange for the fleeting materialism of this present age.
I do not want to stay in the same place after reading this book but I am encouraged to become more like Christ and surrender my life again to his call.
So many parts stood out, the faithfulness of the church in China, in the midst of persecution....
Brother Yun says, "Don't pray for the persecution to stop!
Then the world will see that God is with us, empowering us to live in a way that reflects his love and power."He talked about a time when the western church started smuggling other christian materials into China along with the bibles, and the disunity that followed within the home churches, where previously there was none.
I was also encouraged by the house churches of China's focus on missions.
Their testimonies are added to the book to bear witnesses to Yun's testimony since the stories are fantastic about what God did for him and what sufferings he endured.
After reading this book, I felt convicted about complaining about anything and became much aware of my spiritual or physical weaknesses and inability to endure any significant suffering.
Obviously, we will never be able to endure what Yun and his friends did without God's grace.
This book does make one evaluate themselves and pray to remain faithful under pressure as Yun has done and all the saints have in Christian history.
Lui, who is better known to all as Brother Yun, suffered torture,abuse and imprisonments but still remained devoted to Christ.This was a very powerful to read.
The language in the book was easy to read but the content addressing how the Chinese Christians live in danger because of their faith was hard to digest…..beatings, forced abortions, sterilizations, isolation, nakedness, imprisonment without a trial, starvation and any kind of torture and abuse possible.
But these souls survive by offering their sufferings to Christ.
You will never forget reading Brother Yun’s story.Thank you to book fun.org for this Book.
In reading this book I understood that when Brother Yun was arrested for preaching the good news of Jesus, the communist thugs would torture him for information about the location of other Christians.
When asked what town he was from, he said "Heaven" in order to protect his Christian friends.This book is filled with amazing and miraculous stories of God's provision.
Having said that, even the non-religoius will find Brother Yun's story of standing up for his beliefs in the face of persecution to be inspiring.It is believed that there are more Christians in China than any other country on this planet.
From a western point of view it is hard to understand how Brother Yun was willing and able to go through incredible suffering for the sake of Christ.
Yet Brother Yun's suffering and perseverance, and that of uncounted Chinese who have given all for Christ, brought the gospel to millions of people in mainland China, incredible fruit born out of severe suffering.
In this autobiographical book, Brother Yun recounts not only his excruciating punishment and imprisonments by Chinese authorities, but he also reveals his own inner struggles and suffering.
So do other Christians.
What a challenging and inspiring read.Despite some malicious attempts to discredit his testimony, Brother Yun's story has been vouched for by other well known house church leaders from China.Some of the early chapters left me very convicted about our Western versions of Christianity, but the final chapters are extraordinarily encouraging.
Brother Yun is generous toward non-Chinese Christians and points out that persecution comes in differing forms.
He left me with a strong desire to live "sold-out" for Jesus Christ no matter what that will ever mean in my own life.Read the book!

Brother Yun received Christ when he was a young man and from the time of his acceptance he had repeated visions from God. When he faced imprisonment and torture for his belief he would come out of it praising God all the louder.Written from his perspective, with assistance from Paul Hattaway, this book opens the eyes of Christians everywhere of how a journey with God may not always be easy, but it is always rewarding.
Thank you to Brother Yun, Monarch books and bookfun.org for allowing me to read this book in exchange for my honest review.
Read out loud to JD and Joseph
This is a powerful story of a man with daring faith. Loved it!
