https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34501.A_Hat_Full_of_Sky
Pratchett’s 2004 Discworld story Hat Full of Sky (and second featuring Tiffany Aching and her friends the pictsies – the Nac Mac Feegle wee free men) was a joy to read.I’d like to see this made into a film just to see how a clever and talented director handled Miss Level.
Like all of Pratchett’s Discworld books, this is wryly funny and sardonically playful and he takes on some heavy themes like family, tradition, peer pressure and isolation but wrapped up in a fun sized parade of interesting characters and entertaining scenes.
The Nac Mac Feegles hae got me tawkin' lae 'em. Crivens! It's a wee bittie story o' hags right enough, the big wee hag o' the hills bein' the verra center o' it all, but it may gi' ye a bad case o' the thinkin'.I dinna like tae stop readin'.(To the the Bigjobs: Discworld just keeps getting better and better. Keep a sharp eye out and you will see many references to other stories hidden in the telling.)
His books about the Discworld started out a pun-filled parodies of fantasy novels, and have evolved into satires on our modern world that usually leave me with more profound thinking to do afterward that most “serious fiction.” A Hat Full of Sky is a sequel to The Wee Free Men and is about Tiffany Aching’s apprenticeship as a witch, far from her home on the chalk country.
And funny as hell – I will never stop laughing at the Wee Free Men.So, go out and read some Pratchett, by gum!
Start with the Wee Free Men, even if they are “kids books”, and then bust out the rest of the Discworld.
Tiffany is now a few years older and is off to start learning Witching from Miss Level, a witch living in a cottage in the middle of the woods, far away from the open land of the Chalk where Tiffany knows she belongs.We meet Tiffany once more and she's much the same as she was in The Wee Free Men, headstrong and wonderful, wanting to learn, needing to find things out and general being an amazing little girl indeed.In A Hat Full of Sky, however, Tiffany gets the Pratchett treatment even more than she had before, and that includes a bag full o' flaws put right in to her.
With the help of the Pictsies, Tiffany demonstrated that the most important talent a witch needs is to keep her eyes open and use her common sense, just like her beloved Granny Aching used to do.In this second book, young Tiffany must leave the Chalk and be apprenticed to a more experienced witch who can show her how to develop and control her native talents, beyond making cheese – a sort of going to Hogwarts, but in a private tutoring form.
Now they’ve arranged for her to be apprenticed to Miss Level, who lives in the mountains and is considered a bit “odd” even by witch standards.Tiffany learns that there’s precious little magic involved in her world’s version of witchcraft—spells and potions are left to wizards, who tend to be pompous buffoons.
For instance, all that remained of Professor Bustle could fit in a mason jar.(view spoiler)[ The hiver, working through Tiffany, kills one of Miss Level’s bodies.
“You have friends,” Granny tells Tiffany at one point.
Freakin' Terry Pratchett rules. What in the world have i been doing with all my life? I have so many books to read! However i sit inspired by the bravery of Rob Anybody and, therefore, i shall fling myself head first with no helmet...one fearsome book at a time. A Hatful of Sky is a follow up to The Wee Free Men. It picks up just where the other left off and continues Terry's incredibly witty fantasy which clearly stand a bar above other fanatsy.
"A Hat Full of Sky" is Pratchett's second Tiffany Aching book and his third young adult novel.
At this point I can barely determine how this series is different from other books in the Discworld series other than the fact that it's protagonist is herself a young adult.
Most young adults who enjoy this book would probably like the rest of the series since Discworld is smarter and vastly less appalling than most YA fiction.All of the elements from the last book are present here.
In the witch series Weatherwax is a main character and often portrayed as cantankerous and difficult, whereas in the Aching books she's viewed basically as a god among witches.
Söylenebilecek o kadar şey var ki kitap ve kitabın yaptığı şeyi ne kadar iyi yaptığı hakkında; ne yazsam kitabı anlatmaya yetmeyecek.
Belki yarın gündüz gözüyle bir şeyler yazmayı denerim ama şimdilik bu kadar.
Genel olarak Diskdünya serisini herkes okumalı.
O kadar ince işlenmiş bir mizah ve anlatım var ki, muhteşem.
Tiffany Sızı serisini ise herkese önermekle birlikte özel olarak benim aksime henüz çok fazla kitap okuyup palazlanmamış ya da daha kibar bir tabirle henüz yaşı kemale ermemiş okurlara öneriyorum.
Zamanında Harry Potter'ın bizim neslimize yaşattığı deneyimin çok daha muhteşemini Tiffany Sızı ile yaşayabilirsiniz.
İlk kitap Küçük Özgür Adamlar'dan başlayın ve bu kitapla devam edin.
Bir DiskDünyasever olmasanız dahi, ilgiyle izleyebilirsiniz bu seriyi; zaten en başınabuyruk ilerleyen kitaplar da bunlar.Terry Pratchett'ın son dönemlerinde yazmaya giriştiği Tiffany Sızı serisinde dikkatimi çeken başka bir şey var: Hakiki İngiltere'ye dair, bitmek bilmez bir sevda.
Gerçek İngiltere'nin, İngiltere'nin kalbinin attığı toprakların özlemiyle dolu sanki burası.O yüzden, her ne kadar young-adult kategorisine girse de, Tiffany Sızı serisi başka bir şey Terry'nin gözünde.
Bence.Neyse; konuyu anlatacağıma, birkaç alıntı koyayım."Tıpkı yaşamda olduğu gibi, balonlarda da ipi ne zaman bırakmayacağını bilmenin çok önemli olduğunu öğrenmiş, küçük bir çocuğun çıkardığı geleneksel sesti bu.
Başladığı yere geri dönmek hiç, gitmemekle aynı değildi."“Size inanılacak bir masal anlatayım,” dedi Tiffany.
I remember after reading Tiffany Aching’s first book I thought it was just so strange and didn't get what was going on at the end.
So here we have Tiffany in the beginning of her witch training and things are not going the way she thought.
The reader is not only in Tiffany's head so if Tiffany misses something or is in denial we have the Wee Free Men to make there blunt though sometimes strange observations.
The Wee Free Men have to help Tiffany which I’m glad about.
The Wee Free Men are so funny and bring so much to the story because of it.
Second Thoughts are the thoughts you think about the way you think.
Third Thoughts are thoughts that watch the world and think all by themselves.
“But we gave that up, for she wuz a schemin’, greedy, ill-fared carlin, that she was!”“Aye, and it wuz no’ because she threw us oout o’ Fairyland for being completely pished at two in the afternoon, whatever any scunner might mphf mphf…” said Daft Wullie.“Pished?” said Miss Level.“Aye…oh, aye, it means…tired.
Aye. Tired.
That’s whut it means,” said Rob Anybody, holding his hands firmly over his brother’s mouth.
Pratchett is brilliant an witty, as usual. Tiffany is the most talented young witch - teaming up with the greatest old witch, my personal favorite, Granny Weatherwax. Deep, mystical, sandy, and very human lessons are learned. The Nac Mac Feegle never abandon Tiffany, nor Special Sheep Liniment. The quirky side characters are fun: Miss Level with her two bodies and circus past, along with Oswald, the obsessively tidy poltergeist. We also get a much more jovial version of Witch Trials than in history. Fun as always :)
Following the resounding success of my Locus Quest, I faced a dilemma: which reading list to follow it up with? Variety is the spice of life, so I’ve decided to diversify and pursue six different lists simultaneously. This book falls into my LOCUS Y-A list.I think I’ll always have a soft-spot for imaginative young-adult speculative fiction and as the good people at Locus did such a grand job with picking their Sci-Fi winners, I’ll trust them to single out some special y-a books too.I've never t
This book falls into my LOCUS Y-A list.I think I’ll always have a soft-spot for imaginative young-adult speculative fiction and as the good people at Locus did such a grand job with picking their Sci-Fi winners, I’ll trust them to single out some special y-a books too.I've never tried to write a review on my phone before, but my darling wife has just reinstalled Warcraft for the first time since Fin was born and has claimed the PC for the foreseeable future, so I guess I'd better practice.
(iPhone autocorrect keeps trying to rename my son Gin. This tickles me.)This is book two in the Tiffany Aching sequence.
A Hat Full of Sky is the 2nd book in the Tiffany Aching subseries of Discworld.
I really enjoyed this one, maybe slightly more than I enjoyed the first Tiffany Aching book.
It had an equally good story, and I thought it was a bit funnier.
She travels to the mountains where she’ll serve as an apprentice for a witch named Miss Level, who is a bit unusual.
There were also some good messages in the story about being nice to people you don’t really want to be nice to, helping people you don’t really want to help, and doing the things that need to be done even if you really don’t want to do them.

I quite enjoyed the first book of the Tiffany Aching arc of Discworld, The Wee Free Men, but A Hat Full of Sky steps it up a notch.
It is just a bit easier to be drawn into the world I feel.In this book our Tifany is two years older and she is finally starting her studies as a witch.
It is an interesting take on the witch compared to other fiction.Tiffany is older but her self confidence has taken a hit when she is unable to do something and her studies don’t quite turn out like she expected.
2010 August 172004 August 20Well, Voyage of the Dawn Treader is out, and Terry Pratchett is in for the read aloud.
The Nac Mac Feegle are delightful low-comedy anti-fairies and a good foil to the thoroughly mundane business of sheep-farming.As an aside, Pratchett has just described a giant horse carved into the chalk, and made several mentions of skylarks, all of which pleases the XTC fans in the house.***2014 August 7Apparently I read this in August.
When I read Good Omens last week I thought the authors hadn't gotten their eleven-year-olds quite right, that they were too young.
Pratchett make eleven-year-old Tiffany feel just right.
These are the best.
Also, Tiffany, a strong character in the first book, just becomes stronger and more thoughtful as her arc progresses.And we see a bit of Death, which is always a good thing - in this series, at least.And, of course, the Mac Nac Feegle's themselves getting into all sorts of trouble while helping out.The Witches have always been a favorite of mine in the Discworld universe, and Tiffany is an excellent edition to their cadre - I so enjoy spending time with her and everyone in her world.I think I'm going to wait for winter for the next in the arc, as it is called Wintersmith, and it just seems fitting.
Tiffany leaves home to learn the skills of a witch, grows up a little bit, is misguided by social pressure, and finds her way back.
A huge part of being a witch involves helping people, even the ones that don't know they want/need it.
Along the way she is opened up to a bodysnatching evil that requires some intervention from Nac Mac Feegles.Something I've never noticed about Discworld books before but realized here, Pratchett at times gives people (or sentient non-humans) odd ways of referring to themselves, that avoids gendered pronouns entirely yet it isn't awkward.
Inanimate objects sometimes have gendered pronouns as well.
Wee Free Men, while still entertaining, didn't catch me on reread quite like it did the first time through. A Hat Full of Sky on the other hand was pure magic and everything I remember it being. My favorite Aching book.
Her scenes with Rob Anybody are pretty genius.I also really enjoy Miss Level (her particular condition is one of the few details about this book I remembered).
I feel like he's been learning how to do it, since he started with Magrat (there are multiple others who have elements of Petulia, Lady Sibyl being one).But yeah, this is a very enjoyable sub-universe, and one that seems to really take advantage of what TP has learned and the skills he's developed over the course of the broader Discworld series.P.S. The glossary of Nac Mac Feegle terms at the start of the book is a joy.
There's something truly magical in the way Sir Pratchett uses words and even the smallest keen observation to make a notion so different than it was before, to make you realize something that you knew perhaps all along but hadn't seen it properly until you read these words and I think that's what Granny Weatherwax would say is witchery.
I think I shall be spending more time among the company of Witches this year round because even if I'm never to become one, a person can do with a bit more wisdom from witches.
I'm gonna go do some more thinking now.
Tiffany is a fantastic heroine, and these are some of my favourite Pratchett books. I think that anyone 10+ could read and love any of his books (although you might be a bit confused about some of the jokes he makes, as I was), but these are particularly about and for kids. Re-reading them now, they're as funny and adventureous as ever. A perfect way to get into Pratchett. 8+*Please note: this review is meant as a recommendation only. Please do not use it in any marketing material, online or in print, without asking permission from me first. Thank you!*
Tiffany Aching is apprenticed to Miss Level, a witch with two bodies. While under her employ, Tiffany is possessed by an evil spirit, known as a hiver. Assisted by the hilarious Nac Mac Feegles, led by the aptly named Rob Anybody, she has to exorcise this demon and then outwit this enemy that cannot be vanquished. Meanwhile, she also allies herself with Granny Weatherwax, one of the premier witches of her day. Amusing romp, like the first book in the series.
There's a reason that Terry Pratchett was such a well-known and loved writer. He's able to put into words universal feelings and experiences and weave them into a story that is funny, charming, and poignant.
Even better then the first Tiffany! The plot, the characters, everything is great. I just love the development of characters..and, of course, the Wee Free Men <3.
:D The witty pace and way that things evolve and are revealed are brilliant done with the characters getting themselves into what would seem to be impossible situations though all time, like we find with Tiffany, reflecting and planning on their next actions which gives the book a very calculated feel to parts of which acts as the perfect balance for the heroic and quite possibly insane actions of the Nac Mac Feegle who are intent on trying to steal everything from spoons to nails as well as the entire show!
(Until the church basically declared war on female intellect and authority by declaring them witches and burning them at the stake or drowning them in ponds and rivers - but that is a whole other rant.) Pratchett has used the wise women as a basis for his witches and combines their traditions with real magical powers which means that on the Disc, witches are feared and respected in equal measure.The Nac Mac Feegles also make an appearance, along with their new Kelda (or Queen), and Granny Weatherwax (my favourite character in the entire Discworld series) is heavily featured in this instalment as well.My favourite quote: "Tiffany made a hat out of the sky and sat on the old pot-bellied stove, listening to the wind around the horizons while the sun went down [...] The sun set, which is everyday magic, and warm night came.
