https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1751627.Beulah_Land
Joj, sećate li se ove divne knjige... Da li ste je čitali?
I *loved* it then, and remembered it with great fondness, so I decided to pick it up again now to revisit the story.This was such a profound illustration of how much my tastes have changed in 30+ years.
Cardboard characters, sex scenes that should have won awards for "worst sex scenes in fiction," (one in particular was so completely inane and such an insult to the reader's intelligence that I almost dumped the book at that point), and ridiculous situations.
And as this book is a family saga from the pre-Civil War period, it was a good read for me.
The characters were so compelling and their relationships were filled with drama including a lot of passion, revenge, friendship and a connection to each other, to the land and to their way of living.
The story showed life in the South - both the good and the bad of it during these years.
In the vein of a Gone with the Wind type of read, this book continues the story of the South on a random plantation in northern Georgia with life on the cusp of drastic change.
(The Chicago Tribune raved that this was "Gone with the Wind....with sex!" ha) It is indeed a saga about the Georgia plantation Beulah Land and it's owners and slaves.
There are, of course a myriad of family members, slaves, and folks from the adjoining plantations.The years roll by and the book covers all the way to 1861, so around three generations worth of marriage, betrayal, children, etc, all things saga-related.I'm only able to give it 3.5 stars because it just couldn't sustain my interest all that much.
Beulah Land is the only book I remember being forbidden to read as a teenager. I finally read it in my early thirties and thought it poorly written and trashy. Don’t you hate when your parents are right, lol?!
I loved this book. It really painted a great picture of life in the South in the early 1800's. It is not pro Confederacy, but pro Southern good and bad. The characters are brilliant especially the African American ones. I love how the black and white lives mix whether they were meant to or not.
This author dug into the darker side of the south during slavery. Coleman's view of the old south is right on.
Loved the whole trilogy!
The book was readable, but the plot was predictable and riddled with characters who don't evoke any real emotion one way or the other.
This is especially annoying with Leon.
When it came time for his death even that annoyed me about him.
I feel that the author crammed a large cast into one book to make it more interesting, but as a result most characters stories seem only half told or annoyingly underdeveloped.
One review I saw said "Gone with the Wind with sex!".
I don't think this book can be compared at all with Gone with the Wind.
I had red it but ddecades ago and in Dutch.A bookcrossing friend sent me this book.This is what I wrote back then:Thank you so much for fulfilling one of my wishes.This is one of few books that I have read more then once and planning to read more then once :-)I never knew Lonnie Coleman had written a sequel.
2 to be exact so I am trying to get the other 2 books and then I can read all 3 of them.On Thursday, June 14, 2007 I wrote:Well I am finally reading it.:)I managed to order book 3 of the series on Ebay which is traveling to me as we speak (through M-Bag)I am enjoying it.
When I was much younger, I used to think I would rather have lived in the mid-19th century.
I know now that my perception of that time was mere fantasy, and knowing what I know now, I don't think I would choose that time, certainly not in the South!
This is a great epic story of life on a Georgia plantation from 1820 to 1861.
A great book leading to the second in the trilogy.....I can't wait to read it!
A 5, no surprise here about the area of writing .
pre civil war up to war, south, slaves, slave owners,,, etc.
Well written , every page interesting.
One very long soap opera with many surprises both happy and sad.
A wonderful way to pass the time but I do not remember one damn thing about it.
Again a very pleasant way to pass a couple of days reading.
We do not have to remember every living day of our lives.
This type of fiction is usually written by females. The male perspective changed some of the scenes, I thought. It was pretty well researched and was full of interesting details about life in the South on a large plantation. Of course, most of Southern life was not spent on a large plantation. The hardback was 536 pages and it could have been edited down quite a bit. The black characters were developed very well and there was enough drama to hold your interest even though it wasn't really a "page turner."
I re-read this book for the first time in nearly 30 years as I was given copies of the sequels. What an amazing story.Beulah Land concerns the Kendrick, Elk and Davis families in Georgia during the early 19th C. through the beginning of the Civil War. Touching on issues of slavery, miscegenation, states' rights and more, Lonnie Coleman draws a story of a family in conflict as well as in good times.His characters ring true, with flaws and strengths alike. Highly recommended for those who enjoy quality historical fiction.
My mom read this 40 years ago but I never got around to it. After she passed and I inherited her books, I finally decided to read what was one of her favorites. I loved the book, though I wished more of the characters had gotten their acts together. A huge question though....what does the ending mean? I was disappointed in the last page. Is it only to get you to read the next one? Anyone else have a thought on that?
I love old-fashioned historical novels, and somehow I missed this one, the first of a trilogy, set prior on a plantation prior to the Civil War, and written in the 1950s. It's a family saga with wonderful characters and complex relationships. I'm reading the second in the trilogy currently.
This book gets 3.5 stars for content, style and history. I also gave it an additional 1.5 stars for being one of the first "adult" novels I ever read. Fond memories never die...like decent literature.
Gone with the Wind lovers (like me) will have to love this book as I did. They made it a movie too. Wonderful book and if you read it then you will of course want the second book behind it!!
For one, the portrayal of the relationships between black and white people--slaves and plantation owners--is absolutely 100% offensive.
Also, all the white characters in the novel take such a moral high road that they, plantation owners in the mid-1800s Deep South, don't believe slavery is moral.
But they take issue if anyone thinks slavery, especially the most unsavoury parts of it like beatings, has merit.
As if this wasn't ludicrous enough, the only main character who believes slavery is morally correct and beats the slaves/carries out any evil acts is 100% black.
pretty good...but the ending?? Is there a sequel?Yes, just found out , this is a trilogy...Now I am anxious to read it!!!I enjoyed it ...
Read back in the 70s
This story covers about 60 years (1800-1861) through the generations of the black slaves and white masters of the plantation Beulah Land.
The story itself was interesting, but the writing was clunky in some parts and could have been polished/edited better.The story goes in several installments, named after the time they were set in (1800, 1853, 1828, etc) and many characters get voices in the story - white and black people, along with mixed-breeds like Roman.
If the author had been more careful with some parts and writing, this story could have been truly memorable.
Nonetheless, it was still a fairly enjoyable read.
Nice story but nothing to really grab me.
My sister adored the series which is why I'm reading them, too.
-- She's lent me her copies.
The characterizations just aren't in depth enough, I guess.
Also, the portrayal of the slaves just doesn't ring completely true.
To give an idea, Coleman often refers to them as "servants" even though they are clearly slaves.
That said, the characters often free slaves closest to them.
I'm not quite sure what to make of the books.
I'll have to read all 3 before making a decision.
But they are readable enough that I will continue with them.
I read this book when I was in grade school back in the late 70's. I was full on into a Civil War obsession, so I read everything with a Civil War theme. I remember loving this book for a lot of reasons so recently, decades later, I reread it. Funny how tastes change. I was not nearly as engaged by the characters, and found the more salacious parts to be less about the story and more about shock value. I was less than enthused with the rereading.
Beulah Land is a bit tough for me to review. I love historical fiction, and there were parts of this book that I really enjoyed. There were also parts I hated. I did not feel a strong connection to many of the characters, except for a few of the slaves. I don't know that I will bother with the other books in the series. It was probably a 3.5 star read for me, but I rounded it up to 4 stars because of the scope of the work.
I read - more like ate!- through this whole series as a teenager, and loved them, probably a very politically incorrect thing to do (being a product of a less enlightened time). I dare say, at the risk of committing heresy, I loved them better than Gone with the Wind. Gasp!
I really enjoy reading books about this timeframe -- reminded me a lot of Gone with the Wind type books. This one has a lot of strong women throughout the book but is also filled with a lot of sexual incidents that I was not expecting. Overall it was a good book.
Couldn't put it down.
Have had the bood for years just rereading.
I don't remember when I read this book. It was a book that I had a hard time putting down. This is a book that I would reread.
