https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5038.The_Pillars_of_Creation
But these new characters are not nearly as interesting.
For one, I understand how it is Richard can have a bunch of siblings he doesn't know about, but that doesn't make this an interesting plot point.
Additionally, here begins the author's slow descent, wherein he devolves from a well crafted tale based on interesting philosophical ideals worth starting a conversation over, to blatant preaching.
The characters reactions to Richard's ideas are less and less believable, and his espousing of them is more annoying, as he keeps repeating the same ideas over and over, while others are simply dazzled by his wisdom.
I hated it the first time, because we came off of Faith of the Fallen, easily the best book in the series, with some pretty huge things happening in the story.
Jensen says, or thinks about, what people think her red hair means like 80 fucking times in the first half of the book.
I mean, what the hell editor looked at this mess and said "Perfect, let's publish it!" I get that Goodkind's ego is a storied thing of eald, but good god, man, grow a pair and do your damn job!!!I actually miss Soul of the Fire and Temple of the Winds now.
He takes it to such an extreme that even Robert Jordan would feel uncomfortable exploiting the written form with so vividly contrived side plots and wickedly inane and forgettable characters deftly extracted from the colon.The rating also reflects how I was once young and naive and believed in unsigned integers.Anyway ...Richard Rahl isn't in this book.But Jennsen is.
I should thank Terry Goodkind (and a few other brave souls) for weaning me off my filthy habit.Le song:Oba, Oba, he's the man,Oba, Oba, loves his pan,Oba, Jennsen, Richard Rahl,Kahlan, Keeper, mighty brawl,Sebastian, Sebastian, a new friend,Bullshit, rehash, the end.Igor
The pulpit speeches are absent, the action is strong, and we have a new interesting main character introduced, along with a few minor ones such as Tom. Plus a very interesting practical reason behind Darken Rahl's practice of killing all of his ungifted children comes to light.
Some people have complained that Richard and Kahlan aren't main characters in this book, and if you think that, you aren't paying attention.
First, it shows how the people who haven't met Richard but have reason to fear Darken Rahl (which would be everyone not evil) wouldn't automatically think Richard was good, in fact they would think he was just as bad, if not worse, since he killed his own father.
1.5 stars. I can sense the end of my relationship with Goodkind coming with this phenomenal let down. Easily the worst of the Sword of Truth series. Only interesting aspect is the introduction of the concept of the "holes in the world."
By the end of this book I wanted to strangle Jennsen and her goat.
Isn't this series about Richard and Kahlan?
Not in this book, which isn't just an outlier in this series, it feels like filler.
Some think the series had jumped the shark with the fifth book--or the sixth.
Whatever their flaws I still found the books up to this one enjoyable and their doorstopper length wasn't felt by me.
Well, Jennsen really isn't enough to hold me for 736 pages.
This book gets one star.
That's how much a fall off I felt in the quality of this book.
The series covers many aspects of the dark side of humanity, in great detail, as the heroes try to overcome the evils in the world.
Goodkind is not afraid to show his readers just what evil *really* is, that is, most often, people who perform acts of evil feel justified in their minds as to why they are doing so, if for illogical reasons, and will that those that oppose them are the evil ones.
Goodkind shows his readers that the only way to overcome evil in ourselves and in the world is through use of Reason.
While for the bulk of this book I found it a constant struggle to care about the main characters, as always, it finished strong and picked up eventually.This book was a test in agitation and tolerance for me.
I found her infuriatingly ignorant, and while that was a constant annoyance, I recognize the importance of her being that kind of character.
I could never attribute that as a fault to Goodkind; he wrote this book as skillfully as ever - he is just really good at creating characters.
Jennsen was unbearable in her ignorance and obstinate nature, but she was created believably and consistently.
This book is sort of a departure from the main storyline of the Sword of Truth series.
It follows Richard's sister, Jensen, as she attempts to assassinate her brother, who she believes killed her mother and is now trying to kill her.This book is very interesting, because it only has Richard in it for about 25 pages, the rest is about Jensen and the people she meets on her journey.
This is a cool way to introduce a new character to a large series and give them enough time in the spotlight so that the reader can get to know them.This book is a solid addition to the series.
In fact, it ends up adding a new character for future books.I love the psychological aspect of it all, after the last book which included the political aspect.
And, Terry Goodkind makes politics, philosophy and psychology easy for any reader to understand, if only they would think more deeply while reading this series.
The only thing I have noticed about Terry Goodkind;s writing style is that he tends to repeat events and thoughts that were from earlier in the same book.
I could understand repeating reasonings and explaining certain things for someone picking up the series midway.
The suffering makes the ending that much more exquisite, but I can't tolerate an entire book of it.
I can see wanting to get a different perspective, but not the entire book...not for me anyway.
I stopped reading after the first chapter with Oba and decided to check out what I was in for by looking it up on Wiki.
That's when I decided not to read any more in the series.He really started to lose me in Faith of the Fallen when he started to really go off on this Objectivist philosophy of reason vs faith--reason good, faith bad--and you can't have both.
Originally this series was a complex and interesting collection of literature. I think the author needs to stop spending his newfound wealth on crack. This was one of the WORST books I have ever read. I cant help but feel like he was stealing lines from other authors such as Robert Jordan and George Martin.
For some reason, Goodkind felt that it was necessary to introduce a completely new character: Richard's half-sister Jensen.
Really, Goodkind introduces a superfluous character and then writes an entire flipping book about her.If you read this book, you'll be treated to very long and pointless journey by a completely pointless character.
The entire book is just a set-up for Richard to swoop in in the last few chapters to deliver preachy, moralizing lectures to show Jensen the error of her ways while also beating on those evil fundamentalist commies in the Imperial Order.This book does set up the next novel, but that novel proves equally pointless in the grand scheme of the plot.
Pillars of creation was probably the most different of Goodkind's books that I've read.
The Wizard Rule posited in this book is "Life is the Future, not the Past."Works pretty well with the theme of this book I suppose, considering that Goodkind puts away Ubermensch Richard Rahl and UberWife Kahlen Amnell and instead focuses his pen around the relatively unremarkable, yet spunky young lass Jennsen Dagget.
We see Richard and Kahlen for approximately 40 pages in this book.
This is pretty cool - because for once he doesn't spend every other paragraph re-explaining to us the backstory of the seven other books that came before it.
You definitely could not read this book and get everything out of it if you hadn't read a few of the others preceeding it, so you had a feel of what was going on with the Order and Richard.
I did find myself greedily awaiting appearances from Richard and Kahlan, because those two characters are the kind one can read about forever and identify with...
This is a book that will make you think and wonder and probably leave you more confused than you were at the beginning, and wanting to write a review about just how much you disliked it.
Though there were a few moments that I wished I could read about my all time favorite characters, these all new characters did not disappoint at all.
The villain is such a fun, Koontz-like read.
The plight of the main character is even better, because she is ignorant of her circumstances.
Can she reconcile this with truth in the end?
It was nice having the old characters make their appearances and get judged, especially if wrongly.
I was hoping the ending would have just a little more explanation for the benefit of certain new characters, but it worked just fine.
Tenhle díl poukázal na to, jak je důležité učit se stále novým věcem (i když jste třeba vyšinutý šílenec posedlý svou vlastní důležitostí nebo jen ztracená osoba, která je přesvědčena o své vlastní bezvýznamnosti).Jelikož nebyl tehle díl psaný z pohledu Richarda, konečně jsem měla možnost zjistit, jak ho ostatní vlastně vidí a vnímají. Což mi umožnilo významný pohled na jeho jedinečnou osobnost.Nějdůležitější věcí, která se v této knize objevila (kromě dalšího z vždy přítomných čarodějových pravidel) je, že každý musíme k poznání dojít sám. Jak jinak by pro nás přece takové poznání mohlo získat větší váhu?
Za malo pa cetvorka. Ovaj covek zna da pise ali u neki delovima se toliko ponavlja i razlaci da je to cudo. A najgluplja stvar u knjizi je jedna koza. Dokle bre vise sa tom kozom ajde. Inace svidja mi se ova postavka knjige koja mesa dobro i zlo da se ne zna ko je i sta je ko do kraja knjige mada se od sredine vec pomalo naslucuje ko bi tu mogao ko da bude
"Il passato può insegnare attraverso l'esperienza come fare le cose in futuro, portarci conforto con i bei ricordi ed insegnarci le fondamenta di quanto è stato già fatto.
Ma solo il futuro è la vita.
Vivere nel passato vuol dire abbracciare ciò che è morto.
Vivere la vita a pieno ogni giorno significa creare qualcosa di nuovo ogni giorno.
E come se ciò non bastasse, ogni volume è peggio degli altri...
mostly not even about The main character, but, it’s nice, and it’s a preparation for book 8
That would be with Richard and Kahlan in the Old World.Instead I found myself with a girl named Jennsen, and later on with a brute called Oba, about whom the previous books didn't breathe a word and who, if I may be honest, didn't interest me one bit (in the beginning at least).
I didn't give a damn about Jennsen and Oba at the beginning of the book, but nonetheless I was cheering and shouting for Jennsen to make the correct choice at the end of it all.Nevertheless, I would have liked to have read more about Richard and Kahlan.
But somehow Goodkind always manages to drag me back into Richard and Kahlan's world.
Unlike the first six books of the series, Terry Goodkind decides to drift away from the perspective of major characters to instead focus on completely new characters that he has dreamed up.
So, to make it abundantly clear, if you have your heart strings completely wrapped around Richard and Kahlan's decisions, then you are not going to like this book.
Jennsen and Oba, having never dealt directly with anything that has happened in the course of the series, provide a completely naive perspective on Richard, Kahlan, and their cause against the Imperial Order.
L’unico senso di questo settimo libro è quello di portare in scena una nuova categoria di persone -i buchi nel mondo, gente totalmente priva del Dono e che funge in qualche modo da bilanciamento nei confronti dei Lord Rahl- e introdurre Jennsen, sorellastra di Richard.Per introdurre buchi e sorella, si sprecano più di 500 pagine imbastendo una storia assurda riguardo alla quale la verità era ovvia fin dalle prime pagine.
Anche più della compaesana di Richard che cerca di sposarselo nel volume del Tempio dei Venti.Direi senza timore di smentita che questo è il punto più basso della saga, finora.
I won't pretend like I wasn't itching to finally reach a Kahlan/Richard/Cara scene (and hadn't flicked through the book to make sure they were in it), but this book wasn't nearly as terrible as it could've been.Liking it really hinges on liking Jennsen.
The people of Altur'Rang had a distorted version of truth, but very few had reason.In a way, this book was Terry Goodkind shaking the reader, going "HAVE YOU REASON?!" Everything is written subjectively, either from Jennsen's naive innocent POV or from Oba's narcissistic, psychopath POV; the reader knows the truth and TG's guiding where it gets applied.SRSness aside, GO ZEDDD!
LOLOL@Cara poking Jennsen with her Agiel.
The Sword of Truth book 7 takes a departure from the other books as the main characters are a unknown step sister and step brother of Richard Rahl.For me the most fascinating aspect of this book was that the characters were making logical decisions based on what they knew.
My only complaint was that the ending felt a bit rushed with the final climatic confrontation taking up only 40 or so pages.If you are a Sword of Truth fan then you will probably read this book.
Several people have expressed an opinion that this was their least favorite of the Sword of Truth series.
I enjoyed this book the least out of the Sword of Truth/Chainfire series, I couldn't wait to be done with it in order to get to the rest of the story.
I also felt at times even the individual paths of the characters were extremely slow to develop while the ending was extremely abrupt and even in the realm of fantasy felt forced and unrealistic compared to the rest of the books.
I have finished the series and really do appreciate Jennsen being in the stories but she could have been introduced without some of the other characters.
Many people who read this were annoyed that Richard, Kahlan, and the other major characters from previous volumes do not feature prominently (at least not "on-screen") in this one, which isn't so much a weakness of this book as evidence of the strength of those characters and their portrayal in books 1 through 6.Jenssen was an interesting and likable character (although admittedly irritating at times), and it was kind of fun to see the world through the enemy's perspective.
Oba, the other main character in this book, was less interesting and definitely not likable (by design).I enjoyed this book more than I expected to.
The book introduces new characters which was interesting and the "enemy" ideas are presented in a way that you could almost sympathize.
But Goodkind seems to wander around a bit with the "facts of previous books" (Jagang the dreamwalker who knows all - should have known about what was happening in the old world) and Richard using his magic to destroy a thousand men???!!
Why can't he then use it to destroy Jagangs entire army?
I anxiously read each book up to this point because I enjoyed the characters and even though there was way too much preaching kept reading - now I do not think I will go to the next book they seem to be loosing their continuity.
This one is not quite as good as the rest.
I really think the author should have stayed with Richard.
Nice to know what other people think of Richard.
You can see how blind Jennsen really is.
Jennsen is a nice girl.
The journey she goes through is very intense.
She suffers a lot.
Her mother dies.
Sebastian befriends her who really isn't her friend.
He tells her half-truths.Obo is very frightening.
He kills everybody he runs into.
He has some big fantasies that won't happen like becoming king.Richard and Kahlan don't come into the book until the very end.
It took me longer to read this one because there was NO RICHARD & KAHLAN & CARA until the last parts of the book.
Two new characters, Jennsen and Oba were introduced, and I can't say I liked them, even a little bit.
(Minor spoiler) * It was interesting to read everything from the enemy's point of view but still - I truly hate the Imperial Order and Jagang.
I wished he died in this book.
Oh and the part when the Order tried to attack Confessors' Palace but failed: That battle was INCREDIBLE!
Loved it.
*Finally, again: I LOVE YOU CARA.
