https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4665.The_Best_Early_Stories_of_F_Scott_Fitzgerald
The first story in the collection, "Benediction," was my least favorite - the motivations of the characters were a little too opaque.
"Bernice Bobs Her Hair" was also very funny and a wonderful character study.I didn't particularly enjoy "Winter Dreams," but it was interesting to read the story as a sort of proto-Gatsby tale.
Also, "The Ice Palace" should be required reading for anyone who wants to move to the Upper Midwest - Fitzgerald knew his people very well!Overall a very strong short story collection.
If you've read The Great Gatsby, don't bother reading these stories, as you'll find the same theme in all of them. Fitzgerald was in his twenties when he wrote most of them and they're all concerned with the feelings of inadequacy young people feel when they start becoming seriously interested in the opposite sex - particularly when they feel they've had fewer advantages than others and don't quite measure up. Many of us go through that, but I wonder how many would want to read about it over and over and over.
Methinks the Fitzgeralds (Yes--Zelda too, as indicated in an essay she contributes toward the end of this book) are overdoing this focus on the flapper as a curiosity unique to that particular era (to be replaced by the vapid Valley Girl of today?).
Anyhow, as with Flappers and Philosophers, two stories stand out here: the hilarious Head and Shoulders, and Bernice Bobs Her Hair (I applaud the ending--brava, Bernice!).
And dated as the plot may be by today's standards, Benediction stands out for its disturbing end--we WANT to know if Lois kept her tryst with her lover!
En realidad me refiero a "Cuentos rebeldes" pero no lo encontré en Goodreads (quizás esté en inglés) por lo tanto anoto mi reseña en este que me parece el más similar. Personajes a cual más superficial pero que llegan a caer bien. No había leído nada de Fitzgerald y no me disgustó para nada a pesar de que los relatos cortos no me atraen.
I haven't actually read that much Fitzgerald (yet), but a thought that occurred to me--one that I haven't subjected to much analysis but that I'll mention anyway--is that Hemingway and Fitzgerald are sort of a Lennon and McCartney for their era.
In the end I like some McCartney, but prefer Lennon.
Maybe.Benediction: UnimpressedHead and Shoulders: Better, but the ending almost feels like bathos to me.
The very end feels a little too obvious for me, but there are some good bits here.The Jelly-Bean: I like when Fitzgerald writes about place.
Scott Fitzgerald's short story (or novella) "May Day," published by Art of the Novella, which makes beautiful graphically designed books.
away from finishing."May Day" was unlike other Fitzgerald I'd read.
The novella I had included a single quote on the back: "All crowds need to howl." What a great line...I've read a couple places that Scott took credit for a few short stories that Zelda wrote.
It just so happened I read that while I was reading this and it made me wonder (since the language seemed so different) but who cares who wrote it?
It reminded me of a Roald Dahl's story because of the wonderful imagery and imagination.
It's interesting to note that this story only sold for $400 while others which were not nearly as good sold for much more.
the story's main theme is how much wealth corrupts - even to the point of murder.
His use of language is superb: "The Montana sunset lay between two mountains like a gigantic bruise from which dark arteries spread themselves over a poisoned sky."beautiful.
reading Fitzgerald for me is like listening to a concert pianist play Chopin.
This book was my first experience reading anything non-Gatsby written by Fitzgerald, and the charm of it came from locating the touchstones of Gatsby before it became Gatsby.
For example, in the penultimate story of the work, "Winter Dreams," Fitzgerald lifts whole quotations from his own text and recycles them into Gatsby when describing Daisy's house in Chapter 8.
Since the only person who taught me Gatsby was Mr. Anstett in 10-Honors in 1993, I think the Independent Study must beat on, and the more non-Gatsby I read, the more luminous and unique Gatsby becomes.
I love the way Fitzgerald both develops and explores human connections and relationships.
I appreciate that his best work seems to driven more by character development than by plot development.
While he can sometimes be pretentious and while some language and societal aspects are antiquated, it is his philiosophy on life and how he interprets the opposite sex that are most fascinating.Most of his female characters within the short stories are decidedly selfish and unlikeable.
However, his talent is so great that the reader is still compelled to care for these women and have an honest desire to follow their stories to the conclusion.While nothing will ever compare to The Great Gatsby, Fitzgerald's other writings are just as illuminating and entertaining.
Deep into this book in the middle of a rainy summer night, and just found the best sentence yet: "...it is well known among ladies over thirty-five that when the younger set dance in the summer-time it is with the very worst intentions in the world, and if they are not bombarded with stony eyes stray couples will dance weird barbaric interludes in the corners, and the more popular, more dangerous girls will sometimes be kissed in the parked limousines of unsuspecting dowagers."
His stories take me back to a much different place and time when men courted woman with marriage being the ideal. I like the language, the motion of the characters, the spunk of the women; they have something to say and are willing to take risks.His stories make me look up the time period to have a better understanding of life and the language flappers used.And the hair, oh the hair, from when it was long, to chop, chop, now it is gone. Such rebels these girls were...
I will quote James Gould Cozzens here on F. Scott Fitzgerald gift for writing:" a talent for saying not merely the right, the apt, the vivid, or moving thing, but the thing which, having all those qualities, so far transcends your reasonable expectation that you see that it couldn't have been done merely by intelligence, or training, or hard trying, and must simply have been born in a sort of triumphant flash outside the ordinary process of thought".
This collection of short stories provides an excellent look into Fitzgerald's talents prior to the publication of Gatsby, which he's best known for. They range from the slightly fantastical Diamond As Big As the Ritz, to the defiant Bernice Bobs Her Hair.Looking forward to reading more of his work!
I didn't know Fitzgerald wrote such fantastic short stories; I've only ever read The Great Gatsby. I can't believe we didn't study these in my Short Narrative courses in college! He writes such vivid characters and in such phenomenal visual detail. The plots can be thin or unlikely, but it doesn't even matter because the writing is so good.
I really liked these stories. Some of my favorites were The Offshore Pirate, Head and Shoulders, and The Ice Palace. The only time it got a little dry is when I read more than one story in a day. Otherwise, I really enjoyed this particular selection of stories.
"There go fifty thousand dollars worth of slaves," cried Kismine, "at prewar prices. So few Americans have any respect for property.""I want to advise you--about raps. Don't answer them! Let them alone--have a padded door!"
Already read:Benediction--Head and Shoulders--Bernice Bobs Her Hair--The Ice Palace--The Offshore Pirate--May Day--The Jelly Bean--The Diamond as Big as the Ritz--Winter Dreams--Absolution--
My mother sent me this book for my 29th Birthday in May, the joke being that he was the great poet of the 20's and I was on my way out -- she also slipped ten $20 bills between the pages of the book, one for each year spent as a twentysomething -- which, really, is the peeerfect gift.
Really enjoying it!
My favorite short stories from this book is The Offshore Pirate. I actually read it back in 2006 and it is the reason I read the rest of the short stories.
bv
Loved this collection for one story: The Offshore Pirate. Why didn't this story get more attention? It is completely fantastical in its whimsy. Loved it.
Some really great stories here - The Diamond as Big as the Ritz, The Ice House, some not so great but overall a very enjoyable read
There were actually quite a few I had to skip, however I really liked one of the short stories (of course the title escapes me.. guess it wasn't that memorable)
