https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/854296.The_Clue_of_the_New_Pin
Mais um policial impecável e cheio de suspense dos vampiros gigantes.Desta feita, o autor é que origem Inglesa, apesar de se passar na América.
A neat little locked-room mystery, let down from a fourth star by racist caricatures and shameless orientalism (though there are some attempts to subvert it in the second half).
One of the worst loveless written crime books ever. Unbelievable its a classic *sigh*You can tell right from the very beginnig on who the murderer were. Because there is only one character with the motive. Thats why you get really annoyed by the characters illogical speculations who the murderer could be (Oh, come on, how on earth could someone be suspected to be the unknown, black dressed murderer, if he (and other witnesses) are in the same time in the same room with the murderer? ).Its the se
).It´s the second book I already read by this author and it´s already the second time he´s repeating himself - there is again this foreign man, who figures out to be the young ladies mysterious (dead thought) father, who dies again right before the "happy" reunion.
If you would read an Agatha Christie´s book and there would be large, blinking arrows above the murderers heads, it still would be more dificult to find out who the murderer were, than by this author.
I am currently rejoicing in Project Gutenberg & other free ebook sites, which are allowing me to read some of the classics of early mystery novels.
Wallace was hugely successful in his time (he was born in 1875) and set the standard for the thriller mystery format.
The attitudes which make me cringe are all from characters you are not supposed to like, making me think Wallace was fairly liberal for his time.
This particular book has a clever locked-room element.
If you'd like to read clever stories, many now +100 years old, I can recommend Edgar Wallace.
Giallo inglese vecchia scuola (anni '20) con il classico rompicapo del cadavere trovato in una stanza chiusa dall'interno e senza finestre.Fumo di Londra misto a pennellate esotiche per via dei fitti rapporti che il morto (ricchissimo e anziano uomo d'affari) intratteneva con la comunità cinese.4 stelline perché mi piace il genere.
Edgar Wallace was the Erle Stanley Garner of his time (early 1900s). The guy churned out books at an amazing rate. Equally amazing is that although some of them are better than others, none of them that I have read so far are stinkers. This was no exception. Not great literature, but a fine and dandy way to relax after a heavier read.
If you only read one by Edgar Wallace, read this one. The main female character is strong and resourceful, the main male character loves and respects her for it, the aspiring executive is skewered, the Chinese characters are excellent human beings, and there's lots of humor.
A murder is discovered in a locked vault, with no possible way for the murderer to have escaped, no weapon, and a pin such as was used to keep papers together is the only clue to the murder of a very unpleasant old miser.
Solito scorrevole giallo avventuroso, con strani personaggi esotici e straordinari. Finale scontato e troppo semplice da intuire fin quasi dall'inizio.<br />Lettura estiva.
Il classico giallo di inizio novecento con un crimine commesso in una stanza chiusa dall' interno. Molto old style.
Un bel giallo coinvolgente, scritto e congegnato perfettamente - difficile fare meglio con un noir.
