https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40776248-the-mother
BuckThe Mother is a novel by Pearl S.
Within this novel Ms. Buck paints the portrait of a poor woman living in a remote village whose joys are few and hardships are many.
...تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سال 1977 میلادیعنوان: مادر؛ نویسنده: پرل باک؛ مترجم: محمد قاصی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، امیرکبیر، کتابهای جیبی، 1363، در 341 ص؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان - سده 20 مداستان زندگی خانواده ای روستایی در چین است.
داستان زندگی یک زن دهقان، بی نام و نشان، در چین پیش از انقلاب را روایت میکند.
این رمان، داستانی فراموش نشدنی، درباره ی تواناییهای یک زن، و نقش فراموش ناشدنی مادرها، در زندگی فرزندان است.
So I was wondering what time period this takes place in when I got to the end.
I also wish that Buck had tied up the loose end of the husband a bit better.
"The Mother" has an unnamed woman (Mother) is left reeling when her husband (too pretty and too ready to have a good time) abandons her, their three children (two sons and a daughter) and his mother.
The story ends with the Mother being given some hope.
Though I wonder if her life ends up the same way as her mother in law's did.
قراءة أولى لا بأس للمؤلفة "النوبلية"رواية عادية جدا ربما تحدث في أي مكان في دول العالم الثالث مع بعض التغييراتوصفت كفاح الأم ومعاناتها بطريقة درامية لكننى لم أتأثر كثيرا
Uma obra extraordinária. Uma verdadeira ode à Mulher em todas as suas vertentes, mas com especial destaque para a qualidade de mãe. Recomendo muito!
The Mother (never named) is a strong and capable woman.
She works in the fields to provide for her family, while taking care of home, children and mother-in-law alone.
Throughout she enjoys her children as they grow.
Behind the story of a peasant woman in the country, is the changing China.
The Mother moves from young generation to the elder generation.Basically, this is a story of a life.
Pearl Buck has a simple way of telling a story that lets depth seep through the simplicity of her words.
She loved & knew China and told the stories of its peasant people, the backbone of the country.
(view spoiler)[A poor peasant woman with 2 young children (and another on the way) is forced to fend for herself when her husband abandons them.
Her focus is on day-to-day survival, sacrificing for her children, and hiding her husband’s behavior from her neighbors in order to save face.
Her children grow up and she becomes the older generation.
(hide spoiler)]The daughter of Presbyterian missionaries, Pearl Buck spent many years in China and used her experiences to write simply and movingly about peasant life, Chinese tradition, and changes brought about by the communist revolution.
Masterpiece.
However, it ends on a note of hope, as the family cycle is continued and the Chinese peasant's conception of fulfillment is granted.Buck writes this novel in a lilting, poetic yet simple language, straight from the mind of the peasant, so that no idea of the characters is analyzed from a Western or modernized perspective.
The subtle way in which Buck depicts the natural process of time – the attitude of the heroine as a young mother, then as a mother-in-law, and then as an old, bitter woman – is masterful.
It is a real and yet idealistic picture of the Chinese peasant family, very well crafted and resonant, written without judgment of traditions.
La prossima volta vi mando mia mammaTroppi libri in casa mia.Lo dice mia mamma che è stufa di vedersene attorno così tanti, lo dice mio padre che quando cerca un libro non sa da dove iniziare a guardare per trovarlo, lo dico io che vado a sbattere contro le pile che partono da terra in camera mia.In effetti, è anche comprensibile: sommando gli 82 anni di un vorace lettore, per di più appassionato di storia, agli 84 di una vorace lettrice, per di più insegnante per quasi cinquant’anni, e aggiungendo i miei 35 di vorace lettrice per osmosi, il calcolo dei libri presenti in casa, anche volendo andare al ribasso, dà un numero notevole.
Cảm động, dù Pearl Buck không hề có ý định đề cao tình mẫu tử. Chỉ là một câu chuyện về một kiếp người, trong một xã hội mà người phụ nữ chịu quá nhiều thiệt thòi. Pearl Buck đặc biệt hiểu văn hóa Trung Hoa, thậm chí hiểu cả cái cách người ta dèm pha, cái cách những người dân quê hay buôn chuyện, cái cách người ta sợ tiếng xấu hơn là tự đi tìm hạnh phúc, điều này cũng không khác Việt Nam là mấy.
Thus far I have steered clear of novels, but I’m going to make an exception with Pearl S Buck’s The Mother because it is a thoroughly captivating book which has convinced me I need to read everything that this author has ever written.
But The Good Earth turned out to be a beautiful book, and so I looked around for more works by this author.
Another remarkable feature of the writing is the way the author reveals the inner life of the Mother.
This book came out after “The Good Earth” and follows the life of a passionate Chinese peasant mother.
Pearl Buck wrote this novel soon after “The Good Earth” but she did not think it was good.
She considered tossing it; there are those who think this was because the story “veered perilously close to a personal confession, an unguarded glimpse into the secrets of her sexual and maternal frustration” (Conn 166).
Buck: A Cultural Biography” when he says that “the novel is a sustained portrait of loneliness, sexual frustration, and despair”(167).
This is a passionate story that travels inside the heart of a woman and mother.
Amara, tristissima attesa! Mi sono imbattuta quasi per caso in questo romanzo, ma ho potuto gustare una buona lettura. Il racconto procede con un ritmo pacato e una scrittura scarna; senza giri di parole né ampollosità; assolutamente privo di retorica; con una semplicità che tuttavia continua ad alimentare l’interesse, adattandosi perfettamente alla onesta essenzialità delle esistenze. Una storia di miserie familiari, di persone prive perfino di un nome e di una tomba sulla quale piangere, in u
Il racconto procede con un ritmo pacato e una scrittura scarna; senza giri di parole né ampollosità; assolutamente privo di retorica; con una semplicità che tuttavia continua ad alimentare l’interesse, adattandosi perfettamente alla onesta essenzialità delle esistenze.
Una storia di miserie familiari, di persone prive perfino di un nome e di una tomba sulla quale piangere, in un fazzoletto di terra isolato e dimenticato della Cina.
Una storia di composte rassegnazioni ai margini di giovani ribellioni.
Esto último se logra de manera tan brillante revela aspectos íntimos en el alma de la mujer que un varón jamás hubiera podido imaginar (en ese sentido el capitulo VIII resulta crucial).La clave de nuestra historia es el concepto de karma y pecado; esa idea perniciosa de que las fallas morales de una persona pueden decidir su suerte y marcar a su descencencia para siempre.
Ese karma nubla la conciencia de “la madre”, pues ni los dioses, ni las autoridades, ni el orden social le ofrecen posibilidad alguna de redención.Se trata de una novela con estructura muy sencilla que consta de veinte capítulos de extensión más o menos regular.
لقد أحسست بكل مأساة تعرضت لها هذه الأم والتي تتحلى بكل صفات الأمومة. أولا زوجها وابنتها الكفيفه و ف الأخير ابنها الأصغر وكمية الانتظار والصبر لديها.رواية رائعة تذكرنا دائما و ابدأ ب أهمية الأم. شكرا بيرل باك.
Baš u stilu Pearl Buck. Život se vrti u krug, danas djevojčica i kćerka, sutra odrasla žena, majka i supruga, zatim starica i baka, i ono što nam danas izgleda daleko, ustvari je jako blizu.
On what is a mother ready to do, a great story of ancient times. I recommend this book, you can compare then and now.
The Mother was a book with a writing that was simple, straightforward but yet quite unique.
The husband of this family is a good-for-nothing asshole; who contantly refers to their children as hers and keeps blaming her for the pregnancies that come spring after spring.
Sounds like a good parent to me...
Leaving the husband aside, I have to say I liked it.
I would like to have a better ending; a more happy one for the mother, who in my eyes, changed so much towards it.
I tried very hard to keep my personal opinion on various matter aside and therefor enjoyed it more than I would have if I didn't.
Un limbaj simplu, dar profund, o viață tipică de la țară, în unul din sătucurile din China .
O mamă dătătoare de viață care-și acceptă condiția și menirea.
O mamă care poate ține loc și de tată, poate face toată muncă pe lângă casă, poate să îndure tristeți și păcate.
O mamă care înafară de a-și lucra pământul, a-și îngriji copiii, și a spera de la o zi la alta că-i revine soțul de mult timp plecat, nu știe să se concentreze pe altceva, decât pe toată orânduirea vieții de la țară.
Dincolo de durere, tristeți și predestinare, finalul cărții e unul optimist.
Ya le tenía ganas a esta mujer y, aunque me ha gustado bastante, me ha parecido que estaba viendo un culebrón chino. La historia está llena de penurias que la pobre protagonista no tiene más remedio que ir salvando, es una mujer fuerte y, quitando que es bastante triste, es un libro precioso, escrito con una narración muy sencilla pero no por ello menos interesante, quizás no me ha llegado tanto porque no estoy en un momento para leer muchas penas pero el libro es bueno y merece ser leído. Lo recomiendo.
Beautifully tragic story of a strong woman, which no one could tell like Pearl Buck.
Lovely prose, descriptions of setting, and development of characters. Masterful, as usual....but such bleak, unrelenting lives.
عاطفة على العجوز إذا انتابها السعال ليلا، فتنهض من مكانها لموافاتها بقليل من الماء..بل عاطفة حتى على الحيوانات إذا تدافعت و أثار بعضها بعضا".والرواية تصف موقفين متناقضين لفلاحَيْن (زوج و زوجة) من أسلوب حياتهما..الزوج الذي يرى حياته مملة ورتيبة، و يرى نفسه مسخرا و مستعبدا فيها لمصلحة غيره، وزوجته التي ترى عكس ذلك، فالحياة متغيرة و مثيرة طالما وُجدت الخصوبة في الإنسان و الأرض، فيطرح كلاهما الجديد من الأطفال و الثمار، وهكذا يصير التغيير سنة مستمرة، فلا يكون هناك مجال للملل."كل ما كان يعنيها من الدنيا هو أن تلمس عاطفة الرجل، وان تحس الحياة تدب وتنمو في أحشائها، و أن تضع وليدا تقدم له ثدييها.
الأحداث تبدو لي غاية في الواقعية للدرجة التي تسقط بها في مستنقع "التسطح و التبسيط الشديد" كثيرا..الرواية تتحدث عن حياة زوجة و كيف تربي أولادها في احدى قرى الصين..و لكن مع ذلك تبدو الأحداث "عالمية" بالشكل الذي يجعلها تنطبق على أي أسرة ريفية في أي مكان في العالم..
شاب يتزوج فتاة..
يعملان في الحقل..
يتزوج الأبناء..
يعملون في الحقل..
كأن الحياة لم و لن يتواجد بها أي شيء جديد!شعرت بالاستفزاز الشديد من شخصية الابن الاشتراكي..
كأن الاشتركي هو الشيطان يمشي على قدمين!و لكن أعتقد انه هذا هو المتوقع من كاتبة امريكية لابد انها كانت تكره "الخطر الأحمر" مثل باقي جنسها ...
This is the story of a Chinese peasant mother living in a remote hamlet in pre- revolutionary communist China.
The mother lives in poverty and desperation believing that the sorrows of her life are the result of her sins.
Her husband leaves her to raise the three children, tend the farm, and care for his old mother.
The mother is deeply shamed by her husband's desertion, so she lies about it.
The ending of the book is triumphant and joyful as the wheel of life turns.
I truly enjoyed this book and the opportunity to look into the Chinese world.
I enjoy her books immensely.

Love this book it an amazing look at a peasants life when the japense attacke. Bucks writing is so good that she actually calls the character The Mother never giving her a name. It really showed how insignificant her life was seen by the other characters. It was also a book that showed how extrodiary and dignified she really was during her life. You feel a saddness because it would be such a hard life without recognition or romantic love.
Adının hakkını vererek, annelik figürünün ön planda tutulduğu bir eser olmuş. İnsan okurken kendi annesinden veya çevresindeki annelerden bir çok şeyi kitaptaki ana figüründe bulabiliyor. Daha önce eser hakkında araştırma yaparken oldukça iç karartıcı olaylar olduğunu okumuştum, evet bu konuda içiniz acıdığı bir çok bölüm görebiliyorsunuz. Bununla birlikte gerek psikolojik analizler gerekse coğrafik analizler olarak oldukça başarılı bulduğumu söyleyebilirim.
Mă rog. Sînt foarte indignată. Din cauza acțiunii cărții, nu din cauza scriiturii. Cît era ea de țărancă, să nu existe o diferentță între iubire și patimă? Să-l fi iubit pe bărbatu-său chiar după ce lua banii de la gura copiilor lor? Cred, totuși, că acolo lipseau niște nuanțe.Dar nu pot ști sigur, că n-am fost fost niciodată în situația cu pricina.
Love this author. Always captivating characters and interesting plot. The style of language isn't for everyone, I find myself reading slower than other books I've read, but it's part of the reason why I enjoyed it. More of her novels in my list to read.
