https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1378813.Elbert_Hubbard_s_Scrap_Book
I have the original 1923 leather covered version of this AMAZING work. It was a gift from my mentor and although I have not finished reading it cover-to-cover, I already LOVE, LOVE,LOVE this book. It is the very essence of what readers like myself do... we collect the "nuggets" of truth that we connect with and put them in a safe place where we can re-visit them from time to time.
I came across an old paper edition of this in a used bookstore in Maine. I loved it and gave it away to a friend. I didn't know it was going to be so hard to find another used copy. Then, when my Aunt Liberty passed away (at the age of 100, born on the Fourth of July in the year 1900), I got a bunch of her books. This was one of them. A leather bound edition. It is somewhat crumbly, but the words are just as uplifting and dear to my soul.
Excellent source for quotes. I had never heard of Elbert Hubbard before finding this book on the discounted rack at Barnes and Noble. Definately a good find! Hubbard was a publisher and craftsman. This book is a compilation of his ventures, favorite exerpts of books, quotes, etc. I believe it is out of print and feel very lucky to have a copy of this in my book collection!
My copy of this book orignally belonged to my grandmother and was passed to me by my mother. I am a third generation lover of Mr. Hubbard's collection of ideas, prose and quotes. This book is a treasure trove and still feels current and relevant, although it was published in 1923. I think it should be a part of every thinking person's library.
Read this and then go to work on making your own "scrap book". Not like what we think of as scrapbooking today, but a file of quotes and short stories and inspirational items that help keep you on track.
This is a book I have had for quite a while. It is a collection of interesting sayings. It is a book that I keep on my night stand and continue to read. Hubbard and hid wife were on the Lusitania when it sank. Rather than be parted they returned to their state room. One of my favorite books.
I can never seem to finish this book, as it is a collection of short essays, poems, letters, etc. Some are very engaging, some not. It is still on my bedstand, and has been for the past 12 months.
What is this fascination with what page I'm on? As if I read all books in some sort of pre-ordained sequential order. Pah!
Wow. Old Books!I really enjoyed this. A collection of quotes and insights from some old traditionalist from the early to mid 1900's.
