https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22886113-a-work-in-progress
I am bit surprised by the huge number of stellar ratings of this memoir, unless they are by young people and fellow youtube fans of the author.
I was mostly annoyed that a young man with a supposedly perfect family and very few obstacles feels that he can give fairly judgmental advice to older people about breaking free of the restraints of perhaps unsatisfying jobs and just be free.
He has the naiveté of youth perhaps, but the ideas presented here were based on cliché.
By the time he claimed to love talking to old people because they are "cute" I was about done.
*4.5 stars*"Who are you? Answer; you are who you are in this given moment. Label-less. Limitless. Remember that from this day forward."This memoir was so genuine and honest, so inspiring and raw, I related to so many things Connor talks about and agreed so hard with so many things he says. Such high respect for Connor Franta, I'm not even a fan of non-fiction usually, but I loved this! Thank you Simon & Schuster for sending me an Advanced Readers Copy for review! Full review to come!
Second, I want to mention that I like Connor and his videos, but I'm definitely not a super fan.
I think it's great for Connor's 14 year-old viewers to read the words he's written and soak up his enthusiasm and wisdom.
Like I mentioned, I'm not a super-fan, so while I wasn't exactly interested in his childhood (don't get me wrong, I still read it, because I'm incredibly nosy) I loved reading about what he think of "fame" and his position on youtube, and even the path his channel(s) took.
Sweet.....Conner Franta is a typical kid ...who is not typical.
Well dress, with white hair, she has a Spitfire personality, and as we sat in the corner, we discussed her life: where she's lived, what memories she treasures, what she's learned.
Throughout the entire conversation, I was fascinated by her story of a life well lived".
"This is something you need to know about me: 11 times out of 10, I would rather talk to an 87-year-old and an 18-year-old.
And if we take the time, pull up a chair, let them talk, and really listen, we can learn a thing or two.
I am not a huge huge fan of Connor's videos, but I do like his personality and his video styles a lot, so I am a subscriber.
I was pretty skeptical when hearing that he was releasing a book - let alone a memoir, since he's only 22, but I pre-ordered, since I'm a huge fan of YouTubers extending to other mediums.
It would probably be a good book for a 14 and under crowd, but anyone older that isn't a huge fan of Connor's could probably save their time and money and read another book.
When I came to this book, I was expecting a fresh and inspiring story about a guy who struggles with his life, but eventually figures it out.Instead I got the same old drill: be yourself, embrace your scars, friends are not about quantity, but quality.Oh my god, Connor, everybody knows that!
Connors story is in no way less important than those of painful coming outs, the struggle is still very much real and painful.
And yes, I know that I would have absolutely loved this book when I was 13, but it doesn`t make it any better.Read this if you are 13 years old.
I assume that you must be interested in his book if you're reading this, and if you are debating whether you should read it, then I suggest you to watch the following video of his.Life Doesn't Wait by Connor FrantaAmong all the hilarious vids, a video like this is the one that really hits me.
And in his debut, it's full of surprises and wise and sensitive words like this.In the 212 pages, you get to know the life stories of Connor.
It's like hearing Connor talks to you, gives you advice and encourages you gently.Besides the words, the pictures inside the book are also fantastic.
is it okay for a person to want to re-read from the beginning just as soon as they have finished it?
NO. Who lets a 20-something write a self help book. This was rather self indulgent exploration in the supposed flawlessness of Franta, endlessly espousing moral values and experience that has developed these. This is so disconnected from reality it honestly hurts. It was weirdly endearing when I wasn't experiencing the extreme desire to burn the book. Also formatting and design for my copy were sweet af. Still doesn't save it.
I think I love Connor.I seriously can't say that I've gone through his struggles while reading A Work in Progress but I did feel for him.
I feel like today I've read such emotional books and I don't know how to wrap my head around them anymore.Whatever Connor says in this book it is so freaking refreshing.
This book just screams "I am Connor hear me roar!" Seriously it's that amazing.
IF you are looking for truth and honesty well..
look no further.
I swear I loved everything about this book.Overall, I hope that this isn't my last book by Connor.
A Work In Progress by Connor Franta was a very interesting memoir!I actually never watched his videos before but after getting to know him through his memoir, I am planning on subscribing to him and catch up with his videos!His memoir was very personal, I felt connected with a lot of things and even if I don't really knew him that much, I felt extremely proud of his work! Connor is such an inspiring guy, and I really think a lot of people should read his book!
I don't read a lot of memoirs but I needed to read something out of my huge book collection in my bedroom to keep me busy on a hot summers evening and A Work In Progress did just that. Connor is such an honest, down to earth person and with every chapter throughout the book, I could even hear his voice as if he was reading his own thoughts to me. I love his photography throughout also. A great introduction to Connor Franta and his videos. Highly recommend read.
I picked this up on a whim at my local supermarket to make up a 2 for £7 deal having been attracted by the cover and having briefly checked the Goodreads reviews, which are overwhelmingly positive.
I'm definitely not the target audience for this book or his other work, so shouldn't really be too harsh, but I suppose I should've had a bit more sense than to purchase a book written by a 22 year old dealing with his life experience.Unless you're 22 yourself, don't bother.
Some memoirs of the experience of one's early years are outstanding, but unfortunately this isn't one or them-Jim Carroll he ain't.
This book is filled with advice, clippings of old schoolwork, pictures, and personal stories that will “provoke laughter, tears, and everything in between”.If you follow Connor Franta on YouTube or Twitter, you are already aware of how he is such an inspiration!
The clippings and pictures in the book always relate to what is going on, which helps the reader grasp a deeper understanding of what was going on in specific moments in Connor Franta’s short twenty-two years.A Work in Progress is filled with personal experiences that Franta looks back and reflects on.
It is an in-depth look into his life outside YouTube and what YouTube means to him.Personally, I have never been a major fan of Franta’s videos.
A Work in Progress is written as if Franta is talking to the reader directly, which gives it a personal and direct feel while still maintaining professional prose.
It allows the reader to see Franta’s past in an intimate way and to showcase Franta’s personal side that he does not show in his YouTube videos.A Work in Progress is about a young man discovering who he is and what it means to live the life you want to live.
this is kind of a sloppy draft review, I'll update it soon after I purchase the book and read it again! Here are my brief thoughts so far…I purchased the Audio book on Audible, but am definitely buying this in paperback because WOW! I listened to it while organizing my movie shelves and when I was just bored and sitting around today, and it really got me thinking.What am I doing with my life? I want to major is journalism, I want to be a writer, I love books, I love the idea of writing and read
I want to major is journalism, I want to be a writer, I love books, I love the idea of writing and reading and stories and characters and new worlds and life!
Day after day.Back to the book…I love that Connor narrated this, and yes, I basically visualized him in front of a camera like it was one of his YouTube videos.
He's so talented and I loved hearing his story, the real Connor Franta, the one not on camera!
I think I'll be listening/reading this book/memoir again, very soon!Thank You, Connor, for being so inspiring!
connor. you are defiantly my favorite celebrity ever. your words inspire me to want to do better, to be happy and myself. to reach for my goals. I already feel the impact your book has placed on my life. thank you connor for going through all the hard things you did to get to where you are today. your story is incredible and I wish to find more like it. please everyone! read this book, and let's it change the way you look at life for the better.
Just when I thought I couldn't love Connor more than I already do. Take a deeper look into the life, mind and soul of Connor Franta. Truly this book is an extension of his videos that I've been waiting for. Bravo Connor!
I've never seen Connor's videos before and I'm typically disappointed in books by YouTubers.
But I seen so much hype around this book that I picked it up and I actually really liked it.
I felt like I was friends with Connor and was just hanging out, listening to his stories.
All of his stories are well spoken and not overly detailed.I really enjoyed the photos scattered throughout the book and how unique this book felt compared to other memoirs I've read.
Overall, I really enjoyed A Work in Progress and would recommend it if you're looking for a great non-fiction read.
There is a fine line between talking about your experiences and just giving advice and he fades the line - in a way that doesn't really work.
It would make sense to talk about something that happened and what his advice is from that, not just giving random advice about things that he hasn't and probably will never experience.
The creativity chapter pissed me off a lot, as does the whole thing about routine and such.
Chill.I refuse to take advice from a guy who dropped out of college in his sophomore year and thinks he is so educated because he learns from his experiences1!!!(Even a freakin cat doesn't eat something again that made it sick once) and took a philosophy class.
"Girls can be athletic. Guys can have feelings. Girls can be smart. Guys can be creative. And vice versa. Gender is specific only to your reproductive organs (and sometimes not even to those), not your interest, likes, dislikes, goals, and ambitions." I’m going to admit something pitiful right now; I’ve always struggled to get into YouTube. I have no problem watching the videos with friends; I actually enjoy when they show me the latest and greatest stories, songs, or skits. However, I’ve never
Guys can have feelings.
I have no problem watching the videos with friends; I actually enjoy when they show me the latest and greatest stories, songs, or skits.
I’ve seen a handful of Connor’s videos, and I’ve always liked his charisma so I knew something written by him (if it was actually written by him; celebrity memoirs are tricky that way) would be entertaining at least.
It added to the feel and even the emotion of this little book.
Overall, an adorable book shelf addiction for YouTube fans and anyone who enjoys a life story written with humor and honestly.
Not really at any fault of Connor's I just think it was aimed at people a: a little younger then me (like, kids who are 13-15) and b: people more actually into Connor and his youtube.
It was all very typical advice like "live in the moment!" and "be who you really are" which is all well and good but also kind of corny and non-inspiring since I've heard it all before a million timesBut in no way would I say this memoir is bad.
Some of the things Connor has done to get his YouTube career at the level it is today are really brave, and inspiring.


All the stars of the universe. First of all, let me tell you how much I admire Connor and his work as a creator not only of videos, but a creator of ART with his poems and awe-inspiring videos where you can know him better and better and feel him near of you. What was my experience with this book in a few words? I HAVE A LITTLE CONNOR FRANTA IN PAPER. Really, guys. This book was like having a conversation with him: a profound and deep conversation that you could not find in his videos because he
First of all, let me tell you how much I admire Connor and his work as a creator not only of videos, but a creator of ART with his poems and awe-inspiring videos where you can know him better and better and feel him near of you.
And there are a lot of other topics (I feel that I missed some) like: Art, photos, scars, body image, school, human being, tags, YouTube, sexuality, be yourself, love, happiness/sadness, dreams, etc.
Art, dreams, joy, souls, love, friendships, family… Connor talks about everything and ‘bout his experiences that are deeply moving and interesting.
I was moved while reading this book, Connor Franta really is an inspiration to all of us.
I have been watching him since maybe last year, I know I'm late but his videos are absolutely the bomb.His life is truly inspirational and I was encouraged as he said a lot of things about motivation.
I hope I can read more books about his life; I just think that this memoir is just the gist of it, and I want more of his exceptional words.
He posts a five minute long video every week and just talks.
Making YouTube videos.This book might seem like one of those inspirational books with nothing to say but it's different.
It feels like you're talking to your best friend and not just some adult who's constantly judging you because of every single thing you have done or doing or you might ever do.What really fascinates me is that I found out we're all the same.
Well thank you Connor you just answered that!!!P.s: If you want to watch some handsome guy talking watch his videos.
I am not going to pretend this book was written gold. I can tell you right now that the simple writing style is not going to cut it for some critics. I understand that, honestly, but for me it captured the essence of Connor and his videos and that is all I need. You can hear him reading it to himself exactly as its written on the page. It's quirky and fun but more importantly: creative, clever and thoroughly heart-warming. inspirational. I've taken a lot out of reading this book, and I am sure a lot people will too.
I'll preface this review by saying I knew very little about Connor Franta going into this book.
I'd never watched a Connor Franta YouTube video and I didn't really have any expectations going into the book.It was amazing.
Connor Franta has caught my attention and I'll definitely be checking out some of his videos in the future.I've seen a lot of mixed reviews on this books.
Connor obviously poured his heart and soul into this book and dismissing it off because his life isn't "tragic" enough or his struggles aren't "important" enough is sick.
"Allow yourself to go there and add your splash of color to the world." La verdad es que no esperaba que este libro me gustase ni una décima parte de lo que me ha gustado.
Este libro no es, ni de lejos, de mi estilo.
No me gustan los libros que no cuentan una historia, no me gustan los libros en los que un tío se pone a hablar de lo que piensa de tal o X cosa.
Es más, me suelen aburrir.
Pero por algún motivo ha sido maravilloso conocer el mundo de Connor Franta, sus opiniones, y su forma de ver
La verdad es que no esperaba que este libro me gustase ni una décima parte de lo que me ha gustado.
Pero por algún motivo ha sido maravilloso conocer el mundo de Connor Franta, sus opiniones, y su forma de ver el mundo.Me ha gustado mucho ver la evolución de este "personaje" que es Connor.
Si no fuera porque estamos hablando de una persona en lugar de un personaje ficticio, diría que es uno de los mejores character development que he leído.
Pero si tuviese que describir este libro en una palabra, diría inspirador.
