https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1294306.Art_and_Visual_Perception
This book was pivotal in opening my mind to a multifaceted way of looking at visual organization, composition and development.
Yes, he is from the modernist era and references many artists from that era because of when this was written, but this book is a timeless way of looking at anything.
He wrote well into his 90s (lived to be 103!), creating new books for the world.
Although his writing style is academic, it is by no means boring and every chapter leads to the pursuit of more knowledge through chasing down books, authors, musicians and artists that he references.
Contrary to what someone said here I would say this stuff does sink in- mainly because Arnheim managed to present his observations clearly, and illustrated them convincingly with visuals, in the form of reproductions or explanatory sketches by the author himself.Arnheim's book will equip its readers with not just a vocabulary, but a whole grammar for talking and thinking about paintings from any chosen era- an invaluable skill for anyone who falls in love with a particular painting but doesn't know why or how to explain it to others.Finally, 'Art and Visual Perception' is an essential read for those confused by post-modern art, willing to enjoy paintings firsthand, on a very basic and satisfying level, that is as resonant arrangements of lines, colours, planes.
Very similar to Visual Thinking, but a bit broader and contends with sociological & cultural considerations within the history of Art and science. Not quite as condensed, as Visual Thinking is essays, but a much deeper and more interesting book overall.
هذا كتاب أقل ما يقال أنه رائع ، يفسر كثير من الجوانب المتعلقة بالابداع البصري ، ،وهو مرجع ممتاز في مجاله
A perennial favorite!
This book required the double effort from me, since English is not my native language, but it help me build all my creative thinking and visual creativity from scratch in order to be able to "save" it in mind. At the end of the semester we took an exam on this book. 100/100
A nice book with interesting content. A must read for anyone who teaches or pursues art and architecture.
As a non-artist (trained in the sciences), this opened my eyes to the many things that are surely fundamental to practicing artists as regards composition.
And I see the value of formalism in art, particularly in its teaching as a craft.
But as a lover of art, I also see the danger.
And yet also thankful to now have a more studied basis to understand why it is that I may like or not like a certain work.
For the rest of us, this is a gift that opens the door to deeper understanding.
A wonderful insight into our artist look of our world as we see it through our eyes and mind.
A wonderful book that has views from both artist and scientist on the subject of sight and art...and where the two meet.
Also the psychology of viewing art is given unique attention with clear examples of theory of our perception of our world around us.
Its a must read and this is it's fifty year anniversary of it's publication so it's been a go to for many an artist in this era.
I cannot say enough good about this book. I finished it and wanted to start all over again. For someone who took only one more than the required Art classes in HS (mumble years ago), this was a godsend. I do wish Mrs Garber in Freshman Art Survey had bothered to impart even a smidgin of the information crammed into this book. I am going to purchase a copy. It's a bible for anyone who considers themselves any kind of artist in any visual media.
Cambió para siempre la forma en la que aprecio el arte. Es realmente para subrayar, marcar y anotar los temas porque sirven muchísimo, en especial para los que estudiamos carrera afines al diseño y el arte.
The Bible for all things visual and creative. Wonderful guide, accessory and even pillow at times for wide-eyed struggling art history buffs. I would have given it 5 stars had it not been my assigned text. Very big and bulky, hard to carry around.
Had to read it in College for a course...found that it seminal in how I looked at and processed the world around me. You can say that it helped me appreciate the intellectual life, instead of snearing at it from my anti-establishment, anti-conformist, angsty "punk rock" attitude as a teen.
Classic, but like Classic Coke, there can be too much of a good thing. In the hands of artists, well, like academic art classes, they may want to study it and then forget it.
If not the bible per se the New Testament for designers. A consulting guide for any kind of visual expression artist.
i dont know because i dont read this book. i want to this book
good reference book
Fantastic
This book is great but practically the longest sentence ever.
Not an easy read but a necessary one
Whew!
Libro básico para entender la percepción que tenemos sobre el arte y perfecto para darnos el conocimiento necesario al visitar una exhibición.
As an artist I find this book is a must read. It's difficult but essential.
A value lesson
Found it very interesting. But I read it so long ago that it's probably time to refresh my memory of it. It was a text book and I still have it. So much to read -- so little time!
Foundational text. Indispensable.
