https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20696006-being-mortal
(Added a link - 4/18/15 - at bottom)  In the past few decades, medical science has rendered obsolete centuries of experience, tradition, and language about our mortality and created a new difficulty for mankind: how to die. Being Mortal is completely irrelevant for any readers who do not have elderly relations, do not know anyone who is old or in failing health, and do not themselves expect to become old. Otherwise, this is must-read stuff. Life may be a journey, but all our roads, however long
Gawande tracks the history of late-life care from the poorhouse to the hospital to the nursing home to the range of options currently available, providing information of the benefits and shortfalls of each.
He also looks at some techniques that can make assisted living more tolerable, adding flora and fauna for residents to take care of for example, things like different sorts of physical layouts.
All too often these decisions are made without considering the impact on or getting input from the person most affected.Being Mortal looks at trends in the impact of using all available means to keep people alive, and how that affects someone’s final days.
I just simply say:If you think you might get older as time goes by and/or think you might even die at some time (or have relatives or other loved ones to whom this might apply), I urge you to read this book.
And if you happen to be over 50 (or care about someone over 50), read this book now.--You heard me.
I said NOW!For more detailed evaluations and descriptions of this book, I recommend to read the following reviews:Will Byrnes's review: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Cheryl's review: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Michael's review: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Debbie "DJ" Wilson's review: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Rebecca Foster's review: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Elyse's review: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Laura Leaney's review: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Correen's review: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...James Barker's review:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...HBalikov's review:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
She would often say, looking at the younger generations, "It’s wonderful to get old." Gawande touches on this in his memoir chronicling the death of his father and in his discussion of dying well.
I get that.One interesting study Gawande talks about is one in which people who know their time horizons are short, or who experience life-threatening conditions (e.g., living in a war zone, 9/11, surviving a tsunami) change their view of what they want out of life, their "hierarchy of needs" as defined by Maslow.
This is brilliant. I'm having a good run of 5* books at the moment. Atul Gawande refers several times to The Death of Ivan Ilych so now I have to read that. I like it how one book leads to another sometimes.
Here he delves into the tragedy of so many people at the end of their life dying in the depersonalized, institutional conditions of hospitals and nursing homes.In in his own training he was taught to see death as the enemy to fight at every step with everything in the arsenal of medicine and didn’t conceive any role for doctors in facilitating help with the dying process.
Lee, someone who knows how to fight for territory that can be won and how to surrender it when it can’t, someone who understands that the damage is greatest if all you do is battle to the bitter end.In a set of brief chapters, Gawande adroitly covers innovations in making nursing homes more humane, the advent of assisted living solutions, and growth in palliative care and hospice services.
It read like a story.Atul Gawande's Being Mortal Medicine and What Matters in the End is less an out-and-out thriller and more a personal meditation on modern medicine and how it has treated illness, aging, and dying.
It's an entire culture we've built up: how we think of and treat the elderly, how everyone expects doctors to do everything it takes, to offer and try every medical procedure possible to slow down the inevitable.
Gawande suggests several things, and the message is clear: We need more of our institutions and medical practitioners to believe that we shouldn't limit people's choices in the name of safety but expand them, in the name of living a worthwhile life.
And do I even want to live that long after reading this depressing book???!
It talked about how people cling to hope even if their case is hopeless, and how doctors are often unable to tell it to them straight.
Then why are so many old people on anti-depressants and anti-anxiety meds?Stuff I wanted: -Wanted it to be more psychological.-Wanted more discussion about the fear of death, and a mention of how religion plays a part.-Wanted talk about the cost of medical care.
The doctor is talking about the elephant in the room, which is cathartic, depressing, and anxiety-producing all at once—you might want to have your valium handy.
This is probably the most important book on mortality I've ever read.
Promise, I won't, but will try to stay with just a few important highlights.First, this book looks at nursing homes and the rise and fall of assisted living.
But, for a short time after people no longer simply died at home, assisted living, through the hard fought battles of one woman in particular was available to all patients.
This of course leaves no chance for good-byes, even "I'm sorry" or "I love you." What it really comes down to is a few important questions.
Hospice is available at any time, and the focus is on a person's wants and needs.
Thus both his cultural and educational background provide a diversity of approaches and in-depth knowledge for deciding issues of medical ethics.Near the very start of the book, Gawande points out that our ideas about death, and the desirability of both aging and the dying experience to be somehow controllable under a medical regime, is a very recent Western phenomenon.
The dignity of old age was something to which everyone aspired."Atul Gawande gives many such examples from his own childhood and early experience, plus a recent overview of how different countries have begun to change their perceptions, not always with good results.
Gawande boldy argues that the medical world has got it wrong when it comes to the treatment of the dying.
It's about being able to write the final chapter the way you want to and to enable well-being in the sense one wishes to be alive.
Written humanely by an emergency physician who in my opinion, has got it so right.
I can only hope to have a physician as intuitive and caring as he, as I shape my ending chapter.
are spent in institutions--nursing homes and intensive care units--where regimented, anonymous routines cut us off from all the things that matter to us in life."As the end draws near, some doctors go into an "informational mode".
This is the very marrow of being human." Terminally ill patients who had discussions with their doctor about end-of-life preferences were far more likely to die at peace, and to spare their family anguish.Gawande writes at length about assisted living and nursing homes.
I've been a fan of Atul Gawande since reading "Complications" with my local book club many years back --where 35 people showed up to 'express'.
Yet, I'm at peace --(come concerns;I'm not a total saint) --but life doesn't hurt as much as when I was a "young-strong-lean-mean-muscle-fighting-the-world-machine".Several reviews have been about readers personal connection with illness and death, written with dignity, courage and deeply felt.
ALL REVIEWS I'VE READ HAVE BEEN FIRST RATE ....(written with feelings of passion)Since Atul Gawande always seems to have balance in his books --(life, love, and loss)--I want to share something positive written about aging.
And , please, read other reviews --and I also can't stress strong enough.: Atul has written a searingly honest book.
And don't be scared -- this book doesn't bite.My rating: 3.5 stars rounded up to 4Favorite Story[Gawande's father wanted his body cremated and his ashes spread in the Ganges River, which is sacred to Hindus, so a few months after his death the family traveled to Varanasi]"As the oldest male in the family, I was called upon to assist with the rituals required for my father to achieve moksha -- liberation from the endless earthly cycle of death and rebirth to ascent to nirvana.
A very eye opening book on aging, what happens as we age, and where do we go, when we can no longer take care of ourselves.
This book asks some very interesting questions, makes one really think about the importance of making these decisions while one is still able.
What is important to us, what are we willing to give up, are some of those questions.The writing is clear, and concise, the information extensive but not at all confusing.
One person is very close to the author and we see all the decision making that goes into his final acceptance.
Atul Gawande is to be commended for sharing stories of his patients and family as they seek the answers to the questions of life’s final moments.
Gawande learned to ask these four questions of those in his care:What is your understanding of the situation and its potential outcomes?What are your fears and what are your hopes?What trade-offs are you willing to make and not willing to make?What is the course of action that best serves this understanding?Ask yourself these.
Do you think they might change as your situation does?I can only hope if I were ill that someone would ask me the first two questions.
***NO SPOILERS***The average lifespan of human beings today is around age 80, which means Being Mortal is an essential read for everyone. Cancer is the second leading cause of death in the U.S., and that also makes Being Mortal an essential read for everyone. Even if someone isn’t affected by the infirmities of old age or by cancer, at some point she’ll likely know at least one person who is. Whatever the case, everyone dies eventually, and everyone should be properly prepared to possibly make s
Cancer is the second leading cause of death in the U.S., and that also makes Being Mortal an essential read for everyone.
Even if someone isn’t  affected by the infirmities of old age or by cancer, at some point she’ll likely know at least one person who is.
In rich and loving detail, Gawande shares the stories of various elderly people (in the first half) and those dying from cancer (second half).
Prior to reading Being Mortal, I lacked an emotional link to these issues, especially to cancer.
These true stories are Gawande’s jumping-off point to argue for a sea change in elder care and also end-of-life care for the terminally ill.
I plan to pass it to my mother; she’s only 67, but it’s never too early to start on that ‘hard conversation’ about one’s wishes for the end of life.Favorite passage: “The simple view is that medicine exists to fight death and disease, and that is, of course, its most basic task.
Death is the enemy.
And in a war that you cannot win, you don’t want a general who fights to the point of total annihilation.
You don’t want Custer.
In his very excellent book Dr. Gawande uses that analogy to discuss the manner in which a physician attempts to discuss treatment options with a patient facing a life threatening/ending illness.
This book is his attempt to open up the uncomfortable dialog about the end of life processes most of us will have to face and why that needs to change.
Lacking a coherent view of how people might live successfully all the way to their very end, we have allowed our fates to be controlled by the imperatives of medicine, technology, and strangers."Do yourself a great service and read it soon.

We must nevertheless make the most of every day that we live on this planet and I’m certainly glad that I’m here.But when you see a loved one slowly slide into death, who had never been ill in his life, and then get every conceivable thing wrong with him, the scenario changes: constant doctors’/consultants’ appointments, cocktails of never ending and changing medications, X-rays, operations… It does tend to make one cynical but strangely enough it made me determined to read Atul Gawande’s book.
It is much more difficult to take care of elderly patients - often they have fifteen chief complaints instead of one, and often they are very very unglamerous complaints to attend to.Specialist geriatric medicine gets far too little money allocated to it, in spite of the fact it makes a big difference in people's lives.All over the world, the supply of geriatric psychiatrists, doctors, nurses and social workers are in short supply.Driving and the elderlyThe risk of a fatal car crash is three times higher with someone over 85 than it is for a teenage driver.Old age and loss (or why the elderly need our kindness.)Old ages is a continuous series of losses - losing your hearing, your memory, your best friends, your way of life.Nursing HomesVery few nursing homes give the elderly the quality of life they deserve.
This is a brilliant, fascinating, and extremely important book.
I wish I had read it before my mother died because I would have asked her more probing questions about her priorities in the last couple of months of her life.
Yet while Being Mortal made me regret the conversations I didn't have with my mom, I also came away feeling optimistic about the possibility for much-needed change in the way we think about age and dying in our culture.
Gawande is an influential author, journalist, researcher, surgeon, teacher and policy analyst, but here, he's turned his prodigious talent and intellect toward writing about "what matters in the end." I'm thankful that he put this amazing book into the world.
It is a must-read for everyone young (teens up) or old because we don't think about our end days properly or even ask the right questions.
He explains well how age can baffle doctors since not only can't they fix it, but attempts to do so can destroy the quality of life that is left.
As the 20th century progressed, more old lived, but less kids were born to each family, more daughters worked, families scattered, & so there are more old with less people available to take care of them.At about the same time (mid 20th C.), hospitals became places of healing rather than home.
This book was written by 'Wall Street Journal' reporter, Amanda Bennett about her family's very personal struggle with navigating the health care system during her husband, Terence Foley's battle with Kidney cancer.
It isn't that doctors do not write books; but I have never seen a book quite like this one written by a physician.Dr. Gawande focuses more specifically on aging and dying.
Without family, the elderly are left with a "controlled and supervised institutional existence, a medically designed answer to unfixable problems, a life designed to be safe but empty of anything they care about." And THAT fact seems to be the greatest problem with our society's institutionalization of aging and dying.
If you have aging/elderly parents whose care you might someday be involved in, or expect to care for someone with a terminal condition, you cannot afford to miss this book.
He extols the value of hospice and palliative care, whose aim is not to give up on patients, but to provide as many good days as possible in the inevitable slide to death.
He advocates asking difficult questions with patients and loved ones to determine what can bring meaning and value to them, even in the harsh narrowing of life's possibilities brought on by failing bodies and minds.
When she died in November 2012, a few weeks shy of her 68th birthday, I have truly never seen such peace on a face.In the last year of her life Mom had been well enough on a handful of occasions to wake and smile at me and sing with me.
after 3 touch and go trips to the hospital in the last year of her life I spoke to my sisters and told them it all came down to what we felt Mom would prefer- to die at home or have more and more (hopeless) treatment at hospital, where it was inevitable that one day she would happen to die.
This book is not pleasant to read.
It is challenging, emotional, difficult ...
As we face the inevitable, Gawande gives us a framework within which to consider the options we may have, the choices we might want to make, and the medical and/or other assistance we may or may not desire.
The central theme is that these decisions should be, to the maximum possible extent, the patient's, with family and medical input, and not the other way around.
In Gawande's experience that process, difficult and uncertain as it may be, yields the best results for all those involved.
He explores the question, "what makes life worth living when we are old and frail and unable to care for ourselves," is its many facets.
There are: basic needs for survival; need for love and belonging; desire for growth ("the opportunity to attain personal goals, to master knowledge and skills, and to recognized and rewarded for our achievements); and, perhaps, "self-fulfillment through pursuit or moral ideals and creativity for their own sake." He points out that "our driving motivations in life, instead of remaining constant, change hugely over time..."I learned a lot about how we often treat those who cannot care entirely for themselves and how attitudes and venues are changing.
Gawande points out that the medical profession and most of our institutions are not designed to deal with the human problem.
Gawande points to helpful experiences with hospice care, but we must first make that decision.
But for the average person without significant savings this is a serious financial as well as personal dilemma and too often ends with a person’s final days spent in an impersonal nursing home.Both medical care for the elderly and institutional care suffer from the same problem – task orientation rather than people orientation.
“A few conclusions become clear when we understand this: that our most cruel failure in how we treat the sick and the aged is the failure to recognize that they have priorities beyond merely being safe and living longer; that the chance to shape one’s story is essential to sustaining meaning in life; that we have the opportunity to refashion our institutions, our culture, and our conversations in ways that transform the possibilities for the last chapters of everyone’s lives.”   This right her
“A few conclusions become clear when we understand this: that our most cruel failure in how we treat the sick and the aged is the failure to recognize that they have priorities beyond merely being safe and living longer; that the chance to shape one’s story is essential to sustaining meaning in life; that we have the opportunity to refashion our institutions, our culture, and our conversations in ways that transform the possibilities for the last chapters of everyone’s lives.”
Questions need to be asked and once answers are decided upon, fear and anxiety of all parties involved can relax a bit.
