https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/785075.The_Death_of_the_Moth_and_Other_Essays
شاید برای ما این سبک نوشتار دلچسب نباشد، امّا به هر حال در نوع خود میتواند جالب باشد--------------------------------------------:تصویر اولاعتنا نکردن به تصویرها محال است..
نام ملوان این بود، نمی توانست به زبان آورد که پس از آن سفرِ دریاییِ طول و دراز، چقدر همه چیز در اینجا باب میلِ اوست.
همه چیز در نهایتِ آرامش و امنیت بود، امّا آن فریاد کاری میکرد که آدم پیوسته بیاندیشد که در آن شب، تمامی این زیبایی شریک جرم بوده است.
ملوان و همسرش بر درگاه کلبه ایستاده بودند، مرد بسته ای پشتش قایم کرده بود و زن به ظرافت آستین مرد را لمس میکند و گربه هم آن اطراف میچرخد و کاملاً به جزئیات تصویر دقت میکنیم.
but there are also many excellent works written in the last hundred years or so by authors such as Chesterton or Belloc or Virginia Woolf, whose The Death of the Moth and Other Essays I have just finished reading.The essays in the first 60-75% of the book are mostly sheer genius.
Even some of the back matter, especially the final essay “Thoughts on Peace in an Air Raid,” written not long before the author's suicide, are well worth reading.
Woolf has a way of bringing the literature of the past alive.
This idiosyncratic collection of posthumously anthologised odds-and-ends is nevertheless shot through with Woolf's typical wisdom. She is at her best when sharing her generous enthusiasms for other authors - notably the Romantic Poets, Henry James, and the letters of Horace Walpole.
oh, wait, Virginia is talking about Horace Walpole here (“man of letters and art historian,” Wikipedia tells me).
James Jones.But, as Virginia says of Henry James in her reviews of essays and letters he’d penned, “All great writers have, of course, an atmosphere in which they seem most at their ease and at their best; a mood of the great general mind which they interpret and indeed almost discover, so that we come to read them rather for that than for any story or character or scene of separate excellence.
*The Death of the Moth
Street Haunting: A London Adventure read only
Virginia Woolf ei koskaan petä. En olisi uskonut että olisin koskaan jaksanut lukea esseetä laivateollisuudesta ja olla kiinnostunut koko esseen ajan, mutta niin tapahtui. Parasta antia olivat alun kirjallisuusesseet, mutta kokoelman laatu on kyllä tasapainoinen koko sen ajan. Ehdottoman viihdyttävä, terävä ja mielenkiintoinen, kuten kaikki mitä olen lukenut Woolfilta tähän saakka.
It's an interesting little volume - but one to dip into rather than read through.
It's a collection of Virginia Woolf's miscellaneous writings published after her death by Leonard Woolf.
Some of the essays are quite wonderful (and brief) such as her writing on peace from an air raid shelter during the blitz.
Unfortunately, there's a lot more of the limited interest writing than the immortal essays.
Some of his might never have been published had she herself edited it.
In any case, the worst of her writing is more worth reading than many author's best!
As I looked at the dead moth, this minute wayside triumph of so great a force over so mean an antagonist filled me with wonder.”Evening Over Sussex: Reflections in a Motor Car.Virginia talks about light from the sun, the stars and the beam of a car and also talks about a pin that pricks.
Linking the three pictures is Virginia Woolf’s attempt at extrapolating human nature and that more specifically women know how to read better than men.
It could be that it was a social criticism on how men treat women in general?Old Mrs. Grey.Here, Virginia was talking about humanity and the importance of reading and writing.
Virginia Woolf is a master essayist, and "A Room of One's Own" shows her talents at their peak. The essays in "The Death of the Moth" are mostly focused on literary criticism, particularly Victorian poetry. While there are some interesting anecdotes along the way, the topic is somewhat specialized for most modern readers. Still, Woolf is a charming writer, and this book has some fine moments. But for most readers, "A Room of One's Own" is a better place to get a taste of Woolf's non-fiction talent.
"წიგნები წიგნებს მისდევს და კვლავ გვრჩება მიუღწეველი დაპირების შეგრძნება, შეგრძნება ინტელექტუალური სიღატაკისა, ბრწყინვალებისა, რაც ცხოვრებას გამოგლიჯეს, მაგრამ ლიტერატურაში ვერ გადმოიტანეს.ბევრი რამ, რაც თანამედროვე ნაწარმოებებში საუკეთესოა, ისე გამოიყურება, თითქოს წნეხის ქვეშ იყოს გამოტარებული..."ამბობს ვირჯინია ,- არა მხოლოდ მწერალი, არამედ როგორც დახვეწილი და გამორჩეული კრიტიკოსი .კარგი კრებულია. ხანდახან იმდენად პრიმიტიულ კითხვებს სვამს , რომ შეიძლება გაგვიკვირდეს კიდეც ვირჯინიასგან :) მისი თანაგრძნობის უნარს მივაწეროთ, უბრალოდ ცდილობს არ გახდეს მსაჯული.
While I was reading this collection of essays, its author became my best friend. I am impressed by Woolf's intelligence, sense of humour and ability to make a clear distinction between what is important and what is not in both literature and life. She knows what a human soul is like and is able to describe it in her own unique way, which I respect and love about her.
I love Virginia Woolf, but I found that I became bored about halfway through this particular collection. I still appreciate her style, intelligence, and insight, but didn't truly enjoy reading these essays enough to give them a higher rating. Perhaps I'll revisit a few of them in the future to see if my opinion changes at all.
In fairness, I trimmed this collection down to those essays that covered topics I knew even a tiny bit about, leaving aside essays on books and writers I had not read. That's some significant trimming.
Free download available at eBooks@Adelaide.
Many of these works, particularly The Death of the Moth, Evenings in Sussex, and Street Haunting evoke her exceptional powers of perception beneath the superficial gloss of real life.
The Death of the Moth doubly reads like a melancholy tribute and impressionist portrait of the universally human theme of mortality and our impotence against the grander forces of life.
And I looked at the dead moth, this minute wayside triumph of so great a force over so mean an antagonist filled me with wonder.
Just as life had been strange a few minutes before, so death was now as strange.
Hoş, okumaya ilk zorladığım kitap “kendine ait bir oda”daki üslup beni ne kadar zorladıysa aynı sorunu birebir bunda da yaşadım.
Belki ikinci kitabı diye üsluba alışmış olurum daha iyi anlarım diye düşündüm ama yalan yok hiçbir şey değişmedi.Virgina Woolf kitabında size bir gözlem dünyası sunuyor.
Yani İngiliz edebiyatını bilmeyen birine o kadar uzak kalıyor ki anlattığı konular.
Bunu bir utanç ya da hata olarak görmüyorum ve dürüstlükle söylemek istiyorum ki kitabı yarıda bıraktım.
Keyif almayı, okuduğumu anlamayı bıraktığım yerde kitabı da bıraktım.
Üslup duvarını aşabilip, İngiliz edebiyatı ile ilgili atıflarını anlayabilseydim.Belki bir gün, belki hayatımın ilerleyen yıllarında.
I only really read the first five essays, and to those I apply my five stars. After that it turned to literary criticism, which I've never had much appetite for. But those first five essays were so wonderful -- melancholy, beautiful, funny, and above all filled with Virginia Woolf's stunning power of observation. Free on Project Gutenberg, so take a look!
Woolf oli nero. Oikeasti. Se, miten analyyttisesti hän pystyi ajattelemaan ja miten erinomaisesti hän kirjoitti, on kyllä nerouden merkki.Upeita esseitä erilaisista aiheista. Erityisesti kirjallisuuden esseet olivat mahtavia.Ja toisaalta, nyt tekee mieli lähteä Espanjaan. :D
A very, very, very good collection of the fruits of a very, very, very talented, lively mind
Such an incredible collection of essays - I will forever judge anybody who doesn’t commend Virginia Woolf on her impeccable writing skills. 4 stars :)
"It was as if someone had taken a tiny bead of pure life and decking it as lightly as possible with down and feathers, had set it dancing and zigzagging to show us the true nature of life." Can Virginia Woolf be any more beautifully sensitive than this?
Virginia Woolf was a master of the essay genre.
Her language is sophisticated and precise, she is smart and witty, and you can't help bowing in awe when she puts her finger on the essence of the matter yet again.
It's amazing how much she tells you about herself while speaking of other people, and suddenly you find yourself pondering on the question of self, concluding that you only really become yourself when you abandon self-consciousness, and the real art lies not in the conscious acquiring of a personality, but in giving up the consciousness of self in favour of the conscious empathy with others, which in its turn leaves the land of the conscious and turns into life itself.
Разказите, за съжаление малко на брой, са хубави, увлекателни и много приятни за четене.
Вниманието й към детайлите не е досадно, а напротив - оживява картините и читателят усеща, вижда и чува, присъства там чрез описанията й и е почти участник в случващото се.
Точно както преди време ни преподаваха в часовете по литература - обилно обяснително се правеха опити да ни уеднаквят мислите в някаква точно определена и удобна някому посока, да ни наложат нечия гледна точка, усещания и впечатления от книгите - еднакви за всички и изключващи нашите собствени.
not rly a continuation of the common reader as touted; its like half lit crit half...weird essays abt walkin down the street & super-sarcastic letters to the 'new statesman'.
wtf is the basis for this selection leonard.
however, collection includes 'professions for women' address, so thanks.[a recording exists of woolf reading the essay 'craftsmanship' from a '37 broadcast & like...i spose objectively she sounds exactly like u wld expect her to sound but it still totally threw me I mean she talks exactly like l.p.wimsey, like shes sucking on soft bread at the same time as shes talking.
like, I can tell u r makin english words w/ yr mouth but I cannot make them into coherent sentences????
wtf are u talkin abt????
summat abt the dictionary?
I only had to read a handful of essays out of this for class, but I'll definitely have to revisit the ones I didn't read when I have some free time (or when I have a break from class). I've read it before, but her "Middlebrow" essay is particularly good (and pretty funny, I might add). I'm still kind of amazed that I had to get all the way to grad school to read Virginia Woolf. At any rate, I'm glad that I'm getting the chance now.
Algunos escritos no me interesaron mucho porque no conozco a los autores a los que Virginia está reseñando, pero el escrito inicial, "La muerte de la polilla", se convirtió, sin duda, en uno de mis favoritos.
I loved this collection of essays. It overlaps a little with a few other collections (selected essays; the essays of v woolf I to V, etc) but I thought the opening story was beautiful. And that stuff on words!
When I first started reading this, I was bored. I was thinking, "Why do I care about the moth?" But then towards the middle of the essay, I started wondering if it would get up and survive. I enjoyed this essay, but I wasn't in love.
gostei infinitamente mais da Virginia nos ensaios. ela é pontual. a impressão é que ela está dando o veredito final sobre qualquer coisa que fale :) esse livro é voltado pra literatura e é uma delícia! =)
