https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2279.Truman
For some reason or another, I had to read this book in 3 days.
It was like a full time job, considering it's about 3284293842034820384238 pages long.
Then I forgot almost everything.Anyway, if you want seem like a history encyclopedia for a little while, take a three-day weekend and rip this bad boy open.
Maybe you'll get laid.(one word of caution: reading this gave me the temerity to say "mcarthur was a giant pussy" in history class, at which point i found out that the substitute that day had served under mcarthur.
but nobody self taught himself more -- other parts give us a greater appreciation and understanding for a critical time in history when Truman was President.
There is so much to pull out of this book --from his early life through the rise of the future President he would become - to the history of the Cold War --scandals challenges--mistakes --an understanding of the dispute between Truman and Douglas MacArthur during the Korean War .
the gossip and the news.....I think would've driven me crazy: "Good God, Truman will be President", it was being said everywhere.
I loved the stories of Truman's courtship of his wife, Bess, of his dream to be a concert pianist, of his battle experiences during the Great War, of his senator campaign, of his unlikely path to become vice president, of his whistle stop tour.
He had to take command at the close of World War II, he chose to drop atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, he decided to send American troops to Korea, and he ushered in a new kind of foreign policy for the United States.
It was clear that the author held the former president in high esteem, but as a reader, McCullough's narrative made it a more enjoyable book.
Excellent read for lining up all the threads of a great leader's life in a narrative that flows like the story from a novel.
He saw enough war as an artillery captain in World War 1 to hate war, but was effective enough at it to inform his role as Commander in Chief during both the end of World War 2 and the Korean War. Despite a conception of Truman as hot tempered, his restraint was often remarkable.
For example, the impulse to fire McArthur immediately for pushing in the media for a war with China was tempered by waiting for assessment of his value from a military perspective by the Joint Chiefs.
It is essential to get another view on Truman's actions and choices concerning atomic weapons, the arms race and the Cold War. To get a fuller understanding of the time and era I strongly recommend reading American Prometheus too!**************************************I listened to the audiobook format of this book, that means more than 54 hours, and I enjoyed every minute of it.
(Some voices were, however, in my opinion, too low and ponderous.) At the end, and this is a book that covers all aspects of Truman’s life, from birth to death, i.e. 1884-1972, there were tears in my eyes.
On completion of this book you have a thorough understanding of the American party system.
Few presidents have made as many pivotal decisions or faced the number of history-changing events as Harry Truman -- the final five months of World War II, the Potsdam conference, the birth of atomic warfare, the post-war nationwide rail strike, the Marshall Plan, the partition of Palestine and the creation of Israel, the Czechoslovak coup d'etat, the Berlin Airlift, war in Korea and the relief of Douglas MacArthur, the formation of NATO, the reorganization of the U.S. defense establishment and the wartime government seizure of the steel industry due to labor unrest.
I knew essentially nothing about Harry Truman before reading this biography, and now I think he might be my favorite president.
Truly a man of the people, who never let the highest office in the country go to his head, Truman made difficult decisions that would have crippled other men within the first four months of his presidency.
Because of this, even with public outcry growing, he refused to use the atomic bomb or the newly developed H-bomb in Korea.
Truman was a man of his principles, who put the good of the nation and the people who lived in it before the good of his own public image.
Truman’s life that I purchased way back on 30 October 1992 (I always date my books for reference) and so I won't even attempt to write a review such as his but then I probably wouldn't have been capable of doing that anyway.
Due to that I came across Steve’s review.It's a large book of 996 pages, excluding the source notes, index and bibliography, and it took me a while to read but it was absolutely riveting.
Such a waste of human life but then to put it tritely, that’s war I guess.
That’s a disturbing fact.“Big bomb dropped on Hiroshima August 5 at 7:15 pm Washington time.
I'm reading it because McCullough's bio of John Adams made me bawl like a baby when I got near the end.
I mean-- how can one not cry upon reading about Adams and Jefferson BOTH living until and dying on July 4th, the same July 4th, out of sheer will?
They are the ones that can truly inspire and make me feel that I am human-- or not alone in my foibles and weaknesses.Anyway, I set a goal at the beginning of the year to read six bios per year.
;) I feel like I'm learning so much about whole time periods, not just about individual figures.
Even so he survived well in a turbulent era - the end of World War II, taking the decision to drop the atomic bomb on Japan, the commencement of the Cold War, the creation of the state of Israel (where he did waffle) and the Korean War. Truman importantly promoted the U.N.He was not afraid to take decisions, but he could be petulant as in writing to the Washington Post when they dared to criticize his daughter’s musical performance at a concert (this was something Roosevelt would never have done).I felt the author devoted too many pages to the 1948 campaign (over 60 pages).
It's obvious that McCullough thinks highly of Truman, but he grapples with the controversies of Truman without softpeddling, unlike Stephen Ambrose's one-volume "Eisenhower: Soldier & President," where Ambrose neglects important events and spends entirely too much time raining down praise on Ike.This thoroughly researched book presents Truman in a fair and balanced manner, and much of that research is based on Truman's diaries.
"Truman" covers the president's bad decisions as well as his good ones, with the president's rationale behind those decisions.I highly recommend this book and I believe it sits high atop the heap of the many available presidential biographies.
When the US goes into The Great War, Truman, already enlisted, heads off to Europe and McCullough documents his perils and successes, as he rises, briefly, in the military before its end in 1918.
Returning to America, Truman tries his hand at being a businessman before eventually making strong roots in the state Democratic Party and becoming a presiding judge.McCullough gives much attention to Truman’s various roles on the national political scene.
Detailed struggles with labour in a post-war America pits Truman against large swaths of the left, alienating some key Democratic support and devastates the party at the 1946 mid-term elections.
And the eighty or so pages describing his post-presidency seemed relatively uneven and unexciting…but this later period of his life lacks large moments and critical decisions, so it is unsurprising the final chapter suffers by comparison.Overall, however, David McCullough’s “Truman” proves one of the best presidential biographies of the 164 I’ve read thus far.
If the hallmark of a great presidential biography is providing a comprehensive (and fascinating) understanding of its subject – and bringing to life the broader history of the era – then David McCullough’s biography of Harry Truman could hardly be more successful.Overall rating: 4½ stars
When things get that screwed up, the options shrink in terms of making decisions.2) Truman, at least as presented by McCullough, was one of the more qualified presidents we have had due to a large amount of sheer nerve and having an unshakable moral compass.So I'm glad I read it, glad I persisted all the way to the end.
I know there is always more to learn but it makes me happy when I actually do learn new things.I still hold most of the views I've held but without a deeper understanding of how the world actually works, those views are just pipe dreams.
With the elections coming up, I think it is important for everyone to take a good look at what a presidency is all about.
This book was particularily interesting to me, because the author is so detail-oriented, you really get a perfect sense of where this man came from, and how he came to be the leader of the free world at that time.
We have to remember that the people in the history books were once just 'real men', with flaws, dreams, and families.
Sometimes it's not all policy and hogwash; Sometimes, it's just integrity, experience and good common sense.
While it may not have been the inspiration, that statement along with troop withdraws in 1948 and 1949 were hardly discouragements.Yes, Harry was the common man who became President but McCullough glosses over the reasons for Henry Wallace being replaced by Truman as V.P. on the 1944 ticket.
McCullough tells us that many Southern Democrats and city bosses were uncomfortable with Wallace, especially given Roosevelt's health.
Indeed many Democratic leaders were worried that Wallace and his advisors were too sympathetic to the Soviets and that "moderate" Harry Truman would take a tougher post-war stand against them than would Wallace.Still, McCullough has a good literary style and his account often reads more like a novel than a biography.
But Harry Truman’s best quality as Clark Clifford noted, “was Harry Truman’s capacity to grow.” Thrust into a job for which he was ill prepared, Truman overcame his shortcomings working through an onslaught of difficult problems to provide genuine leadership and unlike other presidents, maintain his principles while doing it.
Even more disturbing, FDR did nothing to prepare Truman to assume the presidency, only meeting with him twice and never discussing anything of substance.When Truman did take over, he was immediately faced with tough foreign policy issues in which he had absolutely no experience; How to end the war and deal with a postwar world with a communist Russia as a major power.
'' 'Harry, don't you sometimes feel overwhelmed by your job?' he had been asked by Republican Senator Tobey of New Hampshire, and Truman had stepped to the globe and turning it slowly said, 'All the world is focusing on this office.
The nearest thing to my heart is to do something to keep the world at peace.
We must find a way to peace, or else civilization will be destroyed and the world will turn back to the year 900.' ''Ambitious in scale, widely researched, McCullough's 992 pages long biography of Truman was a great read.
I was totally over the top in my admiration for both Mr Truman as well as David McCullough.
Our country was so lucky to have had a man like Mr Truman in control of our government during this, a most unnerving time of our history.
He bore leadership as a true leader, not afraid to make decisions that might not always hold him in the public opinion's good graces.
He believed that his job was to be decisive and lead this country to the best of his ability.
You can tell through the writing that McCullough himself felt a high level of admiration for Mr Truman.
Fascinated by the detail and Mr. McCullough's ability to transport me back to the time period. Additionally, I am developing a tremendous respect for Mr. Truman's civility and dedication to "correctness" and his tremendous respect for others. - Time well spent - Excellent book in detail, narrative and storyline! I have really enjoyed this book and recommend it toanyone wanting both historical infomation and an understanding o the unchanging nature of Politics!!!
Been quite an undertaking to read this huge book but who would have thought that a 992 page political biography could be so fascinating.Before starting this, all I knew about Harry Truman was that he was the president who took over from FDR at the end of WW2 and made the decision to use the atomic bomb.
It ranks up there with his book John Adams, and I can certainly understand why it received the Pulitzer Prize.The book covers an astonishing array of subjects, Truman's heritage and childhood, his work as a farmer, his shaky rise as a senator and vice president, his astonishing first days as president, the atom bomb, dealings with Stalin and Churchill, the Truman Doctrine, the Marshall plan, the establishment of Israel, the rise of the Cold War and communism, Korea, firing MacArthur, assassination attempt against his life, rebuilding the White House, and his absolute commitment to his wife and daughter.The book has a positive look at the president, but McCullough does also bring up the scandals in the administration.
If you didn't like Truman before reading the book, you will after you read it!
His energy and hard work, his strength of character, his decisiveness, his love for his wife, mother, and daughter will impress you.
Truman inherited the presidency upon the death of one of the most popular presidents in history, Franklin D.
He made the difficult decisions that brought World War II to a close with the bang of nuclear power.
Marshall, the nation’s best, but least known, General, to the success that won him a Nobel Peace Prize and fired the nation’s best known general, Douglas MacArthur, for the insubordination that nearly brought on World War III.
He was the man for the moment, and he was a values based leader.
This read is another must in a study to understand what it means to be a values based leader.

Excellent, human biography of the self-underrated president who led the U.S. during a period of unimaginable change and danger. McCullough writes wonderfully, with a dramatist's flair but without gilding the lily whatsoever. This is a richly rewarding experience for history buffs and anyone interested in great biography.
The only thing I knew about Harry Truman before reading this book was a recollection of the famous picture of him holding up a newspaper that read "Dewey Defeats Truman." I am amazed at Truman's hard work, integrity, and love of people.
I never fully understood his contributions to the post-WWII world, such as the Marshall Plan, the Truman doctrine, containment of atomic bomb, containment of the Cold War, or his courageous decision to champion civil rights more than any president since Abraham Lincoln (up to Truman's time).
Considering the subject and McCullough's work and talents I'd say the Pulitzer he received for his writing is well justified.Inspiring and informative book.
Additionally, the post-war period was probably the last time somebody could get away with claiming they were for civil rights in public while in private writing things like this: One man was as good as another, he thought, “so long as he’s honest and decent and not a nigger or a Chinaman.”...
In the end, I wouldn't say that I "like" Truman, but reading about him and his time in office has certainly given me a better perspective on the post-war period and a taste of how modern American politics works out.
Today Harry Truman, unpopular while he served, carries a reputation as one of our strongest presidents.
I believe this biography must have contributed to the positive perception we have of him today.
Throughout the book Truman is seen as a courageous and just leader of the free world, friend to almost everyone, the beacon of democracy in the world beginning to be threatened by an expansionist communism, loving husband and father, and a champion of every right for all Americans.
This is a very approving biography of Harry Truman.
But I wondered if the book wasn't too loaded with the positive.
Truman's life and presidency span what I think of in my made-up historical heuristics as "the olden times" to modernity (e.g. hey, my parents were alive for that!).
As I've been concurrently reading Nixon and Kissinger: Partners in Power, I was particularly impressed with Truman's willingness to surround himself with and listen to the experts in his cabinet (spoiler alert: Nixon is kind of self-conscious when it comes to being the smartest guy in the room).
This was all the more important given how naïve Truman could seem at times (e.g. his sweeping statements re.
The book itself is fantastic and epic (and I'm certainly not qualified to write a review of Truman's presidency).
Hey, it could be a way to shrink government!I remember that Truman got just about all of the important decisions right, even though he was not very popular at the end of his presidency.
Second, because it is an audio book, they include many sections with recordings of Truman speaking.
Sure it may be the longest book you have ever read, but McCullough is a masterful story teller and Truman is a fascinating subject.
And if you just can't dive into a book of this length, the audio abridgment is a excellent substitute.
