https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1032479.Peace_At_Last
Very cute children's book and beautifully illustrated.
This book contains some brilliant onomatopoeic words such as 'DRIP, DRIP...
went the leaky kitchen tap' and 'CUCKOO!
CUCKOO!' I feel that reading this aloud with the children could open up so many discussions about onomatopoeia.
I think this might be a good topic for KS2 children.Essentially this is a story about Mr Bear, Mrs Bear and Baby Bear and it tells the tale of poor Mr Bear and his constant plight to get some sleep on a really noisy night in the Bear household, garden, car etc…Jill Murphy uses wonderful illustrations to tell the story.
Jill Murphy’s books also include On the Way Home and Whatever Next which are both brilliant also.
You know those nights when you can't sleep? Every noise just seems to be extra loud and you end up lying wide awake, just listening? Well that is how this book starts. Mr Bear is trying to sleep but noises keep disturbing him so he goes place to place to sleep for the night with less and less success.Amusing till the end. And any parent can relate to its ending so it will likely bring a chuckle or smile to your day. This would probably be perfect on those nights the children just can't seem to sleep!
I can't sleep here" are words I hear again and again from children imitating this story book.
went the living room clock" within this story book alongside repitition and rhyme means children are exposed to many different language techniques that enables them to develop their own literacy skills.
I remember this story book also being a favourite from my childhood mainly because I had many activities which supported the story such as role play which as a child was extremely entertaining.
I definitely would recommend the book and believe that different props and activities could help to support children in all aspects of their language development.
A picture book about all the sounds at night that keep Mr Bear awake, from his wife's snoring to a dripping tap.
The story follows Mr Bear as he tries to find somewhere quiet to sleep.A good book for EYFS if you want to discuss sounds and highlight the importance of getting a good nights sleep.
I read it in nursery and the children got really involved in the story, joining in with making the noises and trying to guess what sounds would keep Mr Bear awake in each location.
Lots of opportunity for discussions about loud and quiet as well.
I really enjoyed reading this book, and remember reading it as a child myself. Poor Mr bear cannot sleep. He attempts to find somewhere more peaceful, however is distracted by all the different noises that occur throughout the night. After many attempts Mr bear finally finds somewhere peaceful to sleep, however is then woken up by the alarm clock! I love the authors use of words representing sounds, such as 'TICK TOCK, TICK TOCK'. This is an enjoyable book with great illustrations. This book would be perfect for a teacher to read to a reception class.
Peace at Last is a funny book as Mr Bear explores many avenues in order to get some sleep, however the noises around the house keep him awake. Murphy makes good use of onomatopoeia as the words that represent sounds keep the reader engaged and make the book more exciting. Sadly when Mr Bear does nodd off to sleep the alarm goes off, which results to Mr Bear not getting any sleep at all. However he does get a lovely, hot cup of tea.
Meh. It was alright for me. The bears trying to find a peaceful place to sleep in a noisy house was rather humorous, but also not especially captivating. I liked Jill Murphy's illustrations of witches and cats better (see "The Worst Witch") but these are still pleasant and I am glad she included a hedgehog in the garden ;-)
Every time I have read this, I've found the children have enjoyed it! It allows for lot's of opportunities for the children to join in/ ask questions and atc out experiences. I found it worked okay as a planning base or activities (2 year old room, nursery).
For the rest of the book the left hand side page has writing and a black sketch and the right hand side has the colour photo.
The sketches seem to be depicting the movement of the characters, when Mrs Bear is snoring and keeping Mr Bear up, the Sketch sees him looking at her, similar on the following page, the writing is talking about Mr Bear sleeping in baby bears room but he's awake too.
The colour picture shows that, but the sketch shows his transition from his room to the baby's room; his movements.
The end page is similar to the first with both writing and a colour picture.
Poor Mr Bear is trying to get to sleep but lots of sounds are keeping him awake ‘snore-snore, drip-drip, tick-tock’.
Luckily, Mrs Bear comes upstairs with a nice cup of tea for him.What I like most about this story is the onomatopoeia ‘meow-meow,’ as it brings the story to life and enables the to audience to experience all the sounds Poor Mr Bear is hearing.
All of these are literary techniques that help to develop children’s understanding of the world around them and to learn new vocabulary.The story even has a funny ending that will amuse the children because as soon as Mr Bear gets to sleep he is woken up again because his alarm goes off.
For fun again.
Peace At Last, written by Jill Murphy, is about how Mr Bear could not sleep because of different noises.
Finally when Mr Bear decided to go back to bed and fell asleep, his alarm clock went off and woke him up.It is a fantastic book and I very much enjoy this book.
It is a great way for children to think about what they do before they go to bed to try and get to sleep.An appropriate age range for this book would be between 4-7 year olds.
Mr Bear leaves each room saying "Oh NO!", "I can't stand THIS." Mr Bear then proceeds to another room to find some peace eventually ending up outside trying to find peace and quiet in the car.This is a great onomatopoeic book and follows a repetitive rhyming pattern.
Children are eager to interact with the sounds each object makes and repeat the words "Oh NO!", "I can't stand THIS" Every time Mr Bear can’t sleep.
During music the children could try and create familiar noises which are made in different rooms around the house or act out sequences during drama.
Mr Bear tries to sleep in various different areas within the house but fails to do so, as he is constantly presented with obstacles that prevent him from falling asleep; the clock goes ‘tick, tock, tick, tock’ whilst the kitchen tap leaks, ‘drip, drip’.
Jill Murphy constantly uses repetition and rhyme through the story, both repetition and rhyme are very clever techniques to use in story writing because, not only do children engage with the repetition and rhyme used but also it helps increase the speed and confidence of children in learning.
Besides repetition and rhyme the children are exposed to different language techniques such as onomatopoeia and adjectives.
He even went outdoors but to his luck there was no peaceful place to be found.Jill Murphy has good use of onomatopoeia in this book, such as 'TICK-TOCK, TICK-TOCK, CUCKOO!
I like the way the author shows that there are sounds all around us and how we take them for granted.This book has great use of words and expressions; I would recommend this book for KS1 children who can really enjoy reading this.
Also, Early years children would really enjoy this book being read to them, with lots of expression.The illustrations are colourful and great to look at.
The story starts with Mr Bear, Mrs Bear and Baby Bear all going off to bed.
The story proceeds to follow Mr Bear around the different rooms in his house, and even outside, as he searches for somewhere peaceful to sleep.
The author has used repetition in the book, for example the sigh of Mr Bear's "Oh no, I can't stand this" as he is kept awake by the sounds in the different rooms.
There is also a wide variety of onomatopoeia used throughout the story, to describe the sounds that are keeping Mr Bear awake.This book is also a very good example of a story with a beginning, middle and end.
This is a book I will never forget, I read this book when I was in school in Year One and remember it ever since, it is a book that allows children to think what subjects or objects make certain sounds, giving them the opportunity to think.
In this book Mr Bear finds it very difficult to sleep due to the noise around him, he moves around the house in different rooms to find comfort, but wherever he goes there is no silence.
It was read out to my class, and all the children appeared very engaged, excited and looked forward to where Mr Bear will go next.
This is a book I used in a lesson during my first placement with my reception class, immediately I can say it is a book which has stood the test of time as I remember being taught it when I was in primary school.I found this edition of Jill Murphy's classic picture book ideal for sharing with groups of children.
After this he tries to sleep in many other areas of the house but finds other obstacles which prevent him from gaining good nights sleep.Overall I found the bright colourful pictures accompanied by the simple, repetitive text of this book delightful and easy to use in the classroom, pupils were engaged by the repetitive text and as a result enjoyed being involved in reading/ shouting the story.
As he visits the different rooms inside the house and even results to going outside he is still unable to find a peaceful place to sleep.
I think that this is a terrific book to use in the classroom as it can be used to introduce and to also get the children to think about the different sounds that they can hear in their own environment.
Murphy uses colourful illustrations, a paragraph to compliment every two pages and has also made the book available in Bengali, Chinese, Gujarati, Punjabi , Urdu and Vietnamese.
Peace at Last is the story of Mr Bear's quest for a quiet night's sleep.
The story starts by introducing the family of bears Mr Bear, Mrs Bear and Baby Bear.
He goes to sleep in Baby Bear’s room but he is still awake playing aeroplanes and making loud noises.
Mr Bear goes around the whole house trying to find a quiet place to sleep but each time he is woken up by another loud, annoying sound.
This would be a great book for KS1 children to start reading on their own.
Bright colourful pictures accompany the simple, repetitive text of this delightful storybook.Children will lots of fun in all the wonderful sound effects "TICK-TOCK...went the living room clock...TICK-TOCK, TICK-TOCK.
It's late at night and Mr Bear is desperately trying to sleep but Mrs Bear snores so he tries Baby Bear's room, but Baby Bear is pretending to be an aeroplane so there's no peace there.
Room by room Mr Bear goes through the house trying to find somewhere to sleep, he ends up going to sleep in the kitchen.
And parents and adults with children will have plenty of empathy for poor Mr Bear's predicament.
The reader is led along from one room to another, each with a different noise or distraction that prevents Mr. Bear from dozing off, whether it be the snoring of Mrs. Bear in the bedroom, or the dripping tap in the kitchen.The story concludes with Mr. Bear finally able to nod off to sleep, only to be awaken by morning alarm clock!The story is full of a great variety of sounds that could be brought to life within the classroom, as well as domestic scenarios that may be familiar to children at home.A comforting story that can excite and entertain in large mearure.
It tells the story of Mr Bear who struggles to sleep and encounters many noises during the night.
Murphy’s brilliant use of onomatopoeia like ‘tick-tock’, ‘cuckoo’ and ‘drip drip’ engages young readers and appeals to their auditory senses.
The illustrations too are colourful and details appealing to their visual senses.
An excellent book for circle which allows children to join in with the onomatopoeic sounds and begin to think about the sounds they hear around them in their day-to-day lives.
This can also be entwined into literacy and drama lessons where children can write their own story with onomatopoeic words and act it out.
Its a story about a family of Bears and Daddy Bear finds it hard to go to sleep because lots of sounds within the house keeps him awake.
Children find it funny that Daddy bear cannot sleep.
It is also fun for the children to mimic the different sounds in the story which would link in with acting/drama.
The loud noises include snoring where children could make the sound.
The 'nyaaow' sound of an areoplane so they could physically act out the motion and sound of one, the tick-tock of a clock, drip sounds of a kitchen sink and bird noises.
The use of rhyming and repetition throughout appeals to children and encourages them to engage with the story.
A variety of drama and role play activities can coincide with the telling of the story and children enjoy recreating the various sounds which prevent Mr.Bear from gaining a peaceful night's sleep.
Children also enjoyed revisiting the story to see if they can guess which noises keep Mr.Bear awake in each setting.
This could also be a nice book to settle young children down and the phrase 'Peace At Last' could be a fun way for a teacher to encourage children to be quiet!
Read this to my Reception children in SEA and they loved it.
The story kept them engaged and listening.
It is one of those books that they can listen to over and over again.
The children enjoyed -reading along with the noises of the night; ‘TICK-TOCK, TICK-TOCK went the clock’ and ‘SNORE, SNORE went Mrs Bear’.The use of onomatopoeic sounds was brilliant for the kids and was an excellent way to get them talking about the sounds they hear at home and at school.
The illustrations are colourful and eye catching and have much detail.
He goes to different rooms in the house to try and get to sleep but he hears several different noises that keep him awake throughout the night.
Eventually he ends up back into bed and just as he falls asleep, the alarm clock goes off.I think this book is suitable for KS1 children as it has lots of big, bright pictures and little text.
This book will be good to use in several National Curriculum subjects, especially in English.It will make a great story time book at the end of the day to read as a class.
This book is a childhood favourite.
Peace at last is a great story for cross curriculum work for maths, english, science, geography, pshe and art.
The book has lovely big pictures and not too many words on each page wgich is good for children as they are not bombared with to many words and being put off.
This book is great for being used as a story bag too!
I can not fidn any faults with this book and that why I think it will be a great resource in the classroom.
I enjoy reading Jill Murphy books to my son at night he always joins in because the repetition of the book but the imagery is nicely done, my son always laughs at the bags under daddy bears eyes as the night goes on! The book involves every day items that children can relate to this especially helpful to my 2 year old son who is learning to recognise letters. Good for EYEFS and KS1. The only thing I would say the ending feels a little cut short so maybe as a teacher youget the children to think of alternative endings.
