https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/101267.Mistress_Pat
The reader must unfortunately spend quite a bit of time missing his presence in the story, and the very structure of the book makes it obvious that Pat will continue her blindness for an absurdly long time.Fortunately, Judy Plum has not gone anywhere, and her lively presence at Silver Bush receives the additional spark provided by a foil: one Josiah Tillytuck, whose tall tales and cornball personality fit right into Judy's kitchen and bring out the more fiery sides of her personality.
It's not a bad thing necessarily, just a distraction from the larger story (the doomed love affair of a woman and a house).
3. I maybe probably should caveat this because I might just be bitter because I didn't come from a family of stories or heirlooms or houses.
Even her "happy ending" with Hilary felt more like the decision of a desperate woman with no other real options open to her.And, yes, ultimately I know that she does love Jingles and that there is lots of support in the text for her ultimate declaration of love.

Pat continues her opposition to change but as life marches on change is inevitable.
Pat remains much the same through out this book as she was in the last.
Although the events of the last couple years of the story do see her mature some.
Again I found the character of May Binnie to exist for no other reason than to torment Pat. While I do wish the story continued, I found the beginning of the book to be rather slow and drawn out.
The book is divided into years, each section getting smaller.
My least favorite of all of the L.M. Montgomery books. I like Pat okay in Pat of Silver Bush, but I want to hit her over the head repeatedly in this book. Cuddles and Jingle are my favorite characters, and we don't get enough of either of them, just lots of annoying Pat.
2.5 stars. RTC?
5 Stars
But I wanted to talk about how I felt after reading it, so I wrote some bits and pieces in my journal-diary which I will share here:"I feel a lot like Patricia Gardiner; I can fully understand her.
(I suppose I was talking about how she dislikes change.) But like in all books, she is rather pretty, and her true love comes for her in the end.
Life is no fairytale, but life can be made pleasant."Now, after reading this book again, I feel mostly the same, except I don't grudge Pat her beauty or her true love.
In the beginning I found it slow-going and tedious, I felt it was mainly a repetition of the same theme we already learned in the first book: Pat doesn't like change.
A lot of people seem to find Pat an annoying character, and I can easily see how someone would feel that way - and I'm not sure how good it is to write a heroine whose only driving force is her resistance to change, it makes her too passive in the story.
The issue of flimsy characters persists from the last book, though there is a good solid core of well written people, namely Pat herself, Judy Plum, Cuddles/Rae, and Tillytuck.
Everybody else had no life in them apart from their interactions with these characters.I found it harder and harder to relate to Pat's passionate attachment to her house...
She acts like the scales have fallen from her eyes and she now realizes she loves him, but wouldn't that choice have been more meaningful if life hadn't beaten her into the state of having no other option?
Yet I read on, straight through Judy's jargon, cat prose, weather whimsy, and years of change.
I felt tearful at the aging of Judy and McGinty, mad at Mae Binnie's cheapness of soul, charmed by Jingle's loyalty, at home in Judy's kitchen, delighted by Silver Bush.
At one point Tillytuck, your hired hand, states that "it's a great thing to be understood." And he was right.
So Mistress Pat despite your quirks and whimsy and roundabout story ways, I liked you.
I think I even understood you a little.
Perhaps there is a bit o' magic at Silver Bush.
And Silver Bush is no exception to this rule."Mistress Pat" is a rather slow book.
It takes place over many years and simply documents the many changes that occur at Silver Bush.
The many changes that makes Pat's life unbearably hard.
Minor catastrophes and small tragedies haunt Silver Bush, souring the life for Pat and the people she loves.
While all of Pat's choices in life has been made in order to protect Silver Bush, she suddenly wonders if perhaps she was striving for the wrong thing.
I was going to SCREAM if I heard "Silver Bush" one more time!
In changing times when people were snubbing the old delights of hospitality, doing less at home and eating more store-bought food, just the precursor to our lifestyle today, Silver Bush, under the leadership of Pat and Judy Plum, offered lovely, old-fashioned comfort and pleasure for their guests.
That’s something many people are sorely missing today—a house that feels like home.The book is divided into large chapters that detail each year of life at Silver Bush after Pat is twenty, and each chapter has a section that acts as a chapter within the chapter.
Having not been overly impressed with Pat of Silver Bush, why did I read the continuation?
(hide spoiler)] Her father, though called "Master of Silver Bush" repeatedly, opts out and lets Pat do as she likes.
Or perhaps...she was just...farr too "attached" to brother Sid?(view spoiler)[ We are led to believe for several chapters that at long last we are to see the back of silly, fake-Irish spouting Judy, but in the end that relief is not forthcoming.
(hide spoiler)]Pat continues to play fast and loose with her many admirers, though by the end of the book she is almost 30.
'How life grew around changes until they became a part of it and were changes no more.' Pat has to experience this and so do we.(view spoiler)[The end for good old Judy gives us one of the best perspectives about death I've come across in a story.
(hide spoiler)]Since life's messages can dawn on us in simple insights from the blue, that's how a lot of the book is structured, so I'll finish with a few very brief observations.* Courtships can take as short as Rae's (three days) or as long as Pat and Hilary's (20+ years).
I don't believe that people "can't help it" and have just "got" to be the way they are, and every girl is only "meant" for one particular boy but she takes years of breaking hearts to realize that.I think even Montgomery realizes that the fatalism doesn't always apply, since her characters grow and learn.
Some people seem to think her books are too sweet and unrealistic.
But the characters have tragedies, deal with the death of both old and young, financial reverses, foolish errors, and even the little trials that nit-pick at one's peace day after day, etc.
Pat herself is full of fancy not much different from Anne's.
I often dream of Anne, Emily, and Pat meeting each other!
I'm sure they would love each other.While it certainly isn't the most uplifting of LMM's books, it is sympathetic to the part of me that craves a 'simple' life of domestic activities, nature, and companionship, and, when I emerge from it, I have an increased appreciation for what's around me.The long list of Pat's rejected suitors does get a bit tiresome and unrealistic.
I'm sure the men wouldn't have continued to attend her if she was so aloof.
I liked it better than Pat of Silver Bush, but you would have to read both books.
The only thing I couldn't understand was the almost complete absence of Hilary.
I found it amusing that the book was published in 1935, yet it actually ends sometime in the early 40's when WWII would be happening, but Maude couldn't imagine that another horrible war would follow the first world war and so the absence of war news in the book is a little strange.
Like an alternate reality.
Now that I am finished with the book, I am glad things are squared away with Pat, but I am really missing Judy!
i'm in the opposite camp, it seems, from lots of readers posting on this site, in the sense that i really disliked pat in the first book, but found her a bit more tolerable and interesting in this sequel.
although maybe it's just that i knew what to expect?
or that i'm more willing to accept the sort of behaviour in adults that i find tedious and obnoxious in children.
it will never rank among the best of l.m. montgomery's work, but i'm awfully glad i read it and it certainly hit the spot.
I devoured this book after reading the first one. Great characters and once again, I fell in love with Silver Bush and its environs and wanted to move there immediately. I'd love to visit P.E.I. someday. I did feel rather frustrated with Pat at times, as she clung so tenaciously to Silver Bush...but I understood her feelings, too. It's a shame it took such catastrophes for her feelings and desires to undergo a transformation.I felt very domestic after finishing, and immediately went to the kitchen to spend the afternoon baking a Lemon Cream Cake.
Beautiful, elfinly magical in the true Montgomery fashion in which she sucks you in into the real beauty of P.E.Island - it is about the love of home, and how change is essential, but how you will always have the memories of the times past. It made me cry a bit, as it is so close to my situation. The right books always come to me at the right time. Thank you :)
i really want to like this book, but it spent 350 pages hitting me over the head with depression, and then dropped the two worst possible scenarios in the last two chapters. seriously, lmm? i guess the end redeemed it all somewhat, but for an lmm book, getting there was sometimes more painful that it should have been.
Pat seems so much more "real" than Anne or Emily. She isn't a budding writer, she loses so much, and actually gets married in her 30's! I find it interesting that she's the only one of LMM's heroines that waits as long as she herself did to get married. Oh, Jingle! Thank Goodness you came and rescued her in the nick of time. I've never hated a character as much as May Binnie. How dare she!
this was my cozy before-bed book for a really long time.
in a really cozy and good familiar way.
m. montgomery novel for me to read, which was sort of a big deal.
m. montgomery novel i read.
and then i just wasn't ready to have read them all until this year.anyway, as i said, cozy and familiar, very nice, loved it.
and then the denouement from there was SO annoying and troubling.
or they start out interesting, but then as soon as romance becomes part of it, they get boring and annoying.
m. montgomery novel down with a very upset look on my face.
Pat of Silver Bush and Mistress Pat are two of my favourite books by L.M Montgomery, and although there are bits in both books that I'm not fond of, I find Pat to be an engaging heroine.
It's nice to see more of Cuddles in this book, and as I really liked Jingle as a character, I do wish he'd gotten more of a part in this book.
There's a reason L.M Montgomery is one of my favourite authors of all time, and that is because her characters actually live when you read about them.
I finished Pat of Silver Bush last night and immediately picked up the sequel...and didn't put it down until 1am, at which time I realized I couldn't finish the whole book in one night. Not at my age.Finished it the other day. I got really frustrated with this book - I don't want to wait eleven years for my hero! I KNEW LMM was going to make me wait until the last few pages!!! I got really frustrated with Pat - I mean, come on, she confused her love for the hero with love for a HOUSE. For ELEVEN YEARS.
Definitely not L.M. Montgomery's best work.
But still beautiful.
I find this one to be much more full of sadness than any of her other works.
The end was bittersweet.
No spoilers, but why did so much happen to Pat?
Pat did get on my nerves a bit.
I love my home, but she practically worshiped hers.
Though I couldn't help feeling for her, as so much change did come into her life, and most of it not good.
The Pat books just weren't my favorite of Montgomery's works.
Still enjoyable, but not becoming favorites of mine.
This series was a bit of letdown.
Just like the prequel, it is a bit like all the other LM Montgomery books. I could basically tell you how t would end from the start but she does such a beautiful job getting you thee everytime I don't mind knowing the ending. She can definitely create a beautiful setting and then work a situation in such a way that makes you feel utterly distraught and hopeless for the character. I love that. Even if it isn't her best or most original, it is still LM Montgomery which means it is deliciously good!
WHAT'S UP WITH PAT OF THE BUSH? IS IT BAD?NOT BAD, BUT THE CHARACTER IS STUBBORN AND ANNOYING. SHE HATES CHANGE SO SHE LIVES WITH HER FAMILY UNTIL SHE'S LIKE 30 AND HER HOUSE BURNS DOWN.I REREAD PAT OF SILVER BUSH AND MISTRESS PAT EVERY FEW YEARS BECAUSE I LIKE SOME OF THE SUPPORTING CHARACTERS, BUT PAT IS A CAILURE WEIRDO AND THE LOLMANCE IS NOT GRATE.I DIDN'T LIKE IT. PAT IS BASICALLY ME SO I LOATHE HER.I KNOW I READ IT BUT I HAVE NO MEMORY OF WHAT HAPPENED AT ALL.
