https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/591705.Studies_in_Classic_American_Literature
More about D.H. Lawrence than Classic American Literature.
He dissects Whitman's "Leaves of Grass" not for its literary values, but for the ethical principles it embodies which can be practically applied to life.
He perceptively identifies one of the key aspects of this early American fiction -- the dark story carefully hidden beneath the work's relatively conventional surface.
Too bad he didn't also tackle Twain's "Huckleberry Finn" and somehow missed Emily Dickinson, whose work is both a prime exemplar of his literary theory and complicates it to no end.
Reading Lawrence's critical views is like standing in the middleof a cherished old building as a wrecking ball comes hurlingthrough. You sort of want to weep to see all those famous wallsbeing knocked away, but the noise is so consuming, and then the clearing made is breath-taking, ravishing, life-affirming.Just watch out for debris.
and myself, I like a bit of perfect paste in a perfect setting, so long as I am not fooled by pretence of reality.
Lake Champlain again.As to Nathaniel Hawthorne, he concludes: It is a marvellous allegory.
But when he ceases to be American, when he forgets all audience, and gives us his sheer apprehension of the world, then he is wonderful, his book commands a stillness in the soul, an awe.Lawrence made me see how much I miss when I read.
Perhaps the books I like least are those where the only good parts are not so obvious.
I suppose one might call this a neopagan, and specifically Dionysian, critique of American bourgeois hopes and conventions.
It veers occasionally into misogyny and racism -- while also attacking hidden forms of both in American culture -- and often descends into general abyss-gazing.
Politically, it is unsettling because parts of it could be appropriated just as easily by ultramontanism, the New Left, anticolonialism, and fascism -- almost anyone opposed to liberalism, really -- but I'd say that Lawrence is actually antipolitical and antieconomic.
He is urging an antipolitical and antieconomic understanding of national and personal identity.
Source of the oft-quoted the essential American soul is hard, isolate, stoic, and a killer.The essence of American literature, according to Lawrence, is the conflict between puritan ideals and violent impulse.
This is Whitman's message of American democracy.The true democracy, where soul meets soul, in the open road.
If it be a great soul, it will be worshipped in the road.The love of man and woman: a recognition of souls, and a communion of worship.
A glad recognition of souls, and a gladder worship of great and greater souls, because they are the only riches.Love, and Merging, brought Whitman to the Edge of Death!
Lawrence is fiercely iconoclastic, uprooting American platitudes and hypocrisies to plant his own visions of psycho-sexual blood struggles.
For anyone approaching literary theory and criticism post-Roland Barthes (who so famously declared "the death of the author") this collection might be a bit unsettling.
Those of us who have been taught to separate the author from the work, to critique the work and not the person, might take issue with some of what Lawrence does here, particularly as he is, for the most part, highly critical of almost all of these "pillars" of the American literary tradition (with the exception of perhaps Melville and Whitman, whom Lawrence seems to appreciate).
Took me nearly a month to finish this tripe.While Lawrence does have a few interesting things to say, much of this book is itinerant rambling.
He tries to establish the thread of a theme throughout American literature that "knowing" a thing is equivalent to killing it, but after the first few chapters, he seems to frequently forget his Grand Unifying Theme only to bring it up sporadically thereafter.I understand there is a critical edition that includes various drafts of the writings – I can't in good conscience call these "essays" – in this book, including four versions of the Whitman piece (the finished version and three drafts).
This book definitely deserves four stars, Lawrence nails the American psyche, his analysis is advant-garde, he's a genius blah blah blah I'm not adding anything that hasn't already been said. HOWEVER, Five stars is ludicrous! Am I the only one who read the Hawthorne Chapter? That was the rantings of a misogynist lunatic. It almost discredits the whole work for me. Maybe I read it wrong, I don't know, but it left me with a foul impression of Lawrence.
In spots an entertaining read, but seriously marred by racism (and sexism), particularly in the chapter on Whitman. Mostly useful as a historical document.
There's a casual and intelligent flow to his remarks and, although I think some of his criticisms are absolutely bizarre, there's a charming irreverence for the very serious books he analyses."No one can be more clownish, more clumsy and sententiously in bad taste, than Herman Melville, even in a great book like Moby-Dick.
He preaches and holds forth because he's not sure of himself.
And he holds forth, often, so amateurishly.The artist was so much greater than the man.
So hopelessly au grand sérieux, you feel like saying: Good God, what does it matter?
Let life be what it likes.
I read this book in high school, and absolutely loved it. Lawrence's analyses of American literature, especially the works of early American writers, really impressed me as a young reader. His observations of the hypocrisy inherent in our Pilgrim-ish literature and in some of our later as well are written in a succinct and a bit sarcastic manner, and I think most readers will enjoy this book immensely!!
An excellent, piercing, perceptive collection, aside from a perplexingly stupid essay on The Scarlet Letter, where Lawrence's idiocies about women cloud his understanding of the text. The pieces on Fenimore Cooper are especially great - (though) I almost forgot how much work slogging through JFC's novels actually was.
An entertaining and, at times, insightful read. However, Lawrence's three page misogynistic rant during the Hawthorne section put a serious damper on my reading experience.I can certainly see the influence this work had on Toni Morrison's Playing in the Dark.
One of the best introductions to American literature.
Utter rubbish -ramblings with no framework, measures, theme, comparatives and so on - in the end it lacked a methodology or critical system that offered measures and evaluations of historic literature against some standard.
It came across as floating emotional opinion essays with little consistent substance.
His opinions were also reflexive and volatile and may largely depend on what he did the night before.What is also missing is an amalgamating summation or conclusion that ties it all together.
O mais interessante em "Estudos sobre a literatura clássica americana" é o estilo de D. H. Lawrence, muitas vezes (quase sempre) irônico, sem ser pedante e sempre justificando o seu ponto de vista. É uma visão atual, clara, visando a perceber as contradições e os acertos na então nascente literatura norte-americana. É interessante a ênfase de D. H. Lawrence no respeito ao Espírito Santo, aqui traduzido como o respeito a si próprio, corpo e alma, já que a mente é outra coisa diferente.
You'll probably never read such an entertaining, unique, and amusing book of literary essays. Exclamation points!
I liked reading Studies in Classic American Literature by D.H. Lawrence, and I found it full of interesting quotes.My favorite is certainly one present at the beginning of the book, where Lawrence talks about new experiences.
"The world fears a new experience more than it fears anything.
it hurts horribly."My favorite chapter is the one dedicated to Herman Melville's 'Moby Dick'.
And again in this chapter, there's a quote I had to highlight.
"What do you think of the ship Pequod, the ship of the soul of an American?
Couldn't help but thinking of the present situation...
An artist is usually a damned liar, but his art, if it be art, will tell you the truth of his day.
Truth lives from day to day, and the marvellous Plato of yesterday is chiefly bosh today.The old American artists were hopeless liars.
Which is partly your fault for expecting it.He didn't come in search of freedom of worship.
England had more freedom of worship in the year 1700 than America had.
Why if I say anything that displeases them, the free mob will lynch me, and that's my freedom.
STUDIES IN CLASSIC AMERICAN LITERATURE. (1923). D. H. Lawrence. **. This is a collection of bogus criticism from Lawrence which really doesn’t critique the works, but does critique the men behind the works. D. H. approaches each author with an attitude, and searches the output of a specific author until he finds grist for his mill. On top of it all, it is written in the style of a circus barker – maybe even a circus seal, also a barker. D. H.’s avowed purpose in writing these pieces was to “save
In his introduction, he opines: “Two bodies of modern literature seem to me to have come to a real verge, the Russians and the Americans...The great difference between the extreme Russians and extreme Americans lies in the fact that the Russians are explicit and hate eloquence and symbols, seeing in those only subterfuge, whereas the Americans refuse everything explicit and always put up a sort of double meaning.
He then proceeds in eleven subsequent essays to tear into the various works of eight different authors.
Discuss.D.H. Lawrence takes this theme, and, like an over-caffeinated undergrad scribbling out knowledge, opinions and some analysis, gives us several blue books worth of genius and gibberish.Lawrence completists or those who like their entertainment with a literary, linguistic tinge, perhaps a bit more style than substance – like, say, Kenneth Rexroth reading, with saxophone accompaniment, Thou Shalt Not Kill or Vachel Lindsay thrumming through The Congo – will likely have an enjoyable few hours with the swoop and slap of this extended Speaker’s Corner rant.
Lawrence stops with Whitman, leaving Hemingway, Faulkner, Pynchon, Kerouac, O’Connor and other twentieth century American cows peacefully awaiting evisceration from the next foreign observer with a sharp mind and mischievous pen.A for enthusiasm and originality, Mr. Lawrence, but see me in my office about using your gifts in a sphere other than literary criticism.
I credit this book with showing me where to draw the line.
Lawrence is able to show the inconsistencies of the American insistence on freedom and its tendency to conformity, and able, even more brilliantly, to make me giggle, laugh, and shout "Oh no he didn't!?" like the audience at a rap battle watching someone lyrically and brilliantly dissect his opponent.
While this book won't diminish my love for the authors or stories of its criticism, it certainly has opened my eyes and allowed me to see them with a more critical eye.
D.H. Lawrence, besides being a fantastic writer, is also a riot.
It’s not my affair to sum it up.
Just now it’s a cup of tea.
Hand me the sugar.” Also this interesting little tidbit about those who go west/Americans in genera:“Men are free when they are obeying some deep, inward voice of religious belief.
Obeying from within.
Men are free when they belong to a living, organic, believing community, active in fulfilling some unfulfilled, perhaps unrealized purpose.
Not when they are escaping to some wild west.
The most unfree souls go west, and shout of freedom.”
Probably the most serious-minded penetration into the American creative consciousness. Even when Lawrence is wrong-headed he brings more depth to his subject than any of his predecessors. This a very far-reaching work. Kind of a post WWI, Nietzsche, Freud, Jung, thing going on here but immensely creative in its own right. This effectively enshrined "Moby Dick" as a serious work. Fascinating and condescending views on Whitman and Poe. Brutal and righteous take-down of Benjamin Franklin. Engrossing assessment of Fennimore-Coopers unconscious meanings. Emerson is treated disparagingly.
"Always the same. The deliberate consciousness of Americans so fair and smooth-spoken, and the under-consciousness so devilish. Destroy! destroy! destroy! hums the under-consciousness. Love and produce! Love and produce! cackles the upper consciousness. And the world hears only the Love-and-produce cackle. Refuses to hear the hum of destruction under-neath. Until such time as it will have to hear. The American has got to destroy. It is his destiny."
I just finished re-reading this for the first time in 20 years, and got much more out of it. Lawrence has a great sense of sarcasm that I didn't catch the first time around. Plus, there is a lot of overlap between each essay, which makes it worth reading the entire book. His essays on Melville and Whitman, in particular, are gems.
Phenomenal short work that, in its own literary sense and style, captures the spirit of 18th/19th Century American writers. Lawrence's style of writing in this work influenced my own style of writing.
Não me lembro da última vez que li tantas cacetadas num livro só. Tantas que chega uma hora que a análise fica enfadonha, na medida em que ele reitera sem cansaço sua tese de que a literatura norte-americana se perdeu num idealismo bobo e sem fim.
Lawrence is *very* funny here. If he hadn't spent his whole life bogged down in cloying, didactic novels, he might have been remembered for his criticism, which is merciless, arbitrary, and hilarious.
