https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/817285.Battle
An impressive piece of military history told in the most human of terms.Much of the author's art is the ability to present the big (and I mean big) picture - from Hitler to Eisenhower - while presenting a broad range of perspectives - both axis and allied, from individual soldiers (and civilians) to sergeants, junior officers, and commanders of all types.
It's an impressive example of what history can be, when a lot of hard work is pieced together into a coherent and digestible story that, while presenting an extraordinary amount of factual information, not only informs and enlightens but entertains.
A book about the Battle of the Bulge, that reads like a movie script.This book, written in 1959, gives a broad overview of the actions that took place during the Battle of the Bulge. It is somehow a little one sided account of various witnesses (American and Belgian) about the battles but skips the details about the siege of Bastogne. Therefore, a good introduction to the battle, fast pacing and enjoyable, but will lack the detail that a more profound WWII buff reader will require.
Like the battle itself, this book could have been a disaster.
Yet, Toland does a great job of making this confusing and chaotic battle understandable by focusing on the personal stories of the soldier.
His writting style is economic as he tells heart wrenching, sometimes funny and incredible stories of how close this battle could have come to wiping out the gains the Allies had achieved since Normandy.
The maps are very good and the short paragraphs detailing the action along the lines made it easy for the reader to create the mental picture of the battle.
Nice try, Hitler- NUTS to you!
This is a VERY detailed account of the battle, which can be overwhelming to a casual reader.
I ended up getting lost trying to figure out who was where at what time because flipping back and forth to the maps got tedious after a while.
Eventually, I just had to power through it to get a general feel for the battle.
After some more WWII reading, I may come back to this book a second time.With so many characters and locations to keep straight, I recommend reading this book rather quickly (which I had trouble doing).
What a great way to ring in the new year, by finishing a good book.
It is a very fitting time to read this since the Battle of the Bulge was Christmas 1944 into the new year 1945.
John Toland is one of my favorite authors due to his research and thorough discussion of the historical events.
I have read of the Bulge in many histories but this is my first book exclusively to the Bulge.
The story discusses the strategic blunder of moving prime German Panzer units out from the protection of the German Western wall and the last gasp of the Luftwaffe's surpise attack.
I started reading Battle: The Story of the Bulge when playing a board game called Tigers in the Mist.
Battle: The Story of the Bulge tells the story of Hitler’s last shot at a major offensive, the unpreparedness of the Allies, the horrendous realities of traffic tie-ups in war, the difficulties of communication, and the incredible frustrations and superhuman efforts made by the soldiers in the field when their commanding officers were often misinformed, uninformed, or insufferably insensitive to situational realities.
This was the first book I ever read on the so-called Battle of the Bulge, and I remember liking it very much. It was originally published in 1959 and I bet I read a library edition copy of that vintage, and for it's era, it was excellent. Still makes a good read today! Recommended as an introduction to this complex campaign.
Great stories, but it was very hard to follow the big picture. It is, however, a great way to get a feel for what happened on the ground during the battle of the bulge. Very interesting and descriptive.
Soldiers on the allied side often showed ruthlessness and indifference to human life that was the equal of the German attrocities with which we are all so familiar.This is still another account of the War in Europe that reveals that Bradley, not Patton, was driven by pettiness and personal ambition into conflicts with Montgomery.
So has his coddling relationship with the press.Eisenhower, once again, is show as a far less able commander and one whose oranizational skills were mediocre at best.What I learned about the suffering that men were subjected to because of poor leadership was not really new but far more striking.Toland is superb at describing the larger military actions while interspersing them with revealing and heart-wrenching individual experiences.
Great book, easy and quick to read. It is more anecdotal that based on the official primary sources. The history of the battle is there, but it is overshadow by the stories of the people in the battle and affected by it, like the Luxembourg housewife who hid a American from the Germans, all the while her son is serving the German army after being conscripted.
Review originally published at Book of Bogan.Battle is a book about the so-called Battle of the Bulge, a campaign during the Second World War, which was something of a last gasp for the Nazis.
The author takes us down to ground level, sometimes below, and into the lives of the real people who are taking part in this battle, as well as civilians trapped in the firing line.The Ardennes campaign is probably one of the areas of the second world which I know very little, although I have Antony Beevor’s book on my reading pile, somehow this came across my desk before I got to it.
More of a narrative of the battle than a straight historical recounting, Toland's book is nevertheless a great read. I read in the Introduction that his work was originally criticized for being too emotional, but it helps to personalize the conflict. My only criticism is the assumptions Toland makes about his readers. A lot of people know a lot of stuff about World War 2, but Toland skims over some introductory information that could be helpful to a less-informed reader. Still, the book is fantastic for how thorough it was researched and how detailed it can be.
I read this at the same time I was reading The Guns of August.
The parallels between these books and the battles they examine are obvious and have been drawn to the point of exhaustion.
What I will say is that while The Guns of August is a truly amazing book.
Often the figure in Guns feel like the characateurs that history portrays them as, meanwhile battle forces the reader to acknowledge that even someone as detestable as an SS officer is a human with real virtues in addition to their sins.
It seemed realistic and took me to the Battle of the Bulge in a way my grandfather who fought in it would not recount. He barely survived, spent two years recovering in a hospital, and then lived a full and good life which did not include telling many war stories since he left that in the past as much as possible. The dialogue and details all pulled me in despite the fact I typically do not read books of this genre.
Wonderful book! Having recently returned from a trip to Luxemburg and Belgium where I toured many WWII sites, this book was invaluable. This classic work captures firsthand accounts of the Battle of the Bulge and narrates eyewitness accounts of Hitler's last big gamble of the war from the perspective of civilians, the American and German Soldiers as well as those in high command. I wish I had read this book earlier and I recommend it to historians and lovers of Nonfiction alike.Paul
It was okay. The maps were poor in the digital version I read, and thus it was next to impossible to visualize the battle on the ground as described by Toland. Other books provide a far better overview of the battle.That said, there were some compelling stories of the men who fought there.It's worth adding to one's library...but don't stop with this book if you want an idea of what happened. Read a good half dozen.
Good summary on the Battle of the Bulge from an author with a very intense amount of effort put into learning the facts from first hand accounts and other primary sources. Pretty sure this is an abbreviated version of the author's longer Battle of the Bulge book.
This book has some good narrative moments, but it tends to get bogged down when it tries to describe the action in terms of numbered regiments and obscure Belgian place names. The book does a poor job of communicating the big picture. It is probably a bit dated, but may benefit from a second reading.
The Battle is most complete narrative of major world event that I have ever read. As the last of World War Two generation departs forever, this book will remain to show what they suffered. This war history is stark and honest.
Great book! So much detail about The Battle of the Bulge. I am glad this was recommended to me. Worthwhile reading and a must for any historian. Audible reader was pleasant to listen to.
The last great and desperate German offensive in Europe.Great history lesson.
Toland does a masterful job of intertwining big-picture history with stories and vignettes of individual soldiers, infusing a personal touch to what could have been a dry re-hashing of troop movements and statistics. The only reason I didn't give this five stars is because he wasn't able to overcome the natural challenge of moving from one battlefield to another quickly without getting the reader lost. More maps would have helped.
I liked this book. I liked the way it looked at all the people involved, from grunt to general and civilians. The book though made me bummed because a quote in the book from Patton made me realize that the Movie Patton is more of a fictional reenactment that true to fact history. Oh well. Hollywood has done this before and will do it again. That is why I prefer history books to the movie adaptations....I digress.Overall a really good book
BATTLE, The Story of The Bulge by John Toland (1959, First Edition) Battle, by John Toland, was the third in a trilogy of books on WWII’s Battle of the Bulge I recently read. The first was an excellent little book, The Damned Engineers, 1970, by Janice Holt Giles; followed by The Bitter Woods, 1969, by John S. D. Eisenhower. Availability of Toland’s BATTLE is limited and I happened to receive a 1st edition published in 1959. The Damned Engineers is limited in scope to mainly the heroic exploits
Eisenhower’s BITTER WOODS gives better and more comprehensive details to the conflict between British General Montgomery and Supreme Commander Dwight Eisenhower, but my edition of Toland’s book was published while Eisenhower was still President, and if the General were to give the gory details to any historian, it is understandable that he’d given them to his historian son.
The end stages of the battle (generally the last three weeks of Jan. 1945) are hardly covered in any detail in Bitter Woods – it’s as though Eisenhower ran out of steam or his publisher made him cut the volume drastically and they were taken from the final chapters.
The sporadic accounts of Germans are either from the perspective of generals (one colonel I believe) or from the experiences of Belgian and Luxembourg citizens or American soldiers.
It's something like 75% American, 10% citizen and 5% German (maybe not quite that skewed, but close) in terms of the sources that actually made the book.Then there's the British thing.
Montgomery is portrayed as a villain by the American sources and though Toland attempts to show that Montgomery's point of view was somewhat justified, he only does this occasionally whereas he lets the American anti-Montgomery stuff pop through constantly.
One such is the battle of the bulge, when the allied forces were further out than could be logistically supported and German forces unexpectedly turned around to strike back, and the allies were surrounded on almost all sides with almost no option but to surrender or be massacred - and yet the commander famously replied "nuts" to the proposal of surrender from the Germans, barely taking the cigar out of his mouth for saying that much calmly, immediately, nonchalantly.
Patton was in Italy and was informed of the bulge and the urgency - and he drove his army in an impossible drive across to the battlefront in Ardennes near Belgian border in time to save the situation, the men, the battle and the war.
It is fitting that I finished this book on the anniversary of D-Day as it was the beginning and the Battle of the Bulge was the end of the Allied invasion and German resistance.While this book is over 50 years old it doesn't matter.
Having read several of Toland's WWII book I believe he is the master of details.
He by no means is a "homer." Not all Germans were evil and not all Americans were good.
I would recommend any of Toland's books.
The only improvement would be to have large war maps handy to be able to follow the battles while you read.
Listened to this one - overall very good, and the Battle of the Bulge is always fascinating.
I found the narrator's tone off when he was reading some of the atrocities; he sounded sort of overly into it or aggressive or something, which was weird.
But I don't think I would have felt that way reading the same words, it was a just a delivery issue.
As in, yes, Nazism is awful, but the individual German soldiers were people, some good, some bad, mostly sometimes good or bad.Well worth the listen/read!
Listened to the audiobook. A good balance of detail and narrative. Kept the pace moving but stopped long enough to give important details. A telling of the battle from the soldier's point of view. Almost all of the book is spent in the fox-holes and tanks of the soldier on the front. Not a lot of grand strategy or macro-scale editorializing. I assume the print book has maps in it... A good atlas of the area is probably still advisable, but as an audiobook without any maps it was still enjoyable.
An interesting account of the Battle of the Bulge fought in the Ardennes forest mid December 1944 to late January 1945. A readable one volume treatment of the battle, more focused on the American perspective although the Germans are not left out. He makes some assumptions in his accounts which is fine if you accept that this is not "pure" military history but rather a collection of individual perspectives and experiences. I would have liked a more comprehensive map coverage at the beginning of the book for reference. Overall, a good level of detail and a good read.
