https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77431.The_Mauritius_Command
The Mauritius Command does not hold the passion of the first three books in Patrick O'Brian 20 volume seafaring series set during the Napoleonic Wars.
Love and its numerous forms, many of which appear in O'Brian's writing, is not a theme as strongly attended to as it was in the previous books.
Fear of failure, not living up to the "manly" expectations of the day, and the burden of command, these are driving forces that move the characters through this well-crafted tale.Certainly Jack and his ship's surgeon/intelligence agent friend Stephen Maturin are still solidly ensconced as our main characters, remaining as the heart and soul through out the series, however minor characters and their needs take hold of the narrative with just as firm a grip.
I do enter upon my rereadings of Patrick O'Brian books with an open mind.
However, at some point, sweeping down upon the blaggardly French under a great press of sail, foreboding the ruin of a tragically flawed officer, or smiling at Aubrey's sweet simplicity, it becomes impossible not to give it every star at my command.Mauritius Command is a particularly cohesive volume, more united in purpose than most, comprising as it does one fictionalized campaign of the Napoleonic Wars.
An intimidating military and political undertaking, requiring Maturin's cunning, Aubrey's nautical genius, and something in which Aubrey has never been tested: facility for high command.Note upon rereading: O'Brian's dry humor has some of its purest moments of expression in this volume.
Half or more of the pleasure comes from partaking in the special friendship between boyish and brave Captain Jack Aubrey and the more intellectual surgeon and spy, Stephen Maturin.
Much of the narrative comes from Stephen’s reflections, which provides a fascinating perspective on the manners and morals of the time, critical views on British imperialism, and much comparing and contrasting of Aubrey with other officers.
For example, at one point Stephen asks Jack whether he can learn anything useful from distant observation of the French ships:“Of course,” said Jack a little impatiently.
"You cannot blame the bull because the frog burst: the bull has no comprehension of the affair"- Patrick O'Brian, The Mauritius CommandThis is my fourth Aubrey/Maturin novel (obviously) and I have yet to read one that I wasn't completely in love with.
- Commodore Aubrey's explanations of figures of speech in the Navy (e.g. the devil)- the general horror of war, even triumph, shown by Dr. MaturinMany of the best lines and best observations are made by Dr. Maturin, which is by design.
It isn't that Captain/Commodore Aubrey is without wit, intelligence, or even genius, but he is a man of action.
The change comes from a shift in focus from the developing friendship between Jack Aubrey and Stephen Maturin, including their romantic entanglements on shore, to a greater portion of the book dedicated to actual naval battles.
I thought Stephen Maturin played a more discreet role than usual here, but still my favorite passages in the novel were a couple of extracts from his private journal where he is analyzing the character of his friend and of fellow captains.I wish I could include some quotes and more details about the sailing, the observations of nature and the secondary characters, but I accidentally erased both the book and my bookmarks from my reader.
O'Brian knows his men intimately by this fourth book, and he is able to let them live on their own, confident, it seems to me, that they will take him where they need to go.In this case, they take him to the Mauritius campaign of 1809-1811.
Apparently The Mauritius Command follows the true campaign faithfully, which makes for a fascinating experience for those who love historical novels, but the real interest for me is -- as always -- the characters.
I thought I would be enjoying these more as I progressed through the series, but alas I am tired of the language and finding that it's no longer fun for me to try to work out what each sentence means.
All the main characters, Aubrey and Maturin included, faded into the background of The Mauritius Command, becoming a kind of landscape upon which the drama of Lord Clonfert played out.
He is also an unabashed liar when it comes to his accomplishments (even suggesting he was present at the killing of a unicorn, using a Narwhal tusk as his evidence), but his vanity quickly undermines his spirit when he's thrust into the shadow of his former shipmate, now commanding officer, Commodore Jack Aubrey.Clonfert is eventually made Post-Captain by the man he sees as his nemesis and is given the frigate HMS Néréide as his command.
In this the fourth episode of his Aubrey-Maturin series, he takes this method to the extreme - his whole book, not only one or two battles, is based on a historical campaign, making for some very dramatic reading.The triumphs and setbacks of a little-known campaign against the French in the Indian Ocean form the basis for the action of this tale.
We find O'Brian's wit and humor throughout, from the somewhat less than idyllic scene of Aubrey at home at the beginning, a fish out of water, through the vicissitudes of the campaign together with Maturin, to a typical O'Brian ending.
Brilliant and tense. I love the way O’Brian uses the texture of his prose to manipulate tension without feeling like he’s manipulating tension.
The fourth novel in this series is yet another masterful telling of seafaring adventure.
This time, Captain Jack Aubrey opens the story at home, absent of a command and anxious to get back to sea once again.
It’s a tough mission and while it runs its course, Aubrey gets to wear the rank of Commodore as he directs the actions of multiple ships during the various engagements.
All does not go smoothly of course, much of which is due to the travails of two of his own Captains.Another enjoyable read in this lengthy series.
We see them for all of a page and a half, but we get a sense of their personalities and relationships before they touch off another heart-pounding ship-to-ship action.Finally, O’Brian’s narrative voice, which improves exponentially with each book, reaches the pinnacle of playfulness in this one, with lines like “Stephen looked at his watch, uttered a low howl, and set off at a shambling run for the harbor, where the Pearl of the Mascarenes, the fastest aviso in the island, lay champing at her buoy.”The storyline is based on a real action—the actual Mauritius Campaign of 1809-1811, only with Sir Josias Rowley as commodore instead of Jack Aubrey.
I have been so absorbed in these books that I keep forgetting to take time to review them in turn - aside from discussions and over-excited bouncing with mutual online friends who already know the series, that is.I love this series so much, for all the reasons I outlined in Master & Commander - the depth and breadth of O'Brian's knowledge and research is outstanding, breathtaking and yet the level of writing mastery he shows in his portrayal of character and plot makes these books utterly brilliant, as well as educational and utterly steeped in the sense of period.Jack Aubrey and Stephen Maturin are thoroughly engaging as characters, opposites and yet with a strong bond of friendship.
Less sailing details then the first few outings & for that Im grateful as each voyage & battle is a lot smoother.
Dr Maturin & Commodore Aubrey as always steal the show.
As the title tells us....
There are plenty of sea battles & quite a few reversible’s as the Royal Navy doesn’t always triumph.....
Also land battles as the lobsters (redcoats) storm the islands garrison & forts along with a bit of politicking from the good Doctor amongst the local populous.
A welcome continuation of a very good series which is not at all dated.
The connecting thread is the naval career of a John-Bull archetype, Captain Jack Aubrey, in the company of his best friend, ship's surgeon and an Admiralty spy, the cerebral, physically Gollum-like Stephen Maturin, obsessed with the study of nature and physiology, and woefully unlucky in love.
The ship, as it's shaped to Jack's sailing and fighting tastes, usually becomes one of the story's characters, whereby Jack always wants to take an enemy or privateer because therein lies his fortune: spoils and booty.
Though English, his pseudonym is Irish, and he enjoys a little irony.Where the books soar is when the ships sail.
Another fine Aubrey/Maturin story.
Every bit as good as the others.
This time Aubrey is a temporary Commodore and in charge of a small squadron of ships.
He must confront a skilled French enemy operating out of Mauritius.
The enemy is attacking and capturing British ships upon cargo routes from India to Britain.
The islands of Mauritius are strategically placed to capture a wealth of British plunder.
Bonaparte's Navy is making good use of the advantage.
The Royal Navy is intent on eliminating this French advantage.
What follows is some strategic confrontations.
'Surprise', Captain Jack Aubrey finally had the chance to marry his beloved and settle down into a little country cottage.
Jack leaps at the chance, both to return to the profession he loves and to get away from his hectoring mother-in-law and lumpish twin infants.
Jack is outgunned and outmanned, and several of the captains under his command are almost worse than useless.
But I was so glad to read about Stephen's depressed, almost viciously insightful thoughts on the people around him (and his deeply mistaken ideas of what was going on with the navy) and Jack's own terrible jokes and tireless, fearless action.
Jack is commodore in a multi-ship campaign to seize Mauritius from the French.
As with all these books so far, Jack has new command challenges, one of his subordinates is mysterious and troubling, and Stephen vacillates between urbane diplomacy, biological nerd out, and bitter invective.
In this book, the "plot" is essentially the military campaign, battle by battle, but O'Brian seems unconcerned with treating it as such, leaving climactic battles between chapters (or in the hands of minor characters), and instead focusing on Jack wondering about his vegetable garden or Stephen wondering about Jack wondering about his vegetable garden.
I love this entire series.
I'm sold on it regardless what happens.
I was a little surprised to see Aubrey in the position of Commodore so early (relatively speaking, from my perspective) in his career.
I guess, knowing how long the series is in total, I expected him to putter around as a post captain for a while before getting this kind of promotion.
But, of course, O'Brian likely didn't know how long the series would be, and it's very likely that I'm ignorant about how these kinds of promotions—even temporary ones—come about.
What's not to love?
Meanwhile, Dr. Maturin, in his capacity as ship's surgeon, accomplishes some astonishing medical derring-do; in his capacity as secret agent, helps turn the tide of the action against the French; in his capacity as observer of human nature finds himself surprised to be mistaken in his judgment of his friend Jack Aubrey; and in his capacity as naturalist, happily identifies scores of unusual birds, beetles, and other species around the island of Mauritius.
As I continue through this series, I am waiting for the installments to get worse--tired, repetitive, or simply dull, but that hasn't happened.
I remain utterly and happily addicted to this terrific series.
I have a friend who describes Patrick O'Brian as "Jane Austen for boys." I've long since exhausted my first reads of all Jane Austen, so it is nice to have a score or two of new first reads.
Also nice to read what may have been happening on the other side of all that crossed correspondence that drives Austen's domestic plots.I was a bit distracted by some errant misogynistic bits in this novel, though--granted, haven't read 1 or 2 yet, but I didn't feature Jack Aubrey as a character that would harbor such blatant disappointment over ahem, TWINS, even though they were girls.
I continue to love the Aubrey/Maturin series. The Mauritius command excels in further character development by contrasting both Aubrey and Maturin with other captains and medical men in a small fleet commanded by Jack to take on the French. It's exciting, fast-paced, and a great read. A worthy successor to Post Captain and H.M.S. Surprise.
Running off to sea again with Lucky Jack Aubrey and his BFFF (and my imaginary boyfriend) Dr Stephen Maturin has been long overdue, and so it was with an eager hand that I opened The Mauritius Command.
I wasn't disappointed as it turned out to be as rollicking good fun as its predecessors, even if I still don't know my mizen from my masthead.Having married his sweetheart, Sophie, and settled in a long-dreamed for cottage, The Mauritius Command finds Jack Aubrey on land and on half pay.
All of the previous attractions in the series are here--the drama has less to do with the internal lives of the two main characters (apart from some funny domestic stuff in the opening chapters) than with the situation they find themselves in.
In the previous novels, the suspense of the plot was linked to the developing characters.
It only pales in comparison with the opening three novels, which are extremely good.Update.
Having formed his two chief characters in the first novels, he works variations on them in the foils they encounter in subsequent entries in the series.
Especially Stephen Maturian, towards the end when he asks McAdam, fellow physician much given to maladies of the mind, about his own state:  After a long pause he said, "McAdam, you know more about this aspect of medicine than I do: what do you say to a patient with no physical injury, no tangible lesion, who loses all real concern with his life?
Rereading these so far has been a real delight, not just for the experience of reliving the series but also having an eye to the grand narrative that's being built up, page by page, book by book.
Frustratingly, one of the major secondary characters remains a complex cipher throughout--almost painfully realistic and ultimately unknowable.Also frustrating is that the inability of Stephen and Jack to truly understand each other, played for affectionate laughs early in the series, becomes sometimes excruciating as good-hearted and straightforward Jack is incapable of seeing what the reader sees: that Stephen's melancholy in the last book has settled into a deep depression that remains unresolved at the end of the book.
The Mauritius Command, is just that -- a study in command -- and as such, should be required reading for anyone in a position of command and authority.
In this book, the fourth novel of Patrick O'Brian's Aubrey-Maturin series, we see the full maturation of Jack Aubrey in his role of Captain and Commodore leading a squadron of Royal Navy men-of-war in an effort to capture the strategic islands of Mauritius and La Reunion, off of the southeast coast of Africa from Napoleon.
With the exception of the novel's fictional characters, Patrick O'Brian has scrupulously followed and described the real-life historical accounts of this fascinating campaign.
The fourth book in the Aubrey-Maturin series.
The captains under Jack’s command are slightly jealous, but they are motivated primarily by their differing natures, whether harsh taskmasters or eager to please and ineffective.
After some easy victories, helped along by Stephen’s psych-op machinations, a particularly bloody battle ensues.
Defeat looms, but Jack’s pure bulldogged determination turns the tide, until the victory and glory is taken from his grasp by one of his own allies.While I believe that this series really takes off in the next two books, this is a vibrant and thrilling historical novel.
I also missed the Aubrey/Maturin conversations as the two were often apart.
Jack, also being a Commodore, was forced to be more distant to his crew due his rank.
I missed his relationships with his sailors/crew when he was a Captain on a frigate.Still, this had the best quote I have seen so far!Jack: the coffee has a damned odd tasteStephen: this I attribute to the excrement of rats.
Rats have eaten our entire stock; and I take the present brew to be a mixture of the scrapings at the bottom of a sack.Jack: I thought it had a familiar tang
I listened to this story twice and I cannot figure out what I want to say about it.
It is just as well written as the others I listened to and as well narrated, but different.
Jack is elevated to the rank of commodore and is in charge of a fleet of ships trying to capture French ships.
Some new characters are introduced, none of them really stellar, but they have an impact on the story.
It was an interesting study of ship captains and how they treated their crews and how Jack, as the commodore, had to manage them all.
