https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/574054.All_Through_the_Night
Like many books by this author, this novel has an appeal that transcends time. It's been a while since I've read one of these books; now, I realize I was seriously missing out!
A free book, quick read. A bit too saccharine for me- perhaps if I were in my teens it would have been more appealing. Side note: this was NOT the cover on the copy of the book I read!
All minor differences and not usually important ones, but while in retrospect I can see that there is a Christian community at work in this book, it’s all off stage and the heroine hardly interacts with them and never, ever shares her needs or wishes.I’m a misanthropic recluse myself, and have gone through periods of only making it to church once or twice a year, and I *still* would have consulted with a pastor or asked for someone to be put on the prayer list at various points in the heroine’s trials.
But Dale's greatest sorrow was that her beloved was at war--and he might never return.Then Dale's deep faith and gentle love begin to change her self-centered family, and a hope starts to build in her heart that love truly can triumph over all.REVIEW: A sweet, World War II romance in typical Grace Livingston Hill style.
This one bothered me a little.
Grace Livingston Hill's books are very predictable with a usual very sweet, faith filled heroine and a snipish or cutthroat villian, but I enjoy an occasional old-fashioned read of one of her books.
Sweet story.
Dale, the main character was basically a flawless Christian, which could be tiring except that she was written to be so sincere.
She faced her share of struggles and you actually felt bad for her, even though you knew she was always going to make the right decisions.
The character transformation of Corliss and George was a little abrupt, but it was almost relieving.
The romance between David and Dale happened WAY too fast...
Overall, a very sweet, light read with a strong Christian emphasis.
Its like a lemon bar- light and sweet, and you just can't help but enjoy it.
GLH isn't Austen, by any means, but her books are at least put together well- usually. This one seems to have fallen through the editorial cracks, if you will. There were some strange mistakes (is Aunt Blanche Grandma's daughter-in-law or niece? The book claims both, but by the end it's clear she's a d-i-l). There were a few other things like that which aren't deal-breakers, but did make the story hard to follow.Nevertheless, it was an interesting and inspiring story. I hope I can graciously serve those who treat me ill, just like Dale did.
I spent a very pleasant day and a half reading this book off and on between my daily responsibilities! Mrs. Hill has proved herself to be a very engaging and captivating author and I was entranced with the saga from the very beginning. I do so enjoy the fact that she so easily weaves into the narrative the opportunity for her readers to learn of salvation, but it is never forced. This adventure had enough twists and turns that I kept wanting to read "just one more page" and before I knew it the entire book was finished!
A sweet story of the overcoming power of loving kindness.
Okay, so Grace Livingston Hill books are somewhat predictable.
They leave me with a good feeling, not only about the story, but about my faith.This book is about a sweet young girl named Dale.
She is determined to treat them with kindness.I sometimes got the feeling Grace added the romance last minute.
The romance was quick and had very little to do with the story, but still sweet.
I may not always like how quick her romance goes, but she always has both have strong faith.If you need a light read that still has good morals and wonderful faith, Grace Livingstone Hill is a good choice.
All through the Night by Grace Livingston Hill. While you wouldn’t want a steady diet of sugary lightness, once in a while a dose of GLH is just right. You know the plot and how it turns out before the book begins which is just why you are reading it.
