https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/533868.God_in_Search_of_Man
In one paragraph, he summed up my thoughts on the religious experience and the problems with religion in modern society.“It is customary to blame secular science and anti-religious philosophy for the eclipse of religion in modern society.
It would be more honest to blame religion for its own defeats.
Religion declined not because it was refuted, but because it became irrelevant, dull, oppressive, insipid.
When faith is completely replaced by creed, worship by discipline, love by habit; when the crisis of today is ignored because of the splendor of the past; when faith becomes an heirloom rather than a living fountain; when religion speaks only in the name of authority rather than with the voice of compassion--its message becomes meaningless.”
Heschel provides a rich Jewish mystical theology that explores God, God's revelation to man, and man's response to God. Every page contains something stirring and profound.
Calling it a philosophy simply doesn't do justice to what Heschel accomplishes here.Secondly, I was pretty underwhelmed by the middle section on Revelation (even while highlighting many inspiring passages).
As a Christian reading a Jewish theology, I savored Heschel's explanation of the Judaic focus on deeds and action rather than salvation (though all within the unified tapestry of faith), finding it uniquely constructive, moving, and challenging.
This is a book worth reading if you enjoy theology and Jewish or Christian mysticism.
It is not easy to write a review of God in Search of Man: A Philosophy of Judaism, by Abraham Joshua Heschel.
But because it was a library copy, I was not free to highlight the many outstanding quotes I encountered.Much of this book was over my head, but I persisted, and I’m glad I did.
Heschel rebuts the notion that man has made God in his image.2.
Good works are often rewarded with grace that comes from God (which is much like the Eastern Orthodox Christian concept of “synergy”).5.
However, my reaction to the majority of the book can pretty much be summed up in the following image: I should have known that I wasn't going to like the rest of the book when Heschel started talking about the arrogance of science in thinking it can know everything, and then when he continued in talking about how science cannot be used to understand the ineffable and is therefore inappropriate to the full understanding of religion, it just got worse from there.
Heschel mentions how many people in the Bible wonder whether G-d has given over the world into the hands of the wicked, and that the world being a place of sorrow is a common sentiment and how Job was written in part as an answer to the Problem of Evil...but he never actually deals with it himself.
(11)Since religion tends to become self-inflated and to disregard those aspects of reality which are not immediately relevant to dogma and ritual, it is the task of philosophy of religion to place religious understanding in relation to the entire range of human knowledge (12).IT is the desire to reconcile philosophy and science with religion, attempts have often been made not only to prove that there are no conflicts between the doctrines imparted by revelation and the ideas acquired by our own reason, but also that they are intrinsically identical.
"Faith in God is, we repeat, not easily attained. Had it been possible to prove His existence beyond dispute, atheism would have been refuted as an error long ago." Faith is not easy, and neither is this book, but that's a virtue. This isn't simple theology; it's a bit of a slog, though it's divided into short chunks. I don't think I can do justice to it without writing a college term paper, but even when I found myself disagreeing with it, I was forced to challenge my own conception of God and faith.
The jaded skeptic may sense the sublime and grow softer; the religious believer may be reminded of God's wonder; everyone must acknowledge the beauty of the One who asks man, "Where are you?"I can't do this work justice with my own words.
The second, with giving an answer to the question: what is asked of us?"-----Needless to say, I will read this work again.
When faith is completely replaced by creed, worship by discipline, love by habit; when the crisis of today is ignored because of the splendor of the past; when faith becomes an heirloom rather than a living fountain; when religion speaks only in the name of authority rather than with the voice of compassion--its message becomes meaningless."There is much to commend in this book, it is not always easy but I believe it is always profitable.
The holy is the essence, the good is its expression.”However our author is not telling us to send our brains on vacation for he says, “The employment of reason is indispensable to the understanding & worship of God, & religion withers without it.
I'd been warned that this book was hard sledding and that I'd almost surely never make it all the way through.I fought that warning.
But, finally, I've come to terms with the fact that it's true: I'm almost surely never going to pick this back up and I should stop pretending that I'm going to do so.
Because they are fascinating, but, given how they were cobbled into a book, they're also more repetitive than cumulative.I'd give a lot to be able to go back and sit through the lectures they were trying to recapture.
This book, I think, has helped me find my way as a person, as well as a Jew. Although Heschel focuses on Judaism and expects his readers to be observant Jews, I sense that his approach to spirit, action, and the purpose of life has a lot to say to sensitive non-Jews as well (although it’s hard for me to step outside of myself enough to be sure).
The book is certainly a big commitment to the reader: long, repetitious, sometimes abstract.
This holy and sacred sefer (book) poetically and logically portrays the essence and raison d'etre for believing in G-d and the sacredness of being a practicing Jew. No other book that I have ever read elucidated for me the depth and sublime nature of our relationship with G-d, as this one has.Join us at http://philoofreligion.blogspot.com/ for extensive reviews and essays of Rav Heschel’s magnificent work – G-d in Search of Man.
This was a quick read for me. I read it during two overnight shifts. That is my biggest regret with this book. It deserves a slow, close reading and I did not do it justice. Herschel poetically extracts an inherent philosophy from within Judaism. Not only is it philosophically poignant, but it is a truly enjoyable read. I recommend this book for anyone interested in a Hebraic worldview.
I agree with the review from TIME: "subtitled 'A Philosophy of Judaism,' but it speaks to all those for whom the Bible is a holy book."And with The Boston Globe: "One of the most compelling books about being human that has been written in this century."
The depth of Dr. Heschel is overwhelming. He understands the spiritual journey and the Biblical story as no other.
A must read for any studious Christian.
"Religion consists of Gods question and mans answer.
The way to faith is the way of faith.
The way to God is a way of God. Unless God asks the question, all our inquiries are in vain"I have to give this a 4 star rating because at first it felt disjointed.
But this is a minor thing and easily overlooked once you get into the bulk of the book.In this work, Heschel places an emphasis on "two sources of religious thinking: memory and personal insight.
We must rely on our memory and we must strive for fresh insight.
"In the solitude of self-reflection the self may seem to be a fountain of beautiful thoughts and ideals.
Yet thought may be a spell, and ideals may be worn like borrowed diadems.
It is in deeds that man becomes aware of what his life really is, of his power to harm and to hurt, to wreck and to ruin; of his ability to derive joy and to bestow it upon others; to relieve and to increase his own and other people's tensions.
In his deeds man exposes his immanent as well as his suppressed desires, spelling even that which he cannot apprehend.
Such a rich discussion of what Judaism means as a religion and of the relationship of God and humankind.
I actually brought three of the earlier chapters of this book to a philosophy of religion reading group and I think that this book is excellent in its discussion of some primary philosophical issues pertaining to monotheism (obviously Judaism is Heschel's subject matter, but some of the issues apply to the other Abrahamic religions as well).
Heschel concisely presents issues about the religious relationship to nature (and problems with nature worship), negative theology, and more.
It's a long read but profoundly worth it.
To be clear, I am not a theology student, and don't really have too much of a background in studying philosophy and religion. This is not a collection of inspiration nuggets-i.e. Rabbi Harold Kushner's work-but is compelling nonetheless, especially if you've inherited a Jewish or Christian religious background. That being said, the book is dense, and I have the feeling that there is some required reading to do before this one. I just don't know what direction to point you in-any answers?
This book is so very deep in meaning that it requires complete focus and concentration. It really requires more than one reading to be able to absorb everything.I wish that my dictionary had contained many of the religious terms that I did not understand. I found so many universal truths and new ways of looking at things that I have known my entire life.
Man, I don't know. I really, really dislike philosophy, but I really like religion, and the place where those things meet is very hit-or-miss for me. And so that's how this book went: parts of it really resonated with me and I read them quickly, and parts were nonstop ugh-ugh-move-ON. Probably I will buy a copy! The prose is lovely, and there's a lot here.
One of the most beautiful books I've read, and I say this as a Catholic-raised atheist.
This is one of many books by the same rabbi I have read. It seems that everything he wrote is dynamic, relevant, soul inspiring and extremely spiritual! Absolutely a must-have for any library.
[These] only manifest a force of nature, not God."Here Heschel ignores the fact that until very recently in human history (in fact, until the rise of scientific knowledge) forces of nature were assume to be direct actions of God. If he wasn't so intent on assuming a modern framework for the Bible, this would be readily apparent.
The fact that Heschel can claim that those events are overwhelmingly good, however, simply showcases his blindness to history and reality.
I will finish this book, not because I find anything redeeming in it, but simply so that I can say I've read Heschel.
In 2005 verscheen een nieuwe druk van dit klassieke boek over de filosofie van het jodendom.
de Bie. In principe is daar geen verandering in aangebracht, maar wel is de redactie van de tekst aangepast aan eigentijdse lezers.
In de voetnoten zijn ook veranderingen aangebracht, niet meer actuele verwijzingen zijn weggelaten, actuele toegevoegd.
Zo is het boek voor lezers van deze tijd aangepast, terwijl dit standaardwerk van joodse rationele spiritualiteit in zijn waarde is gelaten.
Dan zal dit uiterst waardevolle boek geen problemen meer opleveren.
Het boek kan de religiositeit van joodse en christelijke lezers verdiepen en verrijken.978-90-807300-5-2
I tried reading this book and then put it down.
On my second attempt I had to jump to the later sections of the book.
It felt like the beginning of the book was so esoteric it made little sense to me.
I think the book is difficult at parts to grasp especially for one coming out of a Christian background.
But I feel that it is wildly important for Christians (and probably Jews) to read.
Those that are seriously into the Hebraic roots of Christianity do need to read this book or at least pick away at the later chapters.
Some of it just has to deal with subject matter and writing style that makes it difficult to read in great volume, but much of it is intentional.
Its the first book that I have read that approaches the Jewish faith from a philosophical viewpoint, which made it both unique to me as well as interesting.
What was most fascinating was reading certain discussions Heschel was having, understanding that it was written decades ago, and finding it incredibly prescient for a present times and the relationship between varying schools of thought.
A nice read for someone interested in the area of Judaism or philosophy, but not much beyond that I think.
Membaca buku ini saya tidak menemukan kejutan apa-apa karena memang hal-hal seperti ikhlas/sukarela menjalankan pengabdian kepada Tuhan sering dibicarakan.
Namun yang saya suka adalah buku ini memberikan gaya yang puitis, yang memberikan ruang untuk pembaca memahami secara 'personal'.
Tema-temanya berada seputar bagaimanakah Agama Yahudi berada dan dilaksanakan dengan tiga macam kedalaman, yaitu percaya sepenuh hati, cinta dan sukaria sepenuh hati kepada Tuhan dalam keadaan apapun, dan takjub dan takut hanya kepada Tuhan Pencipta Alam.
KIta tidak akan menemukan ahl-hal negatif seperti curiga dan benci kepada umat lain, atau melebih-lebihkan umat ini lalu merendahkan umat lain.
Mungkin karena penulisnya hidup sezaman dengan Martin Luther King Jr, pejuang HAM dan persamaan hak-hak kulit hitam AS, sehingga tema-tema kebencian tidak ada.
Muitas reflexões sobre a relação homem/Deus, o Deus bíblico e o homem, a fé judaica, o serviço ao outro, o inefável, a liberdade, a prática da boa ação.
O diferencial em relação a outros livros que tratam de espiritualidade é a abordagem mais analítica, mais abrangente, lançando questões que desafiam o senso comum e trazendo possíveis respostas.
Não apresenta um caráter de solucionar as principais questões, mas de gerar um senso de responsabilidade diante do outro e de Deus (mesmo reconhecendo a limitação humana) no terreno das situações cotidianas.
Ou uma responsabilidade humilde.
Excellent book...
but Rabbi Heschel is quite an intellectual.
I read this one first, and enjoyed it, although I can see why the other might be a better choice to read first.This book has a lot of it specifically dealing with the Jewish religion.
I am not Jewish, but Christian.
However, since Christianity has its roots in Judaism, I still found it interesting.
This book actually gave me a much better understanding of Judaism and the deep religious and cultural background it brings.
It helped me identify more with religious Jews.
