https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/102281.The_Big_Time
If you really wanted to change the future, Lieber thought, you would have to go back...again, and again, and again.During “The Change War”, two groups of fighters—directed by shadowy leaders known as the “Spiders” (the West) and the “Snakes” (the East)—fight battles and conduct clandestine operations, both in the future in the past, in order to alter history in their favor.
As we learn of the many changes the “Change War” has wrought on time—including a centuries long Nazi takeover of America and the destruction of the works of Plato—we began to sense the great waste and even greater damage the Spiders and Snakes have wrought.As Bruce, the WWI Tommy, puts it:
Sixteen years earlier, SFWA and Fantasy Grandmaster Fritz Leiber released his wildly fantastic time travel, extra dimensional, Hugo Award winning short novel about – spiders and snakes.These spiders and snakes, though, turn out to be two groups of billion-year-old time travel antagonists who are fighting a vast war to make subtle changes along parallel time tracks.
Poul Anderson would borrow some themes in his 1965 SF novel The Corridors of Time.Peter Gabriel’s hit tune “Big Time” from 1986 really has nothing to do with Fritz Leiber or time travel, but the title made me think of it and I sang along while I read.A must read for classic SF/F fans.
It's actually referring to the field of battle.)So, this novel is about as far as you can get from modern SF.It's laden heavily with a ton of interesting ideas and alternate reality sets and times thrown at you without explanation or depth, having a very quick progression of plot and and a stage as big as all time and all the spaces of an infinity of universes.If that doesn't blow your mind, then good.
It's fun as hell.I got the impression that Heinlein's "All You Zombies" was a better Time Travel story, with more and deeper exploration of plot and character, but I'm also pretty sure that the two authors were playing with each other.
The half of the book introduces the myriad concepts and terms of The Big Time, and the wounded soldiers narrating the story of their lives (in monologs) and discussing the philosophy and morals of The Change War. The narrator of the book is an Entertainer called Greta Forzane, “twenty-nine and a party girl”.
Given the short length of the book, Fritz Leiber did not have room for much character development and I did not feel like I know them very well.Still, I recommend the book with some reservations for the four reasons mentioned at the beginning of this review.NoteKaren savage is one of the best readers on Librivox.
I remember looking at my Dune and my Stranger in a Strange Land, both hefty novels, and thinking “How could a book of little more than 100 pages be worthy of a Hugo?” And then I dismissed it, even though I liked a lot of Leiber’s other novels and stories.Winner of the fourth Hugo Best Novel in 1958, today it is often seen as a bit of a surprise winner.*In the years since 1958, The Big Time has become one of those books that, alongside Mark Clifton’s winning novel They’d Rather Be Right in 1955, has been questioned as a worthy winner, or at best regarded as ‘just’ a minor winner.

4.0 stars. A brilliantly conceived novel of an eternity spanning "Change War" between two extremely powerful, and extremely mysterious, groups. Arguably Fritz Leiber's best novel. Recommended!! Winner: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1958)Nominee: British Science Fiction Award (Retro) for Best Novel (1958)
THE BIG TIME. (1958). Fritz Leiber. **. Although this novel was the winner of the Hugo Award in 1959, I found it to be almost impossible to follow. In general, it is the story of a shifting array of warriors from a variety of times who are sent both forward and backward in time to fight battles that will change the course of history. The warriors are divided into two different camps, the Spiders and the Snakes. They were snatched from battles of their times just before they were killed and then
In general, it is the story of a shifting array of warriors from a variety of times who are sent both forward and backward in time to fight battles that will change the course of history.
They were snatched from battles of their times just before they were killed and then recruited into these respective armies.
I had trouble following the thread of the story, and, after a while stopped caring.
According to the publishers, it was several years after the appearence of this novel in two consequetive issues of Galaxy Magazine in 1958 that the book was finally published in hardback.
A strange little book. Written in 1958, it is far ahead of its time stylistically. It reads like a "new wave" novel written by say, Philip Josee Framer, Brunner or even Vonnagut (but he would have taken it much farther). It must be read at least twice (for me three times), to get the gist. At first reading, it was over just when I finally thought I might have gotten on to what was going on.While reading this, I thought, what a great and unique scifi stage play this would make.
(I have an old Ace Books edition that can't be found here, *sigh*, so I added this edition, since it looks the closest to mine.)This is supposed to be one of Leiber's best, with a lot of philosophical stuff in the action...
Standing on its own that's a style Leiber masters to perfection--but I am not too keen on it combined with the story's plot.That's why it left me feeling oddly "Hooray" as well as "Ugh, c'mon!"...
One can just picture Fritz working frantically through a weekend to make deadline on this thing: throwing ideas around with reckless haste, recognizing a line as a clunker and just moving on, abandoning thoughts without revising them out of the manuscript because there's no time for perfection, dammit!
This book is decidedly slap-dash, half-baked and all over the place.
These are meant to be representative of all history, and so (in typical 50s sci-fi fashion) we have an ancient Roman, a Nazi, two extra-terrestrials and a bunch of Brits or Americans from various time periods.
Good on ya Fritz, I hope you got the rent paid on time.
Other critics than I have pointed out that ‘The Big Time’ is as much a play as a novel.
Leiber consciously created a stage, the ‘Place’, with actors coming, going, and making their speeches (sometimes intentionally stilted).
Well, sort of; it can distract from the story at times but consider that it is deliberately ‘stagy.’ The voice makes more sense in that context.It also serves to distance her from the reader.
And, after all, even her vocation in the story is that of an entertainer.The plot is largely a device to talk about big ideas, Time, Space, Existence, etc.
what does he wants to say ?is this a mystery novelis it time travelis it philosophical depute about faith and doubt ,war and peace , what love can make us dowhat the fuck is it !!!!!
i was secretary to this brilliant human being, and this is my personal favorite book of all of his remarkable titles. [the 'change wars' cycle has other goodies too]
I can appreciate the experiment in writing style, but I just couldn't get into this book.
The Big Time is a fairly inscrutable novel, burdened by a concept far too large for its scant 140 pages.
Crediting Leiber with audacity alone, The Big Time is hard to ignore.That single room is "The Place," a brothel that exists outside of space/time, designed to shelter and entertain the soldiers of the eternal war known as "The Big Time." This war is being fought for obscure reasons by two competing factions with no clear ideological distinction.
Perhaps because it moves so fast, perhaps because there are twists enough for a much longer book -- whatever the reason, The Big Time has its charms.
If you want my quick response, without the rambles that make no sense, it's this: This book was just about people in a room, therefore the author should have taken more care in his characters, they were all vacant and unrealistic, completely unbelievable and ultimately completely forgettable, he had too many and developed none of them.
If by a a superior adventure-mystery he means a bunch of characters sitting in a room getting grumpy at each other, and the mystery is solved at the end by the author introducing a machine that wasn't mentioned once throughout the whole book, therefore making the main characters "aha!" moment completely unconnectable too, then yes, this is a SUPERIOR Adventure-Mystery.
A time travel novel where we don't see any time travel, a character study with very little character, and a tense thriller with very little thrill or tension. This book is technically well done - it tells a story efficiently, but that story doesn't seem to have much of a point. It feels more like background material for a better novel.
Man, I couldn't get into this at all. After 40 pages I was still saying, What the f*** are you talking about?
A pretty neat premise with the type of execution that does absolutely nothing for me.You know when you end up going to a place with a friend's or partner's friends from their work, hobby or etc and then you sit there and hear they laughing at their own jokes, making references or speaking terms that only they know what the heck it's about, and etc?So here you have a group of guys from one of the groups (the Spiders) who passes most of the story in a room chatting about what they did or saw the other side (the Snakes) doing.They mention things like the enemy making Britain and the US not enter WWII so Hitler ends up dominating the world.
(One of the possibilities the denizens of the Big Time especially dread is Change Death, which happens when a change in history shifts the moment of your death to a point before that of your "Resurrection".) Making desirable changes to history is not as easy as you might think, because, as Leiber explains in his Introduction to the 1982 Collier edition (the SFBC version of which is the one I read),I assumed a Law of the Conservation of Reality, meaning that the past would resist change (temporal reluctance) and tend to work back quickly into its old course, and you'd have to go back and make many little changes, sometimes over and over again, before you could get a really big change going [.
A long, killing business, believe me.Greta is an entertainer at The Place, a self-enclosed environment outside space and time.
Leiber's father was known for innovative, modernist settings that replaced the creaky Victorian trappings common to Shakespearean productions with the latest innovations in bare stages and quick scene changes.
Characters are accused of scene stealing, and when Bruce makes his impassioned plea for a reconsideration of war itself -- his Mark Antony moment -- Greta is aware that his is "stagewise," i.e., playing to the audience.
The Big Time won the Hugo Award for best novel in 1958, and is the cornerstone of Leiber's Change War series. It's a classic locked-room mystery as well as a fine science fiction novel, but I suspect it would be regarded as being non-feminist today. I had forgotten some of the twists and turns the plot takes and enjoyed listening to this reading very much.
From outside of time, they can plunge in at crucial moments and manipulate events to serve their cause, or they can change things ex post facto, which is why sometimes memory and history don't quite match.All of the story happens in The Place, which is sort of like a cosmic Cheers except that it's run by an Elizabethan bard instead of a washed-up baseball player.
When a life-threatening crisis suddenly occurs in The Place, the cast begins arguing, fighting, and suspecting each other.I love Fritz Leiber and I love his concept of soldiers outside of time influencing the outcome of world events.
Since I was obviously sitting down to a time-travel, any-thing-can-happen smorgasbord, I thought that I'd at least enjoy a madcap adventure story of escapades and feats from heroes and technology across eras.
Sure, there's drama, but so little of it really mattered for the time-travel story.
Sure, there's neat ideas (I especially liked the Change Wind and the concepts around Resurrection), but Leiber doesn't do anything with them.
Then it would have been a thought-provoking, character-driven, time travel book.
The book is from an era where a few neat ideas could take an author a long way; today we expect much more.
At 130 pages, The Big Time by Fritz Leiber is a deceptively short novel, but the concepts delved into were heavy and complicated.
That is probably why it took me two weeks to read 130 pages.
Don’t get me wrong this book was very well written, and that was part of the problem.
The characters are all ESL or from centuries past and although they all (mostly) speak English, it is written in a stilted way that at times make it hard to understand the character interactions.
It was a hard read, and that was unexpected.
What's the point of this?Some people get trapped in a Place in the void, cut off from a time war, with an armed atomic bomb, and they talk a lot about the war and whether it's a good thing or not they're trapped.This short novel is imaginatively staged like a play.
The "Place" is a theater stage, and the characters interact and speak as if they are in a play, which makes for some interesting dialogue, and what comes across as "stilted" - though this didn't bother me.
but yeah, it's soldiers showing up at a brothel for a good time.
I can't think of a better way to start off the Hugo's than this story.
Set in The Piano Bar at the End of the Universe, this is a simple, short book that left me feeling completely decompressed from some of the extremely dense books I've been reading lately while still being excited for science fiction.
The incorporation of strange technologies and aliens reminded me of the feeling I get when I'm watching a good Star Trek episode, one where they aren't trying to technobabble a science-y explanation, but are simply using technology as a rhetorical tool to bring together elements that could not otherwise exist in the same place.
-Instantánea breve e inconexa de algo mayor, pero que tendremos que buscar en otro lugar.- Género.
Greta Forzane trabaja como “animadora” (formalmente, Anfitriona) en un lugar fuera del tiempo y el espacio al que acuden los soldados que luchan en el bando de las Arañas en su guerra eterna contra las Serpientes, buscando recreo y esparcimiento para recuperarse de las consecuencias de su lucha.
La llegada de tres de esos soldados, reclutados en distintos momentos del tiempo y normalmente conocidos como Demonios, generará una situación inesperada y muy peligrosa.
A odd little novel and no mistake. It is bashed full of ideas and is so strange I was not even 100% sure what was going on at several points (which feels appropriate). It could probably do with a lot of more modern polishing but there is something kind of wonderful about it.
