https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34452.Many_Lives_Many_Masters
No details, scientific basis or substance are provided; it was just presented by Dr Weiss as a fact.Page 29 – Catherine states now that she is in the year AD 1756 and her name is Louisa.
In fact, Dr Weiss did not provide any documentary evidence at all in his book to support any of the pasts lives described by Catherine.Page 88 – Dr Weiss writes that he was “driven to pursue the experience with Catherine in a careful, scientific manner” and to look at the information “objectively”.
Half a "Stay Away, Stay Away" Star (The lowest rating I have ever given a book that I completed.)Worst Read of 2015 This was wretched but I had to read it to the end. Believe it or not it was worse than the Celestine Prophecy (remember that one!!)I decided I just have to have a little fun and rewrite the title of this book:" Many Lies, Much Malarky: The Fairy Tale of a Narcissistic Psychiatrist, His Duped Patient, and the Past Life Bullshit That Made the Doctor Millions of Dollars".
It's now one of my favorites; I read it in only two days!
I would totally recommend it to anybody, adults and older kids.
It's about a woman who goes to a therapist to get help with her anxiety and phobia problems.
The therapist (whose point of view the book is told from) then hypnotizes her to find the source of her phobias, and the woman starts telling him accurate details about her past lives!
This book is AMAZING and although it may sound weird at first, it totally changes the way you think about life, and the fear of death.
Please read this book!!
You know, you have to read these things with an open mind, but also with a critical one.
His and Catherine's experiences about past lives are truly fascinating, and no matter how you feel about reincarnation, the lessons from the Masters about how to live are quite universal.
In the end, it all comes down to love, patience, and forgiveness.Even if you are a hardcore athiest or believer in a religion that doesn't allow for past lives, you can still get a lot out of this book about how to treat people and release yourself from fear, both specific and general.
Life or lives That I'll always wonder,Above the hills orShallows downunder.I'll remember you,Regardless of my rebirth.It's the body that goes on in a cycle,For the soul, it's just another miracle.

I have to agree with what all of my friends have said about this book - it is amazing and you cannot put it down - a read it in a few hours - but the information in it will stay with me for a lifetime (and maybe longer!).
Everyone should read this book!
All those times you have felt a connection with people and not known why - or have realized that you have impacted someone's life in an amazing, yet unintentional way - it will all start to be clear to you.
Pretty fascinating read. Is it true? I'd like to think so, but who knows...I recommend it as a feel-good page turner for the spiritually inclined.
But, as I stated in our discussion while I was reading, my interpretation is that the book feels more about him than anything else.
His questions were leading and he seemed more curious about whether he was there in her past life than anything else.
Dr. Weiss asks, "Do you miss him?").In the end we finally find out some of the good messages from the Masters which I thought very good but it was all too little too late to save this one for me.I recommend that readers seek out Journey of Souls: Case Studies of Life Between Lives if interested in this topic.
Dnf therefore no rating. Look, I have no issues with the idea of reincarnation (and yes, even the Bible mentions it) but something about this book just isn't clicking for me. I think it's the mentioning of BC dates, when a concept of BC itself, would have no meaning to someone who lived in those times. I'm not saying it's contrived, but it all feels too 'neat' for me.
واقعا کتاب بسیار جالب و خوبیه و به نظرم میشه به این روانپزشک راجع به صحبت هاش اعتماد کرد. اگر یک مقدار شک و شبهه دارید راجع به حضورتون در این دنیا و دنیاهای دیگه این کتاب رو بخونید. انسان همیشه در پی راهی برای فناناپذیری بوده غافل از این که ما از ازل فناناپذیر بودیم. هرچند هزارتا تئوری راجع به این موضوعات هست و همه شون جالب و هیجان انگیزن.
No matter your views on reincarnation, this book is a beautiful, impressionable read.
It left me feeling open to possibilities and more at peace about human suffering (which I was really struggling with at the time I read this).
It reinforced my belief that we are meant to open ourselves as we move through life, take in lessons, apply them and share them with others.
The beautiful message I gained from this book was, "We are okay.
Even in the midst of all of our suffering, we are okay."
One of the most thought provoking books I have read. It gives credence to the ideologies of Reincarnation and makes one feel more peaceful about our purpose on earth and our life after death.It is a must read for those who enjoy thinking about and talking about the ephemeral. It will not appeal to those who are not open-minded or who are not ready to receive and soak up this book.
The events & experiences recounted in this book are incommunicable, and if communicated, are unbelievable.To me, this seems like yet another book, maybe it's the pioneering book, or one of the, which almost completely borrows from East, and presents the information as some sort of divine revelations coming from enigmatic sources.
Psychology-In talking about a period which he calls in-between, described as a state between life and death, where the traits for the next life are pre-determined, Dr.Weiss borrows heavily from the Eastern psycholgical concept of traits.
There's no thought coming from Catherine in her conscious state!
Un libro diferente que debe leerse con la mente abierta y que puede hacernos ver la vida y la muerte desde otra perspectiva. Un libro que debemos tomar como punto de partida para reflexionar. Puedes creer o dejar de hacerlo pero este psiquiatra, escéptico en un principio, no muestra este caso real al que no le encontró base científica para derribarlo.VALORACIÓN: 8/10
When I read the book I too started believing in it and do want to continue to believe in reincarnation, but there is something at the back of my mind that asks me for more evidence before blindly believing in this.What I feel is that the patient looses consciousness under hypnosis and visualizes things that they've seen in the past or want to see.
It could be just like a dream where our memories form visuals for us.If Dr. Weiss ever reads this, I would like to ask him to perform his experiments on blind people.Send them in their past lives and see if they can actually SEE(VISUALS) in their past lives.The blind do not see things in their dreams.
The hypnotist asks the hypnotized patient what year the memories that she is now experiencing are from, and she replies something like, "1568 B.C." Even if one believes that reincarnation is real (and it may be) and that people can remember past lives through hypnosis (which may not be impossible), it is impossible to have a memory of date like 1568 B.C. Our current calendar didn't exist then, and whatever date the regressed patient may have known about way back then would have been completely untranslatable by the patient into a date in our modern calendar system.I'm not saying that the patient is outright lying.
anyone wanting to meditate about life, ponder the timeline of mortality or just in for a ride with an open mindLife is delicate.
This time here on earth is limited and should be enjoyed without regret or self-doubt.
There are possibly many lives before this one.
I believe that what we know in this life is built on from the last.
The life experiences we gain and meant to occur for us to proceed in the next life and the lessons not learned will carry over.
Basically I learned a lot about myself.
What I believe makes sense to me.
He and his patient Catherine spent much time together while she underwent past life regression therapy (Catherine was under hypnosis by Dr. Weiss) to cure anxiety and other psychological issues.
However, the meat of this book is supposed to be the experiences revealed of her past lives and I found none of her accounts believable.
And sadly, I didn't find the kinds of details that would make me believe that she truly lived and recounted past lives.
What may have cured Catherine was Dr. Weiss's determination to make her better, his love and care for her!However, I am not giving up on this author.
favorite book!!! It opened my eyes to a different way of looking at life!
The book is a narration by noted psychiatrist- Dr. Weiss about his experiences when his patient- Catherine- came to him a few years back to get cured.
In the book, every time Catherine is exiting a past life of hers, she happens to be transported onto a 'plane/ level' where she meets the 'Masters'.
But time is not as we see time but rather in lessons that are learnt" * This refers to the fact which we learn on reading the book- It tells us how 'we' are our soul which is and has been going from one body to another.
I don't think any review can accurately describe how amazing and larger than life book this is, but I'll try to give a coherent review.Before this book I'd never thought that I'd ever get a reason & cure for my fear of dark.
I never had a positive view towards life and didn't care to.Never really given a piece of mind to the thought of Rebirth, though its a part of my religion: Hinduism.But this life-changing, perspective-changing book had done all the above for me and successfully.This book tells us about a prominent psychiatrist who never believed in anything supernatural, needless to say, the prospect of rebirth was a far cry.
I didn't buy what Weiss was saying in this book, BECAUSE he didn't give me a reason to.
He claims that there are other writings, etc, that support what he is saying, but if you're going to write a book about a topic like this, YOU HAVE TO CITE YOUR SOURCES.
"Reincarnation was present in the Old and New Testament until religious leaders removed the mention because it caused people to be less concerned with their souls"- where are you getting this information?
For all we know, (and as I have to admit, I pretty strongly suspect), Weiss is just making up whatever information he needs to back his claim.
Absolutely do not listen to the reviews that say this book isn’t worth reading.
Otherwise your dogma will veil your ability to learn what this book has to offer.This isn’t a fantasy story, this is a recounting of true events that were recorded, of a patient with significant mental and emotional distress recalling over a dozen past lives under hypnosis.
Empty your cup, pick up this book, and stay open minded as you read.
You only live once is a belief that places a lot of pressure on individuals like me. Each passing second can be seen as a lost opportunity, and so most seconds are failures to truly live. This book is very fitting for people like me who truly struggle with the belief that this life must be lived perfectly, as it reminds us that we have certain lessons to learn each time, and the best we can do is practice them as well as we can we love and empathy.
زندگي يک فرصت بسيار کوتاه از هزاران فرصت است. هر زندگي فرصتي است براي آموختن يک درس، حتي اگر آن درس، درست کردن يک رابطه باشد يا کنار گذاشتن يک خصلت ناپسند. بنابراين خيلي ارزشمند است . عبور بايد کرد... و همسفر افقهاي دور بايد شد. ما انتخاب ميکنيم.
زندگي يک فرصت بسيار کوتاه از هزاران فرصت است. هر زندگي فرصتي است براي آموختن يک درس، حتي اگر آن درس، درست کردن يک رابطه باشد يا کنار گذاشتن يک خصلت ناپسند. بنابراين خيلي ارزشمند است . عبور بايد کرد... و همسفر افق‌هاي دور بايد شد. ما انتخاب مي‌کنيم.
And then, as soon as the session ends, you immediately feel the need to inform the readers that you find that ape-shit baloney completely believable, even though you are the oh-so-scientific!I am understandably shaken, but I decide to wait for the scientific explanation that would soon follow.
When he starts to talk about Catherine, he knows that his readers are immediately going to start judging her, so he wastes no time in telling us how beautiful Catherine is.
And then, since he knows that not everyone is taken in by mere good looks alone, he at once jumps to how Catherine is abused in the hands of her own father, which is now getting a little old, really.
First, the author must be one of the most gullible people on the planet because, without conducting his own investigation of the facts, he believes absolutely everything that his patient (a/k/a conduit to the netherworld) tells him about herself and the alleged messages from the spirits which she channels.
For a guy who keeps attempting to legitimize his story by telling us that he is a "scientist" employing the "scientific method", he shows an appalling willingness to believe everything he is told without bothering to corroborate the facts - how scientific is that?
Second, the author is incredibly condenscending as to his patient.
There is no evidence who is Catherine, in every five minutes she finds herself in new body as a slave and then there is death and transition and masters around guiding on trite wisdom.There is some stupid para in the book like at one place where it is asked : Is that memory carried in Genes?
This was more shocking than anything else.It is also mentioned that Catherine does not remember much about the wisdom of master between the transition from one body to other then how frequently her symptoms of depression wiped away from her life?
I am very curious about this kind of thing, and this slim but thoughtful book provides a good starting point for exploring the subjects of reincarnation and past life regression.
I have no personal experience with it, but I would like to give it a try someday.What gives Weiss's writings a lot of weight is the fact that he is an Ivy League-educated psychiatrist with a stellar resume.
These ideas also are not particularly new and connect well with established religious teachings.This was an interesting read, and while I was not totally won over, I would like to learn more, both about past life regression and about Weiss's experiences with it.
