https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46506.The_Orchard_Keeper
Come se la verità potesse incrinare lo statu quo.C’è abbondanza di segni di quella che sarà poi la sua arte nelle opere più riuscite, soprattutto l’attenzione alla natura, per nulla tenera, piuttosto ostile e violenta, ma a suo modo giusta, in quanto ‘naturale’ - s’intravede quella rudezza che è propria della società americana - la differenza tra vittime e carnefici è sfumata, storia scrittura e tono sono duri, aspri.Ma non c’è niente da fare, è un esordio estremamente deludente, perfino noioso, con personaggi sfocati, gran guignol a gogò, situazioni al limite della credibilità.James Franco, regista, e Scott Haze, protagonista, sul set del film “Figlio di dio” del 2013, tratto da un altro romanzo di Cormac McCarthy.
On the lips of the strange race that now dwells there their names are myth, legend, dust." -- Cormac McCarthy, The Orchard KeeperMcCarthy is at a natural disadvantage when an obsessive reader finally works back to his first book.
I liked Orchard Keeper.
It contains the strange embryo of all of McCarthy's future greatness: his great mythic prose, amazing archetypal characters, beautifully grand, natural scenes.
If you love McCarthy, please don't skip the Orchard Keeper, just don't expect it to knock you down, and chill you to the bone, and blow you away like Blood Meridian or Suttree.
The Orchard Keeper: Cormac McCarthy's first novel of a Southern QuartetThe Orchard Keeper by Cormac McCarthy was selected by Tom "Big Daddy" Mathews as the Moderator's Choice for Members of On the Southern Literary Trail for January, 2016.  First Edition, Random House, New York, New York, 1965   Cormac McCarthy, Dust Jacket Photo, "The Orchard Keeper"  Them that's got shall getThem that's not shall loseSo the Bible said and it still is newsMama may have Papa may haveBut God bless the child that'
There are three main protagonists, Marion Sylder, a bad boy not above breaking the law by running unbranded whiskey out of the hills in fast cars; Uncle Ather Ownby, who tends a ruined apple orchard, a hermit, content to live alone away from the encroachment of civilization, and young John Rattney, a fatherless boy, who comes to be fostered and mentored by both Sylder and Ownby.McCarthy writes of a land and a people fast changing.
Sylder has no idea whose body he's rolled off the road.Uncle Ather, walking through his ruined orchard discovers Rattner's body floating in the old spray pit.
Reception to his work runs the gamut: from the high praise of the eggheads (critics) and wanna-be eggheads, like myself, to the braying of the rabble: “it’s boring,” “what’s with that punctuation?” “he makes up words.” Comments like those suggest to me that a reader has read the wrong book; they say more about the reader than the text.
Not my favorite McCarthy, but it is everything I like most about his work.
It is my intention to reread all his fiction and dramatic works over the coming year, as well as, the volumes of criticism I’ve acquired and have yet to read.
His vision is bleak and depressing, and his themes seem to run to "live, suffer and die".But,oh my God, this was a good book!
I was so rooting for the old man, Uncle Ather, to escape into the Harrykin and live out his few years as he saw fit.
That's why I am not a McCarthy fan.But, oh my God, this was a great book!As another reviewer pointed out, the beauty of McCarthy's prose was worth the bleak and harrowing lives of his characters, but he had to temper his novels with others that were gentler, with some redemption involved.
Oh my God what a book!
Although The Orchard Keeper, Cormac McCarthy's first of ten novels to date, does labor under Faulkner's heavy mantle, it differentiates itself through a precision and foreboding in the tone it establishes, and a descriptive language that is almost wholly objective, yet immediately redolent and mythical.Set in the early 30's, the story concerns a hill-born teenage boy who becomes acquainted with the man who killed his father, though neither is aware of the other's identity.
Like any regional writer, McCarthy's uses place not only as setting, but also as impetus and character.
All things considered, however, The Orchard Keeper is a fine first novel that demonstrates pure ambition, a deftness of language in the upper one-percentile, and…I just don’t give a shit at all.
Three stories lines weaving and bobbing within and around one another proves (at least) two too many for McCarthy here.
It’s the rarest thing in his canon: completely forgettable.
I just finished the damned thing and I couldn’t tell you a whole lot about it.
I am, of course, on a strong regimen of memory-erasing pharmacopeia to cope with the necessities of modernity (a phone in your pocket!), but I tend to remember quite a bit about books (especially ones I’ve just finished).
However, I’d only read two of McCarthy’s novels before this year: Blood Meridian and The Road.
For the most part, McCarthy seems to simply drift around as the spirit moves him, which is just fine by me.Although this is McCarthy’s first book, it doesn’t really read like a debut novel.
This book is a bit disjointed, and I don’t know if it would have worked as a 400 page novel, but at under 250 pages the frequent digressions felt interesting instead of maddening.This was not as epic as Blood Meridian, and McCarthy’s best was yet to come.
Well before I finished it, I already could tell it was going to be a book that I would enjoy thinking about more than I enjoyed reading it.
Of the six other McCarthy books that I have read only one, Blood Meridian, gave me that impression but it is very evident in this, his first novel.
It is one of those books that is impossible to fully absorb with just one reading.Set in rural Tennessee in the years between the two World Wars, this is the story of an old man, a young man and a boy who are, unbeknownst to them, linked together by an act of violence that took place years before.
A truly intriguing and beautifully depicted but ultimately unsatisfying debut from McCarthy which arrived draped in keen, vibrant colours, with lush, fragrant descriptions of the gorgeous Tennessee landscape, earthy watercolour portraits of its taciturn characters, and the leisured pace of an Appalachian highway that tunnels through the overhanging, rainbow-spiked autumnal woods, emerging every now and then, sun-dappled and redolent of honey and cider, into the fresh breezes of open space—and yet those shimmery blacktops cutting across the narrative set pieces portend of imminent resolutions that never actually materialize.The plot?
Albert Erskine edited Faulkner’s last few books late in his career and then went on to edit several of McCarthy’s early works.The story follows three men in the Appalachian area somewhere near Knoxville, TN.
My favorite character was Uncle Ather, as he seemed to embody a similar defeated wisdom as Sheriff Bell in No Country for Old Men.I stumbled across this 1965 New York Times review of this book online:http://www.nytimes.com/books/98/05/17...Holy hell.
It is interesting to ponder whether or not Cormac McCarthy was simply not wired in that sort of way or if a few early reviews like the one above turned him against the idea.
When reading a McCarthy book, you already know what you're going to get: an obscure and erudite vocabulary full of comprehensive description; from the height of a tree, to the striations on the leaves, nothing left to ponder.McCarthy is more about quality over quantity, yet the reader yearns for more. With it being his first novel, it displays much talent and what would eventually become an amazing literary career.Probably a great starting point for anyone venturing out into one of his back-wood Appalachian microcosms.
I fully intend to work my way through the rest of his books by the end of the year.The Orchard Keeper is his first book, and wow, what an amazing first book.
Circumstances bring all three men together, and separately Sylder and Ather become father figures to Rattner.I'm keeping the synopsis spoiler free, but there is an irony to these men coming together, as they are all impacted by a crime committed by Sylder.
Through all of this Rattner is unaware of the impact these two men have on his life.People often ask me where to start with McCarthy, and I would say definitely pick up one of his later novels before attempting this one.
It was never my intention to do it this way but up to this point I've read all of McCarthy's books except this one.
So it happens that the last of his novels I've read is the first he wrote.
I can still sense the greatness of his unique style, but because I have read his following masterpieces, they are naturally what I use as a measuring stick for his work and "The Orchard Keeper" just doesn't hold up to any of his later work.
Just to clarify, I was disappointed only because this book was not as great as most of his others, but that does not mean I think this is a bad book.
There are times when I stop in reading to marvel at his stunning verbal combinations.
However the subject matter of this book just didn't appeal to me and I found the density of description overwhelming to the plot and actual characters.
I knew exactly what everything looked like, smelled like, moved like, sounded like, etc, but for a good chunk of it i wouldn't have been able to tell you what was actually going on and how it related to anything else.
I appreciate the man's talent and am certainly interested to read his other works, but this book left me rather cold.
narrativa enrolada, algo confusa. tem alguns momentos interessantes ainda assim (no início e no fim). vale sobretudo pelos traços de escrita do autor, que aprecio.
"The Orchard Keeper" is too well developed to have been a first finished effort.McCarthy must have half a dozen other initial attempts cached away in a desk drawer somewhere - rough drafts that nobody has ever seen.
He has always been slow, deliberate, beautiful, cautious, descriptive, and he has always been expertly so.Surprisingly, despite the fact that I thoroughly enjoy this book, I would call it my least favorite McCarthy novel.
Still, for McCarthy to have established himself as resoundingly as he did with his very first publication is highly impressive, and I thoroughly enjoy "The Orchard Keeper".
McCarthy wants to add a layer of irony here -- unbeknownst to John Wesley, Sylder recently killed Ken Rattner in a long and violent fight and dumped his body, the body, into a pit near the Ownby "orchard".
There's nothing mythical or legendary about the behavior of Sylder, Ownby or John Wesley in this novel.
Yet, somehow, it also feels like the author wants us to join John Wesley and his friends and go all-in for the idea that Ownby represents a spirit or set of values, which when gone, will be a great loss to the world.
The way the narrative is presented here is a little disorientating and I think anybody who reads it once and says they grasp the full themes of the tale told here is just full of malarkey.
patriarchy, I don't know for sure.This was for me a book I need to read again to get the full grasp of its themes, however the plot is somewhat straightforward and simple: The story takes place during the inter-war years in an isolated fictional community in Tennessee.

I enjoyed Cormac McCarthy’s All the Pretty Horses, so decided to start with his first novel and work my way forward. Aarg. This was the only book I had easy access to on the plane to Indiana or I wouldn’t have gotten halfway through it.I am a pretty astute reader, I think, but I couldn’t keep track of the characters and couldn’t find anyone or thing that I liked enough to keep going. Too bad.
The Orchard Keeper was Cormac McCarthy's first book, originally published back in 1965.
Random House was very sure of the book's popularity and importance, enough so to suggest McCarthy was a writer who would inevitably be recognized as a master at some point.
They clearly had no idea it would take about 30 years for him to start selling gobs of books.
The final character is a bootlegger, and is the man who actually killed the guy in the pit.
The old man has no idea whose body he guards.
It's a subtle, strange, evocative book, and all of the stylistic elements that distinguish McCarthy are already intact here.
Suddenly, the style we know & love arrives - almost as if he wrote the Faulkner heroism out of him, and released his own voice - and from then on, the book is a joy to read - well almost (more on that later).The novel is really interesting from a style point of view; it has all the coincidence of a Victorian novel - three people who share a common link but don't know it - but none of the resolution.
Sorprendente romanzo di esordio, nel quale trovano già espressione le principali tematiche che costituiranno il nucleo portante delle opere più mature di questo magnifico scrittore.
Suoni, odori, colori e palpiti di vita fanno così del paesaggio l’elemento predominante nel racconto, trasmettendo al lettore l’eco delle emozioni provate di volta in volta dai personaggi: inquietudine, paura, sensualità, odio, sgomento…E su tutto risalta come un miracolo la prosa austera e possente di McCarthy, vero erede della più gloriosa tradizione letteraria di ogni tempo.
Una lettura che si apprezza soltanto se già si conosce e si ama questo autore, qui più che mai esente dall’esercizio di quegli strumenti di ‘captatio benevolentiae’ che servono ad uno scrittore per conquistarsi il favore del grande pubblico.
And once again, sir, you did not let me down with your first novel the Orchard Keeper.Sure, it was a little confusing with the shifting narration, denoted with italics, that sometimes takes place in the middle of a conversation.
I sometimes wasn't quite sure whom nor when these parts referred to.
Alotting pages and pages to describe the Appalachian hills, the humus, moss, rotted wood, decaying matter under the feet of your characters.
Sure, not alot happened.
And I loved it.Recommended Soundtrack:Tim Barry's more haunting, sorrowful tracks.Waylon Jennings-Lonesome, On'ry, and MeanEarth-Hibernaculum (Hell, even the cover art to this album could easily be the cover art for the Orchard Keeper)Any old southern twang about runnin' whiskey.
Thanks to Diane I picked this one off the night table and gave it a read. After Blood Meridian I about had my fill of Cormac McCarthy.I liked everything about this book. The italicized sections seemed to be coming from each of the three main characters adding a slightly skewed perspective to the action at hand. I appreciated how the story was a collection of antidotes rather than a plot driven sledge hammer.Frank has a terrific set of thoughts. https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
leggere Cormac per me è come aprire gli occhi su un mondo che non ho mai preso in considerazione, ogni pagina mi accresce perchè sento il travaglio dell'autore che ha poi portato a quella creazione, e il risultato è così maturo e definitivo, quasi un dato di fatto, nulla si può obiettare alla definizione così precisa e non pedante delle varie personalità, solo il fatto che nulla è facile, ma così è la vita
What beautifully luminescent writing to impend with doom. McCarthy writes like an angel to describe a hell of Prohibition-era mountain-country Tennessee. I want to read everything he's written! So far I had only read The Road, whose writing I could well appreciate, but, as those who know me know, I don't like post-apocalyptic narratives.
Strážce sadu mě bohužel příliš nezaujal. Je to na můj vkus až příliš roztříštěné, měl jsem zejména ze začátku docela problém se začíst. O příběhu se moc nedá mluvit, postavy nevýrazné, prostě tentokrát mi to opravdu nesedlo. Je to McCarthyho prvotina, a přestože už tam je vidět jeho typický styl, není to zatím ono...
McCarthy is one of the top five users of English alive today, and possibly of all time, but he writes about the weirdest shit.
The man has a full orchestra in his fingertips and he uses every trombone, timpani, and clarinet at his disposal to play one of two, possibly three, notes.
He is a genre unto himself and each book is a timed experience of simmering in a weird and blood-heavy broth.
This book was okay: lingering and obviously beautiful but very uneventful for the most part, except when there's murder.
I get why the back was so vague about the plot now.
