https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/202897.Foreign_Affairs
”In this culture, where energy and egotism are rewarded in the young and good-looking, plain aging women are supposed to be self-effacing, uncomplaining--to take up as little space and breathe as little air as possible.” Cupid as Link Boy by Joshua ReynoldsVinnie Miner is 54 years old. She has never been what has been deemed attractive. She went through all the obligatory attempts to improve her appearance as she marched through her twenties, thirties, and forties. None of them worked. ”Indeed i
”In this culture, where energy and egotism are rewarded in the young and good-looking, plain aging women are supposed to be self-effacing, uncomplaining--to take up as little space and breathe as little air as possible.”
Meanwhile her colleague Fred Turner is in London as well to research the poems of John Gay. It isn’t going so well for him because he has hooked up with an actress named Lady Rosemary.
Most of the book I just wanted to pick Vinnie up off the ground and envelop her in a big hug.
Featuring characters with strong, distinct personalities, Lurie writes of finding romance in the least likely of places while making distinctions between American and British society.
Meanwhile, Miner's much younger colleague Fred Turner has also come to London to research 18th century literature.
Lurie's novel points at stark differences in American and British culture, with each group mocking fun at the other.
Of all the characters in the novel, I liked Virginia Miner least while I liked Chuck Mumpson, a proud American, best.
Yet, not all of the characters in this novel work for me, so I can not list Foreign Affairs as one of my favorite Pulitzers.
Also in London for his work on John Gay, the English poet and dramatist, is Fred Turner from Vinnie's same department who is estranged from his wife Roo. Vinnie eventually has an affair with Chuck (no, not a spoiler as it is ineluctable from the title of the book), but still can't manage to get past her inhibitors.
There are moments of comedy and sadness, but I had a hard time sympathizing for Vinne and Fred (feeling more pained actually by Chuck and Rosemary) as neither of them really comes to much of a catharsis or significant learning from their respective foreign affairs.
Also a young American colleague of hers in London for research at the same time.I really enjoyed both their perceptions of London in the eighties and how tourists feel when visiting a city.
Vinnie is an Anglophile and an intellectual snob and tries to resist the allures of a brash American tourist.
Fred gets involved with a 'luvvie' actress..Their time in London will not be forgotten.
As a single woman of a certain age myself, I found many of the observations in this book made me squirm a little, even as I enjoyed them and even when they made me laugh, because they were so 'spot on'.I really liked metaphorical dog character who accompanies Vinnie through the book and her life..Very good read.
Charming, perceptive and told with discreet humour, Foreign Affairs is the Pulitzer Prize winning novel about two American academics on six months study leave in Britain.
Vinnie (Virginia) is a single 54yo professor from Corinth, an admitted Anglophile in Britain to collect notes on nursery folklore and looking forward to seeing her academic and theatrical British friends.
The two paramours in this tale are polar opposites: Vinnie's guy is from Oklahoma, a big man who dresses like a cowboy and Fred's lover is a titled British actress with many sides to her character.
Vinnie's a bit of a snob; at first she strives to keep her American lover apart from her British friends.
Two American university colleagues doing research in London get involved in very different affairs in Alison Lurie's charming, impeccably written comedy of manners.A tad lightweight for a Pulitzer Prize-winner (it took the prize in 1985), the highly readable novel offers up wise truths about etiquette, aging and the mysteries of love.There are some hilarious sections, especially involving a complaining couple named the Vogelers and their demanding baby.
And the London setting is evocative (I timed the reading of the book to coincide with my recent first trip there).
Foreign Affairs by Alison Lurie is the story of two American academics visiting England for research, and not just of the literary kind.
Vinnie Miner is, by her own description, a plain, unmarried professor of children's rhymes in her mid-fifties who considers herself more English than American.
Fred Turner is a young adjunct professor, also American, in England to do research on 18th century playwright, John Gay. Both are surprised by the romantic partners they find.Lurie's prose is witty and intelligent, just like her "heroine" Vinnie.
As the heroine of "Foreign Affairs" complains, there is no grand romance in our culture for the middle-aged, only for the young and beautiful.
The book follows two threads - Fred, a young academic, and Vinnie, the spinster professor, both of whom have come to London in search of scholarly research.
Instead, separately, they find love: disastrously for Fred, who is stranded between his ultra-feminist American wife and ultra-feminine English mistress; and more happily for Vinnie who to her own horror finds herself embroiled with a cowboy named Chuck.
How this won a Pulitzer is beyond me. Just a Romance novel with some cynicism thrown in.
The other primary character is Fred Turner, an assistant professor at the same University, who is also in London on a research grant.
These are real people even if I cannot relate to college professors and the opportunity to do research at the British Museum.While thinking what I might say about the prose, I thought of Elizabeth Strout, one of my favorite authors.
How much more quiet can it get with Vinnie sitting on a bench at the London Zoo watching the polar bears?
It is what Vinnie thinks as she sits there that moves the story.
I loved the idea of this story, and there is much in it I would normally like: An American in England, a middle-aged love story, a dog mascot, gossip, lots of tea drinking.
But that “Winner of the Pulitzer Prize” at the top sets the expectations pretty high, and this just didn’t live up to them.The plot was okay, and the story moved along well enough, but the writing style was disappointing.
There was more telling than showing, too many overdone stereotypes, and it just wasn’t that funny.2.5 stars, rounding up because I clearly missed something.So now I’m on the lookout for a story like this, but better.
It was a breath of fresh air to read a story that didn't involve young couples with or without children.
And the main character, a 54 year old woman, is a college professor with an established reputation in children's literature.
She has her own demons, including self-pity, but she recognizes her demons and gives them form in a mutt, mainly Welsh terrier, whom she has named Fido.
Thus, the reader can recognize her mental state whenever Fido is trailing at her heels.Without actually going to London, I can feel like I'm there, accompanying this familiar lady whom I've never met (and never will).
I'm astounded that this book won the Pulitzer Prize.
I can only think that the prize was given more for the author's body of work rather than this particular novel.
I don't understand why, but I've been stuck with a rash of books where the characters are completely unlikeable, and this one is no different.
The story revolves around two American Professors who go to London for research for just less than a year.
The story follows them through their friendships and affairs and absolute lack of any sort of University involvement at all.
This book went back and forth between chic-lit and serious fiction.
This book made me look up what other books had won the prize, because the feeling of Foreign Affairs is mostly sort of a light romp, and my vague feeling about the Pulitzer was that it was generally for a heavier type of book.
But still, it seems an odd choice somehow.That being said, Foreign Affairs has some exceptional character development and writing.
I only hold back that one star because the story, for me, is so light that I know I won't end up remembering it for long.
I'm not sure.
But then again, I'm not sure about Lonesome Dove being there either, so go figure.
This delightful little novel is lighter fare than the typical Pulitzer winner.
In a fashion not dissimilar to the following year’s Pulitzer Prize winner, Lonesome Dove, Lurie mixes pathos and humor in a way that feels like life itself.
And also like McMurtry she never sacrifices entertainment on the altar of profundity.
If you are like me, this novel and its characters will grow on you.
However, by the time I was about a third of the way into the story I was thoroughly hooked.
I highly recommend this novel to the reader looking for a lighter, but still intelligent, read.
This book could have been a snoozer.
The premise of this book may sound overdone or stale.
But there is nothing stale, boring, or trite about Foreign Affairs.
Lurie doesn't only just delve into the lives of two ordinary academics traveling to London-- stereotypes whose destination is banal, unexotic.
They are ordinary, yes, but they are the lens through which Lurie explores, among other topics, Anglophilia's charms and dangers, the literary heroine, the idea of the "dumb" American, how the glamour of travel has a tendency to wear off, elitism, sincerity vs.
Lurie's writing is smoothly precise, multi-faceted, and buoyant with insight.
Her young colleague Fred, whose story intertwines Vinnie's, has no money, no spouse (they split before he went to London without her), and no hope.
This book was readable, entertaining at times, and I liked the London setting.
I could never quite see how the two colleagues connected, though, because most of the time they didn't, except that Vinnie introduced Fred to the actress.
And I knew that Vinnie needed to make the decision she didn't make.Nice to see a book where a middle aged woman could fall in love and have it be the center of the story.
An uninteresting story about unlikable characters, and way too long. I have no idea how it won a Pulitzer.
This is an entertaining read. Not bad, but definitely DEFINITELY not what you would expect to win the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction. It is perhaps one step above a typical romance novel. The characters are ok. The premise is ok. The plot and pacing are ok. But that's it--ok. The better choice would be Berger's The Feud which was a finalist the year before (1984). Now there's a book with something to say!
A very literate book about an English professor from Corinth University (a rearrangement of Cornell University) who goes to England and wishes she was a Brit. Lots of intrigue with American and British love affairs. I liked the book.
This book won the Pulitzer Prize in 1985. The story is about 2 Americans living in London and their search for love. The writing of Alison Lucie is very entertaining and made we want to book a trip to London and spend a month touring. I give this book 4 stars.
D. Lodge develops an ample story set on both sides of the Atlantic, while Alison Lurie limits the action to London and to just several characters.
The reader ends up loving Vinnie , the American professor in her mid fifties who praises London and everything British but who also finds herself romantically involved with an American guy, as American as he can be.
Both characters ( Vinnie and Fred) discover that love is different from what one expects based on literary knowledge or romantic expectations.
I know this book won the Pulitzer Prize---but why is beyond me.
The narrative sequences are well written, but the characters!
I just don't care about them at all.
Vinnie is so needy and whiny---always just a breath away from her next pity party.
And Fred!
What a schmuck!
Chuck turns out to be a more sympathetic character than he is early on.
I am about 2/3 of the way through with this book, and at this point I am just scanning to see if there's any reason to actually read what's left.
Why did I read this far?
I'm discovering all sorts of writers I'd never otherwise discover by scouring the used bookstores in NYC, usually to so-so results. But Alison Lurie is a great find, a tremendously entertaining and captivating writer whose novel about two American academics in London had me in thrall all day today. Lurie won the Pulitzer Prize in 1984 for this book, with good reason, drawing comparisons to Henry James and Edith Wharton and Jane Austen - all very good company. I'm going trolling for more of her stuff soon.
A very literate page-turner delight... sort of like a classic comedy of manners updated slightly for our times. Wharton-esque, even. A lot of fun.
Beautifully written and well deserving of the Pulitzer Prize. The characters are so finely chiselled that they are memorable, real people, flaws and warts, but people you truly care about.
Comedy of manners, full of trenchant observations on human nature that made me laugh out loud. I was particularly fond of Vinnie's imaginary dog named Self-Pity.
As I read the first pages where Alison Lurie describes the preflight rituals of her protagonist, Vinnie, I knew I was in the hands of a pro.
In those pages Lurie paints a picture of Vinnie that manages to be both poignant and bitingly amusing.
In fact, I recently wrote a chapter in a novel of my own that covers a similar situation, but Lurie’s is so much better in every way that it would be embarrassing if I had any shame left.
After that brilliant first chapter the book kept humming nicely along, introducing beautifully rendered characters as its simple but effective plot moved briskly forward.
One is handsome young man hoping to gather information at British Museum; one is "plain" over fifty female whose studies center on children's literature and play-time folk rhymes.
Both have visits from Cupid.As for our lady, Vinnie:"...plain women often have a sex life.
what they lack, rather, is a love life."And the gentleman, Fred:"Fred Turner knows, of course, that he is a handsome, athletic-looking young man, the type that directors employ to battle carnivorous vegetables.
I was reading a book about children's literature and Alison Lurie was mentioned a few times.
Upon learning she wrote a Pulitzer Prize winning book I decided to read it.
Foreign Affairs was not what I was expecting and it isn't what I would ever choose for myself, but I really loved most of it.
There was a lot of language I didn't expect from an author who is also an expert in children's literature, but I don't know why I was under the illusion an expert in children's literature would write her adult novel for children.
This is certainly a book for adults.
