https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/261331.The_Tea_Rose
(Yep, you can do that in a Victorian novel, as long as you include Gauguin and the Prince of Wales various other luminaries in your anecdotes.)* There is an unfortunate tendency to jump forward in the story and then backtrack with a flashback.* The author gives her characters a little too much credit in coming up with innovations in their fields.* There are too many instances of telling us things about a character rather than showing them.* Fiona is the ultimate Mary Sue with her beautiful face and figure, brilliant blue eyes, and tendency to strike awe and admiration in everyone she meets.Having said all that, however, I really started to like Fiona after she leaves London.
A wonderful book so vividly described one felt you were there among the many heartwarming and equally evil characters. Set in the 1800’s it takes you on an extraordinary journey you never want to end. Quite simply brilliant.
The story was pretty far fetched at times-but I suppose in kind of an endearing "fairy tale" way (which is funny, since a great deal of the book is extremely horrible and depressing), and the main character didn't really have any flaws.Well, I take that back.
Fiona, the main character, was in love with Joe. That is a fault, in my eyes.
Bless her heart, she really got run through the mill in the story.Okay...now for the two main reasons I loved the book beyond all reason:1.
The story broke my heart.There was a happy ending though, no worries.
Once I got over da feckin' Oirish accent t'ing, I really got into this one. What an epic tale. I absolutely adored Fiona, her spirit, her independence, her outspoken nature, her love of her family.  Fiona Finnegan, a worker in a tea factory, hopes to own a shop one day, together with her lifelong love, Joe Bristow, a costermonger's son. With nothing but their faith in each other to spur them on, Fiona and Joe struggle, save, and sacrifice to achieve their dreams.  A tragic incident has horrible
I absolutely adored Fiona, her spirit, her independence, her outspoken nature, her love of her family.
Fiona Finnegan, a worker in a tea factory, hopes to own a shop one day, together with her lifelong love, Joe Bristow, a costermonger's son.
With nothing but their faith in each other to spur them on, Fiona and Joe struggle, save, and sacrifice to achieve their dreams.
A tragic incident has horrible consequences for the McGowan family, especially Fiona.Spanning a number of years and two continents, it kept me on my toes.
"I want a man who loves me.One who won't break my heart."
I had a lot of hope for this after reading Donnelly's "A Northen Light" (which I really liked) and after learning that "A Tea Rose" was set in London at the time of the Jack the Ripper murders (a very intriguing setting, I thought).
Main characters Fiona and Joe, lovers separated by a horrible scheme (Fiona goes to New York, Joe stays in London), are dirt-poor but somehow, in a very short time, they both become extraordinarily rich on their own wit and intuition.
Sorry, Donnelly, only 1 star this time.Find more book reviews at A Quick Red Fox.
The Tea Rose was a really good book, and I'm so glad I persevered past the absolutely devastating first 200-300-odd pages.
I'm really proud of myself for pushing through it, because I usually hate reading books full of tragedy, and this was darker than I can usually tolerate.I'm fairly certain I stuck with it partly because of the tea.
The sense of place was very vivid, and it kept me reading, along with the hope that such tragedy couldn't continue for 700 pages without reprieve.I was totally ready to walk away if Part 2 didn't start turning things around.
Όχι επειδή δεν αντέχω το διάβασμα, αλλά η πείρα μου, μου έχει μάθει ότι κείμενα τέτοιου μεγέθους είναι γεμάτα περιττές λεπτομέρειες και φλυαρίες.
Πρώτον, η πλοκή του κυλάει τόσο γρήγορα που δεν προλαβαίνεις να χωνέψεις τις εξελίξεις, οπότε δεν υπάρχει περίπτωση να πιάσεις τον εαυτό σου να βαριέται, εκτός κι αν γενικώς το ιστορικό μυθιστόρημα δεν είναι το φόρτε σου.
Επίσης παρόλο που συμβαίνουν διάφορα δυσάρεστα καταφέρνει να κρατήσει ανάλαφρη νότα και δεν σου κάθεται στο στομάχι, απεναντίας διαβάζεται πολύ ευχάριστα.
Τρίτον, μου άρεσε πολύ η ηρωίδα του, λατρεύω τις δυναμικές ηρωίδες στα βιβλία και για τέτοιες συνήθως ψάχνω να διαβάσω.
I loved the way the story was going and I loved to read about Fiona and her changes till the end.
This is a very long book, but at no point did I feel like it was dragging too much or that any pages could have been taken out of the story.
The silly name "Tastea" was just too foolish for me to take seriously, but at least you could see that this was a book written by Jennifer Donnelly.All in all, a great love story and coming-of-age book that will encapture you from beginning to end if you read it with an open heart and an open mind.
So don’t let the number of pages put you off.The Tea Rose tells the heartbreaking story of Fiona Finnigan who lives in the poor neighborhood of East End, London around the time of Jack the Ripper (late 1880s).
The mystery surrounding the identity of Jack the Ripper, though is what made it impossible for me to put the book down.
The Tea Rose has everything.
There is a chance you don’t love this book as much as I did but it’s definitely worth a try!
If you are looking for a good revenge story then this is the book for you!
Set in London, England during the late 19th Century, The Tea Rose tells the tale of Fiona Finnegan.
With the love of her life, Joe Bristow, Fiona dreams of escaping the poverty and opening her own tea shop.
But one by one her dreams fall apart as her father is killed in a dock accident, Joe is seduced by another woman, and her mother is viciously murdered – a suspected victim of Jack the Ripper.
The Tea Rose is an extremely well-researched and well-written novel which is packed full of unexpected twists and turns throughout the story.
The other 350 pages drift somewhere along a mediocre plot-line, ridiculous dialogue and predictable, fairytale-like situations.
On page 13, Donnelly spends an entire paragraph detailing how Kate prepared dinner.
It's no wonder the book is over 500 pages long.
A rivulet of juice ran down the side of the chop, sputtering into steam as it hit the hot metal of the frying pan.
The most annoying thing of all: Donnelly would spend hundreds of those pages leading up to the climax of a sub-plot, then she'd skip over it altogether and the reader would come in after.
This one of my all time favorites!! It is a sweeping saga, set between the US, Ireland, and England. It's fabulous. If you love historical epics, do yourself a favor and read it now! It's out in paperback now. A warning, it's huge!!
Stupid man but he knew his mistake right away and he pay for it, oh didn't he pay dearly for it and at the end I genuinely feel sorry for him.Anyway, this not just about their love, more about the story of Fiona Finnegan building her Tea Business Empire which starting from part two of the book.
Yup something like that full of drama with a heroine as a main character but don't forget this book a historical romance too, so the love story quite bit here and not exactly the same with K&A.Fiona's story kind of ended here but The Finnegan's story continues to the next book and you will meet her again.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Since that was part of a trilogy, I figured I'd skip the 'winter' challenge and try the first in the series - historical novel, lots of good reviews, sounded like fun.Mostly, it was a pretty good read.
I know why the author has done it, and I have no alternative to offer.It's very readable, but too long, and I did get impatient with being told what a person was like rather than shown.
I kept being told that people did what Fiona wanted because .
If you like historical romances and long books, this might be for you.
East London 1888 is a place where in its shadows thieves, whores and dreamers mingle.Fiona Finnegan works in a tea factory.
She hopes to own her own shop one day along with her lifelong love, Joe Bristow.
Fiona &Joe struggle, save and sacrifice to achieve their dreams.Then Fiona's life is shattered when a brutal man takes nearly everything and everyone she holds dear.
Fearing for her life she flees London and goes to New York.
But Fiona's old ghosts do not rest easily and she has to return to London to face a deadly confrontation.A fantastic read.
So well written with believable characters.
Ένα μέρος όπου ληστές, μπράβοι, πόρνες και συνηθισμένοι άνθρωποι ονειρεύονται μια καλύτερη ζωή, κι όπου τις νύχτες τριγυρίζει ο Τζακ ο Αντεροβγάλτης.Εκεί, δίπλα στα νερά του Τάμεση, μια έξυπνη και θαρραλέα κοπέλα τολμάει να κάνει όνειρα για μια ζωή μακριά από τις ετοιμόρροπες αποβάθρες, τα βρομερά σοκάκια και τη θλίψη της φτωχογειτονιάς.Η Φιόνα Φίνεγκαν αγωνάνθρωποι ονειρεύονται μια καλύτερη ζωή, κι όπου τις νύχτες τριγυρίζει ο Τζακ ο Αντεροβγάλτης.
Εκεί, δίπλα στα νερά του Τάμεση, μια έξυπνη και θαρραλέα κοπέλα τολμάει να κάνει όνειρα για μια ζωή μακριά από τις ετοιμόρροπες αποβάθρες, τα βρομερά σοκάκια και τη θλίψη της φτωχογειτονιάς.

Уау!
Определено Донъли се издига все по-нагоре в класациите с всяка прочетена книга!
А четенето на исторически романи може и да ми се превърне в хоби, ако тя им е автор.
Страхотна история, която макар и да се развива повече от 100 години назад във времето, носи толкова модернистичен дух, че на моменти ми се налагаше да се спра и да си напомня в кой век се развива действието.
Ако искате да се насладите на един наистина впечатляващ роман за Лондон, Джак Изкормвача, малко любов тук и там и много чай, то тази книга определено е вашият избор :)
That's what the uncle of the heroine says she'll be doing if she marries the rich man.
And sadly, I've got nowhere to use it.
This novel has been out for a decade now, and the fact that it's the choice of the History Fictionistas series read right now, speaks to its sticking power.
It's got your star-crossed romance, your gay best friend, a serial killer, Dickensian lowlifes and a grand finale.
A Winter Rose, the second in the series, is up next, and I'll be all over it.
It features another tough heroine.
When I first started reading this book, I thought "whew...over 500 pages. What kind of story are they trying to tell me? Is it going to be stuffed with description upon description of everything the main charactors come in contact with?" After finishing it, I could have read another 100 pages of the lives of Fiona and Joe. It was a book of second chances and missed opportunities. As well as a "I didn't see that coming and a yup that's what I figured" Loved it!Favorite quote...."We're not punished for our sins, but by them."
The Tea Rose deserves an eloquently written review but honestly I don't think I'm able to write one worthy of it. It was one of the best books I've ever read and listened to and it will be an all time favorite of mine. The characters were simply fabulous and I felt as though I was actually part of the story— the author's writing was so compelling and real. It is a very long book yet I didn't want it to end. Thankfully there are two more equally long books in the series. I highly recommend this one.
Να σου μεταφέρουν με την καλοδουλεμένη, λεπτομερή, γλαφυρή, μα σε καποία περίπτωση κουραστική περιγραφή προσώπων και καταστάσεων, όχι μόνο εικόνες, σκέψεις και συναισθήματα αλλά ταυτόχρονα, χρώματα, μουσικές, γεύσεις και αρώματα.Η Donnelly τοποθετεί την ιστορία της σε μια άλλη εποχή, σε μια εποχή που απέχει πολύ από το σύχρονο, βιομηχανοποιημένο και τεχνολογικά εξελιγμένο παρόν.
Όμως, πέρα από τις γενικότητες, η συγγραφέας με ιεροτελεστικό τρόπο μας εισάγει στην φιλοσοφία του τσαγιού, στην κουλτούρα, τις ποικιλίες, τα διαφορετικά είδη, την προέλευση, την παραγωγή αλλά και την εξέλιξή του μέσα στον χώρο και τον χρόνο.
4 stars - It was great. I loved it. Excellent story that was engaging from the beginning and held your interest all the way through. -------------------------------------------Favorite Quotes: We're not punished for our sins, lad. We're punished by them.First Sentence: Polly Nichols, a Whitechapel whore, was profoundly grateful to gin.
Ein Re-Read für mich. Meiner Meinung nach ein Buch, das man absolut gelesen haben muss. Und das auch, wenn man (wie ich) ansonsten nicht unbedingt historische Romane liest.
To name a few, the way Fiona quickly found Nick and was able to get out of London.
And, why work so hard to make things happen?
5. The many characters who played minor roles from her brothers, her father and mother, Joe's family, Will, her wealthy suitor (I'm glad that worked out how it did), her gay husband Nick, the horrible Mr. Burton (maybe too creepy?) and that darn Millie, were all interesting and well thought out.
I was drawn into the story quickly and enjoyed it all of the way through.
There is nothing white or royal about it.Life is not for the faint of heart in this and many other sections of 1888 London.
But Fiona and her childhood sweetheart,Joe Bristow have big plans.
They are going to have their own shop.They religiously squirrel little bits of money away against the day when they can break out of poverty into better lives.
Life however has other plans and heart break ensues with the deaths of pretty much every member of Fiona's family with the exception of her youngest brother, and losing Joe to another girl.
Loved the history, mystery, romance, murder, and family connections.Loved this book...the characters are unforgettable....Fiona Finnegan comes from a poor family and works in the tea factory just like the rest of her family. Circumstances cause her to leave London and she becomes a "tea baron" - filled with history, love, importance of family, and a strong female heroine.The sequel, THE WINTER ROSE, is just as unforgettable...the family legacy continues in this book.
Невероятна!
An absolutely lovely story.
Broken up into three parts Jennifer Donnelly takes you on a journey that will captivate you and have you falling in love with Fiona Finnegan from the get go.On this journey there will be joy and sadness, laughter and tears, love and loss.
Fiona is at the heart of this story.
Fiona's heart was stolen at a very young age by Joe Bristow.
It was a forever kind of love until it wasn't.
Or so both Fiona and Joe thought.
The Tea Rose is a story I won't soon forget.
The story has the most amazing, rich period atmosphere, it was so easy to get lost in it.Lots of wonderful characters, most of all Fiona Finnegan (view spoiler)[, who the author made me love even while not minding that she was a complete and total Mary Sue, which is quite a feat as far as I'm concerned (hide spoiler)].
I loved it.The one real aggravation I had that kept me from giving this 5 stars was (view spoiler)[ how bloody stupid Fiona began behaving once Burton was on the loose after trying to kill her in front of all those witnesses.
Ανυπομονω να πιασω το 2ο βιβλιο της τριλογιας!
It's been 3 or 4 years since I've read it, but from what I still remember, she strips and ambushes him in the dark, playing the "he's too intoxicated and horny to refuse me" card and he fucks her like a rabbit, thoroughly enjoying the whole 30 seconds of the messy and ridiculous coupling) and ending up pregnant.
It was disturbing and annoying, not to mention cruel and embarrassing.Joe and Fiona had just made love for the first time a day earlier, and knowing that the bitch wanted him and was scheming to make him marry her, he gets drunk at her party and fucks her like the horny teenager he really is.
I drink a lot of tea, roses are one of my favorite flowers and I love historical fiction and that's the reason why I put this book on my to-read-list.
You'll have an incredible read!The story is about revenge, love, willpower, deception and is very captivating.
My favorite character by far is Nicholas Soames.
Yes, he's a spoiled brat, but he had a really difficult life and I read his life story with tears in my eyes.
My favorite quote is: "I've always admired your rather formidable will, your refusal to back away from difficulties, but sometimes strength isn't about perseverance.
Има толкова много моменти, в които човек може да си поплаче на воля.
Намира се мъж, който й казва, че я обича от цялото си сърце и душа, но в замяна иска от нея да се откаже от бизнеса си, за който се е трудила толкова много, само защото мястото на жената е да е подчинена на мъжа, да не работи и да бъде само майка и съпруга.
Но когато той пожелава от нея тя да се откаже и от най-добрият си приятел, тогава разумът й надделява и тя загърбва фалшивата любов.
Ein absolutes Highlight
The Tea Rose is a fabulous story of an amazing, ambitious girl, Fiona, from the slums of Whitechaple who dreams of a life without poverty and a boy named Joe. Fiona and Joe grew up with each other and are very much in love.
Their relationship changes when Joe moves to a better job and then Fiona loses her family tragically and escapes to New York taking her 5-year-old brother, Seamie, with her.
The story then follows Fiona’s life and struggles in New York and her rise to the top of the Tea trade.
Check - (view spoiler)[she has the BIGGEST tea business in the United States (hide spoiler)].While the over-the-topness can be fun and work for the novel (such as getting Fiona out on her own and develop into a real character instead of a Mary Sue), it can also detract from the essentials.
Fiona has ridiculous luck once she arrives in America (view spoiler)[(Nick gets her on the boat, a famous New York millionaire steps in o help her, falls in love with her, she "invents" iced tea and tea packets, etc) (hide spoiler)]; she has to in order to set her revenge against the men who killed her father.
Αποφάσισα πλέον ότι αν ένα βιβλίο δεν καταφέρει να με κερδίσει στις πρώτες σελίδες δεν πρόκειται να εξαναγκαστώ να το τελειώσω.Έτσι το εγκαταλείπω μετά από 140 σελίδες γιατί πρώτον βαρέθηκα απίστευτα και δεύτερον η Φιόνα κατάφερε μέσα σε τόσο λίγη έκταση να μου γίνει τόσο αντιπαθητική που δεν θέλω να φανταστώ τη συνέχεια.Αν και εκτιμώ την Donnelly σαν συγγραφέα, το συγκεκριμένο μου θύμισε κακογραμμένο άρλεκιν, αφελές και σαχλό.Ίσως μια μέρα το ξαναπροσπαθήσω για την ώρα πάντως απογοητεύτηκα ίσως γιατί είχα πολύ υψηλές προσδοκίες.
Tα πέντε αστεράκια ειναι πολύ λίγα γι'αυτό το βιβλίο!!!Είναι υπέροχο... το ερωτεύτηκα!!Νομίζω ότι δεν υπάρχει ούτε μια λεξούλα περιττή στις 800 σελίδες του!Συγκλονιστικό απο την αρχή ως το τέλος!!
Мисля, че всички мой приятели прочели книгата са казали всички суперлативи-но съм зашеметена WOL.. ШЕДЬОВЪР за мен
The author really knows how to paint the darker side of humanity." Unfortunately the promising start quickly fizzled for me.The Tea Rose is a story of young lovers who dream of together working their way out of the slums.
I couldn't help feeling at this point that her portrayal was a bit cliched.
Actually at times, the story reminded me a bit of an 80's TV melodrama.As for the male protagonist, Joe, I had a hard time warming to him.
Eventually it made sense and did add suspense when the story finally came together.Although at times I had a hard time liking the protagonists, by the end, I did want to see them reunited for HEA.
'Privelaged girl meets Privelaged boy, having to endure the constant snear of society, all the while trying to (and always failing) to maintain ones virtue' stories.
More angst, More struggle, (beyond what color of dress to wear to the society ball), more 'REAL'.
A magnificent story, of love and loss, struggle and survival, and the determination to be more than what life has handed you.
A beautiful 'life and love' story, that felt very real for me.
and the people along the way, some who hindered, many who loved unconditionally and helped ease the way.I adored this book..
"Got to have a dream, Fee," he said. "The day you stop dreaming you might as well take yourself down to the undertaker's, for you're as good as dead."  I didn't really know what to expect of this book when I started it. I had high hopes, and my hopes were mainly based on the pretty cover and the beautiful title. I am shallow like that. But I can honestly say my expectations were met and I loved this story. I love historical stories. I feel like everything in the present is put in perspective f
"The day you stop dreaming you might as well take yourself down to the undertaker's, for you're as good as dead."
I feel like everything in the present is put in perspective for me every time I read a historical book.
Reading about them counting every penny and figuring out how to feed the kids or keep them warm when it's cold, made me feel like I was in their situation.
She trades her old dreams in for new ones, remembering her father's words the day you stop dreaming you might as well take yourself down to the undertaker's, for you're as good as dead.
A tale of two star crossed lovers (they came SO CLOSE to finding each other time after time after time I wanted to scream!), a lovely glimpse of Victorian England and New York City.
My only complaints are just a few too many famous people popping in and out of Fee's life in New York, and the reveal on the supposed identity of Jack the ripper was a bit over the top, but that's just splitting hairs.
If you love Victorian England, true love and maybe a good cry or two, don't pass this up.
Muhteşemdi ya sonlara doğru içimden kötü bir şey olmasın diye dua ederek okudum. Karakterlere aşık oldum kurguya ve yazarın hayat görüşlerine de.
