https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/211146.A_Share_in_Death
This book reads like a traditional or classic British cozy mystery and it’s easy to see why it quickly gained a following and is so successful.
I did read a later release a long while back, but while the mystery was fine, the interpersonal dynamics between longtime recurring characters left me totally in the dark.
So, it was obvious that even if the mystery elements can be read as a stand alone, if I really wanted to enjoy the series to the maximum, I’d have to start at the beginning.
Overall, this is an entertaining read any mystery fan can enjoy.3.5 stars
Deborah Crombie's mystery series features Scotland Yard's Det. Superintendant Duncan Kincaid & his partner, Sergeant Gemma James.A Share in Death is the 1st novel in the series, which currently contains 16 books.
I do feel that the books are best read in order.Kincaid is on long-earned vacation at a Yorkshire time-share but his holiday is anything but relaxing.
The characters are so quintessentially British...I really liked that.I enjoyed the connection and interaction between Kincaid and James and I can't wait to finding out more about these two's history.The feel of "place"...here in the Yorkshire moors, was vividly written that I almost felt I was part of the story.I am really looking forward to the next book.
A Goodreads friend recommended this author to me when I felt sad that I had read all of Edward Marston's series about the Railway Detective so I decided to try out the first book in Deborah Crombie's Duncan Kincaid and Gemma James series and I love it!
Duncan tries not to mention that he is a Scotland Yard Detective Superintendent when he arrives at the time share but it comes out when he finds two of the kids staying at the timeshare crying over the assistant manager who has been murdered in the spa by someone who threw in a plugged in appliance.
I'm not an avid reader of detective whodunnits, but sometimes I come across a series that intrigues me, especially if it's set in England.
I recently came across a reference to Deborah Crombie's newest book in her series featuring Duncan Kincaid and Gemma James and thought it sounded like something I might enjoy.
I don't like entering a series in mid-stream, for in a good series the main characters will develop and relationships will grow and change or end.
I liked Crombie's descriptions, her sympathetic characters, her realistic setting, and intriguing mystery.
Despite a distinct lack of cooperation from the local constabulary, Kincaid's keen sense of duty won't allow him to ignore the heinous crime, impelling him to send for his enthusiastic young assistant, Sergeant Gemma James.
But the stakes are raised dramatically when a second murder occurs, and Kincaid and James find themselves in a determined hunt for a fiendish felon who enjoys homicide a bit too much.The crime story was solid police procedural, however the writing was hackneyed and cliche-ridden and peopled with heart-shaped faces.I do have more in this series in the dusty storage box, yet it might be a while before I get to them.
I had high hopes for this book not least because it is the first in quite a long series.
I think it was all quite well done in many ways and the Kincaid character in particular is not bad but all a little too formulaic and predictable for me.
Whilst this is not a problem in itself it did give rise to a few slightly odd issues and speech irregularities for dialects in particular.
At one point a game of croquet is described and somebody's ball apparently hits the wicket.
Think mixed obscure English games a problem here!
Despite a distinct lack of cooperation from the local constabulary, Kincaid's interest in crime (and Nash's incompetence) won't allow him to ignore the heinous crime, impelling him to put his enthusiastic young assistant, Sergeant Gemma James, to work.Then a second murder occurs, and they find themselves in a determined hunt for a fiendish felon who enjoys homicide a bit too much.The CharactersDuncan Kincaid is one of Scotland Yard's bright young men and has been promoted to detective superintendent.
A Share in Death is the first book in the Duncan Kincaid/Gemma James series.
I chose to read this book due to recommendations from mystery readers.
Duncan looks forward to just relaxing and does not let fellow vacationers know his profession.
That soon changes when a murder happens after Duncan checks in.The murder in not in Duncan's jurisdiction and the head local investigator resents Duncan looking in on the crime.
His partner Gemma does investigation in the neighborhoods of the suspects.It was a good mystery due to all all the suspects and plotting.
I am looking forward to reading more in the series and catching up with Duncan's and Gemma's lives.
This was a nicely written cozy mystery, with a likeable detective. This is the first book in this series and a good start. The story isn't that gripping but nicely written and it was what i was looking for at the moment. I really liked Duncan and Gemma and they are the reason I would go back to this series in the future. I am curious to see how their relationship develops and to learn more about them. I kind of see Duncan as a young Inspector Lynley, but maybe that's just me...Find more reviews and bookish fun at http://www.princessandpen.com
Rating 4* out of 5. Superintendent Duncan Kincaid is going on a holiday in a timeshare house. It doesn't take very long before one of the people running the place is found dead. All of the sudden he is drawn into a murder investigation, holiday or not. This was very much a sort of Agatha Christie closed room murder mystery - one of the guests must have done it, but who? And why? Thoroughly enjoyable and I will certainly be reading more by Deborah Crombie.
A week's holiday in a luxurious Yorkshire time-share is just what Scotland Yard's Superintendent Duncan Kincaid needs. But the discovery of a body floating in the whirlpool bath ends Kincaid's vacation before it's begun. One of his new acquaintances at Followdale House is dead; another is a killer.
A Share in Death (Duncan Kincaid & Gemma James, #1).This book was a pleasure to read for several reasons.
Kincaid, Scotland Yard Superintendent, is sensitive to whatever circumstances or people he is dealing with at that moment and yet he can be stern and not allow anyone to take advantage or get the upper hand.
It proved to be a relaxing and interesting read.Superintendent Kincaid has a holiday coming to him thanks to his cousin who had to relinquish his time-share in the Yorkshires due to his pregnant wife being due at any time.
2.5 and I'm rounding up to a 3.
I think the timing may have been bad for this.
The writing had flashes of not brilliant but very good but as it went on it became less interesting and there wasn't enough character development to pull it through.
I'm hoping that it was just the start of the series throwing it off tho and that it gets better as it goes.
The setting and the main characters are promising so I'll give the second one a try before abandoning the series.
I also enjoyed the audio for this.
Four stars for the audio performance.
It was time.A Share in Death marks the beginning of Crombie's popular series featuring Scotland Yard superintendent Duncan Kincaid and his sergeant, Gemma James.
While readers do want change, there is a reason that readers turn to books that follow a conventional plot, and I think that's the case with this series.Another thing that I did not expect was the inclusion of points of view from characters other than Duncan and Gemma.
Probably not, but I did like the mystery and I do feel compelled to read further in the series to get to know the characters.
J. Rozan book and the author's apparent intention to frustrate readers' desire for SOME kind of resolution to the Bill+Lydia saga.
I looked ahead at descriptions of later books in this series and [don't finish this thought if you're definitely planning on reading the series and don't want any spoiling] figured I would not have the Rozan frustration.
(The author is not British and it occasionally shows.) Detective Superintendent Duncan Kincaid - newly promoted hot-shot, wasn't too appealing either, especially as the old "the locals are going to HATE this D.S. from London pushing themselves onto their turf" trope was played so very broadly.
I'm a great believer in reading books that are published in a series in order.
Was I surprised to find out that I had pretty much started in the middle of her Superintendent Duncan Kincaid and Sergeant Gemma James series.
So I'm starting at the beginning and filling in the back story before reading her latest book.
Duncan is given a week at a luxury timeshare and he plans to spent the week reading and exploring the nearby counryside.
An easy and entertaining read and a good start to one of my favorite mystery series.
This is the first in a long running series featuring Duncan Kincaid and Gemma James. The Scotland Yard Detective Superintendent, Kincaid, takes advantage of his cousin's time share in Yorkshire. Unfortunately, there is a murder, then another and then there are attacks on other guests. Kincaid must get involved much to the dismany of the local police. This was an interesting start to a series and I can't wait to read more.
I couldn't get past the poor quality writing and one-dimensional characters to give this book more than 1 star. Perhaps, as a couple of reviewers have suggested, her writing style improved in subsequent books, which would explain her relatively solid overall rating as an author. However in this novel, Ms. Crombie overuses the simile and the passive voice to create a novel that feels artificial and contrived.
A promising start to a new-to-me series, one that I look forward to reading more of Duncan and Gemma's investigations! This was a perplexing mystery and well drawn cast of characters and suspects.
Deborah Crombie is yet another author that Louise Penny had recommended on a recent Facebook post, when asked about her favourite authors.A Share in Death was her first novel, and at this time, she has seventeen of them in this very popular series.
As I said, this was her first novel, and it seems her novels improve over time, so serves to hold my interest for now.Something else that bugged me:(view spoiler)[The murders here seemed extreme overkill (haha) for the motive.
(hide spoiler)]Better luck next time.
3 stars for hopefully a promising start to a good series.
A Share in Death is a solid read but not one that I found particularly engrossing.
The murder at Followdale House, a holiday time share in Yorkshire, was an interesting setting and allowed for a disparate group of people as suspects.
I think I was a bit put off by the holidaying Inspector Duncan Kincaid’s proclivity for fancying just about every eligible - and not so eligible - woman he met.
Was he falling for the independent and brilliant scientist Hannah Alcock?
As Kincaid’s go to person for background sleuthing, Gemma’s empathetic and down to earth nature enabled her to dig up key background information.
Another English police mystery series and a new author to me. Superintendent Kincaid of Scotland yard becomes involved in a case despite the fact that he is on vacation. He tries not to become involved because of the usual conflict between local police and Scotland yard. I like the Kincaid character and, though we only briefly are introduced to his assistant, Sergeant Gemma James, I think the interplay between these two characters will add much to future books in the series.
If this first in the series is representative of all subsequent Deborah Crombie's Duncan Kincaid/Gemma James crime novels, I would place it firmly in the middle of the police procedural genre between more serious, darker ones like Elizabeth George or P.D. James books, and the lighter, more predictable cozy mysteries.
The two main characters are sympathetic and smart, the violence and gore are kept to a minimum, and the storyline was involving and good.
I liked it!
An adult-ed class on mysteries that I'm enrolled in is using this book as one of its texts, which indicates to me that it's deemed worthy by others, too.
Sayers, Arthur Conan Doyle, Josephine Tey, and my recent find and favorite, Anne Cleeland), I was excited to discover a new British police procedural, this one features Scotland Yard police duo, Superintendent Duncan Kincaid and Sergeant Gemma James.
The personal relationship between the main characters is less refreshing in that Kincaid and James come saddled with bruised hearts and emotional baggage.
Nevertheless, the characters were intriguing, (Duncan more so than Gemma), and the mystery plot was engrossing enough for me to want to delve a little more into this world.
Deborah Crombie's first book A Share in Death in her series about Scotland Yard detective Duncan Kincaid and his Sergeant Gemma James shows great promise for the series.
Duncan realizes that he will have to participate in some capacity with the investigation for it to be resolve successfully.It is a classic plot for a mystery with all of the suspects in one spot and forced to examine each others motives.
To aid in the investigation, Duncan sends his capable sergeant Gemma on a fact-finding tour about the resident guests of the time share.Characters are done with interest and the reader is caught up hoping that some are not involved in the felony and that others will not perish.
This was recommended to me last month, and I can't remember by whom, but I thought it sounded enough like the In Death series, that I would give it a try.
Just when I thought I had the mystery figured out, the detective has a flash of insight that we're not privy to and the book is ending!
I didn't care about the two detective main characters, and the plot only plodded along to an abrupt ending.
I picked up the last two books in the series on sale, so I may revisit this in a few months, but I'm not rushing to do so.
Very much an eh story. I'll continue with the series because other mystery lover friends of mine enjoy it but this wasn't the best of starts w me
First in Deborah Crombie's Gemma James and Duncan Kincaid series, this mystery is a good introduction to the characters and their motivations, backgrounds and methods in crime-solving.Duncan Kincaid is gifted a holiday week as a timeshare in Yorkshire.
Pulling a few strings helps to reduce the resentment of the local investigators who don't appreciate a stranger interfering with their 'turf'.The cast of characters was believable although as a first mystery this was not as polished as her later ones (I have read a couple of them and liked this author; so decided to start the series from the beginning).
Kincaid, way overdue for time off, decides to take his cousin's generous offer, planning not to mention his occupation at all to fellow vacationers, so that they can just know him as a generic fellow guest at the Followdale House.
Unfortunately, his anonymity is short-lived when, the first morning of his stay, he discovers the body of the assistant manager floating in the Jacuzzi.The local inspector is sure it is death by suicide, in spite of the fact that a space heater on an extension cord has been thrown off the upstairs balcony into the pool, and is still plugged in at the time the body is discovered.
It was evident that this book was to act as an introduction to a long lasting series containing the same main characters, hence interest and intrigue of those characters was set up, without much resolution to the personal conflicts they experience.The plot was straight forward and easy to follow; however, the writing proved to cause a bit of confusion when it came to descriptions of places and scenes that seemed important to the overall development of the plot and solving of the murder.As already mentioned, the main characters were introduced and interest was established, but not much was given to really build up a connection with those characters as a reader.
