https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/680115.Stick_and_Rudder
Don't let the 50s art of the cover fool you. This book is just as relevant and informative now as when it was originally written. Practical insights into understanding for pilots and those who are curious about how airplanes work. Cleverly written, this book does not become too technical, but remains grounded in the fundamental physics underlying flight.A very enjoyable read.
I thought this was a book about drag queens. Turns out it's about flying. I suspect that in the final analysis, the two aren't very different. I'll let you all know when I finish.***"Someone once said that if you will look at an airplane long enough, sit in it long enough, fool with the controls long enough you will decide you can fly it."Not this cowboy. Call Bernoulli's Principle whatever you want, it's still voodoo.
I've only taken a few flight lessons and wanted to get a better knowledge of the mechanics of flight.
This book was perfect.
It's usually what the reader is thinking (at least I was) and it felt oftentimes that it was more of a conversation which was great.This is one of the few flight books I've read so far so I can't easily compare it to others.
All those mentions of "Learn [flight stunt] to impress your girlfriend" or "Now you can even explain [flight mechanic] to your girlfriend so even she will understand!" really rubbed me the wrong way, but I'll let it slide.
If ever you aspire to take the controls of an aircraft, read this first.There's even some really good stuff about instrument flying, but (as the name suggests), it's really all about what you do with your hands and feet, and how you convince your brain to give the right orders!
(Thankfully, my CFIs do a great job and I did not find any of the "shocking" truths about the airplane controls to be actually all that radical, but what I already knew to be true.)One thing that may not be terribly relevant today is the discussions on landing, as they pertain mostly to taildraggers.
Chapter 19 is mostly a discussion of v-speeds, which is a useful discussion, but the author makes it sound as if it's impossible to determine what these numbers actually are for any given airplane.
All that said, I highly recommend reading this book to any pilot, student or not.
I can't add much to the general consensus. This should be required reading for anyone who wants to fly a fixed-wing craft. Parts of it are getting a little dated, though (it's over 60 years old), but it generally holds up quite well.For anyone interested in this book, let me also point you to John Denker's  See How it Flies , a really excellent discussion of flying techniques and aviation physics presented in a manner accessible to all pilots. It is a great compliment and follow up read to Stick
I can't add much to the general consensus. This should be required reading for anyone who wants to fly a fixed-wing craft. Parts of it are getting a little dated, though (it's over 60 years old), but it generally holds up quite well.For anyone interested in this book, let me also point you to John Denker's 
  See How it Flies
, a really excellent discussion of flying techniques and aviation physics presented in a manner accessible to all pilots. It is a great compliment and follow up read to Stick and Rudder and is available in it's entirety free online.
This book was fantastic! I've never read a more useful flying aid. Students who fly conventional geared (taildragger) airplanes are going to get the most out of this book. The last two chapters didn't hold up well to the rest. The author was also very thoughtful about "future improvements" to airplane design...but learning on very antique antiques is a very common thing in my area which made it idealistically cute. Good thing the rest was highly practical.
This should be the first (or next) book any prospective student pilot or current pilot reads (especially flight instructors). Instructor turnover at flight schools is rapid and increasing, leading to new pilots, who were trained by new pilots, training still newer pilots. This book contains the information that won’t necessarily be specifically asked for on a practical test, but that will keep pilots alive.
This book would be more aptly named "Don't be an idiot, get the stick forward (and also don't do that with your rudder)"It will take a while to read but it's worth trying to understand everything written in these pages.
I wish one day I'll be able to, constantly and unconsciously, know where the wind is coming from. :-)
Absolutely required reading for any aspiring pilot.
great book loved the simplicity of it while also explaining all that I need to know to start flying. Amazing!
Although the book was written over 60 years ago, the author's well explained concepts of flying an airplane basically have remained the same.
I think the author, Mr Langewiesche, was an "Einstein of flying" with a Mr. Roger's approach.
Great book if you like airplanes and flying.
I have learned a great deal of really important and fun airplane flying info.
I would tell you more about what I have learned from this great book, but I don't think there is enough ribbon in the keyboard to write more.
This is THE book on aerodynamics and the "why" of flying an airplane. While the language can be a bit old-fashioned and some chapters can bog down in the technicalities, it is remarkably clear, well-written, and easy to understand. Definitely written in layman's terms. Highly recommended for all pilots, but particularly those who want a deeper understanding of the physics of flight in pursuit of, yes, artfully flying an airplane. The additional chapters by Leighton Collins are an excellent addition, particularly his final contribution titled "Thin Air" which explains aircraft performance at altitude and in real-world scenarios.
Every pilot must read this book!: This is one of the most time-tested, authoritative texts in coupling the theory of flight to your actions in the cockpit. And it has not equations or complex concepts - written for you and me, this book will keep the engineers and the non-engineers hooked! The explanation for angle of attack is simply beautiful- the importance of the angle of attack can not be understanted. And the understanding you will gain from this book will help you fly every day.I highly recommend this book!
Really interesting book.
I now know how to fly an airplane (just in case I'm called for during my next cross Atlantic flight).
The book basically teaches the lay person how to fly an airplane (from the 40's - 70's so no GPS or ILS, but still relevant).
The take home message is that the stick does not make the plane go up or down; the throttle does not make the plane go faster or slower; and the rudder does not make the plane turn.
This is all completely counter intuitive, so I am very pleased that I read it so I don’t mess up my one chance of being a hero.
I suppose it's worth noting that I'm not a "real pilot." However, I fly remote control planes and have used a fair number of flight simulators and was able to notice a lot of the things I was doing wrong in hind sight.  This book provides a fairly basic view of the hard science aspects of flying, but more than makes up for it with the practical wisdom exhibited throughout. It was also interesting to get a view of flying from the 1940's as opposed to more recent views.
This little book tells you what the airplane does when the pilot does what he/she does. A lot of flying goes against "common sense" which is substantially based on a lack of understanding. Langewiesche is lucid in explaining what really happens in flight while not ignoring what people think happens. If you don't learn a lot from this you probably shouldn't be in a cockpit. This is how to overcome the knowledge you have that just ain't so.
Have you every had a book so full of exquisite detail and beauty you wanted to go through it line by line? Well this is one of those books, for me anyway. I absolutely love this book. I'm actually still maybe 40 pages from finishing it. I'm taking my sweet time and actually rereading sections multiple times. If you love airplanes, and want to learn about all the wonderful ways to fly them around, this is the real deal.
There's still no better book about flying 70 years later. This book restarted my flight training, allowed me to learn to land and showed me what really matters in flying small airplanes, allowed me to land correctly, and helped me make my first "pan pan" event a happy ending. Recommended for every pilot, from the first to the 10,000th hour.
This was hands down the best book about flying I have ever read.. If you want to clearly understand how an airplane functions and want to learn how to correctly control one, read this. Even though it was written in the 40's, nothing has really changed about an airplane and I have never found anything that explains aviation so well.
Terrific explanation of the control areas of an airplane, how they function, and what that means in the air. As a private pilot this explained a lot things that I was already doing but didn't understand the rationale behind and it also opened my eyes to some things I wasn't doing. I'm a safer and better educated pilot for reading the book and I encourage others to do the same.
This is one of the best books ever written on the subject of how to fly a plane. It approches the subject from the point of view of the pilot and does not the advanced physics required by the engineer. Every gate of the airplane is covered and discussed when and why the would be used. I would highly recommend this book to anyone that wants to understand how to fly a plane.
This book is a great book for introductory flight learning. It focus on the fundamental maneuvers by basic flight controls, which is not outdated even today. It's written in plain English, no complicated formulas. It discusses the principle first before entering into good and bad practices. The book gives a good understanding of flying the plane rather than sticking to standard procedures.
I WISH I had read this book when I started to learn to fly. It seems like the distillation of all the advice you could ever possibly receive from very single 'old pilot' or experienced instructor you could ever meet.Ignore this review and book if you are NOT a pilot, but treasure it if you are or want to be.
This was a good book about the essentials of flying. Despite its age, the principals still apply. I was mystified at the repetitive nature of some of the chapters, but it made sense after finding out that the chapters originally appeared as a series of articles.Essential reading for anyone who wants to learn how to fly.
Every pilot, whether GA or military, needs to read this book. If you don't readily understand the physics of "why" and "how" an aircraft flies, then this is for you. Excellent read overall on the fundamental nature of flying and the dynamics of flight. It truly is an "art."
Very clear and concise description on how planes are controlled and why the different controls do NOT do what you expect:- Elevator controls airspeed (not the throttle)- Throttle controls altitude (and rate of change)- Rudder keeps the nose pointed forwardRecommended for any student pilot.
The reading list for those training to become private pilots primarily consists of check-lists, FAA regulations and maps. This is a welcome break and a must-read for a "big picture" understanding of what you are learning.
"Stick and Rudder" is one of those books that should be on the shelf or e-reader of every pilot. It speaks in real language to aviators of ALL levels. A 'must have'.Owen ZuppAuthor: '50 Tales of Flight'http://www.amazon.com/dp/B00BKEDNMC
