https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/248704.It_s_Kind_of_a_Funny_Story
It's Kind of A Great Book
In respectful acknowledgment of Vizzini's suicide on 19 December 2013, I have cleared my rating of his book and removed my review.There is no more tragic occurrence in a family's life than the suicide of one of its members. My most heartfelt sympathy to Vizzini's wife and young son.
I didn't think the movie was great or anything, but I thought the idea of the story was interesting.
Only problem is that the teen ward is closed down so he is forced to live with the adult patients and meets an interesting group of people.This was a very touching story and one that everyone who has ever had depression can probably relate to even if just a small amount.
Even the most together person in the world can suddenly become depressed and the stigma attached to mental illness is something that infuriates me.Even though this book was made into a movie it doesn't seem too popular so maybe I'm in the minority.
(And while that is true for my personal experiences), I think it is extremely important we have a positive view of these situations as well so not to discourage individuals from entering a hospital that may very well save their life.Overall, I truly loved this book.
Definitely one of my new favorite mental illness novels!
(Let's be real, I say that every time I read a new mental illness novel bUT I MEAN IT THIS TIME.)  It's Kind of a Funny Story really stands out to me as a well-developed, beautifully constructed novel with an immense amount of depth and growth within it's pages.
my immediate reaction after reading this: its kind of a funny boring story.
first things first - i understand that this book was written the month after vizzini spent some time in a psychiatric hospital and was based on his own experiences there (hence my guilt for rating this so poorly).
however, as much as i hate criticising personal experiences, that was probably the only good thing about this book.
the main character is often described as having a ‘flat affect’, and thats exactly how i would describe this story - its just completely devoid of any sort of emotion.
Young Adult books seem to have a few formulas: divorce, unrequited love, death of a parent, self-transformation, and as of late...
Usually always angst.
As with the few that have been jostled around GR lately,Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close, The Book Thief ,I Am the Messenger ...
These authors will come along and break, twist, switch it up...make.you.think.
It’s Kind of a Funny Story centers on Craig Gilner, 15.
I don’t remember the be all end all of my parents having to complete college.
It’s truly beautiful.
I kept trying to excuse the narrator--he's fifteen, he's sheltered, he's a stupid kid who wants to have sex with every female-bodied person he encounters (minus the poor ones, duh)--but that's not fair to fifteen year old boys.
But, well, I'm a feminist and this book made me angry.)From the sexual assault survivor he teaches to love again (though his continued advances are clearly unwanted and unneeded), to the poor man he saves with the shirt off his own back, all of the other patients in Six North LOVE Craig and are sure to tell his parents what a great kid he is.
Take a good helping of "The Perks of Being a Wallflower," add a heaping spoonful of "Girl, Interrupted," and stir in a dollop or two of "Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close," and you'll have a good idea what you're going to get with "Funny Story." A week after the author, Ned Vizzini, was discharged from his own stay in the psychiatric ward of a New York hospital, he began the tale of depressed teen Craig Gilner.
What rings less true is Craig's almost-miraculous recovery and ability to gain a new lease on life after only five days.
When he gets accepted into the Manhattan's Executive Pre-Professional High School, Craig believes he is headed on the right track.
From there he meets the residents and gets on the road to better understanding his illness.I found this novel to be right on the mark.
I too have spent time in a mental hospital on suicide watch.
I felt Ned Vizzini handled the issues of anxiety, depression and suicide with humor (You'll understand the humor when you read the novel.) and tacked, even the cycling of thoughts is handled well.
I recommend this book to better understand the issues of anxiety, depression and suicide.
While I could relate to this book on some levels...
there was something about it that didn't quite gel with me.Was it the character?
I actually kind of like Craig.Was it the plot?
Nope.
I actually books that deal with psychological issues.Was it relatable?
It dealt with depression quite a bit.
Even had suicidal thoughts at some point.
So this was not it either.But I had a big problem with how the story was told.
It dragged out on a lot on the first part of the book.
In short it was a bit boring.
It took me a while to finish, but I liked it.Full review to come!
Rest in peace, so sorry he lost his fight.The plot of this book -- teenage boy admitted to mental hospital for five days to treat anxiety/depression -- is super close to my heart and I wanted to love it, but the execution reminds me way too much of John Green.
Vagina touching gets a lot of mention.Actually, it's not the teenage quest for sex that bugs me so much as the fact that in this book, like in Looking for Alaska, the first person boy protag is lusting after and objectifying a girl that specifically does not want to be objectified and is, in fact, made miserable when she is.
#BookTubeAthon Day 7, Book 7. Challenge:  Read and watch a book-to-film adaptation.I think if you liked We Are the Ants, then you’ll like this book. A story about a boy who deals with depression and anxiety and learning to manage it in the most beautiful way.
DNF at page 155 for personal reasons. I found this book extremely triggering for my anxiety and depression and could not continue.It's fantastically written though and I still recommend it if it sounds interesting to you!Trigger warning: suicide and suicidal thoughts, self-harm, depression, anxiety.
I read this in less than 24 hours. All I can say is, that it's still such an important read and one of all-time favorite books. I recommend it to everyone.
Up until a year ago he wasn’t an insomniac, could hold down more than four bites of food, didn’t break out in cold sweats, could finish his sentences, and didn’t have cycling thoughts about committing suicide.Through a series of events, Craig finds himself in the adult wing of the local psychiatric hospital where he meets a slew of different patients.
A semi-autobiographical coming-of-age novel, the postscript mentioned the following:“Ned Vizzini spent five days in adult psychiatric in Methodist Hospital, Park Slope, Brooklyn, 11/29/04-12/3/04.
It doesn't elude me that this book had similarities to Sylvia Plath's The Bell Jar, also semi-autobiographical, and much like Vizzini's life, hers ended much too early.
Despite its overly confident title, I failed to find the humor in It's Kind of a Funny Story. However, there were many things about this book that were, in fact, an absolute joke.I tend to be overly generous with regards to book reviews, so I let Funny Story take three stars. If I could, I would grant it two and a half stars, but that's not an option on Goodreads. And I will admit, there were a few things about the novel that I liked.I suppose I'll start with the good things, else I'll be too wo
And I will admit, there were a few things about the novel that I liked.I suppose I'll start with the good things, else I'll be too worked-up and frothingly-mad by the end of the criticism to actually say anything positive.
The first half of the book was earnest, genuine, and not exactly powerful but definitely memorable--Craig is basically a good guy, and the reader can sympathize (or empathize, depending) with the kid.
His friends seem like cardboard cutouts of teenagers (oh, wait, it's not time for negative criticism yet, is it?), but Craig remains fresh and realistic.
After one particularly bad night, Craig gets admitted into a psychiatric hospital.The story follows Craig before he became depressed - what he calls "the time when he was happy" - and after, showing his days in the hospital and the friends he makes there who are just as screwed up as he is.This was a very emotional story.
Some people think having a mental illness is "cool," a way to stand out, and that saddens me so much.
Craig's friend Aaron was this way, but the author showed how horrible depression really is.I think this could be a very important book for someone who has never experienced depression.
Depresyona girmiş bir karakterin hikayesi ancak bu kadar eğlenceli olabilir sanırım. Okumadan önce kapağının tatlılığına vurulsam da aklımda hep "bu kitap bayar mı ki ya, depresyon bu sonuçta?" diye bi düşünce vardı. Ama Craig'i o kadar sevdim ve okurken onu o kadar iyi anladım ki... Tuttum ben bu kitabı :')On beş yaşındayken intiharın eşiğine gelmek artık çok normalleşti sanırım. Çünkü hepimiz "başarıya" odaklanırken mutluluğu es geçtiğimiz bir dönem yaşıyoruz illa ki. Kaç yaşında olursanız olun, eminim okurken siz de Craig'le kendiniz arasında bi benzerlik bulacaksınız. Ve okuyun bu kitabı. MUTLAKA :')
Mostly because despite the theme It's Kind of a Funny Story tackles, it never lets things get on the melodramatic end of the storytelling spectrum, but also because it is one of the most lovely and lighthearted books I have read to this day.Depression is a weird little thing, because you can never really know when or why it started; you can't get tested and be diagnosed with it; you can't have an unsafe encounter with a really bad situation and boom, it's over, you have depression, no way to back out now.
An extremely bright teenager who realises the signs of his over-thinking mind and checks himself into hospital for having thoughts of suicide.
There are little funny bits here, and as I read this some time ago I am reaching for my thoughts, but the conversation Craig has with a telephone support person.
The nuances and self-deprecating thoughts of a very clever yet depressed teen seem to be so spot on.
Meeting a special friend in the hospital was a turning point for Craig, here is a favourite part for me, in the form of a handwritten note from a girl to a boy.
I really cannot describe how much this books means to me.
I read it for the first time when I was only twelve years old on a trip to Wisconsin and it helped me come to terms with a situation in my life I really couldn't understand.
I had read it many times between that and the last time I read it, sometime last year, when I felt almost exactly like the main character in this book did.
I really cannot say in any words how much this book helped me in my life.I hope Ned Vizzini knew how much his book helped people.
The book felt forcefully light; instead of focusing on the depression that is taking over Craig’s life, the final 75% of the book centers on the relationships Craig has and makes, and seems to leave the biggest, heaviest, most important part of the story behind to give way to not-so-funny one-liners and bad, bad jokes.
Maybe it's me being over-critical, or the fact that I know first-hand about depression and that I don't, in any way, think there's anything funny about it, but there's something about this book that has very seriously rubbed me the wrong way, whatever its source may be.
Having read a lot of these YA mental health books, I've started to notice this really annoying reoccurring theme of pretentiousness, so it was nice to find one that's a bit more down-to-earth with a main character who just seems like an average guy who anybody can identify with.
Not only is it more relatable, but I think it's important for teen readers who have a mental illness themselves to be able to find a character who shares their problems but who can also identify with the same types of concerns, lifestyle and dreams.Craig Gilner is a New Yorker with a huge dream - to get into one of the best high schools and get a good job along the way.
I love this book with all my heart. I read it on a trip to Cuba with my family and I spent the whole day reading. I didn't talk to anyone. I was in Cuba on the beach and all I wanted to do was read this piece of art.
Reviewed by Me for TeensReadToo.comNed Vizzini has a distinct advantage over other authors who write about teen depression, attempted suicide, and the ins and outs of psychiatry--as a teen he was clinically depressed and even spent time in a psychiatric hospital.
That experience has allowed Mr. Vizzini to bring to life the kinds of situations that were once largely absent in teen fiction; that of the fact that not all teens are happy, spontaneous, happy-go-lucky youths.
As he realizes he's clinically depressed, he tells his shrink--excuse me, psychiatrist--that his only joy in life comes from peeing.
Because this end is full of hope, and this hope wasn't enough for the author, and it breaks my heart to know some people won't ever recover from depression.But let's talk about this book a bit, shall we ?
I personally read this book when I was both feeling not really well and hopeful for the future.
I'm just proud of him.It's an amazing story, it deserves to be read by everybody - especially the families of those suffering from mental illnesses - it's really important.
A book about mental illness.
As a 20-year-old, all I can say is that  I wish I read this book while I was in middle-school  because as a teenager who coped with a mental illness, I would have found Craig’s situation to not only be relatable, but insightful.
Even after going to see a physician and therapist, it’s difficult for Craig to see his depression as an illness and when he’s reassured by his mental health team that it is normal for patients to feel this way, instead of feeling reassured, he ends up feeling worse.
AccidentallyThis is a book about a kid who thinks about killing himself but doesn't.
You also missed me talking about myself in ninth grade and how I related to this passage:"How long have you had feelings like that, Craig?""Since last year, mostly.""What about before then?""Well...
Even before high school, I thought it would be a cool thing to do if I ever got really famous."I also talked a bit about the kids in Bergenfield, New Jersey who in 1987 killed themselves.
I didn't add a link to the song "New Jersey Exit" by Alice Donut because I couldn't find a version of it online.
I started off really liking the book because Craig is a character that I found easy to relate to, as I have depression and some similar thoughts to his.
At that point it became all about sex and how much he wanted it, and sex was treated like the key to overcome his depression...all wrong.
That's not how it works, especially since some of the threads of Craig's thoughts (ie.
I would be able to excuse that kind of ending for the sake of the plot if it weren't for that, because it felt really inconsistent, it felt like an easy fix.
