https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/207896.Discourse_on_Thinking
This work is an important step upon the path of thinking, the thinking of the later Heidegger, focused on the thought around the word of the title: Gelassenheit, or Releasement (as it is translated here).Those who reject the Conversation on a Country Path in favor of the Memorial Address miss the essential importance of Heidegger's thinking, and the place that the Conversation holds in that thinking.
It is of little value in relation to the Conversation, which is an attempt at expressing this thought itself, or the opening for this thought to occur; one might say an attempt at opening the spacing of thought as releasement.Those that condemn the Conversation, thinking the Memorial Address is all that is of value here miss the mark completely.
This more deeper thinking is not one which hinges on my “will.” In fact, it is characterized by non-willing, by negation of my will, renouncing willing itself by being open to and dwelling-in the world, letting-in the releasement of that-which-regions—it is, at bottom, a “waiting” and a “patience.” At the end of the piece, Heidegger summarizes this type of thinking as “moving-into-nearness” or “letting-oneself-into-nearness.” It is, so we discover through the course of the conversation, the nature of man to think in this way: “Man, as in-dwelling in releasement to that-which-regions, would abide in the origin of his nature, which in consequence we may paraphrase: man is he who is made us of for the nature of truth.
His concern about the outcome of this kind of thinking is 'thoughtlessness', a concept that Heideggers former protégé Hannah Arendt would construe as the 'banality of evil' in a more political context concerning the psychological profile of Adolf Eichmann.The three-way dialogue ('Conversation on a Country Path [Feldweg]'), written in 1944-1945 is the more interesting of the two texts when a scientist, a scholar and teacher debate about the true 'nature' [Wesen] of thinking - a meditative [besinnliches] way of thinking that lies beyond the human distinction of activity and passivity.
The power concealed in modern technology determines the way that man relates to that which is—i.e., to everything.
In this way, man’s essential nature (Menschenwesen) will be saved: we will remember our essential rootedness (Bodenständigkeit)— our immediate relation to Being—which calculative thinking and the forces of modern technology have caused us to forget.2.
This way of thinking is called “calculative thinking” in the Memorial Address.The mystery of man’s nature is his capacity for meditative thinking, a thinking that remains absolutely outside any kind of will—thinking “as” other than willing.
Man exists in this relation, and his very nature is this in-dwelling in releasement to that-which-regions.
I loved the Memorial Address portion.
As for the Conversation (a contemplation on the nature of thinking between a scientist, scholar, and teacher) portion, I had a difficult time keeping track of what was being said.
I think this was partly due to the fact that the translation produced odd sentence structures and terms (such as "that-which-regions," a clunky translation of a single German word), and also partly due to the fact that I might need to read through it more slowly and deliberately, and perhaps do supplementary reading on the ideas Heidegger is presenting.
Overall it certainly inspires some thinking..
about thinking!
I'm shocked that I'm the first person to give this one star.Heidegger has this chronic problem of purposely obfuscating his message behind ill-defined terminology. Maybe this is a function of poor translations. Here's a sample sentence:"That is the nature of releasement into which the regioning of that-which-regions regions man. We presage the nature of thinking as releasement.... Releasement to that-which-regions is thinking only as the regioning of releasement, a regioning which releases releasement into that-which-regions."Seriously. Make heads or tails of the above statement.
While still steeped in the proprietary language of philosophy, this brief text is certainly readable, and the key ideas tend to rise to the surface (particularly in the dialogue portion of the book). It does require a few feats of mental acrobatics to follow and there are sections that must be read several times. If you’re inclined to small doses of philosophy, and if you don’t mind deciphering a text as much as reading it, then I’d recommend this as an entry point to Heidegger.
I'd forgotten how much fun reading philosophy could be....
Heidegger has a lot to say that applies to modern politics, including my favorite statement, "man today is in flight from thinking."Sigh.
Just read the Memorial Address. Good shit. Hoping to read the entire works.
Martin Heidegger ya en 1955 nos cuenta como la tecnología va ganado territorio en nuestra forma de ser, de sentir y de pensar, o sea la forma en que condiciona nuestra vida en todos los sentidos. El pensar meditativo y el pensar calculador que más haya de plantearselos com un par de opuestos en realidad son complementarios, deben estar presente ambos, pero en forma equilibrada contrariamente a lo que sucede actualmente con los seres humanos donde el que predomina es el pensar calculador. Obra muy recomendable y de fácil lectura
One of the best discussions on the concept 'commemoration' I have ever enjoyed!
Heidegger situates this calculative thinking, which humans practice most of the time, within consciousness; this constitutes the foundation for the subject-object relationship.
The willing of those who listen meditatively is, in fact, more willing than the self-assertion of modern humans; it is “the willingness of those who say more sayingly,” Heidegger writes in another essay.
In a certain way, meditative thinking makes a lot more sense than calculative thinking, at least when it comes to preserving what, in fact, makes us human in the first place.
Easy little read, with some interesting anecdotes. My favorite was the difference he made when it comes to humans and waiting, humans waiting "for" and humans waiting "upon".
It's written by the translator, which is suggestive of what's to come.The first piece of Heidegger's is a speech on the role of technology and creativity in the modern world, and it's a rich source of ideas distilled to a short speech.
It lacks the inherent joie de vivre of even the driest Zen texts, a flaw probably in the original but not helped by some very dodgy translation decisions.
In short, if you're an STS scholar, find a free copy of the Memorial Address somewhere and save yourself a world of pain.
This book was a let down. It is very easy to read but that is part of the problem. The first essay is an address he delivered in which he talks about the need to think. He doesn't get into any philosophy and this represents his conservative social values. The second section, the Dialogue has some good bits of Heidegger's philosophy in it but I found it more distracting than informative.
This was read for Tom Sheehan's "Contemporary German Thought-Heidegger" course during the second semester of 1981/82 at Loyola University Chicago.
Leímos Serenidad y Hebel, el amigo de la casa (además de Thullier, Galasso, un texto sobre Planolandia y otro sobre Kusch...)
I read this in pieces for class, but it is some of the most convoluted of Heidegger's writings. The "Conversation on a Country Path" is nearly unreadable.
