https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2702246-the-blank-wall
The way these facets are strung together leave a lasting impression of somebody who you can respect and want to hug.At one point in The Blank Wall the character dismisses English mysteries where you are made not to care for the victims of crime or the perpetrators, their over reliance on the puzzle or the mechanics of the crime, and with one tightly written little book the author shows them how she thinks it should be done.
I'm sure it was Tfitoby but I was wa-wa-ing about how no women write hard-boiled and/or noir and Tfitoby said "have you read Elizabeth Holding?"No, I had never heard of her but she got Raymond Chandler's stamp of approval so told him I'll try her.
Great advice from a great guy (not Chandler but Tfitoby.) Raymond Chandler said "For my money she's the top suspense writer of them all.
I recommend for your attention, if you have not read them..." He named this book and The Innocent Mrs. Duff.
If he doesn't know a great book when he reads one, than who does?
Swinton was real for me in 'Kevin' and I never felt anything like the answers for yourself, the willed shut, in The Deep End. Could be me, though.
I felt like a pretty good book became much, much less around this time.
Lucia is like a little girl assuring herself they'd do without her if she died and wanting to be needed.
Sometimes I hoped Holding was going to follow the Lucia that was afraid she was wrong, the world wasn't good, no one needed her and she was caught.
What a mother will do to protect her family after her Daughters beau is killed.Loved this mystery which had twists and turns .The golden age of the detective novel.Beautifully written .Was made into a film in 1949 called The Reckless Moment.So glad that Persephone have republished it.
A suspense novel written by a now-nearly-forgotten writer who was greatly admired by both Alfred Hitchcock and Raymond Chandler.
I look over the Goodreads reviews and find that most people were interested by the same thing I was--the "dated" quality of the main character's preoccupations and motives.
As a thriller it is only average, if that; but as a window on how a real upper-middle-class housewife during WWII might handle the sudden disruption of her carefully maintained world, it is extremely interesting.
Present writers producing novels set before the mid-20th century all seem to project their own interests onto the characters.
This one is the real thing, actually written at the time it represents.
Unlike Highsmith’s books, however, in which the typical protagonist is an anxiety-ridden, marginally employed man, The Blank Wall stars an otherwise respectable housewife, Lucia, who’s running the house while her husband serves in World War II.
Lucia applies her well-honed problem-solving skills to each intractable obstacle, meanwhile feeling beleaguered by her family--she’s always cleaning up after them without an iota of recognition, the corpse is only the latest--as well as generally invisible.
And who’s more invisible than a capable, middle-class white suburban housewife?
Her even more capable African American housekeeper (of course), who after eons of service remains a cipher to her employers (of course).
Instead, Elisabeth Sanxay Holding uses the structure of a crime story, and the pressure-pot situation of trying to cover up said crime, to examine the mental capacity of her central character.
This most prominently includes the position of women; the expectation for mothers to always put their families first, and the importance of keeping up appearances within certain class circles.I also really liked the subtle though clever look at race relations in 40s America.
The family's black maid, Sybil, is easily the most sympathetic character in the book.
The brief glimpse Sanxay Holding gives us of Sybil's past also does much to criticise the treatment of black people at the time.An altogether classy, well written, and tightly plotted read.
Another in my new quest to read all things crime noir, set in the 40's and 50's.
However this one was kind of a clunking dud.A woman is witness to something awful, then through a series of very-contrived maneuvers, done in the attempt to 'protect her family,' she makes the awful even more awful.
(I'd run away, have a mad affair and start a new family if I was her).
They seem like a series of scenes from the Drew Carey Show.
Anyhow, it just cannot stand up to the other superb crime noir novels I've been reading.I shall not put Ms. Holding on my list for further reads...Two deadly dull stars.
It was a wonderful read, and after researching it more I have discovered it was made into a film in the 1940s called 'The Reckless Moment' with James Mason that I have seen numerous times and never twigged!!Lucia is a plain, unexciting housewife with 2 children (Beatrice and David) and a husband at the other side of the world who she can only contact by letter.
I really enjoyed the story, but found towards the end that Lucia came across as rather weak and pathetic and I wasn't as impressed with her as I had been at the start.
Not a bad debut for my reading of Elisabeth Sanxay Holding.
It is not so much a whodunit as a psychological exploration of how one woman's domestically tranquil life is shattered by the impulsive actions of her 17-year-old daughter, and all the decisions she makes (with the vital assistance of her African American maid Sybil) to try to deal with that crisis.The plot begins with Lucia Holley discovering that her daughter Bee has been associating with an obvious cad on the make named Tom Darby who is twice her age.
I consider myself quite lucky to have found this novel because it's so nicely done I couldn't stop reading it once I'd picked it up.
It is not what I'd call a typical suspense/crime novel, so anyone who may be considering it might want to make note of that fact.
[if you want a very brief look at plot, no spoilers, click  here for my reading journal.
I can seriously and highly recommend this novel to readers of vintage crime, and to readers who enjoy crime fiction written by women.
Parts were good, but I for one can't say that I loved this. Just not the right time for it I suppose. Definitely a woman's thriller, a mother is the main character. It just seemed to me that so much effort in the book is made by an innocent person to cover a crime. I mean, I know it was the late 1940s, but still. Maybe just call the police.
I enjoyed this little suspense novel, although there were elements of the plot that I was unconvinced were realistic – of course the novel was written in a different time, and people may have acted in ways which to our modern thinking seems bizarre.
Anyway despite being unconvinced by some of the plot – the novel remains a taut suspenseful read: quite unputdownable and, I should imagine a great example of suspense type novels of this period.
I adored Sanxay Holding's The Innocent Mrs. Duff, and was very much looking forward to The Blank Wall, her more famous novel. It demonstrates the length that one woman is willing to go to in order to protect her family. To anyone familiar with Sanxay Holding's work, it will come as no surprise that the whole is incredibly well written, and excellently paced. I didn't quite enjoy it as much as the former due to the slightly predictable ending, but it is still a wonderful novel, which I would very much recommend.
This book ended up being really fun! Excited to have finally read my first Persephone :)
Picked up this book in the Persephone Bookshop in London. They publish lots of older, forgotten fiction, especially women writers. I can only urge you to take a look when you encounter one of their grey books - they have a great selection.The Blank Wall is a very intriguing noir thriller, published in the late 40s originally. It was very well written and un-put-downable. Won't go into the story, you'll have to read for yourself ;) that's is all I'll say!
I think this is what they mean when they say a page-turner. For Patricia Highsmith fans.
I made notes here on the latter novel a couple of weeks ago; I've now read The Blank Wall.As I wrote on GoodReads, I enjoyed The Innocent Mrs. Duff a lot, but had a few small reservations.
Part of my experience of reading the novel was thus noting the differences between Holding's original and the Tilda Swinton movie.
. .There's more, much more, including murder, as Lucia tries to cope with the fact that Donnelly has apparently fallen in love with her even as she has to meet the expectations and demands of her family while, she hopes, staying under the radar of the astute cop who's investigating Darby's death.
Everyone treats her like a child, from her father to her children (15 and 17!); she has little to no privacy, and yet they all expect her to hold the home ties together.
Lucia, who starts with such low esteem of herself, grows into a fully rounded woman, full of resourcefulness and resolve.While being the most unlikely setting for a thriller, the suspense grows, slowly, surreptitiously, psychologically even, and doesn’t relent until the end.
Holding doesn’t just focus on the crime and whether the culprit will be arrested, but rather on the characters.
Here is Lucia dealing with blackmail and worrying about doing the dishes and the beds.
So did the many small inconveniences of daily life in a small America town during wartimeLucia’s life, once so certain, was certain no more.She had to keep her family safe, but she struggled to balance that with the demands of her children, her father, her home, her community.Her behaviour, her attitude, became less and less rational, and at times I was infuriated as I watched her, but I really couldn’t have come up with a better plan.Overall the balance of the book is lovely: perfect family and domestic details on one side of the scale, and classic suspense on the other.And a mystery driven so well by character is a wonderful thing.The ending maybe tilted a little too much towards melodrama, but it didn’t matter.
I was already hooked by the story and the characters, and it did round things off nicely.Elizabeth Sanxay Holding has been compared to both Ruth Rendell and Patricia Highsmith.
A 1940s American housewife gets mixed up with the underworld when trying to protect her daughter from the consequences of seeing an undesirable man. I found the setup here very funny - several laugh out loud moments. The characters are great and I really felt for Lucia trying to protect her family while her husband is away at war. Her father is so sweet too! The ending was a little bit of a disappointment for me - it worked, but it didn't add anything. But I loved reading the American 'home front' WW2 perspective for a change.
My library doesn't have this but they have the movie "The Deep End" which was based on it. C'mon guys, where's the bibliophilia? Somehow it bothers me more when the library only has a movie or audiobook and not the actual book than when they have nothing.
3,5 stars. My review: https://theblankgarden.wordpress.com/...
Slightly above average. More suspense than mystery. Well written.
This is a really gentle but clever murder mystery of sorts.
Written in 1947 but set three years into the American side of WW2.
The murders, are two, the first probably manslaughter the second definitely murder all take place in a sleepy coastal community and involve a middle class family.
We spend a good deal of time inside the mother’s as she schemes and plans her way to pay off a blackmailer whilst protecting her family.
The characters are of their time and believable.
It’s a good read and I gobbled it up in a day.
Living in the U.S. during World War II, Lucia copes capably with household glitches and challenges like a malfunctioning refrigerator, shortages and rationing, and her two teenage children. But when a member of her family is accidentally involved in a crime, Lucia will do anything to protect her family. What keeps this noir story grounded as Lucia slowly becomes enmeshed in a series of coverups are the many every day details and realistic feelings of the very believable heroine.
She has a teenaged daughter and son, and her older father lives with them.
The man shows up at their house, but is not let in by Mom. He goes down to the boat house to wait for the daughter to come.
Soon after, another man shows up and lets Mom know that he has a batch of letters written by her daughter to the man, which, if given to the press would put the young girl into an unwelcome situation.
Through all of this, Mom manages to keep her daughter out of it all, and to further shield her Dad and her son.
I think Louise has got me completely hooked on the Persephone books now.Lucia is an upper-middle class mother trying to raise two teenage children during WWII, while her husbands serves in the Pacific.
well, not an entirely independent woman, and not necessarily a wiser woman.
I love how her daughter criticizes her for not being "modern" enough, for not knowing anything of the world, when as the reader, knowing what Lucia knows, we see how foolish teenagers can be.
Lucia's experiences do not necessarily improve her.


