https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/310146.The_True_Confessions_of_Charlotte_Doyle
But for several years after I just started to read YA novels, I thought this book was the epic shit.
I also read some of the other reviews here for this book, and I have to say, on behalf of ten year-old Isaiah, that you're missing the point.
Ten year-old Isaiah doesn't give a damn if it's implausible that the lace-frilled, permed and buxom Charlotte reject her social mores, jump on a ship and start swabbing and mizzen yard-arming.
There's a reason this book won a Newberry, and it's not because 30 year-olds recognized how historically inaccurate it is.
It's because 10 year-olds recognized how AWESOME it is.
Charlotte makes a completely implausible personality shift.
We are supposed to swallow this, despite the fact that, at the beginning of the book, she completely believes in the values of her society (that she is superior to the crew, that any type of physical labor is beneath her, etc.).
Add to this the fact that Avi makes feeble attempts at duplicating the language of the time period, and I just couldn't handle the book.
However, this book's complete failure to tell a story that is in keeping with the heroine's personality makes it, in my opinion, an unworthwhile read.
When I was about 12 or 13 years old I read this book.
Before this book, I had read all other required material but was not a passionate or avid reader.
After this book I have a passion for reading and literature that is very strong.
There are so many books that my mind is open up to now, and I really cannot imagine the idea of not loving to read.If you have a pre-teen girl, that does not like to read currently...
It opened millions of doors for me, and I just really hope it would for her as well.This book is about a heroine of outstanding strength and moral character.
I was a huge fan of Avi when I was in grades 4-6 and The True Confessions of Charlotte Doyle was my #1 favorite.
I decided to read it to my secondary 1-2 ( grade 7&8) students as a read-aloud, reading one chapter before the beginning of our lessons.
The transformation of Charlotte from the beginning of the story until the end, the fascinating insight into life on a 19th century ship, class differences, race differences, and intrigue on the high seas.
My students only disagreed with the author on one event that comes at the end of the story.
Avi is an incredibly accomplished author, and this smoothly written work is well-constructed with a good dose of adventure.
Moreover, it was absolutely unbelievable that the crew would accept her offer to work as a sailor.
By the book's end she her values had changed, but she was no less priggish in her adherence to this new set of values.
I know that MANY people disagree with this assessment, and less-historically inclined readers will find this a rollicking good adventure.
Despite a major flaw in the book's historical realism and my personal reaction to the character, this is a well-written and carefully constructed work.
If I had known how awesome this book is, I might have read it sooner.
It's one of those books in my library that I hadn't noticed, and probably wouldn't have noticed if my sister and friend hadn't read it, loved it and started urging me to pick it up.
I need a moment to applaud this book, OK.
On a totally random note, this would make a epic movie.
Can someone please make a movie out of this??
If it was handled well, and followed the book pretty accurately, it would be flipping AWESOME.
Set in England in the 1830’s, this high suspense historical fiction story takes place on a ship carrying thirteen year-old Charlotte Doyle, a young lady of proper upbringing, home to her family in Providence, Rhode Island.
A major theme in the book is the conflict that arises when Charlotte acts outside the expected gender conventions of the time.
A compare and contrast study of the social expectations of young people today with those of the early 1800’s focusing on expected roles as they relate to gender would be an appropriate activity for upper elementary to middle school students studying this book.
Is it possible that I have never reviewed this book?! Or maybe I've just reviewed another edition? Whatever the case, this book is fantastic! A young, respectable girl returning from her English boarding school to her home in Massachusetts ends up caught in the middle of a mutiny, and pressed into service as a sailor. Wonderfully descriptive, with meticulous detail about life on board a ship, readers of all ages and sexes can enjoy this book.
This book represents so much of my middle school years, and so many day-dreams, that I hardly know where to begin with it. I love this story. In my imagination, I've written countless sequels. Charlotte is my friend and playfellow and her fellow sailors remain some of my favorite people. This book will always be near and dear to my heart.
This isn't something I would have read if the librarian hadn't handed it to me, but I'm glad she did. Charlotte's struggle to decide who to trust was intriguing, and the description of the ship, complete with an appendix and drawings was excellent. It was an exciting and also thoughtful book.
I read this originally at 13, so Charlotte's age, and chaffing for something other then Fear Street, Sweet Valley, Poirot and Anne McCaffrey.This felt like a breathe of fresh air and I am indebted to it for the simple fact it gave me a reason to broaden my reading horizons to historical fiction (mostly of the romance kind).But n this reread - the first time in 21 years I've picked the book up again - I was so uttetly bored I worried I had read a different book as a child.
The voyage does not have an auspicious beginning – the two families who were meant to travel with her do not appear, so she is left without a guardian or supervision on board a merchant vessel whose captain everyone seems to want to avoid.The environment of the ship is new and scary but, although frightened, Charlotte keeps her wits and her manners and slowly warms to the offered friendship of an old black man, Zachariah.The captain is cruel and contemptuous of his crew, but Charlotte is offended by the stories Zachariah tells her, her understanding of hierarchy is so ingrained.
I have now read this novel, well, 13 times.
This novel is okay, but it is definitely not of a "read thirteen times" caliber.
The first reading was when I was a sixth grade student; it was a class novel.
Ironically, I now teach this novel to middle school students.
Believe it or not, we read the novel in its entirety - which means I read it three times through a year.
However, just like I promised the kids, the book picks up.
By the time we get to the middle of the book, kids are BEGGING to read more.
I think any Newberry Award should be 4 stars, at least, but the ending of this novel is so particularly bad that I can't give it more than 2 stars.
It would be interesting to young children to know more about life in the early 19th century, especially a sea voyage.
I hope that's the part that got the Newberry.The end is wrong for so many reasons!
A young girl choosing to abandon a comfortable life and good education to become a sailor?
The life of a poor woman in that century was not something any girl, no matter how young and naive, would choose.
I didn’t realize how important Avi and his books were to me as a young girl until I met him at an ALA conference one year and I just BURST into tears and I couldn’t speak, at all, let alone coherently.
Which surprised me, because don’t all women of my age cry all over him, gasping about how important his books were to them when they were little girls?
I wasted a good cry.Poor man.
Ok, it’s not a horrible book, but after reading this as an adult, I see where it is more for a younger audience.
This book is also part of my Newbery quest.
To be honest, I don't know how this book won.
It reminded me of nothing so much as a sanitized Moll Flanders for children (no prostitution).
It has that antiquated-pulp feel, implausible and sensationalistic.
On top of that, the tone was so grim and dark that it lacked the fun and engaging-ness I want from a children's book.
The only interest was in the sensationalism of the story...but there is truly something amiss when a Newbery-honoree children's book reads like a guilty pleasure.
At first, the main character, Charlotte, really made me annoyed. But in the end...I really liked her.
A 13 year old girl in a tall ship surrounded by seasoned and brutish sailors!
Ironically, the book is structured according to her character development.
In Part One, she is a snobby girl concerned with manners and status who looks down upon the crew.
In Part Two, she is wearing a sailor's outfit and wants to join the crew (out of remorse).
My students who have read this book have mixed reactions.
None of the girls that read it particularly liked it (which is telling, because there is a lot of talk about girls being able to break social norms in the book but it does not go deep).
I have read this book so many times.
I started out borrowing it from my library all the time, until finally I found my own copy.
It's my favorite book by Avi, who is truly a very gifted storyteller.
The book focuses on 13-year-old Charlotte Doyle, making the passage (alone) from England to Providence, Rhode Island, to be reunited with her family.
They've taken care of all the arrangements, booking her passage aboard the Seahawk.
But from the moment she first steps on board, Charlotte senses that there is danger on the ship.
Avi spins his magic.
This is my favorite book from my pre teen years and nineteen years later, I sat down to re read it.
Charlotte Doyle is a thirteen year old young lady traveling via ship from England to America in 1832.
The captain, tho charming at first, shows his true colors and a ship mutiny occurs.
Then, this young lady dons a pair of breeches and joins the crew.
Will the crew come to her aide?
There is no end to the excitement and it is a quick read for adults.
It really does feel as tho one is reading a girl's journal.
This book was almost good. The main part of the book is written well and is interesting. The high society girl has to cross the ocean by herself and ends up working with the crew as she gets to know them. The book is ruined at the end when we're supposed to believe her choice and applaud her for it. Sorry, I neither believe her character would make that choice, nor do I applaud the idea of ditching your family in the middle of the night...la di da...the end.
I loved this book as a kid and decided it was time for a reread. Is it absurd that Charlotte goes so quickly from well-bred Victorian girl to being part of the sailing crew? Yes. Is it just as delightful as I remembered? Also yes.
I thought it was a good book. I am not a big fan of historical fiction but I liked this book.
Holy cow. Quite interesting. I'm still recovering. I... I'm not sure if I liked it or not...
My students never even glance at it, so I picked it up hoping I could do a "Don't judge a book by its cover" review for them.
The book picks up at part two and ends in a very satisfying way, but I don't think they would make it that far.I enjoyed Charlotte's drastic character change.
She was a loathsome little thing at the beginning; haughty and judgmental, and it was gratifying to see her change throughout the events of the story into a more independent, open-minded woman.
I very rarely give out 5 stars, so get thee to a bookshop and read this riveting, coming of age, adventure of a young girl!
The book is really good. I enjoyed watching the changes in Charlotte throughout the book.
This was my first reading of Charlotte Doyle. I'm not sure how I missed this in my childhood. I read it aloud to the kids and we really enjoyed it. In fact, I read for two hours this morning just because it was too exciting to stop. We loved the adventure, it was fast moving and kept us wondering how the story would unfold.
Even in truly bad books, there are some surprises, but there were none in The True Confessions of Charlotte Doyle.
Real life isn’t like that, believe me, especially when it comes to men.Charlotte is a boring, predictable character who changes very little throughout the novel.
Speaking of sickening, it is obvious that Avi was trying to shove symbolism into the novel, especially when Captain Jaggery snaps and his formerly immaculate cabin is all broken and poorly prepared.
But historical accuracy isn’t everything and nothing can redeem The True Confessions of Charlote Doyle, not even its status as a classic YA novel.I give this book 0.5/5 stars, rounded up to 1 star for Goodreads rating purposes.
She never makes a wise decision through the whole book and takes what feels like a longer than normal amount of time to catch on to things that both the readers and the other characters have all caught on to.I am not sure what advice I would give this author, except to stop writing.
I was just not impressed.To be fair...this book was published in 1992, and I read it in 2012, so maybe that has something to do with it.Enough is enough, though.
I think I'm going to plead with my book club for some more adult reads.
