https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/130511.Riding_the_Iron_Rooster
Paul Theroux’s travels through China took place in the mid ‘80’s, which makes most of the political content somewhat dated (not to mention repetitive to the Nth degree).
Everyone in China that he comes across gets questioned about the changes in the political climate, specifically the differences between Mao and the reforms of Deng (the Chinese leader at the time the book was written).
I would assume most people pick up his travelogues for his POV and not specifically the destinations and in this book he's generally pretty even-handed in his portrayals of the people he meets.
3 Things about Riding the Iron Rooster:(1) land sakes, Paul Theroux does not like human beings!
he seem like a very disdainful and contemptuous person in general.
that disdain and contempt certainly includes the Chinese - which was an off-putting and distancing thing to experience when reading a travelogue concerning China.
so it's not like Theroux doesn't have a good read on his own personality and his maybe-not-so-secret desires.
on the other hand, Theroux, who is a person i have no interest in knowing, is all bite (and lots of bark too).
he doesn't care and he writes it like he sees it.
you know, like feet.
While I sat and read I noticed that the people opposite, after only a few hours, had amassed on their table…… duck bones, fish bones, peanut shells, cookie wrappers, sunflower seed husks, three teacups, two tumblers, a thermos, a wine bottle, two food tins, spittings, leavings, orange rinds, prawn shells and two used nappies.They could be very tidy, but there was also something sluttishly comfortable about an accumulation of garbage, as though it were a symbol of prosperity.In the north of China he makes us feel the cold, right down to our bones.It was 5.30 on a Harbin morning, the temperature at minus thirty-five Centigrade and a light snow falling – little grains like seed-pearls sifting down in the dark.
450 pages of train rides, blurred landscapes, glib conversations, and Paul Theroux's relentlessly consistent authorial voice throughout, cramming in detail after detail from a year-long journey throughout China in 1987; it became a reading challenge more than a pleasure.
I wonder how it is that these things could have changed so quickly: my bicycle lock can be unhinged by a sharp gust of wind.
In the 80s, Theroux embarked on his second trip to China, making it a point to take every train possible to visit every corner of the country.
However, that's when the Chinese government notices that there's a white guy travelling to these remote parts of China and thus, keep sending a chaperone to accompany Theroux (it happens in Xinjiang, Tibet, Heilongjiang, Yunnan...).
In some ways Hong Kong was somewhat like Britain itself: a bunch of offshore islands with an immigrant problem, a language barrier and a rigid class-system."I can't wait to read the next Paul Theroux book!One of the Boxer chants in 1900 was:'Surely government banner men are many;Certainly foreign soldiers a horde;But if each of our people spits once.
Also amusing that they didn't know who he was, and discussing the Great Railway Bazaar.So on into China, where each train trip is described, along with his fellow travellers, then his exploring of the destination, and again, the people he meets.I particularly enjoyed the way Theroux interprets the ubiquitous Chinese laugh, used at the end of a sentence to express any number of things."The laugh meant emphatically Don't bring that up.""This ha-ha meant Rules are rules.
We moved to China this year, largely ignorant of China's history, both recent and ancient. This book was incredibly eye-opening as to what the cultural revolution entailed, what it did to Chinese culture and people, and how much things have changed here since the book was written. Theroux captures the essence of China quite clearly for us. While he seems unlikeable or crabby at times, he is also very real and very clear about what travelers oftentimes must endure for the sake of a journey, of learning, of stretching.
Theroux, who has a passion for trains, wandering, and gossip, found many changes in China since his first visit of several years earlier.
The cultural revolution was uniformly hated by everyone he spoke with and the change in the people could be measured by the change in their slogans.
Formerly when students were asked what they wanted to do with themselves they would reply, "to serve people." A book filled with interesting tidbits.I should note, as an avid reader of Airways magazine that airlines in China have improved tremendously, have terrific equipment today, and service standards far exceeding United's.
Theroux's book is quite dated in that respect.
Want to understand China? Read this along with Peter Hessler's Rivertown and you will get a pretty good picture.Unlike most travel writers, Theroux is cynical, and accordingly perhaps a little more insightful. Anne Tyler may have written "The Accidental Tourist", but Theroux is certainly the reluctant tourist.
Este é o provérbio chinês que o autor pretendeu desmentir ao penetrar nos meandros daquele mundo distante, ancião, com quarenta séculos de história registrada, e cujo tempo tem dimensão própria, diferente da nossa.
Perambulou pela China desde Mongólia ao Cantão, de oeste a leste, ele conseguiu vivenciar todo tempo o quanto foi forasteiro.
Apenas conseguiu se parecer com um chinês, nos hábitos, na indiferença, ou complacência pelo exótico e o diferente.
Mesmo que seu povo percorra de trem por todo lado, não conseguimos desmentir a imobilidade do império.
Theroux is not afraid to ask intrusive questions of anyone he meets and has a certain lack of tact about what subject to address ie, nothing stops him.He did find,however, that while the Chinese simply didn't answer if they didn't want to they were very open and candid in talking about Chinese politics and history.Theroux is a great writer and makes the whole thing very interesting.He has a way with words,frequent humour and his style flows easily.I know many people dislike his attitude towards other nationalities,finding him superior and condescending and that this spoils the whole experience for them.
Because the book takes place so many years ago it would be interesting to get a follow-up from him, but as for reading it now it is still a grand adventure through China to places most people are not exposed.
I enjoyed his description of the South and the coastal area near Vietnam and was very interested in his experience in the Tibetan sector.
Theroux devours places and mixes in the odd sorts that he encounters on his journeys, but his books always top on getting the descriptive view to the reader and the 'feel' as a non-native of a place without too much interpretation.
I was so excited to pick up this book because it is about a man's journey across Europe into China via rail.
The author's travels took place in the 1980's and I was interested in learning more about China and seeing it through a visitor's eye, hopefully with some insight.
I got halfway through the book, and just couldn't take it anymore.
I tried to stick it out just to learn more about China, but absolutely could not take one more word out of this author's book.
Do not read this book--your interest in travel and culture will be squashed by his pessimism and opacity.
This isn't a travel book or just a book about China. It's a book about the pain in the ass that travel can be and the annoying, obnoxious, petty and unpleasant people you meet along the way. These are all the things that make the book (and most of his others) interesting. He doesn't leave out the boring parts in between. He's a little bit of a curmudgeon and can sometimes be downright mean. Every road isn't rocky however, and he gives you a real sense of place; you can almost smell it.
Theroux is a great American travel writer. This is one of my favorites of the many I have read. The Iron Rooster is a Chinese train that carries him deep into the back waters of China in the mid 80s. His descriptions are both acrid and humane. Go figure.
This is the book that inspired me to take the Trans-Siberian train, basically traveling from Berlin to Hong Kong by train, in 1990.The core of the book discribes Paul's adventures spending nearly a year on the rails of China. I really enjoy his perceptions of people and local customs.
China by train is educational but uninspiring. I got the meaning of a hundred of Chinese Ha-Ha! but still wouldn't jump aboard that train. Except for Tibet. The last chapter outweighed the rest of the book.
One of the best travel writers out there. Theroux makes you want to overturn your desk, light your cube on fire and turn in your company ID...so you can get into the world and LIVE!
He reminded me of the communes we visited, the schools, Freedom Stores (set up for tourists as a way to import foreign currencies used in trade with the rest of the world), factories, small workshops where hand made items available for purchase as souvenirs, and many more of the things one saw at that time traveling through China.
Half way through the book I began jotting down the names of the various cities he describes and looked for myself what the cities look like today on Google Earth.
Modern pictures show the traffic, the buildings going up, city's growth!The book is long and at times tedious, but if you enjoy travel and like history it will help you understand what's happening in China today.
If Rick Steves is your type of guide than this is not your book.
Paul Theroux is the UN-romantic travel guide.
Well he isn't really a guide.
He is a man on a long vacation through Mongolia, China and Tibet.
He is wonderful at telling stories within his book without making the book seem a collections of short stories.
He does not hesistate to point out that sub standard education, or housing or even governement are not quaint idiosyncrasies of a developing nation.
Paul Theroux will plainly tell you his that these things are awful, not National Geographic covers.
This book fits right in between Theroux's first travel book and his last. It's sarcastic and caustic, but not to the extent of The Great Railway Bazaar (fortunately). It's also informative and provides fascinating insight into China, but not to the extent of Dark Star Safari regarding Africa (unfortunately). Ultimately, though, it's a unique, geographically comprehensive account of China that is highly entertaining, very descriptive, and generally fascinating. The highlights are the descriptions of the train between Chengdu and Kunming and the chapter on Tibet.
Made me want to take a long trip on a train. Theroux makes a lot of comments about China that may have been true at the time, but which don't seem to be that true now -- what a difference 20 years makes. This book was written right before the events of 1989 (published in 1988), so the political stuff is really fascinating -- to see people's thoughts and attitudes about government just prior to that horriffic time.
I had thought somehow I'd missed reading this one of Theroux's, but the final chapter of visiting Tibet (by car, there was no train a generation ago as there is now) was familiar enough that I realized I had. Still, though a bit dated, it proved interesting in his observations about the Chinese; he was a bit less ... snide than I recall him from other books.
I loved the way that China became geographically real to me while reading this book, and the fact that Paul Theroux refused to toe the party line during this trip in the early 80's. Anyone interested in what's happening to Tibetans can get a good sense of the problem in this book.
Theroux in China. As always, sprinkled with his reflections, more than travel.
Básicamente, treinta años después, uno puede tener una idea muy clara de lo que es China,
Mij heeft die culturele revolutie, wat daar dan ook in het westen van bekend werd indertijd met stomheid geslagen.
En ook al vind ik Theroux een weinig interessante blik hebben waarmee hij alles om zich heen aanschouwt, hij denkt niet echt, hij voelt niet echt, hij beschrijft en verzamelt de nodige informatie in zijn dagboek, hij ondergaat m.n. is mijn indruk en ik reis met hem mee.
Wat wist hij van China, voordat hij aan zijn reis begon?
Ook al beschrijft het een reis in de tachtiger jaren, kort na die afschuwelijke culturele revolutie, het boek maakt mij nieuwsgieriger naar het fenomeen China.
it could've been a brilliant book, but unfortunately I've found it extremely patronising...
If I didn't, it was only because I didn't yet know the Chinese word for it."Then there was his incredulous analysis of the Chinese sending their skilled laborers to put up buildings in the Middle East, when those in China were so poorly constructed: "It was rather as though Poland were exporting chefs, and Australia sending elocution teachers to England, and Americans running classes in humility or the Japanese in relaxation techniques."Theroux finds a lot to dislike, but there were many things he did like such as old coastal China's seagoing communities.
What the evangelizer in his native seriousness does not understand is that there are some people on earth who do not wish to be saved."I almost think Theroux stacked the deck by joining a group tour at the beginning of the book.
I read this book a few years ago. My brother reads only non-fiction and loaned it to me. I love to read about trains and train travel. I found if fascinating and informative. Great descriptions.
