https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11507.My_Name_Is_Asher_Lev
At first I thought it was about an art prodigy; that a difficult path is taken when your child is special or gifted.It kind of is.Then I thought it was about the pain and awkwardness of being a religious Jew right after the second world war.Again, kind of.Then I thought it was like The Namesake and the struggle between parents and children and different generations.Getting closer.Ultimately, I think this book is about perception.
Short, perfunctory sentences that made me feel as frustrated with the situation as I felt Asher Lev did with his father who did not get art.
I could sympathize with all the characters in the book: his father for trying to hold onto his religious convictions without dominance but love, his mother for trying to love and encourage her son while staying at one with her husband, the mentor for his love and devotion to art, and especially Asher for trying to balance it all.
When style can add another layer by making you feel Asher's love of painting, it makes the book beautiful.The reason this is one of my favorite books is that I connected with this book on a deeply personal level.
It is the reason I empathized with Asher and come back to his story time and again in my own quest to balance it all.
devo dire che è un libro scritto molto bene; non so se l'autore, Chaim Potok, abbia seguito il consiglio di Cechov di scrivere soltanto quando si è freddi come il ghiaccio, perché qui e là trapelano punte di nostalgia scottante, bollori e schegge arroventate di rivalsa personale.
Asher Lev si scontra con una tradizione, quella del suo popolo, per rimanere fedele a un'altra tradizione occidentale, quella della pittura e dei suoi soggetti.
Ma il monoteismo ebraico stacca come la vetta del Sinai, e solo una capacità estrema di astrazione potrebbe figurare quel dio ammonitore vicino a noi.
I hated to finish this book, because I loved it so much.It is the story of a Hasidic boy who loves to draw and paint and has the ability to become a great artist, but his father hates his obsession with art because he thinks it is from the Other Side and is evil.I loved how this story drew me into the daily life of this young boy, his family and his struggle to become who he was meant to be.
I've heard good things about Potok's "Chosen" and it sounds like that's his book that most people have read. I enjoyed his style here and I suspect I'll pick up The Chosen to read later. Content/Theme Before commenting on anything else, I need to comment on the theme and content of the book. This book is deeply entrenched in the Jewish culture and has many references that are likely very commonplace to those in the Jewish culture, but were very foreign to me. I got the general meaning of most th
I've heard good things about Potok's "Chosen" and it sounds like that's his book that most people have read.
I got the general meaning of most things from context, but I still have a long list of terms, phrases and actions to look up and better understand.This book also has a lot of great detail about the art world.
That scene was a very profound description of the huge disparity between their two worlds.The other characters in the book were largely there as tools either for Asher's own development or for exploring the gap between Asher's two worlds, art and Judaism.
(…) La tensione fra l’individuo solo che aspira alla propria realizzazione e la comunità è proprio l’argomento delle storie moderne, diversamente da quanto avveniva in passato.
La vita non è semplice così le storie non sono semplici, la vita è tragica così le storie sono tragiche, la vita è piena di domande difficili così le storie sono colme di domande difficili”.Il rapporto che intercorre tra l’esigenza di affermazione di se stessi e il bisogno – tutto umano – di essere accettati dalla propria famiglia e dalla comunità di cui si è parte, è un rapporto altamente drammatico.Asher Lev (ebreo, della comunità chassidica di Brooklyn) ha un dono e una vocazione, la pittura.
Coltivarlo, perseguirlo, però, significa mettere a repentaglio tutto ciò che ha: famiglia, tradizioni, comunità di appartenenza, credo, amici… che fare?
Different art professors who meant a lot to me and friends through the years all have urged and recommended me to read this.
All the recommendations were given at different times and curiously still,from people unrelated to each other - which held the title of the book in my memory for a long time as something of significance, especially in the way that they told me it especially for me.
The years have passed and a copy of the book never seemed to come my way.
I temi principali sono il rapporto genitori/figli, il crescere in una famiglia religiosa e opprimente, la ricerca della propria identità che non riesce ad emergere perché soffocata dall'ambiente circostante; si parla della lotta interiore nata dal voler perseguire una passione e i sensi di colpa dovuti al ferire le persone che si amano; si parla di arte, di quanto possa essere incontrollabile una passione con la conseguente estromissione dalla comunità in cui si è cresciuti.Asher Lev è un ragazzino nato negli Stati Uniti da una famiglia ebrea ortodossa, frequenta una scuola yeshivah e ha un padre famoso e rispettato da tutti.
Though not Jewish myself, I have read a great many novels with Jewish settings, but cannot think of any that immerse me so deeply in the culture as Potok's novels: this one and The Chosen.Asher is the only child of Aryeh and Rivkeh Lev, descendants of two of the most prominent families of Ladover Hasidim; the branch of the sect is fictitious, but clearly based on the Chabad-Lubavitcher movement in Crown Heights, Brooklyn.
Vus de l'extérieure le but des Hasidim semble être de résister la modernité à tout prix.Je recommande fortement "My name is Asher Lev" à tous ceux qui veulent comprendre la culture américaine du vingtième siècle.
Par le fait d'exister, les Hasidim dérangeaient beaucoup la majorité des juifs américains hautement assimilés cars ils semaient la doute chez eux.
Lors de sa parution en 1972 on pensait que "My name is Asher Lev" s'adressaient à l'Amérique en entier.Potok commence par analyser les inconvénients d'être hassidique.
Asher Lev est fortement gêné par les regards qu'il attire lors de ses visites au Metropolitan Museum.
Asher's father worked for a Rebbe (think of them as sort of mini-Popes for particular Hasidic Sects; next to God in their righteousness), traveling the country and later Europe establishing Yeshivas (Jewish educational institutions) to preserve and grow the studying of the Torah by Jews.
He wants to be a good Jew and honor his parents, make them proud of him, but he is driven to create art which his father thinks is foolish.This book is about tension.
As parents, we push our children to do well in school, some of us want our kids to excel in sports, others want their kids to be leaders and to have a lot of friends and to be popular.
Here we have a prodigy son who at a young age is a Mozart of art, and yet because of his parent's religious background and beliefs, he is made to believe his gift is bad and useless and that he should conform to their narrow and religious beliefs and forget about the gift.
It is painful that the parents are never able to understand the world of art and their son's gift.
Now you still have the joy of looking forward to reading the book.""We've had this conversation before, Dad.""Then why haven't you read it yet?""Because as soon as I read it, you won't say I'm so lucky anymore."I think the risk was worth it to be "less lucky" and I finally read the Asher Lev book.
I've already read "The Chosen" (twice), and "The Book of Lights".Asher Lev is a practicing Hasidic Jew from brooklyn family that is very prominent and well known among his people, not only in Brooklyn, but in Europe, Russia, and many other places.
The way that Potok writes, though, he does so in a way that any Jewish reader can find a sense of connection, while a non-Jewish reader does not only have the ability to connect in an emotional way, but it is written in a way that is accessible and in a way that they develop a greater understanding for Hasidism, their rituals, and how they go about serving their G-d.Asher Lev is a Hasid that was born in 1943 and grows up living with his parents, Aryeh (father) and Rivkeh (mother).
The book is about a boy named Asher Lev, who is a Hasidic Jew living in NYC.
Hasidic Jews are one of the strictest kind of Jews and Asher's parents (mostly his father) is super orthodox.
He works for a man named the Rebbe, who is kind of the leader of the worldwide community of Hasidics.
The book starts when Asher is like five or six years old and focusses on his biggest passion: drawing.
Ashers drawing causes conflict between him and his parents and the community.
The main point of the book is whether Asher choses between his upbringing (the Hasidic faith) or his passion: drawing and painting.
Books like this are wasted on the young.
You will see religiously devout parents through the eyes of a child; you will see the Hasidic Jewish world through the eyes of an artist, you will see Christianity through the eyes of Jew. And in the end you may see a little less black and white in your own world.
What I enjoyed most was riding shotgun with a boy who begins as a prodigy and ends as an artist.
You see his mom and dad, the conflicting worlds of art and his religion, and masterpieces like the David and the Pieta through his eyes and you hear his thoughts as he processes all this information to create great art himself.
Enjoy the ride.
You're a Hasidic Jew. Is that your identity? You're an artist, a "prodigy." Is that your identity? You're being pulled by opposing forces, urges, needs: You're Chaim Potok's Asher Lev; you're also Rivkeh Lev, Asher's mother. Or perhaps you're a nameless illustration of the human condition. If, however, your name is Asher Lev, then, unlike ordinary dual creatures, you come to realize that "paint" begins with pain and ends with the letter that looks like a cross. And the pain that is yours is not only yours.
La trama è in apparenza semplice: un bambino ebreo ortodosso di Brooklyn che - in una realtà tradizionalmente ostile alla rappresentazione figurativa - ha ricevuto in dono un immenso talento per la pittura e per quel dono è pronto anche a perdere l'appoggio della sua famiglia.
Ma nel libro c'è molto di più: è un libro che parla di genialità, dolore e solitudine.
Parla del conflitto tra generazioni, del tentativo di conciliare mondi in apparenza inconciliabili, della ricerca della propria strada e di tutta la sofferenza che questo può portare.
Allora sii un grande artista, Asher Lev; quella sarà l'unica giustificazione per tutto il dolore che causerai.
Questo sarebbe una cosa pregevole, se non fosse che è ebreo.Il padre è un importante rappresentante della comunità dei Chassidim Ladover di Brooklyn ed è molto religioso e rigoroso applicante degli usi, dei costumi e delle tradizioni.
Un uomo che, attento solamente a soddisfare gli obblighi che Dio sembra avergli richiesto, non è in grado di capire chi lui stesso ha generato.Asher, che racconta la sua storia in prima persona, passa quindi la sua infanzia combattuto tra il suo bisogno di esprimersi con l’arte e le limitazioni imposte dal suo credo religioso che condanna l'arte figurativa in quanto contraria a Dio. Fino a quando incontra un mentore che gli fa capire che l’arte non può che essere libera, altrimenti è solo propaganda.
A new favorite.
The first time I read this book--for my 11th grade English class--I read it in one afternoon, and I can honestly say that it changed my life.
Asher Lev doesn't do a lot of things aside from paint and worship for years, but the real story is his internal struggle and his battle with his feelings--it's pretty impressive to write 300 pages of feelings and internal dialogue and turn it into a page-turner.
My Name is Asher Lev changed my life because it helped me understand how important it is to discover yourself.
Wow. This book was so good I am speechless. Asher, his Hasidic Jewish family and life, his art, his youth, his sadness. The characters, the pacing. I thought it was a perfect book.I know I read this in Jr. High or High School, and I know it meant nothing to me then. It's amazing how one can read and comprehend the words, and regurgitate ideas to pass a test - but not understand any of it. Re-reading it as an adult who has lived life, raised children, studied art - it's amazing to feel it instead of just read it.
I'd heard many people say how much they loved this book, so when I found it waiting for me on a step stool, I figured I'd take it with me.I guess it was a coincidence that "Any Bitter Thing" had so many Catholic themes while "My Name is Asher Lev" portrays the life of a Hasidic Jew who loves to paint.
Asher had the chance to avoid causing this anguish, and you wonder if remaining uncompromising to what you think is necessary really justifies your actions.What I loved about the book was the explanation of artists' motives and personality, some of the history of art, the spirituality of Hasidic Jews, the devotion to the Torah of the Lev family, the author's imagery and use of emotion.The climax of the book is a tense, tense read, my friends.
His powerful gifts as an artist become apparent when he is a small boy, and he soon learns that his artistic vision is at odds with a worldview which fears and despises art and puts duty to the family and community as the highest calling.This novel is sufficiently deep that I could spend a long time discussing its themes (sacrifice and atonement being two of the major topics) and its characters (none of whom I liked 100 percent).
By the time you've seen Asher grow from an isolated boy to a successful artist, you're pretty sure that Something Terrible is bearing down upon him.
My Name is Asher Lev is about, at its heart, "the unspeakable mystery that brings good fathers and sons into the world and lets a mother watch them tear at each other's throats." It depicts that unspeakable mystery in all its painful humanity, and as a consequence the book is moving and disturbing.
Asher Lev is a Hasidic Jew who has a gift for painting, a "foolishness" his father cannot understand.
Potok could have turned Asher's father into a villain; instead he makes him human and sympathetic.
Overall, however, it was an excellent book, and I intend to read The Gift of Asher Lev in the future.
I understand that Potok, as an observant Jew, was simply writing from his own moral perspective, still---seeing as the entire book is based upon the concept of an individual trying to free themselves from social and moral binds that are to a too-large extent, arbitrarily dividing, it seemed more than a little ironic that consensual sex/money exchange was made the ABSOLUTE symbol of losing yourself.
It shows you that more often than not, being true to yourself means not even being sure if you HAVE retained your soul, because at some point, the point of your struggle becomes lost.
"A gift," is what Jacob Kahn told Asher Florence, Italy was.
I really can't say exactly why I liked this book so much but I was completely absorbed in it.
First off, I found it interesting to see how a child handles his artistic "gift" when his family and others around him tell him it's foolishness.
I found the end when Asher had to choose between being true to himself/his art and his religion and what his family would approve of heartbreaking.
I think he did what he did to be true to his art and to himself with what tools he had.
However after starting on my Potok journey, I realized that the first works I read of Potok's were The History the Jews.
I read this book before going to Isreal.My all time favorite Potok book is My Name is Asher Lev, this book began my journey into exploring the modern philosophy of art and its place in religion as well as my life.
After reading this book I found myself going through college trying to absorb all that i could of what my philosophy in life was and how it relates to my work and 'calling' to be a landscape architect.
Appeal: I cannot find the words  to explain the appeal of this book. I find it terribly ironic that I finished it today, on Easter, the holiest day of the year for me as a fervent Christian. Comments: This book is buzzing around in my head; it feels too fresh for me to write any clear thoughts about why it was so powerful. All I can say is to read this book for yourself. But be careful if you do; it is not a book to be read lightly.
I thought this was brilliant. If I read anything else in 2017 that is as good as this, I'll be a lucky woman.
