https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/140974.The_Path_of_Daggers
These books hold a special place. It's just that simple.
I debated long and hard about how to rate THE PATH OF DAGGERS, book 8 in Robert Jordan's WHEEL OF TIME .
They mean ignoring the obvious b/c they know better, even when what they "know" has been definitively proven wrong over and over again.Things Aes Sedai know:1.
TWO revelations: (view spoiler)[gholam are most likely part Aelfinn/Eelfinn (b/c human blood has the sweetest "savor," and Mistress Anan is almost certainly a former Aes Sedai who was burned out, specifically, Martine Janata, the last Aes Sedai to make a study of ter'angreal.
But no Mat and too much stupid Aes Sedai nonsense, so not my favorite, either.
Quite the opposite is true for the chapters written from the viewpoint of minor characters, like the Forsaken, the Seanchan and the Black Ajah.
But unfortunately, there are so depressingly few of them.Then we have people being stupid, other people being incomprehensibly stupid, the development of what has the potential to be the worst love plot in fantasy, and Faile being Faile (that’s the worst part).And the only real redeeming quality of the book is called Cadsuane Melaidhrin.The only reason this doesn't get two stars is because it's a Wheel of Time book and it allows me to spend more time in this wonderful world.
Slow like it's predecessor but few major events happened in this book which in turn make the story in next book look very exciting.
Most of the Aes Sedea plot line drives me crazy and so since we spend so much time with it this time I just spent most of the book frustrated.I'm not going to spend a ton of time on this review because this was my least favorite installment.For Rand there are some good developments or reveals.
I'm glad because that meant I figured her out too and now some of the confusing bits of the last books make more sense.Finally!!!
I feel like I have been waiting forever for them to enter the story.And last but not least (it was actually one of my favorite things of the story) there is the reunion of Lan and Nynaeve.
ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature.The best thing I can say about The Path of Daggers is that it is significantly shorter than the last few novels have been -- only 700 pages (mass market paperback) compared to the 900-1100 page novels that have preceded it.
The story is still interesting, but The Path of Daggers doesn't advance it far enough.But what's annoying me most is that the female WOT characters are the cattiest bunch of women I've ever encountered.
I'm sure that Mr. Jordan meant for his female characters to seem strong, but they just come across as bitchy.
Read more Robert Jordan book reviews at Fantasy literature.
It is the characters, Jordan's storytelling, and the sheer size of the world that make this such a great fantasy series.So what actually happened in this 8th WoT book?
I thought this was a good book for her character.
The Love Interests - Min, Aviendha, and Faile had little to do in this book and at this point in the story their whole reason for being is simply to be love interests for their guys.
All in all I thought this was a good addition to the series and I seemed like the story flew by while I was reading it which is always a very positive sign.
*** 4.44 ***A buddy read with the WoT fanatics at BB&B!
The action was a bit choppy, which is not very typical for Jordan, but the banter made the book - all the characters with their quirks and the intricate games of hierarchy and politics, are deliciously masterful, but still, this book suffered form the lack of one of the main characters - Mat was MIA....
Now I expect with the next book we will start getting there:):):) And we want Mat back!!!I wish all of you happy reading and Happy Olympic Games to you all!!!
(Not having any Mat, especially after the cliffhanger at the end of book 7, doesn't help either.) Is it ridiculous for a fantasy series to still be setting things up 8 books in?
The stage is set for book 9, where things mercifully do begin to resolve, but the sheer number of cliffhangers in this book is staggering.
Egwene finally begins openly asserting her power, while Elayne sets into motion significant events on both sides of the world.
I didn't like book 8 any more than most people the first time I read it, but I have since come to actually like the much-maligned Aes Sedai, and the reason starts here.
What happens when fantasy, a genre often prone to portraying the righteous struggles of angelic heroes against twisted villains, tries to create a real jerk who is also supposed to be not only a hero but a savior?*Well, that should be pretty interesting.Believe it or not, I've heard people complain that they abandoned "The Wheel of Time" because Rand al'Thor became a jerk.
What if Rand ends up a tiger, burning bright, rather than a little lamb?So while Path of Daggers suffers from all of what we might call Robert Jordan's "obsessive writing disorders," I find it a notable entry in "The Wheel of Time."*We could argue that Frodo gets a little impatient with Sam now and then.
Perrin's absence in book 5 is hardly noticeable; Mat's absence here is, especially considering the slow-moving overall plot.It would be unfair to say that nothing at all happens here.
I counted four fairly major events in the book which to be fair is not that much for 500+ pages especially considering that readers expected two of them to happen for a really long time.In the beginning of the book Elaine was struggling to keep a leadership role with her motley crew: Sea Folks, Aes Sedai, the Kin, and lovesick Nynaeve.
"The Wheel of Time turns, and Ages come and pass, leaving memories that become legend.
Legend fades to myth and even myth is long forgotten when the Age that gave it birth returns again.What was, what will be, and what is, may yet fall under the Shadow."I truly love this series a lot and I am so glad that I read this book.
Alhamdulillah.This book is slowly but it flows beautiful and I love the way Jordan developed the main characters and story through the series.
The epic Buddies Books & Baubles reread of the Wheel of Time is still in full swing as number 8 is moved to the DONE pile. As with the last book, this one was a slower paced read, but there was lots to enjoy. Except for the lack of Mat. Why Robert Jordan, why?!?!?The stuff that went down: (view spoiler)[- The bowl of winds is used at last and the weather is wrested from the dark one’s control. Winter is coming…- The Seanchan attack! - The Seanchan are attacked by Rand and his army!- Rand use
Except for the lack of Mat. Why Robert Jordan, why?!?!?The stuff that went down: (view spoiler)[-	The bowl of winds is used at last and the weather is wrested from the dark one’s control.
-	The Seanchan are attacked by Rand and his army!-	Rand uses Callandor to attack all the Seanchan at once, and instead loses control and almost kills his army and himself along with the Seanchan.
-	The White Tower Aes Sedai are captured by the Black Tower Ashaman.-	Rand survives an assassination attempt by a group of Ashaman.-	Fail is taken prisoner by Sevanna and her Aiel.
(hide spoiler)]On to Winter's Heart where one of the BIGGEST events of this series happens!
Though I guess that going from extreme heat and drought to torrent rains and snows probably created some pretty awful problems and the consequences will reverberate throughout the world for quite awhile.
But instead of being thankful to Rand who busted his a@@ trying to keep Andor as safe as possible, she threw a tantrum and (view spoiler)[ ripped his banners from the Palace in Caemlyn (hide spoiler)].
It's sad to see women, who should know better act like complete idiots.The Asha'man are becoming a bigger problem and if Rand doesn't establish his dominance over them soon he's going to face an army he won't be able to defeat.
So many times characters just sit around musing on things that have happened or aren't happening or are going to happen, while nothing actually happens for hundreds of pages on end because Jordan wanted to make sure we really got that the Aes Sedai argue a lot.
Narishma is one of his Ash'aman, and he has just come back from a perilous errand to retrieve the sword Callandor, an errand that Rand sent him on.
Springing from the cot, Rand snatched the bundle before Narishma could proffer it.
Executive Summary: This is definitely one of the weaker books in the series so far, and there are a large number of pages where it feels like very little happens. I'm still enjoying my reread, but I know that things will only get slower before they finally pick back up again.Audiobook: Doing this book in audio is pretty much a must for me now. I don't think I'd have managed to read it very quickly otherwise. Micheal Kramer and Kate Reading are fantastic as always. Full Review This book should ma
Executive Summary: This is definitely one of the weaker books in the series so far, and there are a large number of pages where it feels like very little happens.
I think my affection for many of them at different parts of the series helps carry me through, but I feel like a lot of this could have been edited down.I'm still enjoying my reread, but I'm dreading the next two books a little bit.
Of course the end of this book left me eager to pick up the next one soon, but that's often the case with this series, even in the weakest books.
I really enjoyed this book and what a great series this is turning out to be. There was a lot more action in this one (which is number 8) and a lot of character development. I am listening to the series on audio book and was quite surprised when it suddenly finished right in the middle of so many major events. Now I have to start straight into the next book. How lucky they are all published and I do not have to wait weeks or even years for the next instalment!
If I didn’t have the next book queued up and ready to go, I might have complained that I wanted to spend more time with some of the different storylines.
These are just random comments about some of the things I enjoyed or that stuck out to me.(view spoiler)[The Bowl of the Winds finally got used and now everybody can stop sweating and start shivering!
I look forward to finding out what happens now that they’re headed through the gate to the White Tower.I was also really engrossed in the itsy bitsy storyline that started in the previous book with Seaine and Pevara trying to root out the black ajah in the white tower.
Most of the book are again devoted to describing in excruciating detail of how the main characters tend to act and think, with very little variation, mostly accomplishing nothing except introduce filler and making characters feel one-dimensional.
Of course, there's now also a bit of slavery coming in so expect to see a lot of boxing and switching in addition to the breasts of book 7.
The focus on the main characters appears to be more on Egwene this time, but there's a bit of the others.
His style is still there and when the main plot moves an inch, you can tell that his superb writing skills are still there.
There wasn't very much of Met in this book (I guess everyone need a break at some point of this looong story;)), so I will reminiscence on some details about Mat, that is the best bloody character I've ever read!!!Blood and bloody ashes!
-Mat Cauthon, all the time"I read a book once." -Mat Cauthon“It was a simple truth; the Creator made women so men would not find life too easy.” - Matrim Cauthon"Yes, I'm alive.
I've only failed one time that I can remember, and it hardly counts..." -MatEverything by Mat - who is the best bloody character I've ever read - Burn me if he isn't!!!
A Verbose book as usual, with lot of descriptions and some significant incidents.. I would have liked this better if it had not been mostly about the girls -_-. Missed Mat in this book.. And end chapters were better than the rest of the book..
I’m starting to wonder if I’ve made a mistake in deciding that I wanted to complete THE WHEEL OF TIME by reading all the books in the series consecutively.
By the time the next book had been published, I found it impossible to distinguish the lesser characters or keep the infinite subplots tidy in my mind.After THE CROSSROADS OF TWILIGHT, I decided that once the series ended – if it ended – I would go back and read the whole thing from start to finish.
From books 8 to 10 the material could easily have been condensed into one solid 800 page novel rather than three separate 600 to 800 page novels.What Robert Jordan did at this point in my eyes is to stretch his material, apparently losing track of his grand and sprawling world, to the point where he lost complete control of his pacing.
His prose is passable certainly, yet as a writer lacking the power of greater literary stylists, for him to write a novel not utilising drawcard characters, is in my eyes a mistake.
The Wheel of Time series represents, for me, the perfect example of a guilty pleasure in the world of fantasy.This series is not actually written very well.
Robert Jordan was not a very good wordsmith, and he really only knew how to say and describe things one way.
Many people also love and adore these books, and will forever place The Wheel of Time series upon their list of all-time favorite books.
Either way, you'll have exposed yourself to one of the most famous fantasy series of all time.
This interest becomes even more intense since even the rest of the protagonists in our history, on the two opposing sides of light and darkness, do not remain idle and make tireless efforts to play their own role in the developments that may follow slow rhythms but they are especially crucial for the continuation, especially towards the end of the book, where things become dangerous as we move towards the heart of winter.8ο μέρος αυτής της μεγαλειώδους σειράς, με τα πράγματα να εξελίσσονται στους ίδιους ρυθμούς με το προηγούμενο, με τους περισσότερους πρωταγωνιστές να έχουν έντονη δραστηριότητα.
This obsession and excessive WoT reading is unhealthy, I think. Well, in my defense, this book was very small.No Mat POV sucked, especially given his situation at the end of the last book. Rest was pretty much fine, I guess.
I struggled knowing what to rate this book as at first because I didn't live it as much as the previous 2 all the way through and it did seem a little slower in places, however I did think that it was filled with some interesting things and events.
One thing I enjoyed in this book was the return of Elyas who was a really interesting character from an earlier book and one that makes Perrin's story a lot better.
I'm not sure I know what her true motives are yet and so she's certainly one to watch...Min continues to be a good character in this book and stays by Rand's side again.
I am still reading and enjoying the WoT series. I don't want to sound emotional, but I love this series and had (and still have) a great time participating in the WoT discussions.This book was short but packed with exciting events in the end. I'm looking forward to know what's going to happen next.
Seriously, the first third consists of Elayne and Nynaeve, Aviendha, Birgitte, the rebel Aes Sedai with them, the Sea Folk, and the Kin, all trying to out-do each other on the way to the Farm.
Even my favorite strand of the story, Egwene's, is so full of maneuvering that it is difficult to tell her group of Aes Sedai from those in the rest of the book (although I think Egwene is brilliant and by far the best woman in the whole lot).
This was the first WoT audiobook I read and the narrators made all six hours of Nyneave and Co. tolerable.
I found it harder and harder to pick the book up until finally I dropped it.
A friend suggested I drop it for a week and see I would want to come back to it after.
I started forcing myself to pick it up just so I could finish.
I would pick it up 10 mins at a time, get tired of Nyneave and Elayne and Egwene and all the Aes Sedai, then drop it.
The reason I can't tolerate the book anymore is mainly because of the characters.
