https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29983.The_Works_of_H_G_Wells
at one time i really liked war of the worlds and then i found out that hg wells was a social darwinist and i figured out that the aliens in war of the worlds were probably representative of black people and then i didnt feel comfortable enjoying that story anymore
Dejaré "La Guerra de los Mundos" para otra ocasión, antes que tire este libro por la ventana del bus y llame morlocks a todo ser humano que se me cruce en el camino. Por ahora "El Hombre invisible" es mi favorito <3
This book was written in 1893, I just wonder what Wells would think about today's society.The Island of Dr. Moreau was so much better than the movie.
I had to watch the movie again after I read this story.
The martians could fly and ultimately humans were able to figure out how.
I wish I would have taken a break from Wells before starting this story.
His English was difficult to read at times, I felt like I was burned out by the time I got to this story but it was the one I was anticipating the most.

I read the War of the Worlds book one of H.G. Wells' works.
The War of the Worlds is about aliens on Mars invading Earth because their planet has become too uninhabitable for them.
Wells used foreshadowing about how the martians had no disease on their planet so they could be affected.
Wells had an amazing imagination for his time because in his book the martians would massacre large amounts of humans so quikly in hulking spheres with three legs.
I think people who like sci-fi or H.G. Wells' works would probably like this book.
I own this volume with the four novels The War of the Worlds,The Time Machine, The Island of Dr. Moreau, and The Invisible Man. But for rating purposes, I will review them each separately. I just wanted to put this on for record that I own them in a volume together.
H.G. Wells is awesome. I've finished the Time Machine and the Island of Dr. Moreau and both were very enjoyable. By taking the viewpoint of an outsider to the weirdness it adds a familiar element. The only thing I have trouble with is all the fancy English words he uses that makes me dig up my dictionary on a regular basis. His style is very solid however.
These four books are the definition of seminal science fiction, written by HG Wells. More like a proof of concept than full blown story, each book introduces an ethical question along with its fantastical premise.
Libro excelente que vale por 44 grandes obras literarias en un solo volumen. De lo mejor de la ciencia ficción y que nos demuestran la grandeza literaria de H.G. Recomendado a todos. Vale de la primera a la última página.
Halfway through this one.
HG Wells blows my mind everytime. The hilarious but ultimately pointy "Wonderful Visit" stands out in particular. All amazing stuff from a clever mind.
Of the four stories in this collection I've only read War of the Worlds. That story alone gives the collection at least a four star rating. I can only hope the other stories are just as good.
I have a first edition of this book. A prized possession!
All must reads, especially the Island of Dr. Moreau and the War of the Worlds. You all know the stories, but don't you want to know the thoughts?
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/12108815
The best!
I've read these before, but I thought it about time I read them again.
Read the first 3 then lost interest. The Time Machine was not good. I enjoyed the movie better.
What an imagination!! If something subsequently happened, you can be certain he predicted it!
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/2540183
This edition is 1979 leather bound. 688 pgs
