https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7058405-the-ice-princess
This is a murder mystery novel, so there are clues the protagonists investigate to resolve it.
The only problem is Läckberg tells the reader the clues after everything is resolved.
For example, check the dates when Patrik Hedstrom interrogates Dagmar Petren (the old lady who made cakes).
I don't really need to know how Erika and Patrik made love for five times because they are on the "bingo phase" of their relationship.
Indeed, I would love if I had never read "bingo phase".
Half of the book is spent in these silly things I don't want to read about.
Murray published in 2010.Lackberg’s prose is spirited and fresh and her contribution to the Nordic Noir genre of crime fiction is well stated.
Most notable is her exploration of themes of family, loyalty and the nature of propriety in a small town.The one failing here, and it is relatively minor, though, is that as good as her characterization is for the most part, some of the antagonists are strawman caricatures with one dimensional fronts and the inconsistency can be distracting.All in all a good murder mystery that is wrapped up tidily with a satisfying end.
We have one family that runs a town and the 100% evil, snooty aristocratic mother with TWO sociopathic sons (one natural, one adopted).
The author conveniently finds a will crumpled up in the evil family's trash can (what, shredders haven't made it to Sweden yet?).
All the participants in an earlier murder conveniently keep little bookmarks inscribed with the initials of their childhood "gang" name in plain sight for the author and detective to find.At some point, I decided to keep reading only to see what fresh stereotype or abomination waited on the next page.On top of all the bad characterizations and dopey plotting, bad writing abounds.
Otro recurso que usa mucho la autora es comenzar un capítulo sin aclarar de quién se habla hasta pasadas las primeras líneas o que no se traspase inmediatamente al lector algún descubrimiento que hacen los personajes; esta fórmula que en otros libros me ha molestado mucho, aquí se presenta ágil y forma parte del rompecabezas que hay que completar.Sí reconozco que la novela tiene algún que otro fallo, pero son detalles que no afectan a la trama y que quedan más opacados aún frente a una excelente descripción del lugar y la pequeña comunidad que lo habita.Por último, advierto que no es un thriller repleto de acción, por el contrario, es un libro bastante pausado, que apuesta a que el lector vaya atando cabos junto con los protagonistas para descubrir al asesino.
Not the best book of the Hedstrom series but it was ok! fast paced as always but I was a bit disappointed by the ending... Not quite what I expected. I think in her effort to avoid a predictable ending, Lackberg chooses an outsider as the killer, which is the reason why I gave this book 3 stars. Lackbergs has an impeccable writing style, so if you are a lover of the genre you should move on with The Preacher and The stonecutter both of which were just shy of 5 stars.
This book had neither secret passages nor evil twins, but it DID break the rule of When the Detective Finds a Clue He shares It With the Rest of the Class.Now look, I’m all for breaking rules.
A slow pace doesn’t have to be bad as long as the story, characters, events are compelling.
(This is different from most of the Swedish crime fic and it’s desolation and despair.) So I was rooting for the love story, but it, like the character studies (from Grievance #1) seemed too easy and therefore came across as lazy.
I think there must be something about the Scandinavian winter that just makes murder mysteries darker and more atmospheric and this one, fist in Camilla Läckberg's Fjällbacka series is no exception.Erica Falck, a writer has returned to Fjällbacka after the death of her parents to pack up their belongs and decide what to do with their house.
The police investigation into whether Alex's death was suicide or murder uncovers secrets kept for decades and some terrible truths about the past.The novel was a little slow and not as lean as it could have been.
I felt that Superintendent Mellberg was not convincing as a real character and hope he does last too long in the series.
After finishing Stieg Larsson's fabulous trilogy, it is only natural for me to hunt for more Swedish authors writing criminal-genre novels and Camilla Läckberg happened to be the next one on the list - at least in my town library's list.It is quite funny how Swedish writers tend to write their books in a batch of three - as a trilogy and Isprinsessen - which literally means "The Ice Princess" in English is the first of the three.
The victim is her own childhood friend Alexandra - whom she lost contacted years ago when Alexandra's family moved to Göteborg, a rather large city in Sweden.Erica, who usually lived her hip life in Stockholm, came to Fjällbacka to take care of her parents' house and properties as they recently deceased in a car accident not awhile ago.
Sometimes really irrelevant descriptions of places, situations or characters were made.
In fact, all characters seemed to be tired, bored and exasperated of living itself.
Sometimes the description of the narrator or of one of the other characters would go on saying that X or Y was like this and like that, when in fact, X or Y would be way too simplistic of a character to be able to hold onto such an image.As for the mystery itself: once you had all the clues (and boy, was there a problem with them being revealed), it was really logical and dull.
Θετικά στοιχεία:- Πολύ ωραία πλοκή και κατάληξη.
(Το κυριότερο)- Αν και σε μερικά σημεία η συγγραφέας ήταν φλύαρη, το θεώρησα εύληπτο και παρουσίαζε τα πράγματα με πολύ ωραίο τρόπο.- Στο μεγαλύτερο μέρος του βιβλίου η συγγραφέας χειρίζεται περίτεχνα τις σκέψεις του αναγνώστη.- Δεν μπόρεσα να υποψιαστώ τον δολοφόνο.- Μ' άρεσε που η πρωταγωνίστρια δεν είναι αστυνομικός, αλλά συγγραφέας.- 100% θα διαβάσω τα υπόλοιπα της σειράς.Αρνητικά στοιχεία:- Η μετάφραση χρειάζεται επιμέλεια, καθώς παρατήρησα διάφορα λάθη, από ασυνταξίες μέχρι κι έλλειψη λέξης.(view spoiler)[- Η αστυνομία ανακάλυψε ότι το θύμα ήταν έγκυος, αλλά δεν προέβη ποτέ σε έλεγχο να εξετάσει το γενετικό υλικό και να το ταυτοποιήσει, παρά υπήρχε ένα σύννεφο ασάφειας για το ποιος είναι ο πατέρας.
(hide spoiler)]- Μια αστοχία της Καμίλα: μέσα σε δύο σελίδες η μέρα δολοφονίας αλλάζει.
Στη μια περίπτωση αναφέρει ότι πέρασαν 3 εβδομάδες και ύστερα απο δύο σελίδες, στην ίδια αφήγηση, αλλάζει σε ενάμιση μήνα.
This was my first book by this author and I thoroughly enjoyed it.
I always like reading books set in Scandinavia and this one gave me lots of lovely descriptions of snow and beautiful Swedish settings.
I enjoyed the romance between Erica and Patrik and felt it only added to the overall story.
The mystery was suitably mysterious and I solved it just before the police did except that the solution was so horrible I did not want to believe it.
I raced my way through this book and only put it down once when I just had to sleep whether I liked it or not.
It soon becomes apparent that the small town of Fjallbacka has a lot of deep, dark secrets, some of them dating back for years, and Erica is determined to root through all of them to uncover the truth about the death of her friend.Inside this four-hundred-page book is a lean psychological thriller struggling to break free.
Patrik also allows Erica, a civilian, to take a role in the investigation that no real police detective would ever countenance.Toward the end, the book finally gathers steam and Lackberg produces a fairly interesting and entertaining conclusion.
Η “Παγωμένη Πριγκίπισσα” καταφέρνει με μέσα από την κεντρική ηρωίδα την η Ερίκα Φαλκ, μια νεαρή συγγραφέα να μας χαρίσει ένα ξεχωριστό μυθιστόρημα γεμάτο μυστήριο και αγωνία χωρίς να παραλείπει να εστιάσει στον τρόπο ζωής και στις αξίες της σουηδικής κοινωνίας.
Η ΄Αλεξ, αν και νεκρή έχει διαρκή παρουσία στο μυθιστόρημα μέσα από τις αναμνήσεις των οικείων της.
H Camilla Lackberg με φόντο τη Φιελμπάκα προβάλλει την κλειστή και ψυχρή κοινωνία της Σουηδίας.
Σίγουρα η “Παγωμένη Πριγκίπισσα” είναι το πρώτο βιβλίο της Lackberg που διάβασα αλλά όχι το τελευταίο.
O que Camilla Läckberg fez muito bem foi inserir um crime incomum num local pacato que conhece como ninguém (Fjällbacka, na Suécia, é afinal a localidade onde a escritora nasceu), criar uma teia de personagens com passados bem estruturados e segredos recônditos, e convidar o leitor a deslindar tamanha urdidura, o que torna a tarefa de pousá-lo muito difícil.
Deixou ainda propositadamente certos aspectos por desvendar, não relacionados com o crime, mas que fará qualquer leitor curioso e com aversão a pontas soltas querer ler o segundo volume da série [asap].
Ένα ακόμα καλογραμμένο αστυνομικό μυθιστόρημα από τη Σκανδιναβία.
H Camilla Lackberg is a new promising Swedish author of crime fiction. The "Frosted Princess" manages through its central heroine Erika Falk, a young writer to give us a unique novel full of mystery and suspense without failing to focus on the lifestyle and values of Swedish society. Love, loneliness, domestic violence, alcoholism, pedophilia presented sometimes subtly and sometimes directly around the axis of the murder of Alex, who is found dead in a bathtub by her childhood friend, Eric. The
H Camilla Lackberg is a new promising Swedish author of crime fiction.
The "Frosted Princess" manages through its central heroine Erika Falk, a young writer to give us a unique novel full of mystery and suspense without failing to focus on the lifestyle and values ​​of Swedish society.
The Alex, though still has a lasting presence in the novel through the memories of their of.
H Camilla Lackberg with background Fielmpaka bringing the cold and closed society of Sweden.
Surely the "Icy Princess" is the first book of Lackberg I have read but not the last.
Pretty darn good mystery here.
The very end may be a bit far fetched but it is fiction after all.
There is a romance in this mystery (which usually bugs the crap out of me but for some reason this one didn't).
One thing that did irk me is that author does mention how some of the characters feel about their physical image quite a bit.
Since this is mystery it felt a bit out of place (for me) in this setting.
It made me wonder if the author focuses on other peoples physical images in her own life.
Tiene algunos fallos que me resultarían intolerables en el caso de que me hubiera tomado esta lectura en serio, pero como no lo ha sido, simplemente me resultan anecdóticos:En primer lugar, la distribución cronológica de los hechos es confusa.
Además, la trama está montada a base de los famosos cliffhangers tipo "entró en la casa y encontró un papel en la basura y se quedó pensando en lo que acababa de leer pero no te lo revelaré hasta dentro de unas cincuenta páginas para resolver de golpe todo el misterio".
Al final dejé de notarlo, pero no hay ni un solo diálogo que no pareciera sacado de una función de teatro hecha por alumnos de primaria.
Sinceramente... estava à espera de algo mais frenético. Recomendações de outros thrillers mais entusiasmantes? Anyone?
I love some really terrible books and I am not ashamed of it and neither should you.
When I suggested this book as a read for my Read Around the World Bookclub it was on the basis of the marketing for this book as a "hard-hitting Scandi-crime novel that explores the difference in Swedish society between rich and poor, small town Sweden...".
They are honest about what they are, reading one, I expect outragous storylines, crazy people, over description of everything and outlandish crimes with weird motives.
In short: This was the worst book I have read (and finished) and a very long time.
Agatha của em có thể sẵn sàng cho thám tử hay cảnh sát của mình soi tới từng con vi khuẩn một tại hiện trường chứ không như này đâu các bác :|Điều rút ra sau cuốn sách : viết truyện trinh thám rất chi là khó, chắc sẽ khó hơn viết truyện tình.
I enjoyed the book, Camilla Lackberg's first, although there were a few issues/unlikely scenarios in
Los libros de misterios y asesinatos suelen gustarme, y si está ambientado en el frío nórdico ya tiene mucho ganado. En este caso, a parte del asesinato estándar, hay muchas subtramas que abordan temas del maltrato, adicciones, abusos sexuales... y se agradece que no sea todo un monotema.El desenlace estuvo a la altura, no dejó cabo sueltos y aunque se sabía que el asesino sería una mujer volcaba mis sospechas en otra persona, con lo cual ha sido muy grato equivocarme.3,5/5
Scrittura fruibile e storia con degli incastri piuttosto logici, a lettura ultimata.Da salami in testa i personaggi, tagliati con l'accetta e un po' banalotti nei cliché che veicolano; si poteva fare di più anche su certi passaggi narrativi, altamente improbabili e inseriti con la sola esigenza di mandare avanti la trama.
Pretty dreadful. I'm not quite sure how I read the whole thing--in little bits and pieces over the semester, I think--maybe that prevented me from seeing its full lameness? Dunno. Turns out not all Scandanavian crime fiction is fantastic.
πρώτο βιβλίο που διαβάζω από Λάκμπεργκ και έμεινα αρκετά ικανοποιημένη. πλούσια ιστορία, με εντάσεις και αγωνία
3'75El daño del silencio no se puede reparar.
The detective who's investigating the case, Patrik Hedström, is another friend from childhood, but when they meet again after all these years their relationship quickly becomes something more than friendship.This is the first book in the Patrik Hedström and Erica Falck series.
But I didn't feel that at all in this case – this is an excellent debut, with a strong plot and with two main characters who very quickly become people the reader can like and care about.
2,5*"Είσαι ερωτική,ευφυής,υπέροχη στο κρεβάτι,αλλά πάνω απ'όλα,και πιο πάνω κι απ'αυτό,είσαι υπέροχη
Ogni volta che si fa qualche progresso sull’omicidio uno dei due ci arriva con una sorta di “mi è venuta in mente una cosa…” e tramite collegamenti logici assai fragili e piuttosto banali il lettore si ritrova così, spiazzatamente, allo stadio successivo nel percorso verso la risoluzione del caso, con un’espressione tipo: “Wtf?” Almeno la lettura è scorrevole, tranne quando l’autrice fa arenare la trama in lunghe e tediose riflessioni sull’intimità della vita privata di Erica Falck, la scrittrice di Fjällbacka, e il suo “uomo del Bingo”.
