https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/624988.The_Harder_They_Fall
I read this some years back, but got into a discussion with a friend of mine recently about Primo Carnera, the real life boxer upon whom this novel is based.
Here are my thoughts: Toro Molina (based on real life Primo Carnera) is a prizefighter imported from Argentina (Italy in Carnera’s case).
Unbeknownst to him the promoters fix all his fights, the idea being to build him up to a championship bout.
All along the way the promoters make a bundle betting the fights.
The story is told from the point of view of a freelance writer hired to publicize and spin the story.
A propulsive and extraordinarily bleak semi-roman à clef about the "career" of enormous heavyweight boxer Primo Carnera (here represented as "Toro Molina," an equally prodigious Argentine peasant), The Harder They Fall is among the best novels I've ever read.
The descriptions of the boxing action are top-notch (Schulberg's two collections of writing about boxing, Ringside and Sparring with Hemingway, aren't exactly Liebling-quality, but they're very good), with special praise reserved for the match where massive Native American heavyweight "Chief Thunderbird" decides to make his "job" (i.e., his pre-arranged loss to Molina) look more believable by putting chicken wire around his lips and gums.
Budd Schulberg's second novel, written in 1947, is nowhere near as well known as the Humphrey Bogart film that was made from it several years later.
The book is simultaneously funnier and much darker than the film, and ends on an even lower note.
That pessimism is balanced with almost sparkly writing, filled with individual sketches of every character, wry observations on life, and a Runyonesque ear for slang and patter.
There is some speculation that the book (like his first, "What Makes Sammy Run") was based upon real characters from Schulberg's own interesting life and career.
I need more gold, Eddie, and then I'll-go to Mexico, six months, maybe a year, rediscover my soul, Eddie.But Dave, I can't figure it.
You've been making big dough for years.
For two or three seconds in his life he had a glimpse of glory, and down through the shabby years of obscurity, those precious drops of time have grown and grown until they have blotted out the rest of his memory.""Some day, if I played my cards right, things would be different.""All right, Eddie.
He had said all of you.""All I had written was the first act of a bad play.
Like all Budd Schulberg's novels this one is about artistic and ethical integrity as well as the very colourfully-depicted world of the story.
Schulberg handles a large cast of characters and makes each so distinctive that you can feel their presence in the room with you.I laughed a laugh of horrified recognition when a former champ goes over his ghostwritten copy and starts telling the writer how to do his job.
There's much smart, snappy humour like that but Schulberg pulls no punches and you know there's never going to be any syrupy sentiment to take away the sting.Apparently there's a Bogart movie but I don't think I could watch it now; after Schulberg's storytelling it would be bound to feel fake.
Beaten to DeathBudd Schulberg wrote four novels, all downbeat.
This one is not as good, but is better than What Makes Sammy Run - which it resembles.
He is a very accomplished writer, and in this tale of Toro Molina, the Primo Carnera story is retold by hack PR Eddie (who is clearly the Budd character).
Budd seems to specialise in them.If you ever saw the film, forget it.
It's a good read, a fine boxing novel, with the only sympathetic character the black sparring partner, George, who has life figured out.
I remember reading What Makes Sammy Run by Schulberg as a college assignment many years ago.
I loved the book then and read a few more times.
The Harder They Fall was another treat in the same vein centered on the boxing racket in the 1940s.
It was every bit as gripping as Sammy.
There are numerous characters--mostly sleazy--except for a hapless Argentinian giant who despite his size will never be a successful boxer.I didn't like it quite as much but the only reason is boxing resonates less with me than the world of entertainment as appeared in Sammy.
Definitely a gripping read.
Well-written, propulsive, a bit funny and a bit sad with a uniquely mid-20th-century American energy and cynicism to it. It was like watching a great forgotten noir movie play out in my mind, something like Sweet Smell of Success. You need some level of interest in/familiarity with boxing for it to work on you though.


Though the fight scenes are visceral and vividly written, the book is almost more about the shady characters that infest the boxing world than the fights themselves.
Which is good, because those characters (and there are a lot of them here) are fascinating in their own right.
However, the book isn't quite as good as Schulberg's great What Makes Sammy Run?, mostly because this is more of an ensemble narrative without a strong, compelling central character like Sammy Glick.
No less an authority than Gene Tunney said it was the best boxing book he had ever read, and you can't get a much stronger endorsement than that.
"Budd Schulberg's (who wrote the screenplay for On the Waterfront) whole trilogy is amazing and each captures a different historical era.
is Ari Gold before Ari Gold existed--purportedly based on Samuel Goldwyn (of MGM) and Darryl Zanuck.
His next book, The Harder They Fall, is about boxing and loosely based on the Primo Carnera scandal.
All you need to know about Schulberg's writing is captured in this quote from his obituary: "It's the writer's responsibility to stand up against that power.
The writers are really almost the only ones, except for very honest politicians, who can make any dent on that system.
Well written, though clearly from a different era. The ending hits particularly hard. It's a shame this didn't do very much to reform boxing. The protagonist is particularly uninteresting, but the cast of characters does much to enhance it. I'm amazed that some of the sections in this book ever got published in the 1940s.
Decided to read a second Schulberg and, holy fuck, this might be even better than "What Makes Sammy Run?"It's not like Schulberg is *unknown*, but how is he not considered an absolute titan of American literature? "Sammy" and this still hold up today better than just about any works from that era and both still manage to feel as sharp and fresh as if they were written just this week!
Good book part of our "hard boiled bogart novel/movie seriesWe are using this novel as part of the Novel/Movie series "Hard Boiled Bogart." The Bogart character is much more interesting in the book. And the book doesn't have the "happily ever after" ending in the movie.
While I think W.C. Heinz' The Professional is the best novel on the sweet science, The Harder They Fall might be the best novel on the fight game - especially the mobbed-up boxing scene of the 30s-50s.
Vintage 1947 edition
