https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20949469-a-crime-in-holland
A Crime in Holland (also published as Maigret in Holland) begins with a picture-postcard view of Delfzijl, numbering just a few thousand in 1931, when Georges Simenon’s slim novel was first published.
But it isn’t long before Detective Chief Inspector Jules Maigret uncovers the savage emotions barely contained beneath the pretty surfaces.
So, when Naval College professor Conrad Popinga is shot on his very doorstep and a French citizen is suspected, Maigret heads from Paris to the Netherlands’ northeast border with Germany, and the surly chief inspector proceeds to offend the über-polite, –repressed and — –repressive — bourgeoisie of Delfzijl.
Not a book to make your acquaintance with the writing of Georges Simenon and his wonderful creation - Chief Inspector Maigret.
It is a confusing plot set in Holland; the French police are requested to go to support a French national who is being asked to remain in the locality following an unresolved murder, Maigret is sent and soon carrying out his own investigation.The sad aspect of this case is that the Dutch police and local community are not keen to reveal the truth; that almost reflects the value of this story; "who did it?
Knowing a little about the Chief Inspector's reputation we can expect him to deliver the goods in his steady methodical way, but the investigation will be hampered, first by his not being able to speak Dutch, and secondly by a small cast of characters who as expected have their own secrets to hide from him and from the close community they all live in.Maigret travels to the northern end of Holland to assist a French criminology lecturer, Professor Jean Duclos, who has been caught up with the murder of a teacher in the Dutch port of Delfzijl.
Maybe only 3.5 stars but he sure can tell a cracking good (and complex) plot succinctly.
Simenon's novels are an acquired taste.
It's a bit like eating something unusual for the first time (think Wasabi encrusted peanuts)-- you may not be sure it is to your taste, but you keep nibbling.Simenon is a master of the environments he writes about.
It is intoxicating for me and I particularly love the Maigret books that are set in Paris.
It is a charming way to visit Paris for a few hours, savouring the food and the drinks that Maigret often over-indulges in.BUT, this book was set in Holland.
****.The Dutch police department has invited Inspector Maigret to a small town in northern Holland to investigate a murder.
He was asked to contribute his skills because one of the suspects was a French citizen.
That all of this contributed to the difficulty of dealing with the shooting death of one of the leading citizens was obvious.
Simenon manages to convey the spirit of a small Dutch town and its people very well in this novel, but soon exposes the underlying common traits to all other people of the world when it comes to the basic passions.
Maigret is in a very bad mood as he attempts to solve a murder in a small seaside village in Holland. He was called in to investigate because a French citizen was being held as a suspect. Maigret faces language problems. He finds the tidiness of the village and its inhabitants irritating. Human relations are messy even in an overly tidy village. Maigret solves the crime.
Highly enjoyable Maigret story. Particularly enjoyable for anybody who has had to put up with strict Dutch protestants telling him what to do. The character cast is superb, and the way Maigret treads on other peoples' toes is a joy
This is one of the earlier Maigret novels, in which Maigret travels to the tiny Dutch town of Delfzijl to unofficially investigate the murder of a local professor, as one of the suspects is a French national.
Maigret is handicapped not only by the fact that he speaks no Dutch, but also the town’s tight-knit community that looks after their own.
In a way the story is somewhat pedestrian in terms of the small-town trope and the eventual solution to the crime (and a rather sexist one at that, although this was written in the early 1930s).
I'm reading this because my library has only one non-Maigret title ('The Nightclub,' which I read and loved) and about 20 Maigrets. I recently finished Simenon's 'The Man Who Watched Trains Go By' and curiously, the protagonist of that novel and the murdered man in this one share a surname: Popinga. Other than that, there is little similarity. J'aime les romains durs... It's his 'hard novels' I love. The Maigrets I find rather comic. But they'll do in a pinch. >>>>>>>>&gt
I'm reading this because my library has only one non-Maigret title ('The Nightclub,' which I read and loved) and about 20 Maigrets.
I recently finished Simenon's 'The Man Who Watched Trains Go By' and curiously, the protagonist of that novel and the murdered man in this one share a surname: Popinga.
J'aime les romains durs...
It's his 'hard novels' I love.
It was mildly interesting, with none of the psychological depth or astute painting of society that his romains durs have.
This is only the second Maigret I've read and I don't know that I'll read many more.
An early Maigret, typical of the first ten, all published together in 1932.
A good study of small-town bourgeois Dutch life.The GR blurb:'Duclos said in an undertone, pointing to the scene all round them, the picture-book town, with everything in its place, like ornaments on the mantlepiece of a careful housewife .
'Everyone here earns his living.
And above all, everyone keeps his instincts under control, because that's the rule here, and a necessity if people want to live in society'When a French professor visiting the quiet, Dutch coastal town of Delfzjil is accused of murder, Maigret is sent to investigate.
When Maigret heads to Holland to find out why a French citizen is being detained in a murder investigation, he goes without any knowledge of Dutch language.
As he begins his quiet investigation, he discovers a community that cares more about its image, remaining scandal-free, genteel, and proper than it wants to solve a crime.
Despite the language barrier, Maigret develops a distant, wary understanding with a well-known boat owner known as the Baes (the boss).
Although the two never speak, as they eye each other from afar each day, Maigret begins to see the man as the conscience of the entire village.
This is a classic Maigret mystery, set in the small canal-side community of Delfzijl, Holland.
It is well observed in terms of details of human behavior and place.
The brusque French inspector finds himself the outsider in the close-knit Protestant group that values stability and appearances highly.
Maigret has his work cut out for him.Fun Fact: Simenon was in this area of Holland to get his boat caulked and only played with the place names a bit to make them 'fictional.' It is said, he wrote the book while there.
This is now the 8th Maigret story I have read.
By this time one is familiar with Maigret and his sphinx like approach.
His approach and his cooperation with other police departments is rarely friendly.
He does tend to have a very successful imagination as to what happen in conversations and actions that he was not present at.
These stories are short and they do seem to focus on the human condition as the explanation for the crime.
This one had a "woman scorned" as the person of action.
(There are several women who could qualify for that so it is not a spoiler).
I think this has been my least favourite Maigret book so far. It was still well written and interesting just not as good overall.After a French citizen is accused of murder in Holland, Maigret is sent to lend a hand to the investigation. His policing style seems greatly at odds with the Dutch officers as he seeks out the true murderer of Conrad Popinga. Plot is good overall although I didn't have great feeling to any of the characters. But I love Simenons writing so will continue to read his other work.
Inspector Maigret has gone to Holland to look into the case of a French citizen involved in a murder. He doesn't speak Dutch and not everybody in the town of Delfzijl speaks French. Nevertheless he finds that even in a prim and proper Dutch town, things are not always what they seem. Several people could be plausibly suspected. Maigret gathers the clues to eliminate the suspects, leaving the guilty person, in another intriguing episode.
Maigret still seems faceless at this point in the series -- all we get in this installment is his bulk, his "thirst ", and his extreme crankiness. I hope he stays the heck out of Holland from now on.
Maigret goes to Holland. Sort of like a sitcom where the family goes on vacation somewhere and it seems weird but it's kinda fun to see the characters in a strange setting...still, it always ends up being not as good as a normal episode.
fast book to read with about 140 pages of a mystery in a small Dutch village!
Review is pending...
Vẫn phong cách nhẩn nha quen thuộc của Simenon, nhưng hấp dẫn nhờ tác giả khéo đẩy mức độ căng thẳng tăng dần, cho đến cao trào phá án độc đáo và kịch tính.
Maigret here looks like a magician pulling murderer like a rabbit from hat in some illusionist's trick. Wife of the dead is most pitiable of them all.
The Dutch inspector in charge of the investigation, anxious to close the case as swiftly as possible, pins the blame for the murder on a foreign sailor who would have already left Delfzijl, waiting for Maigret to share his view.To my taste this is one of the best books in the early Maigret series, the so-called Fayard cycle, comprising the nineteen novels published between 1931 and 1934.
I will certainly include A Crime in Holland among my favourite Maigret books.
If you are thinking in reading only one book in this series, choose this one.
A hidden gem, in one of my favourite series.
When a French professor of criminal justice is involved in a murder while on a lecture tour, Inspector Maigret is sent by the French government to assess the situation and assist in the investigation.Initially, there are no apparent motives for any of the parties involved for this murder.
Despite the language barrier, Maigret throws himself into the investigation and insists on getting to the bottom of things even though the easiest solution is to lay the blame on an unknown foreign sailor who had already left port.
Reading Maigret is a different experience from reading Holmes, de Luce, or Whimsy.
Unlike his famous multi-series counterparts, Maigret is a relatively ordinary man with an unassuming intelligence, and only the smallest of quirks (pipe-smoking, his liking to put on grumpy appearances) to distinguish him.
Simenon does some strange things with his writing style that are hard to take to at first but one gradually gets used to it; for instance, he mostly follows Maigret's perspective but abruptly turns away whenever Maigret assumes his more solemn and indifferent countenance, much to the bewilderment of other characters seeking to get a response out of him.
Outstanding.
This one (Maigret #8) started slowly for me - frustrating even.
Simenon lost his touch on here, I thought.
Maigret is in Holland and speaks none of the languages (Dutch, English and even Spanish being various options for the locals in the village where the murder has occurred).
He is monolingual - French is his only option.
He struggles to understand and to be understood (hence my initial frustrations with reading the book).
He solves the mystery - to the utter misery of the insular and protective villagers - and perhaps even his own dismay at having accomplished it.
I've been reading Inspector Maigret books since I was in my teens and this is the first time I've read such a child like interpretation of any of Georges Simenon books.
It was a good story but it only took a few hours to get through.
I remember reading Inspector Maigret books and taking a week or more to get through it.
Always worth it with the great descriptions.
This version had hardly any descriptions.
I don't know if it's a different editor or what but I'll be happy to hunt up some old copies of the books and read them instead.
C’est un roman policier agréable à lire avec personnages et de lieux intéressants. Ce roman n'est pas le meilleur des aventures de Maigret, mais il est remarquable pour les descriptions de la vie des habitants de la Hollande, de ses habitudes et du caractère d’ austerité protestante. Il y a aussi une reconstitution méticuleuse de la soirée du crime qui est importante et délicieuse de poursuivre: une intrigue autour de cette mort a un rôle important dans cette affaire. Comme toujours Maigret montre d’une très grande perseverance que lui aide a découvrir la verité.
Ho faticato a terminare questa indagine di Maigret, forse anche dal fatto che l'ho dovuto interrompere un paio di volte per vari motivi. O forse a contribuito a questa "fatica" nel portarlo a termine il fatto che il nostro commissario si trova ad indagare su un omicidio in un paese a lui straniero e dove non riesce a comunicare bene con gli autoctoni. Fatto sta che alla fine trova il bandolo della matassa e risolve il caso.
This 1931 Inspector Maigret mystery has in interesting, colorful 152 page setting in a small-town Dutch village. Maigret deals with a convoluted plot compounded by language problems. He speaks French, of course, but not all the suspects do. At 152 pages, this 2014 edition (translated by Sian Reynolds) is a quick, fun read.
