https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/280989.Colour_Scheme
This is the twelfth Inspector Alleyn mystery, although Inspector Alleyn does not feature until fairly late in the novel.
It is set in New Zealand, in a hot springs resort, run by Colonel Edward Claire, his wife, Agnes, and their grown children, Barbara and Simon.
Before long, arguments are brewing, Barbara is causing a lot of male confusion and one of the party goes missing… Of course, Ngaio Marsh was from New Zealand, and there is much about the Maori’s in this novel, which is very interesting.
Both Gaunt, and Dr Ackrington, are irascible and the various characters flare up into almost constant arguments and conflict.
(That dubious honor must go to the plodding Overture To Death.) But Colour Scheme suffers from one of the same setbacks: Inspector Alleyn isn't introduced until too late in the novel.
Colour Scheme simply doesn't rank with Marsh's better works, such as A Man Lay Dead, Artists in Crime, or Death In A White Tie.Most readers will prefer the very next novel Ngaio Marsh wrote, Died In The Wool, which is likewise set in New Zealand.
It provides a different glimpse into the country, this time at life on New Zealand's sheep stations, but the story is more absorbing and more lively, and, happily, Inspector Alleyn in introduced right from the start.
But the real reason I keep returning to Marsh is this; consider how she introduces the character of Maurice Questing;"Maurice Questing was about fifty years old and so much a type that a casual observer would have found it difficult to describe him.
His speech, both in accent and in choice of words, was an affair of mass production rather than selection.
Yet though he was as voluble as a radio advertiser, shooting out his machine-turned phrases in a loud voice, and with a great air of assurance, every word he uttered seemed synthetic and quite unrelated to his thoughts."A wordsmith if there ever was one.
She's a perfectly good mystery writer, even if I don't love her as I do Sayers.
I think I resent the relationships-of-the-case, because the other is apparently happening off-page.As is often the case with Marsh, the victim was fairly universally hated.
Which is probably a sign of good writing/character development.Also, I like Alleyn's role in this, even if he doesn't show up until midway through.And I really liked the New Zealand setting.
I don't think I'd read any books set in New Zealand before Marsh.
And to be honest, I'd never given a thought to what it would have been like in New Zealand during WWII until now.
3.5*While I enjoyed the north New Zealand setting, this WW2 mystery/spy thriller struck me as more dated than some of her more traditional mysteries. Even though this came across to me as more of a spy story than a murder mystery, Marsh did 'play fair' with the clues being there for the observant reader (which wasn't me this time!)I did appreciate how Marsh managed to get in a touch of the theater world even among the mud pots of Rotorua with visiting actor Gaunt and his entourage! :)
It is 1943, deep in the midst of World War II, and Detective Chief Inspector Roderick Alleyn has been sent to New Zealand to look for spies when he gets a letter from Dr. James Ackrington that he is certain that a spy is inhabiting Wai-ata-Tapu Hot Springs, which are thermal springs with mud baths and mineral waters full of “alkalize, free sulfuric acid, and free carbolic acid gas” in Colour Scheme.
Dr Ackrington receives a letter from a doctor friend asking if the famous Shakespearean actor, Geoffery Gaunt, might be allowed to spend some time at the Hot Springs doing hydrotherapy.
Very entertaining and Alleyn's appearance surprised me.
(Surprise #2).As for the plot and characters, this is now among my favorites of this series in both.
The plot itself was one that you could feel building and could even predict somewhat what was going to happen, which I normally do not enjoy, however, in this book it completely worked at sucking me in and keeping me on the edge waiting for the murder to happen (Surprise #4).Finally, the ending where the killer is revealed and explained I found to be phenomenal!
I loved how surprising it was and yet how it all worked in completely with the plot that had been building.
Once someone gets snuffed, investigation and all is wrapped up in about 48 hrs, thanks to the superior talents of Reinforcements from Back Home, in the shape of a particularly unconvincing Roderick Alleyn.There's no humour in this installment, but a great deal of Empire classism, racism, sexism and uglyism, not helped by Marsh's feeble attempt to inject a little Ro-mance into the text at all the wrong moments.
She's done the thing with the Maori mere before, and it added very little at all to the plot this time around.
Marsh is no Christie.
Whilst it is undoubtedly a well-written and plotted novel, it certainly does take some time to a)get round to the corpse (and even that is only partial in the end) and b) for the disguised detective to tell us who has killed the vile Mr Questing.
In all honesty, by that time I really didn't care, and felt the device of disguising Marsh's famous detective, Inspector Roderick Alleyn as the ridiculously named Septimus Falls was, frankly, ludicrous.
I have a couple more Marsh novels to get through, again courtesy of Holywell Hospital, and am hopeful that they will be more rewarding than this.
One of the strongest of Marsh's books in terms of setting and culture.
A New Zealand spa, built around a set of natural hot mud pools, is practically within shouting distance of a Maori village.
He entices Geoffrey Gaunt, star Shakespearean actor, into settling in for a cure in the mud pools.
That's where it becomes too real for Gaunt.
Ultimately all the characters are stripped of protective artifice.This is a strong example of Marsh's talent, but I don't think I'm going to buy the audio.
If I had not know going in that this was a murder mystery, I wouldn't have guessed it in the first half of the book.
We meet various colorful characters at a spa in New Zealand, where they mostly bicker.
The only hint of mystery is the conviction of some members of the family that owns the spa that someone, perhaps their unpleasant guest Questing, is an enemy spy and gave information leading to the recent torpedoing of a ship nearby.
Very odd pacing.Incidentally, my 1971 paperback says "100th anniversary edition," but the book was first published in 1943.
This book is full of disagreeable people and hardly features Mr. Alleyn at all.
It's extremely dated and hardly worthy of Ms. Marsh.
It's got a dreadful attitude to the native New Zealand population, a hearty disrespect for the transplanted Britishers who one supposes are the protagonists, and the murder victim is a disgusting lecherous creep.
Even the romance doesn't quite come off.
I continued to listen to the end because I am reading all of the Alleyn books in order, but I have to say you could totally skip this one.
I'm surprised at reviews which call this one of her best. I thought the Claire's were very cartoonistly drawn, and unbelievable. They seemed to be a parody of the much more believable family in "Died in Wool". And, I'm not clear as to whom 'Septimus Falls' was supposed to be fooling. He made his true identity known to some, and I'm not sure it would have mattered to the other characters.
Well, that was tedious.
Not one of my favourites, but Marsh does a great job in misdirection here. The indicators are plain, but she still manages to deceive.
The writing here is often awfully good, and aside from Questing, the characters are in each case not like those in any previous book.
This is the first Marsh set entirely in her native New Zealand (the country does appear somewhat briefly in "Surfeit of Lampreys"), and the country and its native Maori inhabitants are treated with respect.
As usual, there are about eight possible suspects.
But hopefully, Nigel Bathgate, who does not appear for the second book in a row, is gone for good.What keeps me from five stars is that the ending, while it had some pluses, was somehow not fully satisfying.
"It was a horrible death - Maurice Questing was lured into a pool of boiling mud and left there to die.Chief Inspector Allen, far from home on a wartime quest for German agents, knew that any number of people could have killed him: the English exiles he'd hated, the New Zealander's he'd despised or the Maoris he'd insulted.
It sets up the story of a small group of people in a remote run-down health resort in New Zealand.
The upper classes are refined but unworldly and incompetent, but the upwardly mobile, in the form of Mr Questing, are presented as vulgar and grasping.
Many people have said that this isn't one of Marsh's better books, but I beg to disagree.
This book reminded me of the very first Alleyn story, which is told from the POV of Nigel Bathgate.
In this one, Dikon Bell serves the same purpose but without any kind of ulterior motive (such as Bathgate's desire for a news story).
But what I liked best about this one was that Marsh's love and understanding of New Zealand and the Maori culture absolutely shines through.
Instead, revel in the atmosphere and sense of place that Marsh provides through her own love of New Zealand.
Their daughter Barbara is a rather colorless girl, and their son Simon is a lout, who hangs out with the worst elements of the nearby young Maoris.
To the spa comes Geoffrey Gaunt, a famous Shakespearean actor, with his secretary Dikon and his dresser - it is rather a comedown from what he is used to, but the hot springs are supposed to help him.
Much later, the somewhat mysterious Septimus Falls also arrives with a case of Lumbago.
Maurice Questing has an interest in the spa, and seems to be a bit of a rotter.
12th in the Scotland Yard Chief Inspector Detective Roderick Alleyn series, though Alleyn only enters midway through and without Fox, Bailey, and the others on the Scotland Yard police force.
The spa is run by the hapless Claire family (parents, son, daughter, and brother/uncle), who from the start of the novel seem to variously resent, fear, suspect, and work to appease Maurice Questing, a businessman staying there.
When he dies in horrifying circumstances, there's no lack of suspects.
The scenery is dramatic, but I prefer Alleyn throughout and in full police persona.
Enjoyable murder mystery set during WW2 in New Zealand.
The Claires are a decayed gentry family running a health spa at Wai-at a-tapu among hot springs and pools of boiling mud.
Mrs Claire's irascible brother, Dr Ackrington, is convinced that the vulgar Mr Questing, a resident of Wai-ata-tapu,is a Nazi spy, and keeps writing to the authorities about him.
there are some interesting characters in this story, and the descriptions of the extraordinary landscape are fascinating.
ACtually, I think this story would have been quite interesting even without a murder, which in any case doesn't occur until more than halfway through the book.
The murder mystery dosn't actually atart until 200 pages in, the detective later, and it's all a bit cliché really isn't it: The poor but hard working family under duress from evil businessman, the daugther who does not know she is pretty, the possible spy lurking...But then I realised that I am probably no longer comparing this to Agatha Christie (or the other 2 in this quartet of grand old ladys of crime fiction), rather I am used to the tempo and tongue-in-cheek version of the genre in "Murder in Paradise", where the body drops in spectacular fashion in the first few seconds, and it's all wrapped up nicely in 35(?) minutes.
This was the second of two Ngaio Marsh novels I read while on holiday in New Zealand.
After the thoroughly disappointing Vintage Murder, Colour Scheme was a real surprise.
This book is barely an Alleyn novel, but it is a tense mystery.
The mystery isn't peripheral to what the book has to say, it is at the centre of it.
This is a tightly written novel about a moment in time when class, race and colonial tensions boil over into debates about war and loyalty.
Unlike Vintage Murder, the book's aging makes it more, not less relevant.
A well worthwhile read.
Set in New Zealand and no open sign of Roderick Alleyn yet.
Preoccupied with war, patriotism, spies, colonial ties, this has not engaged me fully or allowed suspension of disbelief.Fascinating insight into life for Maoris and white men, but the snobbery that places white gentlemen in a vastly superior position to 'natives' comes across as SO politically incorrect and unjustifiable that it makes it hard to stomach.
Of course, it is fascinating in the sociological insight it affords, but I find it makes for uncomfortable reading.
But it is set in depressingly pinched, depressed and difficult times and has not engaged my empathy.
#12 in the suave and debonair, Scotland Yard Superintendent Roderick Alleyn mystery series.
Alleyn is detached, sophisticated and expensively educated.
There’s a side-plot about WWII spies.The supporting cast of characters are like people out of a comic opera (thus producing a very light tone): the blundering Claires (it’s a marvel how the colonel reached such a rank and Uncle James is quite bombastic) who own the local resort, an acclaimed actor and his personal assistant, the drunk handiman, and the local Maoris.
Maori subplot plot elements infuse the story with exoticism.
This is my first Ngaio Marsh, and it's a good 'un.
Marsh, often compared to Agatha Christie, and called "the finest writer in English of the classical puzzle whodunnit" by the Sun, was born and bred in New Zealand.
Her name is Maori.
This book was written in 1943, and concerns s--in part-- possible spies for the Germans, embedded in the New Zealand countryside.
It features a cast of colorful (or perhaps colourful characters, some New Zealanders, some Maoris, some Brits, and a gruesome murder (off stage, for those squeamish readers) of an odious character.
This is a fine introduction to the genre .
The first time I read this I was like "Why is this an Alleyn?" This was my second time around.
I really enjoyed the flavour of contemporary New Zealand, and the colour was fantastic.
I honestly never like Ngaio Marsh's cast of characters as individuals, and if it was a book where I was supposed to like the characters, I'd enjoy this book less.
But as a mystery novel, they are players on a stage and I get to enjoy the drama playing out in front of me, and boy was this drama fun.
I didn't guess the ending, and I didn't even get the twist.
This story can probably be regarded as a whodunnit, but is in some ways reminiscent of a Graham Greene novel.It is set in New Zealand during WW2.
A rather hopeless family are running a spa hotel, in fact they are sometimes so hopeless they become irritating.
A British actor and his entourage arrive for treatment.
It is believed that there has been some plundering of Maori items, and also that there is a spy in the vicinity.The book is longer than most by this author, and there seems to be quite a lot of repetition as well as prolonged analysis of events.
The characters were convincing and realistic and my opinion of them was constantly changing as the stress of their situation brought forth their true natures. While I may not have liked some of their reactions, it made them even more human to me. The setting was pretty frightening... practically a hellscape in my mind. And the way the victim met their end was especially gruesome and completely unique. In the end I liked this one a lot more than I thought I would.
