https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114345.The_Little_House_Collection
I still found it immensely enjoyable, but with one striking difference: When I was a child, Pa Ingalls seemed like the coolest dad on the planet - he played the fiddle, made his own bullets and took his family on all sorts of adventures all over the unsettled west.
As an adult, however, I thought Pa came off like a flakey dreamer who put his family through years of hell, always claiming "Caroline!
On re-reading, I thought the series must be missing the volumes "Little House on the San Andreas Fault", "On the Slopes of Angry Volcano" and "By the Toxic Tidepools of Three-Mile Island."
I'd been reading for a long time already, so loved a new book...but disappointment set in as my classmates who got their books first opened them before I had a chance to open mine, and they were all the same: A beginner children's book called "The Big Snow." (I think) It was about a kid getting dressed to go out into the snow.
I wanted to cry.And then when I opened MY book, it was  Little House in the Big Woods.
I read this series when I was in fourth grade...so it was many many years ago. However, the story has not left my mind. I absolutely adored these books, and I'm sure I would love them just as much if I re-read them! I remembered feeling as though I was with Laura's family during every journey they went through. It's a fascinating story - and a true one at that. I'd recommend that everyone reads this series at least once in their life!
After reading about all of the work that went into obtaining honey, cheese, eggs, grain, meat, oats, and butter, I'm grateful that I can make a quick trip to the grocery store and spend my time doing other things!I enjoyed every character in this series.
She was a true pioneer and worked hard for everything that she achieved in her life.I also enjoyed the fact that there was a strong father figure in these books, who loved his girls and taught them to work for their dreams.
I just finished a ramble though the pioneer prairies with Laura and enjoyed it throughly.
I know there is an outcry about the treatment and representation of Native Americans in these books, not to mention women, African Americans, and children.
But let's calm our politically correct minds for a moment and think about the treasure of literature these books are.
It's not like Laura is out there advocating Native American oppression!
These books are her memories (or maybe her daughter's interpretations of the stories she heard) and that's how it was for her and her pioneer family.
Laura gifted us with these memories - let us use them wisely.
These books taught me to fall in love with reading.
Not only did these books teach me so much about life in general *such as how to make cheese from scratch* but they really just expanded my worldview as a child.
Classics that will be a wholesome, entertaining read for all generations--who doesn't love a realistic glimpse into early Americana?
Yup, I'd read this story as a 25 year old, and love as much as I did when I was an 8 yr.
old, but perhaps with a deeper understanding.
After a couple of days immersed in this series for the first time in I don't know how many years, I'm left bemused in a lot of ways.From a historical standpoint, there's little else out there for kids that is this rich and complete.
So many of the things I didn't like were cultural and I feel as if I haven't any right to not like them, if that makes any sense.
It's the way things were then, and ought to be presented as such.
I haven't a thing in common with any of them, I don't think.
Most people love these novels, and I can't for the life of me understand why. I was given the collection growing up and read them, but I never cared much for them and never re-read them.
It has been a really long time since then and I can hardly remember most of the stories from the book, but I still remember the sense of excitement and adventure in these books.
Laura and her family were pioneers, and as a young girl she met each move with a sense of adventure and openness to the world.
I also loved that the girl was called Laura like me.These stories are a true testament to the amazing spirit of the pioneers.
I don't long for those times, because the life was hard and not everyone made it as Laura's family did, but I love the simplicity and teamwork of their little lives.
I started my youngest on reading this series and then thought, "I should really read these again." It's been years but they are still just as magical and wonderful as the first time I read them; although I have way more respect for what it must have been like to do the work I do every day in the home but with no technology or ease.
The wonderful part about these books is that while you are engrossed in reading about pioneer and settler life, you are also getting the positive messages of work hard, have integrity, be cheerful and grateful, do the right thing and life will just work out.
I have, ever since I was 8 and received a box set of the "Little House" books, adored each and every single one of them.
These books are so fascinating, for anyone remotely interested in history, that it makes it impossible to put them down.The writing itself is fine.
Let us remember that Laura Ingalls Wilder was a teacher in the late 1800's, and that she always received top marks in grammar and reading.
Even looking over her books now, as persnickety as I am about poor spelling/grammar/editing, while her language is simplistic, there is nothing wrong with the way she writes.These books are meant to be treasured.
this book series will bring warmth to your heart and fun to your mind. this true storie writen by laura ingalls wilder herself is amazing it will bring you into her storie in the 1870's and i love this classic book series.
When I travel on book tours, I prefer home hospitality rather than staying in a hotel.
The homes I stay at typically put me up in a guest bedroom that previously belonged to a child who has since left the nest.
Often the child’s books are still there.On my recent book tour in Florida, I spent the night in my host's daughter's bedroom where I saw Little House on the Prairie on the bookshelf.
Amazingly, I think they stand up pretty well 70 years later.However, I’ve recently learned that Wilder’s stories are a lot more fiction than autobiography, and that there appears to be a political slant behind them.
It's nearly impossible not to fall in love with the Ingalls family, who are each filled with such optimism, strength and spirit.Of course, as an adult, some things struck me a bit differently than as a child.
As much as I still adored Pa for his sense of adventure and obvious love of his family, I did question some of his decisions as he risked his family's lives moving them to one new location after another.
Pa does remind his family that "the Indians" are just the same as anyone else and that they only want to be treated fairly and given rights to their land.
I used to listen to these books as my mother read them.
My mother got them as a child they kept their gifts in the attic inside their pillow case.
My mother snuck up into the attic every night to read her books she had not received yet.
Her daughter also grew on her mothers passion for writing and started writing books also of her childhood.I was able to go too a museum of Lauras life was spent.
I was able to learn the skills of the early settelers and make things like maple syrup.
My husband found this collection in a used book store and bought it for me as a Christmas gift.
He knew how much I loved these books, and that I had this same collection as a child (my mom gave me this same set when I was 9 or 10).
The day to day life of the Ingalls family, their struggles, and triumphs, brought me back to being a little girl in love with these books.
The saddest part however, was, that aside from the first book, Little House in the Big Woods, NONE of them had been read.
I finished this serial a long time ago when I was in the elementary school!Back then, I didn't really care if the plot or writings were good or not.
I do remember the translation were bit confusing.This is part of my childhood, a very personal one for me.
Laura Ingalls accompanied me through some hard times and good times when I was a kid.
I should thank Laura for the beautiful & heartwarming stories.
And thank you for being my childhood memory.
This isn't five stars for Laura's (or Rose's?) writing style.
This isn't five stars for the page-turning, blood-pumping excitement here, nor for the complex plot, as this series has neither of those things.
This isn't five stars for current popularity.
This isn't five stars for the impact these books have on my current life.
This is five stars for a time gone by: Laura's childhood, and mine.
Whenever I re-read any of these books, I get a funny little nostalgic ache, and for that, I owe this series every one of those five stars.
I suddenly got a hankering to re-read the Little House books after moving into my own house that was built around the same time Ingalls-Wilder and her family were beginning their travels.
My adult eyes were able to appreciate much more about the stories (i.e. rich details of pioneer life intermingled with true prejudice against American Indians).
The educator and pedagogue in me also deeply appreciates Ingalls-Wilder's lived perspectives on what turn-of-the-century education was all about.
Each of these books offers something different, but I think my favorite is "Little Town on the Prairie" in which you can literally watch the town of DeSmet, South Dakota, rise up from the ground.
I started reading this set to my school kids. We are on the second book. These books are timeless and the kids love them. When I pulled out Little House in the Big Woods and told them it was our next storytime book, I got waving hands and big smiles. They said things like, "I love those books," and "Those are my favorite books."
The first book and a couple after were read aloud to my class in third grade by my wonderful teacher, Miss Genevieve Emrich. Truly a childhood classic, even though I have read a lot of criticism of the series in my years teaching children's literature. At the time, it was magical.
These books were the best i ever read! LOVE THEM!!! they are awesome!
I haven't read this series in decades, and yet I still remember so much. I should do a reread over the summer.
Sweet and ideal, but shockingly real in some ways.
Build a log cabin, fashion furniture from trees, dig a well, construct a fish trap with scraps of wood, twist hay into sticks for burning, follow the clothesline to the stable to feed the livestock during a blizzard, cross a roaring creek, outsmart a pack of wolves, survive for three days in a snow bank during a blizzard, play the fiddle like a choke cherry tree quivering in the wind, melt lead to make bullets, kill animals to feed his family, build the rocking chair of all rocking chairs for Ma, win the town spelling bee, trap and skin animals, plow a wheat field, plow a corn field, save the house from a prairie fire.
I read this series at least twice, maybe three times, growing up. I need to find the whole set for myself now. :)
The Ingalls girls were far better educated with or without a high school diploma than I am with a high school diploma, knowing the history of the US and of the explorations that lead to the founding of the US very well, being able to diagram sentences, having memorized the entire Declaration of Independence, and having memorized the entire book of Psalms among other Bible verses.I identified with Laura in her love of the outdoors, in her playful spirit, in her love of flowers, in her love of faith and family, and in her determined attitude to achieve goals.I find myself different than her in my handling of life's difficulties, not being as courageous and thankful as her and wanting to become courageous and thankful.
Words cannot express how much I love these beautiful books. Not only are they fun, easy to read books with a historical fiction aspect, but they have a great personal connection to me. My dad would read these to us children--my brother and I perched on either arm of "the big black chair" (his leather recliner) and my baby sister on his lap. He read us the whole series, one chapter or two at a time, every night. I'll never forget the my Dad reading us the lyrics to the songs...What a wonderful tradition.
I read the American Heritage set and realize my opinion was highly maligned based on my opinion of the television series of the 1970's.
I don't think I would dare put this series in the hands of a kid just because they could read it.
There is some serious conversations to be had about the religious heritage of this country and the evolution of gender relations and economics and climate change and fossil fuels and race relations and ecology.....ooh boy.
I highly recommend the books - these are the stories that frame our American culture.
I've also read other Wilder books, as well as those by her daughter, Rose.
Love them all!From Wikipedia: Little House in the Big Woods (1932) Farmer Boy (1933) - about her husband's childhood on a farm in New York Little House on the Prairie (1935) On the Banks of Plum Creek (1937), a Newbery Honor book By the Shores of Silver Lake (1939), a Newbery Honor book The Long Winter (1940), a Newbery Honor book Little Town on the Prairie (1941), a Newbery Honor book These Happy Golden Years (1943), a Newbery Honor book On the Way Home (1962, published posthumously) - a diary of the Wilders' move from de Smet to Mansfield, Missouri, edited and added to by Rose Wilder Lane.
