https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4413801-pigeons-from-hell
Can they survive the darkness that dwells within the Blassenville house?From the creator of Conan comes this creepy haunted house story.
It tosses the usual horror formula out the window, going for quick shocks rather than building suspense.
However...Much like H.P. Lovecraft's, I find REH's dialogue to be pretty wooden.
Also, I thought some of the characters' actions and thought processes to be pretty illogical.Since I don't want the review to be longer than the short story, that's about all I have to say.
Pigeons from Hell is fun in a pulp horror sort of way but it's in no way Howard's best work.
Pigeons From Hell by Robert E.
Howard This short story was a blast!
It's been recommended to me many times and I've always been too busy to work it in.
Being on the front edge of a reading slump, and usually having good luck with short stories to get me out of it, I decided to finally read this classic.
It's short, sweet and scary.
What more could you want?
Highly recommended!
Edited to add: Here's a link to get the story free and legally: http://www.feedbooks.com/book/1793/pi...
Description: This 1938 spell-binding story is one of his best. In 1983, Stephen King, wrote that he considered Pigeons from Hell to be "one of the finest horror stories of our century." With a decaying Southern family, a gruesome murder, a strange sort of "undead" creature, and, of course, evil pigeons, it makes for a story that will send a chill down your backbone. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=68w8h...My original encounter
A Southern Gothic short story about voodoo and revenge. It was creepy and kept me in suspense from beginning to end!
Absolutely phenomenal read from beginning to end! I vaguely remember reading this before in an anthology, but on its own, it is definitely a five-star read.Highest recommendation!
Man what can be said, I definitely have a thing for insane geniuses, and he fits the bill to a T.My personal favorite of his stories and one of the single scariest things I've ever read.
Modern readers might be made uncomfortable, by some of the books racial undertones, but this is more simple naivette, rather then the intentional virulent racism of say HP Lovecraft.
And like The Naked Prey it's racial politics are more complex then they originally appear.
With Howard more or less giving his thumbs up to slaves not merely uprising against and killing their masters, but going the extra mile and damning their immortal souls as well.
The perfect horror short story. An old haunted house, gore & blood, suspense, voodoo & witchcraft, revenge! This had everything. I loved it.I need to read more of Robert E. Howard's horror stories!
Review from BadelyngeFirst published in 1938 not long after R.E.Howard's suicide, Pigeons from Hell is a Gothic Horror tale set in the deep south of the USA.
Two friends decide to spend the night in an abandoned old plantation house.
It certainly succeeds.
The rest of the story's fear is generated by apprehension about returning to the old deserted house that has already demonstrated its terrors.
It also features one of Howard's recurring characters Kirby Buckner.
If I was assembling a reading list to use for developing a horror writing style I'd certainly think about including this one.
Typical Robert E, Howard fare, by which I mean excellent story-telling and in a straight-forward, no-nonsense style!The title story of this collection is a very effective "haunted house" horror story - very creepy.
Funnily enough, I was listening to the Pretenders' song, Back on the Chain Gang last night and realised that this story is most likely the source of a lyric that has always puzzled me: Got in the house like a pigeon from Hell: surely that phrase couldn't have occurred to two people independently!
How could I resist a title like "Pigeons from Hell"? Obviously, I couldn't. Turns out this is a satisfyingly creepy tale from the heyday of pulp fiction.
Introduction (Pigeons from Hell) • essay by Glenn LordPigeons from Hell • (1938) The Gods of Bal-Sag
I didn't know anything about Stephan King's positive comment on the story until after I read this my second time around, but at least I know now that King has good taste in horror books.
If you want a story that involves a dilapidated Southern farm, a gory axe murder by a female zombie and a creepy atmosphere, you'll like this book.
I made it sound disgusting but it's just down right creepy.Robert E.
Howard inspired H.P Lovecraft.
I can similarities in their writing except Howard isn't as surreal and bizarre as Lovecraft's prose.
Can't wait to read more spooky stories!
Fantastic 30's horror short! Sometimes you are amazed by how "little" it takes. Chilling, classic and fun. Don't know how it is that I never heard about this before? Highly recommended!
Great short horror story. Creepy and enthralling from beginning to end, with a nice twist.
The best and most chilling horror story ever and the greatest thing Howard ever wrote. Also made a great episode of THRILLER.
Sie erzählt die Geschichte zweier Schulfreunde aus Neuengland, die nach ihrem Schulabschluss mit dem Auto der Eltern eine Rundreise durch den Süden USA machen wollen.
Griswell wacht nachts auf und sieht, wie sein Freund Branner die staubige, alte Treppe in den ersten Stock hinaufsteigt.
Der Autor Robert Ervin Howard dürfte den meisten wohl am besten als Schöpfer von Conan dem Barbaren bekannt sein.
Obwohl ich mit dem Sprecher von Griswell ein wenig meine Probleme hatte, gewöhnt man sich doch bald an ihn, auch wenn ich denke, dass er nicht ganz dem Titania Sprecherstandard entspricht.Auch diese Geschichte ist ein in sich abgeschlossener Klassiker der Horror Literatur, der außerhalb und ohne Kenntnis der anderen Episoden der Serie gehört werden kann.
But you'll never hear me complain about a Jeff Jones cover.This is a collection of horror and sword & sorcery, along with a couple western tales with a Serling-esque twist.
But the particular selection of stories does not give the reader a feeling of variety.I'll start with the good.
The other story I really liked was "The Thing on the Roof", a perhaps familiar tale of a man who has taken something that doesn't belong to him from an ancient tomb.
But he's not as good.Despite my lukewarm reaction to this collection, I do plan to explore more of Howard's work, while hoping for more of the caliber of "Pigeons From Hell."
But we get introduced to a whole new form of monster, the zuvembie.From the story:"A zuvembie is no longer human.
It commands the natural demons – owls, bats, snakes and werewolves, and can fetch darkness to blot out a little light.
Its pleasure lies in the slaughter of human beings.”The author does a good job of creating a creepy setting and making you feel what Griswell felt.
Definitely a chilling read worth your time.One warning: There is some pretty heavy racism.
The story takes place in the south in the 1930's, so it's not unexpected, but it was still a little much for me.
Robert E.
Howard is my all time favorite writer, but for many years much of his work was heavily edited.
This is another of the heavily edited collections of Robert E.
Howard's stories.
I am a purist when it comes to a writers works.
I know some of these stories are no longer PC but they should be read as Howard wrote them and understood that he wrote in another time period.
Don't read this book unless you just can't find any others of Howard's unedited books to read.
Message me if you need a list of what is good from this awesome fantasy and action writer.
Howard fan since I discovered his work in my boyhood days (40 years ago- yikes!), but some how I never ran across this story or much else he wrote as horror.
Surprisingly, I became aware of this one via comments by Stephen King of all things.
So I took one master writer's comments and praise and tracked down this story.
It is easy to see why this is considered so well by so many and as I study the genre's roots i can also see its contribution to later writers (like King).
I consider this a must read for fans and/or students of horror and writing.
Howard was a much better horror writer than I'd realized. I generally think of him as a fantasy writer who also wrote Westerns, but he was way more versatile than that. This stands up against anything else that was being written in the horror genre at the time. It doesn't have the insane grandeur of Lovecraft's wilder material, but it has the eerie terror of a good haunted house story. It's just a shame the title makes it sound so silly.
Wow! One of the best pulp/horror stories I have EVER read. Nice twisty ending. I'm going to pick up Howard's entire horror collection. ps. I picked this up as a free e-book on the internet. Dinosaurs have nothing to with the story as the illustration above implies. Just axe hatchets, snakes, wolves, staircases, whistling entities, voodoo and Pigeons (from hell)!
I learned that in addition to creating Conan, Howard is also known for his horror. This is the best $3 I've spent at Audible (and, well, the only $3 I've spent at Audible). Horror is just better when it's listened to, but perhaps I shouldn't have listened to it in the middle of the night when I'm the only one awake. That beginning was creepy.
'Pigeons From Hell' was written about 1934. I read this excellent story many years ago. I reread it again today. It remains a classic piece of terror. It is a moody piece of horror and stimulates our fears of the unknown.
Stephen King recommended book as noted in Chapter 8 of Berkley's 1983 paperback edition of Danse Macabre.
A collection of Robert E. Howard's best horror stories.
(hide spoiler)]Overall, across all chapters the thing I liked the most is how well was panic of main character portrayed, it was very believable and organic.
(view spoiler)[Whole Blassenville clan is apparently spending eternity in hell and only coming back as pigeons, and our main characters needed to ask old black man for help (because quote: they were "up against something that takes more than white man's sense") and accidentally caused his demise by that.
While the black characters in Howard's stories are treated pretty well as characters, Howard does use tropes that are currently considered racist, in this story specifically we have the "magical negro".
I don't consider Howard to have necessarily been a racist, but he certainly had a white-man-of-the-south mindset in this story when he talks about "darky" magic.Interestingly the word "Zuvembie" was coined by Howard for this story, and both Marvel and DC comics used it in the 70's to circumvent the Comics Code Authority's strictures against using monster horror terms like "vampire, zombie, etc etc".
Awesomely written classic Southern Gothic horror short story.
This was a fantastic and fun short little read.
Everyone in this story is an archetype of a familiar character: the strong Sheriff who is afraid but proceeds in the face of danger, the wise old black man, the New Englander come down to the south only to find that it's not what he thought it was, etc.
But despite the cliches, the story is still super fun and there are a few parts that had me shivering in anticipation of what something would jump out of the dark corners and reveal itself in its bloodthirsty glory.
I super recommend this to anyone, but especially anyone who is a fan of the classic horror stories.
Seriously, this story scared me! Had to sleep with the light on since I live in a turn-of-the-century house. The title is misleading, but I think Howard did that on purpose. On the heels of reading his "Graveyard Rats" story, I naturally assumed it was going to be about the flocks of pigeons that hang around the old house, or a Hitchcock "The Birds" type of scenario. Nope! I just had no idea what was about to hit me. Once I recover from the creeps, I'll go back a re-read it to get the poetic details I missed.
