https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/116223.Barefoot_Gen_Volume_One
Barefoot Gen is his retelling of his own harrowing experiences living through atomic hell and its aftermath.This towering work, which took Nakazawa about 20 years to complete, has been called the Manga Maus, and in fact, this edition comes with a forward/testimonial written by Art Spiegelman himself.
Where Spiegelman relieves tension by releasing readers into the present day and uses visual metaphor (dogs, cats, mice) as a distancing technique, Nakazawa delivers an unrelenting, first person narrative in more or less realistic fashion.And (save for a 91-page digressive short story about baseball fandom at the start of Volume 8, which is a bit of a head-scratcher), it is unrelenting.
I now realize what a profoundly anti-war statement it was, leaving these books within the grasp of 12-year-olds--these are graphic novels about the bombing of Hiroshima, from the perspective of a young civilian boy who loses almost his entire family.The books juxtapose cartoons and the trivialities of youth with the singularly gruesome, nightmarish truths of using nuclear weapons on a heavily populated, largely civilian city.
Reading it at that age goes a long way to molding your opinion of nuclear weapons and exposes the idiocy of trying to justify their use under any circumstances or in any context.

He says he imagined his alter ego standing atop a roof, barefoot, raising his voice loud and clear, over and against the destruction his dear city of 4, 00, 000 residents was subjected to.The characters in Barefoot Gen have been inspired by the lives of the people in the life of Nakazawa and the ones around him.
Graphic novels bear this eerie ability to assist your imagination exactly to that level, where it sets in motion its own series.
Just the exact right amount.
I clenched my fists and stretched my fingers and toes, as if it was here, in front of me, right now.
انها ليست قصة من وحي الخيال بل هي الواقع الذي يُعاش يومياً أمام أعيننا وفي الشاشات وما عادت تهتز جفوننا، ألا تكفي مرارة العيش وحدها في هذا العالم السيء؟ هل يحتاج الأبرياء أن يذوقوا مرارة الأثم وغصة الحروب في الحلوق والأبدان. أن يعيش القاتل الفاجر متنعماً كأن شيئاً لم يحدث!!كيجي ناكازاو رسام المانجا يحكي قصته وقصة الآلاف غيره فحينما كان في السادسة من عمره ألقيت فوق رؤوسهم أول قنبلة ذرية في تاريخ 6 أغسطس 1945 والتي أفقدته عائلته بإكملها وقد أثرت به لدرجة أن كتب عن أثارها النفسية حتى توفي في عام 2012.ويعد هذا المانجا الأولى من أصل عشرة أجزاء.
Life in Hiroshima in the weeks leading up to the atomic bomb is depicted by cartoonist, Keiji Nakazawa.
The book climaxes with the bomb where Gen’s family experience follows that of the Nakazawa family as the author writes in his forwarding note.The portrait shows a hard life in cruel situation.
At school, love for the emperor is taught.Nalazawa shows how life was no better outside of Hiroshima, in the countryside or in the military itself.
The portrait of the indoctrination of the kamikaze pilots is chilling.This is a powerful book.
Barefoot Gen is a graphic novel that tells the events of the bombing of Hiroshima. The story is very, very graphic and tells the events in a very emotional story. I'm surprised how deep this story goes on explain the tragedy of the aftermath of Little Boy.
Soon after I picked up Barefoot Gen, the 9.0 earthquake and massive tsunami hit Japan, and one of the nuclear power plants was damaged and began to vent radioactivity.
Reading Nakazawa's Barefoot Gen during the current catastrophe underscored Japan's love-hate relationship with nuclear power.
No country's consciousness could be unchanged by the brutality of WWII (both by Japan and to Japan.) But being the first victims of nuclear war had a profound impact on the Japanese identity.Barefoot Gen is a graphic illustration of daily life toward the end of the war.
Gen and his siblings were subject to a hundred small cruelties by other kids, and also by teachers and authority figures.
This is story one family in Hiroshima during war.
Father is animilitarist, he is sent briefly into prison and all family suffer because it.
At the end, Gen gives great battleship (toy) to Shinji and promise that other day after school they will play wit it.
But other day his father, Eiko and Shinji are burned alive to the death in the ruins of Hiroshima (burried there)....
Gen gives Shinji battleship into his arms during his dying...
Mother wants to die, too, but Gen saves her (his father begs him to do it) and she gives birth her younger daugher, Tomoko.
Let's be clear: WWII was awful, and the things that Japanese citizens went through were awful, and then having an atomic bomb dropped on them was also awful.
This is a very important story and book.My only issue was with the artwork, and it is on my end, not Nakazawa's.
The drawings were clear and the pacing was great.
The art, therefore, tended to draw me back out of the story, which subsequently made it harder to take seriously on the page.But!
If nothing else, you should find the story arresting and a bit haunting.
Especially near the end.
1) Deutsche Rezension2) English Review 1) Deutsche Rezension Dieser Manga war irgendwie enttäuschend für mich.Ich war schon nicht sicher, ob die Einführung von Art Spiegelmann nötig war, ich meine, es ist klar, welche Art von Geschichte das ist, also warum das Thema angehen, dass viele in Deutschland Comics nur als etwas für Kinder sehen? Alle die diesen Band in die Hand nehmen, können aufgrund des Titels sehen worum es geht. Ich denke auch, dass die Einführung nicht hier drin sein sollte, schli
Es kommt nicht zu oft vor, aber es geschieht oft genug um die Geschichte für mich zu stören.Und leider, als die Bombe über der Stadt abgeworfen wird, bekommen wir ständig gesagt was wir sehen und bei mir funktioniert das nicht.(view spoiler)[ Warum musste Gen zu sich selber sagen dass alles dunkel ist?
I don’t know what it is – maybe just some fascination or dread even (which I will never admit) – the fact that we know how it ended and yet we want to know more about it – the horror of it all, but more than that it is the human stories that come out of it, with every new read on the bombings.
His mother and he escape and “Barefoot Gen” is the story of that survival, as they witness the horror of war and the bombing.
Komik ini terasa mengenaskan sekaligus menggugah karena dengan jujur dan berani mengakui, betapa suatu 'negara' (atau kelompok tertentu, entah karena punya duit atau kekuasaan lainnya) dapat menipu dan mencuci otak orang-orangnya sendiri agar bersemangat dalam kebodohan.Itu saja... (untuk jilid 1 dulu ^^)
أول مانجا ليا، و مبسوط جدا إن أول تجربة تكون بالجمال ده -عارف إنه مش أنسب وصف لكوميك بووك بيتكلم عن قنبلة هيروشيما يكون الجمال- و خلتني متحمس أكمل باقي السلسلة
He is very round as a character which in my opinion makes it a better read.The art style in this novel is very classic Japanese style.
The black and white with very symbolic imagery really helps keep focus on the content rather than the art in my opinion.
No offense if you love color.Overall, I did really enjoy this story, I learned a lot more about the culture for WWII Japanese that any text could give me, It was also a very cute story to read in general.
A masterpiece. Simple as that.
It was as good as it was told, this is one of the manga masterpieces everyone knows, it deserves reckoning. Eerily realistic and frank, one of the best comics I've ever read.
Die Zeichnungen mögen überholt und oldschool wirken, aber die Story und deren Darstellung haben es in sich und lassen einen, auch nach 100facher Erzählung der Ereignisse, noch Gänsehaut bekommen.
الترجمة جميلة جدا، انتهيت بقعدة واحدة، انا بحب المانجا والقصص المصورة عامة
Comic books aren't considered graphic novels, so where is the line drawn?
Screw it, I hate lines anyway.Barefoot Gen is a comic-style book-thingy that tells a complete story.
True, the comic couldn't capture the destruction, the darkness, the stench, but it really did quite a fine job introducing images that burn into the reader's mind, much more than I imagined was possible anyway.Barefoot Gen (which refers to the first book in the series and not the series itself from this point forward) is an introduction to the Nakaoka family.
From Amazon: 'This harrowing story of Hiroshima was one of the original Japanese manga series.
New and unabridged, this is an all-new translation of the author's first-person experiences of Hiroshima and its aftermath, is a reminder of the suffering war brings to innocent people.
Volume one of this ten-part series details the events leading up to and immediately following the atomic bombing of Hiroshima.'I read this book for a Japanese lit/culture class, and it was the first time I had studied the Pacific War (the Pacific Campaign of WWII) from a Japanese perspective.
From the book blurb: Barefoot Gen is the powerful, tragic, autobiographical story of the bombing of Hiroshima and its aftermath, seen through the eyes of the artist as a young boy growing up in Japan.
Let me start by saying that I am not a fan of manga style comics, so have steered away from that whole section of graphic novels.
I did not love the graphics (manga style as mentioned above), and knew very little of what life was like for the average family in Japan during World War 2.
The first volume in this series starts in April 1945, and covers the last months of the war.
this book is not so much an indictment of the bomb, or America's decision to drop it on civilian populations.
that would be nothing new, as reams have already been written about it, and by now, we all know that the atom bomb is bad, right?
instead, the book is an exploration of civilian society in wartime japan, and how a misplaced sense of patriotism and unquestioning obedience of authority (is anyone else thinking of the folks who are writing in to newspapers demanding that TADA and POTA be reimposed?) can place a society on a suicide course.the book is part autobiographical, and to the foreign reader, also serves as an insight into the japanese family -- the measures gen's father, the doggedly pacifist hero of the book, takes to discipline his errant children would put a boot camp drill sergeant to shame.
This first volume deals with the events leading up to the bomb drop and what life was like for the average Japanese during World War II.
They were seen as anti-patriotic in this nation of brain-washed conformity.I can see how the art would be a little off-putting to a Western eye.
It can be difficult to know where a character is crying in fear or pain since the characters often look like they're sweating profusely, and the faces look much more Western in aspect than one would expect from a Japanese graphic novel.
This is a book that everyone should read to prevent another disaster like Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
As expected, this was incredibly hard to read and had me in tears at multiple points.
Not only does it deal with the tragedy of the nuclear bomb, it also shows the life of an ordinary Japanese family in times of war.
This would have been harrowing to read about had it been fiction, but this being the author's own life story made it all the more powerful.
Certainly would recommend this one, it's absolutely heartbreaking but also shows us how lucky we are to get to live in a time and place of peace, not war.
أول مانجا أقراها، وهي الجزء الأول من 10 أجزاء، صدر منها حتى الآن 4 أجزاء بس، ده للتوثيق.الجزء الأول بيورينا جزء من حياة أسرة يابانية قبل إلقاء القنبلة الذرية بوقت قصير، الأسرة فقيرة والأب مناهض للحرب فيتهموه بخيانة الوطن، بنشوف معاهم قرف الحرب من موت وفقر ومجاعة، والجزء بينتهي بإن هيروشيما اتضربت بالقنبلة.لعن الله أمريكا على اليابان على الناس اللي بتستغل الفقر والجهل وبتقيم الحروب وتسيب المواطنين هم اللي يدفعوا تمنها.ملحوظة، حلوة أوي للي يحب يقراها، هي بالتأكيد مش طفولية، بس متفهمة إن ناس كتير مش بتحب النوع ده من الأدب.
Barefoot Gen reels you in to the story of a family during war time. Stories of kids getting in trouble, rationing, air raids, questions of duty, and family episodes based on the author’s life get you to care about Gen’s family. Then, in a split second, by no fault of their own, their world is ripped apart— the atomic bomb bringing annihilation and true hell on Earth. Barefoot Gen’s message of the evils of war hit me harder than other survivor accounts and even trips to Hiroshima and Nagasaki. I could not help but sob upon finishing this first volume.
Savaş karşıtı eserlerin en önemlilerinden olabilir bu çizgi roman. Saf gerçeklikle savaşın fakirleşen halk üzerindeki psikolojik etkisi anlatılmak isteneni eksiksiz bir şekilde okuyucuya aktarmış. Sansüre gidilmeden en vahşet dolu anlar gösterilerek okuyucuyu psikolojik çöküntüye uğratan bu çizgi romanı okuyan bir insanın anti-militer bir karakter kazanmadan bu kitabı bitireceğini sanmıyorum. Tamamiyle mükemmel.
Gia đình bé Gen có tư tưởng hoài nghi vào mục đích tham gia thế chiến của Nhật hoàng và chính quyền, thế nên họ bị coi là những phần tử phản quốc.
Nhật Bản với lòng tự tôn dân tộc cao, quyết k đầu hàng, cho dù Đức đã ngã từ tháng 5, người dân cắn răng chịu đói, chịu khổ nuôi chiến tranh, quân đội thì cố quá và thành ra quá cố là điều hiển nhiên.
Mỹ thả quả đầu vào Hiroshima vào tháng 8, là quê hương của Gen và cướp đi mạng sống hàng trăm ngàn người.
نقل تمام روزمرگیها از زبان یک خانوادهی کاملا معمولی قبل از فرود LITTLE BOY.یک گرافیک نوول عالی که حتی امروز مناسبتر از پیشه.داستان ظالم و مردم عادی. پادشاه ( رهبری) که خدایی میکنه. بتسازی از جنگ و وطنپرستی. نژادپرستی، بیعدالتی، زندان و ...من فقط قسمت اول رو تا اینجا خوندم، اما مطمئنن ۵؟ تای بقیه رو هم خواهم خواند.
نقل تمام روزمرگی‌ها از زبان یک خانواده‌ی کاملا معمولی قبل از فرود LITTLE BOY.یک گرافیک نوول عالی که حتی امروز مناسب‌تر از پیشه.داستان ظالم و مردم عادی. پادشاه ( رهبری) که خدایی میکنه. بت‌سازی از جنگ و وطن‌پرستی. نژادپرستی، بی‌عدالتی، زندان و ...من فقط قسمت اول رو تا اینجا خوندم، اما مطمئنن ۵؟ تای بقیه رو هم خواهم خواند.
