https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/276945.Eloise_at_Christmastime
Read during my holiday 24-hour readathon, #readathonbyzoe! Watch the vlog here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KcLPp...
Christmas comes to the Plaza Hotel, and that pint-sized terror Eloise is in the thick of things in this third picture-book adventure, bringing her own inimitable style to the seasonal celebration.
When it comes to being jolly, Eloise is in top form...Originally published in 1958, out of print for many years, and then reprinted in 1999 with new cover-art by Hilary Knight, Eloise at Christmastime differs from its two predecessors, both in length - it has considerably less text than either 
(somehow, what amused me in the first book palled in the second), I found this one fairly engaging.
This book was more of the same ... or maybe I'm just not in the mood for Eloise.I felt terribly sorry for this abandoned child who essentially doesn't have parents. Then, to boot, she's trapped in an apartment in NYC!The best part of the book: the map of Eloise's trek down the halls and through the rooms.
As Hilary Knight's illustrations are excellent that would be unfair although Kay Thompson's text is at times rather wishy-washy and banal and at other times quite amusing.The story begins quite promisingly on Christmas Eve with a blizzard raging outside and Eloise lounging in front of a blazing log fire with her Nanny, Skipperdee her turtle and Weenie her dog at The Plaza.
So Nanny takes her by the ankles and carries her off to bed where she and Weenie immediately flake out because 'some of us were rawther tired'.Eloise dreams of plum pudding with extra cream, reindeers with sunglasses skating on the stars and Santa chuckling and saying 'Dash on to The Plaza my lovely boys.
5.0 out of 5 stars!Eloïse giving everyone presents but then having a page talking about if she didn’t get anything it would be ok made me so sad even though I knew she’d get presents! I just love Eloise so much!!
In all of the Eloise books, the precocious 6-year-old's mother is not with her young daughter.
Eloise is left in the care of Nanny.
It seems especially sad that this is true at Christmastime.But I think this lies at the heart of who this spunky little girl is...she is not a naughty child, she is a parent-less one, and as such is free-spirited.
That Eloise's efforts at bringing holiday cheer are not exactly appreciated by her audience, is lost on the little girl in her unbridled enthusiasm for the holiday.
Eloise at Christmastime is a classic which still holds up even in today's digital modernity. It captures not only all the glitz and glamour that kids love about the holidays, but also displays all the many friends who Eloise cares about and the importance of sharing Christmastime with your companions.
Another fairly typical Eloise book. It's out of season right now, but our girls really loved it anyway. This one was pretty nonsensical, but still has amazing, busy illustrations as do all the other Eloise books.
My fandom is not great enough to bestir me to care much one way or the other.
"Sometimes there is so much to do that I get sort of a headache around the sides and partially under it." I adore Eloise, especially at christmastime!
I thought the rhyming was a bit awkward, but overall it was rawther charming.
I LOVE the Eloise books. It was a real pleasure to read it to my grandson. He was so excited to tell me that he'd ridden in a carriage in Central Park, just like Eloise!
The Eloise series is fun for all young girls and adding a Christmas edition gives little girls everywhere to enjoy these sweet stories at anytime throughout the year.
This story also teaches students that giving gifts is just as joyful as receiving them.
She also says "rather" a lot but says it like "rawther" for dramatic effect however this is teaching kids how to spell it incorrectly which could cause a habit but I think students will be reading this with an adult so the adult can explain the authors creativity.
I LOVE the movie Eloise at Christmastime, so I was naturally very excited to read the book. They're not at all the same, but the spirit holds true. I adore Eloise's spunk, honesty, and vibrancy, and reading about her is such a joy!
My son LOVES the Eloise books, including this one, but I felt it lacked the charm of the original three.
Amazing quick read!
A favorite from my childhood that my kid now loves. Read out loud in your fanciest voice.
Convoluted Christmas cheer by Eloise!
Not so keen on all the Eloise story lines but I am in awe of the illustrations. Rating more for the images than the character's quirks.
Who doesn’t love Eloise and Christmas! Adorable for any season in my eyes
I love it
This was so cute and hilarious. I have never read any of Eloise's books or watched the show,but this story was absolutely adorable.
Aw Eloise so cuuute!
* MULTIPLE *
For the third year in a row, Kay Thompson made the top ten bestseller list with an Eloise book, coming in at #6 in 1958.
In Christmastime, Eloise becomes nothing more than a most annoyingly hyperactive child.
The charm and humor of the earlier books is lost in a manic flurry of Christmas cliche.
Hilary Knight's drawings are still wonderful and Eloise's Christmas gift list almost saves it, but I finished the book feeling like someone had brought their ill-mannered, out of control child to my house and stayed too long.
While I was doing my picture soak, I came across this book and decided to pick it up because I remember seeing a show on TV around Christmas time with a little girl name Eloise.
I think that there is a little much going on, and that it is better viewed as a film.
I did like the illustrations though and the fact that all the pictures were done in the colors black, white, and pink.
The illustrations were my favorite part of this book.
Again, it was ok to view as a book, but not something that I am eager to share with my classroom.
I don't know anything about Eloise but my child had a hard time following the story in this book and I had a hard time reading it. It rhymed in some parts but not others and it was really long.Excerpt from book:Once there was this little childYou know her I believeHere's who she is me ELOISEAnd it is Christmas EveIt's Christmas Evewith a blizzard outsideAnd four below zeroor moreBut inside the Plazawe're cozy and warmin our roomson the tippy top floorWe're Skipperdee who is my turtleand Weenie who is my dogNanny my mostly companionand MEand the blazingYuletide log
"Eloise at Christmastime" is my absolute favorite holiday movie and I was so excited to pick up the book and read it.
The message about a happy little girl who is joyful at Christmastime even when her mother is not present, is a great message for all little children to hear.
It was hard to follow at first, but after thinking about Eloise in the movie, I could follow that this was a little girl who was "all over the place" and it was a little easier to understand.
Overall, great book, one of my favorites!
i don't know why, but in this eloise book, i found myself frowning and a bit in tears.i guess, it's because it's christmas time and absolutely have to be spent with your mum.
and here is eloise in The Plaza, of course she is with her 'family' of nanny who is her absolutely darling best friend in the whole wide world, sire weenie, skipperdee the turtle, emily the pigeon and of course the whole crew of The Plaza...and of course spending christmas in The Plaza is rawther fabulously trinkles and sklinkles of glee..
but it's rawther sad for a girl who is 6 to spend christmas away from her mummy ..
4) Some of the pictures were quite lovely.Things I didn't like 1) The writing seemed like a lot of nonsense sentences and there wasn't really a story at all 2) Some of the art wasn't that great - and it varied a lot from page to page from great to eh 4) It was actually pretty boring.But I gave it 4 stars based almost solely on L's enjoyment of the book finally being able to be read.
