https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/148959.The_Broken_Vase
For years I've been periodically trying to read Rex Stout novels that are not about Nero Wolfe.
But I kept trying under the theory that anyone who can write books as great as many of those are must be decent at writing something else.
And the theory has paid off at last.The detective in this book is Tecumseh Fox, about whom I gather Stout wrote several other novels.
While he doesn't have the charm of Archie Goodwin or the brains of Nero Wolfe, he's not completely hopeless as a character, and now I will try to get hold of the other novels to see if this one's a fluke.
A great murder mystery.... but how can I figure out who the killer was when there were over a dozen suspects?
Disappointment turns to horror however when Tussah is found shot in his dressing room at the intermission, a suicide note on his table but no Stradivarius in sight.This is the second outing for Stout's short-lived Nero Wolfe alternative, Tecumseh Fox. A wise cracking ladies man in Bad For Business, he seems to have had a charisma bypass operation since then, becoming all business and no fun here, merely trudging through a muddled plot.
Certainly the weakest mystery by Stout I have yet to read in over a dozen goes, not even a fruitcake actress and a wandering vase (not the one in the title either, a second one!) can enliven a strangely dreary read for such an entertaining maestro.
****.This was an early work by Stout that featured Tecumseh Fox, another clever detective of Stout’s imagination.
He appears on the scene of an apparent suicide at Carnegie Hall as a friend of one of the cast of characters, and is ultimately hired to solve a separate murder.
This was his debut at the Hall, and he was playing a Stradivarius violin that was a gift to him from a group of his friends.
At intermission, Tusar went back to his dressing room and committed suicide by shooting himself in the head.
Thankfully, Stout ultimately found it.
Wore out page 30 of my edition going back to names that were only mentioned once or twice but Stout always tells a great story with a great wrap up at the end.
A good book is a good book!By the way, Stout was named Best Mystery Series of the Century in 2000 which was one of the reasons I sought him out to read.
The Broken Vase by Rex Stout is one of three Tecumseh Fox novels (and the third one I’ve read).
Tecumseh was certainly not the prototype for Nero Wolfe.
It should be obvious that I like Rex Stout.
In this story Tec investigates a suicide that is more than it seems.
A young violinist, who has been partially sponsored by Tec (and others) takes his life after an inexplicably bad performance.
Not surprisingly there is more to the suicide than first meets the eye and Tec is off on one of the more interesting murder investigations I have had the pleasure of reading.
Interesting mystery, I liked the set up of it. It would have been more interesting if every conversation didn't either end in, "I know why that happened." "Why?" "I'm not telling you." or someone loudly exclaiming some vital clue that they for some reason had not brought up earlier which thus ended the chapter. A bit hokey, but fun.
My first encounter with the Yankee equivalent of Agatha Christie. Out of the sizable number of his books, I managed to pick up one of the three that didn't feature his most famous character, Nero Wolfe. Nevertheless, it was a taut mystery although not quite a great imaginative endeavor. It was short and quick and satisfying, but, as I would find out, Rex Stout is capable of more.
the mystery was fairly compelling, but I had such a difficult time hearing Nero Wolf's or Archie's 'voice' coming from other characters. I did enjoy the story, but feel much more at home with a Nero Wolf mystery.
Once I got past the first three chapters the I was able to follow the story, and the rest of the book was better.
An adequately entertaining mystery, but the Tecumseh Fox character isn't anywhere near as engaging as the duo of Nero Wolfe and Archie.
A somewhat aimless mystery, much like Double for Death, too much time to characters and suspects no one cares about, but the solution is clever and the police don't hog as many pages.
Rex Stout's alternate investigator, Tecumseh Fox, looks into the "suicide of a promising young violinst.
This was my first non-Nero Wolfe book by Stout, and I really enjoyed it. I look forward to more Tecumseh Fox!
This was my first non Nero Wolfe book by Rex Stout. I enjoyed his new detective, Tecumseh Fox. Definitely worth reading if you enjoy vintage crime you'll probably like this one.
An enjoyable story, and I like Tecumsah Fox as a detective. However, the (view spoiler)[title is a pure spoiler and completely gave away who the murderer was (hide spoiler)].
Vana aegne kriminull,mis lõpeb ootamatult aga erilist põnevust küll ei pakkunud
