https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/911579.Bread_and_Jam_for_Frances
Every single word is meticulously chosen, carefully placed on the page, like an artist painting a masterpiece.
It's a rich, lush, descriptive book that aches to be read aloud, not just in a sing-songy "I'm reading to kids" way, but in a poetic manner, like a bard or a poetry slammer.
I know, it seems silly, but think about the way Russell Hoban chose his words, placed on them page, purposefully slashing sentences in half to add to the strong, declarative tone.
Consider Albert's lunch, with Frances dismal bread and jam as a short, sad comparison.
Bread and Jam for Frances is filled with this kind of incredible, thoughtful, deliberate writing.
Even though I don't actually like most of the foods that comprise Frances' particular diet (barring bread and jam, of course), the book always made me really hungry anyway. Adventures in food are such a huge part of growing up, and no book I can presently recall understands, or represents with such joy, the endlessly aggravating, impossible to predict, and hilariously beautiful relationship that kids have with their lunch.
Frances does not like eggs and makes up a little song:I do not like the way you slide,I do not like your soft inside,I do not like you lots of waysAnd I could do for many days Without eggs.
The illustrations are wonderful, with Frances eating her toast and jam and staring with no small level of concern at her soft-boiled egg.
Frances is a picky eater and pretty soon she is turning down her string beans and all sorts of other things and eating bread and jam instead.
But her parents have a way of dealing with this and getting Frances to eat new things.
Frances has the calmest, cleverest parents ever.
A sweet children’s book with an underlying lesson - have too much of something and eventually you’ll get sick of it
I loved this book growing up. The moral of this story is "Be careful what you wish for." Frances only wanted to eat bread and jam every day. At first it was nice, but she got sick of it after a while. Seeing all the different things her family got to eat, and she only got bread and jam. And that spaghetti sure did look good.
I couldn't begin to tell you how many times I read this book.
I certainly never was read to as a child, but this is still the earliest book that I own.
And for that I'm thankful.I loved reading this again - there's so many warm and fuzzy memories caught up in the examination of a book you loved as a child, seen through the eyes of the adult.
The fact that an adult could put these feelings into words so beautifully is what makes this book, and this author, very special to me.
I cannot recommend these books enough.
She'd rather eat bread and jam than eggs.
However, Frances's preference for bread and jam extends beyond eggs to all other foods.
Her very wise parents decide to give Frances bread and jam for breakfast, lunch, snack, and dinner, until poor Frances cries at the dinner table and asks if she could please have some spaghetti with meatballs, like the rest of the family is eating.
There is a great scene where Mr. Hoban describes Frances's classmate, Albert, eating his delicious, balanced, varied and interesting lunch bite by bite, as Frances wistfully looks on over her bread and jam.
And I love the songs Frances sings to solidify her position on Jam sandwhiches "Jam for snack and jam for meals, I know how a jam jar jeels--FULL.....OF.....JAM"!The patient parents are the hero's in this book for allowing Frances to indulge in her dietary oddity without causing her a life long eating disorder by shoving diatribes and moral to the story down her throat.Funny how this can be pulled off when you're a good writer (unlike Dr. L).
Bread and Jam For Frances personifies a young female badger as a fussy eater who loves bread and jam.
The story itself is extremely realistic, as many children have refused to try new foods at one point in time.
This book can help teach children the importance of variety and trying new things as even their most beloved treat can become stale and boring.
While I thing the moral of the story is a good one, I believe the story could have been shortened quite a bit and still convey the same message as effectively.
Heavy on dialogue, the length and amount of words per page may cause a young reader to lose interest.
Perhaps better read out loud by a parent.
Story-wise, my children all loved it.
A story he could completely relate to about a child only wanting to eat their favorite things, it was a plot I could get into as well.
Be prepared your child might go the way of the parent in the book and try to get you to feed them their favorite food for every meal until he gets sick of it.
Not something I was willing to do for my 5 yr old picky eater, yet, we still all loved the book.
A wonderful book for anyone with a picky eater! Frances only wants to eat Bread and Jam. Her mother deals with it by only giving her bread and jam. Her family continue to eat delicious wonderful meals and help her to understand she has other options.A beautifully illustrated and gorgeous story!
This is one of my all-time favorites from when I was a kid! I adored Frances!
One of my favorite books as a child...I was so glad when my kiddo picked this one up at the library.
As long as I am occasionally throwing children's book reviews on here, it should be noted that the Frances books are maybe my favorite to read to Freddy.
I think "Bread and Jam" is my favorite, in part because of the insanely complicated lunches that the badgers bring to school (and because I remember that one vividly from my own childhood), but really you can't go wrong.
When Fred and I are at the library, I will frequently try to slip a Frances book into our pile of books to read just because I love them so much.
Recommend for Foundation and Key Stage 1. Great use of song and rhyme, accompanied by beautiful illustrations. This book could be a great resource in helping children (maybe fussy eaters) understand that sometimes trying new foods is exciting and sometimes having the same things can be fun. Could link well to considering what a healthy diet consists of.
Frances is a little girl badger who only wants to eat Jam and bread until her mother very lovingly teaches her a lesson that variety can be a good thing.
The next day when the bell rang for lunch, Albert said, "What do you have today?" "Well," said Frances, laying a paper doily on her desk and setting a tiny vase of violets in the middle of it, "let me see." She arranged her lunch on the doily.
And vanilla pudding with chocolate sprinkles and a spoon to eat it with." "That's a good lunch," said Albert.
I think eating is nice." "So do I," said Frances, and she made the lobster-salad sandwich, the celery, the carrot sticks, and the olives come out even.
This is the tale of a mother.
A loving mother, who does her very best to prepare delicious, healthy meals for an intransigent child who does not care that her mom is just trying to prevent her developing anemia, scurvy, or some other obsolete, nutrient-deficiency-caused illness.
That cute badger exterior conceals an iron will, and her mother quite sensibly caves.
I salute you, Frances' mother, for your passive-aggressive solution to this problem.
Inspired by you, I will be feeding my toddler only toast and peanut butter until he begs me for something, anything, else.
That's the moral of the story, right?
A fussy eater. I have one of those. Maybe two... sometimes three. So, even though this was part of of 1st grader's literature curriculum it was helpful in dealing with my four year old's food issues... especially eggs! How appropriate indeed! I may have to try the tactics employed here. ha!Some of the words were a bit more challenging for my 1st grader but she persevered and read what I asked her to read. It's longer so I don't expect her to read all of it but she is able to decode most words.
'I have a thermos bottle with cream of tomato soup,' she said. 'And a lobster-salad sandwich on thin slices of white bread. I have celery, carrot sticks, and black olives, and a little cardboard shaker of salt for the celery. And two plums and a tiny basket of cherries. And vanilla pudding with chocolate sprinkles and a spoon to eat it with.''That's a good lunch,' said Albert.I always wanted a little cardboard shaker of salt in my lunch. One of my very favorite books!
I chose this book because EW magazine aka MY FAVORITE MAGAZINE has selected this book as 50 books children need to read and decided to read it! Overall it was rather dull and not surprising.This is about Frances who only wants to eat bread and jam. So her parents used pretty much reverse psychology to make her eat regular food. Even if I was little and reading this I would not have been captivated by this story.
There isn't too much to say about this one. It's a cute story to read to kids who are very picky eaters. It helps them see that eating different things can actually be fun and delicious. I didn't really want to read this children's series before and this one book will satisfy my minimal curiosity for it. I now have a new recommendation for parents looking for a cute, fluffy story to read to their children.
An instant favorite. How much bread and jam can one badger eat? Turns out not as much as she thinks. Frances thinks all she wants and needs is bread and jam but when she sees the variety of food around her, her preference for bread and jam decreases as she starts to see value in trying new things. Great story for kids as sometimes they tend to be picky eaters.
This was one of my favorite books as a child and then my children enjoyed reading as well. Hoban created a delightful children's story that was both entertaining and with a moral. I'm not sure I have ever used the word "delightful" before in a review but here it applies, yes this was delightful and a good story for children and a fine book for adults to read to children.
I remember enjoying this book as a kid, so I thought I'd revisit it as a soon-to-be mom. While I like the message and Frances is extremely likable, the book is so text-heavy that I imagine most kids would lose interest about halfway through.
About picky eaters and really a model for parenting, this has been a favorite of mine for a long time - but not for those reasons! Such cute illustrations of little Frances the badger who is very fond of jam. I like the pace of it and it's gentle conclusion.
Wait, this is a BOOK?!? I only know the title from Switchblade Symphony's penultimate album: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bread_an...
love these books
So glad my nephews and nieces are enjoying the badger my siblings and I grew up with!What I am is tired of jam!
Frances learns to branch out from just her familiar favorites.
