https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3975774-evermore
It will be her ewniqueness that eventually draws the Perfect Hero to her as opposed to any of the usual elements such as: looks, hygiene, personality or determinable interest in the world outside their own arse.Please also remember that she probably should be a reader, preferably of Wuthering Heights or Romeo and Juliet and that she should consider everyone around her to have inferior intelligence despite the fact that her reading repertoire extends to only a couple of books.A noticeably absent family is necessary and a completely dead family makes for a better story because then she actually has a perceived reason to be a moody, antisocial, self-absorbed little bitch.
THE EVERMORE DRINKING GAME It looks like you’ve picked up the Evermore Drinking Game, for whichever reason (but if it’s because you have an interest in reading Evermore I strongly advise against it, for your sanity’s sake). However, if you’re still not convinced to  stay the hell away from this book , the Evermore Drinking Game is here to make your reading experience as enjoyable as possible (because trust me, you won’t find anything enjoyable in this book without it). The rules for the Evermor
It looks like you’ve picked up the Evermore Drinking Game, for whichever reason (but if it’s because you have an interest in reading Evermore I strongly advise against it, for your sanity’s sake).
, the Evermore Drinking Game is here to make your reading experience as enjoyable as possible (because trust me, you won’t find anything enjoyable in this book without it).
The rules for the Evermore Drinking Game are simple: when you read any of the instances mentioned below when reading Evermore, you take a swig of anything.
You’ve made it this far and finished the Evermore Drinking Game!
Of all the worst things, this is absolutelyThere will be spoilers in this review, but you know, who the fuck cares?I wasted my time reading this whole series, because it was basically for nothing.
Of course, Ever is all freaking out about it cause she thinks that if they don't fuck sooner or later Damen will leave her, since all hot guys are like that, aren't they?Throughout the rest of the books, all Ever wants is to get the antidote, but due to her making stupid choices in every book, it never works out.
In front of people.See, this book is basically the Mini Pop Kids of the YA paranormal romance genre.
If someone pursues you but you don't want to be pursued by them, it's 200% reasonable to tell them to go away, stop it, or leave you alone.I could wax on and on about the whole virgin/whore dichotomy that tears through this book like a bull seeing red but that would be a waste of time.
What about the mere fact that supposedly, everywhere she goes she sees these dead people walking around like they're at the fucking carnival?
See, this is the fucking problem with so many YA books like this one.
A transformation that isn't actually allowed in most educational institutions, since sunglasses and hoods are not allowed to be worn in most schools, and I would personally slap the shit out of Ever if she came to sit next to me with her music playing loud like that.
So, it's no wonder that nobody at her new school likes her except for her fellow 'outcasts'.
They're called Haven and Miles, but I like to refer to them as Goth Stereotype and Gay Stereotype.
There's also some lame drama in this book with Damen's ex-wife Audrina which comes across just like drama for the sake of drama.
No. Just no. Absolutely not. I could NOT continue this book. The only minute thing I found interesting was that the car accident managed to knock the dog's balls off somehow. Other than that, I couldn't stand any more. No no no no no. Hell fucking shit no.
Back when I read this book, I didn't know what snark was.
Now that I do and now that I remember everything that bothered me about this book, I shall write snark.
Yes, I shall.Mmmm....
snark....So let me explain what I thought I was reading with this excellent meme.
How Ever utterly reminded me of Bella Swan, I cannot explain in this review.
And how Damen reminded me of Edward Cullen, I cannot explain in this review.
How did Noel not see how absolutely dreadful her writing was?
Such a crappy review that revealed nothing about how the book was.
Having satisfied my curiosity about this popular YA series, I can safely scratch the rest of the books (and their author) off my TBR list forever.The book starts off OK - mind-reading, auras, family drama, but very swiftly becomes just another pathetic Twilight rip-off.
Well, you know the drill.The characters are flat, unrelatable, stupid, and acting out of character whenever it is convenient, the relationships are shallow, the style of narration is juvenile, the mythology is full of holes, the story itself is boring, unoriginal, unexciting, and full of clichés.
Putting this next to other mediocre Twilight rip-offs "Shiver" and "Hush, Hush."Reading challenge: #1 - E.
She loves him, she wants to barf at the sight of him.So she almost died and now she has psychic powers.
Which, by psychic powers, she means "being restricted to only wearing hoodies, acting like a total loon, constantly treating your friends like shit, going deaf on heavy metal, and generally being a lacking human being".
Throughout the whole book, I never did get why she kept thinking psychic powers=hoodies.Then we have Damen, with an E.
But he drinks weird red shit (which is never fully explained and being red, sparkly and keeping him immortal I can only assume is magical unicorn blood), screws with people's heads, is insanely fast and strong, is psychic, and down-right creepy.
I absolutely loved this book.
It is a bit of an easy read, but well worth it.
I felt as though the author had taken some of my favorite young adult books and blended them into one solid story.
This is basically a young adult romance novel with a supernatural twist.
It had some humor peppered throughout it, but it was mostly just sweet.
Damen was an interesting character, but he did irritate me with the Drina situation (I won't say more because I do not want to spoil it).
I completely recommend this book to anyone who enjoys a good YA supernatural romance.
Review to come!
I have heard a lot about this book- reviews ranging from "amazing" to a rip-off of Twilight, any way continuing with this tragic epic tale in which I have lost brain cells and I am warning you that what you read ahead is not for the easily offended as it does contain a lot of rage, incoherence and strong language: Anyway, like most typical, shitty YA novels- it starts off with a boring, emo girl who is a ~speshul snowflake (because we are severely lacking some of these in the YA genre, of course) angsting on about the curse of her powers!
I’m not surprised that I devoured this novel.
And honestly most of them were met, there were a few things that I would have loved to seen Noel elaborate on, but overall I was utterly and completely satisfied.
could that possibly mean she lasts forever.
I’m hoping to learn more about him in the rest of the series.
It’s actually one of the things I wished Noel had elaborated on a little bit more.
Too far fetched maybe, or just possibly just a lack of explanation.
I cannot wait to read the rest of the series!
I'm listening to this one.
She has a right to be in the beginning, but the time has passed for her to "wake" up.
I'm willing to keep listening.
The actress/reader is excellent and I'm thinking that I might not have lasted this long if I were reading the book...but that's a hard one to call :)Ugh - I did finish and it was a struggle - between the villian's monologing and Ever's flip floping and whining, I almost called it quits a number of times.
Needless to say, I won't be reading any more.
They are forced to sit next to each other in class (To any people who have read Twilight, I wonder where she got that from xD), they accidentally touch and Ever feel so normal (wouldn't you be freaked out?) because she can't listen to his thoughts.
But what I've just told you is nothing these are the things that I hate the most in the book: 1) It's sooo convenient.Oh yuss, Immortals can see people's aura's (WTF?), they are super strong, they are super fast, Ever's reincarnation, immortal serum made long long ago and many more that I have forgotten.2) Damen is described as the most perfect person in the universe.
Ούτε καν για το καλό του αγαπημένου της, αλλά για να ζήσει, λέει, μια φυσιολογική ζωή.Δηλαδή με τις φούστες και τις μπαλαρίνες, με φίλους που την ψιλοεγκατέλειψαν ήταν πιο ευτυχισμένη; Εδώ κοπελιά οι γυναίκες ψάχνουν τους άντρες με μεγεθυντικό φακό κι εσύ διώχνεις το κελεπούρι που σε ψάχνει τόσες εκατοντάδες χρόνια; Θα τραβήξω τα μαλλιά μου και δεν έχω περιθώρια γιατί ήδη μου πέφτουν με την αλλαγή εποχής!Ήθελα λίγο περισσότερο δυναμισμό.
Αν και κάτι μου λέει ο Ντέιμεν κρύβει άσσο στο μανίκι του, οπότε επιφυλάσσομαι.Σε γενικές γραμμές το βιβλίο δεν ήταν άσχημο.
I loved the supernatural romance between Ever and Damen.
Damen is a mystery.
I loved Riley, Ever's sister.
Riley is unable to move on, out of fear that her sister needs her around.
Ever struggles with doing the right thing and letting Riley go.
There are definite similarities to Stephenie Meyer's Twilight series but, this is it's own amazing story.
This is not a Twilight clone.
I'll probably upset some Edward fans but ...
I'm a bigger fan of Damen.
August 2009 is the release for the second installment, Blue Moon.
August can't come soon enough.Would I recommend?
Definitely yes.
I will not lie even when I read the description at first I was put off by the name of Leading lady, I mean really Ever and then her sister had such a normal name Riley, IMO it would have not been so off setting if maybe the sister was given the name Haven and the BFF was given the name Riley so that way the parents stayed solid in the realm of giving weird names.
Enter Damen, an Immortal creep whom Ever (the girl)instantly develops feelings for and Damen in turn toys with her on and off for weeks.And, oddly, he is the only person whose thoughts she cannot hear.
Enter the whole past lives thing, and it would appear that Damen has been chasing Ever (or some incarnation of Ever) down the centuries, only to have her killed off time and time again.
Little does he realize that Ever is always being killed by his ex-wife, Drina Poverina.
Big showdown and in some very deux ex machina way Ever manages to kill Drina by hitting her in the chakra that relates to Drina's distinct lack of love.
This was a YA paranormal romance story, about a teen psychic.I liked Ever and I felt really sorry for her the way she had lost her family in such tragic circumstances.
I liked Damen too, but he was a little irritating with all the red tulips all the time.The storyline in this was about Ever having been in a car accident that killed her family, and left her with psychic powers.
I found this to be a pretty good story though, and it held my interest throughout.
The ending to this was also pretty good, and I am definitely interested to see where the series goes from here.
This book started really good but then it got dumb. If you live forever and don't want anybody to know it, get some furniture. Throw away the paintings that show you in olden times. And what kind of dummy gets back together with a girl who keeps murdering his girlfriend? I wanted to be in love with this book. It was too dumb, so I couldn't. I gave it an extra star for the beginning that was really good.
Decent writing, nonsensical plotting.
Διχάζομαι στο πως να βαθμολογήσω, οπότε βάζω κάτι ανάμεσα σε 3,5 και 4 αστεράκια.Αν μου άρεσε?
Ρε παιδιά, μεγαλύτερο χάπατο από την Έβερ δεν έχω ξανά δει, τύφλα να 'χει η Πέγκυ Καρρά.
Τι ότι του τηλεφώνησε ο γείτονας για να του πει ότι χάλασε ο αυτόματος ποτισμός και πλημμύρισε ο κήπος του της είπε, τι ότι δεν μπορεί να τη πάει σπίτι του γιατί είναι ακατάστατο της είπε, πάλι καλά να λέμε που δεν της είπε ότι έχουν πάθει βλάβη οι μηχανές στο εργοστάσιο!
Και μη βιαστείτε να υποθέσετε πως πρόκειται για ένα ένα ακόμη βιβλίο με ιστορία βρικολάκων, γιατί η ανατροπή δεν αργεί να έρθει!
Something made me keep turning the pages, but this book is horrible.
The romance is unconvincing, the characters flat, the mythology annoying, and there is something cringe-worthy (the names, for one!
It's a cheap Twilight Saga and Southern Vampire/Sookie Stackhouse Mysteries rip-off.
If these books were drinks, Twilight and Sookie would be inexpensive--but very drinkable--champagne: just one more glass...
*upon waking* the horror!
the horror!...
, by Laura Whitcomb.P.S. I'm putting it on my vampire shelf despite the hilarious insistence that the creatures in this book are not vampires (vampires are fake!) but immortals.
Boy has all kinds of odd abilities - moves fast, is drop dead gorgeous, never eats - and girl can't figure him out but can't stay away either.Ring any bells?I felt like I had already read the first hundred pages or so in this Twilight wannabe where Ever loses her family in a tragic car accident and moves in with her aunt in California.
Blah, blah, blah, then someone tries to kill Ever blah, blah, blah and Damen tries to prove he is worthy of her love.Okay, maybe I'm more than a little harsh in this review, but I felt the story was just so flimsy.
I felt inclined to write a review about Evermore, considering this is the worst book I have ever read (pun intended).
I read this book last year, and by now my memory of Evermore has faded.
- Ever’s parents and sister die (you don't uncover how they die up until the end of the book).
-The mysterious guy who is just as boring as Ever comes into the book.
The author attempts to pull this as a huge shock.
I loathed each character in this book.
You know, I thought only books like Twilight, Fallen and Marked were a select few to be considered a real abomination to the YA literature scene at the moment.
It's basically like Fallen -- in which an actual, substantial plot is absent, and what we are left with is pages and pages and pages about Ever and the rest of the universe swooning on about how perfect Damen is.I know I'm just nitpicking now - but I read/watch a lot of reviews where people liked the 'aura chart' at the beginning of the book.
This new kid, Damen, is all smoldering good looks and is interested in MissHoodie and she can’t read his thoughts!
The rest of the book follows Ever and Damen around as he keeps her in the dark about his dark and mysterious past and generally acts all dark and mysterious but because he’s sexysuperhot they fall into an obsessive dysfunctional crazy sort of love.
I could forgive the moody, hell her family was dead, but the author didn’t work that angle to any real emotional effect.
The deaths were used as means to get her to where she is, living with an aunt who conveniently works 168 hours a week so she can hook up with Damen.
Ever Bloom is the most vain, shallow, egocentric, selfish, and mentally deficient character I've ever had the unfortunate pleasure of getting to know.
She begrudges anyone else's happiness, ignores her friends when it suits her, turns into a doormat at the most unlikely times, and is mean to people without reason.
I know about insecurity, but COME ON.
Hard to say since you don't really get to know him in the first book.
There's the affection-deprived goth friend, Haven, who spends her time trying to get people to pay attention to her, even going so far as to attend 12-step meetings for afflictions she doesn't have (Fight Club, anyone?).
No real getting to know her, either.
I'm not sure why, as it was me simply ranting indulgently about how much I loved this book.Take into consideration that I was young and innocent and unaware of young-adult powerhouses like The Hunger Games and Shiver when I read this.
As I continue to read more of this series, it continues to disappoint.What I'm getting at is that I'm not sure if I would grant this book five stars once I re-read it now, as an older and more critical reviewer.
If you want to read some of my more current reviews or my writing in general, you can find it here.*update May 24, 2011 - so I lied, I'm bumping this one down to 4.5 stars.
