https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/144790.Ice_Station
But man, it is the most roller-coaster ridish (yes, there is such a thing), delightfully exhausting, unputdownable, entertaining book I've read in a looooonnnggggg time.» And the other moral of this non review is: and it is thus that Eon the Awesome lifted the Boredom Curse from Hell that had befallen me since the beginning of 2016.
Why read a book called Ice Station, are you having flashbacks to the days of Alistair MacLean and th
but damn it, every chapter finished on such an adrenaline high, I simply had to read the next one to find out what happened!All the various plot pieces revealed throughout the story were seamlessly woven together by the end, and Reilly's dastardly collection of marines, psychos and sadists were so astutely portrayed that I felt like I personally knew every one of them.The story begins at Wilkes Ice Station, a US research facility about nine hundred miles from McMurdo Station, Antarctica.
Everyone wants to secure the spaceship discovery for their country.And so the battle begins!!!!One of Schofield's team peers through the window from a hovercraft vehicle, as troops do battleThroughout this book Reilly delivers cliff-hangers galore!
Par for the course in this kind of fiction, eh?
You can’t take a book like this too seriously, and that is perhaps a saving grace.
Stick with it, laugh, cringe, enjoy!
It’s more akin to playing a video game than reading a novel, but you might well end up buying the sequel too.In the end I’m not sure where to classify this book.
It’s certainly an action novel, but there are smatterings of Science Fiction and Horror (albeit of the B-grade kind) as well.
It was actually quite a bit of fun, all told.
Read it if you dare.
The environment in Antarctica kicks the danger into overdrive. This is one of those action packed books that barely gives the reader time to catch their breath between thrilling scenes.  If the idea of a ufo hidden beneath the ice isn't enough, add to that secret government bad guys determined to lay claim to it. A few different secret governments. Lots of deaths in lots of creative ways.
Maybe a pre-frontal lobotomy.
Though a pre-frontal lobotomy might still be necessary.Give credit where credit is due, though: in the stupid action book category, Reilly is right up there on top.
But believe me, the plot is not the selling point of this book, so I didn't really ruin anything.
This is a story in which the author has modern special forces armed with magneto-grappling-hooks and crossbows.
The earnest, macho tone of Clancy's stories fit the grim Cold War setting really well.
Now you have a generation of writers writing in that same earnest, macho tone about people having high-speed hovercraft battles, shooting crossbows at each other, and getting eaten by killer whales!
How can you take yourself seriously when you're writing this crap?!Still, you've got to grudgingly admire any book that manages to be louder, dumber, faster, and more X-treme than even the worst (in a so-bad-it's-good sense) action films you've ever seen.
Trigger warnings: a metric shit ton of graphic violence.
Like, so much violence.
22/7/2017This book is hella ridiculous.
And I kind of love it.
Everything I said last time stands.
28/2/2014This book is approximately 75% contrivance.
Solutions to major problems appear in the knick of time left, right and centre.
30 year old scuba tanks prove to be viable for several dives.
A 30 year old plane still has power.
I love Shane Schofield.
But it's the good kind of ridiculous, not the kind that makes you want to stab yourself in the eye so you stop reading.
Antarctica,Wilkes Ice Station, two U.S. scientists surface in an ice cave, 3000 feet below sea level,their last moments breathing.Other divers are sent and are never heard from again.The American Marines arrive, amist rumors of an alien spaceship found.Lieutenant Shane Schofield Recon Unit Commander,(nickname Scarecrow)has one great attribute.He never gives up.Schofield will need all that determination to survive.Technological supremecy is the big prize and no one has any friends.With a dozen men and women, Shane has to defend the ICE STATION AGAINST ALL THE ATTACKERS.
About a secret military group that even kills its own people, in order to preserve American superiority in the world.Scarecrow with the assistance of Wendy, an Antarctic seal(the kind with flippers) gets what's left of his friends to the cavern.With the diving bell destroyed, there is no way out.But that's not the immediate problem .
Afterwards, though, I realised that there were a couple of things not addressed or not properly explained, unless I didn’t pick up on the explanations (view spoiler)[like how an aircraft left abandoned in the ice would be able to work 20 years after - it even had a good supply of fuel left(!), how said aircraft got frozen into ice which was supposedly aeons old, and what happened to one of the reconnaissance team members (Mother) after she was picked up off an abandoned ice station (hide spoiler)], and then there was a "tying up" of a loose end that made me more confused than ever, so I’m dropping half a star for those things, but other than that I really enjoyed it and will certainly read Area 7 at some point - 4.5 stars for this one.
This book was incredible. It was literally like watching the most awesome action movie you've ever seen. Each chapter ends with a crazy cliffhanger. But the glue that held this book together was its hero, Shane Schofield. This guy is awesome. He is so endearing to me, he could be a romance novel hero. If you want a book with a thrill a minute, a great hero, and lots of blood and guts, read this book.
This was without a doubt a crazy, insane, action packed, shout out loud, blood curdling, bullet ridden thrill ride!
Blood and guts galore and definitely not for someone unable or unwilling to suspend disbelief.
It really did feel like I was watching a summer action flick.
I knew this going in and I got everything I expected and more.
The hero was awesome and indestructible and just when you think he's not going to make it (besides the fact that there's a Shane Schofield #2!) he comes up with something wild to save the day.
:)P.S. I won't be going to Sea World any time soon!
Ice Station, the first book in the Scarecrow series, is a must read for fans of action thrillers!Matthew Reilly is amazing at blending fact with fiction into his stories, then pounding them with over-the-top action.
When a non-matriarchal character, callsigned Mother, is injured, (view spoiler)[(just a limb) (hide spoiler)] her guns continue to blaze and she still gives lip in the face of danger.Reilly was not the least bit scared to kill off characters in Ice Station; I loved this!
With all the suspenseful scenes, I was constantly worried about the characters, especially those I liked, surviving!Loved the entire story, and keen to hook into more Scarecrow!
If you look at the reviews for the book, the word used the most, even in the positive reviews, is "over the top." It's as if Reilly took every single cliche to ever grace a Steven Segal film then shook it up and poured.This is primarily set in and around an American Ice Station in Antarctica.
One of the harshest, most fascinating settings on earth, and Reilly, except for reeling off a factoid or two you could pick up on Wiki, does nothing to evoke the continent's dangers or beauty.
One of the blurbs refers to the book's "blood-splattering, ultraviolent play" and that's what it offers.
His best line of the movie was "How come this doesn't happen to those other guys?" Shane Schofield, alias "Scarecrow," has a tough job.
Then, after a third of the book, he takes the time to slow things down and add in some character development.
Plot wise the pace starts fast and gets faster then settles down to regroup for another round of BOHICA (Navay Rehtoric for "Bend over, here it comes again).
He also did a good job of hiding adversaries so you might never know where the next one is coming from.
Good read, lots of fun, exciting action and aventure.
If you’re going to read this, be prepared for a testosterone-fuelled ride that won’t let you take a breath until you read the very last line.
But this is escapism and it’s not going to feel like real life.
In the final analysis I’m not sure it’s quite my thing, but I’m glad I gave it a go.And as a final point of clarification, don’t confuse this book with Ice Station Zebra the murder mystery written by Alistair MacLean.
It’s a very different beast, though there was a moment I thought the two were going to follow similar paths.
I mean, come on: Antarctic research stations, mysterious metal things buried in 400 million year old ice...it was addictive!But then, about two hundred pages in, I began to have misgivings.
I guess, in retrospect, I should have seen it from the very beginning, when characters are worried because of a nearby pod of orcas (in the book, only referred to as killer whales) might attack some divers.
And then said pod of whales sinisterly appears and start attacking and devouring humans.
And, of course, super massive, radiation-mutated elephant seals, which, for some reason, live in the center of an ice shelf.
AB
Matthew Reilly knows how to write a thriller that kept my heart pounding to the very end!
An adorable character in a military thriller?
She’s as brave as the leathernecks who respond to an SOS call to the American Wilkes Ice Station in Antarctica.After several scientists disappear beneath the station in a cavern estimated to be 100 million years old, Lt. Shane “Scarecrow” Schofield and his elite Marines respond to the surviving scientists’ SOS call.
Would the French Government actually kill for the technology?
His comrade, Andrew Trent, was killed by the same elite British SAS that is heading for the Ice Station.
Reread this last week and I upgraded my rating to a five star rating.
I kind of don't know why it was a four in the first place.
I know this review isn't very helpful, but I'm too lazy to write a proper one.
Suffice it to say that when I die and I get cremated,I'll ask for this book to get cremated with me.
My family will then go to Antarctica to scatter my and the book's ashes.
"My and the book's ashes" isn't even grammatically correct.I shall leave you with that poorly constructed sentence.
If you are looking for some Nazi's to hate you will find nary a Nazi in this book.Shane Schofield, call-sign Scarecrow, is the leader or a marine force recon team.
We have some awesome side characters in 'Book', the older more squat soldier who rescued Scarecrow when he was shot down as a pilot.
It was this rescue that inspired Scarecrow to become the soldier and leader he is today so Book is in many ways like a father and a best friend.
Part 2 in a four-book review of Matthew Reilly's novelsContest ->  Ice Station  -> Temple -> Seven Ancient Wonders<=  Contest ... found an engaging read again! I liked the story - a simple mystery about an alien artefact found lodged thousands of feet underneath the Antarctic ice shelf. There is an excellent turn half way through (which I will not reveal) that keeps the plot believable, and the novel more tight as a thriller. It is - for a lesser part - well written and Matthew keeps
There is no psychological suspense in these plot segments and after getting through them you feel as if somebody had forced you to watch action scenes from the Transformers movies for 4 hours in a row.And the worst of this is that Matthew does this deliberately!
I'd been finding that the books I was reading were too slow, or taking too long between action scenes.
Like I said - 4 hours of Transformers-style robot-thrashing, rather than 30 minutes."Movies are constrained by budgets", Matthew continues.
WHERE DO I EVEN BEGIN???I'll start with what I said on my journal a couple days ago: This is so ridiculous and balls-to-the-walls insane, like a dumb Hollywood action movie but in book form.
There are explosions and motherfucking homicidal killer whales and snappy one-liners and dramatic sunglasses-removal and Marines flying around on grappling hooks and I am having so much fun with it.Things you can expect in Ice Station: ludicrous action, cool badasses, crazy science, absolutely implausible coincidences, unrealistic timing (2 SECONDS LEFT TO STOP THE BOMB!!), and stoic staring off into the distance.
Lieutenant Shane ("Scarecrow") Schofield, leading a crack team of U.S. Marines is rushed to an ice station in Antartica to secure the station's discovery of what may be an extraterrestrial spaceship. However, French special forces and then British SAS troops attack to secure this prize. Meanwhile, there are traitors everywhere, also working against Schofield and his team's efforts. This is truly pulp fiction, where belief has to be suspended. Schofield and a small pup seal named Wendy are the highlights of the story.
I would lyk to write a detailed review. But u knw....... :p  Frankly, if u r a ura-dhura action adventure fan then there is no reason u will not like it. The main charecter is a likable one. From beginning to ending there is a spring like tension working on the plot and boom boom action which follows it is kind of Super Humanly, but hey!! its Reily!! He is famous for this kind of things, right? Gonna read the next books. Wish i could find this kind of books more in Bangladesh. :)
Man, talk about junk. Not only does it use ignorance to pretend to be Sci-fi, it's HORRIBLY written. In one memorable chapter beginning, he starts three of four consecutive paragraphs with the name "Holmes", and the only reason it's not all four is because the second par of the four starts "George Holmes".Garbage.
Written by a former student of St Aloysius, this book was very exciting and always a had a sudden twist around the corner.
For the first 100 pages there was action, but as i continued into the later stages of the book it was non stop action, which for many people might be a bit overwhelming but personally i loved it.
The way the book was written there where two scenarios going on.
during the book i wasn't really interested in the interviewed but by the end i realised that these were curial because they give away certain twists in the book if you pay enough close attention.
Qué bien lo he pasado leyendo este libro, adrenalina a tope, acción en cada párrafo, apenas he tenido tiempo para respirar.
Que la acción es rocambolesca, descabellada, increíble, imposible y poco realista??
pues tal vez sí, pero está tan bien contado y explicado que yo no he parado un segundo en pensar si los hechos se sostenían o no.
Mi ignorancia, respecto a tecnicismos militares, me ha hecho disfrutar en cada línea de una historia de acción trepidante, más parecida a una película que a una novela.
Un libro de verdad "unputdownable"
James Bond on speed!
If you want to travel to Antarctica, to be shot at with pistols, rocket launchers and crossbows and wrestle with killer whales and (navy) seals, this is the book.
Hilariously over the top.
A total page turner.
Action, action, action from the very first page and it never stops until the end.
I kept thinking, this can not be topped and then something else crazy happened...
I kept giving sound bites to my fellow travellers in the minibus in the morning and they just thought I was bonkers....
If you love action and suspense, don't miss this!
Six stars out of five I think. My favourite Matthew Reilly novel and my first. I highly recommend it. The pace just never stops. People die in the sentence they're introduced. There's killer whales, mutant radioactive seals and Reilly disses Australians. Bloody good.
