https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23638955-pretty-baby
I admire the structure of the plot, the slow unraveling and dissembling of the storyline, timed with the mental unraveling of a few of the main characters.
But, the slowness of the plot and also the fact that I really did not much like these characters was also a stumbling block.
Did feel sorry for Willow at times but there was just something that kept me from immersing myself into these characters stories.
I have read other books where I didn't care for the characters and still liked the book, and I liked this one, but just okay.
I personally think this is a stronger more interesting thought-provoking novel, that her debut: "The Good Girl".
Chris thinks Heidi is a little over-involved in their 12 year old daughters life....for a teen girl going through her tumultuous years.
In time, Willow & baby 'Ruby' are guests -- living with Heidi, Chris, and Zoe in their home Don't you want to know what happens next???
Was Heidi crazy for bringing a 'stray' girl and baby into their home?
Best friends with Heidi & Zoe. Cassidy Knudson: Bright-- sexy- ( every guys fantasy)...
(creates conflicts for Chris and Heidi).
Her husband describes her as a ‘bleeding heart’ and she spends her days looking after the needs of immigrants, many of whom don't speak any English.
She had always wanted a large family, but some years ago serious illness had brought an end to this dream.One day, as she travels to work, she spots a girl on the platform with a baby.
The scene setting was well done and, in the audio version I listened to, the alternating voices of the three main protagonists (Heidi, her husband and the girl with the baby) worked really well.
Others might disagree, of course, and that's the beauty of books (and stories in general).
This book had me on the edge of my seat from the first page. I think I might have liked it more than The Good Girl, and that's saying something! Complex characters, a woven plot that braids perfectly in the end - do yourself a favour and read this book!
So much talking, so many words...WHERE'S THE ACTION? IS THERE A PLOT? I'm really shocked this is so incredibly slow. I've been kicking myself for the last year for not reading any Kubica. I've heard people rave about her books. Well, not me. I don't even care if PRETTY BABY is not as good as her other books, I'm done. I'm getting old and cranky and out of patience for mealy-mouthed novels. Sorry, Kubica fans. It's me, not you.
Pretty Baby is a standalone, psychological thriller written by Mary Kubica.
I won't spoil anything, but if you have a reading experience similar to mine, you'll have a pretty good idea where this story is heading as it slowly progresses.
Regardless, I liked Pretty Baby overall and would recommend it to fans of Mary Kubica or character-driven psychological thrillers in general.
Not to talk to Joseph because he was an odd duck, and then later, when all was said and done, it would be those mommas and daddies who told police that they felt something wasn't quite right.
DNF at 50%This was just very boring.
The Line – ”We’re like the wheels of a car: in sync but also independent.”The Sinker – Told from multi-character point of view Pretty Baby begins its slow build of tension when Heidi spots a teen girl standing on the train platform at Fullerton station, ”Clutching an infant in her arms”.
Heidi is at first curious about the teen and baby, and when she encounters them again, curiosity becomes more than that.
Hearing everyone's story, Heidi along with family, Chris and Zoe, plus Willow and baby Ruby, unfold makes for a good psychological read.
This story is told from three POV - Heidi (the charitable wife), Chris (Heidi's husband), and Willow (the teen-age homeless girl with a baby).
This is a psychological thriller heavy on family drama.Heidi befriends and eventually brings Willow and her baby Ruby to stay in her home.
The problem is she doesn't really know anything about Willow or her past.
There was a twist in the end, but it took to long to reveal and was predictable (for me).The story unfolded slow and steady to reveal how each characters past impacted and shaped their lives.
She can't get the image of this poor girl out of her head, so the next time she sees her again, she knows she has to do something, offer some help.What starts out as an offer for a hot meal ends up with the young girl (Willow) and her baby (Ruby) spending the night at her home, against the wishes of her husband and daughter.
One night turns into two, and soon it becomes clear lines are being crossed and Heidi's life is spiraling out of control...the question is can she make it stop?Told from the voices of Heidi, Chris and Willow, the author weaves past and present story lines together in a way that will leave you stunned.
I haven't been disappointed yet with any of Mary Kubica's novels.
I thought this had an excellent storyline which was well executed and had me interested right from the very first chapter.
The story was told from three different narratives that of Willow, Chris, & Heidi and I have to say that I enjoyed all three characters!
We were teased really early on that something was going to happen to Heidi and I actually had no clue what that was going to be.
I was not disappointed!This was a steady-paced, quick and easy read with a satisfying ending.
I really liked this book from the start. I liked it more then Kubica's first novel THE GOOD GIRL. Really liked the multiple perspectives. There was never a boring moment..fast paced.
Then we have Zooey, their teenage daughter who acts like a brat the way any 13 year old girl normally does I suppose, but her only purpose in the book was to annoy Heidi.
Then we have Willow, the homeless girl who Heidi takes in.
Willow's chapters were so long and wordy and boring and I couldn't care less about her past.
Chris, Heidi's husband, is the only character I liked and related to because I would be reacting the same way if someone in my family brought a homeless person to live with us.
I would like to thank Net Galley for allowing me to review this book.
I have been planning to read Mary Kubica's first book 'The Good Girl' for some time now, but for whatever reason have never actually got round to it.
So when I received the opportunity to read her second book by Netgallery I jumped at it.
I was so impressed with this book, both the writing style and the plot itself.
I picked the book up at every possible opportunity wanting to know more.
The book alternates between the three main characters narrating from their different point of view.
It is extremely well written and has an engaging story and kept me turning the pages!Heidi lives with her husband and pre-teenage daughter in Chicago.
I liked how the book didn’t have too many characters.
The secondary characters in Willow’s story are terrifying, and her story is shocking!I don’t know what it was about Heidi that I didn’t like right from the start.
I know you are not necessarily supposed to like any character in a novel, but I assumed I would resonate with her a little more than I did, and I think it limited my enjoyment of the story.Honestly at the end I found this book to be quite depressing.
Skip ahead a day or so and teenage Willow and baby Ruby are ensconced in the Woods' apartment, though Willow is clearly scared and uncomfortable.Heidi knows it's illegal to harbor homeless underage juveniles for more than a couple of days but can't bring herself to call child protective services.
For me the book moved too slowly and I got tired of Willow's frequent (and sloppy) pancake eating; Heidi cleaning, feeding, and rocking the baby; Chris's numerous business meetings; etc.
I wasn't a huge fan of Mary Kubica's previous book, "The Good Girl", which also has a rotating series of narrators.
The thing is, so many of the things that happen in this book actually happen in the real world.
Just from reading this book makes me think that people need to wake up and look around just a little bit more.
Tell me about that."This book is a great psychological thriller, you don't have a clue what is going to happen or what happened until the author lets you in, lets out snippets of the story until the bitter end.
Pretty Baby is definitely not what I thought it was going to be, the author took it somewhere else.
It's just that this book was not my usual reading genre.
Her husband Chris is an investment banker who travels a lot on business.
At first I felt no connection to any of the characters but as the story progressed I began to feel a bit of sympathy for Willow.
I admired Chris - for his love and loyalty to his family.
It was really hard to connect with Heidi - as a mother I can't begin to imagine her pain, but still....Anyhow, there are plenty of mixed reviews on this one, so I suggest that you look at them before deciding to read this book.
I like this author, a lot!
I gave "The Good Girl" 5 Stars.
It was definitely not the fastest read.
I do think the author's writing skills have sharpened but the story, the characters, the pace all felt like a 4 Star read so that's what I'm giving it.
Good but not great.If you liked "The Good Girl" definitely give it a try.Update - I can't get the ending off my mind.
Maybe because I figured out what was going to happen.
Maybe because I loved "The Good Girl" so much.
I'm lowering my rating to 3.5 Stars.
She will shock her husband Chris and young daughter Zoe, when Heidi brings into there home, a homeless girl, Willow and her baby daughter, Ruby.
What is discovered will send shock waves through Chris, who is unaware that the baby has brought back tragic memories in Heidi, that have been dormant for years and send her into cathedrals of despair.
What seems on paper to be an impostor brought into the home is in fact far more complicated as a life ruined by death and abuse.The main theme i got out of this book after reading is the past that defines us.
Mary Kubica is a great storyteller as proven by her first novel “The Good Girl” – with Pretty Baby she has taken a slightly different approach whilst still writing a dark, intriguing psychological drama with great depth of character and a strong emotive edge.Heidi is heavily into charitable acts so when she constantly spots a young mother and her baby on the streets, she becomes slightly obsessed -to the point of eventually inviting Willow into her home much to the consternation of her husband and daughter.
Master storyteller, Mary Kubica returns with another winner, following award-winning debut,  The Good Girl, with one of the most intense, all-consuming psychological domestic suspense thrillers, PRETTY BABY,  landing on my "Top 30 Books of 2015", capturing you from page one to the very end!As I have mentioned previously, on social media, Kubica is "on fire", and if you thought The Good Girl was off the charts, wait until you read PRETTY BABY;  will blow you away; ripe for the movie pickings, as well.
Soon Heidi has homeless teen and baby moved into to their small family apartment, without discussing with Zoe or Chris.
“There is no exercise better for the heart than reaching down and lifting people up.”  ----John HolmesMary Kubica, the national best-selling American author, pens her new psychological thriller, Pretty Baby, that unfolds a gripping and mystifying story about a woman who helps a homeless teenager and baby by providing them shelter and food in her own home, thus resulting in a unbreakable marital distance between herself and her husband, but when this teenager's story started surfacing up, things take a wrong turn thus making the woman question her decision about providing shelter to that teenager on the first place.
After reading The Good Girl by this author which I absolutely loved, I was so eager to see she had another book due to release, so with some begging, her PR got me my copy via Net Galley via HarlequinI wasn't wrong in my assumptions that this book was going to be as well written.
Heidi notices a person in need.Boarding a train the girl is then lost sight of.Its not the first and won't be the last time she 'bumps' into this young girl who we come to know as Willow.
Heidi Wood helps immigrants for her job.
She tends to notice those needing help.
She notices a young girl standing in the rain with a baby multiple times.
She takes them to dinner and eventually into her home with her disbelieving husband, Chris, and her twelve year old daughter Zoe. Willow, the homeless girl, has piles of secrets and as Heidi tries to help her and the baby these secrets become slowly revealed.
As Willow comes up to the light, Heidi goes through her own version of hell.
Wow!
Disturbing and emotionally draining, an excellent psychological thriller that left me wanting just a bit more closure.
Willow is a homeless teenager, with a baby.
And has Heidi done the right thing?The story is told from the perspective of Heidi and her husband Chris.
Heidi, in particular, is a very believable character and it completely makes sense how much she wants to help a vulnerable girl and her baby.
What slowly grows is a strange dynamic between Heidi and Willow, with the baby at its focus.
A ‘pretty baby’ becomes the catalyst for change.There is a great deal to this story; with underlying themes of child abuse and neglect, grief and obsession.
When reading a book touted as a mystery, thriller, psychological thriller, it’s sad when the only thing that caused my palms to sweat, was worrying that Chris would give into the temptation his hot new co-worker presented.
Heidi and Chris live with their twelve- year -old daughter, going through the motions of life, just like many couples who have been married for a while.
The story is written from the first person perspectives of Chris, Willow, and Heidi.
He apparently didn’t pay close enough attention to his family or what was going on with his wife.Either way, I didn’t really feel like this book fit into the genres in which it was advertised.
It is therefore no surprise when, much to the concern of husband Chris and daughter Zoe, she feels compelled to help a young homeless girl Willow and her baby by bringing them into the family home.
He readily admits that Heidi always makes the important decisions in their house, but can he change that now, put his foot down and say “no”?As soon as we start to read Willow’s story we know that Heidi’s attempt to help her has ended in disaster but what exactly happened is not revealed until the end, although there are clues dotted along the way.
EXCERPT: HEIDIThe first time I see her, she is standing at the Fullerton Station, on the train platform, clutching an infant in her arms. She braces herself and the baby as the purple line express soars past and out to Linden. It’s the 8th of April, forty-eight degrees and raining. The rain lurches down from the sky, here, there and everywhere, the wind untamed and angry. A bad day for hair.The girl is dressed in a pair of jeans, torn at the knee. Her coat is thin and nylon, an army green. She h
I hesitate for a moment—feeling the need to do something—but then board the train like the other do-nothings and, slinking into a seat, watch out the window as the doors close and we slide away, leaving the girl and her baby in the rain.But she stays with me all day.ABOUT THIS BOOK: A chance encounter sparks an unrelenting web of lies in this stunning new psychological thriller from national bestselling author Mary KubicaShe sees the teenage girl on the train platform, standing in the pouring rain, clutching an infant in her arms.
Actual rating 3.5/5 stars.This is both an infamous thriller and one of the longest-standing members on my tbr. Pretty Baby had an interesting concept and delivered consistently right up until the grande reveal, which I found a little convoluted and marred my enjoyment, a little. Still a solidly enjoyable thriller.
