https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10626594-the-scorpio-races
You know I had to. It IS my favorite of all my books, after all.
I am hopelessly and utterly in love with Sean and Corr and Thisby and every word choice is so PERFECT that it melts me.Notable 3rd Read Thoughts:• can Holly pls adopt Sean• Puck keeps trying to be less vinegar but she should be all the vinegar• 99% sure Finn has OCD and it is such a good rep• Gabe and Tommy Falks are my new ship don't @ me• SEAN FREAKING KENDRICK <3 <3• also shout out to the fact that this is truly the best romance of life and Sean and Puck like barely have to hold hands or kiss to be the most beautiful relationship of the world• also why can't I have more• sean tho• i need to go sit down i have emotions--> REREAD #2, JUNE 2016I CANNOT EVEN POSSIBLY REMEMBER HOW TO WORD RIGHT NOW PEOPLE.
“It is the first day of November and so, today, someone will die.”With these haunting words laid out like a feast of uncertainty and doom, Maggie Stiefvater launches a new telling of an old tale inspired by elements of Celtic mythology, legends of the water horses, and her own imagination.And nothing had ever been more beautiful, or fearsome, or bizarre. So, what's this book about? Each October, dread settles over the island of Thisby, as The Scorpio sea throws capaill uisce—commonly known as wa
Of all the things Sean Kendrick has conjured in years of yearning for an independent life, buying the right to his water-horse stallion, Corr, was a thing he only folded inside his heart, until he was assailed anew by the brew of feelings that had churned in him at the terrible clear-eyed certainty that it was now or never.Katherine “Puck” Donnelly becomes the first woman to ever compete in the Scorpio Races, rolling the dice on her own survival for her family’s sake, which had seemed—after her eldest brother decided to move to the mainland and abandon her alongside her younger brother—to be drifting away from each other like untethered boats in the mercy of the tides.
Did no one tell him that pain lives in this sand, dug in and watered with our blood?”I really don’t know where I should start with this review because just like any of Maggie’s other books this one wasn’t only magical but also so damn atmospheric that it’s more than just hard to put my feelings into proper words.
Sean Kendrick turns his face away.There’s something so wretched in that that I can’t just leave him there by himself.”I swear Sean and Puck had to put up with so many things before the races and I loved them so much for never giving up!
This is a difficult book to sum up.Two individuals, Sean and Puck, are preparing separately for the annual Scorpio Races (where the dangerous water horses of Thisby face off against each other with their riders and generally lots of bloodshed) until their lives eventually collide into each other.
If you loved Shiver, then you might love this one.Right around the time that the Black Beauty movie with Chris O'Donnell came out, I went through horse phase like many young girls probably do.
The one thing I really like about what Maggie did with this book, though the same may not be said for Shiver, is that she didn't follow the pack with The Scorpio Races.
It's very difficult for me to put into words.But I suppose the best way I can say it is this: The Scorpio Races is the kind of story I would hope to write, if I had the talent.It's incredibly unique.
And I read the last thirty pages of this story with tears streaming down my face.I'm just so damn emotional, and sitting here in a heap of my feelings.I know this review isn't very specific, but it suffices to say that I loved everything.
3.5/5 stars!I really liked The Scorpio Races, and I'm glad I listened to it on audiobook.
There is such a rich atmosphere, and the descriptions left vivid images of the setting in my mind.
I felt like I was there on Thisby, experiencing the world alongside Puck and Sean.
I'm assuming it's a fictional island, but there was a reference to the States, so there is some blend with our present world.My main concern was the slower pace, though I think my expectations hindered my full enjoyment of the story.
With a slower pace, there is plenty of room to explore the origins of Thisby's traditions.
"It's easy to convince men to love you.
Sean's heart beats for something that he doesn't own.
My heart goes out to every single tiny detail of this book.
But most of all for the oh so precious characters.
I'm a little in love with all of them, but very much so with Finn.I'm at loss with words and it's too late to form a clear thought, especially now that The Raven King is waiting for me to be read.
A+ for world building, plot, characters, writing, unpredictability and magic.
Perfect from start to finish.Find more of my books on Instagram
I ACTUALLY CRIED WITH THE LAST LINE OF THIS BOOK. REAL TEARS.
I can't do that without careful navigation of metaphor and character development.(From Ms. Stiefvater’s blog post)But I’ll limit my praise to The Scorpio Races for now:This time, Stiefvater flirted a little more seriously with the fantasy genre and created an amazingly gripping story.People on the fictional island Thisby live and breathe for one thing and one thing alone: wild and bloodthirsty water horses, the capaill uisce.
This year more than ever Sean has to win the races because if he wins, Benjamin Malvern will finally sell him Corr, thus setting them both free.
I don't even know what to say!
I feel just terrible writing this, and if you want to know just how much, it actually took me 4 months to make myself finish the book--partly because I wasn't engaged in the story, but also because I could sense that this wasn't going to be good reading experience.
Well, there are a number of violent deaths of both human and horse randomly inserted into the story, but few of them were particularly affecting to me, as there was so little time setting them up or dealing with the aftermath that none of them felt particularly real.Aside from lack of action, however, I also had a number of issues with the writing.
► I reckon the reasons for which The Scorpio Races weaved itself throughout my beloved favorites could cause an opposite reaction to other readers. Do I care, though? No, because every slow-paced page, every heartfelt and beautiful sentence, every haunting and atmospheric landscape, every inch of Sean's bloody-stained jacket and killer horse reminds me that if nothing else, The Scorpio Races has a soul, and I'm consumed by it. "I am here on firm ground, but part of me is already down on the beac
No, because every slow-paced page, every heartfelt and beautiful sentence, every haunting and atmospheric landscape, every inch of Sean's bloody-stained jacket and killer horse reminds me that if nothing else, The Scorpio Races has a soul, and I'm consumed by it.
Does The Scorpio Races revolve around the sea killer horses and the race taking place every year on Thisby's beach?
► The Scorpio Races changed me, somehow, even if I can't pinpoint in what way so far, and this story will linger for a very long time in my heart.
Ένα μικρό νησί άγονο,αραιοκατοικημενο,πνιγμένο στην αλμυρα και τους καταστροφικούς ανέμους με απόκρημνες και επικίνδυνες παραλίες και αγανακτισμένους ή ονειροπόλους νησιώτες,ειναι το νησί που διεξάγονται οι αγώνες του σκορπιού.
Κάθε χρόνο στις αρχές του Νοέμβρη ένα έθιμο που αποτελεί ιεροτελεστία για τους κατοίκους αλλά και το μοναδικό τουριστικό θέλγητρο.
Στις παραλίες του ξεβράζονται κάθε χρόνο το φθινόπωρο τεράστια μυθικά τέρατα με τη μορφή αλόγου τα οποία λατρεύουν τη θάλασσα και κατασπαράζουν ότι κινείται στη στεριά.
Τα κάπειλ ίσκα ειναι η ονομασία των μυθικών θαλάσσιων αλόγων που εμφανίζονται από τα νερά του αντλαντικου στην παραλία αυτού του νησιού και ο θρύλος τους ειναι αναπόσπαστο κομμάτι αίματος και θανάτου στους αγώνες του σκορπιού.
Buddy reading this with  my queen,  Em (rip)  my girl,  Empress   but they both have no chill so I'm going ahead and starting. :)  Maggie Stiefvater has built a world that I want to live in forever.  The Scorpio Races  is a slightly mystical, slightly historic, all-around awesome tale narrated by our two main characters, Sean Kendrick and “Puck” Kate Connolly. Every November the Scorpio Races take place which is a race where riders must hold their water horses away from the siren waters long eno
:)  Maggie Stiefvater has built a world that I want to live in forever.
The Scorpio Races  is a slightly mystical, slightly historic, all-around awesome tale narrated by our two main characters, Sean Kendrick and “Puck” Kate Connolly.
Every November the Scorpio Races take place which is a race where riders must hold their water horses away from the siren waters long enough to cross the finish line.
Puck Connolly, on the other hand, finds herself in a situation where she  has  to ride in the dangerous races.
Never have I read a book so built and raw and real.
Also, Sean Kendrick is everything.
3 StarsOverview: “There are moments that you'll remember for the rest of your life and there are moments that you think you'll remember for the rest of your life, and it's not often they turn out to be the same moment.”  Look, no one is more upset about this rating than me. I wanted to love this so much. I recently finished The Raven Cycle, and it became one of my favorite series. I’d heard so many great things about this, I was sure I’d love it....But I just feel really underwhelmed?Pros:I sti
I understood the characters and what they were struggling for, and in the first few chapters I really felt for them and was certain this book was going to make me cry.
Which is strange, because I’m certain I’ve read weirder… but I kept stumbling over details?If Puck’s been raised on this island and loves it with all her soul, why does she know so little about the race proceedings?
The actual race lasted like 8 pages, and somehow ended up feeling rushed?In Conclusion:It’s times like this I wonder if I read the same book as everyone else.
“Vices were only vices when looked at through the frame of society.” Another remarkable story delivered by Maggie Stiefvater, there is a surprise! I have a strange relationship with Maggie's characters. I don't just love Ronan Lynch. I love everything that comes with him. I love Chainsaw like it's my pet. I'm protective of his BMW like it's my adopted child. Hell, i even love his boyfriend like i'm his mother. Same goes here: I don't just like Kate and Sean, it's just everything! I'm not sure i
“Vices were only vices when looked at through the frame of society.”
Another remarkable story delivered by Maggie Stiefvater, there is a surprise! I have a strange relationship with Maggie's characters. I don't just love Ronan Lynch. I love everything that comes with him. I love Chainsaw like it's my pet. I'm protective of his BMW like it's my adopted child. Hell, i even love his boyfriend like i'm his mother. Same goes here: I don't just like Kate and Sean, it's just everything! I'm not sure i can explain it. Full review to come soon.
Even the wind is hungry here, "a live, starving thing." The tomboyish Kate, otherwise known as 'Puck,' and her brothers have been orphaned ever since the carnivorous water horses killed their parents.
Even something as simple as Sean watching a man carving meat is described carefully: "I am mesmerized by the utter unawareness of the entire process, the childlike pleasure Beech takes in a job ill done." There's quite a few ugly occurrences in this book, but something about the prose makes it darkly beautiful: "Padgett is beginning to look improbable; something about him is starting to look less like a man and more like meat."I enjoyed the uniqueness of the mystical element in the water horses and the mythology of the island.
Kindle Daily deal for $1.99 10Sept17Buddy Read starting Feb 15, 2015 with Brandi, Nicholas, Tandie, Sophie, D G, Athena Shardbearer, Kerry, Mich, AshleyR, Jessica and Michelle at Buddies Books and BaublesSteve West has one of the sexiest voices ever. What a great time I had listening to this story all over again. Thanks buddy readers for a really fun reread of a story I enjoy. Original Review:4.5 Stars “I didn't know," I start truthfully, "that it was the hard way when I started on it.” I’ve hav
I’ve have never given a recommendation to specifically read or listen to book but I think for this one I will.
Sean needs to win to be able to buy the waterhorse he loves and freedom for them both.
There are some heart stopping events happening throughout the book but for the most part it is about the two people trying to get by with what they have been given and falling unexpectedly in love along the way.
The actual race isn’t until the very end of the book and doesn’t take long.
I wanted to stay with Puck and Sean and Finn even after the ending.
They are just the event the author has chosen in order to show us the lives of the people on the Island of Thisby, a harsh and economically depressed place, with little hope for the locals, with the youth finding their way either away to the main land, or often killed by the creatures that make the Island unique among any others… The capaill uisce, the mythical Water Horses which come to the beach every November and ride, taking down people as well as animals for their kills, and going back to the sea.
I am seriously excited for this. As excited as this kitten, in fact.
That was a complete and utter gift. I will treasure this book for the rest of my life.
I've enjoyed her Mercy Falls trilogy for over a couple of years, but this book has definitely pulled her away from the pack and shown she has what it takes to deliver a novel that will have you falling for the characters, emerging yourself in the setting, and feeling the magic.
The Scorpio Races is a high stakes game that only the best men enter to compete.That's until Puck (Kate) Connolly finds herself not only orphaned when her parents fall victim to these savage horses that crave blood, but also when her older brother Gabe decides to abandon her and Finn, the youngest of the three, to the mainland.
But Scorpio Races is a lot different from her other books that after reading the prologue, I was already sure I’d fall in love which is weird because the book is just basically about wild, ugly, devilish horses based on Celtic myth also called capaill uisce pronounced as “copple ooshka” that sprout from the ocean.
It’s dangerous and life threatening but Puck, our heroine must (for a lot of important reasons) join the races and take her chances on her ole regular horse called  Dove .
What I’m pretty sure of is that Scorpio Races will make a spot in my top 5 favorites reads of 2017.
I have so many books on my tbr and yet here I am again, wanting to re-read this for the millionth time.
If they can master these mounts, they can ride in the yearly races for honor, glory, and big cash bets.
Sean Kendrick races for his father, killed by the same water horse he rides now, and for the horse farm he works for as chief hostler.
He has won the Scorpio Races four times and understands the water horses like no one else.
She has never ridden a water horse, and plans to ride her own normal horse in the races.
Puck is despised and scorned--no girl has ever ridden in the races, though they began in honor of a goddess whose rites were observed--are still observed--by a priestess.
Yet I found myself drawn into this story, this mythic tale of savage water horses in a barbaric race created by all too real people, and I found myself hoping it was all real.
Maggie Stiefvater's mythic capaill uisce are wild water horses that come ashore the island of Thisby once a year.
The races are Thisby's main attraction, so most islanders just manage to eke out a living.
Sean, the whisperer, lost his father to capaill and his mother to the mainland, but he's won the races 4 times.
It feels like he's confessed that he's dying of a disease I've never heard of, with symptoms I can't see. The utter wrongness of it, the way it won't fit in my head, keeps coming back to me again and again, as if I've only just learned about it.   The Scorpio Races is about man-eating horses, but it's more about finding where you belong. Here, two very different people try to hold onto the things they love most, even as their world spins around them. Maggie Stiefvater's writing style is just a
The utter wrongness of it, the way it won't fit in my head, keeps coming back to me again and again, as if I've only just learned about it.
As is usual with her books, I only realized how invested I was in these characters when the book hit the conclusion.
Even side characters like Finn are instantly believable with strong voices.
They fit together like puzzle pieces, and I love that– how they make each other better.
I've only recently begun to realize the importance of setting in books, and The Scorpio Races definitely benefits from setting.
Welp, kids. It's been real, but I'm going to retire now. This is a perfect book. It's perfect. This. Book. Is. Perfect.It is an embarrassment for me to even try to write anything after this. So, in lieu of continuing to try to write, I will simply be giving out copies of The Scorpio Races to everyone for all future birthdays and Christmases.

