https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/102323.Swamp_Thing_Vol_3
Vertigo born here! This Hardcover Edition collects "Swamp Thing" #35-42.Creative Team:Writer: Alan MooreIllustrators: Stephen Bissette, Rick Veitch & Stan Woch ENTER: JOHN CONSTANTINE In this third volume of the saga of Swamp Thing, you will be witness of the birth of the Vertigo line of comics (once an alternative label by DC Comics to publish material oriented to mature readers, usually involving horror and/or paranormal topics).You have to keep in mind that at the moment of original publ
Don't worry since you will have more zombies that you can manage here!Swamp Thing, now that he accepted his true nature, facing paranormal forces and voodoo magic, he will begin his learning path to new powers and skills, in such levels, that Swamp Thing will become one of the most powerful characters in DC/Vertigo Universe.I'm not kiddin' !
The Swamp Thing is getting better now.
:)The close second is the rest of the stores with Constantine playing guide and snarky teacher to Swamp Thing, which could have been hokey but instead just lets us enjoy a bit of a power up.
I mean, he's supposed to be one big plant connected to the Green, right?
Not just some entity eating a bunch of fertilizer, right?
*sigh* But at least that gave greenie the chance to explore some possibilities, so I'm not gonna complain so much.Definitely starting to shape up in a very nice way.
I hope it only gets better, and I'm pretty sure it will.
I read the first volume a couple years ago, saw the pulp horror vibe and the environmental theme, and thought: Yeah, this is good, Moore takes a sort of trashy monster comic and spins into greater significance .
The werewolf as woman story here is especially dark and sad.In this volume we are introduced to John Constantine, Hellblazer, who will show up in Sandman, and be a central DC horror comics anti-hero, taking Swampy on a tour of the country, the underbelly of American culture, really scarier than just things that go bump in the night, the American Gothic, pre-Trump Amerika.Oh, but underneath all this is a love story, Swampy’s love of Abby, his essentially Back to the Earth goodness and commitment to help people.
Constantine leads him on a merry chase in search of knowledge about himself and he does get a little, but he also helps people in the chase.
People he would not other wise have helped or even been aware of.The final story features a film crew making a movie on the site of an old slave plantation.
I don't think so, but this plantation has an unusually evil story and the souls of those that endured it begin to animate in the film crew and actors.
There are so many stories Moore could tell and ST belongs on the pages of a book because film just would not do him justice.
John Constantine has his first appearance in this volume, little more than a shadow of what he'd eventually develop into.
Here, he's a mysterious figure who shows up unannounced to smirk cryptically at the main characters.
Constantine aside, this looks to be the start of a larger overarching story, with the immediate result of giving Swamp Thing a decent power up and continuing the development of his relationship with Abby.
I do appreciate that it's being developed episodically, especially since that gives Moore the ability to work on a lot of different concepts in one collection.
The werewolf story is particularly arresting in its bleakness.
Red arc from Book One), it is, perhaps, the most consistently excellent of the Moore years so far -- and it does contain my favourite single issue: "The Curse."It begins with the creepy "The Nukeface Papers," wherein Swamp Thing begins to understand the breadth of his powers.
Add to all of this brilliance the dirty, nicotine stained fingers of John Constantine (looking as he did for so many of his early years as Dune-era Sting), and Book Three of Saga of the Swamp Thing is a high point for the Moore-Bissette-Totleben collaboration.
The Swamp Thing has fully shed its past and the complicated threads of Alec Holland's old life.
Here is the richness of the swamp in all of its glory, and the Swamp Thing beginning to realize the truth of what he is and what he is capable of.
Like the plants he is made up of, he is capable of regeneration, of growth, and of harnessing far more power than one might think possible.
All that we know is that strange things are beginning to rear their ugly heads.
I can understand fully how this run garnered so much praise and fond memory.
I feel like a lot of people have heard of swamp thing but don’t know how good this really is. One of the best there is. 5 stars.
John Constantine acts as a catalyst to not only make Swamp Thing discover his abilities, but also to give this series a new direction. We're not grounded in Louisiana anymore, but travel across America to discover paranormal threats and Swampy moves there to deal with them. I love how the threat is connected to a real-world issue every time, be it the dangers of nuclear waste, racism or repression of women.Once again there's no weak point throughout the volume, this is a rare synergy of scripting and artistic talent.
It's a great book that shows you the creature who embodies the best of humanity isn't even a human at all, but rather, an Earth Elemental.Swamp Thing also learns he's far more powerful than he ever thought, after some help from a new source, a character who would come into his own soon after: John Constantine.
Constantine comes across as a nebulous character, neither good nor evil, but more of a survivor and even a witness to the strangeness of the world around him.
SWAMP THING IS FREAKIN AMAZING!!!!!I really do love this series.
And like most of the reviews on here point out, this features the first appearance of John Constantine.
In some ways this volume reminded me a lot of Original Sins, although I'm more fond of Alan Moore's work than Delano's.
This had a series of seemingly unrelated events building towards a coming darkness as foreseen by Constantine.
This is full of the stuff I love here, horror and gore, but as always Moore ha delivered it in a beautiful way.
This series just gets better and better.
The reader is always aware that supernatural forces can, at any time, enter the territory of the swamp and unearth some old evil that will threaten, if not the entire world, then at least this small pocket of it.
Swamp Thing is perhaps the most philosophically profound series of the DC universe because Alan Moore carefully balances the real world empiricism of biology with deeper questions about the nature of reality and perception.
John Constantine introduce a la cosa del pantano en una búsqueda del autoconocimiento, en una investigación sobre sus poderes y su razón de ser, que le lleva a distintos lugares de la geografía norteamericana donde se encontrará con distintos seres sobrenaturales.Y así es como comienza la etapa de esta colección que se dio en llamar american gothic, que no hace otra cosa que adaptar los monstruos clásicos de las historias de terror a la cultura e idiosincrasia estadounidense, así nos encontraremos con historias de vampiros, zombies, hombres lobo...
Pero con un giro inusual que las hace especiales y únicas.Quizá estas historias sean algo más comerciales que las que encontrábamos hasta ahora, pero para mi gusto aquí la colección empieza a conseguir una solidez que no tenia hasta el momento, antes había números puntuales excepcionales, pero en esta etapa ninguno tiene desperdicio.
Swamp Thing’s abilities begin to expand as he is joined by John Constantine in this book. While many of Swamp Thing’s villains so far have been tied to him and/or the Swamp/Green, this book features more traditional monsters. I liked seeing Alan Moore’s take on different monsters and folklore, particularly a woman becoming a werewolf as a symbol of breaking the bonds of patriarchy. Really enjoyed seeing the various places where this went.
No me ha gustado tanto como el Vol. 2 que literalmente es un viaje por la mejor oscuridad descrita en el medio gráfico pero bueno, sale Contantine y tiene a un montón de monstruos invitados y comentarios sociales. Recomendado ampliamente como lectura de metro (edificante y que hace que se te olivde un poquito que los monstruos con los que viajas son más temibles)
Some really imagine takes on vampires and werewolves (and other traditional horror tropes) and captivating panel layouts.
ขำตรงทีวา 1/4 ของ book 1 เริมดวยความเปน sci-fiจากนันกคอย ๆ ฉีก เรือยมาจนถึงเลมนี book 3 มีการเปิดตัว Constantine ซึงแทบจะตอกฝาโลงโบกมือลาความเปน sci-fi แลวเขาสูโหมดไสยศาสตรเตมสูบ
ขำตรงที่ว่า 1/4 ของ book 1 เริ่มด้วยความเป็น sci-fiจากนั้นก็ค่อย ๆ ฉีก เรื่อยมาจนถึงเล่มนี้ book 3 มีการเปิดตัว Constantine ซึ่งแทบจะตอกฝาโลงโบกมือลาความเป็น sci-fi แล้วเข้าสู่โหมดไสยศาสตร์เต็มสูบ
This is an honest-to-god conundrum, a relic of a bygone era of pop culture, the work that is quite good and also quite bad.There is art in here that is just awful.
There is writing that is just bad.
There are stories that fall so far short of their mark that you wonder they include them -- like "The Curse," a story that even the letterer manages to screw up.
Seriously, a major plot point is lost because of bad lettering.
But it's all so perfect that I'm wondering what I'm even complaining about.
These are stories that had to be.
In his unpredictability, we come to find new and inspiring sides of ourselves, and of comics, and of others.If Morrison has lived his entire career as the incorrigible teenager of comics, inspiring in his gusto but disappointing in his ego, then Moore has always been the old man of comics, a crafty wizard who knows things we don't want to know, who leads us patiently through our wide-eyed bumbling and self-absorption, past the explosions and gun battles, and into our own back yard to show us something beautiful that was there the whole time.We'll wonder why he doesn't want our thanks.
Baš kad sam se naštimao na Mooreovu stripovsku frekvenciju, završila je druga knjiga i bome sam se pitao što nas očekuje u sljedećima knjigama.
Ovaj trejd je poseban jer se tu također pojavljuje i veliki cinični mag Constantine u epizodi "Izrastanje" i njegova pojava vodi nas u daljnju evoluciju Čudovišta iz močvare koja će kulminirati u sljedećoj priči."Zapisi o nuklearcu" prilično je rudimentarna priča bez neke radnje no s podsvjesnom porukom o zlu i strahu od nuklearne energije.
Sve su to užasi na domaćem terenu, i možda još strašniji kad ih se prenese na ondašnju američku svakodnevicu...
Fantastic!World: Great art that matches the story and great world building that expands the world and slowly grows the world more and more for Swamp Thing.
The pieces we have here with John Constantine's introduction to the world and what that leads is amazing.
The world building that allows Swamp Thing to go anywhere is amazing and ties into the lore and mythos of the green and it's wonderful.
The pieces of the larger DCU world we are getting in the story and the introduction of John Constantine are great.
Leaving the cosmic traveling of the previous volume behind -ST would never be that good again; moving on- you now find Alan Moore in his funnest most mocking behaviour: taking typical genre pulp and changing it up just enough.
The blues, greens and purplish tones complement darkness well, as we see a group of vampires that was given an accidental start some time ago by Swmapie himself.
"Southern Change" starts a storyline about a film crew adapting an antebellum narrative amidst some cruel underlying voodoo.
Moore is too cruel sometimes but he does know that sometimes what his readers need is what they don't want.
Quando, em adolescente, comecei a ler comics os primeiros que apanhei foram o que mais tarde vim a saber serem a série American Gothic de Alan Moore na sua temporada ao leme de Monstro do Pântano.
Aquele que vai levar o Monstro numa viagem de combate aos mitos e medos, bem como mostrar-lhe aquilo que realmente é e pode fazer, culminando na sua apresentação ao Parlamento das Árvores.
São histórias de terror, bem escritas, quer na prosa quer na construção narrativa, ilustradas pelos estilos expressivos de Alcalá e Totleben (que deram à série a sua marca visual), em que a criatura do pântano não é a força decisiva nem o foco narrativo.
I guess my fundamental problem with Swamp Thing as a character is that it seems stupid for him to wind up fighting anyone.
When your main character is indestructible, physical conflict is stripped of tension, and in the staccato format of a comic book, it just winds up looking a little silly.Swamp Thing (and Moore, for that matter) seems to be at his best when struggling against concepts, rather than adversaries, which makes it tough to come up with discreet narratives.
I was curious how recognizable he would be, and although he's physically different, it's nice to see that he's always been an asshole.
I had long been told stories about how Moore was able to translate this pulp character into somethin

Alan Moore's tenure on the Swamp Thing title is considered to be truly groundbreaking.
There's massive opportunity for over-the-top farce in Swamp Thing, but Moore takes the character seriously and spins complex tales of love, humanity, evil, and ambiguity.
The series is also the birthplace of Hellblazer's John Constantine, and the contrast between Constantine's smart-mouthed, "victory by any means necessary" attitude and Swamp Thing's slow-talking, moral, and fiercely loyal personality is fantastic.
This series isn't for the squeamish; we're talking radioactive zombies, dismemberment, creepy-crawlies, etc., but if you like your horror to be smart, well-written, and funny, you need to check this out.
Basically, Alan Moore's run on Swamp Thing numbers both among the best comics I've ever read and the best horror I've ever read, period. I love them so much. That said, I didn't own any of them (I know!) so when they started releasing the hardcover editions, I've been picking them up. I'm up to the third one, which I just recently acquired and finished reading. They're just as good as I remember, and this one is the start of the "American Gothic" storyline which introduces John Constantine and includes some of my favorite stuff in the series.
Still pretty good.
This was a tougher read than previous volumes for some reason.
In volume three, Moore continues to touch on a variety of topics that are as relevant today as they were when he initially wrote the book, such as racism, misogyny, feminism and, of course, pollution and ecology.
The writing is still great, the art is still breathtaking, but I still feel like this series is just starting to gain some momentum, even though I am halfway through already.
I don't have this feeling that I immediately have to read the next book after finishing the previous one.
