https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/979766.We_Didn_t_Mean_to_Go_to_Sea
He takes the Swallows' adventure in his stride, and that puts all the drama of the high seas back into its place - run of the mill for a man of the sea, rather than totally extraordinary.While it's actually underway, of course, not Susan nor any of the Swallows would class what's going on as 'run of the mill' (Susan has every reason to think John is dead at one point, for a start).
For the Swallows, and for the reader, it is a totally extraordinary journey; and at the end, the homecoming.
I didn't like that it was the girls who ended up seasick and panicky, especially since Susan's character has always skimmed the edge of being stodgy and grown-up anyway; if it weren't for Captain Nancy and Mate Peggy from the earlier books, as well as Titty's seasickness rising from what's apparently a recurring migraine, this could imply an inherent weakness in the female character.
Another thing I didn't care for is that the children didn't all get equal time in the story, and Titty in particular didn't have a lot to do.
The Walker children are paired up with a new sea-going vessel the GOBLIN owned by a competent young man Jim Brading.
As per usual the children are caring of one another, cautiously brave, competent young sailing explorers, and inventive.
The Walker children's father finally makes more than a cameo appearance.
It's hard not to feel good reading this adventure series.I do recommend reading the books in the series in order.
I would not give such a high star rating for this book without considering it as part of the series -- and a strong part of the series at that.
I didn't like this as much as the others in the series so far, mostly because there is too much technical sailing jargon and discussion of sandbanks to really grab me, as a non-sailor.Basically the action moves from the Lake District to the east coast - Harwich to be exact.
It's a ripping yarn and I thoroughly enjoyed it.
The main characters is group of siblings, that once meet a boy with sailing boat and become friends with him.
They persuade him to take them on boat while they are waiting for their father to come back from business trip in Netherland.
He agrees but with the back luck fortune, on the day of start of the sail the boy gets separated from the children as he hits his head and end up unconscious in hospital.
The children are on the boat alone and they are slowly but surely going to end up on an open sea.
I found and read the Swallows and Amazons series in my early 20s. I am only sorry I did not find them earlier. Stories of the family's summer adventures are beautifully written, and encourage responsible and creative living. Self reliance, intelligent reasoning skills, and strong imagination with these children provide an excellent backdrop for this series of books, as well as strong roll-models for any youngsters reading them.
I love this adventure in which the Walker children end up drifting out to sea, and must use all their nautical know-how to survive on the open ocean.Tensions run high, and every new obstacle shows each vibrant character at their best, despite their fears and foibles. I love every book in the series!
This is a wonderful children's book that I would highly recommend. Full of laughs, realism, and siblings being independent, this is a story that's sure to entice the most reluctant reader. Dear me that sounded cheesy. But seriously, this is an awesome little story that was just as good as I remembered, if not more so!
The book is actually: We Didn't Mean to Go to Sea which I read as a child. Today it would be on the young adult shelf, but in my opinion would be enjoyable for adults. It is a wonderful adventure story, and I have read it two or three times.
One of my go to titles when I need reassurance! Arthur Ransome, Dick Francis, J.K. Rowling, Robin McKinley, you never fail me!
There’s something so cosy and comfortable about Arthur Ransome’s “Swallows & Amazons” series.
3 cheers for his publishers - all those years ago - for not going with a trained illustrator!A little side note - Ransome’s world is technically precise - the nautical details are clearly accurate.
In my ignorance of much of the sailing terminology I found myself just filling in the gaps at no real loss to the telling of the tale.If you’ve not read the series, jump in with “Swallows and Amazons” and lose yourself in a gentle world of pemmican, fo’c’s’les, friendship and ships ahoy.
If you get hooked and a fair wind fills your sails, there’s a host of adventures ahead!
A sentimental read, as I enjoyed this book 40 years ago.
Still reads well; Ransome is a very concrete realist writer, so expect specific descriptions ("the charts were rolled up, above Roger's bunk" etc).
The book is of it's time - no mobile phones, you just waved at mother on the pier, used flag signalling, telegrams, or perhaps, Morse code.
The big reveal is the famous 4 run into their Dad, on a ferry, and he sails home with them.
The difference in the conveyed passage of time sailing over (storm, sea sickness, uncertainty, fear) and sailing back (tea, calm seas, Dutch snacks, and Dad the sailor) is the absolute best.
One of the best stories I've ever read!
The narrative is outstanding from beginning to end, the momentum never slows with this tale of the high seas.
This scary, risky undertaking is all the more riveting since it begins unintentionally by accident.
The kitten rescue fits nicely into the story and is the cherry topper.
I'm not sure this would have quite the same impact as a stand alone, so it's probably advised to first read at least a couple others in the series to be familiar with the characters and tone.
A truly good read!
Growing up the Swallows and Amazons series by Arthur Ransome was one of my favorite series. When I decided to re-read it as an adult I was worried that it would not stand the test of time. I was delighted to find that in general found it just as enjoyable now as I did as a child. The characters, writing style and adventures are great and I truly enjoyed the series.
The best of the Swallows and Amazons. Certainly the most thrilling. And unimaginable today - four underage youth left alone on a boat, out of touch of adults, forced to sail that boat through a storm to another country before re-connecting with the adult world? Impossible. Wonderful. Terrifying.
Great fun - so many nautical terms, perfect for sailors of any age :)
Main character is not human, it's the boat!
I read the other Arthur Ransome books as a child but this one never came my way. My sister sent it to me having found it second hand and I enjoyed it very much.
W - LDPlaceholder
even with all the nautical stuff which I skim over since I know nothing about, it was an amazing story!! very exciting and full of unplanned adventure- like the title says!!!!!!
We Didn't Mean to Go to Sea is my favourite of the Arthur Ransome Swallows and Amazons series of books.
I really enjoyed it I like when the littles grow up more they would really enjoy it.
This review also appears on my blog, Read-at-Home Mom.In We Didn’t Mean to Go to Sea, the Walker children and their mother are waiting at Pin Mill for Daddy to arrive home when they meet a young sailor named Jim Brading.
It almost feels like a finale, and though I have started the next book and I’m enjoying it, I still think We Didn’t Mean to Go to Sea could have served as the perfect conclusion to the Walkers’ stories.
After having read the recent children's novel, Summer at Forsaken Lake (Beil), with its many references to this book, I made an effort to get a copy.
This book is a part of the classic "Swallows and Amazons" series.
You are getting a little look at 1930s Holland, since, supposedly the author made this voyage himself before writing the book, so I have a sense that it may be an accurate look from an Englishman's eyes.
In 1929, living with his wife in England's Lake District, he began writing the "Swallow and Amazons" series.
In this story, four of them, the Walker family brothers and sisters have an amazing adventure when the boat they are sleeping on drifts out to sea and they have to navigate their way through a storm, alone.It is a very well-paced book, a good build up and then plenty of excitement through the most adventurous parts.
These are all very real brother and sister tensions in what has to be a very unreal setting.This is a state of affairs that feels like it could never happen today, and yet it is so enthralling that it is perfectly believable.
Ransome makes you feel that this could just happen and that these children just might be able to deal with it!
It's very odd coming back to a book after a gap of, perhaps, 40 years, and seeing whether it still works (and how much you can remember!) I loved it then and enjoyed it just as much this time round, but it was a different experience reading it as an adult (have I turned into Susan?) It's full of sailing terminology which can be a bit off-putting if you don't sail, but part of the point of reading books which are outside your own experience is to expand your horizons and knowledge, and these books certainly do that.
I loved all the Arthur Ransome books as a child, but although my son enjoyed "Swallows and Amazons" he seemed to get bored very quickly with the second one and I abandoned them some time ago with him.
Of course, the title is an obvious clue to what is going to happen...Jim has to sail to shore to get supplies, and he never returns (his apparent disappearance is explained later in the book), and the boat is somehow swept out to sea with the kids on board; the storyline provides the greatest amount of peril yet in the series, and mostly revolves around the Swallows attempting to steer the ship back to land on stormy waters.
I have the next book, Secret Water on my shelves and intend to read it very soon.
The nautical terms, the knowledge of points of sail, the language aboard the boat, are all very accurate and there's a lot of it, which makes me wonder what it would be like to read as a non-sailor.
Lost by the constant reference to terms you didn't know, or would you just go with it, like you might if you were reading a technically accurate space story?
Were parents in the 30s really willing to let their kids go sailing for a weekend with an 18-year-old they'd never met?
I read this book again this weekend for three reasons: 1) I needed some fiction, 2) I have been in some tough weather scrapes recently with my little boat and 3) I wanted to remember how John and his siblings handled their weather situations.This is an amazing book.
The timeline for the story is only a handful of days and so the action ends up being quite intense.This is one of the stories in which we get a sense of John growing up as he takes charge, makes decisions and, in the end, has them all validated by those much more experienced than he.
But it's quite an epic struggle in which they're at real risk of death.Readers should be warned that this is a sea story written by a sailing enthusiast: non-sailors may find that the blow-by-blow account tells them more than they wanted to know about sailing.Also note before reading that it dates from 1937, so it's somewhat old-fashioned in general.
The world before the Second World War was significantly different from the world we know now.A story like this couldn't plausibly be set in modern times, because at least two of the children would have mobile phones, which would wreck the whole plot.
