https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16001893-down-to-you
This seems to be the “it” book of the moment and now I know why! Its a wonderful, addictive read that will have your heart fluttering, have you fanning yourself, with just the right amount of angst and a really cool twist... oh, and twins, REALLY HOT, panty-melting twins :)  (see casting pics above and below) “Did you think of my lips when he kissed you?… Do you still want me? Because if you do, I’m all yours.”  Hmmm, I’m getting ahead of myself here…. k, about the panty-melting twins. Olivia i
But not long after she moves, she meets Cash Davenport, the bike riding, club owning, seriously HOT, tattooed bad boy who wants her in his bed.
I like knowing who ends up with who right off the bat and I’m not fond of characters wavering back and forth but for whatever reason, maybe it was the great writing style, or the drool-worthy characters or what have you, I LOVED it in this book.
And you know, the funny thing about love triangle books is that usually, even if I like both guys, I always know which guy I want to end up being “THE” guy.
This book worked fine for that purpose.So the girl was throwing stones when she lived in a glass house.
Hot damn, that would have made for a great twin fantasy there.So you got the men mixed up on one dark and stormy night.
You'll save money on only having to switch one letter.So this was a short, steamy and entertaining little read.
I can't believe this was the same author who wrote a book that made me say FAIL.
The sex was scrumptious and who doesn't want to get lost for a night in a fantasy of being coveted by two hot, yet different twins?
Don't ask, just read.
Olivia and CASH Sitting in a treeK-I-S-S-I-N-GOlivia and NASHsitting in a treeK-I-S-S-I-N-G**SPOILER AHEAD** READ AT YOUR OWN RISKSo, OliviaCash or Nash?La-la-la-la-laOoh! Guess, what?They're one and the same.Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha!Well, fuck thatThis book is just LAME.
Grab your "oh shit" handle because this book starts off strong!
Well, the book was hot (like bend me over the bar hot) and entertaining with a strong plot, but nothing just made it really stand out for me.
I didn't want to know, but I knew.
From the start, I knew.
If I hadn't known, then knowing wouldn't have taken away from the story.
I didn't try to know and if I could have de-knowned, I would have.
I really did enjoy the book, but I needed not to know to make it great.
mY bRaIn Is dOinG cArtwhEels.You probably won't believe me, but I had a nice little wordy review lined up for you guys until that bastard of an ending.
I'm a freaking mess with my shift key and it's causing horrific levels of erroneous capitalisation (Is that a word?).So I'm a little slow sometimes (I'm sorry but no amount of coffee in my veins and Red Bull in my system could have made me get even close to guessing the wings this story was about to spout - pun intended).
I'm actually kind of kicking myself now that I scan the bulk of the reviews only to note that a common point made by most was that they had already guessed the twist halfway through.
Would you be able to choose?Holy.Smokes!I found a new author and I am in love!Olivia Townsend is just like any other girl trying to make something of her life.
Definitely not to twin brothers Nash and Cash Davenport.
Olivia finds herself instantly attracted not only to Nash, but Cash as well.
No way was I stopping with brothers like Nash and Cash!There are three point of views in this book, and trust me, it worked so well in this story.
Oh, how I'd be willing." -Olivia about Nash"Where did you get that dress?I stole it from a homeless person," I say straight-faced.
I’m not usually a graphic person, but I think this situation warrants it in order to illustrate my feelings.This is my heart This was my heart reading Down to You This book had my heart literally racing. I absolutely, unquestionably, wholeheartedly loved it! First, I need to point out a few things. 1. I LOATHE love triangles. 2. I do not like books written in the present tense 3. I hate cheating boyfriends and 4. I hate cliffhangers. Down to you has almost all of the above (one point is debatabl
I’d read other people mention a plot twist in their reviews and thought I had it figured out—Not. Even.
That’s usually why I hate triangles so much—I inevitably get pissed off at characters I should like because they make such stupid and selfish decisions.
I’d also like to mention that the cliff hanger in this book is not bad.
It’s not bad at all—well, it left me dying to read the next book, but I was satisfied where this book finished.I know I didn’t really say much in this review that tells you about the book, but I really don’t want to spoil it for anyone.
Then one night at a bachelorette party for her best friend at club Duel she meets Cash and her life as she knows it starts to change.
The second his eyes land on Olivia he knows he wants more.
He's also dating a girl who works at said law firm.
But after getting to know Olivia he loses focus.
"If you really want to see what effect you have on my snake, I'd be happy to show you." ~Olivia and Nash"How did you find me?""My brother.""No, I mean how did you know I was here?""Your father.""You went to my house?"She's obviously perturbed by this.
The heroine, Olivia, was my main issue.
I didn't enjoy the way she played both brothers.
Her so-to-speak bed-hopping and her disregard for Nash's relationship with her cousin—even though said cousin was a bitchy ice queen—made her character seem more slutty than endearing.
I truly don't believe her character was meant to be viewed that way!
Those two aspect, plus the editing issues, pretty much ruined my enjoyment of this book.
That said, I can see why many loved this story.
Plus, there's Cash!
Sexier than-all-get-out Cash!
He alone almost made me look past my issues.
:):)Il siparietto comico (?) si conclude qui, lui torna a lavoro e le party girls continuano a divertirsi sfrenatamete (ma non Liv, che pensa ancora al proprietario secsi e alla figuraccia appena fatta).Alla fine riesce a placarsi e a liquidare la cosa con una scrollata di spalle, ma quando il giorno dopo becca Miranda-la-cugina-stronzetta in atteggiamenti intimi con un tizio mezzo ignudo resta di sasso.
Scopa, scopa, scopa."Sì, perché ad un certo punto viene tirato in ballo questo ex fidanzato qui, per farci capire che lei e i "bad boy" non sono un'accoppiata pazzesca, che la fanno stare male e bla bla.
Down to You was a light, fun, sexy book and just what I needed after coming out of an incredibly dark read!
Olivia is a bartender/student who lands a job tending bar for the very sexy Cash Davenport.
To make matters even hotter, Cash has a twin brother Nash, to whom Olivia finds herself equally attracted.
The story's twist was a little predictable, but I didn't see it coming too early on.
Luckily, their physical connection was often hot enough to make up for any lack of depth within their relationship.Overall, I'd say this book excels in steam.
On my second attempt at reading this book, I am happy to report that I managed to finish it this time.
However, it wasn't exactly a thrilling reading experience for me.A few thougts.1.
I will admit that Cash and Nash had moments of hotness.
However, they all too often came off as rather stilted and one dimensional.2.
Although some of her snarky comments were amusing, i really did NOT like Olivia.
Like, at all.
Suffice it to say that it would have been impossible for me to truly love this book because of her annoying ass.3.
I love it when I have nothing but fun reading a book and that’s exactly what happened reading Down to You. This book is SEXY and smart, loaded with sexual tension, fun witty banter, and nice HOT spice!
I dare you not to have fun reading this!Cash and Nash are twins, they look exactly alike and are completely hot.
So, what I was saying is Cash and Nash are twins who are different in every way except for their attraction to Olivia.
So Olivia tries to stay away from both, with little success, of course.
I mean, I had several different theories of how this story was going to play out.
All I can say is that this book left me stunned, overheated, and wanting MORE!I'm going to go light on the character analysis, because that is such a huge part of the story.
Well, OK I will say this....there are some incredibly steamy, panty dropping, swoon-worthy moments.
Now, I know I've said this before, but I'll say it again...M. Leighton has one of the most creative minds.
This book will take you on a mind twisting ride for sure!
Nash is steady, dependable, loving considerate and she’s also deeply attracted to him and he fulfils her desire for someone a little safer after her disastrous experience with bad boys in the past.
Will she go with her resolution to find someone more dependable or will Cash be hot enough to make her forget her convictions?So, outrageous plot twist notwithstanding, I really very much enjoyed this book.
Author
I think I'll meditate over it a night before writing a full review, but I don't think it's going to get above a single star.Full review:This is one of those books I don't really want to write a review on, not because I'm being a sloth, or reluctant to share my opinion, but because honestly I really don't want to have to pull this book from my memory and reflect on how...odd this was.So you guys know about my weakness about reading stories about twins - yes, no, maybe so?
(Honestly I haven't learned from reading NA yet.
This book is PURE FANTASY!!
Cash and Nash (but especially Cash...WHO likes bad boys?
Cash is a bar owner bad boy who's sexy, slow smile and flirty ways draw Olivia like a moth to a flame.
He wants Olivia, and he intends to have her.
But Olivia is done getting her heart broken by bad boys.
She knows Cash is the love em and leave em type, and she tries (and fails) to run far, far away.In steps Nash...who's sitting in her kitchen with her beeyotch of a cousin...because they're together.
Problem is, Nash is what Olivia SHOULD want.
Cash and Nash are lip smacking good...pure decadent sexual fantasy, and I loved it!!
This book is like the most amazing candy you can imagine, you know it's not good for you but you can't resist.
Lol!I got a sudden craving for a love-triangle book and picked this up on a whim.
I was hooked immediately and stayed up way too long!
It made me wanna stay home from work and read all day today.
It's not really erotica but it was hotter than many erotica books!
*Fanning myself*Note: If you feel strongly about cheating this book might not be for you.
Nash is together with her cousin when they start flirting and he crosses the line.
Yo lo siento, pero no he entendido nada de este libro.Se ha desarrollado una situación, ha surgido un problema, y después el protagonista ha decidido olvidarlo.
Vale,que supongo que en el siguiente libro se desarrollará más y tal vez encuentre explicación a mi perplejidad; pero es que la autora lo ha hecho tan poco atractivo, que no me apetece leer el siguiente.No entiendo mucho las megavaloraciones de este libro.
Creo que es demasiado simple y no me ha atrapado nada como está escrito.
Le doy dos estrellas, porque al menos lo he terminado, que si no...No sé si seguiré con la serie, desde luego, ahora no...
Cash is a motorcycle riding bad boy who is extremely arrogant, and self assured and he is determined to have Olivia.This book has steamy sex scenes, lots of deception, lies, heartbreak, and a HUGE twist in Cash and Nash's story that will leave you wanting to read more!Cash is by far one of my favorite book boyfriends and this series is by far one of my all time favorites!
Right in front of Nash.Is there no end to my embarrassment with this guy?I'm thinking that as I try to right myself as quickly as possible.
Ooooooh myyyyyy GOOOOOOOOOD!  What a trip and a twist!I can not believe I did not read this sooner! I need to be punished... Perhaps on a 4wheeler, or against a shower wall, or on the hood of the car!  Olivia, while at a bachelorette, meets Cash at a club through the most delicious way I can think off... By undressing a stranger because of a simple misunderstanding. And what a hot piece to confuse for a stripper! “If he’s the stripper, then who are you?” “I’m Cash Davenport. I own the club.” Em
She is drawn to them both - Nash is intellectual and a future lawyer and Cash is a delicious, bad boy with layers.
Olivia knows what better choice is, from having an awful experience with a bad boy.
No matter how much Cash shows how he is not simply a bad boy, she still stuck in that same experience unwilling to move on and take a chance.
“You keep looking at me like that and you’re gonna have a big surprise to deal with when you get on this bike,” I tell her.“A big surprise?” she asks, a mischievous smile tugging at the corners of her mouth.
Loved the book :D Can't wait for the 2nd one..
Sexy Hot Hunk!!
Cutie with a sexy charm, Brains with BeautyOlivia, You smart thing..
haha but I'm smarter is all I can say :PLiv needs to live a little and stop worrying, but I love how she wants to take care of her father in about everything..
I love the book..
It had chemistry, romance, sizzle and humor :DCan't wait to see what happens in the 2nd book.
You’re dating a guy with two dicks?” “Ginger, no!
It’s about two different guys.” “Oh,” she says, obviously disappointed.
LORD.I am just gonna make this quick since I have to get started on the second book...Let the pictures below tell you how I feel while reading the book.So I started like this feeling allbecause everyone's raving about it.
Damn cliffhangers.I don't want to spoil too much or give out details per details of the book (other than the sex scenes are HOT AND AMAZING) izzz because I want y'all TO GRAB IT AND READ IT!!!
READ.
“I haven’t felt like I’ve had a real home in years.
You feel like home.
You’re my home now.
Olivia's in college working her way towards an accounting degree and working at a bar when she meets Cash, a club owner and obvious bad boy.
Imagine her surprise when she meets her cousin's boyfriend, Nash...that's right, Cash's twin....and the good boy but he's taken...or is he?
I think I smiled through this whole book...well, except maybe the Gollumesque epilogue.
I loved the banter...the flirting and teasing that went on between Olivia and Cash and Olivia and Nash.
I loved her wanting to be a good person and trying not to fall back on bad patterns.
Too bad she just can't help herself.I love both Cash and Nash.
OMG I need a Cigarette! Not only was the book seriously hot but I feel like my mind has been fucked as well! I have no idea how to review this book. I don’t know what I was expecting but it wasn’t this. All I can really share is the random thoughts that were running through my brain us this book, which I thought was going to be a  simple  erotic romance unfolded.We meet Cash- Hello Yummy!We meet Nash-Whoop! There are TWO of them!The book goes on a little-  Eh this book is OKOlivia (the MC) can’t
Not only was the book seriously hot but I feel like my mind has been fucked as well!
I have no idea how to review this book.
All I can really share is the random thoughts that were running through my brain us this book, which I thought was going to be a 
Secrets are revealed – And I think OMG is this guy off his meds?!
Maybe she should run for her life!But obviously he is far too sexy not to be forgiven And just when you think you have a happy ending the author messes with your mind again!
This book is super addictive and hard to put down.
Olivia finds herself in a quandary when she meets a guy she’s instantly attracted to, but won’t be dating because she’s done with bad boys, and then discovers her cousin is dating his twin, who seems to have the hots for her as well.
Nash and Cash look the same but are night and day in personality, and Olivia has personal issues from her past leaving her torn between what is right for her.
This is one of those scenarios that’s tricky to get right, someone torn between brothers, and here, it works.
And then roll her in salt water."Favorite Character - Cash I was really undecided whether or not to make this a 5 star review, for now it will stay a four but i think in a few months i will re-read this and see if that puts it up.
Now i will admit friday is my favorite day to read a dirty book because first it is filthy friday & second i normally get verrrry drunk on a friday.
4. A twist so huge that I seriously think that is enough reasons to make you go & buy this book but if you need more convincing go and read more reviews.
The next book already looks good!
Olivia is just your average college student, Marissa is her rich snobby cousin and flat mate.
Nash is Marissa's boyfriend and Cash owns the hot local nughtclub.
Nash and Cash are twins.
This book starts off oh so good.
Olivia's old flat mate has her hen party in this club and they have a stripper come in.
Olivia has to strip him down to nothing and her immediate attraction to this stranger scares her.
And who is this mysterious, attractive and smug stranger whos shirt Olivia's holding....
None other than Cash, owner of the club.
His hands are hungry and urgent as he grabs me around the waist and turns to lay me on the bed. We undress each other as though we’ve never made love, as though this is the first time and we can’t wait one more second to feel skin on skin.When he enters me , my whole world collapses . It melts and covers us as he moves within me , like a perfect crystalline cocoon .  Michelle Leighton rocks the adult contemporary scene with her first adult romance read !!! Phew , the lady definitely can write
Distraction 1 code name Cash Davenport ,the owner of a club and your typical yet not so typical bad boy .
Enters Distraction 2 code name Nash Davenport , Cash's twin brother .
He is what Olivia needs , a guy who is intelligent , good and respectable .
Its told from alternate POV's constantly switching from Olivia to Cash to Nash .
I love stories told from alternate POV's as they give readers more access to the character mindsets .
And I might have to say this proudly , I figured that out even before I started reading the story !!!!
