https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/498904.Wishcraft

I read this book MANY years ago, so I am commenting on that edition - don't know if she has changed it much in the years since. I hope not - it was excellent then.I am NOT a sucker for a good self-help book, but this takes a very practical approach to figuring out what is important to YOU and then figuring out how to make it happen.There's no navel-contemplating, no existential psycho-babble - just clear cut, real life ways to make things happen in your life.
Барбара Шер відкрила мені очі на п’ять речей: мотиваційна література може читатися легко і невимушено; запропоновані вправи можуть викликати не роздратування, а цікавість; історії успіху можуть вражати — і не справляти враження, що це повна фантастика; мрії (якщо вони не зовсім нереальні) таки можна здійснити, а для цього треба всього-навсього розписати чіткі маленькі кроки, і ними потихеньку рухатися.Мені дуже сподобався підхід Барбари Шер: спершу, з допомогою невеликих вправ (як от «Опишіть ваш ідеальний день» чи «Напишіть 20 улюблених занять») вона допомагає сформулювати свою глобальну мрію.
І, знову ж таки, на прикладі успішних історій зі своїх «груп успіху», в яких працює коучем, Барбара Шер дає практичні і універсальні рецепти, як знайти рішення останнього питання.
This book was recommended to me ages ago and I tried to read it then.
I think this was my third time, or maybe even my fourth attempt, to read this book.
In chapter 2 Sher asks a series of questions to help identify those experiences that may have disconnected the reader from their essential self and their most important desires.
After reading the first and second chapters this time I realized why this book doesn't click for me--I don't need it.
That is not to say I am better than those readers who love and highly recommend this book.
Sher's engaging voice reads like a wise, patient, and compassionate aunt who KNOWS you're brilliant and won't let you give up your dream for lack of good counsel.
Instead of banning fear or complaining, Sher honors them as important tools for realizing great goals.
The chapter "Barn-raising" is a brilliant study of the value of social capital.A few lines that reeled me in:"What I'm interested in is what you love.
Instead, they devoted their lives to equipping that child with the tools and skills it needed to do its playing on an adult level.""Before you can get what you need, you've got to take responsibility for knowing what you need.""Love your life.
I need to reread this and read any updates in the latest edition.
You will be prompted to consider many things and you will need to record them as well as any spontaneous memories which will help you mark a path for the future.A friend of mine (Ruth) in California told me years ago a friend of hers read it.
All these years later and I still have not yet implemented its lessons toward living a life I love.
Yes, past time to reread and do the work!
Эта книга начала помогать мне уже тогда, когда я прочла от силы 20% и помогала каждый раз, когда я её открывала. До нее я считала, что никогда не догадаюсь, чем реально хочу заниматься и так и буду грызть гранит того, что совершенно меня не воодушевляет. И думаю, что буду её перечитывать в будущем, потому что мечты и их реализация - это и есть жизнь.🤗
After reading this book you'll be busy building bridges to those long lost childhood dreams or to wildest fantasies in spite of fears and doubts.The book is well written and thoughtful.
Barbara gives you the sword and shield to help you slay these dragons, or at least how to walk around these monsters.This book resonated with me so much since I feel like this is a skill I was deprived of learning.
If I had learned this skill when a teenager or young adult, I shudder to think about where my life would be at now!
I mean, the fact that I read a self-help book is weird enough, but the fact that I enjoyed a self-help book--well, I think we must have stumbled into some kind of parallel universe.
Pretty sure doing so threw those universes out of whack.
It was referenced in a writing book about archetypes, and the title called to me.
Everyone, whether you're just starting down that path to what you love or you're well on your way, should give this book a quick read.
This woman had me at 'the power of negative thinking'.
The exercises are pretty awesome too.
One of the most underappreciated self help books ever written.
I really think everybody should read this book, instead of seeing a career or life coach!
Sher also provides tools for dealing with innate shortcomings you uncovered in Part One and facing the inevitable obstacles that arise as you dream up your great big goals.
Trust the process, you will gain a lot of clarity from this chapter.Part 3: Amazing tools on how to brainstorm, figure things out and find help.
In this chapter Sher helps you break down the seemingly impossible path toward your dreams and goals into gradual steps and actions.
If you have suddenly realized you need to change course and want to set up an action plan - read this!If for nothing else the book provides amazing tools for brainstorming sessions.
Though written and published in the late 1970s--as reflected by some of the "winner" language--Wishcraft: How to Get What You Really Want is still relevant and full of helpful techniques for all people who dream of a life more satisfying, and want to bring more of what they love into their currently lives rather than waiting for happiness to arrive sometimes in the distant, uncertain future.Admittedly, being a "Scanner" (see: Refuse to Choose!: Use All of Your Interests, Passions, and Hobbies to Create the Life and Career of Your Dreams) makes it hard to "settle" on one or two initial goals.
Не зважаючи на стійке переконання, що читання мотиваційної літератури - це безжалісне марнування часу, я таки взялась за цю книгу.
Можливо, так втілилось моє підсвідоме бажання зробити хоч щось для здійснення власних мрій, а не відкладати це до кращих часів.
Сучасна людина стикається з більшою кількістю викликів на шляху до мрії, ніж 40 років тому.
Особисто для себе я знайшла поради як боротися із страхом на початку роботи і багато корисних зауваг щодо стосунків та дружньої підтримки.
Загалом, приємна ретро-книга, що може стати першим кроком на шляху до власної мрії.
Але не забувайте, що для її здійснення лише прочитати книгу буде недостатньо.;)
I haven't finished this yet. Man I hate the cheesy sounding title and frankly I'm always a little embarrassed to post about these self-help books which again a lot of my friends look down on but this one is GREAT. Extremely practical. Really shows you how to create a road map, use your time better--the focus is not on changing yourself, feeling better about yourself, but on figuring out what you want than figuring out how to structure your time to get it. You have to really read this one for the concrete advice, not the inspiration.
this is a self-help book to help you find out what you want to do with your life. i'll say that this is one of the most important book's i've read and worked through in my life because it worked. i found out that i want to be an editor!!!!!
Bar none - this book is the BEST book on teaching you how to not only 'get what you really want', but how to figure out what it is that you really want!
Really almost the same book as her "I Could Do Anything If I Only Knew What It Was", but the advice in both books is worth reinforcing.
Absolutely fabulous book! I would recommend it to anyone who is "SEARCHING". Very different from any "self-help" genre book I've read!
Cand am inceput sa citesc "Wishcraft: How To Get What You Really Want" de Barbara Sher nu stiam ca aceasta carte a aparut pentru prima data in 1978 si mi-a creat impresia unei carti motivationala bine scrise, dar cu mai multe idei pe care le-am mai intalnit undeva.
In metoda sa pentru obtinerea succesului si a fericirii, autorul pune accent pe acceptarea individualitatii fiecarui om, dar si pe sprijinul din partea comunitatii (familie, vecini, colegi, etc.).
"Wishcraft: How To Get What You Really Want" de Barbara Sher a fost o lectura facila, placuta si utila.
If you're struggling to figure out your passion in life -- or how in the world to make it reality -- do yourself a favor and pick up this book.
For me, Wishcraft has been more than a book, it's been a friend.
Since then I've used my love-worn copy not only for my own reflection, but to lead mastermind groups an as a resource for clients starting their own businesses.When I need fresh inspiration, or just a reminder that I'm not alone on the entrepreneurial journey.
Barbara Sher's book is where I often turn.
Ця книга потрапила до мене завдяки проекту "Книжковий Санта" у грудні 2016. І тільки зараз я її прочитала. Це дійсно була книга з особистого розвитку, яку дійсно було цікаво читати. Барбара Шер в легкій формі розповідає, що здійснення мрії це не щось з області фантастики - помах магічною паличкою, а просто чіткі впевнені (а іноді й не дуже, що нормально) кроки до її здійснення. Класно, багато з того, що пропонує авторка, я вже взяла на озброєння :)
Truly a classic! How to get what you REALLY want - it is all about discovering your strengths and skills, then turning fears into positive tools, diagraming the path to the goal with target dates, chart progress daily, create a support network and use a buddy system. Karen Briscoe, author "Success in 5 Minutes a Day!
This book helped me a lot! I kinda knew what I rally wanted but with this book and all the exercises I could make a plan! the second part wasn't that important to me as I didn't have a bunch of people that could help me. But even alone I feel like I can really achieve my goals now! planning is everything!
Fake it till you get used to it or "fake it till make it" ( as we all know) one of my favourite message in this book, and something that really helps (at least for me). I can't say I found something particularly new for myself,, but this book definitely gave some piece of inspiration. Also, I like the style of writing and its easy to read. So,,, my 4 stars
The book is very interactive. It requires a lot of time for self-reflection but it is worth it. Barbara proposes an easy structure describing every step you need to take to achieve your goal. 'Having a structure makes it a lot likier that you will act!''Do it right, do it wrong but do it'
Clear, very practical, and warm.
One of my favourite books of all time!!
This book was very helpful for me. I'm glad that I was read it in complicated time in my life. And it works!
Това е най - позитивната книга,която съм държала в ръце! Авторката определено ме спечели със стила си!Тази книга е много извън зоната ми на комфорт и честно казано не очаквах да ми хареса!
