https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/801754.The_Decline_of_the_West
Liked this book so much I quit drinking for a month
All genuine historical work is philosophy, unless it is mere ant-industry. Gibbon’s Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire is one of my favorite books, not only because it is written so beautifully, but because of the spectacle of decline—of a great empire slowly and inevitably crumbling. The scene is irresistibly tragic. Like a Macbeth or an Oedipus, the Empire succumbs to itself, brought down by its own efforts at self-expansion. Or perhaps the scene can be better compared to the Fall of Man in
Spengler divides up world history, not into countries or epochs, but into “Cultures.” There have been only eight: the Egyptian, the Babylonian, the Meso-American, the Chinese, the Indian, the Classical (Greco-Roman), the Arabian (includes the Byzantine), and the Western (European culture, beginning around the year 1000).
Their art, their mathematics, their architecture, their experience of nature, their whole mental world is grounded in one specific cultural worldview.Because Spengler is a determinist, he does not present us with a Gibbonian spectacle of a civilization succumbing to its own faults, struggling against its own decline.
It should be read if for no other reason than the stimulation it provides, for it is difficult to imagine that there exists a reader who would not emerge at the end having found himself been given much to reflect upon—even those predisposed to flatly disagree—or take issue—with Spengler's conclusions.Proceeding in a somewhat Hegelian fashion, Spengler posits an interpretation of history that has eluded all others, principally due to their being hampered by the conditions of the Civilization they live within.
However, Spengler did not mean this in the completely apocalyptic Christian sense, but instead termed it the “wintertime of Faustian civilization.” In admittedly fascinating and frequently beautiful (if problematically rather mystical) language, Spengler divides space and time amongst dominant Cultures, which are definite entities with specific, distinct underlying motivations and perceptions of the world that differentiate each entity from the others.
Well, that’s probably just because of your Culture’s shaping of you and the fact that you inevitably can’t- perhaps it is due to your Faustian need to beat a theory you can’t possibly prove wrong.Spengler’s theories rely on several underlying assumptions that are still prevalent and frequently acted upon in our present age, and the different inferences that have been drawn from ideas similar to his have supported different conclusions that I see in my reading quite often.
(he has similar examples from all over the world - his argument for Russia being culturally part of Asia rather than Europe is intriguing) Such an era can be characterized by increased globalization both political and economic, the declining influence of old aristocracies in favour of ascendant merchant classes and populist ideologies, the arts turning into increasingly crass and exaggerated takes on old archetypes as well as the simultaneous secularization of society and the rise of reactionary extremist religious movements.Here comes the part about how Spengler has something to offend everyone: Conservatives can clutch their pearls over his description of every aspect of modernity they dislike as inevitable and irreversible, libertarians can get indignated over his diagnosis of parliamentary democratic states as inherently plutocratic and short-lived with authoritarian collectivism being the default state of human society, likewise can socialists get offended over his presentation of a strong hierarchial structure as necessary to run an efficient and stable society.I have to say that I might only have found Spengler's argumentation for his odd worldview so persuasive because my grasp on the social sciences is rather basic at best and downright superficial at worst...
The West, Spengler claims, has reached just this point.One of the most refreshing aspects of this book is Spengler's insistence that we recognize the tremendous achievements of all the world's great civilizations, not just those of Western civilization.
Spengler is, in essence, a cultural relativist who sees greatness in the inner destiny pursued by all of the world's cultures, and though they all must decline and die, every culture possesses a tragic grandeur that is worthy of admiration.Some of the most engrossing portions of Decline are, to me, the sections in which Spengler articulates his ideas on how space has been interpreted by various civilizations.
One could just as easily be a Nationalist, or exclusive Patriot, or ignorant of history and philosophy thus thinking this book was erudite, or curious to look at what was prevalent in 1920ish Germany and how the Germans were more than happy to soon embrace a monster for their leader.
The greatest book written in the 20th century. Nobody can really call themselves well-read if they haven't read this.
Each of these three cultures/civilizations has its own "prime symbol," a sort of fundamental stuff out of which all the other symbol elements of the cultural sphere refer back to (oh yeah, he's a crazy-ass German idealist, however much he may speak of " blood" and "facts" trumping reason and ideas; meaning, he believes that all reality is basically a wholly culturally contained array of symbols that are to be understood vis-a-vis the "prime symbol" (the "physiognomic" method as opposed to, you know, your typical abstract system of reason).
Everybody with even the slightest interest in History must read this. It`s one of the most influental book of the last century, and one of the most original History book ever written. You might love it, you might hate it, but you must read it.
Everybody with even the slightest interest in History must read this. It`s one of the most influental book of the last century, and one of the most original History book ever written. You might love it, you might hate it, but you must read it.
We need to kick clear and bask forth in our great sense of overwhelming factorama, where the pursuit and claiming of another coloured Trivial Pursuit cheese that is ‘knowingness’ is the proof of our ongoing ascent into Elysium [not his exact words].And he is both a little right and very wrong.While it is certainly true that more people know trivial things than ever before, less and less people know anything more deep than the apparent rock&roll complexity of a comic book character with claws and related badassery.
Spengler spends plenty of time comparing the world-pictures of various identifiable Cultures, most particularly the Classical, the Magian and the Western.
Spengler is the single most self-aware Westerner who ever lived, penetrating more deeply than anyone into the core of the unique psychology of Western Man. His process of differentiating between Classical and Western Man as well as Western Man and "Magian" Man ("Magian" Spengler's term for the religious ethos of the Middle-East) really make you feel, in your very blood and bones, how as a Westerner, you are a unique being with a way of looking at the world that is utterly without precedent and thoroughly exciting.Days after opening this book I could feel the Spenglerian thought-system refining my mind, and it is hard not to see the world from a Spenglerian lens after reading it.
I was a Spengler guy before I'd even heard of Spengler and my first read of this last year only confirmed it.* Re-reading this and tried it on the free Kindle edition - filled with odd formatting, typos, errors, and even missing sections. If you pay attention, you can make out what is being explained but be forewarned, it's not pretty; switching back to my trusty paperback. Sloppiness aside, the Kindle edition still is, however, FREE. There is also another Kindle edition for sale, which I assume does not contain the monstrous errors.
Rapidly becoming one of my favorite books both in prose and in subject matter. Truly a learned mind exploding into powerful allegories on almost every page, limitless in scope and made more poignant by the fact that is was published in the era of the Versailles Treaty, wracked with national demoralization and the smell of revolution (or senseless violence) in the air. And this is only the abridged version! From epistelomology to philosophy to the arts and the final cynical commentary on the state of post-war world politics.
Oswald Spengler was one of the world's greatest authors--I can reread'over and over again passages just for the visuals. Not for everyone though, especially not the Englishspeaking mind, which tends to visualize in snapshots rather than motion picture. More than history and philosophy, it is also a glimpse into a different way to think and think about things. A masterpiece, comparable to the Barberini Faun.
The rare honest conservative intellectual. Spengler explores the factors that make all cultures unique. The decline of the west he speaks of needs not be a negative one, but a simple passage in the narrative of history. It is a shame his work was appropriated by fascists, but it serves as a very useful insight into the state of culture and globalization at the time.
A masterpiece of 20th century philosophy & sociology. Clearly influenced by the thought of Nietzsche; Spengler provides a timeless classic with affluent historical background of Europe and the Western world, since the Greek and Roman times. 8 decades after its publication, this book is still very relevant to the contemporary world arena. A must.
Influenced by Nietzsche and Goethe, what is proposed is "a grand politics" or "a philosophy of becoming" which is said to be in decline in the face of the welfare state of mind.
Spengler's discussion of socialism as at its best not an economic movement but "civilization-ethics" and his criteria for evaluating statesmen and state formation are outstanding, sober, and co-exist uneasily next to an otherwise mystical discourse which nevertheless would be rewarding to those in particular who like studies of comparative religion and art criticism.
Read the abridged version (sorry Oswald) as the full two volume original will kill you.
I cannot even begin to consider reviewing this amazing work (a) because I am in fact still reading it (the abridged version, albeit with the two volume english translation pdf net version online to reference) and (b) because it is the work of a mind so obviously superior to anything I can even imagine.
How Spengler was never taught in my politics classes at Uni I will never know....but then come to think of it....it probably would have blown my mind back then.If I have one more goal in life, it is to read the full original version.....then maybe I'll check into the nursing home.
In our current age of science mania, people seem to think that history and the social sciences are completely objective endeavors, and worse, that they are sciences.Spengler serves up a view of history that is deep, thought-provoking and awe-inspiring.
If I remember correctly - as its been a few years since I read it - he sets out on the premise that a historical study should not be measured on its 'truth' - since 'truth' is culturally biased and not a black-and-white thing - but rather on its depth of insight.
After reading Spengler, just thinking about Ancient Greece will set your mind turning for hours on end.
A grandiose masterpiece. The last poetic monument of german philosophy (Heidegger who?). The fact academics are marginalizing him proves he can be pretty right; it's only about how unpleasant for them and their blind sleepy holy scientific views is what he's writing. ...This book is in need to be read very actively several times in order to access an abundance of implications this masterpiece can offer. Spengler is always topical, maybe today more then ever. His shadow is upon us.
Spengler's organic theory of history. One of the most important books I've ever read. Theory in a nutshell: cultures, like any organism, have births, lives, and deaths. Spengler argues that Western civilization has entered the death throes.
This massive treatise is quite tendentious, as many critics point out. But the magnificence of the undertaking as well as the encyclopedic knowledge of history contained herein, make this 2-part opus a monumental achievement.
This is an abridged version, but read it several years ago, and it did a fair job in presenting this intellectual Giant, to the massess of the twenty-first century.It definitely is a good read.
But the great histories and historians of World History bring us far more than events of nations, chronicles of the Rise and Fall of Civilizations, or lessons and precedents from the past; they also constitute a fundamental part of World Literature, bringing us great reading experiences and exciting sagas as in Thucydides' "History of the Peloponesian War," in-depth portraits and readings of the character of great men and shapers of the world as in Plutarch's "Parallel Lives" and China's "Records of the Grand Historian" by Si Ma Chen, and deep philosophical and scientific insights into the workings of human society its environment as revealed in the panoramic visions of great Islamic historian Ibn Khaldun, Karl Marx, Oswald Spengler and Sir Arnold Toynbee.
It’s impossible to review this monumental work in its entirety, as Spengler deals with such a vast array of ideas that one could use it as a reference for a myriad of studies on world history.It's a pity no one followed in his footsteps to do just that.
Most of Spengler's attention is spent on the in-depth study of them.This is no cheap “Blut und Boden”, since it’s the land itself being the true spell caster over the cultures their respective world-views.
Adorno claimed Spengler was wrong for having predicted the end of Western civilization as he was writing long after the book in a post-WW II world where capitalism goes on unceasingly.
Spengler is an astute observer of long-term historical trends, but his attempts to squeeze these observations into the framework of his system don't always hold up to close scrutiny. Yet they do more often than I had expected they would. Whatever the case, later historians and political scientists given to grand systematizing—your Braudels, your Quigleys, your Huntingtons, your Barzuns, your Fukuyamas, your Fergusons—owe Spengler a debt of gratitude (whether they agree with his views or not), if only because he made the educated public more receptive to this kind of bold and ambitious theorizing.
Oh Oswald, you are so convincing in your delivery of the sad news. His basic Idea is that Civilizations are organic beings that follow a standard life cycle, showing the same traits and characteristics, even the same actions. It's a wonderful way to think about history, twists everything into new perspectives.
I`m not 100% convinced with Spengler`s conclusions but the method he propose is worthing all the money. Otherwise the idea that history repeats itself wouldn`t worth a dime.
I`m not 100% convinced with Spengler`s conclusions but the method he propose is worthing all the money. Otherwise the idea that history repeats itself wouldn`t worth a dime.
Hij herschrijft zowat de hele (cultuur-)geschiedenis van de mensheid met als grondgedachte dat die niet rechtlijnig verloopt van, zeg maar, 1500 v.C. tot vandaag, of van de oude Indiase cultuur, via de Antieke en de Arabische, tot de Westerse cultuur die vandaag op haar laatste pootjes loopt en binnen de 200 jaar haar ondergang zou beleven.
Toch ga je al gauw twijfelen aan de wetenschappelijkheid van zijn wervelende theorieën.Dat hebben trouwens heel wat historici en filosofen ook gedaan, al van bij het eerste verschijnen honderd jaar geleden.
Wat in elk geval wel klopt, is dat de nazi’s getracht hebben hem te recupereren, maar Spengler heeft zich daarop gedistantieerd van Hitler in wie hij niet geloofde.
