https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1492247.Stowaway_To_Mars
Hätten wir diese Überzeugung nicht, würden wir uns auf dieses Unternehmen nicht einlassen."Armstrong schätzte 1969 die Chance auf ein Gelingen der Mission auf 50 Prozent, die auf eine gesunde Rückkehr jedoch höher, und diese Prognose reichte ihm.Wyndhams 1936 erschienener Roman PLANET PLANE (der dann 1937 als Fortsetzungsroman unter dem bekannteren Titel STOWAWAY TO MARS erschien) ist kein für seine Zeit typischer Pulp-Roman, sondern wird in dem für Wyndham typischen Stil sachlich und größtenteils unaufgeregt erzählt.
As Joan herself puts it, "I'm prepared to forget for twelve weeks that I'm a woman; why can't they do the same?" I do not think, as other reviewers have suggested, that this book is sexist - though its characters are undeniably so.
The story's attempts in these final chapters to explore the nature of sentience are less successful than might have been hoped.Despite these shortcomings, Stowaway to Mars remains a fantastic read and far exceeded my expectations (surely Wyndham could have come up with a better name for this book?
Reading a John Wyndham novel has never left me disappointed, but before reading ‘Stowaway to Mars’ I was made aware that it had a much lower rating than some of his better known books such as ‘Day of the Triffids’, ‘Chrysalids’ and ‘The Kraken Wakes’.
In fact some of the outright sexist remarks gave me the best laughs I’ve ever had from a Wyndham novel.
That being said, I did think the story touched on two fundamental points that were, I’m sure, highly pioneering for the time.
This wets the appetite for more intrigue and competition between the different parties trying to reach Mars for the Keuntz prize but the reveal of the stowaway after the rocket has launched fails to deliver on this earlier set up.Admittedly the stowaway introduces an interesting new theme and hints to what the crew of the Gloria Mundi will find on Mars but there's no reason these two elements couldn't have been combined and the novel would have had a stronger plot if they had been.
Wellllll, kinda pulp-y, which I don't mind, but not my fave. Interesting example of sci-fi from this era. This author definitely specialized in the "creep-me-out" genre more, so check out his other, horror stuff first.
We are only followers in a great tradition, hoping to tread the way of knowledge a little farther than the last man.
It’ll be fascinating to read all the stories based on his point of view (with writing style is like other Wyndham).
As evolved as they were depicted, Wyndham described them based on people of the Earth.
The most sensible person was only Joan (minus the affair and drama obviously).It’s also interesting how machine was told.
It’s written in the 30s and Wyndham wrote such an astounding tale regarding men and machine, which somehow is so true.
3.5/5 STARSA classic sci-fi about life beyond our world!This was a fun and fast-paced read! It was full of excitement, drama, robots and aliens. It's a good introduction to the genre. It even had its moments of philosophy questioning why we use and fear technology. and better yesterday it opens up the question of how far could technology potentially go. With all of these elements, it strongly reminded me of Star Trek. It was definitely an entertaining read.Now mind you it's definitely not perfec
3.5/5 STARSA classic sci-fi about life beyond our world!This was a fun and fast-paced read!
It even had its moments​ of philosophy questioning why we use and fear technology.
and better yesterday it opens up the question of how far could technology potentially go.
It was definitely an entertaining read.Now mind you it's definitely not perfect.
But if you're willing to look past it, you'll find enjoyment in reading it like any other classic.
I liked it, but I didn't love it.
I think there are some much better Wyndham books out there but it's still a quick and pleasurable read.

This is one of Wyndhams earlier and lesser known works, written in the 1930's.
The novel is set in 1981 but has the scientific and cultural aspects of when it was written.
As such some of the cultural references may come across as outdated and possibly offensive to some tastes.
Still the book is of the time it was written.
Much of the story seems to discuss the interactions of machines and humans, possibly foretelling the rise of AI?
This novel does not match the quality of Wyndhams later books such as Day of the Triffids or the Kraken Wakes but is interesting example of early Sci-fi.
I enjoyed the writing style, but the book felt like an excuse for the author to explore some ideas through the characters dialogue, which became rather dull. Dialogue at the expense of story here, with not much science fiction (or so it seems from todays perspective).
Early Wyndham, and it shows. The ideas and concepts are good, but it seems a little on the pulp side of the sci-fi house. Whyndham is refining his style here. Worth reading if you want to see his development as a writer.
3.5 Definitely an interesting and fun story to read.
A decent story that went a little awry once we reached Mars. Probably one for the avid Wyndham fans only.
Not the greatest Wyndham but diverting enough for fans.
http://gnomeship.blogspot.com/2017/02...
I'm very disappointed. John Wyndham's “Stowaway to Mars” (aka “Planet Plane”) seemed to have great potential to be an energetic genre piece, but it squandered every bit of it on half-baked speculations and endless dialogue.  I'm all for dated science fiction, but this book is all about the far future of 1981 in which everybody still pretty much acts like it's 1935, technology isn't all that impressive as yet, and sexism is in full swing. A lot is made of women feeling jealous of machines since I
John Wyndham's “Stowaway to Mars” (aka “Planet Plane”) seemed to have great potential to be an energetic genre piece, but it squandered every bit of it on half-baked speculations and endless dialogue.
I'm all for dated science fiction, but this book is all about the far future of 1981 in which everybody still pretty much acts like it's 1935, technology isn't all that impressive as yet, and sexism is in full swing.
I don't think the book is meant to be a downer or anything, but it takes a surprisingly unimaginative view of the future in which little has been accomplished.
Κλασικό παλπ μυθιστόρημα επιστημονικής φαντασίας της δεκαετίας του '30, που δείχνει τα χρονάκια του, χωρίς να είναι κακό αλλά μάλλον μέτριο.
Τέλος πάντων, οι ταξιδιώτες φτάνουν στον Άρη, βλέπουν κάτι μηχανές και διάφορα άλλα πράγματα και μετά από λίγες περιπέτειες, γυρίζουν πίσω στη Γη.
Γενικά το βιβλίο δεν είχε πολλή περιπέτεια, οι χαρακτήρες δεν είχαν και πολύ βάθος ούτε μπορώ να πω ότι συμπάθησα κανέναν, οι διάλογοι μερικές φορές θύμιζαν διαλέξεις και ήταν κάπως μεγάλοι, οι διάφορες μηχανές που περιγράφονταν μου θύμισαν παλπ ταινίες ΕΦ της δεκαετίας του '50 ή του '60 με τα μικρής ποιότητας εφέ, καταλάβατε.
Τέλος πάντων, κλασικό έργο για το είδος του, αλλά με μέτρια αποτελέσματα.
As such, it falls foul of many of the weaknesses of that genre - stereotyped characters (the silent Scotsman, the English man of action, the young naïve everyman, the avuncular medic, the loquacious journalist and the fainting female), sexism and sex appeal, and (not wanting to break a run of sibilance) the sinister Soviets.If you love Wyndham's later work and can look past the flaws of this period piece, it's possibly worth a look, but even then its ideas are probably better expressed in the classic works it references with abandon (Wells, Verne and the like) and Wyndham's more mature writings.
I must admit that most of the books I read are fairly recent publications so it was interesting to read Stowaway To Mars that came out in 1936.I am quite keen on sci fi and fantasy so the blurb appealed to me.
The book can easily be read in a day but I found myself leaving days in between reading so it took a while to finish it.
Once the ship lands on Mars the story does get a little ridiculous but I was still keen to find out how it ended.
Not only is Joan (the stowaway) a victim of multiple attempted sexual assaults, which very few of the other characters appear to take seriously, but she amounts only to a character who is rescued by martians and over the course of two days falls in love with and is impregnated by one, only to die in childbirth nine months later while her son lives.
Also, I still can't get a statement from the beginning of the book out of my head: Curtance suggests to his wife that her insistence on him only building rockets for other people is 'like giving birth to one stillborn child after another', a comment for which he is only mildly rebuked.
Wyndham (1903-1969) wrote a number of incredibly famous and influential science fiction novels, including two that have been adapted for screen several times: The Day of the Triffids (1951) and The Midwitch Cuckoos (1957).
One of his other novels, The Kraken Wakes (1953), is in my opinion a neglected classic that has wandered in and out of print and even his last novel, Web (1979), is surprisingly charming.I recently decided to explore the beginning of his writing career, and I ordered a copy of his second science fiction novel, and third published novel overall, Stowaway to Mars, originally published as Planet Plane (1936) under Wyndham’s pen name John Benyon.Read the whole review.
"The English man of action amazes me.
He has the unique gift of living simultaneously in the twentieth and seventeenth centuries.
I admire the little details in science fiction works that creep through the ages - The BBC changing a camera lens on air, for instance, anachronistic today yet feasible at the time.Yet for all the history and ways in which we've outstripped that era technologically, the message of the work rings through.
It's worth reading, if just for that - the Martians and their attitude is one we could learn from, if only to accept it.
No matter how men may have thought about women at the time he wrote the, I am shocked at the outrageous stereotyping of the female of the species.
Aside that and the material of course being about Mars a planet we now know quite well the book is good and has an interesting discussion on the nature of machines.
Long before the computer explosion had taken place he talks of intelligent, independent machines and in some ways describes 'The Singularity' being talked of today.In other words, it's worth a read if you have the opportunity but unless you're a hard-core Wyndham fan you needn't seek it out.
In celebration of the 50th anniversary of the first human spaceflight, I decided to read this novel, written by one of my favourite sci-fi authors.
What I found most interesting was that it was written in 1935, and John Wyndham's imagination took him to the future: 1981.
He saw us as making leaps and bounds in space travel (though somehow, couldn't imagine the feminist movement - only baby making for these modern women!).I've been spoiled by "modern" novels, always being surprised and thrilled.
I may not have been thrilled, but I was certainly intrigued by the novelty of Mars, as imagined before scientific certainty.
Mars has canals, the men have hunting rifles and the women faint.
Only the machines sound interesting, and they in the end are pointless.
And no, I'm not trying to be funny...I know it was written in the 30's.
It has a handful of plot devices that could really take the book places, and I bet in it's time a lot of those ideas were fresh and innovative.
I could live with the canals, but there's only two characters that aren't complete cardboard cut outs and even they wander from stereotype to stereotype from start to finish.
The rest of it just doesn't go anywhere interesting.Feel free to skip this one.
Title is pretty self-explanatory. After being really impressed by The Day of the Triffids, then underwhelmed by Trouble with Lichen, I was glad that this was as good as it was, so Wyndham wasn't just a one-book-wonder. Now to go out and find the rest of his work...
The first manned mission to Mars has a female stowaway, determined to prove her father's theory about sentient machines form Mars (one of which came to Earth earlier). Mars proves to have sentient machines and a dying out humanoid population. Rather flat, this book also does not really seem to know what it is trying to accomplish; its plot and tone wander.
Yes, really interesting Pulp Fiction Sci-Fi (way before the various 1950 Amazing Tales era).And many years before writing Day Of The Triffids.
Ένα συμπαθητικό μεν αλλά παλιομοδίτικο και ξεπερασμένο μυθιστόρημα επιστημονικής φαντασίας
Excellent.
