https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10238.The_Tao_of_Physics
Don't look to Capra for a highly disciplined discourse on particle physics or the nature of cosmology.
And a Medical Doctor like Dr. Robert Lanza or a New Age/Alternative Medicine guru like Depak Chopra is not a particle physicist.
It's very true that weird, seemingly mystical things do go on at the tiny scale of the atom where quantum physics operates.
It is NOT true, however, that you can scale that quantum weirdness up to the macro level where human beings, planets, galaxies and universes operate, and draw realistic inferences on the parallels between the macro world and Eastern mysticism.
This collection of quotes does indeed give an excellent picture of the foundation that Eastern mysticism has to offer for science, but is it even possible to think that this view of the world constitutes fertile soil for the scientific enterprise?A striking feature of many of Capra's central arguments is the profound gulf between his premises and his conclusions, which would be simply laughable if it were not for the fact that so many people stand to be badly led astray.
Having said that, I really liked this book.
As the book title itself states it's about drawing parallels between modern physics and eastern beliefs.
It gives a nice overview on eastern cultures and on those physical phenomena that can be linked to them.
I thought it a really interestingly mind–blowing idea I then discovered being already largely discussed in the physics world, with a lot of actual physicists having studied eastern philosophies and all.
I would recommend it to anyone who is always been curious of eastern cultures but never fulfilled that curiosity.
Δεν περιλαμβάνονται μαθηματικά, οπότε τα κεφάλαια της φυσικής μπορεί να τα διαβάσει και να τα κατανοήσει ο καθένας, οι των θετικών σπουδών φυσικά θα τα βρουν πιο εύκολα.Το βασικό αξίωμα του βιβλίου είναι ότι με βάση τη κβαντομηχανική και την κατάρρευση της αιτιότητας, πλέον το καθετί γίνεται αντιληπτό μέσα από την αλληλεπίδρασή του με το Σύμπαν.
Κάθε υποατομικό σωματίδιο είναι ένας ενεργειακός χορός, σαν αυτό που χορεύουν διαρκώς ο Κρίσνα, ο Βούδας και οι λοιποί θεοί, οι οποίοι είναι ένας θεός, με διαφορετικές εκφάνσεις – εμφανίσεις κάθε φορά (ας με συγχωρέσουν οι οπαδοί των θρησκειών αυτών, το βιβλίο το διάβασα πριν πολλά χρόνια και δεν θυμάμαι καλά τις διδαχές των θρησκειών).
I went in to reading 'The Tao fo Physics' expecting to find something that correlated elements of quantum mechanics to the insights of Eastern mysticism and philosophy (which I feel was a reasonable expectation).
Ironically, the one thing I really do feel Eastern mysticism and physics have in common are that both demand that if you seek more knowledge, you must always question everything and through this incessant questioning, you begin to gain understanding.
Capra is not good at explaining physics, Eastern mysticism, and certainly not the link between the two.
Not entirely sure how to take this book. Will come back to it after updating myself on the latest developments.
What is harder to understand is that the book has now gone through several editions, and in each of them Capra has left intact the now out-of-date physics, including new forewords and afterwords that with a straight face deny what has happened.
In the first half of the book Capra simply discusses the similarities in thought between these two distinctly different ways of thinking - an intuitive and 'spiritual' way contra the empirical and rational way of science.
For the most part in this book Capra is simply looking at the interesting similarities between these two ways of thinking - and they are striking.
This book bridged a major divide in my perception of the world, bringing together ideas of Quantum Physics and Eastern Mysticism.
Capra, trained in both disciplines, does a fine job comparing quotes and emerging universal perceptions of the early pioneers in quantum physics, against philosophers and yogis of the ancient religions of the East.
In a beautiful way, you come to discover that each of these disparate disciplines are somehow describing the universe through strikingly similar metaphors.
Its not too sci-techy for the average reader, and further gives a great overview of the major Eastern religions, their early founders and principles they are based off.
Throughout the whole book there is hardly a single reference to taoism, and certainly no understanding of taoism and its relation to other asian religions.The great majority of the spiritual/religious references in this book are from Indian Buddhism and Hinduism.
I think I found one interesting idea in this whole book, the physics concept of bootstrapping, which took up no more than one or two sentences and a footnote.If you are really interested in learning how taoism, or asian mysticism in general, relates to modern concepts in physics, the Dancing Wu Li Masters by Gary Zukav is much much better.
A book that fundamentally changed the way I felt and thought deep down inside at a time of my life when I needed some sort of metaphysical path.When you strip away the mathematics from the concepts of quantum mechanics and strong theory, etc., you get a bewildering array of thought-provking images that conjure up those posed by the best koans that Zen has to offer. Eastern mysticism meets modern physics.You will understand that everything is connected.
This book sketches out some of those parallels.The most important characteristic of the Eastern world view - one could almost say the essence of it - is the awareness of the unity and mutual interrelation of all things and events, the experience of all phenomena in the world as manifestations of a basic oneness.
...Quantum theory forces us to see the universe not as a collection of physical objects, but rather as a complicated web of relations between the various parts of a unified whole.
However, the parallels of some of its theories with modern science indeed make me question, "How did they know, then?"
I thought the way the two were tied together was in all reality, weak.However, having said this, I liked the book for two main reasons: 1- I'm fascinated by quantum physics (even though I have no formal education) and I'm always looking for books that explain it in simpler terms to me.
I'll stop here as I don't want to preach; I'll just say I recommend this book to people like me, who are spiritual, but also appreciate the rational science behind the 'mystique.' I like the balance between the two.Those who are not spiritual in any way; who only believe in that which can be proven with rigid scientific experiments probably need to stay away from this book.
Идея интересная, стиль написания не обрадовал.
Eastern philosophy is not a singular concept - it consists of many schools of thought; some of which the author has conveniently cherry-picked and force fit to draw parallels with Quantum Physics.To be quite frank, the book neither has literary merit, nor does it present any groundbreakingly profound idea.
The only merit in the book, if one is to force himself to find one, is to see how an author can paraphrase a simple idea again and again, hiding it under the guise of different metaphors and clothing it in different phrases, and make a whole book out of it.
Only when there is stillness in movement can the spiritual rhythm appear which pervades heaven and earth-	Taoist textChapter 14 – Emptiness and FormWe may therefore regard matter as being constituted by the regions of space in which the field is extremely intense .....There is no place in this new kind of physics both for the field and matter, for the field is the only reality-	Albert EinsteinThe Great Void cannot but consist of ch’i; this ch’i cannot but condense to form all things; and these things cannot but become dispersed so as to form (once more) the Great Void-	Chang TsaiChapter 15 – The Cosmic DanceHis gestures wild and full of grace, precipitate the cosmic illusion; his flying arms and legs and the swaying of his torso produce- indeed, they are- the continuous creation-destruction of the universe, death exactly balancing birth, annihilation the end of every coming-forth-	Heinrich Zimmer, on the Dance of ShivaChapter 16 – Quark Symmetries – A New Koan?The discovery of symmetric patterns in the particle world has led many physicists to believe that these patterns reflect the fundamental laws of nature.
Instead I will take into account the central idea of the book which is that everything is connected and trying to take apart these connections and study them individually as science does is frustrating and to a large extent a fruitless endeavor since we can't explain the connection of everything to everything else.My conclusion from reading this book is that Science and Religion, it seems to me, are both man-made concepts as well as Language.
And the truth is that both science and religion know that there are things that cannot be put into words.
That may be my fault, not the author's, but so be it.I was wading through another treatise on quantum physics and relativity at the same, Paul Davie's "The Goldilocks Enigma: Why is the Universe Just Right for Life?" I will write a separate review for this book eventually.
Quoting Dr. Davies: "The history of philosophy is so rich and diverse that it would be astonishing if theories emerging from science hadn't been foreshadowed in some vague way by somebody"That just about sums up my conclusions about Capra's conclusions.
Nothing more than vague foreshadowing.
The last section discusses the laws of Newtonian physics, and how the reality experienced through classical principles has changed after the discovery of relativistic and quantum physics.
Relativistic physics also treats gravity as a manifestation of matter curving spacetime in its vicinity, and it also showed that mass is a form of energy and hence it can not be viewed as a static object but a dynamic existence.
The wave - particle dualism of quantum physics, motions doesn't have paths, existence is reduced to probabilities, and the unification of space and time in relativistic physics implies a highly dynamic interaction with matter wherein all fundamental concepts of reality is interwoven into one reality.
This objective of the book was what caught my attention – that the author sets out to prove that an exacting discipline like Physics can have parallels with religious experiences.
It is from here that things get stale, the author flies off to his own pet parallels and offers fantastic theories.
For want of a better analogy, Capra pulls of a passably good Malcolm Gladwell – seemingly brilliant theories, fantastic examples and yet no chances to refute them in the examples that he quotes.
In some ways I agree that there are a number of parallels at least in the modality of viewing the world through the eyes of the eastern believer and the modern day physicist.
Though I do think that there are a lot of similarities in different eastern traditions and ways of thought I don't know if it strengthens the authors case to be flitting about between different philosophies in some cases which contradict each other, when there is often left to be much in terms of personal interpretation of these individual philosophies.
I think what the author is trying to get at is the overall perspective of modern day physics is somehow aligning with what is already "known" in eastern religions.
Similar to how I felt with  The Elegant Universe ; here was a book that did a good job of giving a survey of "the known physics", a good job of explaining the intractable problems, and then a poor job of explaining "the new way" (while at the same time hedging as much as possible). The comparisons to Eastern mysticism seemed a little conveniently tacked on, and maybe even a bit cherry-picked. I think the real problem I had with this book though wasn't about the theories (which, you know, "you ca
I think the real problem I had with this book though wasn't about the theories (which, you know, "you can't blame a guy for trying") but that when a book's popularity catches fire, an authoritative tone can make it that much more convincing to folks (like me) that are not trained in that specific discipline (in this case, high-energy physics)—and so even as the evidence stacks up against the espoused theory (which in this case is the S-matrix theory), there isn't any real serious re-evaluation.
This is a very interesting treatise on how physics is just catching up with Eastern religions.
The more scientists discover about the working of the universe, from the tiniest particles to the most universal truths, the more Eastern mysticism and preachings are substantiated as true.
The first few chapters each give a brief overview of the different Eastern religions (philosophies).
It's also interesting to know that this book was published in the mid-70s, and so much more has been discovered since then.
I read this book back when I was a teenage nerd and I think it had a great deal of influence on me, shaping my character and making me what I am today: a middle-aged nerd.This was one of my earliest exposures to both modern physics and ancient mysticism, and from what I have observed, whatever source first introduces one to these ideas is always held in special esteem. Though highly recommended by others, I didn't enjoy The Dancing Wu-Li Masters, nor the film What the Do We Know nearly as much(A
I read this book back when I was a teenage nerd and I think it had a great deal of influence on me, shaping my character and making me what I am today: a middle-aged nerd.This was one of my earliest exposures to both modern physics and ancient mysticism, and from what I have observed, whatever source first introduces one to these ideas is always held in special esteem.
)I frequently find this book at yard sales and used book stores, and I buy it up every time, so that I can give it away to other people.
Because I truly think everyone should read it.
This book points out many of the parallels between modern physics and Eastern mysticism.
In particular we can recognize parallels between many ancient mystic ideas and the modern quantum physical findings of superposition (and non locality), the duality of light and matter, and the ultimate non-physicality of nature.
For many years there have been cultures that ascribed to these types of ideas as crazy as they sounded when they first hit the physics arena in the 20th century.
This book does a good job pointing out these parallels and thus demonstrates how the pendulum has swung away from those ancient ideas, and has now begun to swing back.
This is a great book at showing the parallels between mystical and scientific research.It also does a great job of stimulating visual imagination in the realm of the 4th dimension.
This is the first book I have read that has managed to really explain the paradox of quantum-reality more clearly and I can now finally how the paradox of time and location are fundamental issues relating to the fabric of particles rather than with measuring techniques.
Given the kind of education a lot of us have had in India, and also that many of us I am acquainted with come from families and the immediate surroundings where religion, and to some extent spirituality do play a prominent role, a certain tension between the two ways of thinking - rational, objective & intuitive / spiritual, subjective - has always existed in my mind.This book made this tension explicit, but also attempted a synthesis.
Though he claims the book to be meant for the lay person, Capra does offer a very thorough account of what physicists have to say about our theories of the universe, space & time.
Mystics have always known that the one is the whole.
Does that mean that the one spoken about by mystics is the same one spoken about by physicists.
If you're inclined to think that only science give access to truth, you'll probably answer no to the foregoing questions.
If you are inclined to believe that nothing is as it seems and keep an open mind about things science cannot say anything about, you will very likely find the extended metaphor that runs through this book breathtakingly beautiful.
Either way, read with an open mind.
This book is wonder full!

A nuclear physicist's ruminations on eastern philosophy and the parallels between physics and metaphysics. This book will be special to me always because it led me to discovering Heisenberg, quantum mechanics, Zen and Taoism. The sense I got out of this book was physics - science, even - is so much bigger, better and grander than what school textbooks could ever, ever tell you. Beautiful. Opened my eyes.
Finishing this makes my brain feel like it just emerged out of a mental marathon!
