https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/251665.Hotel_du_Lac
I am a serious woman who should know better and am judged by my friends to be past the age of indiscretion; several people have remarked upon my physical resemblance to Virginia Woolf; I am a householder, a ratepayer, a good plain cook, and a deliverer of typescripts well before the deadline; I sign anything that is put in front of me; I never telephone my publisher; and I make no claims for my particular sort of writing, although I understand that it is doing quite well.”Edith Hope was supposed to get married, but at the 11th hour decided that it would be a grave mistake.
In this world we swim slowly in a social fishtank constantly judging and appraising each other's sexual, sartorial, social and financial status.
The women relentlessly and mercilessly judge all other women they encounter, the men likewise.
Our heroine says "the company of their own sex was what drove many women into marriage".
Some kind of bleak view of women, I say.
But generalisations like this pop up all over - "women hide their sadness, thought Edith.
Their joy they like to show off to one another." Or "men like the feeling they have had to fight other men for possession [of women:]".
This review contains spoilers.1984 Booker Prize Winner.Edith Hope, a successful romance writer, has made some mistakes, two of them actually; she is having an affair with a married man, and she walked out on her wedding to another man at the last minute.
This story is her journey through the icebergs of her life and the Hotel du Lac. And the writing is excellent, as you would expect in a Booker Prize winner, and it has to be in a novel structured like this, it's simply the difference between success and failure.4 solid stars.
I knew I was going to like this book the minute I read Edith's description of her hotel room, decorated as it is in shades of overcooked veal.
"People feel at home with low moral standards.
It is scruples that put them off.""The company of their own sex, Edith reflected was what drove many women into marriage."The first 100 pages or so of the novel, Edith is more of a narrator of the characters in the hotel.
The hotel itself is a character, as are the people working and staying there.
I enjoyed the character of Edith very much!!
An open book, a crackling fire and the languid smoke sonorating from a veal coloured pipe induces images not of pity for the sad old codger, but endorsement of quality and order.Take a spinster, Edith Hope, and the same singleness of purpose is translated into failed possibility, the non crystallisation of purpose, gross irregularities in the order of the cosmos and staleness.Do men ever consider it a life unlived without the redemptive qualities of femme feng shui?
A perfectly handsome, successful, erudite, considerate man proposes to her: he promises a life of shared interests, social standing, security, and his support and friendship ad nauseum.
A quite book, beautifully so. The simple prose is deceiving--the book is not simple, but elegant and superbly crafted. The words wrap you like the mist that weaves in and out of the landscape. A story of an older woman on a vacation alone. Loved it.Anyone who has ever contemplated or experienced the noisy quiet that happens when you are by yourself but surrounded by others who are all there together. Please read it.
This book cut WAY too close to the bone for me. I can't decide if I want to read everything she's ever written or banish her forever.
Edith Hope may be a moderately successful romance novelist, but her own love life is a shambles.
After leaving a poor chap at the altar back in London, she goes on a sabbatical to a Swiss hotel to take stock of her life and spend some time working.
The choice before Edith is between safety and passion, and right up until the last few pages it’s unclear which path she’ll choose.Brookner has some lovely turns of phrase (“her daily task of fantasy and obfuscation”; “Most of my life seems to go on at a subterranean level”) but the quiet story is unlikely to stay with me.
This is an introspective, reflective novel; it's all about the inner journey, not the physical one.Our protagonist, Edith, is an author, specialising in romances (quite low-brow romances is the suggestion) who has been packed off to the Hotel Du Lac on the Lake Geneva shoreline (yes, I had 'Smoke On The Water' running through my head the entire time I was reading this book) by her friends and family after her life goes a bit pear-shaped.
I am sorry I waited so long to read a book by the great British author, Anita Brookner.
If you haven't read her works, you are in for a treat.
Next up for me is reading her book "Making Things Better" (The Next Big Thing) which was longlisted for the Booker prize.
"Hotel du Lac" won the Man Booker prize in 1984.
The novel is about a woman who is exiled to a Swiss hotel to let things die down after a scandal.
After bittersweet interactions with other hotel members, she begins to sort out who she really is.
This novel is the perfect balance of quietly beautiful and quietly sad.
Our narrator is a single woman on the edge of spinsterhood who is taking refuge in a Swiss luxury hotel during the off season to ride out an embarrassing breach of social expectations.
In this quiet setting populated by eccentric cast-offs from love, she is surprised by what she comes to realize about herself.
The atmosphere and characters are so vivid that I was easily drawn into the Hotel du Lac and became one of its residents where I developed a tender spot for each of these fragile individuals.
I ate dinner at an historical park once, and when I think of that meal I always remember being pleased with the place setting and the table linens.
The table cloth was crisp and white, the silverware was highly polished, but I can't remember the feel of the fabric or the design of the forks and spoons and knife.
It was all nice.Nice but mostly forgettable.And that's all I'm left with when I think of Brookner's Booker Prize winning Hotel Du Lac. It was nice.
I enjoyed the niceness of the experience, and then it was forgotten.Hotel Du Lac was nice.
Edith Hope is a romance novelist who is banished by her friends to the Hotel du Lac on Lake Geneva in order to atone for a transgression, the details of which we don't learn until well into the second half of the book.
At the hotel, it is approaching the end of the season and only a handful of long-term guests remain.
Edith establishes a routine of writing and spending time with the other guests.
Yes, there was a love in Edith's life, but it was one that society and the other party would not allow her to acknowledge.
Not that that isn't extremely well-established by now.Why I read this:A friend who was visiting a few weeks ago saw the book here and mentioned that a relative he was staying with for part of the summer lived very near the place where Hotel du Lac is set.
Why I even had this book in the house:At the beginning of first year at (secondary) school we were given a reading list which was only occasionally referred to again by teachers, but by which I set great and geeky store.
About how being coupled allows one to relax and behave badly, and the good behavior expected of single women.
What I'm really trying to say is that I dread such women's attempts to recruit me, to make me their accomplice.
I'm not talking about the feminists.
I'm talking about the ultra-feminine.
I'm talking about the complacent consumers of men with their complicated but unwritten rules of what is due to them.
Such women strike me as dishonourable.
I think perhaps that men are an easier target.
So the last time I was in Ohio in 2009, I decided to buy this brand new copy of Hotel du Luc because this made Ballard asked the question why the 5 judges, led by  Professor Richard Cobb (1917-1996), denied him of that year's Booker.Maybe Cobb was a historian?
Or maybe he found the sadness that Edith Hope is experiencing being ditched by a lover and finding solace in the silent and eerie Swiss hotel, Hotel du Lac melancholic enough and it brought back memories of lost love?
Cobb was 67 years old when he gave his nod to Hotel to win over Ballard's Empire or even Julian Barnes' Flaubert's Parrot.
While one character, Mrs. Pusey initially impresses upon Edith that she is kind and lovely, it soon becomes evident that she's really just lacking in the same things that most of the hotel guests are without as well -- after all, why are they all sequestered in this hotel, away from family and friends, during a quiet time of season?
Edith, used to the ruminative monologues that most people consider to be adequate for the purposes of rational discourse, used, moreover, to concocting the cunning and even learned periods which the characters in her books so spontaneously uttered, leaned back in her chair and smiled.
(I stayed at the Hotel du Lac in Vevey for work once and nicked as much stationery as I could, then set to reading this after ages looking for a second hand copy.
Finally got to reading it after many months).
We've got a spectrum here, from the ‘kept’ Pusey senior and junior; the elderly Madame (a brilliantly drawn, very touching character) the jaded and cynical Monica and the ruthless buddy back home.
Much has been said about the strong characterisation.
Madame de Bonneuil has got amazing pathos and is so well observed.
Neville, a man who arrives at the hotel later on, vehemently tries to convince Edith that the life she's been living isn't worth it, and that he can give her a comfortable position inside the societal norm and all the freedom that come with it.
But it's also a novel that, I think, insists there is nothing wrong with Edith's life at all, with none of these women's lives.
This is a well-written book for people who enjoy the low-key, thoughtful sort of lonely protagonist who appears quiet, almost withdrawn, out-of-step, who has depth and strength and yes, sadness, and for Anglophiles everywhere who mourn the passing of good manners. Among other things, Brookner focuses on character and the distinct nature of the woman alone and the way she is seen by society, in a sometimes delightfully dry, beautiful prose. A beautiful book.
At one point, Edith felt the hairs on the back of her neck begin to crepitate”.
Now, I understand “crepitate” to mean crackling and popping noises (in my advancing age, one of my knees crepitates when I walk down stairs).
If the hairs on the back of my neck crepitated, I think I would see a doctor.
Plus, crepitate seems to refer to a noise, not something felt.
Anyway, that’s just a personal thing: there were just a few too many pretentious words and phrases.I’m sure there are subtleties in this book that have passed me by.
Brookner writes in dense, lengthy paragraphs that seem like blocks of ice that must be fastidiously chipped through, reflecting the general mindset of the introverted, melancholy protagonist, a romance novel writer named Edith.
As she "endures" a self-imposed exile in a stately hotel on the Continent sparsely populated by expected "types"--eccentric aristocratic sorts that seem to exist solely to make appearances in such places--she begins a process awkward interactions and grudged introspection that slowly gives way to difficult realizations and eventual decisions.If this review has seemed to be a bit dismissing in tone, it's not entirely intended to; I actually enjoyed reading it quite a bit.
I admire that Brookner resolutely avoids sunshiny, transcendent revelations, instead attempting something more difficult and diffuse (even though I remain, I admit, not entirely convinced).
Местами очень хорошо, местами ужасно, местами напоминает роман "Что делать?". Больше всего понравилось, как героиня приезжает в тихий швейцарский отель и так же тихо сидит в гостиной и со смешанным чувством гадливости, ужаса, зависти и восхищения завороженно рассматривает эксцентричных и богатых постояльцев – чудесные сцены для тех, кто не может представить себе, как в раньше жили без инстаграма.
I liked the sound of this one, however I didn’t feel that it ultimately delivered. It felt too slow and had too many words describing things I didn’t care about. I wanted to know why Edith, the narrator, was in the hotel in Switzerland, but it just seemed to take too long to get there - even though my copy of the book (a large print edition) was only just over 200 pages long!
This was my first Brookner-novel, and I have to say, I was rather disappointed. The story of Edith, a middle-aged writer of romance-novels, exiled to a hotel at Lake Geneva because she ran out on her husband to be, didnt captivate me and neither did the other characters. 2.5*
In 1984 we were exploring feminism, but this is not quite what Brookner is on about; her female characters are always circumscribed by their lives and are never able to exercise much in the way of choices...Edith Hope, in her late thirties, is a very respectable writer of romantic fiction, but she has scandalised her friends.
Edith is quietly outraged that Mr Neville uses women like Jennifer; she does not want to marry a man like that.What kind of woman should she be?
Like Mr Neville she wants companionship, but on her terms.
In college, the women in the Chamber Singers group I belonged to sang:"An ape, a lion, a fox and an ass,Do show forth man's life as it were in a glass.For apeish they are till twenty-and-one, And after than lions till forty be gone.Then wicked as foxes till three-score-and-ten,And after that asses, and so no more men."I can think of no comparable rhyme for women.
A woman's stages are all dependent on men: she is a maiden, ripe with possibility, until she marries and has children, and then after her man is dead and gone and she is alone, she becomes a crone.And what of those women who are neither maiden, wife, nor crone?
The characters at Hotel du Lac is what makes the novella; after all, it is what becomes Edith's existence for the few short months addressed here...
Although not entirely unpredictable, in the last several paragraphs, as Edith takes a stand in her life to stick to her beliefs, her philosophy, her loves, as opposed to giving into societal pressures, gives Edith's existence a whole new meaning for what seems will be the final time.
The meaning of such places as Hotel du Lac is confirmed, as is the need for not necessarily exile, but whatever it takes to be alone to consider life away from ordinary, everyday pressures.
A slow-burning, beautifully described, intelligent and introverted novel - Edith is an author spending time at the titular and strange Hotel du Lac in the wake of some kind of (later detailed) social catastrophe, and during her stay she is brought to consider various aspects of self-image and romance and behaviour.
It's a wonderfully uncertain sort of novel, which feels important yet somewhat intangible - very believable as a Booker Prize winner in the same way that some others (i.e.
'The Sea' and 'The Sense of an Ending') have been - thought provoking.
I found it very interesting, attractive and incisive about people's thoughts and actions.
this was so disappointing; i loved 'look at me' but this was rly limp n fakedeep. and this line made me laugh: 'women, only women, and I do so love the conversation of men' i mean cmon no woman in the history of ever has thought that
