https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9917938-blood-red-road
I hope it will get enough promo buzz over the next few months to reach tons of readers, because Blood Red Road very much deserves it.
It is a stand-out in the new crop of dystopian/post-apocalyptic YA fiction, most of which is crap.The novel is basically an adventure quest set in a distant post-apocalyptic future.
Obstacles and adventures are ahead of her.I quite liked Saba.
The first half is intense and suspenseful, colored by Saba's single desire to save her brother.
Blood Red Road might not be my favorite book in the dystopian/post-apocalyptic genre, but it is definitely one of the better ones.
Because this book has everything that will keep anyone, whether a reader or movie-goer, hooked: action, suspense, drama, unpredictability, emotion, romance, and great characterization.Unlike other dystopian YA novels, Blood Red Road isn't focused on issues that lead to rebellion and upheaval.
Emmi, for being a little sister character, was not a whiny little brat; instead, she was a hard-working and loyal girl, a smaller version of Saba, just much more innocent and child-like.The dialect in the narrative may turn off some readers, just as the lack of dialogue tags and overt descriptions might, but I found all of it to be marks of this book's refreshing qualities compared to other YA dystopians focused on love and rebellion.
It's a hugely entertaining spectacle full of adventure and excitement and thrills, with action scenes that you can clearly picture as you read them.Saba's twin brother Lugh has been kidnapped by a band of horsemen, and she sets off alone on the quest to bring him back.
I like Jack a lot, and I like Saba--but the push and pull between them felt unreasonably drawn out and a little forced.
Overall, the story is a lot of fun to read and the action and adventure provide one heck of a ride.
he has tons of personality: kind and generous and affectionate and reasonable and quick-thinking and a good sport and he finds clues and naturally he saves the day in the end with his excellent ability to fly swiftly & summon cavalry.
however I would say that it is definitely a Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome type book, complete with a sort of thunderdome and tough kids coming out of their world to rescue other kids and get in all sorts of unpleasant adventures.so Nero flies through this blighted landscape trying to do the best that he can and usually succeeding.
As the story progresses, you see Saba grow into an individual person and not just one half of a twin.Lugh:Her older brother (he’s Saba’s twin but older by two hours) is always in the lead.
Emmi:Saba’s younger sister Emmi is the one that gets the blame for all the problems (the rest of the family doesn’t blame Emi but Saba’s blame & poor Emi’s guilt play an essential part in the story regarding the development of the characters).
Because of that, I loved Saba and the story even more.The 2nd half of the book.
This is the novel that I wanted Graceling to be. An alternate world/reality full of adventure with a hardcore warrior heroine, and here's the key bit, who doesn't feel the need to unsex herself (à la Lady Macbeth) and prove that she's not feminine. In fact, all the female characters are wonderfully strong and unforgiving, no damsels finally, and there's just a general sense of equality - pretty much everyone is a warrior without a masculinity v. femininity contest. Where Graceling seemed in som
I love journies in novels, when they're kept at a good fast pace you feel like there's constantly something happening.
Though the books are actually very different from Blood Red Road, one of the main reasons I loved The Knife of Never Letting Go and Beyond the Deepwoods is because they had awesome fast-paced journies throughout.
Though, on that subject, I'd just like to finish with my own opinion of a bad kind of different:
as blood red road is about a rugged sunbaked environment and a girl on a horse with a mission, there was no way i wasn't going to visualize that true grit actress in this role, even though she was considerably younger than the girl in this book.this is simply anecdotal and maybe i am stalling??
hear me, ariel - i dismiss it!it was good, and i will read the rest of the books when they come out, no mistake, but it didn't turn me inside out the way hunger games did.
At this point I was doing that ear shattering screech bc GET ME AWAY FROM THISAround 50% of wading through this swamp of a book I finally decided that I didn’t hate myself enough to continue and so I skimmed to the end and read a Wikipedia synopsis (why are there so few of those, I demand more) Wiki tells me that a few side characters, who I didn’t particularly care about, die in a very lame and unnecessary fashion and to this I say ha!
And the characters are so dumb like they have absolutely NO game plan, they don’t think twice about ANYTHING, they trust EVERYONE like fricken just make it stop please Thus ends my suffering bc please don’t make me relive this book again “Yer in my blood, Saba, he says.
Saba’s narration is due to the fact that she and her siblings have lived an isolated life and never learned to read or write, which seems typical of basically everyone in the story.
After a group of men on horseback come to their home, kill Saba’s father, and kidnap her twin brother, Saba is on a mission to rescue Lugh from the danger he is in.
In real life, plans don't go off without a hitch and people don't show up at the exact moment you absolutely need them.I think this book stands out in the YA dystopian scene and it is a solid 4 star read.
Dislikes.PROSE: Blood Red Road is written in dialect--so it's 1st POV, but the narration follows the exact voice of the main character (Saba).
Saba is my least favorite thing about this book.
I don't understand how people read The Hunger Games and then sit back and call Katniss a badass heroine, when in reality, she was far from "bad" and she certainly wasn't an "ass." She was cautious, smart and most of all she respected what she feared the most (she complained a ton and was dense about certain things, but this part of Katniss I'm not talking about).
phew!
this book was an uphill battle for me.
i thought the story itself was so very cool and quite the adventure, but i just could not get over the writing style.
if youve read this, you know what i mean.
its written in first person with the narrator speaking in VERY improper grammar, no punctuation, misspelled words, etc.
but like i said, the story itself was my only motivating factor.
i think if this been executed differently, i would have absolutely loved it.
but right now im just kind of ‘meh’ - there were parts i loved and obviously parts i didnt.
• FIGHTING AND VIOLENT STUFF YeAH• Unique formatting (in that it had lateral spelling and no dialogue tags and no chapters)• Never spares the characters and people get hurt and die ALL OVER THE PLACE• Tough grittiness that just makes me squeak with pure happiness.Omg, thank you bookish universe for this book, is ALL I CAN SAY.
...to read this book!Do you love Hunger Games? or The Knife of Never Letting Go or Divergent, etc.?Do you love the dessert? *coughs* I mean desert. Do you love the desert? Do you love cage fighting? and worms?   If you're cool with those things, then I got to say YOU HAFTA READ THIS!When I started reading Blood Red Road I did not like it that much because the beginning was a little bit cheesy especially when they talked about stars and prophecy. Also, the writing style did not help, there are a
Just like what happen to me when I read The Knife of Never Letting Go.Once you meet Miz Pinch that is when the story will get more exciting.
I really like them Saba, Lugh, Emmi, Jack, Epona, Ash, Maev, Helen, Tommo, Demalo, Miz Pinch, the King, all of them.
The characters are really great you will root for them, and care for them like they are real.The love story was also a good one Saba and Jack.
The love storySPOILER ALERT!!!My favorite part is the one (view spoiler)[when they are in the river Saba and Maev was there bathing in the river and Jack came.
“If you know how to read the stars, you can read the story of people’s lives.” Initial Final Page Thoughts.Blaaaahhh I had such high hopes for this book and I thought I was going to love it. And I did until about half way through… and then I just wanted to punch things the red hot descended and things got fuzzy.High Points.The first half. Emmi. Jack (and his hairless chest). Ike. Tommo. Nero. The setting, Ms Young certainly knows how to set up a story and build a world. Loved it. Written in the
(Weird, btw, Saba… weird) Tell you to be a complete and utter little madam with your sister (who did nothing to warrant your hate)?
(JUST THROW IT IN A RAVINE IF IT CONFUSES YOU TOO MUCH)Wait…someone did slip you some chaal and make you do all of that?That Nero has a funny sense of humour, doesn’t he?Love Interest.Jack, I really liked you.
I feel like I’m going to get shunned from the YA community and lynched and other terrible things.
People who like dystopian books.
People who like adventure books.
People who like books with a fantastic setting.
I don’t even want to talk about all of the incredible women in this book because the telling of it is so nonchalant and so free from politics that it seems a shame to freak out about it.
They’re just incidentally as cool as actual girls.I won’t tell you much about this book because I don’t want to spoil all the transitions from one kind of beauty to another.
It seems vulgar to compare authors only because they talk about women living in similar settings.) I am reading in a message about slavery here because, while this book contains slavery, it is ultimately about adventure, not about slavery or morality or politics.I am studying slavery in Zanzibar right now, though, so I’m going to comment on it.
Set in a post-apocalyptic world, we meet Saba, her twin brother Lugh, her sister Emmi and their father living in Silverlake, a place which reminded me a bit of the movie Mad Max. The mother is dead and they are experiencing a terrible drought that is making their lives really hard.
2.5 stars I believe that, consciously or unconsciously, every author has a list of priorities he/she keeps in mind when writing a book.
I also think that Blood Red Road was written for people who need to visualize something clearly in order to enjoy it.
Her mother died giving birth to her younger sister Emmi, and for the first 18 years of her life, the only people Saba ever talked to were her father and her brother Lugh.
I know many people had problems with the dialect that was used in this book, but for me, that was the best part.
I read too many reviews and they all loved the book so much, I think I was expecting it to be as spectacular as the Second Coming of Christ.
From nine-year old Emmi to the tough-yet-friendly Hawks, no-one is less than capable of taking care of themselves and their group.Emmi was great, and I sort-of wanted to hurt Saba for being such a bitch to her; one of my favourite scenes in the book is when Jack stands up to Saba and calls her on her lack of feeling for Emmi, saying that he thinks Emmi would be safer with him than with Saba.
Also posted on my blog, YA Anonymous- For YA AddictsWhat I thought when I read the first line of  Blood Red Road  was, "woah, what the hell?!" I actually said this out loud in my local library, where it's usually silent, so I earned a number eyes my way and a harsh shushing from the librarian at the counter.
I was so used to this style of writing that I went around saying that  Blood Red Road  "warn't as bad as I wus sayin it wus" and that it was really "innerestin", accent and all.
I think that the dialect creates a great atmosphere and the lack of quotation marks really work to make the dialogue seem immediate and natural.This book is pretty darn entertaining and if you look at it sideways while holding it about ten feet away from your eyes (with your go go gadget arms) on a foggy day and during the exact moment of a solar eclipse, then about 50% of it makes sense.
By the end I didn’t feel any emotional connection to this book or to its characters.
I think that the character who I connect with the most is Emmi, but she’s very minor.
Saba’s got that bad ass attitude like Katniss, cagefighting that Wolverine does in the first movie, and killer worms from Tremors.
Awesome combination if I do say so myself.The first thing you notice about the book is the terse, short, and simple sentences used stylistically to evoke Saba’s voice.
Also, it’s excellent in keeping up with the idea that Saba isn’t well educated and that she can’t read or has been brought up with any proper teaching.Everything about this book is fast paced.
Most of it consisted of a few nondescript sentences and perhaps an allusion or two but nothing concrete that would have me thinking.But other than that, this book is a great read.
First off: there is nothing wrong with this book.
But I'm being picky these days since my reading time has been cut WAY back due to me being back in school.
In a way, I like this.
Plus, it's one of those "survival" books as well where not much happens but the main character finds shelter and food and wanders ...
Fans of The Wolf Road would probably like this (although this book came before that one and Wolf Road is not YA, I don't think).
It's over 450 pages long, and I don't think I'm interested in the writing style enough to continue.
It makes it so unique, so filled with personality that you can't help but feel like Saba is sitting in front of you, recounting her journey.
Though these are all pretty minor overall, and since this is the first in its series, it felt to me like we were sent off into a strong, fast pace story that concentrates on action and excitement at first, but will (hopefully) give us a more refined world building in the following installments.Incredibly gripping and grossly entertaining, Blood Red Road sends us on a journey full of bumps and scrapes that will leave your heart pounding with energy.
Lugh is the light of Saba's life, while poor little Emmi exists to be a target for her resentment for stealin' ma away.
They steal Lugh away, and stubborn Saba goes after him.Despite dialect prose of someone who has never had book learnin', I was soon captured by the stark setting and the fast moving plot.
This makes for a strange dissociation, and a narrator who has more than a little to learn about empathy, emotion and caring.
As the story develops, one of the joys is seeing Saba discover her care for her sister and willingness to accept her as a person.Saba sets off across the wasteland, discovers past towns under shifting dunes of sand, and confronts a land-ship.
As usual I’m very late to the party, but I really enjoyed this! It features a hate to love done in the way I actually enjoy it (aka the right way), a deeply flawed MC who is called out on her issues, adventure, and bringing down an evil government.The writing was a bit hard to get into at first because of how it’s written (slang, no quotation marks for speaking) but once I was hooked I HAD to finish.
SERIES RATING AND SPOILER-FREE REVIEW: Book 1: Blood Red Road- STARSBook 2: Rebel Heart - 2 STARSBook 3: Raging Star - 2.5 STARS This is the most conflicted I have ever felt about book series. I adored some parts of this trilogy and hated the others. Let's see what are pluses and minuses of Dust Lands trilogy.(+) REALISTIC NARRATORSaba, the narrator and heroine of this trilogy, is bold, rude, vicious and very determined. On the top of that she is selfish and stubborn. Surprisingly, instead of b
Book 1: Blood Red Road- STARSBook 2: Rebel Heart - 2 STARSBook 3: Raging Star - 2.5 STARS This is the most conflicted I have ever felt about book series.
Everything that I liked about characters and storyline in Blood Red Road was missing in sequel.
Rebel Heart turned into something I hate - almost every important male character had romantic feelings for Saba.
(Those of you who are not familiar with Grisha Trilogy, The Darkling Syndrome is what I call a situation in books when heroine develops some kind of feelings/connection to villain and this connection disables her to fight villain properly.) It drove me crazy.
Sure I read great books often enough but none that have made me SO excited I might burst.
Rebel Heart cannot come out soon enough.Saba lives in Silverlake.
Saba's Pa can read the stars and he sees some things he doesn't like.
More people live in the outskirts and try to keep to themselves.
Most people can't read, so the language is bound to change.
Saba (what a cool name) is who carries the book the most I think.
Then there is Saba's sister Emmi who is such a complex character that you root for too.
There are many great people in this book.
Fun first person, which delivers it from one star hell, but when the whole book is derived from the lives of Han Solo, Princess Leia and Lando Calrissian from the Trilogy and the canon books, no one can argue that this book isn't derivitive in the extreme."You're full of shit, Brad!"Really?!
Fuck you!
✓Jack and Saba as Han and Leia.
✓ Saba and Lugh as Leia and Luke (yep, they're twins with benefits).
✓Han and Bria (Han's first love from the Crispon trilogy) fighting drug creating, religion creating bad-asses.
✓Belligerent chick (Saba/Leia) tames charming scoundrel (Jack/Han).
✓Lando/Ike smacking down Han/Jack.
If the author was trying to write a dystopian future the idea unraveled as she tried to create a plot and started making stuff up to make it work.
(The author doesn't have a website let alone an FAQ, agh.)Saba's quest to find Lugh after he is kidnapped felt strange.
She tried to ditch her sister a few times in the beginning, but the little girl keeps trailing after her.
They sacrifice another member of the group when she's captured -- Saba shoots her in the heart, but the world comes to a Dead Stop when the little sister is snagged.
On her adventure, we discover that Saba is a fierce fighter whose determination and strength can conquer any obstacle in her path which ultimately labels her the Angel of Death.The setting throughout the novel places the characters in dried-up wastelands that’s subject to desert storms, heavy rains and constant climate challenges.
We come across the highly adventurous Jack, who does a great job of bringing down Saba’s defenses so we can see a different side of her character.
I loved her innocent determination and I hope to read more of her in the coming novels.
