https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/285413.Ch_teau_d_Argol
Childe Albert to the Dark Tower Came From the top of this mute sentinel of the sylvan solitudes, the eye of a watcher following the traveller's steps could not for an instant lose sight of him throughout all the twisting arabesques of the path, and if hate should be waiting ambushed in this tower, a furtive visitor would run the most imminent danger! A sentence plucked at random from the opening of Julien Gracq's gothic-inspired novel, as his protagonist, a wealthy young man known only as Alber
A sentence plucked at random from the opening of Julien Gracq's gothic-inspired novel, as his protagonist, a wealthy young man known only as Albert, approaches for the first time a property he has purchased sight unseen, a castle on a rocky fastness, rising high above the forests in a deserted area of Brittany.
It is a world of dreams, where all is surreal, where even violation and death seem but stages in an existence beyond time.I read the book because Philippe Claudel, the author of the magnificent Brodeck, cites Gracq as one of his favorite authors.

There are three characters -- Albert, Herminien, and Heide -- holed up in an atmospheric castle near the Breton shore, surrounded by water, a dark forest, an eerie cemetery, and scads of atmosphere.
The death of Heide and Herminien (at least, I think it is Herminien) does not arouse any feeling because both they and Albert are more literary constructs than characters.
There is only a single line of dialog -- the two words "Never again!" -- uttered either by Albert or Herminien, I'm not sure which.
The sun burst through the mist , lighting the scene with its rays just as Heide in her dazzling nudity walked toward the sea with a step more mettlesome and light than that of a mare of the desert sands.
In that shimmering landscape formed by those long watery reflections, in the omnipotent  horizontality  of those banks of mist, of those smooth flat waves, of those gliding rays of the sun, she suddenly startled the eye by the miracle of her verticality.
All along the sun-devoured shore from which all shadows had fled, she set sublime reflections flowing.
A small, curious book about a man who goes to live in a castle in the forest.
Ten chapters, only three characters; as far as novels go there's not much happening here.I discovered, however, that if I approached this work as I would a set of paintings, I began to appreciate it more.
Nature abounds - scenes of forests and thunder and the sea, and the internal, dreamlike deliberations of Albert and his guests are breathtaking.
The design of the physical book is also remarkable, even minimalist, with a centerfold of a corpse in the back that I almost missed.File this under prose poetry, fantasy in form if not in content.
This book is like one of those electronic albums without any lyrics where you can't tell if it's good or not
Kötü çok kötü
He invites his close friend Herminien for a visit.
Herminien writes to say that he is bringing along a friend, Heide.
Albert, being the spoiled jealous type, is annoyed that his private time with Herminien will be intruded upon by an outsider.
When they arrive, Heide turns out to be a beautiful young woman who almost immediately falls for Albert.
And so, we have the makings of a doomed love triangle in a windswept chateau, or so it would seem.Julien Gracq was enamored of Breton's novel, Nadja, and dedicated Chateau d'Argol to him.
Gracq's writing, however, seduces us into this dreamworld, to our aesthetic benefit.
i read this in french, and though i am fluent and am used to heavy literary language (see an entire education in the french school system) this was a challenge.
the sentences are long, complex and require unflinching focus, and i had to keep my dictionary tab open on my phone at all times.the prose is beautiful though: intense, rich, gothic, lyrical.
the landscapes, castle and weather are lushly described (i’d visit argol and storrvan in a heartbeat), but i found the story lacking in pacing and cohesiveness.
the characters of albert, herminien and heide were unfortunately uninteresting and rather two-dimensional.3.5/5
Sumptuous prose... comparisons to Proust are entirely justified.
The slanting rays of the sun coming through the low horizontal loopholes seen in the façade, and that the setting sun now lighted with long streaks of dancing golden dust, formed with the white pillars a luminous pattern separating the entire upper part of the vaulted ceiling, and their ever-changing and fantastic fluctuations prevented the eye from measuring its true height.
No furniture was to be seen in this hall, but here and there piles of deep furred skins; and cushions, covered with Asiatic silken fabrics of an extravagant luxury, were piled against the naked walls and pillars with an air of negligent profusion, making one think of a night encampment of the Golden Horde in a white Byzantine cathedral.
Now this maybe unfair. I did not finish this. For several years I have been circling this book, building up an assumption that it is 'my kind of thing'. Well, it's not. Every line sounds as if it is being declaimed with arch hand gestures by a terrible ham actor. It has good points: it's short. And pretty (like most Pushkin Press releases). But that's it.
Todo un clásico del género narrativa gótica.Lleno de simbolismos, inquietante y pura narrativa.

The good bits are really, really good: the gothic eloquence behind every action and description, the landscape and atmosphere, even the eroticism, are all written like a love-letter to language (in part, I'm sure, thanks to the translation). But the surrealism and dreamlike hazyness mid-way through turn this from a novel into something unexpectedly abstract and a little muddled. I'm sure someone with more patience and literary prowess would find more in this to enjoy than I did, but I found myself getting frustrated towards the end.Simultaneously amazing and mediocre.
Amour, désir, mort, érotisme autodestructeur... L’atmosphère gothique des couloirs du château dans lesquels on se perd au côté des trois personnages principaux et la sensation qu’un drame est en préparation nous tiennent en haleine pendant la lecture de ce court livre, premier d’une œuvre littéraire absolument exceptionnelle.
La sintaxis lo es todo en este libro.
Mistery, beauty,and a dreamy nature makes this book a master piece in its kind.
A story about friendship and love in a sort of wild entourage.
One follows it willing to know what is going to happen, but follows it, would say, for the beauty of the writing.
You will want to know Britanny, in case you yet do not.
You can rew read passages once and again, they keep an inner beauty difficult to find in other books.
Think as other books of this weird author, it already is a classic.
Only him could write this way and mantain interest in the reading.
After the awesome Opposing Shore and the very good Balcony in the Forrest, I had the highest expectations about this one and I was somewhat disappointed; superb passages and a clear precursor to Opposing Shores, but the book lacks something - purpose, vitality, coherence??
- hard to say, Chateau d'Argol has a clear ending and things happen, but it's all very dreamy, lacking reality and ultimately makes one wonder why bother reading.
Maybe Opposing Shores narrator is what's lacking - a voice to make the whole at least the sum of the parts...
Zéro étoile!Un livre barbant, inutile et pédant!Les premières pages ne sont pas déplaisantes, parce que l'auteur utilise un langage imagé et poétique qui distrait de l'absence d'intrigue. Et ensuite, 5-6 pages plus loin, on se rend compte que l'auteur n'a aucune intention de raconter une histoire cohérente à laquelle il aurait pensé plus que 2 secondes; le roman se résume à ces interminables descriptions pseudo-poétiques, entrecoupées d'actes gratuits et d'exagérations adolescentes, décrites avec le plus grand sérieux.Les personnages sont insipides, caricaturaux, il n'y a aucun dialogue. Bref, un roman raté, qui n'aurait jamais dû être publié.
A surrealist novel. One finds already all the style of Gracq: wealth of descriptions, hallucinations. The feelings are felt but ever expressed.There could be photographs as in Nadja de Breton. Remain that the drama is quite present. It is a Jules and Jim destroy. We are far from the organized dialogues. Feelings violence joined physical violence. All rests on this shift between this violence and with the smoothes style. There are rape and suicide. A first text surprising compared to the production of this time 1937.
good. in spots great. too verbose, however, even though i liked the sentence structures, as it was more in line with how my own thoughts travel... but man when you are using arabesque and words like that so often, in a short book, and maybe it was just the translation, it becomes a glaring fault which, unfortunately, perhaps, overrides some of the good of a book. there were some golden sentences, however, and a series of odd masonic referencing with specific terms or phrases i found interesting. i look forward to the opposing shore.
Here nature speaks.A lush and atmospheric homage to nature. The plot (devoid of dialogue) seems almost secondary. The author uses three simple characters as a vehicle to take the reader on an almost hyper-real journey though Brittany's abandoned coastline, dense woods and abandoned places. Thoroughly enjoyable and transportive. The influence of Poe and Machen seems clear to me, but I am not a scholar
Well, I finished the book. I don't think I really enjoyed it - perhaps I'm a pleb! There was so much description that I lost track of the sense of many of the sentences and found myself having to read pages over and again to work out what was going on (often not much that I could work out). For a very short book this took a disproportionate amount of time and didn't give enough pleasure for me to ever want to pick it up again.
Œuvre anachronique, très fin de siècle (le XIXe), symboliste. Une écriture proustienne au service d'une histoire à la 'Pelléas et Mélisande', le tout placé sous le prisme du romantisme allemand et du roman gothique. C'est tumultueux, beau et désespéré.
Incompréhensible. L'auteur se perd en jolies phrases qui n'ont plus aucun sens. L'intrigue est insoluble, je ne pourrais même pas résumer l'histoire ! En bref, une lecture très pénible que j'ai peiné à lire jusqu'au bout.
Dense, macabre prose. I read this in one sitting and basically let it wash over me. A difficult read at times, with complex sentence structures and language, it is hard to fully grasp what's actually happening, real or not. Still. I didn't hate it.
Julien Gracq does not mince his words, he uses them exactly as he means to and the result is astounding. I wish I could read French in the same way I wished I could read Russian while reading The Master and Margarita.
Remember that kid you knew in college who, during parties, always wanted to talk about Hegel? Imagine that he OD'd on Wagner and wrote the most trite story about a bourgeois French love triangle. That's this book. And just like that kid, it is fucking tiresome.
Over-the-top Romanticist imitator.
