https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/462451.The_Beast_Master
This book tells a pretty good story opens just after an interstellar war has ended in which humanity or possibly humans have won but the human home world (i.e. Earth) has been destroyed.
With his (apparently genetically bred) animals with whom he has a sort of telepathic bond he lands and "they" set out on their adventure.This book pushed some of my annoyance buttons early on.
Ms. Norton uses this to set up the "noble savage" story line.
I didn't have a problem with genetically altered animals and/or telepathy but the rest was just annoying(I've used that word a lot in this review haven't I?) to me.
What was shocking was how the author was able to create a "western-like" novel (very analgous to cowboys and Indian literature) with enough Science Fiction to be interesting and enough "Western" parallels to force the plot forward.
His ability to communicate with his animal commando team is quickly put to the test once more as he encounters an outlaw band who seem intent on stirring up trouble with the natives (who are saddled with the racial epithet of "goats" because of the horns on their heads).This was pulpy Science Fiction that was a fun read and one I enjoyed.
As a kid, this was my favourite book.
I borrowed it and re-borrowed it and re-re-borrowed it from the town library.
Then one day a new librarian came to town.
She took one look at the title and one look at me and said sternly, 'You shouldn't be taking out books like this.
It's for adults.''No, it isn't,' I told her.
I'll show you exactly where it comes from in the children's section.' My plea was to no avail.
She re-classified the book into the adult section out of my reach.Interestingly, though I love the book overall, I loathe the ending.
The only book of hers ever made into a movie, but they changed EVERYTHING but the title and the fact there were animals. She even had her name taken off the movie, and never again sold movie rights. If you've seen the movie, forget it. The protagonist in this book is a space-traveling Native American, rather thoughtful and cerebral. I enjoyed it thoroughly.
I don’t talk much about gameability, but I think it is very likely that Gary Gygax was thinking of this book specifically when he listed Andre Norton in Appendix N.The Beast Master is the story of Hosteen Storm.
Given his choice of planets, he chooses Arzor, a bit of a colonial backwater, explaining he chose it because of a climate similar to his home and the employment prospects in ranching given his abilities as a Beast Master.He left the war and leaves for Arzor team intact.
classic Norton science fiction with Hosteen Storm, an American Indian veteran of Terran special forces, where he used his special talents of telepathy to communicate with animals to infiltrate enemy installations, emigrates to Arzor after a galactic war with the Xik ends with the destruction of Terra (Earth).On Arzor, Storm is on the hunt again.
Storm however discovers a kinship with the alien Norbies who live on Arzor and begins to suspect that certain ranchers are not who they seem.The action is fierce and Storm is a cool customer and a good character.One of those books that you read as a teen and just influences you into reading sf.
Really enjoyable. It's a pretty quick read, and once the action gets started, it really sucked me in.
Now that I've read the first book, I'll have to read Lord of Thunder as well.Unrelated P.S.: When I first started reading this story and discovered that Storm's animal team consisted of an African black eagle, two meerkats, and a "dune cat" (a futuristic genetically-engineered development of an African sand cat), I was immediately reminded of the 1982 sword and sorcery movie The Beastmaster, in which Marc Sanger's character controls and is aided by an eagle, a black tiger, and two ferrets.
So I looked online and discovered the movie was indeed "based" on Andre Norton's novel, but the plot was so dissimilar, Norton asked that her name be removed from the credits.
However, the title is where the similarities end.
Haunted by his memories and accompanied by his "brothers in arms", a band of animals he has a special connection with, Storm has come to the sparsely settled planet of Arzor, that is technologically similar to the American old west.Horseback is the primary mode of travel, the native Norbie tribes are a danger/ally with their bows, and rustlers threaten to steal away the prized Frawn herd, the primary export of Arzor.
The shadows of the past interplanetary war are still stretching long across the storyline as well.If a psuedo western with elements of sci-fi fantasy suits you, I strongly suggest you give this book a try.This would also make a great movie itself.
The Beast Master (Beast Master / Hosteen Storm, #1)Norton, Andrethe beginning of the story explaining the role of beast master in a post war universe, a good book to read, especially when going to the grand canyon area, because of the main characters heritage... Has great detail and two great stories.how he was connecting to the world of his future a good story about finding home is not what you thought, or feared, and that love does not always have to come from those who are like you.xiks are
Has great detail and two great stories.how he was connecting to the world of his future a good story about finding home is not what you thought, or feared, and that love does not always have to come from those who are like you.xiks are beaten and back, the war is over so they thought.
THe Death-that-kills-at-night broad casts their hunger and the joy in pain....
How will Storm and his people save the world they love, will the natives cause problems as they run from the death-that-kills-at-night.
Will storm finally have his dream, a home, land, and a love.
3.5 starsI first found Andre Norton on the shelves of my elementary school library in fourth grade.
One after the other, bound only by whatever limit our library put on me, I read all I could find on the shelves.
By the time I left that school in sixth grade, if you picked up one of her books and looked at the sign-out card (yes kids, once upon a time, library books had cards in the front where you’d print and sign your name and then the library would keep the card until you returned the book) you’d see my name running its length — four, five, six times per card, sometimes with no other names intervening — just my name, then my name again dated a few months later, then my name again after yet another few months.
This is science fiction space travel story of the intersect of cultures, in the aftermath of an Earth shattering war (literally) compared to the movie which was about the palest, thinnest, white-bread barbarian you've ever seen set in a sword and sorcery age.
The movie was not about a Navajo descendant veteran leaving behind a devastated Earth to travel on a personal mission to another planet.
(That is not a spoiler at all, btw, just opening of the novel info.) This book exemplifies the best of 50's sci-fi writing and Andre agrees that the movie butchered her novel.
I loved this book from the time I first read it in high school.
The pathos of the plot, with a character attempting to adjust to the loss of his entire planet, made me stop and appreciate even more how much I love the one I stand on.
As always, Andre Norton handles the tale of the outsider finding acceptance very very well.
This is her most common theme, and somehow she makes it work every single time.I for one cannot believe what a hash Hollywood made of the movie supposedly based on this book.
The only thing that survived is the mix of animals.
This is one of those books I search for in every used books store I wander into. EVERY used books store. I picked up the copy I have 20+ years ago in a teen "ohah" moment after having seen the cult classic movie version. Wasn't I surprised that the movie was only loosely based on the book...like almost only the title. And what a book! Wonderful. A human story on SO many levels. NOTHING like the movie or the TV series that was on a few years ago. I highly recommend the original to anyone who comes across a copy!
This is one of my favorite books by Andre Norton.
it is the far future, there was an interglatic war, we won but the enemy distroyed earth.
one on the survivores is a Beast master, a commando that lead a team of animals by training and telpathic mind touch, Hosteen Storm, a Navaho his team, Surra a dune cat mutated to the size of a puma, Baku the african Black eagle and Ho and Hing, meercats, diggers and saboteurs.
The war is over but Storm hunts a man he belives resonsible for his fathers death, a hunt interuppend by the war....

In fact I'm not sure that I can pinpoint why I didn't round up to four stars.
I think there were a few grating points - I can't figure out how the sign language between Norbie and settler developed for instance.
Also, as much as the fact that Storm is Navajo attracted me to the book in the first instance, perhaps the "noble savage" tone irritated me a bit at times.
There are some happy coincidences as well and fight scenes are not the author's strong point.
Still it was an easy read and I'm going on to book 2
I was reminded of this book this evening, and how much I enjoyed it. It has no relation to the 80s movie of the same name, not even the animals are the same. The movie should be avoided, but the book is a gem.
This book is old, but really good. So many things happen at the end, like woah.
And the hatred of natives was presented in a negative light.As much as superficial aspects of Dineh culture that could be derived from a trip out to New Mexico and reading a book or two were incorporated into Storm's culture, the character thinks and talks like a white American.
So, if you are reading this like I was because you were curious about the history of Native American characters in science fiction, it's reasonably well written and historically important.
Norton is a wonderful writer, and she's given us a vivid and intriguing story about one man's quest for vengeance and where it takes him.The titular Beast Master is Hosteen Storm, a Navajo who serves in the interplanetary military as a commander of animals -- his companions of an eagle, a giant hunting cat, and two meerkats fight and serve alongside him and obey his mental commands.
His Navajo heritage isn't merely a throwaway fact either -- it ties well into the story, helping Storm connect to the native Norbies and adding to Storm's backstory in a believable way."The Beast Master" is an excellent novel, and a fascinating look at the long-lost art of the "space western" and at classic sci-fi in general.
Both concern a future galaxy where Earth has been destroyed in the final act of a war with the alien Xik, and our protagonist, Hosteen Storm, is (as far as he knows) the only survivor of the Navajo.
Basically he is a Magical Indian.It’s also worth noting that there isn’t a single female speaking character in either book.
Storm’s animals are female, which is interesting.The Beast MasterStill, the first book reminded me of the magic it exerted on my mind in a Belfast classroom long ago.
Navajo Hosteen Storm starts over on a new world where he has to deal with some PTSD, an old vendetta, a possible war with the natives and the discovery of a lost Xik outpost.
Oh, and Hosteen's a Beastmaster, a trained fighter with the power to bind a team of animals for his commando work (this doesn't play as large a role in the story as I remember).This is an immensely entertaining book, but suffers from some of the problems I see a lot in older SF: the Xik are pure malevolence while the planet Arzor's natives are noble savages whose basic decency is shown by not objecting to humans colonizing them.
I have read this several times over the years. This was the first SF book to introduce man and animals working together as a war team. It was so popular and such a best seller that she wrote a whole series of books about man and animals working and communicating together.
In a strange world where aliens and human colonists share the land, something is disturbing the balance. Storm is caught in the middle. Interesting book and one that is a bit of a cult classic among a lot of readers I know,
Timeless.
I picked this book up because I was curious to see how it compares the movie based off of it. There is no comparison. The fantasy movie has almost nothing to do with this sci-fi book. This is the story of a Navajo tracker with a psychic connection to his team of animals on their quest to hunt down a man on an alien world. This is a well written story of slow-burning revenge.
Held up surprisingly well. YA SF abt Navaho commando wi ties to team of animals.
Or rather, the idea of a man running around communicating with animals is where it ends.
The book is hard sci-fi, there is not a scrap of the fantasy-ish world of the movie.This book is a hard, pulpy sci-fi novel with other planets, futuristic weapons, aliens and all of the good stuff you expect from older works, and it feels very, very dated.I'm not saying I hated it, I just really didn't like it.Hosteen Storm is our savage noble (no, seriously, he's Navajo - she uses "Amerindian" as well, which adds to the dated feel), who is a veteran commando with several animal team members.
I read The Beast Master as a precursor to the companion animal trope; Norton's concept of select men with intimate, near-psychic bonds with animals would later inspire authors like Lackey and McCaffrey towards Valdemar and Pern, and as a forerunner The Beast Master is existent, intriguing, and unsatisfying.
The human/animal bond is compelling and certainly unique, but receives only fringe examination; I can see what inspired later authors to latch on to the idea, and am glad they did.As a novel, the book is quick and engaging but not particularly memorable.
