https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/869817.Erasmus_and_the_Age_of_Reformation
Summary: An elegantly written biography of Desiderius Erasmus describing his life, thought and character as a scholar who hoped to awaken "good learning" and to bring about a purified Catholic church, and the tensions resulting from being caught between Reformers and Catholic hierarchy.It is surprising to me how few biographies I can find of Desiderius Erasmus in online searches, and most of these older works.
If you want to readable introduction to the life of Erasmus, this is a great place to start to understand the life of this humanist scholar overshadowed in some ways by the Reformers.We learn about the early life of this out-of-wedlock son of a Catholic priest, forced by poverty to take monastic vows.
This biography sometimes seems so objective that you cannot unerstand if Huizinga likes Erasmus or not. It is a good thing though. Also, this is quite an actualization of Erasmus. The book explains why Erasmus was important in his days, why he's interesting to a reader of the XX (and XXI!) century.
Like a lot of people, I can become Italy-centric forgetting that the changes in culture, art, religion, science and politics were happening throughout Europe.Erasmus of Rotterdam was self-made intellectual who came of age just as the ability to print was taking off in your Europe.
This Freudian emphasis (Erasmus was a bastard child of a priest who lost his parents early) takes up space that would have been better spent putting more detail behind the political and religious machinations of 16th Century Europe.Notwithstanding the criticism above, this relatively short biography provides insight into the dawn of a new time.
I believe the original title was simply Erasmus of Rotterdam, which gives a better sense of the contents.
This is a straightforward biography without much historical context.
To me that's a shame; I would have loved to have a book that functioned as a sequel to The Autumn of the Middle Ages.
I don't feel like this measures up to Huizinga's other well-known work, but it's a satisfying and somewhat informative read on its own merits.I appreciated the inclusion of selected letters by Erasmus.
He's someone whom I'd like to explore further, but my real priority now is to read a good general history of the Reformation.
In this book, Huizinga presents Erasmus as a literary scoundrel--a man of the press and not a man of the cloth.
I would recommend this book on the strength of that depiction alone.
And Huizinga is a skillful historian, so this book has many other virtues as well.
I'm a little uneasy about his strong criticism of the aging Erasmus, who apparently failed to understand the historical significance of Martin Luther.
Those passages reveal a troubling presentism at the heart of this project--a manifest defense of Protestantism.
But for the most part Huizinga keeps faith with his readers, if not always with his subject.
http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/22900
Een bekwame biografie, zoals je van Huizinga mag verwachten.
En ook, zoals je van hem mag verwachten, meer dan dat.
Huizinga is erg streng voor Erasmus, maar dat is juist om de man eer aan te doen.
Meer dan in andere teksten gaat de humanist hier leven, als een feilbaar mens.Natuurlijk is ook dit boekje alweer een eeuw oud bovendien, dus we zitten op een dubbele verwijdering van de bron.
Als zelfs een vooraanstaand geschiedkundige als Huizinga aangeeft dat het merendeel van Erasmus' teksten niet meer relevant zijn voor onze (zijn) tijd, dan ga ik me er ook niet aan laven.
I remember as a young boy reading about Erasmus in a high school history class. It was the word humanist that impressed me so much about him. It seemed to me to be something worthy of being. As I grew older, I expanded that to consider myself a "universalist." I wanted to include all other life and then even non-living things. Reading about Erasmus it was not quite the same thing as what I believe, but it certainly was a start to a better world.
It describes Erasmus as a christian man in a changing world. Interesting to read, since the popular philosophy does not hightlight this part of his life. He cannot be compared with the humanist we actually know in the western world. Erasmus had still a very close connection with the church and his people, but he tried to find a way in his changing thoughts about faith and religion. A must read for those who want to bring religion across the borders of dogmatic systems.
This book gets a bad rap as being boring, but I think Huizinga does well to show us how Erasmus presaged the Reformation and gives us a nice social history of the age he lived in. Get it from Gutenberg.
None
Erasmus' life is a lesson in how God can use an unlikely (unlikeable) person to further the Kingdom.
His argument is that Erasmus for all his weaknesses is the hero of cultivated humanity.
