https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4898.Blue_Ocean_Strategy
Fortunately for Blue Ocean Strategy, it tends towards the latter.There are a few good ideas in the book, but they are shrouded in unnecessary jargon and applied precariously to far too many companies.
It uses the holy grail of business books: create a structured, numbered framework for analysis (see The 7 Habits of Highly Successful People or The 21 Indispensable Qualities of a Leader or at least 1000 others) and then cherry-pick examples that can fit into the framework (see Built to Last).All this aside, the fact that is directionally correct in advice and contains some thought-provoking ideas earns it a couple of stars.
Unfortunately, I may never be able to sell my business book idea: It's All Due to Luck and Nepotism.
ببساطة الكتاب بيقترح عليك اكتشاف مجال جديد و الخوض فيه و انشاء سوق له ، و توفير جهد المنافسة فى السوق الحالى .. و بيطرح عليك الامكانيات و الخيارات الهائلة التى قد يوفرها لك هذا الاكتشاف ، و التى قد تصل فى اتساعها الى سعة المحيط الازرق .. انه يقترح عليك اختيار اللون الازرق :) ، ايضا ذكر عدة نماذج و امثلة قد تساعدك فى السعي وراء هذا الاكتشاف فى مجال عملك ..
According to Kim and Mauborgne, "Blue Ocean Strategy challenges companies to break out of the red ocean of bloody competition by creating uncontested market space that makes the competition irrelevant...This book not only challenges companies but also shows them how to achieve this.
We first introduce a set of analytical tools and frameworks that show you how to systematically act on this challenge, and, second, we elaborate the principles that define and separate blue ocean strategy from competition-based strategic thought." The material provided by Kim and Mauborgne is essentially worthless, however, unless and until decision-makers in a given organization accept their challenge, are guided and informed by the six principles, and effectively use the tools within appropriate frameworks.
Kim and Mauborgne explain HOW to create uncontested market space wherein competition is essentially irrelevant.
Of course, it falls into the classic trap that all business books seem to fall into, which is looking only at cases that support the theory and ignoring all that don’t.
The theory itself is pretty obvious when you look at it - basically it argues that making a profit in any commodities market boils down to reducing costs, and that when your competitors cannot directly compete against you, you will make much more money.
This is essentially the classic economic picture of perfect competition vs monopoly, and is quite obvious.Furthermore, many of the examples he uses have only a tenuous connection to his theory.
The authors provide case studies on how some companies left their "bloody-red" oceans of competition for completely open blue oceans where they were unique.
Some are well-known business stories, such as Southwest Airlines becoming a low-cost provider.
However, the book provides details into Southwest's underlying business strategies that may not be well known.
Other case studies gave new insight into various companies and their product strategics.
One interesting story, for example, was [yellow tail], the Australian wine company that stepped outside of the traditional wine marketing with a simpler offering targeting casual drinkers.
The book covers the "strategic canvas" for analyzing competitors and planning a new market space.
You can challenge your opponents on a head-to-head competition.
Suppose that your target is to book 200 contracts each month.
In order to fulfil the target you can compete on pricing.
But head-to-head competition has its own limitation.
There is another way to compete.
Chan Kim and Mauborgne propose another solution: don't compete with your competition, why don't you make them irrelevant!
The book idea is to give your customers better services without any head-to head competition.
It gives you a framework helps you to re-design your products/services.
The book is quite easy to read and has an excellent and brilliant idea.
This well-written book seems like common sense however it is an eye-opener for less sophisticated colleagues who doesn't know much about competitive advantage.
Everything in this book is common sense.
Satoru Iwata, Nintendo's CEO, has referred to the Blue Ocean Strategy in interviews.I do think the Blue Ocean Strategy is nothing without execution though.
In fact, execution is easier once you have a strategy.
It does not talk about the majority of examples of Blue Ocean failed or currently marginal businesses:- SPARSH, an innovative computer interface (google Pranav Mistry)- Electric cars, which were invented in 1899!
Over the years being a reasonably good skier has served me well, differentiating myself from many of my peers and has created numerous business relationships and opportunities.Kim and his co-authors take this basic concept and apply it to business.
They suggest that positioning one's company away from popular and hotly contested "red ocean" and moving to less frequented "blue ocean" can pay huge dividends.Blue Ocean Strategy differentiates itself from many business strategy books in that it doesn't simply dwell on this semi-novel strategic formulation, instead it includes numerous tools and suggestions for actively moving a company from red to blue ocean.
all my previous comments/critique was encapsulated on 2 appendixes at the end of the book so it confirmed my assumptions rather nicely. I believe he made for him self a blue ocean consultancy business and this book was the start of it? Beyond the Machiaveli political tips , everything else was around a catchy phrase and that what his main message seems to be. Rest are old theories in new color.
В отличной бизнес-книге должно сочетаться две вещи: идея, которую можно быстро понять, и практические инструменты для её внедрения. Бинго! «Стратегия голубого океана» Рене Моборна и Ким Чана оказалась именно той самой бизнес-книгой, за которую мне не жаль отданных денег. «Единственный способ победить конкуренцию — это перестать пытаться победить». Вот идея книги. То есть перестать бороться с акулами в конкурентном «алом» океане и выплыть в новый свободный «голубой». В центре этого перемещения ст
В отличной бизнес-книге должно сочетаться две вещи: идея, которую можно быстро понять, и практические инструменты для её внедрения.
Вина Yellow Tail как пример открытия сегмента вин для массового, а не только нишевого, потребителя.
Кроме примеров самих океанов, книга даёт принципы создания «голубых» океанов, инструменты оценки текущей конкуренции и её критериев, пересмотра границ рынка, а также посвящает несколько глав подходу к управления изменениями на практике.
Это толковая маркетинговая книга, которая написана нормальным человеческим языком для владельцев бизнеса и топ-менеджеров, и действительно может помочь пересмотреть свои подходы и стратегии.Ну и самое прекрасное, что голубые океаны могут создаваться в любой индустрии, как старожилами рынка, так и новичками.
The premise of this book is that firms should not bother with messy competition, which will limit their profits and keep them warring with other competitors.
The alternative, of course, is "read ocean" strategy - red because there are other fishes in the pond, whose competition will bloody the waters.
The firms that do this, and the examples in the book, have not escaped competition and there advantage does not last for very long on average.Telling someone to go out and follow such a strategy is a little bit like the old joke about the cure to poverty being simple - step 1, get yourself a million dollars; Step 2 .
چگونه بدون درگیر شدن در رقابت میتوان بازار را از آن خود کرد؟ این استراتژی سعی دارد به صورت سیستماتیک و روشمند شما را برای یافتن ایدههای جدید در کسب و کار کمک کند مطالعه کتاب به شدت بهفعالان حوزههای مختلف کاری توصیه میشود
چگونه بدون درگیر شدن در رقابت می‌توان بازار را از آن خود کرد؟ این استراتژی سعی دارد به صورت سیستماتیک و روش‌مند شما را برای یافتن ایده‌های جدید در کسب و کار کمک کند مطالعه کتاب به شدت بهفعالان حوزه‌های مختلف کاری توصیه می‌شود
لا أعتبر نفسي قرأت الكتاب وإنما قمت بدراسته، وإعادة قراءة بعض الفصول فيه أكثر من مرة. سمعت عنه منذ أكثر من ٥ سنوات وتوقعت أن تكون النظريات فيه قد أصبحت بالية ولكنها مازالت تتوافق مع وضع السوق اليوم. يجعلك ترى من أكثر من زاوية وتتعلم من الأمثلة الحقيقية المذكورة في الكتاب. كتاب جيد للمهتمين في الإدارة.
Modeling disruptive innovation is easier read than done.Blue Ocean Strategy comes with the promise of an absolute shift in how you will think about business and just delivers some new interesting frameworks to add to your toolkit.The idea that competitors are fighting in a red sea of blood while there is always a blue ocean of opportunity is very a powerful visual idea that most readers could feel as absolutely disruptive and inspiring.
However is nothing new, it all comes back to the idea of thinking outside of the box, finding a solution that has never been thought of before.But the book comes with the promise of a structural way to deliver and think about how to make this disruption happen.
يصنف الكتاب المنافسة بين الشركات على المساحات السوقية بمثابة كالمحيط الذي يرغب كل المتنافسين على الحصول على أكبر نصيب منه، ولكن الجديد أنه صنفها باللونين الأحمر والأزرق، حيث أشار باللون الأحمر لتلك الأسواق المكتظة بالمنافسين والتي تعمل على مبدأ التنافس وأطلق عليها المحيطات الحمراء حيث نسبة الخسائر عالية والمساحة ضيقة جدا على المتنافسين.
ويذكر أن استراتيجية المحيط الأزرق هي بمثابة تحدي كبير أمام الشركات لتنتشل نفسها من المنافسة الدموية التي تتميز بها المحيطات الحمراء وذلك عبر خلق مساحة من السوق لا منازع فيها بحيث تصبح المنافسة أمرا غير مطروح.
The premise of Blue Ocean Strategy is, as stated on page 4, "Red oceans represent all the industries in existence today.
Blue oceans denote all the industries not in existence today.
This is the unknown market space." So the point of this strategy is to remove your business from the bloody sea of eat-each-other-alive competition and find or create a new field all to yourself.
But none of the examples cited in the book have created any "new industries".
What we have are existing companies who have differentiated themselves from their competition or tapped into a new customer base.
To win big, you need to develop the Blue Ocean Strategy, bu looking into unexplored market.
It is of course easy to see after the facts, but the only way to develop these blue oceans is to try and try and try again.
The unforeseen effect of this book has been the explicit point made in this book: Do not focus on your existing customers because they are relatively happy anyway, and competition is stiff; focus on getting new customers instead as they are the Blues.
Practical advice from one of the bosses at the INSEAD Strategy Institute.
But I like its insights.Some reviewers accuse it of nitpicking evidences, but business is already a tricky area for scientific exactness: there is just too many variables, and this book doesn't (nor tries to) cover all of them.
This is a book about strategy, not a failure-proof-execution-guide.Good place to start when it comes to innovation, since it introduces a "curve of value", that can measure in what companies should innovate and truly generate value for the clients, avoiding small niches and creating a relative monopoly (or "blue ocean") for itself.
What a good book for those who are interested in strategy.
Very clear examples with many case studies on how some companies get a big profit by leaving the traditional red oceans of competitions for blue oceans where they are unique.
In the past 12 years, the strategy of companies has changed a lot, come along with changes in the market, mostly because of the technology revolutions.
Even though I don't find some big "new" things in this book, but many pieces of advice, as well as approaches to blue oceans how to create our own market, are still very useful.
Ознакомившись со «стратегией голубого океана» я стал сомневаться в её существовании после того как конкуренты скопируют её модель. Постепенно, шаг за шагом автор доказал, что данная стратегия и множество эффективных тактических действий на пути её реализации приведёт к отсутствию конкурентов в рамках того же рынка. А автору всё таки же удалось развеять моё сомнение. Я не только поверил в СГО я взял все принципы с этой книги себе на вооружение.Рекомендую её всем предпринимателям, инвесторам и руководителям как обязательную к прочтению.
This is a classic business book about creating new markets rather than competing in existing markets. The core idea is simple, but the authors go through a fairly rigorous (for a business book) system, including how to accomplish this with existing teams and organizations. They provide solid examples of products, companies, and industries where this kind of innovation has happened. Especially since it is so short and clear, it is a good book for anyone in business. It probably would be less interesting to the mass market because it includes mostly “how to” vs colorful examples, though.
It was a booming marketing strategy that suddenly every body talked about. Even my 'ex' boss! With curiousity I bought this book to find out what is this so famous new marketing strategy?!?!? when I finally read the book, actually there is nothing new in it. It is actually the same strategy that I've learned in university. Mainly it talks about DIFFERENTIATION AND BEING DIFFERENT, that's it. Thanks God I didn't buy the original english version that cost a fortune!!
Biznes janrına aid maraqlı bir kitabdır. Amma sadə dildən bir qədər uzaqdır, sanki daha çox dərslik xarakterlidir. Kitabın digər kitablarda olmayan unikal fikir, yanaşmasını bir səhifəlik yazıda ifadə etmək olar. Qalan hissələr isə başqa kitablarda da olan analizlər, müqayisələr, şirkətlərin tarixindən çoxsaylı faktlardır.
Ao ser lido em 2015, este livro soa um tanto datado, seja por tudo o que se escreveu depois sobre negócios e estratégia, seja pelas empresas utilizadas como exemplo. Mesmo assim, fornece uma teoria bem interessante sobre estratégia de negócios que, mesmo em tempos de (já quase pós-) Lean Startup, ainda são relevantes.
Bine, e clar cu principiile, acum urmează crearea unui ocean albastru al non-concurenței într-un domeniu de afacere.
کتاب جالبیه برای طراحی کسب و کار و همش در قالب مثال هایی از بیزینس های موفقه که چطور با ایجاد تمایز، بازار جدیدی برای خودشون ساختن، مثال سیرک آفتاب برام از بقیه جالب تر بود
It's written for larger companies with mass-market products, so small businesses that provide services (like mine) need to put some effort into translating the advice to their situation.According to the book, value innovation happens by 1) saving costs by eliminating and reducing factors and industry competes on, and 2) increasing buyer value by raising and creating elements the industry has never offered."Although some blue oceans are created well beyond existing industry boundaries, most are created from within red oceans by expanding existing industry boundaries … In blue oceans, competition is irrelevant because the rules of the game are waiting to be set.
The main idea is pretty good and there are lots of good cases (I had no idea about the Yellowtail wine story!), lots of good information on how to handle the move towards a blue ocean strategy (specially making sure people are aware of what is going on before making brutal changes) and looking for places where you can improve the business.
They're also very forthcoming in saying that there are no companies that have been producing blue oceans all the time so it's unlikely we'll ever see one, but it's still important to look for it and build it, creating new markets and driving people towards these new markets so you can grow your business or create a new business that is not going to be fighting every step along the way with other incumbents.
An interesting approach to strategic thinking, though the guidelines feel as if they were written much more for managers which are looking for a hands on approach with direct tips rather than for consultants working with managers on strategic projects.
The framework is a classical case study based work which attempts to define the reason behind companies success stories.
Though the methodology of thinking in "blue ocean" terms has merit and I plan to test it out in the field with my own clients, the latter chapters on implementation are fairly weak compared to the literature out there on managing change, leadership, etc.
It is a complicated task to review a non-fiction. So here are the parameters upon which I see the book.Avoiding Redundancy: 3/5Case Studies: 5/5Authenticity: 4/5Readability: 4/5Overall: The book deals with the idea of providing something to people which others are not and in some cases not providing something others are providing. It will revolve around the product differentiation and niche market. I suggest to give it a read as this one plunged deeper into product differentiation and how to stay ahead of the traditional competition.
