https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/54975.Levels_of_the_Game
Un libro sperimentale scritto quasi 50, fa quindi ben prima delle logorroiche trattazioni di David W
If there's any doubt that I am completely in thrall to the miraculous literary powers of John McPhee, the fact that he inspired me to read a book about tennis and that I thoroughly enjoyed it should remove all doubt.
This isn't really a book about tennis as much as it is a battle of the wills between two completely different men who symbolize two very different Americas -- one rich, white and conservative (Clark Graebner) and the other striving, black and open to new ideas (Arthur Ashe).
The fact that this is accomplished in 160 pages without a single extraneous word is further proof of McPhee's literary prowess.
There is a The Master of Go feel to this book.
Two players squaring off, their backgrounds, how that decides what they are, the political and social undercurrents of that time, etc.
While Kawabata's protagonists represented different ages and the different ways of playing the game, McPhee's are of the same age but from as different backgrounds as they can be from.A white male, born to privilege and deep pockets, an only son, and his eye right on the money and the American dream which he knows is within his grasp thanks to his 'social contacts' as he himself says.
Impeccably detailed, this is a great book to get started with John McPhee even if (or maybe "especially if") you don't know or care much about tennis.
As the title suggests, this book goes several levels deeper than the ostensibly titular match, stopping along the way to comment on race, class, athleticism, parenting, civil rights, you name it.
As with other John McPhee books, there is very little glitz 'n glam in the style of Tom Wolfe or Hunter S.
The humility of McPhee's writing style can make the book a bore at times, but it is worth a read nonetheless.
Levels of the Game by John McPhee is a masterpiece of narrative nonfiction. The book narrates a 1968 tennis semifinal point-by-point, while simultaneously profiling the two players, Arthur Ashe and Clark Graebner, and exploring America's politics, history, racism, class structure, and psychology with surgical precision. In following the course of a single tennis match, McPhee illustrates an entire nation.
And even if my reviews were an attempt to remind myself later how I felt - I may have changed.A comparative based review stays relative and is what can aide other people - if somebody wants to know where to start with a McPhee book, it's helpful to read a review that includes the line "It's no Pine Barrens" - this is how I look for review of new Board Games or if I'm purchasing new parts for my computer: what is the standard by which reviews of a certain type hold themselves too?So with no further ado...my review of Levels of the Game------------------You know that episode of Sports Night where Jeremy is having trouble trimming down the video highlights of a baseball game?
Holy shit, this book is good. It's obvious DFW loved it/McPhee. It reminded me, though I'd be hardpressed to put into words why, a bit of W.C. Heinz's The Professional. Mostly just because I so loved both? Heinz's book is a novel, whereas this is nonfic, but there's something about boxing and tennis that feels very similar, and both books drew me in in a way that can be tricky with sports narrative, but when it works I'm all in. Bonus: the word "backswing" is used four times. (And "perfect" = 11x.)
Such an exquisite little book. McPhee writes with such a graceful simplicity and effortless wit. You can really feel his fascination with these men and with the game of tennis. I feel bad writing such a short review for a book I so thoroughly enjoyed, but there's just nothing else to say. It's short and incredibly readable and damn near to perfect.
But like so many great sports stories (“Friday Night Lights”, “Moneyball”) the book is bountiful in cultural examination.
The story boxes outward to include their coaches Dr. Graebner and Dr. John ““behind every tennis player is another tennis player (p.15”, the intimate unblinking eyes of Clark’s wife peering into him, the history of the racial obstacles Ashe has had to compete against white players, and all the pressures put on both men to win this match.Sizing each other up, we get a book that books far beyond the play-by play moments.
I believe I may have seen Ashe play in person when the Clay Courts were in Indianapolis, and also found it entertaining that Graebner and Ashe won the doubles championship together here the year after this book was written.There are so many interesting individuals in this book; when reading about Dr. Johnson, I learned that he died two years after it was published.
After reading Draft No. 4–I felt destined to be a John McPhee fan.
Profiling two contrasting characters to the rhythm and backdrop of a tennis match.
Full of the John McPhee style and one liners I love.
The story was written in 1969, however, and since I’m not a tennis buff—I found the material hard to get in to.
I have no idea who the two main characters are or context to connect.
I think if you’ve been a tennis fan for decades and like sports writing this is a great short read.
In probably less time than the match took, you can relive the Men's Semi-final of the 1968 US Open. Interspersed with the play-by-play account is the backstory of Arthur Ashe and Clark Graebner. They grew up in very different environments but with a similar love of the game. Ashe's biography was most interesting to me. He was cerebral and curious, and yet knew how to keep himself focused when it mattered most. McPhee's writing is masterful, such that this book seems to put a lifetime into a short story.
John McPhee gives us complex, thoughtful profiles of Arthur Ashe and Clark Graebner while following the course of a tennis match they played at Forest Hills in 1968. Graebner is a white conservative from Cleveland who came up in tennis the middle class way. Arthur Ashe was the African-American liberal who broke through the color ceiling in tennis and became an articulate champion of civil rights as well. Much of the contrast in the two men is revealed while they play out points. The tennis itself is beautifully described.
It took me a while to get to this book because the cover and print job are kind of low quality, but with the US Open coming up I decided it would be fun to read about Arthur Ashe and the first US Open. I really loved the style of this book, splicing in biographical details about Ashe and Graebner between hits in a seamless natural way. Reading his description of the two player's styles of play and their personal mannerisms over four sets was surprisingly never boring or repetitive, just entertaining. Highly recommend this quick read.
Notable sentencesIf I walked in to his room and said "I have a bullet in my stomach", Arthur would have said "what else is new?""Tennis is a fight of character. A couple of good shots can build the spirit. It used to be impossible to get into a match with Arthur, because there was no character in his game. It was like hitting against a blackboard.""He plays the game with the lackadaisical, haphazard mannerisms of a liberal."as opposed to "Republican tennis"
This book has no chapters: It's a 150-page essay by John McPhee that begins with the first point and ends with the last point of a semifinals match between Arthur Ashe and Clark Graebner at Forest Hills in 1968. Interspersed throughout are the two players' backstories, which are so different and yet so similar. A remarkable tour de force that can be read in less time than it took Ashe and Graebner to complete their match. Much obliged to the tennis-loving friend who referred this book to me.
This book draws a picture of two tennis players during a US Open semifinal match - Arthur Ashe and Clark Graebner. They are friends because of tennis, but come from two different worlds. Between descriptions of the points of the match, the author inserts quotes from interviews with the players. It is a fascinating window onto the racial attitudes of American and American sportsmen in the late '60s.
This book is an interesting look at a semi-professional tennis match that took place in the late 1960's between Clark Gable, a white, upper middle class Republican, and Arthur Ashe, the first African American in the United States to achieve major prestige in tennis. McPhee examines each players history and the impact that has on their play, as well the tiniest details of the match. Stylistically, this is an anthropological and physiological study of this match, but it reads like a story.
One of the best reads I've ever had. Arthur Ashe has been a hero of mine for years.I'' m just discovering what a fantastic writer John McPherson is and this story is wonderful. What a pity Arthur A. Ford so young. I own a Coby Whitmore painting of AA when he played on Hilton Head and I met this remarkable guy!
It is difficult for a non-fiction book to earn 5-stars from me. This one was very close.It is a great book; it just didn’t have that “stay up too late reading” quality that I look for in a 5-Star book. Otherwise, it is very well written. If you are a sports fan, especially a tennis fan, then you should read this book! I’ll definitely read more from this author in the future.
McPhee's prose is gorgeous and his descriptions remarkable. The structure of this book really does count as a tremendous achievement in and of itself.That being said, although McPhee is simply reflecting the biases of his time, the gender and racial offenses in this book are tough to digest for a modern reader.
A beautifully written book. Charts out the entire contrast of the '60s American society keeping a single tennis match as the fulcrum.An amazing insight into the differences between Clark Graebner and Arthur Ashe on many levels. I should read more of John McPhee.Definitely recommend to anyone remotely interested in tennis/sports.
When a fascinating topic such as this tennis matchup is taken on by the fantastic writer John McPhee, the results can be great. And that’s exactly what has been produced here. Without overt sentiment, McPhee shows us the distinction between the two tennis players and he makes it all so very interesting. Highly recommended.
If you are into tennis, this is a must-read. Mcphee tells the backgrounds of Arthur Ashe and Clark Graebner during their tennis match. It is a riveting book of how both players from very different backgrounds got to that match. It is a super quick read.
More than a tennis match, an excellent look at a social evolution in America.This book was written nearly 50 years ago but the writing is ageless. Even though you may know the ending in advance, you will read every word.
Husband recommended I read this book, and tried to read a few passages out loud to me. It was significantly better when I picked it up myself. Intriguing structure for a short, non-fiction book about tennis. I ended up really enjoying it!
Beautiful, lyrical read on a tennis match between two contrasting players, that brings out the backstory of both perfectly. For any aficionado of sports writing, or writing in general,or a tennis fan, or anyone with a pulse, this is a wonderful book. Must read...
A short and brilliant inside/outside narrative of a two-person game.
I really wanted to love this book but it feels very dated.
Excellent for any tennis fan, or anyone wanting see how to write good non-fiction, sporting or otherwise.
