https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/242654.Up_Front
This is a fascinating collection of Bill Mauldin’s cartoons, drawn while serving as an infantryman, then later as part of the press corps for the US Army in Europe during WWII.
And in this book, the common enemy is the German soldier, and Mauldin is explicit in describing the GI’s point of view.
Book themes for Veterans Day/Armistice Day: Read a book involving veterans of any war, books about WWI or WWII (fiction or non-fiction).
–OR– Read a book with poppies on the cover.
I loved this novel. Written by a comic artist who went to war, we get his version of the war, from a soldiers point of view and also from the point of view of a comedian. His stories were so... readable. I couldn't put it down. I'm not the type to read a war story but he made it entertaining and interesting. I have recommended this book to everyone I know. It's a great, great novel.
If one understands the versatility of that little motor vehicle that was used in so many ways such as hauling mail and chow to the front and the wounded back one could see the attachment the American soldier had for the jeep in WWII.
This is exemplified in the cartoon where the dirty, old, low ranking infantryman is greeted by the clean, teenage-looking bomber pilot officer who exclaims, "Uncle Willie!" Bill Mauldin did for the American combat infantryman what Dilbert's creator did for the lowly office worker hunkering down inside his cubicle.
When I was a kid the book fascinated me, mostly because it reprinted the cartoons Mauldin had drawn for Stars and Stripes, the Army's official news publication distributed to its soldiers in the field.
The drawings were for and about the front-line soldiers, usually wry depictions of the war as they experienced it.
But something about Mauldin's depictions of the "dogfaces" captivated me - and reminded me of my Grandfather's neighbor.
It is interesting reading about the soldier's attitudes and experiences, but Mauldin's real talent was in the drawings.
This is a semi-humorous work about the war.The cartoons are indeed funny, sometimes with an edge, but the text of the work is about the army life in World War II.
How the men in the army didn't hate the Germans until they got there, and never got passion the Europeans did -- though there were some who did (he cites an exiled German), and some who just loved the fighting (whose peacetime occupations were swamp hunter and mafia bodyguard).
Interactions with civilians, down to the guy pacing in front of the medic's station just like in a maternity ward.
Officer/men interactions, and non-coms.
Review is here:https://misterfweem.blogspot.com/2018...
Up Front is a phenomenal book about a man in the WW2 fighting but also writing comics about it too.
Bill Mauldin makes the book funny and interesting to read.
Bill talks about World War 2 and what is happening and how difficult the war is, but he also tells how the men entertain themselves and how they have fun every now and then.
Bill Mauldin also fought in the war he wasn’t just a person that draws cartoons that is why his cartoons are so well written because he was in the war.
Bill Mauldin is a great writer and also a great comic writer.
As a cartoonist, I know how hard it is to draw a good cartoon. Bill Mauldin drew these gems while following an army in the thick of World War II. An amazing feat! His Willie and Joe are classic stereotypes. He presents their plight as it was, muddy, grimy, unglamorous. His own living conditions were probably not much better.
This is one of my favorite books. Bill Mauldin was a cartoonist with the 45th Division News and later Stars and Stripes. But the book is more than background of his Willie and Joe cartoons but a real observation of men in a desperate situation including terrifying combat but also the sheer drudgery and pettiness of the army. Outstanding book.
I got my paper back Bantam Book in 1953. I covered it with contact plastic which is now sticky and yellow. The pages are yellow and fragile but it is 260 pages of great stuff. The name and the area of the war may change but somethings do not change for a GI. Bill Mauldin sat in his foxhole or where ever and made us all laugh.
Just one of the many books I read during my sophomore year in high school INSTEAD of reading either the Odyssey or the Iliad.
A wonderful collection of cartoons capturing the drudgery, gallows humor, and absurdity of the typical GI.
Brilliant, honest and simply written. Bill Maudlin's respect for those he fought with is portrayed in his own unforgettable way.
It's as great now as it was then, when I loved Willie and Joe, Mauldin's characters- but I also got to see Bill's work in the Newspaper- he was still a working cartoonist.
Clearly it worked at the time, as my copy was a Seventh printing done just after the war although the book first debuted just after Operation Dragoon, the invasion of souther France in 1944As already mentioned, this is a GREAT books for kids who might want to read a book FROM the war and not just ABOUT the war.
It's a combination of selections from his famous "Willie & Joe" cartoon strip, and text commentary about both the strips and his experiences as a working cartoonist during the later period of the war, after he had stopped being an infantryman and become a full-time cartoonist for the 45th Infantry Division newspaper and later, "Stars & Stripes." It's an easy read (took me two days), yet makes a strong and vivid impression.
Mauldin was a competent writer who understood what life was like for what we'd call "grunts" today, and he wasn't shy about communicating ugly and unromantic truths, at a time when America preferred to think of its soldiery as knights in shining armor.
I have my Dad's old copy, signed with a fountain pen, a little dog-eared from many readings.
One of our neighbors down the street was a paratrooper, jumped into Normandy on D-Day. One of my Mom's cousins was married to a doctor who was an Army Air Corps flight surgeon.
Mauldin is a keen observer and an honest voice, only 23 or 24 years old when he wrote it.
An excellent book by the famous World War II cartoonist.
Mauldin states in the opening sentence that his business is drawing, not writing, but he does a pretty good job at writing and a great job at drawing.
All in all it's a darn good account of the life of the infantryman; being written while the war was still being fought gives it a sense of immediacy that a book written long after the war, when memories aren't so fresh makes it, to me, more authentic.
A wonderful artifact.
Mauldin's famous cartoons are familiar, of course, but it's his writing that really makes this book special.
His commentary on life at the front is as pointed as his illustrations, and his stream-of-consciousness text flows through his cartoons -- they appear on almost every page -- and often he explains what inspired a particular cartoon.
There are no chapters, and the whole book seems like he's telling you about his experiences as they occur to him.
It's only at the very end, after he has prepared most of the book and is ready for the printers, that he reflects on the "I'm writing a book" process.
A good reminiscence piece from the foot soldier's viewpoint.
Mauldin's iconic Joe and Willie cartoons from WW2 were a tour de force for the U.S. citizenry during that terrible time of history.
I was born at the end of the war, so had no personal acquaintance with Mauldin's work until the '50s.
But reading his narrative was an enjoyable look back into that time, a time that my family recalled and reviewed during my elementary and adolescent years.
That period of history is steeped in the American participation that helped end the treachery and brutality of Nazi Germany's grip on Europe and the Japanese empire that terrorized the Pacific.
Mauldin's journal contains enriching cartoons (his strength) and some compelling first-hand accounts of the behind-the-scenes happenings during WW II.The details in his exploits contain both overt and succinct commentary about the unknowns of being in an actual war as an infantryman. Not one branch, however, escapes this author's polite praise and targeted criticism. Reading this book and examining the captivating cartoons capture a reader's admiration for some of the sufferings and heroism of the many who sacrificed in the war. Just seeing the cartoons is worth the book's time.
Written in 1945, before the end of hostilities in Europe, the book has a very immediate feel. It is real and the humor is used to convey the reality of life at the front (I wasn't on the front line, I was 300 yards behind it) in a way that makes it more accessible and believable than a bald retelling of simple facts would. Through the drawings and personal notes Mr. Mauldin brings about an empathy that would otherwise be unattainable.
Written during the final year of WWII while the author was still stationed overseas, Up Front is an on-the-moment, almost stream of consciousness work that chronicles the thoughts of average GIs on all aspects of a soldiers life from overbearing martinets to the desperate need for distraction from rain, mud and monotony.
Classic WW II cartoonist featuring Willie and Joe, writes to accompany the cartoons. Published in 1944, the book reached a wide audience of vets and family. Timeless in its simplicity, I highly recommend.
So far the book is interesting. I am not really a fan of Historic War Novels but it's a good book to start reading in the genre. I also like the illustrations it makes the book look more appealing to other readers who prefer books with pictures. Overall it's a pretty good book.
This was a great book. Written by a cartoonist during World War II. He even includes some of his cartoons in the book. The writer gives you a different perspective on the war, which is refreshing to come across. This book is worth the read.
excellent book
Bill Mauldin is the greatest war cartoonist. His creations, Joe and Willie, live on.
Another heartfelt and warm tribute to the "dogfaces" at the front. A slim volume that my father (who was in France in 1944 and 45) bought right after the war.
An inside look at the gripes, complaints, and victories of the front line soldiers of WWII. Bill Mauldin's cartoons tell the story in a down-to-earth, in-the-battle perspective of the men who fought.
The combat man isn't the same clean-cut lad because you don't fight a kraut by Marquis of Queensberry rules.
He tricks you and cheats you, and if you don't beat him at his own game you don't live to appreciate your own nobleness."This excerpt from Bill Mauldin's book "Up Front" is featured on the first page and I believe it was a good call by the editor.
Bill Mauldin was a cartoonist during the war for "Stars and Stripes" and almost every page of the book features one of his cartoons.
