https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/139647.A_Pin_To_See_The_Peepshow
There have been several true crime books about the case, two TV adaptations, at least two plays, several TV documentaries, mentions in Agatha Christie’s novel Crooked House, a number of legal examinations of whether the trial and sentence were valid, a biography of Thompson, a novel by Molly Cutpurse (A Life Lived) speculating about what might have happened to Thompson had she lived, fiction based on the case has come from P D James, Dorothy L Sayers and Anthony Cox and last but not least James Joyce was fascinated by the case and used transcripts of the trial extensively in Finnegans Wake.The title of this novel comes from an incident when sixteen year old Julia Almond (Thompson in the novel) is looking after a class of younger children at her school.
We are told that she has a long neck and lovely brown hair but as for beauty, I think that was rather embellished in her own head.Julia has a huge crush on her teacher Miss Tracey but has the need to be constantly the centre of attraction, she even pushes Miss Tracey to the limit to get attention.As she gets older and leaves school she still looks upon her parents a rather beneath her and dull, there seems to be little love in the family home.
Having got a good job and a little more responsibility at work, Julia longs for romance.
Julia begins work at an upmarket dressmakers, where the society women who own the shop lead a very different life, which includes the ability to divorce an unsatisfactory or dull husband with practically no scandal, something that women in Julia’s own class is unable to do.
I did really enjoy this book – and maybe it is not my all-time favourite virago book – not sure what they would be anyway – but it is a brilliant read, and I can see why it has proved to be so popular.
From an early age Julia Almond, only child of conventional and ‘respectable’ lower middle class parents, knows that she is special.
Julia had prized her own room and cannot bear sharing.
Although there is the usual disclaimer that the characters in the book are ‘entirely fictitious,’ Julia Almond and Leonard Carr are based on Edith Thompson and Frederick Bywaters who, in 1922, were jointly convicted of murdering Edith’s husband; this in spite of the fact that Frederick Bywaters insisted that he had acted alone.
Paradoxically the price Julia has to pay for her escape is soul crushingly high and the stage is et for the doomed love affair that follows.In many ways Julia could be viewed as a silly women, she has no intellectual gravitas, unlike her friend Anne who becomes a doctor .
But how dearly she pays for her afternoon in the sun.The last part of the novel based on some of the actual transcripts of the Thompson Bywaters case is a terrifying indictment of the criminal justice system, and the way it dealt and still deals with women who dare to transcend their appointed roles.Well worth a read, as well as a fascinating insight into social history in and around The First World War
Old fashioned feminist potboiler, and bloody good.
I wish I hadn't known about the background story but it would be almost impossible not to, even though Virago does its best by placing an afterward at the end of the book as opposed to a prologue at the beginning, which would have ruined it completely for everyone.It's so easy to pinpoint people's mistakes in life as the cause of their problems, and FTJ does point out all of the bad decisions that Julia makes, but she also does something much more difficult, which is getting the reader to feel pity for a flawed human being.
Based on a true story, Julia is (SPOILER) a poorly educated, ambitious, highly romantic young woman who ends up on death row for allegedly assisting in the murder of her husband.
Jesse does a wonderful job of creating a completely unorthodox female character who is both likeable and tragically misguided.
She also give a compelling feminist reading of the guilty verdict Julia receives arguing that she is condemned to death for having an abortion more than for her very minimal role in her husband's murder.
Additionally, Jesse's portrayal of early twentieth-century London is so vivid that you truly feel you are there.

An important work which demonstrates how real social change was desperately necessary within British society during the early part of the twentieth century, particularly for women and the working classes. Although the writing is at times both plodding and over wordy and the characters not deeply drawn, I was still fascinated by the descriptions of society at that time. Also, for anyone who ever thought that punishment by hanging was a good idea, I recommend that they read 'Night Piece to Julia', the final section of the book, while still sustaining their opinion.
This is a brilliant novel! It should be more widely read. It inspired Sarah Waters in writing The Paying Guests. It was also inspired by the famous Thompson/Bywaters case. The final section is chilling and will make you angry and sad at the way women were treated by the justice system. Julia is like a tragic 1920's Madame Bovary.
Synopsis: a fictionalized account of the life of Edith Thompson of the "Ilford murder" case of 1922. She and Frederick Bywaters were hanged.
On Goodreads, a site now owned by Amazon, I was introduced to this book by readers who pointed out that it was perhaps the inspiration for Sarah Waters' The Paying Guests.
I loved the language, the descriptions of Julia's internal life with its simple hopes and dreams and the very real descriptions of her real life, the life of women of her class in England in the early 19th century.
How cruel that she was so restricted and her simple hopes were dashed by societal pressure.
I am glad I have waited so long to read it.
I can fully appreciate this stunning tour de force!Utterly moving, dramatic, humorous, enchanting journey back in time via tram/omnibus.
I have lived Juila's life through these pages.
My heart in my mouth right up till the climatic ending.
Making all the more moving & harrowing a story having been based on the infamous case at the time.
Also having read Sara Waters paying guests also based upon the case I can say hand on my heart this leaves all others in the dark.
Oh such brilliant sadness that is literature, life, love and living!
In some ways so old fashioned, in others a brilliant commentary of the times. Especially the bits about how Herbert liked his bacon cut, WW1, the clothes, the food, the family dynamics, the shop and above it all Julia Almond. This is a book I return to again and again.
