https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/161651.Emily_Post_s_Etiquette
Along with the basics, like when to write a thank-you note, which fork to use, how to act at various religious ceremonies, what to wear to a semi-formal wedding in November (for example), at what age children should be saying "please" and "thank you," the "who pays?" date dilemma, how to handle a party guest who stays too long, and how much to tip for various services (hotel room-service, wine stewards, pool cleaners, etc.), this book has additional sections on modern society.
(If it's already moving, the woman; if it's not, the man goes through first to get the heavy door going.)-What DOES "business casual" actually mean?
Flash-forward 95 years to EMILY POST'S ETIQUETTE, NINETEENTH EDITION.
I miss the old general-purpose guides like MISS MANNERS' GUIDE TO EXCRUCIATINGLY CORRECT BEHAVIOR (a book that so embodied humor even its title is a bit humorous) -- or, for that matter, the original 1922 Emily Post ETIQUETTE with its endearingly annoying types like "Mr. Gotrox" or "Mrs. Toplofty" who exemplify bad behavior whatever their intentions.
Lately a kind of alt-field of etiquette books has emerged, the kind written for well-intentioned people who occasionally use the "F" word, so to speak -- those have LOTS of humor, much of it sardonic.
This book is a classic and a must for any young woman. I read it cover to cover when I was 21 as it was a gift from my grandmother. It is a pity that so many of these graces and little niceties are going by the wayside in the modern world. I think our youth today would greatly benefit from this book. Should be required reading!(Note: I do not find the Peggy Post revised editions as good as the original Emily Post guides.)
This book is a must-have for every home. I coveted it for years until finally someone - my father - acknowledged my unhealthy obsession with etiquette was best abetted by adding to the bookshelf. The thumbed guide and index make this an effortless reference book. Confession: Sometimes I come home from social gatherings and secretly chronicle what my friends have done that Emily Post would abhor with a silent head shake.
Ah, to be gently guided in behaving correctly.
It's what separates us humans from the rest of the animals and that separation is, at times it would seem, quickly closing together.
This is a wonderful book.
It should be on everyone's bookshelf and referred to so often as to be dog-eared and falling apart.
I love this book.
I love that it can give me patience and restraint when I want to misbehave, say the wrong thing and act like a buffoon in public.
I love that it gives me great examples for my sons.
If only the rest of society felt even slightly the same.
Well I feel more confident in my Interpersonal relations now. So basically, don't say what I'm actually thinking. Got it.
Just one problem: what good is knowing the rules if no one else knows them (or even cares about them)?
I read this book for one reason....I wanted to know what rules I was breaking. I like to make my social mistakes on purpose.
This book gave me a good overview of basic etiquette for events, which is particularly helpful during the current busy holiday season filled with many visiting guests.
My favorite excerpt is from Chapter XXV: "As soon as her guests appear in the doorway, the hostess at once rises goes forward smiling, shakes hands, and tells them how glad she is that they have safely come or how glad she is to see them, and leads the way to the tea-table.
Well-written and incredibly detailed etiquette advice for virtually every situation. However, I am not quite sure how to use this book. For most people, I don't think reading it cover to cover would truly improve their manners, and people who commit minor etiquette offenses like using the wrong the utensils are probably unlikely to look up the correct method in this 700+ page volume.
It helps to explain those social situations where you dont know what to do or what to say.
It isn't all about what fork to use, rather, it explains what it means to be a polite and gracious person in your family, your circle of friends, your work and in society in general.
Simple things that too often people forget, like making sure you greet everyone when you enter a gathering, or making sure that you the first thing out of your mouth when you get home is more akin to "how was your day" or "I missed you!" rather than "Dinner is on the table." It explains the proper responses to tricky things too, like who to invite to a wedding or how to graciously thank people.
I really love this book.
It's more of a resource than merely a book.
It lives and breathes as society and norms evolve and morphs through time.
I've been a loyal fan of the "Awesome Etiquette" podcast since it's inception so I HAD to secure my own copy of the newest (19th edition!
) of Emily Post's Etiquette book.
The rules the authors live and teach resonate strongly with me: Consideration, Respect, & Honesty.
Manners are for EVERYONE and if you are in doubt about how to respond to any situation, this is the resource for you to consult.
Etiquette should not be a foreign word!
Pick this up, let's be more like ladies and gentlemen!
There was a time that manners meant something, now the boys wear their clothes low to show off their boxers - do they know what that means in prison?
Could somebody please tell these boys that if they were in prison, wearing their pants below their buttholes means they are available?
It is easy access for Butch??....and for girls who wear their clothes too tight!
Take time to learn how to go to dinner and eat at the table with utencils!
Parents learn yourself while teaching your children!
Best enjoyed in good company. I read this aloud with friends over a period of cold winter nights. The disparity between expected public behavior to that of a century ago is laughable (or deplorable). Makes for great conversational fodder. I expect to pull this out again for a dinner club I'm starting. Another great surprise - my copy has my grandmother's notes in the margins from when it was required reading in college in the 1940's.
Emily Post Etiquette: Manners for a New World only reminds me of the things that a human needs to know and actions in a different kind of situation. Social Grace is now forgotten nowadays especially by ordinary people like me in an ordinary days, mostly in important events.
NOT ENOUGH PEOPLE OWN THIS BOOK. BUY IT. READ IT. TAKE IT TO HEART.
Emily Post has helped me be courteous, responsible and respectful across my childhood, teens and early adulthood.
Detailed guidelines that showcases Etiquette for everyday life, relationships, children and teenagers, communication and protocol, dining and entertaining, celebrations and ceremonies applicable to various cultures (Catholic, Protestant, Islamic, Asian), Weddings, you and your job and travel and leisure!Even specific real-life account questions answered by Peggy Post!
Courtesy is contagious and etiquette must be active.
This classic may be a lengthy read but I highly recommend it for children, teens and adults.

This book is a fantastic resource that everyone will likely benefit from. As a person with a severe mobility disability, I particularly appreciated the special section devoted to etiquette and disability. The authors offer truly valuable advice about how people with disabilities like to be treated just as everyone else, and how able-bodied individuals can do so in a non-awkward manner. The resources section in the back of the book discussing how to eat various types of food was also useful, especially from the perspective of someone who enjoys trying new restaurants!
Helpful guide for proper etiquette. Now that I'm living on my own and making my own life and navigating social functions and situations completely by myself, I felt like I needed a little polishing as I lack a great deal of experience. This was very insightful and has caused me to feel more sure of myself.
A wonderful resource and a comprehensive guide to navigating social situations.A few warnings for the reader: some of the advice regarding technology is dated but that is likely due to the year this particular edition (the 17th) was written. Also, this book is American-centrique and Christian-centrique.
I can't say enough good things about this book! Every time I page through it, I'm amazed at how thorough and wonderful it is. Even the trickiest situations I can think of are addressed and this new edition includes etiquette for our modern lives as well as older traditions. The best part is, the book is flawlessly put together and provides all this amazing information without ever once being condescending or cold. I'll definitely be keeping a copy of this as a reference in my home!
This is an excellent guide to modern etiquette. It explains in detail everything one would need to know to be a polite, well-mannered person. I will have to say that this book made me realize how much I am lacking in manners myself!
Just outstanding. Completely up to date with mobile phone and Internet protocols. Easy to read with a clean format. 700 pages is a bit daunting. However, this is a reference book that I will definitely turn to again and again!
Excellent reference for every social occassion. Will read topics again and again as needed.
This book is fun & informative & applicable to everyday life.
Love it!!!!!!
A detailed and helpful guide to etiquette. A variety of topics are covered, from personal to professional life and events.
Timeless advice in a world void of good manners
Perhaps in 100 years it would be interesting to someone wondering about a general overview of social mores of our time, or perhaps a studious immigrant would want to read it to get a general idea of what people think is polite in America.For an immigrant from a less violent country, this would perhaps be especially useful as the book repeats several times how important the advice is to keep you from being killed.
And I am sure I will find the mosh pit instructions very useful at some point in my life.Otherwise- the book is meant as a reference, but in 2015 is there even a place for reference books of any kind, especially cultural reference books?
