https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/540489.Wise_Child
There is no book more central to my development as a human being than this one. I can't possibly review it critically. Some good points include a lovely style of guardian/parenting and a true acceptance/tolerance of other faiths. I also appreciate that the herb references are accurate, but that's probably because I'm a little nutty.
Recently re-read this, and found it again to be the rare kind of book that makes me want to work harder and be a better person (usually only George Macdonald can do that!). And it is a wonderful story from an excellent writer, one whose work mainly dealt with mysticism and the lives of certain Christian mystics. Furlong had a beautiful mind, and I wish she'd written more fiction!
This and Ellen Kushner's Thomas the Rhymer were hugely, HUGELY important to young me. Why, WHY didn't anyone tell 1990s me about Diana Wynne Jones?!?
Kids always think they got everything first.) Getting to the ACTUAL book at hand for a moment, the "witches" in questions are Cornish and Scottish.
I loved best (better than the witchery and really nice husbandry building your own world through hard work and order) the feeling of the girl Wise Child coming up in her world and learning through repeated knuckles on bruises (Juniper refuses to beat her, though.
Wise Child is the relative from the past that you look at in photographs and appreciate but don't carry that photograph around in your wallet for day-to-day affirmation (I'd totally wear a "What would Tiffany Aching do?" bracelet).B. Mariel's scale of wish-everything-was-that-awesome-fantasy-stories:The Secret of Roan Inish.
Opnieuw gelezen favoriet boek, een boek waarin ik veel terugvind over (en me eraan herinnert ook) hoe ik in het leven wil staan en mijn best doe te staan. Mooi verhaal!
it brings back memories of nicking chamomile tea from my grandmother's cabinet, drinking it and thinking about life and such.In this book, Wise Child finds herself living with the compassionate Juniper who treats the ailments of people in a Scottish village even though they look at her with suspicion and fear.Which annoys me.If someone is REALLY in the league with the devil, why would they take so much effort to heal you?
Juniper is so kind to Wise Child, to the villagers, despite being a bit of an outcast because she's not Christian, but more of a believer in the unity of nature and using her powers for good.I really have to stop this book at the last couple of chapters because they bug me.
Oh, Wise Child. You are so ornery and lazy and lucky. Re-reading this and Juniper for the first time in several years made me wonder if they had something to do with my desire to do nothing but milk cows and spin/dye wool and bake simple foods for the rest of my life. Oh, and do magic. Duh.But in all seriousness: a quiet, calm book that I love to a ridiculous extent. I fear the day my copy falls apart and I can't find a new one because it's stupidly out-of-print.
Oh de nostalgie. Dit boek speelde een belangrijke in mijn jeugd.
(Elizabeth George Speare's The Witch of Blackbird Pond succeeds in a similar way, I think, and I'm sure there are many many others I'm forgetting.) And as a parent, it's such a thrill to remember that books like this exist and to look forward to reading this with my daughter.
Something else that struck me throughout the book was what an excellent parent Juniper makes.
Perhaps Parenting the Juniper Way, or The Doran's Guide to the First Five Years?
I read Wise Child 15 years ago and loved it so much that I introduced it to our students and staff at our wilderness school, Hawk Circle.
The Wise Child books have now become a must read for just about every one that comes through our programs.
I especially love Juniper and her incredibly wise way of teaching and mentoring.
The story of Wise Child and Juniper has become so potent at our place that I've started a Juniper Retreat where I will be teaching many of the herbal and healing skills that are woven through out the story.
Can't wait!
"Wise Child, come to me, over the land and hill and sea..." That simple line has become a haunting sing-song in my mind, and I've been unable to forget it ever since I first read Wise Child by Monica Furlong when I was younger.
It is not a difficult book to read, and it's easy to get wrapped up in Wise Child's story.
With no one to turn to after her grandmother dies, she becomes the ward of the (rumored) witch Juniper.
As she spends more time with the woman, though, she learns that appearances and rumors often have no basis on the character of a person.
The main character is interesting and captures a striking feeling of truth in her narration.
Overall, very unique.Cons: It feels like lots of characters were ignored, when their development might have strengthened the point of the story.
Wise Child herself is the only character who really grows at all.
The main weakness is a looseness of plotting, which ends up making Wise Child feel like an incomplete memoir instead of a cohesive novel.
The final sentences seem to tell what the author wanted the book to be about, but that ending doesn't quite mesh with what she has given readers.Overall.
I fetched the broomstick to humor her, but I thought I'd better have the housework problem out with her right away.'I don't like cleaning or dusting or cooking or doing dishes, or any of those things,' I explained to her.
He who thinks we are good entirely by our own endeavors?' Juniper asked.
'The man's a fool.'"I also like how the inquisitor, asking Wise Child about Juniper, brought out that the disliking of Fillan was not because he was a Christian but because he was not kind.
I kept some, the books I had loved and read over and over.
Not long ago, I went looking for the box in their garage because I wanted something from the stash, and I rediscovered the full trove I'd saved, and I'm grateful to my younger self.
It's always chancy to re-read a book you loved as a child; some of them lose their magic when read by one's adult self.
I admire, too, the book's fundamental respect for children: their feelings, their fears, their impatience and intelligence and bravery, the way they see the world.
how is this SO GOOOOOD and I had never heard of it until Shannon recommended it?! This is a lost treasure of fantasy young adult literature.
I simply couldn't put it down.
Furlong writes with a delightful sense of humour, and conveys a subtle sense of each character's personality, without going into belaboured descriptions.
I had read Juniper years ago, and although I liked it well enough to want to read Wise Child, I had never quite imagined how sophisticated this book would be.
I'm pleased to see that the different publishing companies didn't demand new cover art with each edition, because the painting is almost divinitive in it's Tarot like mystery.
While reading this book, I was totally unconscious of any sort of affected style in the writing.
I was simply there.
This book was recommended to me by one of my young friends.
I probably would have dreamed of having a life like Wise Child.It's a lovely coming-of-age story.
A slower, softer kind of fantasy that explores how a young girl, over time, learns about witchcraft.
I like the authenticity of Wise Child's struggles.
My only criticism is that Juniper (Wise Child's mentor) seems to be a bit too "perfect." This has always been a pet peeve of mine.
Perhaps when I read the prequel (and I plan on it) I will change my mind about her.
Coming to it as an adult, I didn't get quite so absorbed.While I still very much enjoyed it, I didn't feel particularly connected to the text.
Juniper at times seemed a little too idealized, and despite the fact it was told from Wise Child's first person POV, I felt a sort of odd disconnect between the narrator's voice and the actual tale.
It is being told from the adult Wise Child's perspective, but still...
I really loved the parenting/mentoring relationship between Juniper and Wise Child, especially as a positive bond between two women.
The message of love and tolerance was lovely without feeling at all forced.
Wise Child is abandoned by her parents and the only person in the village who offers to take her in is Juniper, the strange woman who everyone says is a witch because she isn't married, doesn't go to Mass, and heals the sick.There is beautiful imagery in this book, which is why I've always liked it; the descriptions of the colors and plants and other items are wonderful.
The character of Juniper seems a little too perfect, but Wise Child balances that out with her childhood stupidity.
I always found the ending to be too quick and unsatisfying, unfortunately.
Still, this is a book I'm sure I'll continue to enjoy over the years.
Hands down, all time favorite book growing up. I still read it on average once or twice a year even now. If you know any kids around fourth or fifth grade that somehow haven't read HP yet, get this to them first! It can't compare with the blatant magic/high-fructose energy of HP. This is a more natural setting where the magic/otherworldly happenings sometimes have a more 'real' explanation, but it's up the reader to decide what to believe. Loves!
read these books a long time ago, should really read them again, I don't remember much from this series, except for the feeling they gave me. Something with a cave and hunderds of herbs hanging from the ceiling of a cottage. The fact they stayed with me for all these years, makes me think they should get at least 4 stars.
One of my favorites fantasy books ever, hands down.
Wowie!!
Wise Child is an endearing YA novel about a 9-year-old girl who is mentored by witch named Juniper.
The protagonist is orphaned and then gets taken in by the wise and kind Juniper.
Wise Child gets taught the fine arts of herbology, magic, and witchcraft.
Her beautiful mother, Maeve, wants to take her back, and Wise Child is torn between being loyal to her mother and learning the art of witchcraft from Juniper.
There were many fine YA novels during the 80s, when this novel was published, but Wise Child remains one of the enduring masterpieces of young adult literature.
Erg mooi, en lief verhaal over een meisje Leane dat in huis genomen wordt door Juniper. Juniper staat in het dorp bekend als heks. Leane is eerst heel bang maar laat al snel haar angsten los. Ze leert ontzettend veel van Juniper en gaat steeds meer van haar houden! Het boek is op een dusdanige manier geschreven dat je zelf ook veel van Juniper gaat houden 😊, goed dus! Ik ga zeker ook deel 2 snel lezen
wat ben ik blij dat ik dit waanzinnig mooie en goede boek eindelijk gelezen heb. wat ben ik verliefd op dit verhaal, wat een talent, wat een verhaal!
I read this one a long, long time ago and loved it.
Research-gewijs opnieuw uit de kast gehaald. Het valt me op hoe traag het verteld is, hoeveel pagina's er naar beschrijvingen van huis en tuin gaan. Maar geen klachten daarover: die stukken vind ik vaak nog het mooist.
Wise Child is a lovely book, a story about a spoiled girl who grows up a bit, but not by getting the fight squished out of her or losing her sense of self.
I liked this book a lot when I was very young, but I haven't read it in years; it was nice to come back to it and see how much insight it offered me, the way it deals with learning and relationships, and the natural world.
Which is a bit odd, because there is a lot of real danger from other people in the book, there's an evil witch and a malevolent priest, and Wise Child works her way through a lot of distressing emotions.
Wise Child has to do a lot of work at Juniper’s house and doesn’t like that, but it’s a far cry from being a human sacrifice.
I had a couple of problems with the book; there are a few anachronisms (there were no fuchsias in the old world in that time and place) and the fact that while the other characters seemed realistic (Wise Child vacillates between happy and fretful at having to work so hard, which any 8 year old would), Juniper seems too good to be true.
