https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/372858.Long_Summer_Day
Time covered is roughly twenty years and the characters are varied and three dimentional.
I feel like I know them so personally that if I was to travel to Shallowford now, a hundred years later, there would be no "empty chairs at empty tables" but the fields would be alive, ringing with scythes and familiar laughter, the villagers I know putting down their burdens to wave or lend a hand.Yes, I would be very sad to leave these folks but there's no need for tears yet as I've got two more books in the series to read :)On to POST OF HONOR!CONTENT:SEX: A number of non-explicit, but frank encounters, mostly behind closed doors.VIOLENCE: One murder, a few knock outs, suffragest violence.PROFANITY: Mild, mostly DsPARANORMAL ELEMENTS: One character of gypsy background reads cards to herselfMY RATING: PG-13RECOMMENDED READING AUDIENCE: Adult
1966: A Horseman Riding By (published in the USA as two novels, Long Summer Day and Post of Honor) Description: Paul Craddock is still young when he is invalided out of the army after the Boer War and he discovers the neglected estate of Shallowford in a secluded corner of Devon.
It seems remote from the march of progress.
Reading this novel is like stepping into the setting's thirteen-hundred-acre estate in a neglected and antiquated corner of England in the early 1900s.
The time is that following the death of Queen Victoria, when cars were beginning to rule the roads and radical women were fighting for the right to vote.
Young Lieutenant Paul Craddock had been injured in the Boer War and instead of continuing with civilian life in London, he idealizes a gentler time during Victorian England.
The author, R.
With this novel, he became one of Britain’s most popular authors, and his novels have been adapted as TV series.
This is one that truly turned around for me.
It started so slowly as I was not well connected with any of the many characters and the descriptions of the English countryside, although beautifully written, interrupted the flow of the book for me.
I was transported back to the turn of the century English countryside where a unlikely candidate to buy a vast country holding with many tenants did so and the new squire becomes solidly entrenched in his new position taking to the land as if he has grown up as heir and successor.
A very long but very interesting historical novel, set around a small Devonshire valley with its squire and farms in the beginning of the 20th century. The political situation of the era is described in detail too, with all its upheavals and the tremendous suffering of the Suffragettes. I look forward to reading the sequel.
From the Boar War to the coronation of George V - one man's tale of recovery and rich life touching many. Quite a bit of sentimentality here but I didn't mind it. The Suffragette thread interested me the most. On to POST OF HONOR, book two in A Horseman Riding By.
A very interesting historical novel, with several themes. I really liked the suffragettes theme. Some long descriptive passages kept me from giving it 5 stars. An excellent read.
Delderfield uses devices such as a gull flying in search of food all throughout the valley so we can see what each character is up to every few years and realize that we have read that a few dozen pages before.So why read this book.
One that has things we should take a peak at.It is a historical, and certainly in some of the characterizations we see an older, male hand trying to write the mind of a teenager, which does not work (Delderfields worldly wise Grace is too worldly wise and her adult assumptions should be changed for simpler emotional and youthful ones IMO.) But as mentioned, worth a read, and perhaps one day worth a reread immediately following a reread of God is an Englishman.
My ARC courtesy of NetGalley and Open Road Media - much thanks!
This was a wonderful examination of Edwardian England, with the majority of the story taking place in Shallowford, a rural valley in Devon, but with the forces from the Suffragette Movement and the looming war with Germany impacting even this protected valley.
The story centres around Paul Craddock, a city-bred Lieutenant invalided out of the Boer War with a near fatal injury, who takes his inheritance from a scrap metal yard and buys a thirteen-hundred-acre estate in rural Devon that has been allowed to run down and become rather derelict.
This is a long book, but an enjoyable read beginning in 1901 and ending in 1911. https://piningforthewest.co.uk/2018/0...
Unexpected gem of a find. Slow start, as character development needed to happen but wonderful book, particularly if you are an Anglophile.
Well, they're both really long, and they tell a story of a period of a time rather than any one character.Long Summer's Day follows Paul Craddock, who, after an injury, buys Shallowford and becoems Squire Craddock.
Or it could because Grace was somehow too unique, and I didn't like her because I didn't understand her.This is a long, winding read, and it's at its best when the author is just letting the story speak.
But thankfully, such moments are few, and the book is a lovely read because it manages to tell the tale of many people in a straightforward manner.I would definitely recommend to fans of long reads like Fall of Giants.
Rather than take up the work his father left behind, Paul is determined to invest in a large estate of farms and horses.
Along the way, he must choose between two very different lady loves.Delderfield creates a large cast of well developed characters in this novel, though some do seem to have ideas and abilities beyond their years.
If you are interested in everyday life in the first decade of the 1900s, you will love this book.
And I decided I loved it.*******Well, this is a bit of an odd one to review.
The ending was slightly altered to suit this combined edition, too--I cross-referenced its last few pages with the standalone text of Long Summer Day. I loved the story, even sped through it at a clip of roughly 150 pages a day, but I'm still undecided on whether or not to immediately jump into the second book, Post of Honor.
It feels a bit strange to say I'm "done" with a book when my bookmark argues that I'm only halfway through.

Great! I am adding this to my list of books I have enjoyed from first sentence to last. Discovery of a new favorite author.
To discover which of these women Paul chooses, you'll have to read the book for yourself!The personal stories of the characters are played out against a backdrop of events from Edwardian history: Edward VII's illness and delayed coronation, the political conflict between the Conservative and Liberal parties (it's plain to see where the author's own political sympathies lie) and the beginnings of the suffragette movement.
We also find out how the characters react when change and progress finally makes its way to the Devon countryside and they see their first 'horseless carriage'.Long Summer Day is one of my books of the year so far, without a doubt.
This is the first book of a Trilogy - "Long Summer Day".
There was a British mini-series based on this series which I bought and watched and for the most part reflects the book.
Not sure the mini-series will go as far as the Trilogy in time.
Basically it is about a wounded British soldier from the Boar War who buys a large estate made up of several large farms and how he transfers it from a losing proposition to an estate that is profitable.
Book 2 will be covering the first World War.

Interesting treatise of turn of the century English country life in Devon.
Paul Craddock becomes Squire of a large parcel of land that has 6 farms on it.
The story is about his life as overseer and owner, marriage, and the people who work his land.
They speak in a dialect "us'n; baint, you'm, theym" and use z for s, e.g. zeen for seen.
Lots of descriptions of the scenery of each farm.
Its slow moving as it touches on a few topics--introduction of motor cars, suffragettes, marriage, sluts, elections, town parties.
It is about a very different world in the early 20th century.
Paul Craddock, despite being city born, comes back injured from the Boer war and decides he wants to try out farming.
He is able to buy a big, run down estate in the West Country as his father had been a successful scrap metal merchant.
Despite hating his fathers trade the money from it enable him to develop his small estate.
It is about how he develops his new persona and grows in confidence and includes lots of interesting descriptions of the very different tenants on his estate.
I "inherited" this from a family member and was skeptical about it, as it didn't look like the sort of thing I would usually enjoy, but to my surprise I loved it. It captures the essence of the countryside perfectly; the plot manages to maintain a good pace, but still holds tension well; there are some completely believable unbelievable happenings to provide dramatic flourish but it keeps a steady, jogging, calm rhythm, and relies on character and setting to keep you turning pages. A gentle yet addictive read with brilliant descriptions of scenery and setting and some really wonderful characters.
This is the first in a trilogy about a young man who fought in the Boer War and comes home to England, finding that he has received a substantial inheritance. He decides to buy a thousand acre farm, and this is the story of the people who are his tenant farmers, and the story of what happens in his life. I really like R. F. Delderfield's books; they are descriptive, a little slow, but the characters are compelling. It's also very interesting to see how much has changed in male/female relations since this book was published.
When I first started reading the book, I realized how long it was, but it kept my interest until the end.
I got to know the characters very well as Delderfield spent time leading us through their lives along with the main character, Paul.
Each character had their own view how they perceived Paul, and in a way, they were all correct.
Both Grace and Claire loved Paul, but each of them saw him in a completely different light.
The Potters were my favorite characters...they cared nothing of their reputations, living their lives exactly how they wanted to with some bad results!
This is long and detailed in a way I enjoy (showing societal change through the stories of a single place and cast of characters), but needs to be read with a bit of time to breathe and work through the slow parts. I found it to be very similar to the Poldark books in flavor, but without quite as much drama. I'll definitely pick up the rest of the trilogy, but my desire to read it isn't burning a hole in my library hold list.
It was indeed a LONG Summer Day. While I liked the most of this book, it was way too long and meandering. I was disappointed that nothing really happened; we just learned about the daily life of the village. I waited for a climax that never arrived. That being said, I love the time period and I normally love epic historical sagas. The story just needed a little more action.
This was a wonderful read, in spite of some reservations. Has a little the feel of the Trollope chronicles books...lots of personal and political drama, and an in-depth look at life in England as the Suffragettes were ramping up their activities. This is the first book of the trilogy, and I will no doubt continue with it.
An oldie but a goodieDelderfield is a master of the English language and is a pleasure to read. You may be able to see the outline of the plot, but he will tell the story in a beguiling way with a plot twist here and there. Indulge and don't miss his other series.
Not a complicated book. But you like the characters and I would keep reading this. I'm curious to see how the 20th century treats these characters that the author has been at such pains to tell us are stuck in the 19th or even the 18th or 17th century.
