https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/513367.In_Search_of_Schr_dinger_s_Cat
um...- i read this book- i didn't read this book- i read this book and didn't read this book- i read this book in one universe and didn't in another- this book didn't exist until i read it gribbin's great because he won't dumb down but genuinely wants you to understand this stuff. and b/c he believes in time travel. yay!
this book is f******n awesome.i read it in highschool and then again in college - because while you're reading it it's like having a really good teacher who holds your attention and makes you understand unusual ideas but as soon as you finish and put it down you're like "wait, how does that work again?" so for me at least, i have to be reading it to maintain that state of enlightenment.
maybe after a certain number of reads it will stick - because i am not naturally good at this sort of subject.
لا ادرى ما هو الحال اذا كنت قد قرات هذا الكتاب منذ عشر سنوات مضت ؟!!ربما كنت سافهم الكثير مما بدا لى كطلاسم اثناء دراستى الجامعية ..
ربما كنا غيرت تخصصى الحالى ..
ربما وربما..
جون جريبين ياخذك من يدك ليعلمك الكثير عن فيزياء الكم مع القليل جداً من المعادلات الرياضية ..
اعترف بخجلى الشديد لاننى لم افهم الكثير لنسيانى موضوعات فيزيائية اساسية ، واصابتى بالحنق ايضاً لانه تقريبا توقفت دراستنا عند الفيزياء الكلاسيكية وتكلمت باستحياء شديد على مبادىء النظرية النسبية ومعادلة شرودنجر ..
انصح به بشدة لكل من كان تخصصه الحالى دراسة الفيزياء ، ولا عزاء لامثالى !!

Okay, so to best describe this book, I need to first describe Schrodingers cat.
Imagine a box with a cat inside.
If an atom inside decays, it triggers the hammer and the cat dies.
According to the Copenhagen model, this would mean that the cat is both alive and dead inside the box until the atom is observed.
It was a thought experiment, produced to ask "when does a Quantum model cease to be a mixture and become one thing or another?" If you were able to follow me on that, check this book out.
هو واحد من أهم الكتب العلمية التي قرأتها لغاية اليوميمتاز بحسن العرض، والتسلسل التاريخي للأفكار، وسعة إطلاع مؤلفه على المادة التي يتناولهاكما أن ترجمته ممتازة
Gribbin seems to have a sound understanding of quantum mechanics, and his writing is rather well crafted, but sometimes I think he'd rather have been a historian than a physicist.
However, by the end, the concepts are clear and complete.
Being somewhat new to these concepts, I'm not sure if I'm meshing too well with the opinions on parallel universes that Gribbin states at the end, and the illustrations are badly placed, only moderately insightful, and actually contradict the text in places.
However, I enjoyed this immensely and highly recommend it to anyone looking for a low to no math introduction to quantum mechanics.
4 stars for science nerds, 3 stars for everyone else.
An in depth discussion of the birth of quantum physics, where it is now and what it means for the future.
I enjoyed it for the survey of physics giants in the early 20th century from Einstein to Heisenburg.
The last 1/3 of the book were a series of explanations of experiments used to prove some of the theorems which were fascinating.
I think a great deal of the genius was expressed in merely coming up with ways to prove ideas.A pretty dense book if you aren't a nerd.
هذا الكتاب يسرد مراحل نشأة وتطور الفيزياء الكمية تاريخيا، ويناقش نظريات العلماء وتجاربهم وأبحاثهم وخلافاتهم في تلك الفترة حتى يصل بك إلى التفسيرات الفيزيائية المحتملة التي يتباها علماء هذا العصر.
ستتعرف على أبطال الميكانيكا الكمية واكتشافاتهم واستنتاجاتهم الغريبة خلال القرن الماضي.عندما بدأت قراءة الكتاب كنت مستمتعاً لكن عندما قطعت شوطاً بدأت الأحداث والأسماء والنظريات والتواريخ تكثر وتتداخل ببعضها حتى فقدت التركيز!كان من الأجدى للكاتب أن يبتعد عن التشويش والتفصيل قدر الإمكان ويحاول صياغة الموضوع في قالب أبسط حتى يكون أقرب إلى عامة القرّاء غير المتخصصين.
ترجمة الكتاب إلى العربية كانت متميزة لأنها تمت على يدي باحثين عربيين متخصصين في نفس المجال.
Doğru düzgün fizik temeli olamamış biri olarak anlamakta zorlandığım yerler oldu. :( Ama son kısım harikaydı. Tam beklediğim şeydi <3
Este libro me permitió asomarme un poco al no intuitivo mundo cuántico. Desde ya que entendí poco y nada. Pero se deja leer.
He believes that parallel worlds do exist but not the way in which we imagine (in most of the sci-fiction books) where we can hop between the alternate universes but all the alternate universes according to quantum theory branch out based on the choices that the observer encounters.
He also writes about the two different theories explaining the way things work in this universe - The "Copenhagen interpretation" where there are numerous possibilities of something happening but there is only one reality (in one world) and the rest are just virtual ghostly worlds which all collapse into one result when the observer actually observes the system.
The book does show its age at parts but his amazement at PCs and LASERs does not change the fact that they are awesome and stem from the study of quantum mechanics.
A larger flaw is his matter-of-fact presentation of certain controversial theories as "yeah, that's the way it is; don't bother investigating further." This book does have a lot of good information and does explain some aspects of quantum mechanics very well for someone with little experience, but he kind of unravels at the end.

This must be the 10th time I have re-read this book. I met the author way back when I was a kid and have always been fascinated with solving the quantum mysteries and physics. This book and others from Gribbin were exceedingly well written in language that didn't require a PhD. It was spellbinding and quite enjoyable to re-read.
And this book wasn't doing that throughout the most part of the pages, at some points it was irritating when Gribbin was actually doing what he considered as a bad habit of science "popularizers"; I'm guessing more like a marketing-scheme?Anyways, all in all the book was amazing and presented most of the topics in a "breaking-down" kind of methods, so I for the most part didn't need extra readings into other sources.History of science was presented neatly and not in a internet-ty kind of way actually, I mean it was smooth for the most part with witty statements like "everybody knew" and so.
Amidst a plethora of books purportedly dealing with "explaining Quantum Theory to the layman" this book stands apart, as well as taller, by virtue of two qualities: -1.
It's really really well written, even by the high standards of popular science set by the luminaries, and remains deliciously readable even after more than three decades since its publication.2.

I really enjoy history, and if you are looking for a book that gives much about the history of the development of modern Quantum Mechanics this is a wonderful read. It also simplifies many principles to make it more accessible to non mathematical minds such as myself. Besides that I just kind of loved it and you might too.
I wish I'd written  A Quantum Theory of Mitt Romney . In particular, Figure 2... the best Feynman diagram joke I've ever seen!
The writer was quite positive towards his attempt in explaining quantum theory. His approach was quite neat & clean , comprehensive . However , it made me sad in the end ~
A highly readable and exciting account of a topic that I love.
أخذ مني هذا الكتاب الكثير من الجهد الذهني.
I first read this book when I was a freshman in college (a business major at the time).
I get it already!!) and I felt he should have connected the text to them better.
It seemed like the text and the figures were two separate entities, so one didn't particularly help the understanding of the other.
I just finished the book for the second time, and I'm realizing now that it's much better as a group read.
The first time I read it, our class used a discussion format to go over the material, and it made it much easier to absorb.

Awesome Book, recommended for a better background on Quantum Mechanics...it's well written and neatly presented, with a great historical,theoretical and technical insights about the beauty of the Quantum world, with lots of fundamental aspects and termonolgy of the theory and all you want to know about the different interpretations and thought experiments which i think are my favorite part of the book, even though the chemistry related parts were boring (i don't like it), but overall, its great!!Collapse the wavefunction, and read it :D
This was one of the best books I have read on Quantum Physics. It turns out to be a slow read, because it gives you examples, and then to fully understand the examples you find yourself working out the aspects of it. It is only about 250 pages, but it took me the better part of six months to get through. Awesome book!
I have an abusive relationship with physics, I love it but it doesn’t love me and that makes me sad. This was just too advanced for me and I never really got to grips with it. I understood parts of it but not enough to enjoy it. My one sided relationship with physics continues...
The cat a) exists in a superimposed state of dead and aliveb) is dead in one universe, and alive in anotherc) what cat? The cat doesn't even exist unless observed.Read this book for mysteries of quantum physics.
AcknowledgementsIntroductionPrologue: Nothing Is Real--In Search of Schrödinger's CatBibliographyIndex
