https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24950845-tricky-twenty-two
For the love of God let Stephanie choose between Ranger and Morelli or neither.
PLEASE.After ReadingOk. Better than the last two books in my opinion.Still a little predictable, but Stephanie actually (briefly) considered other career options and made a step in A DIRECTION romantically.
Yes, some parts were still predictable as all can be, and naturally (view spoiler)[she gets kidnapped once, makes out with both Ranger and Joe, Grandma and Lula shoot at people a lot, and at least three cars get destroyed (hide spoiler)] but it could have been worse!And (view spoiler)[a proposal!
Poor Stephanie.
Her life has gotten so complicated that she's considering changing professions.
His post coital suggestion that they break up and that Steph should see other people (just not Ranger) has totally thrown her for a loop.
But Stephanie isn't short on suitors - Grandma Mazur has been catfishing, and she's used Steph's picture and personal info as bait!
Adding to the migraine of her life is a series of murders linked to the frat from hell, and a mad scientist with weaponized fleas.
Car blown up? CheckBig Blue, the Buick Roadmaster makes an appearance? CheckHot Morelli? CheckWacky Grandma Mazur attends a viewing? CheckFlashy Lula wants to eat? CheckStephanie needs to be rescued by Ranger or Morelli? CheckSmokin' hot Ranger? Check Check!!Entertaining? CheckFast read? CheckRepetitive? Check Check!!

MRW people ask me how many books are in this series (including the Between the Numbers ones):
I think when they are old, it's going to look something like this:Ranger and Morelli think that's Stephanie in the middle.
(Steph died years ago from clogged arteries.)Most fans of this series are thinking that there is no way to resolve this triangle unless the author decides to kill one of them off.
They went to the bar later.So, since this triangle is unsolvable, the author has to figure out ways to allow Stephanie to carry on a relationship with both guys.
She usually has Morelli break up with Stephanie for some stupid reason (one time it was because she didn't buy bread at the store which he called 'the woman's job').
I just wanted it to be a fast paced mystery with a lot of sarcastic humor and with a few off beat characters thrown in.
Well, no hot sex with Ranger, but the mystery, humor and off beat characters were all there.
A lot of people have come to expect an awful lot from these books.
Another issue that bugs a lot of people is what I call "Stephie Time".
Add to that Ranger needs her to help with a protection detail, Steph going through several vehicles and a nutty professor bent on mayhem and you have a typical Stephanie Plum book.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/3.5 StarsObviously anyone who has already subjected themselves to TWENTY-ONE prior books in this series has a serious mental disorder . . . .  In my defense, I thought I was over my addiction. I mean, Evanovich is up to like 24 and I had stopped at 21 when NetGalley quit offering ARCs so that was good, right? But then the dang stinking library challenge had this series offered up as one of the options for a contemporary mystery and I c
If you want to have any chance of enjoying all eleven trillion Stephanie Plums stories, you have to constantly remind yourself of a couple things:1.
Even though these books have been going on for 20+ years, in Plum land it’s only been a couple;2.
Stephanie is DTF with either Morelli or Ranger depending on the book;3.
Stephanie’s diet is worse than Rex’s and Trump’s combined, but apparently she has the metabolism of a hummingbird;7.
Okay, so obviously these books are made for days when you’re feeling a little like this .
Book #3 in the Winter Reading Challenge
TRICKY TWENTY-TWO is another fun, easy and fast read that had me laughing out loud quite a few times!
I have read every other book in this series and I still find myself looking forward to reading the next to see what happens to my favourite bounty hunter and her men!
These books can be a little bit repetitive and predictable but that doesn't really matter to me.
I am invested in these characters and this series so I will see it to the end whenever JANET EVANOVICH chooses to do so.I liked the ending......I am looking forward to reading the next book, Turbo Twenty-Three.http://www.twogirlslostinacouleereadi...
As always seriously funny, very light and entertaining , the funniest characters ever .I do some very dark reads and in order to decompress and lighten the fuck up : i need places like the Burg and characters like grandma Mazure and ex ho Lola and of course the incorrigible Stephanie Plum and all the hilarious situations they get themselves into....Thank you dear Janet.
To answer the question that I'm sure you're asking yourself and I ask myself every year, "Why do you keep reading this series of books if you think that they are boring predictable cut and paste repeats of her previous books in the series?" The answer is simple, "What if I miss something and what if this book is written like Stephanie Plum novels use to be and it is full of excitement, drama, suspense, love, intrigue, romance, and what if it's the final one in which we learn that Grandma Mazur is driving home from Morreli and Stephanie's wedding with that weasel, Uncle Vinny and Gma Bella, when they are run off the road by, a rat fink drug Lord.
That one is for you Lula....
And you will understand this as well when you read the book, which if you are a Stephanie Plum fan it is a absolute must!
This book had all the typical SP mischief, with none of the silliness, there were no giraffes!!!
Yes, cars blue up, granny shot off her gun, and Lula strut around in her crazy clothes....
But the ending was a bit of a shocker(view spoiler)[ mom got all kick ass at the end, it was absolutely fantastic!
Stephanie has been in an on again off again relationship with a cop named Joe Morelli.
There is a Joe-Stephanie-Ranger triangle.
No matter who Stephanie and Lula are trying to track down there is always drama and it is hilarious.
And then of course there's Grandma Mazur who loves to tag along with Stephanie and Lula when she can.
I think that's where Stephanie will find her HEA.I know this series seems like it never ends and the stories are very similar from one book to the next, but I rather like the familiarity of it all.
Here after Stephanie escaped the evil clutches of Pooka, her mother outran them all in catching and beating him up in a footrace: She took Stanley Pooka down like a junkyard dog on a piece of rancid meat.Roger grinned at my mom: “Never underestimate maternal rage.”Lula here shows her capacity for diversionary lying: “What happened to him?” the cop asked.“He tripped while he was running,” Lula said.
They’re good for letting your boys breathe while you’re watching television, but you don’t want to run in them, what with your nuts knocking around in there.”Grandmother and Lula both fire their guns off when threats appear but never hit anyone.
I haven't always enjoyed many of the later books in this series but I found myself really liking this one. It was a good visit with old friends. There was more action, with even mom getting into the thick of things. Easy, quick read. I think what bugs me most is the way she can't be allowed to finally, finally keep one good car. The car wrecks are really getting old. I do believe, however, that I will be giving the next book a shot.
Stephanie, a semi-competent bounty hunter, is trying to track down Ken Globovic (Gobbles), a member of the Zeta fraternity at Kiltman College.
Gobbles skipped bail after being arrested for assaulting a college administrator, Dean Mintner.At the same time Stephanie is helping Ranger - who owns Rangeman security company - keep an eye on Doug Linken and his wife Monica.
It turns out Linken and Getz were former members of Zeta fraternity, which has an 'Animal House' vibe about it - lots of drunk carousing and no studying.
Dean Mintner is fed up with Zeta fraternity and determined to close it down.
Gramma Mazur is as wild as ever and this time is catfishing men using Stephanie's picture for her online profile.
9. Ranger has tracking on Stephanie and rescues her.
Ranger gives Stephanie a car it gets destroyed.
Stephanie mentions Ranger exciting her “Doodah.” Again.
This time, it’s Lula.
Stephanie STILL hasn’t make a firm choice between Team Ranger and Team Morelli, although the ending might lead you to believe otherwise…22.
I’m off to read that and get some hot Ranger-action, and some adult/ sexy-times with vocabulary that doesn’t include “doodah.”Final thoughts: I keep reading (and will probably read the next damn book because I hope and pray that Stephanie will grow the hell up and make a choice!) but no longer purchase these.
I have no doubt that Stephanie will have no growth, she'll still be deciding between Ranger and Morelli, Lulu will continue to bitch about her weight, and Grandma will blow something up.Janet is literally rehashing old material and just slapping a different name or shiny location to it and calling it "new".
That's also assuming Janet is still writing these books and that the rumors of her niece (or daughter or whatever) not taking them over is false.
Or else, sit down and really think about what you want to happen with your characters.Kill of Joe. Kill of Ranger.
We're desperate for new material.
Please be the last book.
Why DO I do this to myself?The entire book, it really SEEMED like this might be the end of things.
Everyone was talking about change and exhibiting the growth they have been sorely needing for 80% of the series.
Then I realized there was an excerpt from another book in the back and I had like five pages left in the story and there wasn't going to be a Stephanie Plum version of "Nineteen Years Later." And while the end wasn't completely open-ended like they usually are, it certainly wasn't enough closure to end a TWENTY TWO BOOK SERIES.
Okay, so I clicked the "Want to Read" button. Keeping my hopes up.
Thought for awhile there we were finally done with Morelli.
Pole, I would have used it to beat him!Reread June 2018– Still loving these books, although I will admit that this one was not among my favorites.
I was so irritated at Morelli for dumping Steph and then hanging around to drag it out.
But, I absolutely loved when Steph’s mom got in on the action.
As a mom I agree with what Ranger said, “Never underestimate maternal rage.” Someone hurts your kid and its time to go all Hulk on them.
Okay I have until November to read 16-21Update:I am sad that I am caught up with the series but what a great way to end 2015. One of my favorites!
If my boyfriend told me that we should see other people, right after having sex mind you, I would've gone berserk on him.
Seriously, I would strangle him with a pillow right then and there, while he was still in postcoital mellowness.
The other option would be shooting him with a gun in the bedside table and use pillow as a silencer.
I gave it a serious thought just in case, It's good to keep your options open.
She told Morelli to get lost, grown a huge pimple, sat in a car by his house and felt sorry for herself.That's not the way to do it, girlieBig Bad was the Lord of the Flies.
Another great read by Janet Evanovich. Most of us think this series needs to be done and over with. I love it because it is such an easy, no brainer read. And of course because I want to know who Stephanie will end up being with in the end. Well, all through the book you will go back and forth as usual between Morelli and Ranger. There is a shock in the book that will keep you guessing until the very end. And wow, what an ending.
I'm going to be generous and give this 3 stars. This used to be one of my favorite series to read. The early books are fun, entertaining, and provided a lot of laughs. The last few haven't been the same but I still read them to check up on the characters. Still holding out hope that Stephanie and Co. will have some "newness" to their story eventually.
Morelli also is fighting demons of his own in more ways than one, threatening his relationship with Stephanie and opening up the possibility yet again for dilly dallying with her hunka-hunka security guy Ranger (for me, most of that scenario has been a yawn over the span of several books).Also as usual, the scrapes Stephanie and Lula get into border on the ridiculous (but somehow seems to me to be part of the appeal), as does the plot (ditto).
4.5 stars..I think this was the best Stephanie Plum story in a while! I really, really enjoyed this one!
TRICKY TWENTY-TWO---------------------Will Twenty-Two be the one?
Or, will the book version of Groundhog Day continue?One day Stephanie will choose and that keeps most of us reading.
I guess that makes us better at long-term relationships than Stephanie.
Go us.So, once again, let us ask: "Stephanie..."---------------------AFTER READING:As Allie said best in her review, the novel "...wasn't amazing, but it could have been so much worse." Unlike novels past, so to speak, this one made me chuckle a few times.
There are hints--the mildest of hints, mind you--of a character arc, so that is progress, and overall, this novel feels like coming back to an old friend--the one you remember being mad at but are willing to forgive.
:-)The Seasonal Reading Challenge Spring 2018 Task 30.6, Brooke TX's Task: Conference, Convention, Conventicle, Option B: SFWA, Book 2: a title with at least two words where ALL words in the title start with the same letter.
lolthank goodness I didn't have to wait this long in between books as I started reading them just before 21 was released !!
best long running book series ever !!review after reading:wow wow wow wow wow!
I was a little mad at him at the beginning of the book but by the end I was extremely happy with him!!Ranger was not in the book as much as I'd like..
one thing this author does is recap a bit in the books so if you happen to pick up say #22 not knowing about the series you would not be completely lost..
