https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/866319.Wolf_to_the_Slaughter
Read by...............
Robin BaileyTotal Runtime.........
5 Hours 56 MinsDescription: Anita Margolis, young, beautiful, carefree, has vanished into thin air.
She left her home to attend a party one wet evening, but has not been seen since.
She is reported missing soon after by her brother, whom she shared a flat with, the acclaimed but eccentric artist Rupert Margolis.
Inspector Burden quickly forms an impression of a wanton young girl simply gone off somewhere with a boyfriend having neglected to let anyone know.
After all, she was that sort of woman, in Burden's opinion.
I love Ruth Rendell: the stories, characters, settings, but the way she writes often totally confuses me.
He will talk; she will talk; it goes back and forth rather nicely, then...She talks, but in the same paragraph you read, 'Wexford paced,' or 'Wexford set down his mug.' It seems to me that Wexford is talking?
This happens throughout the book and I have to re-read, go back, and once or twice I actually went through the dialogue thinking, okay this is Her, Him, Her, Him - and him again?
I just read it as a period piece.But the way the dialogue is presented...blimey.
Today Ruth Rendell is well known as a writer of thrillers with a fair amount of psychological tension in them.
Wolf to the Slaughter is one of her earlier Inspector Wexford novels, and, while she's a competent writer and Wolf is worth reading, it lacks the edge that characterizes most of her later works.
Wolf is police procedural focusing on a suspected murder, but with no body, Wexford and Burden are forced to start with no hard evidence, relying on their intuitions.
A wealthy young woman fails to return home one night, and although her brother isn't worried, the police are.
Sordid affairs keep being revealed--and even initiated--all over the place, and the novel becomes a lament of dissatisfaction as much as a mystery, a set of people looking at their lives and asking if that's all there really is.Wexford and Burden are for the most part happy, and therefore happily exempt, able to walk through the muck without getting bogged down in it, which makes this a clear and coolly delivered take on a lot of hot emotions.
I tried ten times to get into this, but it just wouldn't work.
Rendell wanted to give the investigating team some personality by adding weird personal ambitions, arrogance and romantic lust.
But just as I couldn't get interested in the murdered people and the suspects, the plot line of the policemen was even more boring.To be honest, I couldn't finish the book, so this review isn't representative.
It just didn't register.
This sometimes happens to me when I am drunk or preoccupied with personal problems.
This was a great read throughout, but the ending -- which I will not give away here -- notched this rating from a 4.5 to a 5 star.
I really think, in the earlier Wexford books, Ruth Rendell mayhave been gearing up Inspector Burden to be the pivotal figurein the Kingsmarkham series.
But in this book it is Burden who startsto put two and two together and drags Wexford out on a cold nightto the Olive and Dove to try to sell him his theory.
It is also Burden who has the sympathetic nature - his treatment of the pathetic Ruby and his emotion at the shy, gentle woman tryingto sell some rings to an unmoved jeweller is at odds with Wexford'scynicism.
Lacking a body, readers don't even know if it's worth our time to follow the clues because--for all we know--the missing young woman may simply be off on a lark.
To his peril.The problem here is that Inspector Wexford takes a backseat to the other cops in the story for so much of the time that no one is truly in the driver's seat.
I usually enjoy the Inspector and would prefer him to orchestrate the action a bit more visibly.This being Ruth Rendell, the writing is still at a very high level, so fans of this series will probably still enjoy this one.
à chacun son goûtI chanced on this book on my local library's "new books" shelves not long after its publication.
"Wolf to the Slaughter" remains my favorite Rendell book to this day, and I own and have re-read every one of them, several more than once.
Fans of the-end-justifies-the-means school of law enforcement have Michael Connelly's Harry Bosch novels; for more gruesome crimes and snappier dialog, there are John Sanford's Lucas Davenport books.
But to my taste, there's no author who is so consistently good - and good at exposing the truths of the human heart - as Ruth Rendell.
Difficult to follow this one.
Maybe it was just the Kindle version, but it was hard to tell when one section ended and another started.
I found myself rereading paragraphs to try to follow the narrative.
The beginning of the novel set up a nice mystery, but then it got bogged down with too many unlikeable characters.
It was hard to care whether or not Ann or Anita was dead or alive.
I don't think I will read any more of the Inspector Wexford novels.
I prefer Ms. Rendell's psychological mysteries.
I'm doing a reread of all of the Inspector Wexford novels. It's been a long time since I read these early ones but they are just as good now as they were then. In my estimation, no one rivals Ruth Rendell in the mystery genre. This book is a twisty-turny bit of fun that will keep you guessing until the very end.
So many British mystery writers claim Ruth Rendell as an influence, so I'm working my way through this series. Not warming up to it quite yet, the characters can be a bit prickly, but on I go. Written in the '60s, it's conceivable that our cast had an education in the classics, but tossing around quotations from German and English Romantic poets doesn't sound like your typical police banter. Included is another example of authorly matchmaking going horribly awry - much like "Dialogues of the Dead". Definitely keep trying with these...
A likeable Ruth Rendell Murder Mystery.I enjoyed the easy flow of wordsthat were sprinkled with humor.Narrator Robin Bailey was not to my taste.Many of his women sounded like old witches.Not clean, very mild PG content with adult and foul language.
Another excellent novel by Ruth Rendell.
I consider this book to be literary fiction of the highest quality.
Yes, there is a murder, but the story really is about character development.
Plenty of twists and turns in the plot with a surprise ending.One reason that Rendell stands out in this genre is that her characters come across as real people, not the stick figures who populate so many cozies.
Very few extraneous words in her books.
Rendell obviously was a well-read woman who observed life carefully and is able to pass on her wisdom without sounding pretentious.I am so glad she wrote so many books.
The sister of artist Rupert Margolis has disappeared, probably with some man or other, it is thought at first.
Anita Margolis appears to have been murdered by a Geoff Smith.
But the policeman on the case has fallen hard for a young girl near the police station, and his powers of observation have deserted him.The key to the mystery is identity -- who was doing what?
It is not a simple puzzle, and again in this Rendell mystery, the climax is powerful.
Rendell doesn't need gore to create a riveting mystery, her characters do it for her.
I could not get into this book at all. Having read many of Ruth Rendell's books it is a disappointment to say that, but the first chapter was so off-putting I just couldn't finish it
The three star rating is in comparison to her later books. But early Ruth Rendell is still far superior to most other authors, especially other mystery writers.
One of his team has a personal story line that is tied into the mystery case but that is the closest the reader really gets to knowing anything personal about the detectives here.This is one of the earliest Ruth Rendell books and perhaps her style changes over time, but for this book there is not much character development.
Wexford comes across to me as a bit of a cold fish, but I am assuming that changes as the reader gets to know him through the development of the series.
I will probably come back to this series in the future but I’m not in a particular hurry to do so.
This the third outing for Ruth Rendell's dour detective, Chief Inspector Wexford, and his dull, prudish assistant, Inspector Burden, looked like a quick read being only 184 pages long.
It starts with a missing young woman, Anita (known as Ann) Margolis and a pool of blood on the carpet of a rented room with a lighter with an inscription "To Ann You Light Up My Life".
Wexford and Burden set about finding not only the culprit but also the body.
On of the detectives, Drayton, falls for the girl in the shop where the room with the blood was advertised and he sets about making a fall of himself.Good twists and turns keeping the reader guessing.Recommended read.
This Inspector Wexford story is dark, but interesting. A wealthy young woman has disappeared. Her car is found, but no one seems to have any idea whether she is alive or dead. Her brother is a popular "modern" artist whose work is very non-traditional and whose personality is quirky. The missing person investigation becomes a murder investigation that goes in circles with lots of dysfunctional characters, and I appreciate the plot twists and intertwined story lines of those characters.
In this, the second book in the series, Rendell turns her attention to Inspector Burden who runs a case involving a missing woman who is presumed dead. To solve this the team must figure out who liked her. Lust and love appear in equal amounts in this 1967 novel which features a plot twist at the end.
Gripping, fast paced mysteryVery well-told mystery. It isn’t overly complicated, but at the same time isn’t obvious. It kept me engaged from beginning to end and I read it in a single go.
Very clever and well written. I would give it 3.5 stars.
Solidly good installment in the Wexford series. Not my favorite, but not my least favorite. Had some interesting characters, as usual. I didn’t see the killer coming. Enjoyable.
Excellent twist--I didn't see it coming. She is SO good.
It's her writing that keeps me picking up another of her mysteries. Her mysteries are good. However, her storytelling skill is on a whole different level.
I love this series.
Wow, second best detective of Ruth Rendell so far (★≧▽^))★☆
Book 3 of the inspector Wexford series. Missing woman investigated as a murder ends with the suspected perpetrator as the victim.
One of the more clever Wexford titles. I listened to the audio book a few years ago, but couldn't remember much. The reveal is very clever.
