https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/105551.Fox_in_Socks
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Either 1 Star or 5 Stars depending on how many times you've been forced to read it/how many glasses of wine you've had to drink Any sportsball fans in the house? If so you’ll know that meme is 100% accurate. However, since today is Dr. Seuss’ birthday I’m here to talk about a different annoying sound – that which comes from discovering what the fox says . . .  Wrong again, but it’s almost as aggravating. In case you are someone who is
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Either 1 Star or 5 Stars depending on how many times you've been forced to read it/how many glasses of wine you've had to drink
However, since today is Dr. Seuss’ birthday I’m here to talk about a different annoying sound – that which comes from discovering what the fox says .
Wrong again, but it’s almost as aggravating.
Take note that any children’s book that comes with a disclaimer .
might not end up being your idea of a great time.
Will make you have to up your dosage of Lexapro so it’s better to stick with this one.
This is my favorite Dr. Suess book of all time.
That’s because my mom couldn’t read it.
I mean...she could read most of it.
But when she got to the Bim bends Ben’s broom, she’d start tripping up.
Then she’d start to laugh, and she laughed so hard a couple of times tears came to her eyes.
Consequently, I used to pick up this book almost every night.
So can YOU read this out loud?Bim comes.Ben comes.Bim brings Ben broom.Ben brings Bim broom.Ben bends Bim's broom.Bim bends Ben’s broom.Bim’s bends.Ben’s bends.Ben’s bent broom breaks.Bim’s bent broom breaks.Ben’s band.Bim’s band.Big bands.Pig bands.Bim and Ben lead bands with brooms.Ben’s band bangs and Bim’s band booms.
I don't like this trick, sir." But Fox refuses to relent.
An unending series of nightmare images parade by, reminiscent of brainwashing scenes in dystopias like 1984 and Clockwork Orange.a giant crow sews Knox into a boxon the next page Fox tries to get him to chew the blue gooFox in Socks has been called Seuss's greatest tragedy.
Fox succeeds in driving Knox mad - but in a final twist, the now-lunatic Knox turns against his tormenter and viciously murders him."Thank you," gibbers the raving Knox, "For a lot of fun, sir!" as the battling tweetle beetles advance on the trapped fox.
This is the tongue twister to end all tongue twister and of course it is a fox which makes it perfect. I heard an audio recording of this where the reader was extremely fast and I aspire to be able to say it that fast and it is difficult.This is one of my all time favorite books and I love to get it out and read it fast to the kids, well, as fast as I can and they laugh and wonder how I do that. It's my one trick. I give this all the stars.
Dr. Seuss will drive you crazy with his silly questions. But then they might be clever too in a wicked sort of way through the mouth of his cool-as-cucumber characters.image: Once again a book full of wild, wild, wild tongue twisters. Read and go mad. Make your children go mad too for a day. Nothing wrong with it.image: Fox in SocksTruly Rocks.Socks on Rocks,Box in Socks,Rocks in Box,Socks on Fox.This is one book that is richer Than Goldfinger's Fort Knox.If you say right each tongue twisterYou will be one smart 'Fox in Socks'.
What Seuss has created using such imagination, with a particularly dynamic (both flamboyant but simple) and unique style of illustration, coupled with his verse rhythms and the use of repetitive but building and twisting phrases – all in an extremely and deliberately accessible way, is a series of works which are a fantastic visual and verbal feast, captivating both children and adults alike.For me the most memorable examples of Seuss’s work are: ‘The Cat in the Hat’ (along with its sequel ‘The Cat in the Hat Comes Back’) – For the wonderful creation of mischief that is the ‘Cat in the Hat’ ‘Fox in Socks’ – For the tremendously bizarre tongue-twisters‘Green Eggs and Ham’ – For the ever building and dynamic nature of the verse.
This is one of our favorite Dr. Seuss books.
One of the best tongue twister books I've ever read.
We've read it several times and for some reason the six sick part always messes me up.
The more I read out loud to my kids, the more I realize I read ahead.
I see a word and digest it, then as I'm saying it out loud, I'm already reading the next couple of words.
With this book, that's difficult to do, because I often have to go back a word or two because I've forgotten what it was, they're all so similar.
Because Mockingjay was so intellectually vapid and emotionally bland I have to work my way back into books. Thus: Fox in Socks! He's a clever fox you know.
one of my kids favorites, they love having me try to read it and then read it fast. TONGUE TWISTERS!
This book will either help emerging readers be better able to pronounce potentially confusing words, or drive them insane. I experienced a little of both! I remember having fun while Fox in Socks was read to me, though.
fun tongue twisting read!
This is an evil kid's book, for sure. Pick it up and you'll be condemned to a near eternity of grueling tongue twisters. And your kid will love it... Not because it's one of Seuss's masterpieces, but because he or she will enjoy watching you sweat like a hog as you labor from page to page and go purple in the face while you silently (with any luck) curse yourself for buying the thing.[shelf: evil-kids-books]
The Seuss I read tonight...I'm going to start reading this every night. And I'm going to time myself. My new goal in life is to always beat my previous best time. Ambitious, I know. I read it to my daughters 3 times tonight, each time faster than the last. What a rush.I'll tell you what's messing me up... It's those brooms that Ben and Bim are carring around. They're REALLY bugging me.
I don't know what to rate this book!!!I read this aloud to a 3-year-old I was babysitting, and I died. At the beginning of the book, it says "danger." I should have been warned... "Fox in Socks" is a book full of tongue twisters, and long too. My mouth died. 62 times for 62 pages.
A true classic, this children’s book engages the imaginative minds of young readers with its rhyming, tongue-twisting story. Still the best.
In Fox in Socks, Dr. Seuss poses a treacherous, but delightful linguistic challenge for adults and children alike.
It is also the only work by the famous children's author prefaced with a warning: "This book is DANGEROUS!" Through a series of vignettes on diverse subjects, Dr. Seuss melds his trademark silliness with near-lethal tongue twisters, including a variant on the infamous "The sixth sick sheik's sixth sheep's sick."Fox in Socks offers lots of opportunities for grownups.
Have a race with your friends to see who can recite the entire thing most quickly without error.
This book could be my childhood. I remember many evenings that my brother & I would choose "Fox in Socks" for our nightly bedtime read.
Reading this book out loud is torture. Reading it 18 times in a row to a 3 year old is unspeakable. I think he wrote this book as a cruel prank toward parents.
Aah...a classic. It's impossible to read the tweetle beetle bottle battle out loud without dissolving into giggles.
paddle battle!
My favorite book, ever. When I was youngest, I would ask my brother to read it out loud to me. When I was older, I would read it to myself, trying to memorize the rhythmic poetry of the crazy fox's shenanigans. Maybe this is why there's a talking fox in my second novel? Hmm.... pieces of the puzzle fit together.
I have accomplished many amazing things in my life, and I will be honest, reading this book was one of the hardest of them! If you are up for the challenging rhymes of the AMAZING Dr.Seuss, than this book is for you!
I have forgotten how hard it is to read anything by Dr. Seuss out loud XD
This was a book I was sure I'd get tired and annoyed with after repeated readings, but somehow I haven't.
It has enough different "scenes" and characters to keep the book moving and interesting (unlike Green Eggs and Ham), and it's enough of a challenge that I enjoy seeing how well I can read the tongue twisters without feeling like I'm being tortured.
Mr. Knox was a brilliant addition though.
He serves as my uptight inner critic who doesn't entirely want to be there, but can't seem to tear himself away, and manages to get the last word(s) in the end.
This book was hard but fun to read because of all the rhyming words.
I think all readers would enjoy this book.
My favorite part is..."We'll find something new to do now.
Here is lots of blue goo now.
Gooey.
Gooey.
Blue goo.
Blue goo.
New goo.
New goo.
Gluey.
Gluey.
Gooey goo for chewy chewing!
That's what that Goo-Goose is doing.
Do you choose to chew goo, too, sir?
If, sir, you, sir, choose to chew sir, with the Goo-Goose, chew, sir.
Do, sir." That is REALLY HARD to say!
(A special thanks to my mom for typing this review for me.)
Clearly written on a day in which Dr. Seuss was annoyed by the wild, shrieking, running children who so often inhabit public places, Seuss has here his sweet, cranky revenge. It's awful to read and it never gets easier, and it never gets less funny to the kid to hear their parent stumble over the words."Six sick bricks tick. Six sick chicks tock."There was no need for that Seuss, none. I control my offspring in public places. Why punish us all?
This is a real tongue twisting, head busting, frantic rhyming story that only Dr Seuss could possible get away with. I love the full colour artwork, slightly more vibrant than his other work that I remember reading, so far...
Going back and reading this as a mum is so different from how I remember this book as a child.Not a good choice for a very tired mummy!! It slowed me down when I wanted to speed up!! Lots of fun to read. My little treasure loves it.
One of the most fun Seuss books to read aloud, in my humble opinion.
Mommy was feeling pretty smug about her tongue twister skills for the first few pages, but things went south quickly.
