https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20300556-flametti-or-the-dandyism-of-the-poor
Flametti má kabaret. Ten já třeba nemám a už jen z toho důvodu jsem byl průměrně zvědav, jaký to je mít kabaret. Navíc kniha vyšla u Rubata a kabaret byl v Curychu počátkem minulého století. A já mám rád Rubato a Curych! Tím pádem předem daných 5/10. Jak říká Lenka Kořínková - easy like sunday morning.Zbytek knihy je průměr. A já sem rád, že nemám kabaret, protože neumím ani zpívat ani nemám nervy na to, nahánět někde štetky, aby si šly vyčistit zuby, protože musí jít tancovat. 6/10.
Max Flametti, impoverished and hapless, leads a vaudeville troupe from fame to scandal.
Without giving too much away, our friend Max and his troupe get into an altercation, which leads to a police investigation and slanderous remarks.
What is most interesting is the jargon Ball uses within the novel.
Ball portrays his lively soubrettes and contortionists with a rich language “of the poor.” Also, since this was written around the time of the burgeoning Cabaret Voltaire, Ball’s novel captures the zeitgeist of the early live performances in Zurich, which probably would have been beyond entertaining: music, dance, beer, and sausages!
Completed around the same time as he co-created the Cabaret Voltaire, this is Ball's semi-autobiographical novel about being a poor traveling vaudeville performer in pre-Dada Switzerland.
Tiempos difíciles que contará, debidamente escondidos ambos tras otros nombres, en Flametti o el dandismo de los pobres, editada por Berenice, en lo que no es la historia de una de las compañías que frecuentó, la de Flamingo (es decir Flametti), antes de fundar, desastrosamente, la suya propia y acabar en aquel 1916 que representaría el comienzo de otra cosa.La obra tiene algo muy de su época, una narrativa que se puede encontrar en otros autores de aquellos años y también en los conflictivos años entre guerra y guerra.
http://www.full-stop.net/2014/04/08/r...Flametti, or the Dandyism of the Poor – Hugo Ballby Hannah Alpert-Abrams[Wakefield Press: 2014]“The word,” Hugo Ball declared at the first Dada soirée in Zurich, 1916, “the word outside your domain, your stuffiness, this laughable impotence, your stupendous smugness, outside all the parrotry of your self-evident limitedness.
Theoretically, it is defamiliarization, a radical disruption of the world and the word as we know it.In contrast, Ball’s novel Flametti, or the Dandyism of the Poor, completed in 1916 at the height of the Dada gatherings at the Cabaret Voltaire, is words, real words, used to produce real, straightforward meanings.
Flametti's absurdly amusing story captures the combination of genius and delusions of grandeur perfectly within one character.
Flametti is a brilliant mess of an actor, an impoverished yet determined troupe leader, and in an impulsive move for his performance becomes a king in his own mind.
The spectacle overflows off the stage and Flametti's feathers are plucked off by his own scattering flock.
Hugo Ball writes one man's artistic ascent and moral descent, whose absurd commitment to greatness on the stage squanders any accomplishment earnings or his talent afforded him, at least until he and the audience are again consumed by opportunistic inspiration.
a fascinating artefact, as it was written by Hugo Ball, a legend of Cabaret Voltaire and Dada, originally published in 1916.
surprisingly not translated into English until this edition, Wakefield have produced a sumptuous edition with elegant art brut illustrations from Tal R.
it is an interesting window onto the life of down at heel vaudevillians - the hectic, rootless text presumably intended to reflect the nature of that life.
not really a story as such, but a rattling series of breathless half-resolved anecdotes with a breakneck procession of sketchy characters - so much so that I felt it hard to really engage with tho a great artefact
Die Geschichte einer Kabarett-Truppe um den schillernden Direktor Max Flametti. Ganz amüsante Szenen aus dem Kleinkunstmilieu.
