https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/664236.Come_Back_Dr_Caligari
In one story a group of friends picket the human condition outside a church, their placards feature slogans : MAN DIES!COGITO ERGO NOTHING!THE BODY IS DISGUST!NO MORE ART CULTURE LOVE!Their leader explains : We are opposed to the ruthless way in which the human condition has been imposed on organisms which have done nothing to deserve it and are unable to escape it.
St Stephen in the lead there with his stoning, then comes King Richard the Third at Bosworth Field, a grand death that, then the very lovely Jean d'Arc, then Marat in his bath - best of friends with Charlotte in the showers afterwards - then A.

This is Barthelme's first collection of short fiction and in the opening story the author pens this: "The aim of literature is the creation of a strange object covered with fur which breaks your heart." And that's just the half of it, because when Don is finished with this strange object it will be shorn, painted blue, dressed in gold lamé and made to sing the theme song to Love Boat everytime someone brings commemorative stamps into the shed.
The good stuff is great, the other stuff is impenetrable.
Complicating this is the fact that the great stuff and the impenetrable stuff often coexist within the same story, or even the same paragraph.
I will leave you with some choice dialogue from "Up, Aloft in the Air":————————————————————————"Even in Texas," Buck whispered, "where things are very exciting, there is nothing like the old face of Constantine Cavity.
Are you true?""Oh I wish things were other.""You do?""There are such a lot of fine people in the world I wish I was one of them!""You are, you are!""Not essentially.
If you are wondering about absurdism and postmodernism and are tired of looking dumb at dinner parties, I recommend reading this book. You are going to learn all about the cat-piano and about Batman's friend Fredric who comes over on most Tuesday nights. This knowledge will change you, even if the change is just being itchy.
Four stars might be a bit of an exaggeration given the unevenness of the gathered stories tenuously bound to the printed pages of this unorthodox book, but Barthelme's bravado has made a believer out of me. Weary readers take solace in this fact: this collection will grow on you. Literature is most potent when it alters the temporal reality of the reader. Consider this collection of short stories to be an invitation - a provocation, really - toward a universe quite unlike the one around you, and closer to the one within you.
The older I get the more I realize that by reading Barthelme at 15 years old without actually understanding him, but for whatever reason continuing to read him steadily for the next decade, he has become a pretty prominent influence; my understanding of Barthelme is almost exactly parallel to my understanding of serious fiction in general.
Of course, every story on here is worth reading at least once if you like Barthelme's style.
Este libro tiene las historias con más elementos combinados entre sí, más trozos de situaciones independientes en un mismo relato, más irónico y más incongruente que he leído de Donald Barthelme.
Hay una diversidad increíble y extravagancia en su pluma(en este libro más): logrando así una narrativa única con ese estilo de escritura particular e inconfundible.Cuando se habla de originalidad y estilo se dice que «No hay nada original, ya todo está dicho.
Porque, en serio, dice cosas que nunca me habría imaginado.La verdad, no sé si entienda del todo lo que dice Donald Barthelme(aunque cada vez creo entenderle más, que al inicio cuando me dejaba llevar por lo imaginativo de la cuestión) pero se me hace muy agradable.
Has someone else already written this exact review? If so, I apologize." . . . at long last, for better or for worse, the Absurd has in these pages been equated with the Goofy. Hardly one of the 14 stories ends without a wry twist proclaiming that even its metaphysical protest has been all in fun." - The New York Times. This is a blurb from the back of my edition.Whoever wrote that ought to have been asked to stop reviewing literature and start reviewing tires or blenders.
I'd always seen the cover around, with the beard and glasses but never read it untill college. The Batman story. Some of it is kind of annoyingly "cute" but most are incredibly well-constructed. They fool you into one kind of mood then switch to something else towards the end. 'Snow White' is another good one he did, also any of his other short story collections.
A series of short stories, some again very good and some seem so far out of left field, do wonder if this is due to my age. I'm 40 today, maybe you have to have been around in the 60's to understand some of what Barthelme seems to be writing about, or maybe I haven't done enough drugs.
Miss Arbor said. "Mr. Peterson, are you absurd?" Her enormous lips were smeared with a glowing white cream. "I beg your pardon?" "I mean," Miss Arbor said earnestly, "do you encounter your own existence as gratuitous? Do you feel de trap? Is there nausea?" "I have an enlarged liver," Peterson offered. "That's excellent!" Miss Arbor exclaimed. "That's a very good beginning! Who Am I? tries, Mr. Peterson, to discover what people really are. People today, we feel, are hidden away inside themselves
WHOLE LOTTA LOT LOT.I liked a couple more QUITE A BIT.I was UNINTERESTED in some.A couple of them made me feel SO BORED.I have no idea what 2 stories where about.
Strange.Despite the fact that I had a really hard time with some stories, I feel like it was worth reading this book and I have the ABSURD urge to read more Barthelme.
That night a tall foreign-looking man with a switchblade big as a butcherknife open in his hand walked into the loft without knocking and said "Good evening, Mr. Peterson, I am the cat-piano player, is there anything you'd particularly like to hear?" "Cat-piano?"[...]"Let me explain," the tall foreign-looking man said graciously.
come back, Donald B, it (was) is one of the greatest collections in US literature. avant-garde, metafiction, complicated jokes, catchy phrases, multiplicity of styles and no landscapes at all (as DB wanted from his students).
#1001books #621leftAnother that I did not understand. A star for interesting ideas (a short story about Batman? Yes, please) and another for pretty good writing--lots of different styles. Unsure what he was going for here, though.
This is just magnificent. I'm in love with his style.
Absurd and fun.
only 25% of it read i found it hard for this book to keep may attention and did not like how the story changed. i skimmed through the book and could not follow the story. i then went into my garage and found a very interesting book called "go big or go home" and will be doing my booktalk on it. i dropped "Come Back, Dr. Caligari" and picked up "go big or go home" i read this book in about a week and was interesting and was a very smooth book.
Donald Barthelme richiede ispirazione, non lo si può leggere nei ritagli di tempo.E’ necessario quin
Una lite molto banale, credo proprio.
Tu sostenevi che lo avevo fatto apposta, ma io ribattei che era stata mancanza di nutrimento adatto durante l'adolescenza.
Persi, come era giusto che fosse naturalmente, e tu dicesti che non avevo diritto alla minestra.
E io dissi: ma è stato per amor tuo!
o non mangerai nemmeno domani a colazione.
E io dissi: ma l'amore fa girare il mondo!, e tu dicesti: nè domani a pranzo.
E io dissi: ma una volta vivevamo l'uno per l'altra!
e tu dicesti: e neppure domani sera a cena.
Ma magari, dissi io, una caramellina?"[caramellina].

Barthelme at his best is weird and wonderful.
Try “The Piano Player”, a four page miniature, and tell me: doesn’t this make your synapses fire in a way they never did before?
And his writing doesn’t need to be “experimental” to be fantastic, some of the best stories in this collection are exceedingly simple.
“Miss Mandible and me”, for instance, in which a thirty-five year old guy finds himself in sixth grade again, or ” Marie, Marie, hold on tight”, my very favorite, in which a demonstration against the human condition goes awry.
“Only” four stars though, because in my humble opinion this his first collection also contains a dud or two.
Non è una raccolta di racconti facile quella di Barthelme. È come un viaggio in una sorta di ottovolante della letteratura. In alcuni racconti non è facile entrare, in altri si è facilmente inghiottiti e se ne esce storditi. Tutti i racconti però hanno qualcosa di unico, stravagante, stra-ordinario. Qualcosa che non ha definizione né catalogazione. Una letteratura che non segue schemi ma che li crea e li distrugge ad ogni parola. Per chi ama la parola e l'invenzione e non cerca solo una storia.
Hay algunas historias a las que me fue realmente complicado encontrarles algun sentido. Sin duda el estilo de Barthelme es muy peculiar y no apto para todo público. A pesar de leer con esfurzo algunos de estos relatos, otros como "Fugitivo" y "¿En el barco?" son cuentos que disfruté bastante y seguramente permaneceran en mi memoria por buen tiempo.
I fell in love with Donald Barthelme while I was in college. Not the man himself - his writing. On rainy winter Saturdays in New York City, I would curl up with a bottle of cheap red wine and a collection of Barthelme short stories. He is one of the strongest inspirations I had in deciding to become a writer.
I read this on the flight to Texas, while seated next to a screaming infant. That combined with the drone of the engine was appropriate background noise while reading this. Uncomfortable and surreal.
By far the greatest collection of short stories from Donald Barthelme. I believe this was actually my introduction to his work and it immediately sent me on a never-ending quest for everything he has ever written. Paperbacks have always been hard to find and almost impossible in hard cover 1st ed.
Read this in college. Some of his most traditional work, at times wry and ironic and sometimes prosaic, but always intelligent. I read much of 60 Stories and 40 Stories, as well as his novel Snow White, but always wished for the return of the more modernist work in this compilation
some long time ago. browsing in an old dusty used bookstore i came upon this little jewel with it's weird but brilliant edward gorey cover. then the words! this was my introduction to donald barthelme and nothing has been the same since.
Mind-expanding and insightful when the prose is transparent. Good-for-nothing and aloof when it's too secretive.
