https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21717.Triptych
Triptych. A three panel painting or photograph. Generally a large center panel with a hinged smaller panel on either side. The three panels combined may display one larger view, three different views of the same subject or three related subjects. The casual observation will enjoy the three panel experience. Intellectual observers will contemplate weather the three views together offer a larger spectrum of it's subject. It's the curious observer that sees the hinges.....
It's hard to explain without ruining it for someone who hasn't read it yet, but the way Slaughter set the tone and your beliefs regarding certain characters and then turned them on their heads was seriously awesome.
I have never read a book where the author managed that in quite that way.
This was my first Karin Slaughter book.
It was excellently written and the story very layered.
She and Will are damaged with a capital "D." I'm curious to see where this series and their story goes, so I will definitely be checking out the next one.
There were moments that were rather shocking and hideous but I quickly found myself unable to turn away from the story, the mystery and the characters.
I need to know more about this guy and Triptych is just the beginning.The setting is Atlanta, Georgia.
As each character is introduced and their personal stories start to unfold I struggled with keeping my emotions and reaction towards them in check.
We are introduced to a character John Shelley whose life was stripped away from him at a young age, convicted of one of these past murders.
If you are particularly offended by vicious violence or the world of seedy prostitution then this book may not be for you but I thought Karin captured it all perfectly, especially John's time in prison which I was utterly moved by and truly felt his torment.
I've had this book on my bookshelf for a few years now not realising it featured Special Agent Will Trent and only wish I'd read it sooner as it's a brilliant book introducing Will and his history.
Although this is a standalone book it can be read with or without further Will Trent books.
EDIT: Reread as of December 1, 2015Sometimes, if I'm in a good mood, I believe in second chances.
I decided to give Triptych another chance because  Hridya said that Michael (the fucktard who I thought was the lead) is not the hero of this book but Will Trent.
Sometimes my stupidity astounds me.Anyway, so there I was, rereading this book and here are my thoughts.The GoodThe gore.
I love my crime books dirty and gritty and Karin Slaughter gave that to me so kudos to that.
He's the type of character that needs to have a second chance.
I have read other books by this author, but somehow, I never got around to the Will Trent series.
This story introduces us to Will Trent, a Georgia Bureau of Investigation specialist, who arrives in Atlanta after a string of murders involving teenage girls, catches his attention.
As Will and Angie navigate the treacherous waters of race and wealth, amid the troublesome rumors surrounding one of the officers close to case, they unwittingly discover a link from the past involving the murder of another teenager.
The beginning of the book can be a little uneven at times because the set up involves the introduction of several storylines, and timelines, going on all at once.
I'm not drooling all over myself like I did for Pretty Girls (the first Karin Slaughter novel I'd ever read, excuse me, I'm so sorry) but I'm definitely feeling like a Serbian who just won a gold medal for water polo at the summer Olympics.
Side note: how much do you want to bet those skull hats are what's causing so many of them to go bald?But I digress...somehow in my long and illustrious mystery-thriller reading definitely not a career career I had totally missed out on Will Trent and this series.
But sadly, there was something I didn't like in the latter part of the book which sort of ruined my enjoyment from the previous chapters.I must admit I had high hopes for this series as I've heard many good things about it.
He was just too weak for my liking.Anyway, let’s talk about Angie since I found that she was the most interesting and complex character in this book.
(Sorry Will, but you weren’t needed here.)Well, to tell you the truth, despite the predictable plot and my problem with Will’s character, there were multiple things I enjoyed about this book.
4.5 stars.A bit gruesome at times but a solid read. Will Trent is a very intriguing character. Look forward to reading more about him.  In the city of Atlanta, women are dying—at the hands of a killer who signs his work with a single, chilling act of mutilation. Leaving behind enough evidence to fuel a frenzied police hunt, this cunning madman is bringing together dozens of lives, crossing the boundaries of wealth and race. And the people who are chasing him must cross those boundaries too. Amon
Look forward to reading more about him.
And Angie Polaski, a beautiful vice cop who was once Michael's lover before she became his enemy.But another player has entered the game: a loser ex-con who has stumbled upon the killer's trail in the most coincidental of ways—someone who may be the key to breaking the case wide open
It was a triptych, three canvases hinged together to make one image when it was open, another image when it was closed.
It was just like Angie, one thing inside, another out.
I don't know what to make of Angie.
"Think about what's going to happen to you."The light went out.The door closed.
This is my first Slaughter novel and I have to say that I feel pretty mixed about it.
Ms. Slaughter has a way of building up a story to a harsh crescendo with many interesting and somewhat believable characters that collide in a very dysfunctional and bloody mess.
Despite this the story is extremely fascinating and I just had to find out how all the pieces would come together in the end.
Triptych is a novel that with a more careful and thoughtful hand could have ended up being a noir detective masterpiece instead of a pretty good police thriller.
This is the first in Karin Slaughter's Will Trent series and the first book I've read of hers.
The mutilation of her body is similar to that of two young girls attacked elsewhere and Will believes a serial rapist is at large and may have escalated to murder.
At around the time of the first attack, John Shelley was released from prison after 23y for rape and murder of a 15y old girl.
John just wants to put his time in prison behind him and get on with rebuilding his life but someone has other plans for him.This was quite a graphic and gripping novel with plenty of nail biting action as Will hunts down the rapist and killer.
Wow! Thanks Goodreads friends for recommending this fine mystery. Will Trent is my new favorite. Sorry Jackson Brodie. A shout-out to PiirateSteve who wrote a very nice poem about the 3rd book in the series, which sent me on a quest for the first.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Holy poop I’m really far behind on reviewing. And you know what’s awesome? All the library books I read while on Christmas vacay are now disappearing from my Kindle making my notes go “poof” . . . . .  (Hey Goodreads, why don’t you figure out how to make your super not awesome feature of Kindle note sharing work for library books instead of just shit I had to buy on Amazon. Kthanks!)Anyway, like I said I’m really far behind, I read thi
(Hey Goodreads, why don’t you figure out how to make your super not awesome feature of Kindle note sharing work for library books instead of just shit I had to buy on Amazon.
Kthanks!)Anyway, like I said I’m really far behind, I read this nearly two weeks ago and I am senile so I don’t have any quotey quotes to share.
I totally got to link one of your “I lurved it, it was gud” reviews LOLOLOLOL) has been telling me to read Karen Slaughter until she’s blue in the face, but I’m a jerkoff so I ignored her.
I'm going to warn you : Triptych is short on likeable characters, and Karin Slaughter doesn't shy away from picturing gruesome violence on page, so perhaps don't read it if that's something that could trigger you.
Oh, and probably because he's the only character who's thoroughly likeable and did I say that you'll want to protect him?
In the end, I feel sick to my stomach but I can't deny that I don't regret starting this series for one second : thrillers whose appeal doesn't revolve around some final twist are way too rare for me to look away, and I'll definitely read more of Will Trent's investigations really soon.
I am so happy it is the first book in the series.
This book was so suspenseful, I love a good thriller and its a good mystery also.
I really want more of Will Trent,Nobody would of cared about the death of Aleesha Monroe, the prostitute slain in the Atlanta Housing Project if the killer had not of bitten off her tongue.
Since Aleesha is the fourth such victim in recent months, Detective Michael Ormewood is under intense pressure from his lieutenant to close the case.
The pressure is only intensified when Will Trent, the Georgia Bureau of Investigations Special Criminal Apprehenshion Team is assigned to the case.
Its a dark mystery and thriller.
This, Triptych, is as close to man-fiction as a book written by a woman can get.
Karin Slaughter definitely knows what she's doing.
But don't read it if graphic violence makes you cringe.
Don't read it if you want to believe all inmates are the scum of the earth.
Don't read it if you have manly bits and are particularly sensitive, I can't guarantee there won't be trauma.
Slaughter already, know this: the first half of the book rocks!
Not that it makes a bad book.
Triptych being merely a damn good thriller?
Evil book!
Evil Karin Slaughter, how dare she teasing me like that.

Love reading this authors books,get hooked on the characters and it's a gritty storyline.loved the grant county series.and getting to know new characters will be reading more of this series.fantastic author.
Added to the mix is John Shelly, recently released from prison after being convicted of murdering a girl when he was only a teenager.
Coincidentally, her tongue was bitten off as well.The book alternates between the cops' view and that of John Shelly, and it has a very split personality.
The scenes from the cops' point of view seem dull and plodding by comparison, and it was hard to work up much enthusiasm for any of those characters.Shelly insists that he was innocent of the crime for which he was convicted, and he fears that someone is attempting to frame him for the current murders and send him back to prison.
4.25 stars!! A very intense book, I had a constant feeling of angst the entire time. KS did a great job with this book. I will definitely be reading the next in this series. Will Trent pulled at my heartstrings.
This book was recommended to me on Goodreads by Bips sometime ago and for whatever reasons I have continually put it to one side while I read another book.
Well this week I am trying to catch up on my recommendations and it is proving to be very successful.
This book is the 1st in the Will Trent series by Karin Slaughter and is an excellent read.
I started it yesterday morning and just had to finish last night when really I should have been asleep.
The book starts strongly and with the fast pace and strong characters somehow gets better.
The spoilers are a few things that didn't make sense to me.I really liked the story, but I wish Will was in it more, especially in the beginning.
(view spoiler)[ I will say Ms. Slaughter did completely make me think Michael was a good guy at first, and even felt sorry for him!
(hide spoiler)] The chapters changing going back and forth in years made it so it took me a bit to get into the story.
(hide spoiler)]As for Angie, wish I liked her more because she clearly has had a rough time, but I can see she's not good for Will.
Although to me at first it was a struggle with this book it built to a fast and exciting end, with t
I wasn’t the hugest fan of the way things were revealed in this, but overall it didn’t bother me too much and I really liked it. This was eerie as hell.Also: this would have been 4 stars if not for the excessive use of some language/slurs that bugged me.
Odličan početak serijala! :)
I didn't think this book would do it for me..as I'm addicted to the Grant county books. It was really good! Karin Slaughter is on her game!
Another Slaughter binge has begun.I in no way expect to be on the money for any future books but somehow I was able to call the twists and villains of this book and I still enjoyed the hell out of it.
I loved how manipulatively Slaughter wrote the narratives for this and it was so fascinating to experience.
I have many bookies in love with Will Trent and while I'm not there yet..
I want to know more of this atypical hero character.
I want to know more of his suffering, his struggles, and how he feeds cheese to the ugly dog he inherited.
It was easy to immediately sympathise with Michael trying and failing to balance work/home life with a disabled son and unhappy wife.All of this leads to Special Agent Will Trent, a loner detective who tries to hide his dyslexia and complicated past from his colleagues at any cost.
Oh, and I enjoyed the humour Betty provided for a character that came across as far too serious for his own good.The beginning was very layered and surprising with the ending becoming a bit predictable but all in all I can happily recommend this for when you are on holiday or when you need a jolt to get out of a reading slump.
How are the characters in this book related.There appears at times to be various story lines going on in this book.
He comes off likable at first but soon, his polished demeanor begins to fade.In another, Will Trent, is called in to assist local police (including Michael) solve the case.
He is reunited with Angie, a female detective working undercover, who he met when he was 8 in foster care.Angie is the piece that ties them altogether.
4.5 STARS[image error]WOW!!!! What an ending!!! LOVED IT!!! LOVED WILL!!! Looking forward to book 2!!!
