https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/385120.The_Maximus_Poems
Too much blabbering that couldn't have been less poetic if it tried!Not enough poems in these Maximus Poems. Emphatic NO. Demented a bit. DNF.
Homo maximus wrests his life from the underworld as the Gloucester fisherman wrests his from the sea." Olson's striding poetic syllables, says Duncan, are "no more difficult than walking."What is an epic?
The remnants can be found in his first book of poems, "In Cold Hell, In Thicket" which was published around the same time as the first ten Maximus poems.Olson did not consider himself "a poet" or "a writer" by profession, but rather that nebulous and rare "archeologist of morning," reminiscent of Thoreau.
This is Olson's heroic long poem in tribute to Gloucester, Massachusetts and to the people who lived there in which he tells much of its history as a fishing port, even going back to its place in the original Pangaean continent. The poem connects Gloucester to many of the cultural sources we associate with the eastern Mediterranean and south Asia. The larger-than-life figure of Maximus is both Maximus of Tyre and Olson himself. This is one of my favorite things, and i have to touch base with it from time to time.
Was surprised I didn't enjoy this more.
Plenty appealed--the spiraling of time, history into a geographically situated self; the alternative and subjective cartographies;...Harborbetter thanChamplain's--Champlaina European with a home, Americanno placeto go in landlessness aloneresides, the Earth a skidfor the American theSkater all over the surface of (theskinBut something about the overall syntax of the 600 pages seemed haphazard, even on the relative scale of similar mega-life projects; it was too difficult for me to pick up some threads after they had disappeared so long.
But maybe I'm expecting too much.
Will probably return here once I'm in Buffalo and they can set me straight.
Just started a thorough re-reading after 30 years. This is one of the few books I can identify that had a deep effect on me about what a poetic line was, the power of where a line was broken, how it was read. Although likely invisible in my work now, without Maximus I would not be the same poet I am. I recommend every reader check the few but precious youtube videos of Charles Olson reading several of these poems.
sorry world, i simply cannot worship at the Olson altar- he's taken up all the space i could have used to admire him himself. these poems are insular, self-obsessed, driven with a hyper-masculine fear of subtlety, nuance, or stillness. the imagery is leaden, and stuffed with a gross amount of literery references. so hopelessly academic that i wish Olson would have just written an essay instead.
The Maximus poems will do as they do and I will read them all again in in in. But I have to read Heroditus and know nothing about Tyre and also the deep history of Virginia and Boston and the kinds of salt to keep fish and what exactly a shoal feels like and if Adam Smith really was what, a poet, if he was cured of his skin's burns and "meubles" and Thucidides and furthermore Orontes, which C.O. calls a "congested poem." You see all of this plus stuff is to be mine upon reading and reading my C.O.
big, rapturous and sedate by turns, image-thoughts cycled through the four seasons, maritime america, gloucester, mass. immortalized, formal innovation and structure always employed to specific effect, in response to a deeply-felt need. for those addicted to the collision of the monumental and the mundane in the narrative arts. and/or as a primer or a companion to MOBY DICK.
Mundane poems with historical tilts that suddenly jab you with a revelatory one liner. Quite unique and certainly not everyone's taste. I kept thinking that I was reading something special that held secrets for which I didn't have the key, but sometimes got the chance to peek through the keyhole.
interesting...kind of self-absorbed at times. But lots to learn from.
One of my poetry grandfathers.
i hate you, charles olson.HATE YOU.
I do admire Charles Olson's poetry---for its highs and lows.
I do find "his" idea of 'istorin compelling (one of those elegantly simple yet difficult things) but a little dubious with regard to his own poetry in that it's as though he is saying "find out for yourself and you'll see that I've been right about everything all along".
And he makes it.
I finished reading The Maximus Poems for the second time walking through a car park.
Reading the words of an Englishman pulled from history and moulded into the shape of Olson's Gloucester while walking through the concrete landscape was incredibly fitting.
Olson is the close of the journey Ezra Pound began with his Cantos: a journey that started in the United Stars and expanded uncontrollably into Europe's long history and traditions.
Here, that traveller returns to the small town of Gloucester, bringing with him those stories, those relationships, those lives, & trapping them.
These poems are not meant to be read quickly.
They are made to be lived with.
Olson was just experimental enough in this ambitious volume and I like that his tone stays fairly lowbrow and relatable throughout. The random touches are great, like repeatedly using an open parenthesis with no close, or spelling "said" "sd". The only drawback is that the content can get quite boring: Massachusetts and fishing boats are not the most intriguing topics for me. But overall the collection sways between mythology, history, and personal events in a pretty compelling mish-mash. Very American, but in a universal way, not blind patriotism.
I don't often not give a book a rating - but I don't think I'm qualified to give a rating because I think my reading experience was orthogonal to what the author intended.
I think he wanted a reader who has a reading ship full of barnacles slowing down the eyes.
My ship sailed too smoothly and quick, which I'm sure left a lot of the poetry out.
Good thing I only had the 1960 edition and not the complete edition - I think my reading ship would have never have left shore.
As it is, I don't regret the voyage, but don't want to take it again or further.
A rare "liked it" rather than "really liked it" from me. I usually don't bother reviewing books unless I really liked them. Anyway. I love the language of this, I love the form, Olson is undoubtedly an amazing poet. The content just leaves me cold. Maybe because I didn't grow up in Gloucester, MA? But, like... there's this part where he goes off on a rant on the editor of the local newspaper for *some* slight and I just found myself going "Really, Charles Olson? This is how you're choosing to spend this poem?"
alternately lovely and tedious, as any huge collection is bound to be: but under this a counter-history of the u.s., and obsessive reprocessing of gloucester and it's ghost-double of dogtown, and a complicated map of the fort and the cut and the islands in gloucester harbor and many stories of boys on fishing boats in storms at night far away. most excellent for the head if you find yourself being on cape ann and want to be convinced that it is multiple but haven't quite been able to find confirmation of that. the lovely parts are lovely indeed.
As I mention in my review of the Olson biography I'm reading, this book stands to become a monumental obsession for me. It could change my life. I may finally consume it, drop out of my current life, move to a lonely Cape Ann on Cape Ann and watch the waves pound against Bass Rocks until they wear away the shore of my sanity. But, alas, I can't find my way into this tome. Not yet. I will, though. Mark my words. I will, dammit, I will...
On the fading edge of the possibility of the epic poem. Only a great loneliness for the specificity of another distinct human being can keep one tethered to these pages for a continuous reading of the book. And that seems to happen less often nowadays. But this extraordinary project is worth the time and effort if, by chance, you happen to have them available.
I will probably be "currently reading" this book for the rest of my life, but that's a good thing. I'm very into "poetry of place" right now, as well as learning more about open field work, and Gloucester is a very real place in this stuff, and it breathes on the page.
I had all three volumes that make up this book but was glad to get them all in one volume (I gave my old copies to a friend). I cannot sell this to anyone except to say that O's work has been influential for me, and Maximus is a great part of that influence.
currently using this book
o macho poet of gloucesteri will follow you anywhereyou big meanie
"The world does not intimidate. The pay check does."
Refer to ARK review...
Didn't hold up on a recent re-read - I appreciate the scope, but was left cold by the execution of it.
811.54 O524m 1983
The Geography of the imagination...Gloucester as Troy as poem as hero as map as sound as memory as profoundly seminal
If you haven't heard of him...go now and read this collection of poems...NOW!
