https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/236974.Believing_God
I can see why all of Beth's books are turned into group bible studies.
I really like the four key phrases Beth outlines in the book.
These are based on what is said in the bible and really is inspiring as to what you can acheive.
1. God is who he says he is (creator and supreme over all)2.
I can do what God says I can do (if he calls me to a certain cause or action I can be strengthened in Christ and will acheive what he set me to do).I highly recommend this book, it will really challenge you to grow.
This was my first time reading Beth Moore and I truly enjoyed the book.
It is not a light read, but if you have the time to devote to it the book focuses on believing God is who He says He as and we are who He says we are and that is a great message.
She also includes some practical ways to shift your thinking from simply believing in God to truly believing God. I found the personal historical time line and questions to be a great exercise to go through to remind myself of God's past faithfulness.
I did this as a Bible Study and it remains one of my favorites. I even taught the 5 finger pledge to my daughter and it was the cutest thing to hear her say it back.God is who He says he isGod can do what He says He can doI am who God says I amI can do all things, through ChristGod's word is alive and active in meI'm Believing GodIt's all about who is this god you say you believe in? Do you believe He is who He says he is? And how to get there if you don't.
Some of my friends like Beth Moore and I have a couple that hate her.
However, this is one of the best, most biblically sound books on the topic of faith I have read.2.
I have seen some clips of Beth Moore teaching, and I have to say I like her in book form better.
3. I was impacted by this book.
I read most of it in one day, and I really feel like it has made an impact on me.
I highly recommend this book for those who are looking to build their faith in a biblical way.
This book is God-focused, Scripture-based, and contains truths that can transform lives. It's easy to read and understand while still digging deep into the word. The author illustrates her points using accounts from the Bible as well as from her own life. I'd highly recommend this book to anyone who feels like being a Christian hasn't changed them much, or who feel like they're stuck repeatedly falling into sin and can't get free, or those who are seeking the abundant life Christ came to give us.
Title: BELIEVING GODAuthor: Beth MoorePublisher: Broadman and Holman2004ISBN: 0-8054-3189-6Genre: Inspirational/Christian LivingDo you take God at His word, believing what He has told us, or do you just believe in His existence and the salvation He offers?Three years ago, the pastor’s wife in our church had this small group study, using the study guide and the DVD, and it is really life changing.
This book will take you down a path that will literally change the way you pray, change the way you believe, and ultimately, change your life.
SUMMARY: Join best-selling author and Bible teacher Beth Moore in her latest book as she explores what it means to know and truly believe God, not just to believe IN Him. Through the examples of believers like Abraham and Moses, who trusted God's promises, Beth encourages Christians of all ages to deepen their own trust in God, live out their faith and receive a fresh word from Him.REVIEW: This is my first Beth Moore bible study/devotional.
I loved the 5 faith statement base for her study and found this book filled with gems that found their way into my devotional journal.
This book was not my favorite - I much preferred Beth Moore's devotional "David: 90 days with a heart like his".
They are totally different in format, though.Anyway, although it wasn't my favorite, I did like the book.
Beth is a great writer and I feel like I always benefit from her.So, what didn't I like?I felt like some of it was a little hokey.I didn't agree with her chapter about Peter.
(Although, I felt that she gave him more credit than most do).It seemed that there were some chapters that were VERY well written and some that were a big struggle to get through.Glad I read it.
Life changing!Believing God by Beth Moore encouraged me to become more courageous in my faith. I already loved God, but this book inspired new ideas to increase my love for Him every day until I meet Him face to face. To have faith and love for God bubbling out of my pores will be amazing, and I'm really looking forward to a closer relationship with God.Are you ready to live out a radical, brave faith? Then grab a copy of Believing God and dig deep with the One who created you.
This book truly challenges you to not just "know" what the Word of God says, but also to believe all that God says about who He is and who we are in Him. The points and scripture are good, although Moore's style is often too dramatic and emotional for me to get past.
Maybe those women more familiar with Beth Moore would get more out of these half-stories she chooses to reveal.However, there is some solid Biblical truth in this book, and it breaks your heart to remember how much God really does love His creation.
For women in need of encouragement and refreshment, this is one to read (as long as you don't mind getting a little emotional)!
Let me preface this review with this : I am an active Christian. Not a perfect christian, as none of us are, but an active and ardent one none the less. This book was terrible. Beth Moore can't write. At all. It was a struggle to read this, though I had to for a bible study I was in. She's not particularly insightful, most of her examples aren't particularly good and I dislike all her "christianese". I would not recommend this to anyone who actually enjoys reading.
Very valuable for any follower of Christ, whether you've known Him for one day or 50 years.It may be helpful to read the book more than once, to help its truths sink in.The Bible is really the only book! Any Christian book, such as this one, is only good to the degree that it's based on Scripture. This one solidly is.
This is a deep study on believing God is who He says He is, He can do what He says He can do and I am who God says I am...etc. It's taking me a while to get through this study. There is a lot of scripture references to look up. So far ...so good.
I've already read the whole book; this is my second time through it, in preparation to lead the Believing God bible study. It is an absolutely life-changing book if you want to move from living out a mediocre Christian life to finding real victory.
Wonderful study developing the thought that Believing in God and Believing God are two different things.
Very readable, practical, and usable advice.
The author brought up that 1)God promised us a place of blessing.
We all have a place of blessing that God wants us to reach, but we have to choose it.
Often it's because we don't believe the five points I stated above."Blessing is bowing down to receive the expresions of divine favor that in the inner recesses of the human heart and mind make life worth the bother." I know I need to do that.
If he would die for us, would he really keep us from being blessed with goodness?If anyone actually reads this, I hope you make it to your Promised Land too.
Challenged afresh to really believe GodThere is a difference between believing IN God and believing God. Beth Moore, in her usual frank, often funny, always challenging way reminds me that God is who He says He is and He will do what He says He will do. I have read this book more than once as a beginning point with young women that I mentor. It’s not just for their benefit; I am challenged every single time.
This book has been in my Nook library for some time now.
I can't believe I've waited this long to read it.
Beth Moore has a true love for God. She is unapologetic in her feelings and thoughts.
This book gave me the opportunity to really explore my thoughts about God and my relationship with Him. Her 5 statements of faith have become very personal to me - I speak them out loud several times a day.
If you want to deepen your relationship with God, read this book and ask God to speak to your heart.
I'll be praying you do.
Audible featured this book for $5, so I figured "why not?" I have enjoyed several other Beth Moore books.
Ms. Moore argues that Believing in God is not the same as Believing God. In this book she describes a practice designed to strengthen our faith.
Grounding.Throughout the book, Ms. Moore provides good context (e.g. cultural tidbits, historical information).
Having said that, I'm finding that I do prefer the bible studies that focus on a particular person or book.
For those debating the audio vs text.
The narrator is good, but she just doesn't have the personality of Beth.
In this book, Beth Moore presents the promises of the scriptures in order to “catapult us onto a path infinitely higher than this world’s self-centered interstate of mediocrity.” I have loved the practical biblical teachings of Beth Moore since I began the first of many of her bible studies, Breaking Free, ten years ago.
The pages of Believing God instructed me how to walk more closely with my Lord and Savior by choosing to act in faith more consistently.
Beth motivates the reader through references to biblical heroes who acted in faith such as Moses and Joshua as well as through her own painfully personal examples.
I find myself looking forward to reading this book, which I was able to download free as a Kindle book, when I am on the elliptical each morning.
Whether you have read everything Beth Moore has written or have never heard of her, I recommend this book.On further thought, perhaps I should qualify: If you are an atheist or agnostic, you likely won't choose to read this book.
But I still recommend it as a means of seeing from an armchair distance the worldview of Christians.
Read this book.If you are a Christian who doesn't always have her act together [this girl], read this book.
This book was simply dwelling on God's words "Believe Me." We put our trust in so many things blindly--chairs, elevators, the sun, you name it, but we have such a hard time with faith in God. She encourages the reader to first have some ready comebacks for attacks and doubts: God is who He says He is, God can do what He says He can do, I am who God says I am, God's Word is alive and active in me.
The other thing Moore dwells on is remembering God's faithfulness thus far in your life--remembering like writing things and dates down, etc.
This book encouraged me to have my own Ebenezer stone to proclaim and remember God's faithfulness while I activate my will and choose to believe in the 'waiting' room.
This book was insightful in the way that it dug into why we don't believe God and how we can transition to believing him.
The whole book was challenging, but my personal favorite chapter was on "believing you are who God says you are".
We believe we are still that old person dead in our sins with no way out.
Beth went into practical ways we can start to live out who we really are by speaking scripture and truth whenever those wrong mindsets start to arise and then follow through with our actions based on who God says we are and not how we feel.
Not only did I read this book, but I am also doing the Beth Moore Bible study Believing God. I needed to read this book at this point in my life.
I needed to, in essence, circle the wagons and get back to the truth, the bedrock of what I know and believe is true about walking in faith believing God to be who He says He is in His Word; that He does what He says He will do; that I am who He says I am in Christ; that I can do all things through Christ and that His Word is living and active in me.
I can't tell you how many times the key statements of faith in this book have helped me!
I remember reading this as Beth was describing the incredible details that God shared in designing His temple.
She mentioned the blue tassels and suggested tying a blue ribbon around our wrists to remember how faithful God is and that he has a plan.
I looked at my wrist at the time to see a blue band I was wearing and was so humbled to realize how amazing God is in showing us His love.
I love the 5 faith statement:1) God is who He says He is.2) God can do what He says He can do.3) I am who God says I am.4) I can do all things through Christ.5) God's Word is alive and active in me.I'm believing God!I've found saying that everyday has already made a positive change in my life.
Beth goes into each of those statements in detail and how we can claim those and use them in the spiritual battles we face daily.
I highly recommend this book.
This is not a book to breeze through.
It requires some time to mull over concepts and consider what they mean in your life.
I appreciated that while she covered specific issues, the overall topic addressed the very core of one's faith.
It was distracting enough times that it shaved a star off my review.I would recommend this to people.
Beth Moore is one of the kindest writers to ever address difficult issues.
It's as if she's in the mess of life with you instead of sitting above everyone and judging their messes.
I appreciate that more than I can say.
4.5**** This was my first Beth Moore book and I truly enjoyed it.
The author projects strong and proven faith while discussing various aspects of Bible study.
This was a topical study about God and I appreciated the details of verb tense, Hebrew definitions, as well as Biblical and personal events.
Her ideas pulled directly from the Bible which is something I look for in Christian non-fiction.
There are a few things that I immediately applied and sincerely than the lady who recommended this book to me.
I still have my blue string on my wrist...) I have shared this tile with several others already--highly recommend.
Is it really working?
Is it really working?
God’s intention all along has been for the believer’s life to work.
From divine perspective toward terrestrial turf, God meant for his children to succeed.
. .Are our Christian lives successful?
In a recent sermon my son-in-law preached, Curt told us the only way we were going to impact the world and the next generation is to prove that our faith in Christ is real and that it works.
For countless Christians I’m convinced it’s real.
My concern is whether or not we have the fruit to suggest it works.”—Beth Moore; Believing God (from Goodreads)
