https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1115866.The_Famous_Five_4_Adventures_
I consider them great for the author's imagination in creating various situations, plans, and ideas which make the reader want to know what happens in the next book and in the next...
The only thing I don't like is the author's attitude towards male and female roles, but I simply ignored it.
All in all, the books are great for children because they help to create a sense of right and wrong, introduce them with the world of various criminals and troubles we might unexpectedly find ourselves in, and, especially, it's about the importance and joy of friendship whose significance is presented excellently.
I am almost in tears remembering sneaking these books to read under bed covers, during classes, and forgetting to eat to find time in my own quiet spot not-to-be-found during lunch time to devour this series.
Good old Enid Blyton - as sexist as these books read today, I still love them!I have read this series so many many times; I have some of my mum's old set, my set and now have passed them onto my daughter, who also devoured them.
Generally this is a great, innocent series from the days back when life was much simplier and free (ie: no tv's!), kids could run around outside and go camping without perverts everywhere...they could just BE kids!
Great series, very much recommend.
Any series of books that got its own corner of my room, encouraged me to draw treasure maps and made me ask my Dad to build a 'secret entrance' into my room through my wardrobe deserves 4*
These are the first books I ever read. These books made me the book worm I am today. I love all 22 yes 22 books in this amazing series. Ann,Julian,Dick,George and Timmy the dog LOVE adventure and the result is fantastic. I love the adventures,the rage,the characters and off course the people the Famous Five meet along the way. A MUST READ and one off Enid Blytons best moments. BRILLIANT 10/10.Bye 4 Now Smoochies xxx
I have read all the 21 books in the series, and even now, whenever I get low, I read them again.Enid Blyton has to be the greatest children's writer ever.
I have read almost all her works- Famous Five to Secret Seven to Malory Towers To St Claire's to the Enchanted Wood series.
Of late I have not encountered someone who has said to me that he or she has read Famous Five or Secret Seven.One of the reasons why we tend to cling on to Classics like these is because we know that there can never be someone who writes them the way they are- simple, heart-warming and genuinely delightful.
I read them all as a child at the rate of one book every one and a half hours...
I'm still in the process of writing and illustrating my second children's picture book...
the stand-alone sequel to my first book "One Lost Feather" www.facebook.com/onelostfeather A physiotherapist/physical therapist for 17years in my own private practice in Australia, I continue to work as an actress, voiceover artist and model.
I am in the process of selecting from a body of over 400 poems I have written over the years to include in my first poetry anthology.
With love and sunshine, "Lai Peng" Chan www.imdb.me/laipengchan
Aah the Famous Five, my great comfort at one time.
Had a full on obsession with these books.
The adventures of four children and a rather obedient dog are documented in the series spanning 21 books (and 1 short stories collection).
Tomboy George, never Georgina inherits an island and has her own boat.
The four children regularly meet up for their school holidays to go on camping trips etc...
When they get together trouble is not long in finding them.
Adventures, picnics and old style English language- undoubtedly the most memorable books from my childhood.
I remember reading these and The Three Detectives series as a kid.
A group of kids going on adventures?
Camping, hiking and generally having loads of fun?
Yeah, they were brilliant for a kid like me.
They got to do all the things I never did (because honestly, I just haven't come across to many smugglers or murderers or mysteries in general), and I must have read all more than once at least.
I'm not sure they'd hold up with me now, but I'll definitely try to pass them on to my kids someday, because they certainly kept 10-year-old-me plenty entertained.
Being a non-native english reader. These are what introduced me to the language itself. These were the gateway to the world of books for me. I'd still choose to be the boy with eyes brimming of adventure, when I was reading this 10 years ago.
A good read, can pick up anytime and re-read. Timeless stories.
I lost count how many time I read these stories. Never thought the TV series did them justice.
I think I have read almost all of her books. This was my childhood! I remember going to the library to take out these books. Enid Blyton is my favourite children's author.
Super Duper interesting crazy
Saya ingat membaca seri ini waktu umur 9 tahun.
Saya tahu buku ini dari mama saya yang semasa kecilnya juga membaca buku-buku karya Enid Blyton.
Saya suka petualangan Julian, Dick, Anne, dan George serta Timmy yang mendebarkan.
Saya suka watak Julian yang bertanggung jawab, Dick yang menyenangkan, Anne yang keibuan, George yang pemberani, dan Timmy yang pintar.Rasa ingin tahu mereka yang besar mengantarkan mereka kepada petualangan yang mendebarkan dan tak jarang juga berbahaya.
Seri ini cocok sebagai pengenalan anak-anak untuk menumbuhkan minat baca mereka.
Bukunya tidak tebal, gaya bahasanya mudah dimengerti, tokoh-tokoh yang menyenangkan, juga petualangan mereka yang seru.
During my childhood days I used to have a lot of time and interest in reading, I had a fascination of having an adventurous life.
Then my Librarian noticed my interest and suggested me to read Famous Five.
So that was the beginning and there were only 14 books belonging to this series, so after that I asked my Librarian where I could read the rest, to which she asked me to wait until a few days.
So within a month she arranged the books for the school Library and that is how I read the complete series of 21.Best Books for Children

This was one of the first 'novels' I have read and from what I gather from people around me, these books have been their introduction to the world of fiction as wellThe plots are interesting and the language simple. The four cousins and Timmy create a world around them which is interesting, yet not very complex. It has made her one of the finest writers of novels for the young. Although it might not make for an interesting novel for a matured reader, it caters to the target segment of young readers really well.
As a young reader I found them unputdownable. Living in an era of borrowing books from libraries and not so often buying them, I would go a long way to get the next in the series for myself.I adored any book by the author and these were my favourites. I cannot imagine my childhood without these stories which fired my imagination and added coloured my life.These gave me hours of adventures in the company of characters who shared the love of exploring and getting into situations children thrive in.

"They are sexist, dated and and Blyton herself didn't even like children so they are probably hypocritical as well." Good, now we have got that out of the way I can say that whilst all the above may be true, I read these voraciously as a girl, they gave me the habit of reading, they are well written, exciting and I have nothing but fond memories of them even now.
What can possibly be more exciting than having your own island to camp on and catching smugglers whilst you're at it?
Oh yeah, and all with Timmy the dog at your heels.
It gets four stars for the sake of my childhood and because I really liked George. I still have a strong dislike of Anne - all she seems to do is cook and clean for the rest of them, and she's just such a meek character. What I remember most about these books is that they kept going on picnics and ate a lot :) I got terribly excited reading these as a child though, especially if there were secret passageways involved.
While I unfortunately don't find these books as enjoyable today as ten years ago - don't get me wrong, they are still classic - they are the books that made me love reading. I read my first Five book at the age of nine or ten and soon I had worked my way through the whole series. They are fun and exciting and made me want to become a detective.They also turned reading english books from something I ought to do into something I loved doing.
I love this collection. I started reading the Famous Five when I was in elementary. I remember it was hard in Indonesia to have a full collection of this series. So, I was so happy every time I found a title that I haven't collected yet.These books are exciting and exploring my childhood dream. When I read it again during my elder age, I find them still charming. I love enid blyton and famous five!
As a child I thought that these were wonderful stories. I recently found out that my mum thought that the outdated language and middle-class-ness of them would put me off, however as a child I only saw the adventures. I found Anne irritating, but generally enjoyed the stories and I liked that they weren't 'girly' (I remember being embarrassed about enjoying 'girly' books as I saw them). The Famous Five are just jolly good fun adventure stories.
This was my childhood favorite. One of the best series I've ever read.I couldn't even force myself to read them now, since firstly - I couldn't read them now. The wya in which they were written and the way the characters addressed each other is very very different from one would read nowadays in a current book. But mostly, I wouldn't read them again because now I might not like them as much as I had when I was younger. And I don't want to ruin my perception of this series, ever. :)
a book series that actually inspired me to start reading many and many more adventure books today.If i have read a book today then it is all because of that famous five book which inspired me.It would be my great pleasure to say i read 1000 books in my live , still famous five will be one among my FAVOURITESSSSSSSSS.
This series is the most memorable series of my life.Well this line might seem awkward as this series seems to be the children stuff!!!But this series is the only thing that brought me up for reading, which now has already become my hobby. Hats off to the writer and his imagination to come up with the 21 books of utmost adventure and surprises...
This was one of my favorite series as a child. Whenever we were in the UK I read them nonstop. There are some issues with gender biases, but I loved the fact that the kids were independent and solved the problems on their own. My kids enjoy them too (probably for the same reason) though they don't gobble them up like I did.
I read all of the books when I was a kid though I had none of the books. I just borrowed them from my friend or school library. The exciting experiences of theirs attracted me so much. Camping, hiking, and also picnic! I love picnic. I wondered how I could have such experiences like theirs. My childhood's favorite!
