https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40669887-cheaper-by-the-dozen
Dad himself used to tell a story about one time when Mother went off to fill a lecture engagement and left him in charge at home.
'He belongs next door.'This probably goes without saying, but other than being about a very large family, the Steve Martin movie Cheaper by the Dozen has pretty much zero in common with this book.*One of their daughters, Mary, died in her childhood.
I vividly remember how disappointed I was as a teen when I ran the numbers mentally and realized that the family never had twelve living children at the same time.
"How can the dad say his children were cheaper by the dozen?
Read this book to meet the father and the rest of the Gilbreth family.
A family with twelve kids!
It is watching the family as a whole that is the attraction of the book.
They live in Montclair, New Jersey, Providence, Rhode Island, and Nantucket, Massachusetts, in the first half of the 20th century.
I know Nantucket and Providence.
While the story is extremely amusing what we are told is also true.
At the same time we see his loving nature, his kindness and his sense of justice.
It is two of the family’s twelve children that are the authors of this book.
Frank was the kind of man who, never having touched a brick in his life, would walk up to a bricklayer and tell him just how best to do his job (and be completely right), but he also took a personal interest in each of his children and was to be seen loitering around their schools and chaperoning the girls on dates.
(The only element that seems somewhat dated is a description of a Chinese cook.)I read the 2013 Open Road Media edition via NetGalley, which has bonus end material including mini-biographies of the authors and a terrific series of black-and-white family photos.This book gave me plenty of laughs at a time when I really needed that distraction; I highly recommend it as lighthearted and heartwarming reading.
(If I'm not wrong, there's a second one with him, too.)I grant that this extremely light memoir of family life in pre-World War One America paints an extremely rosy picture, but it is not unrealistic.
One reason this book is worth reading in our fear-stricken age is that it is a reminder that, at least on the surface, a self-made man in the early 20th century could set up a virtual palace for his family, perform civic duties cheerfully and give his children a sense of well-being.The obvious question for anybody reading this review is, "Is CHEAPER BY THE DOZEN a lie?" Ultimately not.
What I took from this book in sixth grade was that a family could believe in diligence, good works and duty and still be happy.
Mykle and I are reading this together right now, and we cannot turn a page without him busting up laughing.The only thing I hate about this book is the cover on my copy, which is a picture from the movie "Cheaper by the Dozen" starring Steve Martin.
I HATE this because the movie and the book are completely separate stories, and the image of one should NOT be used to endorse the other; the one and ONLY thing that the family in the movie has in common with the family in the book is that they have twelve children.
Yup, still as delightful as it was when I was a kid.
Somehow I missed, back then, that Mother, too, was an engineer.
And the bonus of re-reading it now is that I can go online and find out that the Time-Motion analyses were real, and even see some of the films and promotional pictures.
My family values efficiency & economy to a very high degree, but we're pikers compared to Gilbreth.
I would have loved to learn Morse code the way these kids did!
Anyway, yes, if you haven't treated yourself to this yet, it's about time you did.
In real life, the Gilbreth father was an acolyte of efficiency engineer Frederick "Speedy" Taylor (1856-1915), considered the founder of "the theory of scientific management." Taylorism, as it had come to be called, destroyed the craft underpinnings of much of the manufacturing industry in the US, and segmented factory workers' activities into simple, repetitious, mind-numbing tasks.
If I were subjected to the indignities inflicted on the Gilbreth children by their father, I would have gone on strike, or run away from home as soon as possible.
Not so the book.
11/12/17 $1.99 for Kindle version.
Lovely tale of a huge family with great parents who were masters of economy at home and on the job, both were efficiency experts. It ends sort of abruptly when their father passes at a young age.
This is one of the more hilarious books ever! It's also an incredible history of an incredible family. The Gilbreths are absolutely incredible, and their stories are ridiculous to the point of unbelievability ... but they're true!Mr. Gilbreth (Dad) is the best, but I really like Ernestine, too ... and Anne ... and Mrs. Gilbreth is pretty neat ... and everyone else. xDI'm not going to try to list all the amazing stuff about this book ... you should read it yourself! :)~Kellyn Roth, Reveries Reviews
I loved when they all jumped off the ship and swam to shore leaving him behind and only then realizing that he could sail that ship all on his own, but instead had made it a learning experience for them.I think am going to try something similar to his method for teaching my children foreign languages.
I think it is important to learn another language, and often I wish that I had taken the time to learn Spanish as it would be helpful quite often where we live.I thought about the trust the mother had for the father that she was willing to let him try his “efficiency” methods out on her family.
Here's a brief overview from Wikipedia: "Cheaper by the Dozen is a biographical book written by Frank Bunker Gilbreth, Jr. and Ernestine Gilbreth Carey that tells the story of time and motion study and efficiency experts Frank Bunker Gilbreth and Lillian Moller Gilbreth, and their twelve children.
The book focuses on the many years the family resided in Montclair, New Jersey.
It was adapted to film by Twentieth Century Fox in 1950." (Hollywood should have stopped with THAT film!) I first read this book when I was going through a severe bout of anxiety/depression.
Now I'm reading the book aloud to Janna, and we're both laughing.
★★★★★ –I loved everything about this book – the plot line, the way the story flowed, the characters and their interactions with each other, the writing style – everything was perfect to keep me interested in the story and the characters.
This is a definite keeper and re-reader.It's about Frank and Lillie Gilbreth, pioneers in the science of motion study, and their 12 children.
I love how the children interact with each other and the relationship with their parents.
Because the book was set in the early 1900's, Lillie (the mother) does seem to defer to Frank quite a bit and doesn't seem to really have her own voice until toward the end of the book.
This book was SO much better than the Steve Martin remake of the movie! I loved the book. The father is an efficiency expert and his attempts to make his family the most organized, smartest bunch of kids on the planet might have been terrible if he hadn't been such a lovable, larger-than-life man. Even though the events took place a hundred years ago (literally), the writing style is so lively and fresh, the story never feels dated. If you get a chance to read it, this book is hilarious.
I re-read this book for the third time last night, it's been a few years since I last read it, and I was reminded of how much I enjoy it. It's hilarious!I've always enjoyed this book and wondered what it would have been like to have actually lived with the Gilbreths.(view spoiler)[Isn't it sad that although their dad pushed them through grades and made them skip he never got to see any of them through college or get married? (hide spoiler)]
I really enjoyed this cute and funny look at a family of 12 kids in the 1920s. I want to read more books about the family now.
I picked up an ebook copy of this old favorite, which I read so many times when I was a kid.
This is the only book which has ever made me want a large family; right now I’m feeling a little twinge of regret that I have only two children.It’s a collection of anecdotes, really: rides in Foolish Carriage; visiting Mrs. Murphy; Victrolas playing French and German lessons at bath time ("unavoidable delay"); motion study tonsillectomies; Morse code painted on the wall; dinner conversation which must be of general interest; “Eskimos” in the house.
O man, I still think about this just about every time I button a shirt.
Y'know, it's interesting growing up in a town of 1100, with a mother who didn't buy many books because, after all, we did have a free library.
Sure, I guess the adult section was well-enough stocked to keep her busy in the time she could spare from the three of us.
But there are *so many* children's books I missed out on.
And also some adult books I found to read and reread, like this, and Robert Benchley, Emily Kimbrough, and James Thurber, etc.
This is a great book based on a little, quiet, mediocre family.
Oh OK, so it's not a LITTLE family.
Well, in that case, it is not about a quiet family, either (since we're talking about 12 children here).
And I might as well just tell you right now that it's also not about a mediocre family.Honestly, it was fun book with many moments where I was laughing out loud.
I admire the family for being so efficient and systematic, but I know I could never live in such an orderly home.
Fun book. I can't imagine having twelve kids though.
This is the perfect book to listen to in the car with your kids on a road trip.
I'd been listening to it on my own, and it came on one time in the car.
As much as I love Steve Martin and Bonnie Hunt, the movie doesn't do the book justice, especially with Frank's (the father's) character.
Frank loved precision and efficiency, and found so many ways to help his family operate in top form.
The best scene is late in the book and has to do with the junior high aged kids finding a love note in a drawer, memorizing it, and singing it in three part harmony the next time their sister's beau comes over.
A truly charming and heartwarming book about the efficiency expert Frank Gilbreth, his wife, and their dozen children - written by two of the children (Frank Jr. and Ernestine).This book was a massive best-seller back in its day.
But it's a touching and entertaining window into a time now long gone.Please do not mistake it for the current movies of the same title, which have as little to do with the book as Eddie Murphy's Doctor Dolittle movies have to do with Hugh Lofting's beloved classic books for children.The movies should be forgotten.
I love this book.
I read it for the first time many years ago and was fascinated.
It's still a great read!
(I have an old hardbound edition which was published in 1949.)I love the following quote at the end of the book--"There was a change in Mother after Dad died.
Before her marriage, all Mother's decisions had been made by her parents.
If his interests had been in basket weaving or phrenology, she would have followed him just as readily."While Dad lived, Mother was afraid of fast driving, of airplanes, of walking alone at night.
When things went wrong at dinner, she sometimes burst into tears and had to leave the table.
I'm not certain if I have read this before or not. The one thing I didn't remember/know is that it is a true story. The movie follows the book quite well. The chapters just had me laughing out loud. This is a true gem of a book.
Simple and heartwarming memoir of a life in a 12 children family of two motion study experts written by two of the twelve. Or, the real origin of the family meeting. :)
I adored this book as a child-and as a grown-up was pleased to find out the mother became a successful businesswoman in her own right after her husband's death.
The family is witty and clever and the kids loved hearing about various pranks and laughs they had together.We don't hear a lot about their mother, but she seems pretty amazing -- she used the time of her "confinement" right after having a baby to read, write, and edit research papers!
Great example.The details about the 1920s - cars, jazz music, a growing sense of fashion, moving pictures -- were wonderful because I knew they were accurate and written by someone who lived during the time.
Absolutely hilarious book! My father is one among ten siblings and stories of how my grandparents raised them when they were young were fascinating! The Gilbreth’s beat them by having 12 children back in the early 1900’s! The industrial engineer father and his wife Lillian, a psychologist raise twelve kids by applying all principles that would work on a factory floor with machines. The book is funny and very deep on so many levels. Family values, sibling rivalry , mutual respect and love are in abundance in this heart warming book. Truly a must read !
just saw this and remembered how much i loved it when i was a younger. haven't read it in years
Very interesting book from the early 1900s. Nothing like either of the two movies.
