https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/591354.In_a_Lonely_Place
“Once he’d had happiness but for so brief a time; happiness was made of quicksilver, it ran out of your hand like quicksilver. There was the heat of tears suddenly in his eyes and he shook his head angrily. He would not think about it, he would never think of that again. It was long ago in an ancient past. To hell with happiness. More important was excitement and power and the hot stir of lust. Those made you forget. They made happiness a pink marshmallow.”  Dorothy B. HughesI’d known Dix Steele
“I’ll tell you what Dix we will shove off as soon as the girls get back.”I was expecting him to say something along the lines of that wouldn’t be necessary, but he just nodded to me and said: “That dame with the probing eyes would be a pleasure to throttle.”I pulled Dorothy aside before she could sit down.
That evening was the last time I saw Dix or Dorothy, but not the last time I heard of them.
It seems Dix was right about Dorothy being obsessed with him.
Gloria Grahame looked exactly like the kind of dame that always liked Dix. I had to admit I liked the movie better.
Hughes until the recent re-release of this novel made a bunch of the crime writers I follow on social media start gushing about the book and film loosely based on it.
And Dorothy Hughes was creating this character long before the psychology and terminology referring to them would become mainstream thanks to serial killers becoming a profitable true crime industry as well as a staple of thrillers in print and on screen.Overall, it was a solid piece of work that I would have rated as a strong 3 stars, but then I read the afterword by Megan Abbott which made me think even more highly of it.
Read this on the way to LA recently, because that's where the book is set. This is first-class noir. What truly sets it apart is the prose style: so elegant and sculpted. The author's first book was a book of poetry in the Yale Young Poets series, and I can say I wasn't surprised at all. I delighted in these sentences. Hughes really ought to be better known, as she more than holds her own against Chandler and Hammett.
General suspicion of Dix Steele aside this novel couldn't really get much further from the movie, something I was expecting but preparedness doesn't always temper disappointment.A note on the movie first: It's a unique piece of noir cinema in my opinion, not least because of the fascinating and complex performance from Humphrey Bogart as a possibly innocent man suspected of murder by all those people closest to him (a theme that was revisited to brilliant effect by the Danish film maker Thomas Vinterberg in the new film The Hunt,) but largely thanks to the direction of Nicholas Ray as he changes the perspective from that of Dix to that of his accusers part way through.
He's young and handsome, a real lady-killer, possibly in every sense of the word.
There's this one woman in particular who reminds him of a girl he used to know back in England...he'd definitely like to get to know her better.This is an unusual story in that the killer has gone out of his way to rekindle an old friendship with a war buddy who is now a cop.
Flirting with possible discovery quickly becomes a thrill for Steele, and he insinuates himself more and more into his friend's life.
It's probably the least violent book about a serial killer that I've ever read.
Second, re the film: book and movie are really two very different entities, so I can understand how, if someone sees the film first and then reads the book, disappointment might set in.
The same is true vice versa -- I read the novel first and expected something much different than I got from the movie.
Bottom line: you won't be sorry either way -- both book and movie are excellent; both worth the time you put into them.
Third: I've posted about this book at my  reading journal  so feel free to take a look there.
The main thing that bothers me about it is a widespread lack of recognition that serial killers are nearly always committing what are essentially hate crimes against women, and that both the murders and our obsession with their lurid details reflect and amplify our society's wider and arguably more subtle misogyny.
Aw, but it was still plenty awesome, though.If you like this sort of thing -- postwar urban anomie, claustrophobic narration that makes you wake up in the middle of the night with a sour sense of dread that the world is a horrid fucked up scary place -- you had really better check this one out.
Above-average noir fiction with a surprise twist. (Not the same twist as the Bogart movie!)
He could have been watching his reflection in the windows, thinking "What are people thinking about this handsome man?" He feels good looking, though not worth a special glance, when he wants to hide among other men.
He was hungry for blood and he wanted to sleep like an innocent baby when he was done.It is telling when Dix pines for the good old days of war.
He had position over men who he saw as above him in the other world he never wanted to return to.
When it is found out that he murdered the girl who didn't want him back in London circa army days?
Not the real woman, the Dix prize.
In an introduction to a collection of his mystery stories,Isaac Asimov dismisses the sort of mystery novel in which we know who the killer is all along as a sort of wallowing in pathological psychology.
He himself wrote mysteries in what he, somewhat self-servingly, called the traditional mode - puzzle stories that were far removed from the actual scene of any crime and had various conundrums presented and solved during the course of polite dinner-table chat.
Hughes was a brilliant writer, able to fully inhabit her characters' mental world and to tell a taut, engaging story with a great balance of interior and exterior detail.
This is not a whodunit. We know rather quickly who is strangling women in Post-WWII Los Angeles. And we get the why of it soon, too. What intrigues, instead, is how the crimes will be solved, and who will do the solving.The events are revealed through the third-person eyes of the killer. But I didn't find him very interesting, his psychopathology too obvious. Instead, I liked the subtle ways four other characters are defined, and how little bits of dialogue may or may not indicate that they are on to him. We know, but do they?
The author gets some credit for spotting this potential weakness and making Dix an adrenaline junkie, pushing the limits and taking chances, probably missing the danger and the rush of his flying career in the war.The prose and the dialogue may lack the colourful similes, the snappy dialogue or the fisticuffs of other noir novels from the period, but it has instead a powerful atmospheric mix of night lights, mist, empty beaches, plus a few well turned riffs on the theme of loneliness and the inevitability of the path taken: “The criminal doesn’t escape.” Dix smiled wryly.Brub said, “I won’t say that.
But I don’t think there’s any escape.” As I said, I found the ending predictable, but there is a certain poetic justice in having Dix brought down (view spoiler)[ by two of his intended victims.
There are many unanswered questions that come with murders in real life and only the murderer knows all and we can just surmise.Years ago I found many books listed under femme fatale and if interested you can look at the shelf listed above to see the other books listed there.
I will be reading her in the future for sure.The story in brief- Dix comes out to California to write and finds a military friend who is a cop looking into serial killings that are unsolvable.
Hughes blends psychological suspense with conventional Hard-boiled and Noir styles to give us In a Lonely Place.Dorothy B.
Hughes is known for her crime novels, 14 books primarily in the Hard-Boiled and Noir genre and In a Lonely Place would be her most recognisable.
This might be because they all share the same influences Kafka, but more importantly Fyodor Dostoyevsky.In a Lonely Place starts off like a typical noir novel and immediately the reader suspects there is something not quite right with Dix Steele.
Χιουζ το έβρισκα συνεχώς μπροστά μου, στις διάφορες λίστες με τα καλύτερα νουάρ όλων των εποχών και ήταν ένα από τα κάμποσα κλασικά και πολυσυζητημένα βιβλία του είδους που κανείς Έλληνας εκδότης δεν είχε μπει στον κόπο να το φέρει στην χώρα μας.
Είναι ένα βιβλίο που προσφέρει μια άλλη οπτική στο είδος, αυτή ενός ιδιαίτερου και ίσως ψυχολογικά ασταθή πρωταγωνιστή, ενώ αν προσέξει κανείς θα παρατηρήσει και διάφορες κοινωνιολογικές προεκτάσεις γύρω από τον μισογυνισμό της Αμερικάνικης μεταπολεμικής κοινωνίας.
Σίγουρα, υπάρχουν και φόνοι, υπάρχει και μια κάποια αγωνία για την κατάληξη της όλης ιστορίας, αλλά, όπως προείπα, έχουμε να κάνουμε περισσότερο με ένα δραματικό νουάρ με κοινωνιολογικές προεκτάσεις, παρά με αστυνομικό μυθιστόρημα.
"One of the best portraits of a psychopathic killer in American crime fiction" (Marcia Muller) The crime writer Marcia Muller, wife of Bill Pronzini, is absolutely right. This is a classic noir book, a disturbing and gripping novel, told entirely from the killer's viewpoint.
If Mickey Spillane had named one of his heroes "Dix Steele," it would leave me shaking my head and rolling my eyes, but when Dorothy B.
Hughes gives the name to a serial rapist and killer, I nod and smile.
Dix Steele is so scary because he seems so ordinary--which is, of course, why sociopaths are so dangerous: Inwardly they have no conscience, while outwardly they seem the same as you or I.
As a result, it features an embarassing afterword that tries to turn this dark story of a serial rapist-murderer into some kind of feminist statement.
Read the novel, which is truly chilling, and stop before you accidentally read the afterword.
Amazing crime noir novel ....A serial killer is killing young women.
One of the detectives investigating is stymied.
The detective's wife is beautiful and bold.
So is another woman, determined to live her life the way she wants, sleep with whom she wants and well, this is so not the way I usually think of 1947.(I should know better.
My mother was a young woman in 1947 and she lived the way she wanted, too.
Bright, bold, opinionated and 'nobody's fool' type women run in my blood, and so...)The story was great, twisted and curvy, with insight into the forensics of the time - which was actually pretty good - I read this in two days.
His best friend Brub is on the force of the LAPD, and as the two meet in country clubs and beach bars, they discuss the latest case: a strangler is preying on young women in the dark.
Dix loves the dark and women in equal measure, so he knows enough to watch his step, though when he meets the luscious Laurel Gray, something begins to crack.
Having fallen for wannabe actress Laurel Gray, his eventual downfall is brought about in part by the sharp perceptiveness of Brub’s wife Sylvia Nicholai.This was an interesting and enjoyable book, with an insightful portrayal of a serial killer by Hughes.
This should have been a story or a novella. The plot isn't built on suspense, and it becomes tiresome being long. It's spectacularly cool that a woman was writing books in the "noir vein" in the 1940s. How did I not know about her until this year? From a killer's perspective, this seems to be looking toward the future...it precedes Ripley by several years, preceding American Psycho by some 40 years. There's maybe a murderous main character I don't know about or am forgetting? The best thing is, she wrote a lot of books!
Charming and flawed in the way those crime films from the 40s are. Sure it seems a little clicheed, the plot twists are well signposted, but gosh does it have atmosphere in spades. Dix Steele (my most absolutely funny character name of 2017, nascent porn actors would reject the name as too much) is a troubled young man with a silly name adrift in LA, the plot unfolds majestically. Much to savour.
it's nice to read a pulp crime novel that is very much its own thing, no visible influence from chandler or hammett or cain or any of the usual suspects (though i do get a faulkner vibe).
hughes writes slowly and twistingly, with lots of unknowns and atmosphere; it's a very lonely book, not so much exciting as tense and doomed and sad.
She played bridge with girl friends and she once taught a Sunday-school class.
She didn't have any particular gentleman friend, she went out with several.
The only exciting thing that had ever happened to her was to be raped and murdered.
This is the first detective genre story I've read in a very long time.
I read way to many of them throughout my life, and now find them tedious and stale.
This writer is very different.
She puts the reader into the head of a serial killer in a truly terrifying way, before the term was invented.
He is deeply misogynist, but he is a deranged killer, so his opinions about women are also deranged.
Everything the reader sees and hears is from his point of view.
The threads are never dropped, the point of view always consistent.
Brilliant writing.
This little novel had me on the edge of my seat, while trying to crawl out of Dix Steele's head at the same time.
It was well written and hard to put down, even though Dix was a creepy bastard.
I hated the word "slattern".
I was kept on the edge of my seat right up to the finish.
I do have a few little issues, but then this was all told from the standpoint of Dix, so any...confusion I may have, is really his, he is that self centered.
I learned a new word : Megrim.
Dix Steele is an ex-Army fighter jock living in Los Angeles and surviving nicely on a monthly check from his uncle.
He's living in the apartment, wearing the clothes and driving the car of Mel Torries who has supposedly sublet everything to him and taken off for Rio. One evening he accidentally bumps into his best friend from the war, another fighter pilot, married to Sylvia, who is now a detective with the police force.
Women, whose penetrating gazes are far mightier than his sword."  Given this female perspicacity, I was puzzled by some of their actions that brought them into dangerous proximity to Steele.
Dorothy Hughes offers a different perspective in her noir novel In a Lonely Place.
In this way, Hughes creates not only an impressive crime novel, but the character study of a killer’s downward spiral.
As events unravel, Hughes has a compelling way of almost taking an unreliable narrative approach to the point of view, particularly toward the end.
Over all, though, In a Lonely Place was an impressive noir, a character study of the criminal mind and a suspenseful read that builds to a final, skillful conclusion.There's also a brilliant and insightful afterward by Lisa Maria Hogeland that analyzes the novel and its characters in depth.
Book 22: Mid-20th Century American Crime ReadathonIn post-WW2 America, there are many soldiers 'in a lonely place':Hook=3 stars: It's a foggy night and a man out for a walk "sees a girl and he didn't follow her at once." Creepy?
An afterword by Megan Abbot tells us that here in this novel, "...the warm homosocial world of the war is gone forever...in its place is only isolation and paranoia.
I've lived in Southern California, and it's the best place in the world to go unnoticed: everyone is looking at screens or looking for their chance at stardom.
It is different from the noir I have read before because it isn't told from the point of view of the detective.
This is told in third person limited from point of view of the killer - a serial killer.
I think it likely I would have found it disturbing had I read it when I lived fewer than 50 miles from that locale and a young woman.When I think of noir, I think Raymond Chandler.
The prose in this is nothing like that - not clipped or frequented with short declarative sentences.
****.This is an early treatment of a serial killer theme by Ms. Hughes, though not written as a suspense novel.
The majority of the novel deals with the psychology of the killer rather than his subsequent victims.
While in the city, Dix looks up one of his old army buddies, Nicolai Brub, now working as a detective for one of the local police forces.
Most of the novel, however, deals with the inner workings of the killer’s mind.
It is a clever ploy of Ms. Hughes that even we think we know the killer, we can not be sure until further in the book.
A paint-by-numbers kit where all the numbers are zero.*If you're wondering what kind of asshole gives less than five stars to a book whose protagonist is named Dix Steele, I'm afraid I don't have an excuse.
Best Names in LiteratureUriah HeepDix SteeleAnita LoosCherry ValancePhineas FoggGraceless, Aimless, Feckless, and PointlessBartlebyAnd this 1947 book might be awfully influential.
But two books came after it and did what it does much better: Jim Thompson's 1952 pitch noir The Killer Inside Me and Patricia Highsmith's brilliant 1955 Talented Mr. Ripley.But it's all so inert.
It does all the things noir does - purple prose, luridness, cynicism - but it's just checking boxes.
