https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/714569.A_Countess_Below_Stairs
When her father, Count Grazinsky, dies in World War I and her wealthy family is threatened in the Russian Revolution, Anna, now age eighteen, her mother, and her younger brother escape from Russia and take refuge in England.
She convinces the butler and head housekeeper at Westerholme to give her a chance on a temporary basis.When Rupert, the Earl of Westerholme since the death of his older brother, returns home from World War I, he is attracted by Anna’s charm and personality ― but he’s also about to be married to an extremely wealthy young lady, Miss Muriel Hardwicke.
I frequently recommend her books to my enthusiastic readers and to parents reading aloud with their elementary-aged children.
Just blobs of meat." And in fact, that's what the author has made them to be, for these are the only descriptions of their characters that we get.
Their fatness isn't just a trait: it's a moral failing, a character flaw, and symbolic of their general nastiness and lack of worth compared to other children in the book.
I mean, my goodness, how many fat readers of all ages do you know?
However...HOLY COMMAS, BATMAN!The woman does not know how to write a normal sentence unless it's dialogue.
She'd have these sentences with about 10 (no joke, I counted one) modifying phrases all contained within commas.
So I'd have to read the beginning of the sentence, skip the crud in commas, then read the end.
And the most annoying thing was that most of the time, the stuff wasn't even relevant!
And a few times it didn't even make sense.If you feel you can ignore all that the whole way through the book, please be my guest and read a cute story.
That is by chance I stumbled on A Countess Below Stairs by Eva Ibbotson.
Ibbotson writes magic in her pages.
There was true magic in each page and characters.
Young Countess Anna has lost alot in her young life, from her beloved father, her home, but she hasn't lost her faith in her family and love.
Anna is the tree that may bend but doesn't break as she take a job working as a maid in a old home.
Now there is some misunderstandings, and unneeded (IMO) tension but this time it didn't bother me one bit.
As Rupert tries to resolve his ever-increasing gloom over his pending marriage with perfect Muriel, he finds out more about Anna.The cast of characters includes Rupert's doting mother who tries/likes to commune with spirits, the loyal and long-suffering Butler who will do anything to preserve the estate, his foul-tempered, pottery throwing mother, the Kosher Jewish family that still can't understand why these snooty British nobles have embraced them so whole-heartedly, Baskerville the mastiff, sweet young and lame Ollie-daughter of Rupert's closest friend, a bottom-pinching old Uncle, Muriel's snooty and desperate bridesmaids, Sergei their handsome chauffeur, and more.When she meets Proom the butler,Proom sighed and glanced at Mrs Bassenthwaite, who lightly shook her head.
Anna has a very resilient spirit, and instead of moping around and wishing for her old life, she is grateful for the safety of her family and secretly takes a job as a maid so that her little brother can still attend school.
None of the servants or neighbors are fond of Muriel, and as the wedding date approaches, all of Rupert's friends and family are leery of the impending marriage.
Everyone can see that they are a perfect couple, but can Rupert and Anna come to terms with their feelings for each other before his marriage to Muriel?
I should thank Rane for recommending and giving this book such a nice review.
(Example of books like this are Lord of the Rings, The Fault in our stars and The Prince of Thorns which are AMAZING books.) But despite the difficulty, this book still rocked me.The first thing that caught my attention was the cover of the book.
One shouldn’t judge a book by its cover but old habits die hard.
Like Sergei or Petya.
And Petya is an interesting character.So if you want to read something light and refreshing, do READ this book.Two-thumbs up for Miss Eva Ibbotson for a wonderful book.
familiar romance tropes, but intelligently applied, and with a keen sense of time and place and detail from an angle less and less known, I suspect, to many younger 21st C.
The page-turning question in romance is not what will happen (we know that, or else the tale would have to be described by some other term), but how -- and the "how" made me grin.Granted, the central couple do not solve their own problems, but are rescued by others, and the discursive omniscient style is a little emotionally distancing.
By way of trade-off, the reader gets a wider angle of view.
I felt really disconeccted from the story and like it was to narrarative.
Like the author was telling the story herself, not through her charecters.
Like every time some one new came into the story, everything stopped while the author gave a biography on this person's life.I was warned that it would be a little boring in the begining but that it would get better.
But then, really close to the end, for litterally a split fraction of the book, things seemed to be getting better.
I know some people who really like this book and some who don't.
I found myself not really giving a shit what happened to Anna.
Except for the evil, sure-to-become-a-total Nazi fiancee of Anna's love interest.
I understand it is, at its heart, a romance novel, but how much interaction did she really have with Rupert before they totally fell in love?
I mean, besides the fact that she's totally flawless and anybody would be an idiot NOT to fall in love with her, right?
I'm not a totally cynical person, I like romance and happy endings, but this just felt too forced.
I read the blurb and I thought the story was interesting. This was one of the worst books I ever read. First of all, too many unnecessary details about minor characters. I found myself constantly skipping over those parts. The main countess had no character development and it was very narrative. The main character was too perfect, the fiancee was "nasty", the love interest was "prince charming". There was too much description that was not needed. Ending was predictable.
Eva Ibbotson wrote five books for adults (or young adults) that clearly fit together -- A Countess Below Stairs, The Reluctant Heiress, A Company of Swans, The Morning Gift, and A Song for Summer.
It's miraculous to feel it through them.I can see how some readers might find the 5 novels I mentioned repetitive after a point, but I love them all and would read another 105 if Ibbotson had written them.
Anna is wise enough to know that the answer to most anything can be found in a book, so she embarks upon her new housekeeping endeavor with The Domestic Servant’s Compendium, by Selena Strickland, tucked into her bag.
She references this massive, three volume tome often in regards to her duties as a maid, much to her below stairs companions' amusement and sometimes irritation.Now, I loved Anna immediately.
(hide spoiler)] It all turned out in the end, but I feel an opportunity was missed for him to act the hero.5 stars.
She tries to keep her past from her employers and their very attractive son, the Earl of Westerholme who is engaged to be married.
His future wife believes in the science of Eugenics and only in procreating "the perfect species." Needless to say, there is an attraction between Anna the Countess and the Earl but at a time when men did not break their commitments, and servants could not marry the upper class, it seems like a lost cause.
This book was intriguing, and described the scenes so well I believed I was in that mansion and era right along with the characters.
But since I am not going anywhere (exotic or otherwise) in the near future, getting lost in them has proved a wonderful balm for my It's mid-March and Still Snowing blues.Anna is a Russian countess whose family is forced to flee their wealth and their home after her father is killed in the Russian Revolution.
Not fooled for a second by her maid disguise, Rupert is struck by how much Anna seems to love his home and family, how different it all looks when seen through her eyes.
Eva Ibbotson has some of the most beautiful prose I've ever read.I feel like she is an amateur expert on everything.
She could write about garbage disposals and I wouldn't care in the least.
I don't think she could write an ugly sentence, I really don't.
On to the story: This is the most original of her adult books.
All the others have the same two main characters.
This is also the least offensive, which makes me a happy clam.
I'm constantly amazed that she can somehow write accents without changing any of the spelling.
That is a real talent.Reread:01/29/16The Honorable Olive though.
With Eva Ibbotson, you can expect one thing: A fluffy feel-good read.
I don't usually like fluffy reads, with Ibbotson I make an exception.The good guys are always perfect, golden-hued flawless people who are gorgeous.
Many of her YA stories usually involve a character running away or going to a new, strange place.The Secret Countess tells the story of a young Russian aristocrat who escapes Russia during the revolution.
It's predictable but nice.If you want to feel uplifted and happy, this is a nice bit of cultured fluff that rolls along beautifully.
A good cure when you're feeling a bit down and want a nice, happy read.
The only reason I gave this book a two instead of a one is because despite the horrible writing style, I still managed to want to read it through to the end.
The story, although very predictable, was cute and happily ending, as to be expected.
However, if grammar and sentence structure matter greatly to you, I would not recommend this book.
I found myself re-reading sentences over and over trying to decipher what was actually being said.
Eventually, I came to the conclusion that I could skip over them entirely without any loss to the story line what so ever.
It’s the little Russian maid with the “devastating curtsey” who he feels more in tune with, but even as learns about who she really is, his sense of honour means he could never jilt a woman.When I read that the premise was about a Russian countess having to work as a maid in an English manor house, and falling in love with the Earl, I had my doubts.
It’s more along the lines of Ever After or Just Ella – explaining a classic fairytale with how it could have happened in a world without obvious magic.Anna is an adorable character, and you could never wish her ill will, but she also strikes me as a little too good.
A few of the characters love to talk about her glowing aura, and Anna is set up as the kind of person you only meet once or twice in your life, the kind of girl so utterly nice that you can’t help but dislike her because you look so horrible in comparison.
Such a romantic, wonderfully written, romantic, funny, romantic, historic, romantic book!
Rich Anna Grazinky, a 16-year old countess who is VERY VERY rich.
The head of the house hold, the Earl Rupert, meets her, and they fall in love.
But they cannot be together because of the Earl's nasty, twisty fiance, who tries to fire, kill or destroy anyone she dosen't like.
When Anna's secret that she is a countess leaks out, she learns that she must flee the Earl's household.
This is trully a book worthy of reading.
I alone have read it at least 13 times!
This, ladies and gentlemen, is probably my favourite standalone novel of all time.
If not favourite, then definitely in my top five.
It's adorable and heartbreaking and beautiful and I've loved it ever since I first read it - and I've read it three times since.It's not without its faults - Anna is a special snowflake, Rupert is controlling at times, and Ibbotson does have a problem with sentences - each one has about nine hundred separate clauses and fifteen adjectives - but to be honest, they're too minor to even scrape away a half star.
Rupert made a promise to his brother to take care of Mersham, the family estate, if anything ever happened to him, and now feels honor-bound to keep that promise even though he's also inherited a mountain of debt along with the property.
Much like Anna he's a very kind and unpretentious person.
Rupert has very little close family left, but his mother and uncle live at Mersham with him, along with his adorable, snobbish dog who never goes below stairs.
I felt like I learned a little something about pre-revolution Russian culture, which was interesting.
Plot Once upon a time in Russia, there lived a little countess who, despite being spoiled by absolutely everybody, is perfect and good-hearted and fairly-flawless.
Fortune turns against this little princess and, with her now-widowed mother, little brother, and governess she flees to England almost penniless, where, being good-hearted and pure and perfect, she decides that instead of taking up her title and position in English society like she might, she will become...a maid.
The Earl happens to be young, attractive, good-hearted, nearly as perfect as our Little Countess, and engaged to a snot.The Snot, though, is beautiful and wealthy and believes herself to God's blessing to earth.
From the angelic Russian girl who pleased everyone, to the misunderstood-with-a-tragic-past earl, to the prim and properly horrendous fiance, to the sweet cook, and finally the vibrant, crippled young girl, this book excelled on stereotypical characters.
Ibbotson entralled me with her story and I had to love it, despite my obvious misgivings.Slowly, Anna put up a hand to his muzzle and began to scratch that spot behind the ear where large dogs keep their souls.Another great thing about this book was that it refused to let me put it down.
If you do pick up this book, and find yourself bored, at least read through the end.

aware that this is the most subjective ever rating but im sick and its cold and i love romance and fun and details and i probably know large chunks of this by heart at this stage
Anna, a Russian countess of considerable wealth before the Russian Revolution, must flee with her family to England in the aftermath of the war.
Meanwhile, Anna takes to her new role with pluck and grace, and quickly wins over Mersham's residents, both upstairs and down; and, perhaps, is winning Rupert's heart despite himself!I knew after the second chapter that I would thoroughly enjoy reading this book.
Even so, the pleasant writing style, gentle humor, and Anna's character won me over so that I completely enjoyed reading this book!
Yes, the same old stuff but what makes this one worth a read is the way in which this same old story is presented.
Even though the story is highly predictable you never once feel bored.
When I started reading this book it was mainly for the protagonist Countess Anna but further down the road I came to the realization that it is not Anna who is the prime focus but everyone around her.
How she makes them feel with her cheerfulness and natural goodness of her character is the theme which is the heart and soul of this book.
I would definitely suggest this book for a truly satisfying one time read.
Ok, since I am still having Downton Abbey withdrawals, this helped to give a me a quick fix and I have to say I found this a charming, enjoyable read.
This story is about a young woman, Anna Grazinsky, a Russian Countess reduced to genteel poverty who secretly undertakes the role of servant in a big house.
While working there Anna wins the hearts of her fellow servants and catches the eye of The Earl of Westerholme who is engaged to be married to the ultra snobbish and ultra wealthy Muriel Hardwicke.
Very enjoyable.
