https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28954137-tales-from-the-shadowhunter-academy
Welcome to Shadowhunter Academy: 4 stars. The Lost Herondale: 3 stars. The Whitechapel Fiend: 5 stars. Nothing but Shadows: 5 stars. The Evil We Love: 3 stars. Pale Kings and Princes: 5 stars. Bitter of Tongue: 4 stars. The Fiery Trial: 4 stars. Born to Endless Night: 5 stars. Angels Twice Descending: 5 stars.
I'm so happy I decided to reread these! While I of course loved these novellas the first time around, I felt I was able to connect to them better the second time. When I originally read them, I quickly forgot the individual stories but it feels so good to have the fresh in my mind.I would highly recommend the audiobooks for TFTSA. They're all narrated by a different voice actor and it really added to my reading experience. I had the best time rereading these and definitely feel ready for Lord of Shadows this May!
I AM IN A PUDDLE OF TEARS BUT THIS BOOK IS EVERYTHING! I LOVE THIS WORLD SO MUCH!!! *weeps*BOOKTALK HERE: https://youtu.be/kx0YBT40HrA
I mean, a few of the stories in here are the best I’ve read from this universe ( Bitter of Tongue & Born to Endless Night) but most just felt boring to me, if I’m being honest.
I feel like a lot of people couldn’t empathize with everything that Simon was struggling with, and it just made me sad every single time.
Oh, and Simon and Izzy finally make up, but it for sure didn’t mean as much to me, because the last story was so damn painful to read!
1. Welcome to Shadowhunter Academy: 2 stars 2. The Lost Herondale: 2.5 stars 3. The Whitechapel Fiend: 2.5 stars 4. Nothing But Shadows: 4 stars 5. The Evil We Love: 3.5 stars 6. Pale Kings and Princes: 3 stars 7. Bitter of Tongue: 3.5 stars 8. The Fiery Trial: 4 stars 9. Born to Endless Night: 4 stars 10. Angels Twice Descending: 4 stars
Great!
No solo descubrimos más datos sobre la época del Círculo, o historias que no conocíamos del Instituto de Londres, sino que vamos conociendo aún más a Simon y su día a día en la Academia -la cual, por cierto, me ha encantado cómo estaba ambientada, así como todos los personajes que la habitan, desde Catarina a George, Jon, Marisol...Realmente los relatos son todos interesantes, algunos más que otros, pero todos me han gustado.
En fin, hay historias de todo tipo que nos ayudan a ver con perspectiva a los diferentes personajes y criaturas del mundo de Cassandra Clare.De hecho, hay relatos esenciales para entender ciertas actitudes.
Now, I read Lady Midnight before this, not know it would spoil me a bit, but I still loved reading and learning about some of the backstory to the things I read about in LM!
I really really loved reading about these past events and getting a look at a different perspective.
And I even loved the new characters we were introduced to just as much!
Marisol was easily one of my favorites along with George (which is probably a given with a lot of others.) I loved the humor and the sarcasm and everything about this book and this bindup and these stories.
Hey guuuuys! Look, the actual cover is out now!(I mean I doubt I'll read this bc I'm not a big fan of novellas or bind-ups in general, but y'know, one day.)Since I was bored and detest calculus homework, I decided to put all the covers of the novellas together.So, uh, here:and because I have no doubt that's tiny as hell: hopefully, this'll be a higher def.
Loved reading this! Wish I read it before Lady Midnight but I still really enjoyed it!
I really enjoyed these stories!! I gave all of the stories 3.5 or 4 stars, but overall I would give it a 4 stars! I am so excited to finally get to Lady Midnight next month AHHHHH!
Until the Lightwood who was unforgettable; until the Lightwood who had not only touched but taken his heart"."Pero no había existido un Lightwood que tocara su corazón, como lo habían hecho varios Shadowhunters...
Hasta el Lightwood que era inolvidable; hasta el Lightwood que no sólo había tocado su corazón, sino que se lo había robado".Como les dije desde que leí el primer relato, no le tenía mucha fe a Tales From the Shadowhunter Academy porque se basaba en Simon, uno de mis personajes menos favoritos de Cassandra.
5/5 stars  Tales from the Shadowhunter Academy is a collection of ten novellas that follows Simon Lewis after the events of City of Heavenly Fire, the last book in the Mortal Instruments series.
Written by Cassandra Clare, Sarah Rees Brennan, Maureen Johnson, and Robin Wasserman, these moving and hilarious short stories are perfect for the fan who just can’t get enough of the Shadowhunters.
All in all Tales from the Shadowhunter Academy was an amazing collection of novellas.
Cassandra Clare, Sarah Rees Brennan, Maureen Johnson, and Robin Wasserman did a great job writing them and I will definitely be reading The Bane Chronicles now that I know I enjoy the short story bind ups.
5 Stars (view spoiler)[ and one broken heart (hide spoiler)]I enjoyed each and every story of Simon's journey through Shadow hunter Academy. Simon's character really developed throughout the story from an unsure mundane who second guessed all of his relationships and despised his past self to a confident and capable shadow hunter. (view spoiler)[ Gutted that Simon's parabati ritual with Clary wasn't shown. I came to love all the new characters (even Jon haha). I really love the bromance between
5 Stars (view spoiler)[ and one broken heart  (hide spoiler)]I enjoyed each and every story of Simon's journey through Shadow hunter Academy.
Simon's character really developed throughout the story from an unsure mundane who second guessed all of his relationships and despised his past self to a confident and capable shadow hunter.
(view spoiler)[ Gutted that Simon's parabati ritual with Clary wasn't shown.
I really love the bromance between Simon and George and am gutted George didn't make it through the ascension seriously C.
(hide spoiler)]Need more stories about Clary, Jace, Simon, Izzy and Malec stories!
I...I'm...oh my Gods.
The end of the last story just I'm almost in tears ahhh!
This was such a good bind up I'm so happy I finally read these short stories!
Simon has always been one of my favourite characters and just reading about him at the academy made me so happy, I'm so content my heart is full, Sizzy has sailed again...ugh!
I can't think of a single story in this that I didn't like, I loved the back story and all of the character development so much (Malec oh my Gods).
THIS WAS FANTASTIC!!! I LOVED IT SO MUCH!! This is saying a lot because TMI took me over two years to finish. Simon has always been my favorite character and I loved having him as the main focus. I also loved reading about The Last Hour characters and seeing a glimpse of what's to come in The Dark Artifices. Also, the ending hurt me so much??? Like how could u do that to meeee???
Buddy read with Cait!I'm not going to go into details with each novella because there's a gazillion of them and I've already some forgotten details here and there.Rating for each novella:1) Welcome to the Shadowhunter Academy: 3 stars2) The Lost Herondale: 3.5 stars3) The Whitechapel Fiend: 4 stars4) Nothing but Shadows: 5 stars5) The Evil We Love: 3.5 stars6) Pale Kings and Princes: 4.5 stars7) Bitter of Tongue: 5 stars8) The Fiery Trial: 2.5 stars9) Born to Endless Night: 4 stars10) Angels Twice Descending: 3 stars
I just feel like he's a useless character and I would 10/10 sacrifice him (sorry Amber).Welcome to the Shadowhunter Academy - 2.5 stars"We all want to be heroes, but you know you can be one.
The Whitechapel Fiend - 4 stars"I am Tessa Gray and I believe in the importance of stories."Tessa comes into the Shadowhunter Academy to share some stories and she tells the story of how she actually knows the true identity of Jack the Ripper since they had to deal with those issues back in the day.
Basically he still thinks the Shadowhunters are going to come and save him - but they're definitely not.
Here are some of my thoughts:• I adore the one about James Herondale and Matthew Fairchild. It is so sweet and funny – ahhhh. • Fuck you, Robert Lightwood, always, but I can finally understand his perspective a bit more – while still being disgusted by his guts, but also, still appreciating that he’s trying to change for his children. • Helen’s story breaks my heart (and the real fae story is shocking but somewhat eye-opening). • Jem is always a light in the dark. Seeing how he has been there fo
I’m glad that he gets to send that sweet message via Simon to Helen on her wedding though.•	The Malec chapter – it is so cute with the baby.
I hate it because damn I really want to hear what’s going on with Simon the most.I think I have forgotten my earnest love for TMI books.
(hide spoiler)]Love triangle?
(view spoiler)[Sizzy scenes always <3 Like their first REAL date that we saw.
When Isabelle and Simon talked about loving each other no matter what (no matter if he chose to be mundane or not).
it shows there are more sides to a person you may think.i'm also surprised by how strongly i appreciated the themes.
i fohnd that really surprising because most novella collections are just compilations of "fan-fiction-esque" writings and lack depth.
all these stories had a moral and made me love the shadowhunter world even more than i already do.
another thing i loved about this collection was that it didn't feeeeeeel long (which, it is quite long) or disconnected.
i usually have a hard time getting into novellas because they're so short and don't connect together into one cohesive story, but TALES FROM THE SHADOWHUNTER ACADEMY was not the case.
5/5 starsTechnically read this since I read all the individual novellas.Honestly, not the biggest novella person BUT this is soooo worth the read!
I think the decision to have other authors write these characters is what hurt the stories the most for me.
The writing in the first one was so stilted that none of the characters even felt human (ok, most weren't but you know what I mean).
I liked seeing some potential backstory for Valentine -- he was one of the better parts of TMI.
I think anyone who's a huge fan of Cassandra Clare's books will enjoy seeing more of the characters they love.
I wasn't a particularly huge fan of TMI so take that into consideration with my rating.
We really see him struggling with his memories and trying to please the people who know him so well.It’s thanks to this that his character development is so on point that in the end I ended up loving this Simon, with all his insecurities, in a completely new role, with new people and new relationships.At the same time he still sees his old friends and all these dynamics between all of them are a big yes.
I may say that I didn't like at all the new secondary characters (and I felt pity just for a certain one (view spoiler)[George Lovelace (hide spoiler)] who dies for basically no reason but whatever, only two pages were spent on his death) and I was only happy to read about Simon regaining his memories back after two years but the rest...
I didn't like the writing.
Please, don't co-write your own characters with other authors.
Don't write tons of novellas repeating always the same, damn stuff.
Angels Twice Descending: 3.5/5 starsPrecisely, 2.6/5 stars.--------first review, 2015:1.
Angels Twice Descending: 5/5 starsIn total, 4/5 stars.
I had so many mixed thoughts coming into this, because there were some elements I knew I'd like (DARK ARTIFICES CHARACTERS APPEARING, MAGNUS & ALEC!) but also some elements I really knew I wouldn't two massive unpopular opinions I have1: sizzy is a shit couple2: simon isn't that interesting of a character.
2) The Lost Herondale: 3 starsThis was interesting but since I've read lm/los and know what happens it was kind of underwhelming.
unsatisfying?4) Nothing but Shadows: 4 starsJamie was so interesting and this story got me so excited for The Last Hours.
I also haven't read a Shadowhunter book in over a year, so getting back into it took a little bit.*The Lost Herondale: 4/5 stars.
MY PRECIOUS MARK OH MY GOD I CANNOT I WISH I READ THIS BEFORE LADY MIDNIGHT BECAUSE *sobs* I love mark he's so pure...*The Fiery Trial: 5/5 STARS!!
I saw this one coming but I wanted to cry when they were swimming toward each other like OMG MY BABIES *Born To Endless Night: 5/5 STARSSSS Holy sweet God this was another one that made me just smile like an idiot.
I listened to the audio books of these stories six months ago, and I absolutely loved them.
I was able to sympathize with his memory and identity crisis, which inevitably caused a strain in his relationships, whether they be friendly, familial, or romantic.
The characters of The Infernal Devices were also given their own stories, and I especially loved learning more about their descendants, who were very diverse and well-developed.
The familiar Shadowhunter world was expanded as a new generation of Nephilim was introduced.
I've been a fan of the Shadowhunter world since 2010, and I'm excited to read about Emma Carstairs and Julian Blackthorn.
I didn't know that there would be tid characters in these and not only present day but flashbacks to London in the 1800s (tbh I cried a lot during those scenesYou even get to meet James Herondale who I now inexplicably love.And stories about the Circle.
There's so much character growth not only for Simon but for those characters who's stories are told & references the Bane Chronicles.There's so much that I wanted from Cohf that I finally got in here and there's set up for Lady Midnight so I HIGHLY recommend you read these before that releases.
Cute.I read this a while ago, so I don't really remember. I really enjoyed the ones with TID characters. And the one with the Warlock baby.
4.5 stars
