https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/515128.Death_in_Cyprus
Those who love the scope and beauty of Kaye's grander, heftier works will find much to love in this old-fashioned mystery and romance set in an exotic locale.
Kaye made sure the sun would never truly set on exotic places such as Port Said, Fayid, Limassol, Nicosia and Kyrenia with Death in Cyprus.Sunlit garden verandas, dinner tables overlooking a crystal sea of jade and emerald, and the breeze from silver-gray olive trees are described in such a manner you can almost see the former, and taste the latter like a fresh purple grape from the vineyards of Nicosia.
The setting is ripe for romance and danger, and Kaye brings them together in Death in Cyprus, one of her finest mysteries.
Amanda nearly drinks a nice cold drink left in the cabin before realizing it had to have been left for Julia.
I guessed the murderer in the other two Kaye mystery novels I read before this one, but Death in Cyprus fooled me completely.
I did want Amanda to be a little less helpless and a little more clued in, but I liked the main characters, in spite of their shortcomings.A fun murder mystery, in a distinctly old-fashioned kind of way.
In this book, the author refrains from using the “God’s Eye View” so there is information that we are not privy to, and only three major characters and some minor ones have this information – and each person has their own reasons for not disclosing it to each other or discussing it.This leads to a merry mental chase in an attempt to figure out who is murdering people and why.
M.M. Kaye drew on her own stay in Cyprus - including using the house she stayed in as the novel's central location - to paint a portrait of a certain place during a certain time, and the actual experience with the locale and the home made this a memorably immersive experience.
END SPOILERI'm sad to say that the last couple pages were a real turnoff and left an unpleasantly sour taste, enough of one for me to dock a star.
In Kaye's defense, she does include a couple lines to show that her heroine is equally repulsed.
***2017 Summer Lovin’ Reading List*** I love these older murder mystery/romance mash-ups written by writers like M.M. Kaye and Mary Stewart. Dating from the 1950s, they were written in an era where book heroines were more innocent (and worried about their reputations) and the social classes were more firmly entrenched.I owned all the Kaye’s Death in … series at one point in my life and read them all multiple times. I wasn’t more than three pages into this one when I realized that I already knew
Kaye spent time in Cyprus as a British army wife, so no doubt was able to describe terrain that she was familiar with and obviously fond of.Reading this now, as an older person, I realize how excruciating the effects of class are and how much personal income has become the new way to distinguish between classes (rather than whom one is related to).
Interestingly, it was men marrying for financial advantage, rather than the usual women in this case, perhaps Kaye pointing out that it’s a two way street.This time around I also noticed how Persis, the American writer, is so very stereotypically American—she is loud, brash, demanding, and not the slightest bit retiring.
Rating Clarification: 3.5 starsM.M. Kaye's 6 book "Death in..." murder mystery series takes the reader to the island of Cyrus, circa late 1940's/early 1950's.
But she can't even set foot on the fabled island before death comes calling and reaps one of the passangers on board the S.S. Orantares, the ship Amanda booked passage from Egypt to Cyprus.
Once on the island, Amanda quickly comes to discover that the beautiful island is full of deadly secrets, and a murderer who will stop at nothing to eliminate Amanda by any means necessary.Once again, Kaye's evocative writing places the reader front and center in the middle of an exotic locale during a time period long gone.
In fact I have to force myself not to peek at the last chapter.This book is set in Cyprus and it made a nice follow up after finishing the Moonspinners by Mary Stewart.
The descriptions of Cyprus are real but not the focus of the book.
Its a mystery and the author doesn't let us forget it or allow us to get sidetracked.There are some similarities in each of these "death in..." books, (mainly in the female lead and a group of fellow Brits with one or two Americans or Canadians thrown in) however, the storylines themselves are very different.
I've read two M.M. Kaye books now, and it amuses me to see that her lead male characters are very alpha male, always telling the girl what's good for her, bossy, with a tenderness for the heroine barely concealed by a businesslike exterior, always doing the rescuing, etc.
It's trope central, but I buy it hook, line and sinker in a good suspense novel like this!
Full review to follow!
M.M. Kaye is best known for her wonderful book "The Far Pavilions, but I urge readers to give her Death in...
mysteries are usually set when the British were still a strong presence in some of these places,Twenty-one-year-old Amanda Derington has decided that she has been under the thumb of her strict, oppressive uncle for long enough.
Later Amanda finds out that Glenn's wife Anita, has left him and is now living with an artist, claiming that her husband is cheating on her with several women.
Kaye writes so well, and the mood and settings she describes leave me breathless, and while the mystery-plot itself is decent, unfortunately her work suffers from extreme misogynistic tendencies that pretty much disintegrate all magic she weaves in other ways.
I really just wanted to walk up to the heroine (or to Kaye?), take a hold of her and shake her vigorously while admonishing her to get a hold of herself.
I mean, the characterization was ridiculous: beautiful, innocent, lovely young girl is so naive that she walks into traps that endanger her life, only to be saved by mysterious dark stranger.
One of the weakest heroines of this series (exacerbated rather by the breathy young girl voice used by the audiobook narrator). Spends a lot of time being scared, and doesn't have a clue what's going on.By contrast, there was a wonderful cynical romance novelist character called Persis, who I would have loved watching find a happy ending.
2.5 stars... Rounded down. Doesn't handle dialogue as well as Mary Stewart & do not feel I have visited Cypress.
28/01/17On the last few of rainy days I spent with the hubby in Barcelona, this was a good comfort addiction while the rain pouuuured outside and he was ill and I was tired and bored.
M. Kayes books now the beginning eith the girl unaccountably terrified, a recap of events and then subsequent murders peppered with a romance of one or both partners reluctant to admit their feelings until the absolute last second.
Somehow it should get tiring but she writes so engagingly and each book has a different lush description of scenery and characters have a nice distinction in humor and personality (even if the heroine is usually of the "extraordinarily pretty with guts" type).
Nice one 4/5
Entertaining story. It was a little obvious who the bad guy was (view spoiler)[although a bit of an authorial cheat that he wasn't present for the first murder (hide spoiler)] but his motivation was well hidden (withheld?). I liked the characters, though, and the setting. M. M. Kaye used to be a favorite author of mine, and it's fun to revisit the mysteries she wrote as she and her husband traveled the world.
This is a fun series, a sort of YA series before such a thing existed. I enjoy the historical travel, romance, mystery, etc., but now that I'm much older it's not quite as appealing to experience all that through the eyes of someone so young and pretty.
But when he takes Amanda on a trip so he can visit outlying posts of the Derington empire (branch offices in all sorts of outlandish places), she turns twenty-one and decides to kick over the traces and go her own way.
When Amanda winds up staying with Miss Moon instead of the Bartons and other deaths occur all around her, it begins to look like he is right.Once again, Kaye has used her own experiences to inform her novel.
mystery series, set in post-WWII Cyprus (when the author lived there; the house in which the author lived is featured in the story).
On the boat to Cyprus, Amanda travels with a group of people all headed to Cyprus for a change of scene.
She swaps rooms with a fellow traveler, who dies overnight.
She confides in a quiet, competent fellow traveler, Stephen.
Resembles a classic Agatha Christie cozy mystery: all suspects were traveling together on the ship, their past relationships and buried secrets must be uncovered in order to identify the killer, and all is revealed in a show-and-tell denouement.
Inspired by a line from a poem, Amanda Derington decides to visit Cyprus. But when a fellow passenger dies in her cabin on the voyage there, her pleasant journey turns into a nightmare. It soon becomes clear that it was no accident, but rather, murder. And Amanda can't help but be swept up in the middle of it. A delightful read. An Agatha Christie-like plot with great characterization and a splendid setting. Definitely recommended.
There were some funny lines, and a variety of characters, but I was so tired of Amanda's frightened stuttering. "I--I don't know. Wh--why?" There was far too much of that. And the preposterous episodes where her hair kept saving her from being killed -- oh, brother! I enjoyed the descriptions of Cyprus, though. It's a light, fun read, but the plot is a bit ridiculous.
A fun romp - which is a bizarre thing to say about a whodunnit, but this series are very light hearted whodunnits with a dash of very british stiff upper lip romance thrown in. Excellent way to spend a lazy Saturday.
Probably 2.5 stars. I had fun reading it, but it's a bit outdated and predictable. Still, fun travel literature.
This one is set in Cyprus where young Amanda is visiting as a tourist.
All books feature a winsome young female lead who is intelligent, perceptive, usually level-headed and fairly brave.
The down side to books written in the 50's is that there is what seems to us now an absurd amount of sobbing and the occasional fainting episode.
The author notes in a note written years later that the Cyprus of this book really no longer exists except in her novel.
I read these books over and over again as a teenager - each story has a new exotic location but each one is equally creepy, atmospheric and romantic. A thoroughly enjoyable read.
I think this one was my favorite of the three. I started to recognize the author's formula, but there is always plenty of surprises.
The last of Kaye's murder mysteries. I've been saving it for a rainy day, and yesterday fit the bill. Perfectly charming as all its fellows were, too. I'm sorry to have seen the final pages at last. Perhaps, in a few years, I'll simply cycle back through. Lovely.
I feel like I got to visit Cyprus, circa 1952, and it was fascinating.
Perhaps we were meant to feel the pleasing glow of superiority in figuring out more than the main character could, but I wanted to sit down with the poor little naive thing and have a talk about priorities and cunning.
And then I wanted to grab the necktie of the leading man, give it a good yank, and inform him you can't be wantonly mean to little fluffy people who don't get it.Still, I had a good time.
I liked many of the characters...almost in spite of myself, but still.
I originally read this series many years ago and have fond memories of it.
They were originally written in the 1950's.
She was an army wife and lived in many locales, some of which are the exotic backdrops for her mystery series.
This is why these stories tend to be categorized as YA, though not originally written as YA.DIC; this is one of the weakest entries in the series, and it is not helped by the truly annoying narration by Julia Farhat.
The protagonist is also naive to the point of stupidity.
Surprised at how many of her characters (including the main two) were wholly unlikable -- a complaint I also had about The Far Pavilions, thou some of those characters were actually worthy of contempt and none of the these deserved any feeling so strong.
This book doesn't deserve any feeling at all, nor does it illicit it.
Art is SUPPOSED to make you feel something!) is a little shame that I gave it back to the book vendors, because now someone else might equally harmlessly waste their time with it.
This is a nice, light-hearted cozy who-dunnit with a good dose of old-fashioned charme.Suprisingly, after reading some books by Mary Stewart, I really missed a first-person narrator; I think it would have been nice to have Amanda tell the story, but I am not 100% sure it would have worked.
Also Mary Stewart is way better at describing landscapes and creating a mood, in my opinion.
I guess I was looking for a bit more action.However, the ending is really great and unexpected.
Nothing earth-shattering, but when I am in the mood for a who-dunnit, I will certainly turn to this series again.
