https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79667.Justin_Morgan_Had_a_Horse
Although I do indeed very much appreciate Marguerite Henry's Justin Morgan had a Horse as a story in and of itself (the sweet and loving connection between Joel and Little Bub which not only endures but grows stronger and stronger over the years, and that it is young Joel who first notices there is something extraordinary and truly special about Justin Morgan's little horse), and believe that the main message presented is necessary and of both historical and contemporary significance and value (namely that one should not judge a horse either by its perceived lack of a pedigree or by its stature, its physical appearance and size), I am actually also somewhat if not even majorly disappointed with this novel (even though Justin Morgan Had a Horse is considered a classic by many and won a Newbery Honour designation for the author).
The true account (with a fictional twist) of how the popular breed Morgan came to be in the late eighteenth century, you’ll find it inspiring and fun.It all begins in 1791 when likable school teacher Justin Morgan accepts Little Bub, a scrawny colt, as payment for a debt owed him.
Feeling he is stuck with the short end of the stick, Justin doesn’t see much potential for Little Bub. But he hands him over to Joel, an eager young student, as a project.
Turns out Little Bub isn’t so little; he’s a colt the world will not soon forget.
I just reread (?) the 1954 edition and it was *not* the book I remembered.
So, maybe when I was a child I was fortunate enough to read the original 1945 edition, the one that is about 1/2 the length the more available one?
Maybe I focused on what I saw as the strengths of the book, based on my enjoyment of other books by Henry & Dennis?
The back flap claims that 1947's *Misty* is Henry's first book for children, and still puts the (1946) silver sticker on the front cover of JMH!
With the high drama of horse, his boy and their nation coming of age, not to mention thrilling horseraces and backbreaking hard work complete with both heartache and happy endings, JUSTIN MORGAN did not disappoint!
JUSTIN MORGAN held the attention of both sons (and their mom and dad).
Regardless, JUSTIN MORGAN will make you proud(er) to be an American.
He labored hard all day, and then at sundown, when he should have been fed and bedded down for the night, he took part in races and pulling bees...Today his descendants, known as Morgan horses, are renowned throughout the world.
Another Newberry Honor book by Marguerite Henry.
But I'm quite taken by Henry's horse stories.
One of the things that impresses me about Henry is that all her stories are based on true stories and the amount research she does to write them is tremendous.
Exhilarating and suspenseful with lovable characters, this one turns out to be an endearing piece of historic Americana as President James Monroe makes an appearance in the finale of the book.
A true masterpiece of children's literature.I missed this one when I was growing up, but it never really fit into my reading interests as a youngster.
It all started because a farmer owed Justin some money.
To some people, that would be a wonderful thing to receive, but Justin didn't need a horse.
One might say, "Sell the horse"--but that's just the problem.
Since no one will buy poor Little Bub, Justin is indeed stuck with him.
See what can happen that turns this story upside-down when Justin Morgan's friend decides to help out.
I liked the book because while I was reading it, I knew that it actually happened.
This is a delightful horse story, great for boys & girls to read (ages 9 and up).
Highly recommend. Henry's books make wonderful read-alouds. Every time I read a book by Marguerite Henry it becomes a new favorite. I've never yet opened one I didn't love. Her stories are sweet, beautifully written, and carefully researched. You will learn something. They are engaging enough for adults and children alike. They carefully introduce vocabulary. They teach virtue.www.loveboxes.blogspot.com
A wonderful, touching horse story that I somehow missed reading in my preteen and early teen horse loving years. The relationship between Joel and Lil Bub was very special, and this book was all the more enjoyable because it is basically a true story about the horse that founded the Morgan horse breed.
We read this book as part of our American History studies this year. It takes place just after the Revolution and covers several more years on past the War of 1812. My kids really enjoyed it but then we haven't read a Marguerite Henry book that they didn't love.
My oldest just LOVED this title! :)
This is the original 1945 edition (89 pages). This version (not the expanded rewrite from 1954) was the Newbery honor book. The illustrations are well done, and they suit the book perfectly.
I liked but didn't love this story. I appreciated Joel's concern, love and dedication toward Little Bub. The story was interesting but didn't fully draw me in.
I loved the story of one young man's devotion to both Justin Morgan and his remarkable horse.
Little Bub, Justin Morgan's horse, knows how to make a statement.
That and great story telling makes all of her books fascinating reads.The narrative follows Joel Goss, initially a ten-year-old boy joining his teacher, Justin Morgan, on a peregrination to Massachusetts.
Joel and Little Bub begin their story.Morgan can't find anyone willing to buy such a small creature and had Joel gentle and train him.
However, money does and Joel has to keep saving.I love Henry's books for many reasons: the horses, the history, the friendliness of the people, and the bond between the main human character and the main equine character.
This theme is also shown as Joel, the boy who practically raised Bub, ends up building himself up as a world class horse expert even from his lowly beginnings.I think that for the intended age group of this book being a little younger, it’s well paced, and entertaining.
Overall I enjoyed this book for what it is, just don’t expect an intense medieval fantasy or something, because, while it’s good, just remember that this is still just a book about horses for a pretty young audience.
As a young girl, I desperately wanted a horse as so many girls do.
My parents bought be Marguerite Henry's Misty books instead.
As an adult, I'm no longer a horse person other than to appreciate their beauty, but I have a nine year-old daughter who's a lot like me.
While she read the Misty books on her own, I read this to her as part of our school curriculum.
I appreciated the historical aspects of it as well as the kindness and affection portrayed between the characters of Joel and Master Morgan and the affection between Joel and Little Bub, in addition to the positive character Joel showed in his persistence of caring for and pursuing Little Bub. It's a worthy book for education and pleasure.
It may be that all Marguerite Henry books don't deserve 5 stars.
I'm sure they're flawed.
But you won't hear about their flaws from me.
I met my first Morgan before I read this book, so she's not responsible for Morgans being one of my absolute most favorite horse breeds.
And real Morgans, like Bub, not the nervous fancy hybrids so popular today.This is an ageless timeless classic.
If you have a horse crazy kid- or any kid- or if you or anyone you know likes a great story with a real life protagonist who does ordinary heroic things- go read this book.
First I should say that I liked this more than Misty of Chincoteague.
I loved that this story was based on a real horse that was one of the first (if not THE first) truly American horse, who sired a new line of horses that continues today.
I looked up Morgan horses in my horse-crazy daughter’s books and there was the story I just read.
That always makes a story more exciting to me.
I also liked how the setting of 1780’s-1790’s America shows life in our budding nation.
The overarching theme of a boy and his love for a horse was touching.
I think if I read this on my own even as a kid, I'd probably be a bit bored, but my sons seemed intrigued by it and kept enjoying it as I read it to them out loud.
It was a good story regardless.
Joel is a kid and his schoolmaster is named Justin Morgan.
There is a little horse that Joel takes a real liking to that Justin Morgan gets ownership of and Joel wants to train it (or as they say, "gentle it").
The rest of the story is about Joel's relationship with the horse.
Until I read this book, I never knew that the Morgan horses were named after a real person. I'd never really thought about it, but I guess I had just always assumed it was a place or a town or something. So not only was this read interesting because it's about horses (which I love), but also very informative, because it teaches the history of a breed of horse from it's very beginning.Recommend for any horse lover.
What if the one thing you wanted in life was the one thing you couldn’t have? Should life therefore have no meaning? This book tracks the life of a little horse from the perspective of a child who grows up over the course of the book. This book shows that looks aren’t everything and that hard work matters. I like how this book shows the importance of paying ones debts. I like how the story includes an impossible obstacle and the main character’s determination to never give up.
Your kids will love this classic about a small horse that made a breed. Marguerite Henry has a way of weaving a tale about real horses. She tells of the hard times found in different periods of time. Grab this and all her books. You won't be disappointed.
Just finished the book and I was thoroughly disappointed. Though the book is descriptive and uses multiple artistic elements, it simply lacked action and relatable characters. The book can be completely summed up with merely the title.
This author writes some of the best stories for young people. And the art work is always excellent. You learn a lot while reading this, and it can be read over and over again. I have not read this since I was a child, but would read it again today without hesitation.
I read this wonderful book 50 years ago. Funny, I had forgotten everything except that it was wonderful! Reread it today in about an hour, it is a classic. Justin Morgan's horse was an American. Read it and love it.
Now I understand why Walt Disney crated a movie about this title! Completely engaging historical novel (based on real life owner Justin Morgan as well as Joel Goss. A book such as this entices me to do extra research about the characters' true live and times they lived in! Great story!
I visited the Morgan Horse Farm in Vermont when I was a child and this story is a treasured memory that I wanted to share with my children. A heart warming tale of an American horse that created a new breed of horses.
Audiobook was wonderful. Very interesting story.
3.5 stars. Listened to this. Had never read it. It's been a long time since I saw the movie, but think it's somewhat different than the book. Probably the book is closer to the truth.
I LOVED these books by Marguerite Henry as a pre-teen. Any girl who is horse-crazy will love them.
