https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/183822.Sandstorm
Sandstorm started out in London with a literal bang and ended with a storm of supposedly epic proportions in an ancient desert city.
More like 'Kingdom of the Crystal Skulls' than 'Raiders of the Lost Ark', if you want an Indiana Jones comparison (and Rollins apparently does, naming one character 'Omaha' and having another repeatedly calling him 'Indiana').The characters never really clicked for me, although the settings were pretty vivid.
The plot started unraveling for me when the big puzzle turned into a simple map to a city that wasn't lost, but sealed.
If you intentionally hide a city, why do you leave a map to it?
I am so glad that I did pick it up now, because it turned out to be a very rewarding read.Just a few of Danielle's Late Night Review Observations:1) James Rollins writes detail-oriented, science heavy action/adventure.
Although I thought that Lady Kara could have been more fleshed out, I think overall Rollins did a great job of rounding out this book with incredible women.3)Painter Crowe and Omaha Dunn surprise you, because they are a lot more emotional than I would expect tough guy action heroes to be.
It's basically an action movie in book form, but it's a good one, like Indiana Jones style.
It's the kind of humor I like in books, the wink to the audience that everything is kind tounge in cheek.But even with it being not in the same class of book as Hitchhiker's Guide or Lost In A Good Book, it's a lot of fun.
And that's one of the things I like about the Sigma Force novels, there's always a scientific reason behind everything, and it looks like James Rollins actually does a lot of research into these subjects.
Not nearly as good as I expected...,I read & loved Map of Bones, Rollins most recent release, so I picked up this book thinking it would be just as good.
Usually I read a book a week, because I usually find good reads based on reviews, research & sales.
It would also appear that Rollins pulled out a thesaurus the day he started writing this book, picked out five to ten words that are not often used in conversation, & regurgitated those five to ten words over and over again.
লনডন মিউজিয়ামে বিসফোরণ দিয়ে বইয়ের শুরু। এই বিসফোরণের মাধযমে অনেকগুলা ঘটনা ঘটার চেইন রি-অযাকশনের সূতরপাত। তারপর একের পর এক রহসয আর অনেকগুলো পরশনের উদভব। সেসব পরশনের উততর আর হারিয়ে যাওয়া শহর উবারের সনধানে ওমানে পাড়ি জমাল সিগমা ফোরস টিম, লেডী কারা কেনসিংটন, সুনদরী এবং বিদূষী ড. সাফিয়া আল-মায়াজ এবং নামকরা পরতনতাততবিক ওমাহা ডান। একের পর এক বাধা আর আকরমণের মুখে ওরা। বিপদের মাতরা আরও বাড়িয়ে দিল সিগমা ফোরস করমী পেইনটার করো’র পরাকতন সহকরমী। শতরু সব সময়ই এক ধাপ এগিয়ে থাকে ওদের চেয়ে।কী পছনদ করেন আপনি? অযাক
লন্ডন মিউজিয়ামে বিস্ফোরণ দিয়ে বইয়ের শুরু। এই বিস্ফোরণের মাধ্যমে অনেকগুলা ঘটনা ঘটার চেইন রি-অ্যাকশনের সূত্রপাত। তারপর একের পর এক রহস্য আর অনেকগুলো প্রশ্নের উদ্ভব। সেসব প্রশ্নের উত্তর আর হারিয়ে যাওয়া শহর উবারের সন্ধানে ওমানে পাড়ি জমাল সিগমা ফোর্স টিম, লেডী কারা কেনসিংটন, সুন্দরী এবং বিদূষী ড.
কী নেই সেই মুভিতে – গুটিবাজি ( :3 ), অ্যাকশন, অ্যাডভেঞ্চার – এগুলোর সাথে মিথ, ইতিহাসের অ্যালিউশন; এক ভরপুর প্যাকেজ!
ইন্ডিয়ানা জোনস, অ্যালান কোয়াটারমেইন, মাসুদ রানা, হাজার বছরের গোপন গোত্র – এসবের মিশেলে যে ফ্লেভার তার কোন তুলনা নাই। এস্পিওনাজ টেস্ট থেকে রহস্য-রোমাঞ্চ, অ্যাডভেঞ্চার - সব টেস্টই আছে বইটায়। আর মরুভূমির ভয়ঙ্কর সৌন্দর্যের বর্ণনা পড়ে ইচ্ছা হচ্ছিল বের হয়ে পড়ি!
Here's the thing about James Rollins - his books are utterly predictable and he is just unable to create any type of suspense or intrigue.
I've read multiple Rollins books and they are all pretty much the same.
They are the epitome of the books that you see on endcaps at your local pharmacy or grocery store and that's about the type of reading level they are as well.
I'm sure this will rub some the wrong way because his books sell millions and millions of copies (see Dan Brown), but I have to be honest.
The plot needed some editing – it reached the part I felt should’ve been the exciting climax and then kept going, building to the level of absurdity – and then the characters killed it.I liked Safia for all of about one page after she was introduced, after which my opinion of her started to wane.
In fact, if it wasn’t for the other characters beating me over the head with how strong and admirable Safia was, I would’ve pegged her as being kinda pathetic, seeing as how she kept having panic attacks and angsting over her not-so-terrible terrible past.
Simply put, I love this guy's work.
I wanted to read the Sigma Force books in order, so it took me a while until I could track down the first in the series - and I wasn't disappointed.With any literature of this type, you have to be able to muster up a certain suspension of belief.
Sigma Force, in itself, is a wild concept - scientist soldiers running around acquiring deadly tech for DARPA.
We're not even going to get into the near meta-physics that pop up in every book.
I think I'm on the 4th book now.
Painter Crow, hardened CIA operative takes a job at DARPA in the newly organized "Sigma Force." Their first mission takes them into the scalding Saudi desert in search of the unknown.
I Found Painter Crow "Hard around the edges" but in a way that I liked.
I've read the entire Sigma force series (well listened to the audio books for some) and this is another just plain fun read.And just when you think this is all too good to be believed, James Rollins comes out after the story and tells you what he invented and what really exists, along with references.
:)It's all there, has the right formulae for a good read & glad I finally got around to this series.Starts with a BANG, a mystery evolves, scientists & government agencies come to the fore as the lead protagonists, many with obvious sterotypical flaws which is all good fun, a nemesis comes into the fray....
you'll see, there's a few good scientific leaps which are kinda viable if not plausible, there's the Oh yeah thats clever alright moment which bridges the story nicely & it finishes with a .......!
Moments of tongue in cheek & recommend to all who've not come across this series before, will be adding Sigma 2 to my trl.
Good adventure story but I got lost in the science and wanted more operational intrigue. It's non-stop action though, and I plan to continue the series.
But with Sandstorm, I think I found it.In fact, Sandstorm and Raiders of the Lost Ark have quite a bit in common, from the "mirror image" bad guy, to the shady evil organization, to the archeological arms race, to the various artifact plot coupons, to the desert setting and the similar religious sites that the action flows through, to the dramatic and epic climax.
Sandstorm's similarity with the video game Uncharted 3 is even more clear, as they both focus on finding the lost city of Ubar.
خیلی سپاسگزارم آقای امینی! آشنایی با ناشران نویسندگان و مترجمان سعادت بزرگیست که دنیای تلگرام ایجاد کرده. و من بسیار سعادتمندم.
Anyway, I read an interview of James Rollins in a recent writing magazine ("The Writer") and was intrigued by the protagonists in a series he writes.
Rollins calls them "scientists with guns." Anyway, I downloaded "Sandstorm," the first book in the series onto my Kindle for $3.49 today and got totally sucked into the story.
Thoroughly enjoyed the book, even the underground city of glass part.
I've already downloaded the next three books in the series onto my Kindle.
I've been reading a lot of science and academic books recently, so this was an enjoyable break.
3.5 stars. A fun, action packed thriller that reminded me of Indiana Jones meets Tom Clancy with some excellent "fantastical" elements woven into the story as added flavor. I read this novel as it is the first of the SIGMA Force series and I thought the description of the group was interesting (think special forces made up of scientists). I look forward to reading more novels involving this group.
এক ঝড়ের রাতে জাদুঘরে রাখা পরাচীন একটি আরটিফযাকটের কাছে অদভূত আলো দেখা যায়। আর এর পর পরই ঘটে বিসফোরণ। পরীকষা করে পাওয়া যায় এযানটিমেটারের অসতিতব, যা কিনা বিপুল শকতির উৎস। শুরু হয়ে যায় এই কষমতা কবজা করার পরতিযোগিতা। খুঁজে পেতে হবে দু হাজার বছর আগে হারিয়ে যাওয়া এক শহর। যাকে এখনো পাহাড়া দিচছে রাণী ও রাজার বংশধররা। পরচুর টেকনোলজিকযাল বিষয় রয়েছে, রয়েছে পরচুর এযাকশন, কিঞচিৎ রোমানসও আছে আরো আছে অযৌকতিক হলেও গলপে সতযি টাইপের অনেক কিছু.....সব মিলিয়ে মজা পেলাম।
এক ঝড়ের রাতে জাদুঘরে রাখা প্রাচীন একটি আর্টিফ্যাক্টের কাছে অদ্ভূত আলো দেখা যায়। আর এর পর পরই ঘটে বিস্ফোরণ। পরীক্ষা করে পাওয়া যায় এ্যান্টিমেটারের অস্তিত্ব, যা কিনা বিপুল শক্তির উৎস। শুরু হয়ে যায় এই ক্ষমতা কবজা করার প্রতিযোগিতা। খুঁজে পেতে হবে দু হাজার বছর আগে হারিয়ে যাওয়া এক শহর। যাকে এখনো পাহাড়া দিচ্ছে রাণী ও রাজার বংশধররা। প্রচুর টেকনোলজিক্যাল বিষয় রয়েছে, রয়েছে প্রচুর এ্যাকশন, কিঞ্চিৎ রোমান্সও আছে আরো আছে অযৌক্তিক হলেও গল্পে সত্যি টাইপের অনেক কিছু.....সব মিলিয়ে মজা পেলাম।
3.5 stars.
It's 4 stars for action, adventure, and the historical/mythological fun.
3 stars for the writing.
"Once again, she was surprised by his astute intuitiveness" And how many wells are there?
Seriously, that's even worse than I thought!I believe these things were a bit more jarring because I was listening to the audio.
Nonetheless, I fully intend to read and most likely listen to the next.
The story itself was a hell of a lot of fun.
For action adventure with Arabian and biblical mythology, along with more than one kick ass fight scene, you really can't do much better.
It was fun.
I have no idea where this author gets his ideas but he certainly can take the reader on a wild ride. This is the first book in the Sigma Force series and the third in the series that I have read. I still like The Doomsday Key: A Sigma Force Novel best (probably because I read it first and the plot had a little bit more plausibility). I'm not familiar with antimatter, buckyballs, and a lot of the other stuff in this novel, but loved the setting.
3.75 spears outta 5!
The first book of the Sigma series.The best of series that I have so far. Kept me interested from start to finish!
মূল বই অযাভারেজ, অনুবাদ পুরাই মাখন! ফুয়াদ আল ফিদাহ ভাইকে ধনযবাদ এত সমুথ আর দুরদানত অনুবাদের জনয। পেইনটার করো চরিতরটার ভকত বনে গেলুম বাহে!
মূল বই অ্যাভারেজ, অনুবাদ পুরাই মাখন! ফুয়াদ আল ফিদাহ ভাইকে ধন্যবাদ এত স্মুথ আর দুর্দান্ত অনুবাদের জন্য। পেইন্টার ক্রো চরিত্রটার ভক্ত বনে গেলুম বাহে!
জেমস রোলিনস সমপরকে কি আর বলার! অযাকশন+অযাডভেঞচার থরিলারের রাজপুতরই বলা যায় তাকে। তার লেখাগুলোর মাঝে সবচেয়ে জনপরিয় সিরিজ হল 'সিগমা ফোরস'। আর এই সিগমা সিরিজেরই পরথম বই 'সযানডসটরম'।বযাখযার অতীত এক বিসফোরনে কেঁপে উঠল লনডন মিউজিয়াম। বিসফোরনের উৎপততি মিউজিয়ামের নরথ উইং এর 'কেনসিংটন গযালারী'তে। বহু বছর আগে নিজের বাবার অনতরধানের সাথে এই বিসফোরণের সামঞজসয খুজতে বের হল লেডি কারা কেনসিংটন, তার বানধবী ড. সাফিয়া আল মায়াজ, পরতনতাততবিক ওমাহা ডান। তাদের সাথে যোগ দিল আমেরিকান সংসথা ডারপা-র বিশেষ ইউনিট সিগমা ফোরস

The last time I read this, it took me almost a week to get through it, and it felt like it was never going to end.
It's a pretty cool concept for a story, and I liked the science behind it.
But I wasn't really a big fan of the rest of the characters, and adding in the unrequited insta-love Painter felt for Safia was more than a little ridiculous and totally unnecessary.
It didn't add anything to his character, and it served only to boost tension between Painter and Omaha (can we stop with the ridiculous names already OMG).In short, it started out brilliantly, and the settings throughout were very cool.
Hmmmmm........Sandstorm not bad, but not that good either, since this is my first time with this aut
At a bare minimum I expect the author to do a bit of homework when he sets a scene and not present something which is totally inane and illogical.
Here's how the author introduces the Indiana Jones type main character:1.
The girl protagonist phones him on her cell from London and gets him on a boat in the Three Gorges area of Sichuan, China.2.
IJ is in a New Zealand jet boat which he somehow was able to get into China.3.
IJ has just stolen some dinosaur eggs from the Gobi Desert -- forget the fact that the Gobi is half a country away from the Three Gorges.4.
Eu costumo apreciar bastante as obras de Rollins, são normalmente fluidas, repletas de ação, com personagens cativantes e enredos de cortar a respiração.
A ação está presente, sem dúvida, é uma história que se desenrola rapidamente e em que há poucos momentos mortos, mas senti, no entanto, alguma dificuldade em me ligar às personagens ou à trama propriamente dita.
Não sei se tal aconteceu porque o livro é realmente mais fraco que os restantes que já li ou se foi porque ando numa fase mais stressante e, por demorar mais tempo a lê-lo, acabei por não o apreciar na sua plenitude, mas, de facto, não consegui retirar desta obra o que estava à espera.
This is our first introduction to Painter Crowe and the series by James Rollins.
I like this author a lot.
His background as a veterinarian has led him to be a thorough researcher and lends credibility to his worldbuilding and plots.
The good guys have bad points and serious issues and the bad guys all have valid reasons (at least to them) for doing what they're doing.This is a high stakes doomsday plot that's first rate.
Interesting twist on the SIMILARITIES between three of the world's big religions that took me by surprise.
History, religion and very technical science all blended together seamlessly.
1.5 stars - I didn't like it.DNF'd around 20%. Just not my type of book - very plot driven and action packed which normally leaves me bored and distracted; quite the paradox.--------------------------------First Sentence: Harry Masterson would be dead in thirteen minutes.
Sad smo malkice u pustinji, akcije i neobičnosti ne nedostaje, a to je čak i prvi dio njegovog Sigma serijala - šteta što ga više nije prevedeno.
অসাধারণ লেগেছে । রিডারস বলক কাটাতে এর চেয়ে ভালো বই ছিল না । লাসটে টান টান উততেজনা ছিল ।একদম জেট পলেনের মত সাই দিয়ে বই পড়তে হয়েছে ।
অসাধারণ লেগেছে । রিডার্স ব্লক কাটাতে এর চেয়ে ভালো বই ছিল না । লাস্টে টান টান উত্তেজনা ছিল ।একদম জেট প্লেনের মত সাই দিয়ে বই পড়তে হয়েছে ।
