https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3110.Assassination_Vacation
In both that, I’ve learned all this great stuff about the assassinations of Lincoln, Garfield and McKinley, but also in that I’ve learned that people think I’m a freak.I’ve been carrying this around for the last few weeks, trying to read a page or two on the Shuttle between work campuses or while I scarf down my dressing free rabbit food… and of course people ask that dreadful question: ‘What are you reading?’ and of course I enthusiastically show them the cover and say ‘OMG!
(okay, I actually say ‘Oh My God!’) it’s this great book about this woman who takes this pilgrimage to the sites of the assassinations of three presidents and the homes of their assassins!’ and then I get the look.
“I’ll wrestle Colonel Green, the dude who led a genocidal war in the 21st century, if you help save me from John Wilkes Booth."Kirk agrees, Lincoln throat punches Green and then Scotty transports Lincoln into an alternative dimension where he encounters the Scooby Gang.Lincoln was all out of Scooby snacks and Scooby is good pals with the Super Friends so they shipped his Lincoln-log ass off to Superman.Batman was all set to help, but Mrs. Lincoln was wearing pearls and this brought back a sense memory from his mom and dad getting gunned down and this make Bats cry.Meanwhile on Earth 616, Captain America is attacked by a HYDRA-animated (view spoiler)[Hail Hydra!!
Assassination Vacation is meant for those people (I include myself here) who do things like drive overnight from Omaha to Montana in order to look at a battlefield, or who call the National Park Service while driving the backroads of Wyoming looking for the Grattan Massacre monument, which is located in Farmer McDonald's corn field, or who can't pass by a historical marker without pulling the car over and hopping out with a camera.
I think more than anything, good history teaches us what it means to be human.
Enter Sarah Vowell with her strange voice, and a host of stories of informational plaques that she visited around the country, and other monuments to assassination attempts.
Not a president, but definitely political, and assassination attempts going both ways.This is well researched, she makes obscurity interesting, and it was a nice diversion from the present day.My only disappointment with the audiobook is that the cover makes it seem like the other voices will have prominent roles, but they are only very occasionally brought in to read a quotation.
That said her voice is definitely distinct.
Sarah Vowell, a contributor to NPR's 'This American Life' and the voice of Violet Parr in 'The Incredibles', is fascinated with presidential murder and this book takes the reader with her on a journey to various locations which pertain to three assassinated presidents..
Sarah Vowell visited Ford's Theatre in Washington, D.C., which is where Lincoln was shot by John Wilkes Booth while he was enjoying a play 'Our American Cousin'.
I was also interested in Sarah Vowell's journey to visit President James Garfield's family farm in Mentor, Ohio.
Ugh!
Sarah Vowell, you annoy the hell out of me, on This American Life and in this book.
I always think, "that would be totally funny if that happened to me" but her writing is never sufficient enough to translate it to the page.
She's just not a good storyteller--she wants to be David Sedaris but she can't seem to pull it off.
I have a friend that confuses her with Starley Kine on This American Life because they both have funny voices but Starley Kine is a wonderful and moving storyteller.
And Vowell sounds as geeky as she is and (after googling her) looks exactly the way I imagined her.One negative piece of criticism: It's too bad she spent so much time on Lincoln and Booth, far less on Garfield and Kinley and their respective assassins and none at all on Kennedy (except for some name-throwing-round supposed to show repetition in history in the last 10 minutes of the book).
This is a book my wife and I listened to as we drive to doctor appointments, visited children, etc., so it took us a while to get through it completely.
It's delightful.Vowell's description of staying in a bed and breakfast is priceless.
It mirrors a stay my wife and I had where the other couple at breakfast bragged about the shooting club and contests at her son's school.
"Why, the NRA, of course," was the reply.
Then, of course, there's always Super-8 as an alternative.Lots of fascinating detail.
I cannot recommend this book enough - but listen to it.
Over half of this book is about Abraham Lincoln’s assassination; the rest goes to those of James Garfield and William McKinley (attempts on T.
If the rest of Vowell’s books are this nerdy-cool, I’ll be reading them all.Favorite lines:“Somewhere on the road between museum displays of Lincoln’s skull fragments and the ceramic tiles on which Garfield was gunned down and McKinley’s bloodstained pj’s it occurred to me that there is a name for travel embarked upon with the agenda of venerating relics: pilgrimage.”A friend says to her, “Assassinations are your Kevin Bacon.
She manages to sneak in a lot of history alongside her wry, sly, sarcastic witticisms, as well as her biting commentary on our current administration, which was great fun to read.
Several times in the book, she would stop the "action" to write something along the lines of, "I'm just so crazy/wacky/offbeat/curious that I will drag my unwitting friends to this off-the-wall/remote/disturbing/strange/arcane historic site." As in, aren't I unique?
Aren't I cool?
As someone who's gone through an academic program in historic preservation, I've met tons of people who are fascinated by all manner of historic places, sites, and objects--and they don't need to proclaim their coolness on a billboard or in a book.
So wah wah long story, didn’t read it for forever, but now I have.The cheekily ingenious conceit behind this book is that Vowell embarks on a sort of historical tourism of the assassinations of Presidents Lincoln, Garfield, and McKinley.
She then writes about not only the experience of visiting those places (including the people she encounters there), but also the history and context of the events and the sites themselves.If you’ve never read a Sarah Vowell book before, this turns out to be surprisingly fun.
And when he heard that they were the hands of Abraham Lincoln, the man, Edwin Booth [brother of John Wilkes], silently placed them back upon the shelf.(Assassination Vacation, p.
116) Abraham Lincoln's son Robert Todd was present at three separate Presidential assassinations--his father's, James Garfield's, and William McKinley's.
Sarah Vowell is incredibly fascinated with all of the fascinating history behind the violent (and fascinating?) deaths of four assassinated US Presidents, and she wants you to be fascinated too.
Kennedy was shot on my mom's birthday (she was twelve), and if Sarah Vowell knew those two (fascinating!) facts, I bet she would totally want to be my friend.
To me, the biggest thing that jumps out about this author's style is that she is the Chuck Klosterman of political history.
This is very similar to "Killing Yourself to Live", except rather than introspective tangents on the author's interpersonal relationships (which allow the reader to get closer to and relate to the author) she goes off on pointless political tangents that run completely counter to the overall tone of the book.The author does her best writing when she stays primarily in the realm of tongue in cheek chasing of useless trivia.
But we had both read Vowell's The Wordy Shipmates a couple of years ago, and when she saw this title in her favorite bookseller's catalog, she ordered it, read it, and gave it to me.I remembered Vowell as being a little too smart-alecky for my taste in Shipmates, even though I did learn a lot about the Puritans that I never imagined.
But Garfield and McKinley?
Nary a word that I can recall.Vowell covers a lot of information here, and presents it in a compelling way that kept me picking up the book and not wanting to put it down.
While I'm waiting for that book to come along, I will look for other titles by Vowell and see what else my history teachers skipped.
That love and passion is present in her somewhat erratic way of trying to tell the story of the Lincoln, Garfield, and McKinley assassinations, and it made it interesting and easy to devour.Still, I am left at a three-star rating for this particular book, though I certainly intend to continue on with her other books later.
Mostly because she spent so much time on Lincoln, to the point that McKinley and Garfield nearly felt like an afterthought.
Garfield and McKinley, though not as iconic, were still presidential assassinations, and that’s huge, and combined I’m not sure their story quite takes up half of the book.
I’m going to quote her thoughts on this because a) it’s applicable to the current president and b) her discussion of egotism is fascinating and it relates to why she wrote this book:Like director Tim Douglas, my simmering rage against the current president scares me.
I look forward to reading more of her books.Quick Addition to ReviewIn the second quoted passage above, Vowell says she is amazed at the egotism needed for a man (obviously written pre-Hillary) to run for president and think he can fix America's problems.
When I read that quote again, it's funny at how innocent it seems now; she assumes that the men/women running for the office of president actually want to fix these things!
Vowell's pilgrimage to sites associated with the assassinations of Presidents Lincoln, Garfield, and McKinley struck so many cords with me it is hard to know where to begin.
I knew a lot of what she mentioned about the Lincoln assassination (though by no means all of it), but really, does anybody know much about Garfield or McKinley?
The story she tells connecting her Oneida tea pot to the Oneida cult/"intentional community" in upstate New York and then to Garfield's assassin is not only fascinating, it also seriously makes me want to marry her.
Of course, it’s only because of the author that I’d expected a book about Presidential assassinations would make me laugh.I was disappointed that only 3 Presidents (Lincoln, Garfield, McKinley) were the focus here, and that they are all Republicans, although there are extremely brief mentions of JFK, RFK, and Martin Luther King, Jr., Gandhi, and a bit more than them about Teddy Roosevelt.
However, I did really appreciate the information that isn’t typically included in history books, and even in many biography booksSo, I did end up enjoying this, but she’s still much funnier in person.
But Ms. Vowell has, for whatever reason, something of an obsessive interest in the subject, and in this book she invites on a tour of her own explorations into the history, locations, and people surrounding the fatal moments of the above gentlemen and their more famous counterpart, Abraham Lincoln.It seems odd to describe a book about such a disturbing subject as "delightful," but Sarah has just the right sense of macabre, intellectual humor to guide us through the museums of the icky (presidential bone fragments, anyone?) to settle on the fascinating.
However, over time I got tired of the author taking every opportunity to take juvenile shots at the Bush administration, the Iraq war, and Republicans in general.
It might have been interesting in an actual, serious book about politics, but this is not that - instead, Vowell's political criticism is just above the level of "Bush is the devil!
A book actually comparing the Iraq war and the Bush administration, to historical administrations, could be quite interesting.
Someone who's trying to do both, with the skill of a newly radicalized college freshman, is just....lame.
Some interesting historical detail here, but I found the book as a whole a rather uneven jumble, not nearly as interesting as I had expected. And the audiobook was simply dreadful. While I'd enjoyed Vowell's unique voice on NPR, etc., I now realize that such enjoyment is limited to small doses. And the inclusion of celebrity narrators for direct quotes didn't work at all, making this one of the clunkiest audio adaptations I've encountered.
Coming out of the real-life, adult, on-the-page Sarah Vowell, though, her voice is the spillings out of anyone awkwardly and energetically overcompensating.And, boom, there’s her charm, and the charm of Assassination Vacation, Vowell’s latest book-length road trip along another unnoticed plane of American history, in this case the tourism of American presidential assassinations.Lest you wonder how this could be a worthy subject, Vowell offers that there’s a parallel to relical pilgrimage, which speaks to the supposed fervor or irrationality of those who would abandon all security to travel a thousand miles to inhale the healing dust of a saint.
Funny how that works out, as I love straight up history, but Millard went a little too far in the beatification of Garfield, while Vowell focused more on the one-man--delusional-show of Charles Guiteau.
Interesting note here: Robert Todd Lincoln, President Lincoln's only surviving son, was near/present at *all three* of these assassinations - obviously his father's, he was in the train station with Garfield, and while not "with McKinley", he had just arrived in town for the Pan-American conference at the same time as McKinley.
This is in no way real or based on actual events.Let's say that a good neighbor, friend and fellow book junkie lends you a paperback book.
Suppose the book got very mild water damage on it, just enough to look like you read it on the sea shore of Bermuda.
Would you...a. Give it back and never acknowledge said water damage.b. Wait until a rainy day and return it by putting it on the front porch.c. Buy a new book for the owner and give both back.d. Announce the dilemma on the world wide web.Thanks for your help on this purely hypothetical situation.
A quirky look at three assassinations; Lincoln, Garfield and McKinley(why no Kennedy?) as the author travels around to various locations related to each event.
Half the book is spent on Lincoln, Booth and his conspirators with stops at multiple locations including the Mudd home(which is apparently still difficult to find) and Fort Jefferson in Florida where the conspirators were incarcerated.
While enjoyable, the approach of the book seemed a bit scattershot and I never felt compelled to keep reading at the expense of other things.6/10
The oxymoronic title of this book sums it up: it’s a travelogue of Sarah Vowell’s tours to all the important sites surrounding the assassinations of three out of four of America’s assassinated presidents, ie Abraham Lincoln, James Garfield, and William McKinley.
Like Lincoln’s assassination, Garfield’s also arose from post-Civil War conflict, and McKinley, himself a Civil War veteran, ushered in the new phase of north-south cooperation as the U.S. grew into a global power.This is the second Sarah Vowell book I’ve ever read, and I liked it even more than the last one (The Wordy Shipmates, which is about the Puritans.) It’s got more history, more snarky laughs, and a lot less vitriol.
Thumbing her nose at traditional, dry-as-toast, linear history telling; Ms. Vowell chooses to reveal facts in a rambling, compelling, thought-provoking and often hilarious style. I think I'll need to buy all of her books now.
In the beginning of the story, Vowell says that she is afraid that someday when she is old and gray and her niece opens her photo album, she will see that all those pictures were taken from memorials, historical sites, gravesites and statues of assassinated American presidents.
Vowell touring the sites where the likes of President Abraham Lincoln (assassin: John Wilkes Booth in 1865), President James Abram Garfield (assassin: Charles J.
Lincoln was the 16th, Garfield the 20th and McKinley the 25th presidents of the United States of America.
More than half of the book are on President Lincoln.
I started wondering if she would just make each stop on her bizarre journey a punch line but found something quite different: a fine discussion of events surrounding the people and places involved in the assassination of three presidents: Lincoln, Garfield and McKinley.
My favorite part was her musings at the end of the book: Comparing her love and obsession with history to the religion she rejected.
What I am most grateful for is that she makes it clear that within the soul of a progressive, liberal-minded thinker beats the heart of a true patriot honestly and deeply stirred by the sight of the Lincoln Memorial, the historical plaques and war memorials and all they represent.
In short, if you want to learn about the Presidents, there are a lot of ways you can go about it.Ms. Vowell here explores the more morbid side of Presidential history, especially the inevitable morbidness of being in history-love with Abraham Lincoln.
Lincoln, in life, has a great deal to appreciate.Study Lincoln long enough, however, and you eventually get to the sad part - his assassination by John Wilkes Booth in 1865.Sitting in Ford's Theatre in Washington DC, she was struck by the same thought many people have when they go there - "Wow. This was the place." She sat in the Chinese restaurant that was built on the site of the boarding house where Booth and his co-conspirators made their plans and thought the same thing.
