https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/207715.People_in_the_Summer_Night
3 1/2*, cuốn sách của nhà văn phần lan duy nhất đạt Nobel, đọc xong muốn đọc thêm những cuốn khác xem ông í xử lý kỹ thuật thế nào. Cuốn này đọc thấy rất buồn cười không phải vì nội dung buồn cười mà ở chỗ cái nhịp đều đều không tăng không giảm không hình sự không gì cả, tất cả như bị thiên nhiên làm cho nghẹt hết cả đi và có một triệu nhân vật liền và ai cũng được đối xử với mức độ ngang nhau. Có khả năng không viết được bài review.
Yrjö 'Nokia' Salonen struggles with his inner turmoil and lovelessness, young couple Helka and Arvid enjoy their time together, Santra needs tenderness while her husband Jukka wanders around drunk, Hilja and Jalmari are expecting their third child, a lonely artist ponders his role as a father and the old matriarch of Teliranta remembers her girlhood through her grandchild Helka.The mood is lingering, like the gentle breeze of wind on a sizzling hot summer day, and the tenderness of a Finnish summer night can only be understood by those who have experienced it.
❤
Beautifully written story about one eventful summer night in a small village in rural Finland. The text captures perfectly the atmosphere of a white northern summer night. It was great to read it in the middle of nature right after Midsummer.
2/5DNF - p.44nó không dở, là tại mình đọc không vô :/
Ihmiset suviyössä on Sillanpään kaunein teos, herkkä ja runollinen. Kirja kestää vaikka kuinka monta lukukertaa ja joka kerran jälkeen siitä jää hyvä olo. Hymyilyttää. Kirja pitää lukea kesällä ulkona heinäpellossa maaten, kun aurinko paistaa, ruoho tuoksuu ja vain linnunlaulu kuuluu ympäriltä.
Cách viết rất lạ, sẽ tfm đọc thêm của tác giả này
Recommended Finnish classic to read. It will transport you to a time that doesnt exist anymore, yet feels eternal. Read this on a warm summer night in the Nordics and you wont be disappointed!
And were I to focus on the major theme of this work, it would seem hopelessly cliche, because essentially the book is about the cycle of life and death.
Human life, even amid constant technological change, still centers around a stable and limited number of concerns.Sillanpaa chooses to tell his story over the nights surrounding a weekend, mostly Saturday and Sunday.
If the first and last thirty pages are each focused on mundane descriptions, the middle one hundred and packed with plot.
The problem is that that doctor is off on another visit: elsewhere in town one man has stabbed another to death and struggles in vain to bring the man to life.
Tämän kirjan lukeminen kesti ja kesti ja sain sen luettua kuukaudessa lähinnä siksi, että oli pakko.
Näkökulmatekniikan ansiosta teos olikin ajalleen varsin modernistinen.Teoksessa kuvataan kahden kesäyön aikaisia tapahtumia ja niiden kautta välittyvä suomalainen maaseutukuva näyttää hyvin idylliseltä ja kauniilta, se tuo mieleen vanhan suomalaisen elokuvan.
Kirjan tunnelman voisi hyvinkin kiteyttää jo sen ensimmäiseen virkkeeseen: "Mitään suviyötä pohjolassa tuskin onkaan; on vain viipyvä, viipyessään hiukan himmenevä ehtoo, mutta siinä himmeydessäänkin on tuo sanalla sanomaton kirkastuksensa." Suvinen yö on kaunis, eikä ainakaan yhtenä sellaisena Telirannan talon ympäristössä paljoa nukuta.
Kirja oli toisaalta varsin mielenkiintoinen, mutta itseeni ei Sillanpään kirjoitustyyli erityisemmin iskenyt.
If an isolated house, having taken its last inmate under shelter, is like a mother, then so is the whole expanse of the summer night with its earth and sky; in its embrace even the most unhappy mortal, at least if he is alone, will always rest in one way or another.”Sweet vignettes of Finnish farm life.
“For Helka the summer had been pleasant and beautiful; here at Teliranta she had lived the simple life of a human being, working for the joy of it, doing work which did not tax the spirit, even if it sometimes tired the body, feeling only the invisible increase of bodily and spiritual strength.”
Ah, how beautifully Sillanpää captures the sedate rhythm of nature and people as part of it. I've always been crazy about the idea of setting story to take place over small period of time; one night, evening, afternoon... It gives much more space to be precise or to enjoy certain moods, certain thoughts, longer than in an epic. Light of Finnish summer is very mysterious thing and here, Sillanpää captures its radiation, makes it his rhythm, heartbeat of these folks living in some happy-sad corner of the world.
Alussa oli vähän hankaluuksia päästä sisään tähän kirjaan. Täytyy myöntää, että pidän itse enemmän juonivetoisista tarinoista kuin maalailevasta kielestä, mitä tämä Sillanpää edustaa, mutta on tässä hieno tunnelma. Alkuvaikeuksien jälkeen pääsin tarinaan paremmin sisään, mutta ei tästä mitään suursuosikkia tullut. Omaan makuuni oli vähän liian työläs lukea ja jouduin säännöllisesti palaamaan taaksepäin, kun ajatukset karkailivat ja tipuin matkasta. Mielenkiintoisia hahmoja ja hieno tunnelma, mutta kirjoitustyyli ei ollut omaan makuuni.
Sillanpaa's book is filled with poetic, "fine-writing" prose, but I'm not sure it qualifies as a novel. 20 or 30 pages in, there begin to be signs that the book might develop some characters. But with no clear goal in sight (no plot, certainly), at page 50 I finally gave up. The writing is very abstracted and focused only on "moments" and images. Some things attempted in this novel one can find better executed in Tarjei Vesaas and in Tove Jansson's The Summer Book.
Hienosti kirjoitettu teos suomalaisesta suvesta kahden illan osalta sekä niiden sisällään pitämistä tapahtumista ja ihmisten mielentiloista. Lukemista ei tarvinnut erityisemmin kiirehtiä, sillä teoksen tunnelma vei mukanansa ja teksti soljui eteenpäin kuin itsestään. Hieno kotimainen klassikko, jonka lyhyeen pituuteen mahtuu kaikki oleellinen suomalaisesta suvesta. Annan tälle 4 tähteä.
Người ta vẫn còn có thể cảm thấy xúc động trước vẻ đẹp thuần khiết của những con chữ.
Finland
Omaan makuun vähän turhan maalailevaa fiilistelyä. En päässyt oikein juttuun sisälle.
kesäsuomi.
http://digicoll.library.wisc.edu/cgi-...
Một cuốn sách nhẹ nhàng, giọng văn đều đều, không có nhân vật nào là nhân vật chính, và tất cả đều được bao phủ bởi thiên nhiên của 2 đêm trắng mùa hè của Phần Lan.
