https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/45364.The_Pleasures_of_God
To that end, Piper broke the book into two sections: 1) The pleasure of God in Himself (in Jesus, in His actions, in creation, in His own Glory); 2) the pleasure of God in His people (in election, in justification, in providence, in our prayer, in our obedience).Analysis: Like pretty much every Piper book I've ever read, it's theologically correct, full of wonderful insights, dry, and about a hundred pages longer than it really needs to be.
Also, it is about how God is most glorified in us when we are most satisfied in him.Who Should Read This Book: People who will likely never pick up Jonathan Edwards.
My mothers favourite book- she wrote this about it in the flyleaf of a copy sent to friends before she died: "Other than the Scriptures, no book has brought such sheer delight to my soul as this one.
It is not to be consumed in one sitting, but read one delicious section at a time; to be chwed on, ruminated upon before going on to the next juicy morsel!
My hope and prayer is that this book will encourage your heart to delight even more, and cherish with greater passion, the God, who in loving abandon, took upon Himself human flesh.
For our God and His Glory!
Love, Susan (Becker) "
I look forward to reading "Future Grace", the final book in the "trilogy".The premise of "The Pleasures of God" is that we can learn about God's character by observing what gives Him pleasure, and as we reflect on this, we can't help but be more conformed to Him. Each of the ten chapters addresses an object of God's love or pleasure, from His Son, to His creation, to doing good for His children.
He is clearly enraptured with the beauty of God and longs for others to join him.
Downsides: Piperishly heavy, focuses in a little TOO much on a few nitty-gritty details of a thought or passage, and carries the same, single overriding theme as most of Piper's works.Upsides: Pipersihly heavy, focuses on areas & trains of thought that many will not see in a passage, and reiterates the same, single overriding theme that I need to be reminded of more than I am.I wanted a theological feast to start the year, and I got it.
And especially if within that view you need to be reminded of why he does all he does, as an inspiration and basis for you to do all you do, for him.
This is a fascinating study of God based on the premise that what someone delights in reveals much about who they are.
So, Piper has written a book unlike any other that I've read where he identifies, explores and explains many of the things in which God takes pleasure.
D.A. Carson calls The Pleasures of God the most important book Piper has ever written.
As a word of warning, the concepts are heavy and the exegesis is thorough, so the book will likely be most enjoyed by highly motivated high school students and up, since it is conceptually and theologically on par with a seminary course.
John Piper's books are slow reading for me, not because they are dull but because their subject matter takes time to digest and reflect upon. This book was a spiritually enriching read and an aid to getting to know who God is. And guess what? He is actually quite happy and wants to share his perfections with others so that their happiness will be complete.
See Romans 5:9)But, even beyond the issues of righteousness, sin, redemption, and forgiveness, John Piper used verses to show that God the Father was well-pleased with His Son in other ways that are not ours to claim, just as Jesus' deity is not ours to claim.
We can rest in God's love for us and His value of us without feeling jealous of the Father's affection for Jesus.Chapter 2: The 2nd chapter was equally as powerful, focusing on the verse:"Whatever the LORD pleases, He does, in heaven and on earth, in the seas and all deeps." - Psalm 135:6This chapter focused on God's pleasure in being both Sovereign and all-powerful, and brought me in awe of Him, of those attributes.
Is it possible to worship your way through an entire book?Read the absolutely masterful book, The Pleasures of God, and find out.The work is a transcription of Piper's meditation upon a central thought, namely: If it is true, as Henry Scougal says, that "the worth and excellency of a soul is to be measured by the object of its love," how then is God's excellency to be measured?
Doing good to those who hope in him (Psalm 147:10-11)"God takes pleasure in this response because it magnifies the glory of his grace and satisfies the longing of my soul."8.
“The worth and excellency of a soul is to be measured by the object of its love.” -Henry ScougalOnce again, Piper gets to what is at the heart of all of his writing and preaching: God is most glorified in us when we are most satisfied in him.
This book was written to show that God takes pleasure in His nature and work as well as in the responses of his people.
In each chapter, you discover how God has set out to glorify himself.
Grace is the enabling gift of God not to sin.
I love this book so very much. It is very rich and packed with truth written in an artful, frank and easy-t0-read way, which I greatly appreciated. I will definitely read it again and treasure it, at times I didn't fully appreciate its wonder, which is why I went so slow. But once I quieted down and focused on reading it, I loved it.
Excellent meditation on God's pleasure in being God! God's passion to uphold the infinite value of His glory is one of the central themes of the book. Much like other books by Piper, this book makes much of God and I praise God for such insight into His character. Praise God for John Piper! Be prepared to stretch your mind to think about the things that delight God. Shouldn't that be our goal every day, anyway? Highly recommended book!
Simply spectacular!
A phrase we now use among contemporary churches, and perhaps a phrase that has been used for years but now resurfaces, is the phrase "God-centered.' Reading through this book revealed in my own life how far from that phrase I had grown accustomed to thinking and living. Piper fleshes out what it looks like when we truly see the gospel and Scripture itself from the lens of a God-centered theology.
The foundation of all reality is the eternally rejoicing and self-sufficient triune God. An epochal book—for me, at least. The appendix, "Are There Two Wills in God?," is particularly helpful, a great example of bringing careful exegesis to sound theological conclusions.
One of the most important books in my life!
Simply put, this is the most important book I have ever read outside of the Bible. It is massively changing, worldview shaping, heart molding, mind forming, eye opening stuff.
Well-written and a strong defense of God's sovereignty. Quite devotional at times, except for the multi-page long footnotes.
Read just before Desiring God, also by John Piper. Great to read in conjunction with one another. Unpacks the glory of God through His enjoyment of His own self. Amazing stuff.
The subject matter was great. It was just very dry. Hard for me to get through. I've not always felt that way about Piper's books.
John MacArthur describes this book perfectly: "A rich feast for the serious believer."
Perhaps the most important book I've ever read.
This book is built on the premise that "The worth and excellency of a soul is to be measured by the object of its love", and that God is utmost in His own affections.
Thus God proves Himself to be most excellent because He loves above all else that which is most excellent- Himself.
The greatest joy we can know, is to know God and delight in Him with the very delight that He has in Himself.
John Piper, the pastor theologian, utilizes his ability in this book to think about these big, weighty, truths in regards to our really big God, and communicate them so that they are more easily grasped by even non-theologically trained readers.
Rich, deeply theological, thought-provoking, challenging, and profoundly encouraging and gospel-centered.
I will say that I often find him more difficult to read than to listen to since he digs so deeply into such weighty concepts, but this one was easier compared to other books of his.
I hadn’t really considered his primary thesis before — a primary way to know someone better is to find out what he or she loves, so why wouldn’t we use this strategy to know God?
And this book has certainly opened my eyes to just how rich and infinite and unsearchable our Lord is in His loves.
IncreibleEs un libro que ayuda a conocer a Dios mas íntimamente y refleja las verdades bíblicas correctamente interpretadas no torciendo nada del mensaje que ellas quieren dar. Nos ayuda a enforcarnos en Dios y su gloria
Can I give this book six stars?! This was an excellent read. It helped me understand a bit more about God and the delight He has in His glory, although I still have much to learn. :-) I recommend this book.
“Grace is not simply leniency when we have sinned. Grace is the enabling gift of God not to sin. Grace is power, not just pardon.”
So many good truths!!!
One of my favorite Piper books!
This is the first book I read after becoming a Christian in 2004, and rereading it now was sweeter than before. God loves being God, and that’s good news for us.
Took my time to chew on this, reading it over several months. The book is a bit longer than it needs to be, but it expounds many wonderful, wonderful truths.
