https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/835203.Hombre
Piecing things together, he must have lived with them about from the time he was six to about age twelve.Insisting he also be sold a ticket on the mud wagon is Frank Braden, a tough hombre who mistakes Russell for an Indian and tries bullying him out of his passage.
Those ways kept popping into your head while Russell just sat there looking down the draw and waiting.Hombre is loaded to bear with mortal danger that Elmore Leonard does a terrific job of conveying to the reader.
His writing is usually so efficient and effortless that it doesn't seem like he's doing much but his stories sneak up on you anyway.
I always struggle to go into detail about why I like the books, other than to say that I really enjoyed the story.
Although there haven't been any Leonard books so far that have blown me away, I can definitely say I've enjoyed the five that I've read.
Leonard's spare style and his use of first-person (his only novel to use that POV), is effective at lending the story it's mythic tone.
I haven't read anything by the author, nor viewed the movie adaption so can't compare the two however it's no secret that I enjoy a good "western".The story unfolds through the eyes of Carl Allen who is a passenger on a stagecoach that is waylaid by robbers.
Among the passengers is John Russell a white man who spent his early years living amongst the Indians.This is a novel of prejudice and greed versus survival and moral integrity.
Good versus evil.
Enjoyed the characters presented here, particularly the enigmatic and taciturn John Russell who walks between two worlds.
An excellent book made into a movie that followed it very closely starring Paul Newman.
It just doesn't get any better than that.
It's a western, very realistic & gritty.Leonard's characters are all flawed in such interesting ways.
The hero is a halfbreed who resents the hell out of the world & makes life hard on himself because he won't communicate.
It's not stupid, but understandable the way Leonard writes it.
The logic of each character is remorseless.
Like a train wreck, you can see it coming but it is inexorable, so all you can do is watch in fascination & wonder about the details.
Okey, dokey guys. This is the first western I've ever read and I loved it. However, it's by Elmore Leonard and there are not many books by EL that I haven't enjoyed. I will read again; it went right back on my "to read again" shelf because I wasn't feeling well and mind wandered. Can't believe that 1) I read a western; 2) I loved the main character; and 3) there was a story to tell, a well-crafted story. No surprises there, it was by the Master, Elmore Leonard.
I've heard it said that Leonard did this stuff better than anybody and Hombre is perhaps his finest work within the western field, if that is true I think I may be done with Westerns now.This is the novel that was faithfully adapted in to a fine revisionist movie starring Paul Newman as Hombre.
Loved it. Certainly a classic Western as it's often touted, Hombre was published in 1961. It is Elmore Leonard's only first person point-of-view novel, according to his 1989 Introduction to The Armchair Detective Library edition I read. Believe it or not, my local public library still shelved it in their holdings. The Apache-raised white John Russell is a perplexing protagonist given his stoic, pragmatic outlook. I liked the narrator's voice, brisk pace, steady build up, and gut-felt climax. Did I say I dug Hombre? I've seen the movie Hombre with Paul Newman, also, which is also quite excellent.
His writing style felt like it was adjusted to match the dryness of the Arizona desert as well as the solitude of its main character, John Russell.
Leonard gambles with the lives of all his characters and in doing so, repeatedly pits the value of one life against another.
He makes the end a relief but the end also provokes the biggest question of the book: John Russell.With John Russell, Leonard once again creates a distinct human persona.
This complexity is maintained until the very end, when one of the supporting characters, the narrator of the story, thinks he has John Russell figured out, but even now, I still have my doubts.
3.5 actual ratingThe early western works of Elmore Leonard read like one of the old spaghetti westerns on tv. It was an easy read and good overall but there was just not enough action taking place for me to give it a full 4 stars.
Brutal western about a stagecoach robbery.
I'm a fan of those early ones for their remarkable compactness and directness of style, but HOMBRE is the first one that feels really different, not just in its themes but in the way Leonard approaches the characters.It's unique also in that it's the first (and only) one written in first person.
It's narrated by a former stage coach company clerk, riding along on an emergency journey with a disparate group of people-- his former boss Mendez, a fiery tempered young woman who has just been rescued from captivity by Apaches, a shady Indian Affairs agent named Favor and Favor's wife, an even shadier gunman with dubious intentions named Braden, and the "Hombre" of the title: the taciturn John Russell.
Somehow I thought this was Elmore Leonard's first novel.
The story is set in Arizona mining country complete with stage coaches, outlaws, and a big pile of money over which the other main characters commit violence and crime.I hadn't known that Leonard started out with Westerns.
Though his style is not as flashy as it became, the voice is recognizable as is the timing of the plot and the hint of philosophy underlying it.A movie version starring Paul Newman was released in 1967 but since I have not yet seen it, the climax in the novel came as a complete surprise to me.
Hombre is a hero alright but with Elmore Leonard's brand on him.
In the middle of reading Singer's The Manor, hanging Around 19th century Poles, I sort of stumbled into Hombre on my Nook at the doctor's office.
A few pages and I was hooked.
What wonderfully crafted language and characters, along with a plot that's impossible to put down.
Always a big Paul Newman fan, I vaguely remember the movie, in which he played the title character.
It was good, but I don't think it began to define the characters the way the book does.
It's only about a hundred pages, and I got it very chap from BookBub, I think, although I don't know if it's still available.
This novel isnt the best i have read by Elmore Leonard when it comes to the storytelling but the prose,the writing was so fine,crisp and in his best form in my experience. The dialogue,the characters, the sense of place was a great read and much more interesting than how the novel begins and ends.
Bettie's Books
When the stagecoach is held up, the passengers need Russell's help and familiarity with weaponry and terrain in order to survive.The book develops many different characters including Mendez, the driver, and the passengers, Brandon, Dr. Favor, the corrupt superintendent of an Indian reservation, his young wife, a 17 year old, "McClaren girl" who also has been held by the Apache and is returning home, and the narrator,Carl Allen, who is seeking a new job and success.
The story explores the characters' varied reactions to the precarious situation in which they find themselves in the Arizona desert pursued by outlaws.The main interest in the book lies in Hombre.
And most importantly, a solitary horseback rider in a barren landscape versus a swooning bargirl (complete with garter and bustier) and a mustachioed hero?Oh, I was judging.And I was judging ALL westerns, not just the pulp series that I quickly rejected.
The book I ultimately chose to read, Elmore Leonard’s Hombre, is a fine example of a writer working within the genre conventions, while playing with traditional concepts.The story of John Russell (the titular “hombre”) is related through the eyes of young librarian Carl Allen.
When Russell joins the stagecoach, it’s to go to the land that his white relatives left him, yet his white fellow passengers largely insist that he sit with the driver.
From BBC Radio 4 - Saturday Drama:John Russell has been raised as an Apache. Now he's on his way to live as a white man. But when the stagecoach passengers learn who he is, they want nothing to do with him. That is, until outlaws ride down on them and they must rely on Russell to lead them out of the desert.Not so bad but I still prefer his "roman noir" series.
Classic novel about a white man raised by Apaches coming to try to live in the world of his people. He gets caught up in a stage robbery and the rest depend on him for survival, even though they previously didn't even want him in the coach with them.
Who knew that the author of dark, comedic crime novels like Get Shorty and Raylan also wrote pretty darn good westerns too.
The rancher has died and left John his ranch, and the book begins with him trying to get back to claim his inheritance.
As Mendez says at the beginning of the book to his employee Carl - "Take a good look at Russell.
You will never see another one like him as long as you live." And by the end of the book we still don't know John Russell, but we know what he was made of.
I was at the end of this before I realized what was bugging me. It’s in first person, and it’s a great first person, but that means it lacks all the plot-swapping POV that Elmore does best. It’s classic Elmore, a great western, it was just that one little thing.
I knew what to expect of this for two reasons: One it's by Elmore Leonard who is one of the world's best known writers of thrillers and perhaps to a slightly lesser extent and earlier, of westerns.
The second reason I knew what to expect is that, in this case, I've seen the film.
To anyone who likes well written "classic" westerns, like myself, I would recommend this AND the film.
I once enjoyed several of Jack "Shane" Schaeffer's books and if I was aware of more westerns of this calibre I wouldn't certainly be happy to return to the genre.
It comes off as 'stupid.' Secondly, that narrator gets in the way of the dialogue, summarizing and interpreting what would have been great, laconic conversations in later Leonard works.Eventually, when the character of Hombre actually stops being merely stoic and says what he thinks, we get the kind of dialogue that Leonard made famous in books like Get Shorty (one of my favorites, although not as good of a movie).By the way, whoever cast Paul Newman as Hombre instead of Charles Bronson should be shot.
"You will never see another one like him as long as you live." - Henry Mendez3/4 white 1/4 Mexican, raised by Apache.
Russell and everyone were left to fend for themselves on their way back through the desert.
All for a trade for the money for a woman that the raised Apache had no care for while they all waited to see what will happen.
But knowing that no one else would walk down there for trade, Russell went down with a bag full of nothing to try and save the woman with a final stand off where no one was left alive except those in the shed.
After the muddled The Bounty Hunters (1953), Elmore Leonard’s skill as a novelist took a quantum leap forward with this novel.
That character is John Russell, the “hombre” of the title.The story is set, like other Leonard novels, in southern Arizona.
A stagecoach is held up by road agents, and all the passengers are set afoot in the desert.
The robbery doesn’t go quite as planned, and the passengers are able to retrieve a saddlebag full of money.
They strike off across the desert, pursued at some distance by the thieves, who have taken a woman hostage.Read my review at my blog.
Leonard's sparse and moving prose -- you can see why he did screenplays with his ear for dialog and character studies.Also a brilliant examination at ethics: the American Frontier as the prefect embodiment of the Locke's State of Nature.
Short, fantastic tale with a wonderful narrator. They don't want halfbreed Russell to share their stagecoach but, after they're held up and fighting to survive they quickly change their minds. A damn fine book that fizzes along without you ever noticing the strings.
Great book. A thriller. A movie was made on this book starring Paul Neuman way back. A must read for western novel fans.
Not sure why but I don't remember a lot about this one.
This is a solid 3.5 stars but I rounded up. It is a classic western story and well worth the read
