https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5096.Wizard_and_Glass
In the immortal words of The Queen  Simply…the…BEST.And yet I seem to be the only person who feels that way about this 4th installment of the Dark Tower series. Can you please riddle me why that is, sais? It’s not that fans of the series dislike this novel, but I often see it cited as their least favorite. I find that stunning and I don’t ken it. I don’t ken it a bit.While I love the entire series, this one is easily my favorite. My gushing was so torrential when I read this that I was on an IV
I don’t ken it a bit.While I love the entire series, this one is easily my favorite.
Easily the most important Roland story of the series and it provides the raison d'être for his entire obsession with the Dark Tower.
IMHO, the greatest single scene in all of the Dark Tower series, was the bar scene when Roland, Cuthbert and Alain confront the Big Coffin Hunters in defense of Sheemie.
If I had to choose a second greatest scene in all of the Dark Tower series, it would be the final showdown between the Ka-Tet and the Big Coffin Hunters in Eyebolt Canyon.
One school consider this the weakest of the seven volumes.
The other school considers this to be the finest book of the series, they loved every page of the thing.
I call these people the Oys. I'm an Oy in this regard.
Oys think the books are about the journey not the destination.
Rolands think the destination (tower) is all-important and that any step to the side or backwards is an abomination.I believe the message of this series (slight spoiler) (view spoiler)[ is that we should be Oys rather than Rolands  (hide spoiler)]This is King at his best.
(A-) 84% | Very GoodNotes: A slow, but never dull, build to a thrilling climax, it provides the sorely needed back-story lacking in previous books.
Three years later after suffering through Rose Madder and Desperation, we’d finally get Wizard & Glass.* King’s appearance in an auditorium on the K-State campus had several hundred people in it, and it took place on a foggy night.
When Roland and his friends headed east on I-70, I remembered the ‘94 tour, and I realized that King had very probably been inspired by his motorcycle ride after that appearance when he had told us that he’d be starting the new book soon.
We have picked up a few new members along the way- but only the strongest and most cunning will survive the whole journey to The Daaaaark Tooooooower.Buddy-read with our fearless leader- Quick Draw Stepheny, Jumpin' Jeff, Calamity Bev, Welcome- Kid Colt Karly, and Dastardly Dan...and let us have a moment of silence for our fallen members- Bronco Bustin' Black Jackin' Jason- Jason's perverted name will be missed- as will Jason...and who knows maybe a year from now he will get past page 43.
Some people don't want to know what made their hero that way...some like these things to remain a mystery.
Fantastic! Fascinating to finally get some backstory for Roland and what a story! Loved it. I would say it's my favourite so far, but I also thought the Gunslinger and The Drawing of the Three were 5 stars!
I think I might be done with this series.
Wizard and Glass was a dissapointment for me, unfortunately, despite looking forward to reading Roland’s backstory.
I did not like the beggining as I am not a fan of riddles and, unexepectedly, Roland’s story was even worse.
By the end of this novel I realize I don’t like the characters too much ( except for Jake), I actually despise Susannah and I don’t care that much what happens to them and the Tower.
I still like King’s writing and I plan to read more of him but it might not be this series.
I get everyone's opinion that we need that backstory of Roland, but in my opinion, King could've just considered this a novella.
He made this the fourth novel, so that means the readers are obliged to read this if they want to continue on with the series.
It was about 500 pages of rambling on about his past and love for Susan.
Like I said, King could've just made that into a novella.
It was so boring I almost took a break from reading the book.
Despite the abomination known as book 4, I'm still very much interested to continue on with the series.
As Rhea of Coos hobbled over to her table, she gave Musty, her foul smelling mutant cat, a swift kick.
"I'll give ya a tongue bath later"!Rhea was anxious to examine the contents of the bag the silver headed stranger had just dropped off.
“Let’s see what forspecial things I can see whilst looking at this marvelous ball.”She picked up the orb and felt a current of energy go through her tired and creaky limbs.
Rhea chased the cat off the table and looked for the bag with the other orb.
What secrets are hidden in the past of the last gunslinger of Gilead?The questions are stuck in your mind from the very moment you open the first book in the series and read the best opening sentence ever written.
A tale of three young gunslingers being sent to the distant Barony of Mejis.
Well, I’m happy to say that Wizard and Glass saved the series for me.For it is here, in the sleepy Out-World Barony of Mejis, that Mid-World's last great conflict will shortly begin; it is from here that the blood will begin to flow.
It pains me to give this book just 2 stars but I skimmed more than a quarter of it, because I just want to get to the goddamned tower, take a selfie, then go home.
While I enjoyed the tale of Roland's first love and the confrontation with the Big Coffin Hunters, the flashback seemed about a hundred pages too long, like maybe Stephen King wasn't sure where he wanted the story to go next and decided to do some stalling.That's not to say I don't like Wizard and Glass.
It reminds me a lot of the battle between the Earps and the Cowboys in Tombstone.The middle book of the Dark Tower is still a satisfying read, no matter what your opinion of the extended Flashback.
King proves he's a master with all the good stuff in this book, this love story is one of the best.Regarding the famous (or infamous) Wizard of Oz elements (view spoiler)[I thought this worked extremely well.
Pretty please?While I didn't quite know what to expect, but knowing at least that there was a lengthy flashback, the more I think about it, Wizard and Glass is my favorite volume in the Dark Tower so far.
I had a discussion with a friend of mine (the same friend that comforted me when I was reading the final book of the series on my break at work) about how disappointed we were with how the ultimate bad guy kind of went out like a little bitch at the end, but then we wondered if it was maybe because Flagg was never the central baddie of the Dark Tower series, afterall?
Again an excellent and exciting piece of the Dark Tower series but it interrupted the journey in a major way, just when it REALLY started to jump forward.
You will know to this point how many times Roland has put off speaking about his passed to his companions, how many times they have asked him for his story and how many times he has withdrawn into himself, promising that one day he will tell.In the Wizard and Glass that day has come.
Not only does this fill the massive hole of how Roland came to be in pursuit of the Dark Tower, it is also a bloodthirsty story of his arrival as a true Gunslinger.
Yeah, it's happening, finally finished.
It's funny I got halfway through this book in like a day then it took me over a week to read the second half, not due to a lack of interest, more the world around me suddenly got more exciting.
Well, FINALLY I learned about Roland's history.
It's going to be a sad day when I'm done with this series.
This book was a real western romance, more so focusing on Roland and what made him the gunslinger he is when the reader is first introduced to him.
Also, I’ve got to call bullshit on Roland learning all aspects of the story from his time inside the ball.
My theory is that Mr. King didn’t want to write in the 1st person, and simply glossed over Roland knowing everything by suggesting it came from the ball.
Plus, it was stated quite clearly that the ball only shows tragic/terrible events, but there was plenty of good things Roland would have had to have witnessed, to get to all corners of this story.Ah well, the world has moved on, I think it’s about time we follow suit.
We have lost a few of our tet along the way, but we have also gained a few.
Hear me now, gunslingers, for I will tell you the tale!We join up with Roland, Eddie, Susannah, Jake and Oy…oh!
Roland finally decides to open up to his new Ka-Tet and explain to them what happened to his old ka-tet.
One starts to question just how old Roland truly is.
But most importantly, we get to see Roland fall in love for the first time with the ever so beautiful Susan Delgado.
But no, it was bad.See, the thing is that after the horrible cliffhanger in book 3, I expected lots of intense scenes and continuing with their quest, but instead we got Roland's backstory.If it were a character I like, I don't think I'd be bothered a lot.
yeah, I want this to be an epic fantasy quest, but I don't know what to do with my characters now so I'll just write a flashback while something comes to my mind.It's so annoying, and now thanks to that I'm doing something that may appear outrageous: I'm DNFing this, but I will continue the series.
True love, like any other strong and addicting drug, is boring — once the tale of encounter and discovery is told, kisses quickly grow stale and caresses tiresome… except, of course, to those who share the kisses, who give and take the caresses while every sound and color of the world seems to deepen and brighten around them.Oh King, why oh why didn’t you listen to your own damn self and cut the length of the ‘love story’ by half?!This is Roland’s history, and as we would expect it is full with pain and anguish and hard choices.
I admit that I really enjoyed getting insight into Roland; and learning more about these people who have cropped up in the story in vague and undefined ways BUT it was too long.
DTProject2017 | Book 4 What a rideThe 2nd longest book in the series, after the last one, and my favourite; the last one comes next.This book starts exactly where the 3rd book stopped, a massive cliffhanger.And everything that happens in it takes place in less than 1-2 days.Out of the 845 pages, 219 of them (25.91%) are the actual story and out of the 845 pages, 626 of them (74.08%) are the (story within a story), the tale of Roland's youth, the one he narrates to them in the course of one nigh
He isn't anymore the (almost) nameless, featureless gunslinger of the first book (which was actually 5 short stories in one published first in a serial, just like Dickens's books; another great storyteller often compared with King), he is human, loved by his new ka-tet (fellowship brought together by destiny(ka) ) and he loves them back.
I love them too.We will rendezvous again in the 5th book, by the end of May, when the sun will be brighter and hotter, when the story will be darker and colder.Oh, and Mr KingI'm your number one fan *smiles*If you ever end up in my house I will force you to bring back Susan.
Read this series years ago, great books. Just watched the film with Idris Alba too.The film is actually quite good. 🐯👍
well, except my only complaint about the book (view spoiler)[ the villains, for the most part, meet their ends without that feeling of a final conflict where the heroes' lives balance on a tightrope (in short, they died too easily - Jonas, Lengyll, Depape, Thorin, Rimer, Reynolds (somewhere down the line) and the Tick-Tock Man (who had so much potential) in the main story line, resurrected for absolutely nothing - only Latigo really had that struggle).
It makes me want to re-read the Gunslinger, the portions that pertain to people in Roland sees in the glass.
This book is immense, epic and a beautifully told story of love and loss.
If you are reading this, you most likely already know that Wizard and Glass is the 4th installment in Stephen King's epic fantasy series, The Dark Tower.
In this book we hear an incredible tale of the early life of Roland of Gilead.
King is the master of character development and this story is no different.
This book is completely different than the other books in the series but what a tale.
I am absolutely in love with it.
I am ditching this audio re-read of Wizard and Glass. This narrator is just not for me. I'm going to go ahead and reserve the next book in the series, because the narration goes back to George Guidall. He did the audiobook of The Gunslinger and I just loved it. I will leave my rating as it stands, as I did so love this book.
I think that's my biggest complaint: this book feels like an afterthought, as if King said to himself, "Shit, I need to toss this in somewhere..." and decided to weigh down this volume in Roland's tail with a bloated and boring romance.
I know I don't.Every fun moment of this book is stalled by King's need to follow up with banal characters and world-build a time and place I don't want to be in.
Still, Tick Tock Man's part in this book is pointless, and I'm left feeling as if King regretted saving him in THE WASTE LANDS so he simply tossed him into the fire, so to speak, in this volume.
I honestly love this book more and more each time I read it.
I know we don't get the full story on all three characters yet, but Susan was always the one I was most curious about as she's still so present in Roland's life many years later.
And since it's been so long since I first read the series, reading this book was like discovering Susan's story for the first time and it was just as heartbreaking.
Without it, he really wouldn't be the Roland we've all come to grown and love so much and this series would be nowhere near as good.
The Dark Tower 4 continues Roland's journey in an unexpected way, taking us back to the main character's youth.
90% of the book takes place in this "flashback" story that Roland is telling to his ka-tet.
While some parts seemed to be overly drawn out, it ultimately gives us insight into what is really driving Roland in his quest for the Dark Tower.The story-telling is incredible as Stephen King weaves different universes into one story and setting up what is sure to be an epic second half to his lengthy DT series!
I look forward to continuing with Wind Through the Keyhole (Dark Tower 4.5)!!!
King may be the master of horror and suspense, but his work as a romance novelist is a failure. The main story of The Dark Tower goes off the rails (yes, pun intended for those who have read this) and wallows in 500 pages of Roland's backstory - a young-love yarn with a sprinkling of occasional action that just didn't work on any level. King wrote like he was getting paid by the word (He was very frightened. Very frightened indeed.) - and the whole ridiculous Wizard of Oz story tie-in just smack
The main story of The Dark Tower goes off the rails (yes, pun intended for those who have read this) and wallows in 500 pages of Roland's backstory - a young-love yarn with a sprinkling of occasional action that just didn't work on any level.
King wrote like he was getting paid by the word (He was very frightened.
Had King really run out of ideas and needed to use other's for a book that really didn't do much to move the overall story forward?But now I am committed to finishing this series because I'm kinda hoping the Dark Tower just wipes out all these jokers.
This was by far the best, in my opinion. I loved the story of fourteen-year-old Roland and his love Susan. As mush as King says he struggles to write romance, I saw no evidence of that here. It was both beautiful and heartbreaking.
