https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/129621.Almost_Heaven
This is what I posted at the RF (Amazon) when I read it for the 1st time, and I'm simply copying my post here on GR because I'm lazy and don't feel like writing a full review...Well, I've just finished reading Almost Heaven and I'm glad to say that I'm in love with Ian, Elizabeth, and everyone and everything else in the book.
Ian and Elizabeth were so much in love with each other that it rendered them defenseless, insecure and wary.
5 SOLID STARS ★★★★★[image error]  “Because,” he said quietly as she stood up, “until you walked into it, this was an ordinary garden.”Puzzled, Elizabeth tipped her head. “What is it now?” “Heaven.”  And… once again, I am SPEECHLESS!!! Words just can not express the love I have for Judith McNaught and her incredible books. And with such appropriate titles. Every time I finish one, I want to flip back to the beginning and read it all over again. I am convinced that NO ONE can write a romantic char
Losing both her parents by the time she was seventeen, Elizabeth had been left, along with her half-brother Robert Cameron to manage their family’s estate.
Trying desperately to save her family’s legacy, Elizabeth is left to manage the estate on her own, and suffer the pursuit by numerous debtors.[image error]
But while Robert is busy squaring up the betrothal agreement for Viscount Mondevale’s offer, Elizabeth is off wandering through the gardens at a society party and unknowingly catching the eye of yet another gentleman.[image error]
I do think she left the best 'til last, even though I did love the first two in the series also.
I have already reviewed the book on first reading it, so won't bore you anymore.
I have said it before and I'll say it again, "every book should have an epilogue".ORIGINAL REVIEW IS BELOW ********************************************************Five Heavenly Stars.
As I have said before to those of you who do NOT read historicals, please give them a try.
The three books in this series have been solid FIVE stars, if not more for me.And I got my Epilogue.
Almost Heaven? No this book...WAS Heaven!
5 STARS  There are four steps separating us and a year and a half of wanting drawing us together,” he said. Elizabeth swallowed. “Couldn’t you meet me halfway?”  All.Of.The.Swoons.This. THIS is exactly why I love historical romances. And it's also why I'm currently kicking myself for only discovering this incredible author now. There's only one thing I love more than a good bastard in a romance, and that's a redeemable bastard that's not afraid to wear his heart on his sleeve when he finally see
There's only one thing I love more than a good bastard in a romance, and that's a redeemable bastard that's not afraid to wear his heart on his sleeve when he finally sees the error of his ways.
Ian is known as a scoundrel, a gambler, anything but the titled husband Elizabeth needs.
At first I was a little concerned because Elizabeth and Ian get together so quickly.
Ian is a downright bastard to Elizabeth when they meet again two years after the fateful first time.
But it's no secret that I love the bastards.
Elizabeth was an incredible heroine.
After having her uncle force her hand in an unwanted marriages, Elizabeth is face once again with her past, one where in order to save her home and her brother from debts she was to get married to a rich, kind man and she felt foolish enough to fall in love whom she thought was the wrong man and only wanted her for a quick tumble in the sheets, and with a vengeful friend out to destroy her, Elizabeth’s reputation was in ruins.
But McNaught does it in a way that makes it feel like it's the present, and the first meeting between Ian and Elizabeth was electric - Ian, a more handsome than sin scoundrel without a title nor fortune to keep him in the ton's good graces.
If it wouldn't come off strange, I would write this entire review swooning over just how hot this hero actually is.
The chemistry between the couple was electric - hell, Ian was eletric himself, and there was an abundance of conflict to keep me stuck to the pages.
Going back to other books I've read from this author I feel like I'm still holding grudges against Clayton, Jason, and Jordan.
The writing, as always with McNaught, was brilliant, and even though I found Elizabeth's character (unlike other McNaught's more interesting heroines) shallow and predictable, the story was interesting enough to keep me engaged.
Sadly, the main character's immensely stupid action made me dislike her so terribly, and my annoyance with her idiocy was such, that I lost interest in a book in which I'd had invested so much of my time.
Ian for instance isn't English, but 'brutal Scot' and just because he's Scot seemed like McNaught saved all of her best words and emotions for this man.
Dialogues between him and Elisabeth who is a true gem as well left me in awe, because there is this special connection that I feel most of the time when I read McNaught's books and I don't know how she does it.
Ian is definitely the proudest man I have encountered in this genre, but he as well had something that I hadn't seen before: a happy and normal upbringing.
It's as much a timeless classic as this wonderful old song, whose lyrics are perhaps most suitable for the tale that McNaught unfolds in this novel:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MnUMz...Each time I re-read this novel, I am captivated by the absolute romantic splendor that's filled with angst, comedy, tragedy, drama that befits a soap opera and most of all: a second chance tale of love lost and found again.
The H met the heroine Elizabeth at a country house party years ago during her debutante season and he was filled with insta-love for the beautiful young noblewoman:Elizabeth is the belle of her Season and she received many marriage proposals from her adoring admirers, but there was only one whom her mercenary brother favoured: Viscount Moundevale.
4 stars This is my first and for sure not my last book from this author!I loved Almost Heaven, so ma
Absolutely one of the most emotionally satisfying endings and epilogue in a historical romance (for me anyway).I wish there where more books/authors that gave as much detail, closure, emotion to the ending of a love story's like JM. Loved Ian and Elizabeth and their love story, so touching, moving, sad, affecting and poignant!!!!
Why this man agreed to the arrangement she’ll never know, but she’s about to find out.Ian has no idea what prankster got it in their head to play such a cruel joke on him in the guise of a marriage offer to the empty headed beautiful young woman who nearly derailed him 3 years ago.
Ian because he’s uber intelligent and broody and very like the Mr. Thornton of Elizabeth Gaskell’s North and South.
::dreamy sigh:: Elizabeth because she’s clever and so well read and mostly because she can hold her own with Ian while still remaining sweet and likeable.
It’s annoying and I’m getting exhausted from it all.When they go to the cabin, which is the 2nd day they’ve seen each other, he’s saying they’re half in love with each other and says she’s going to marry him.
You don’t have someone meet someone “special and rare,” someone they claim they’re half in love with, someone they propose marriage to, then have them sleep with God only knows how many women, then have him propose to someone else, and then have him say a dumb line like that, because it means absolutely nothing.
Le doy un 4,5*ayyy me ha encantado, que bonito todo por favor. Aun que con sus momentos de sufrimiento y en ocasiones he querido pegar a los protas pero me han parecido tan bonitos los dos <3
The scene in the courtroom is a classic. McNaught is one of my favorite historical authors because she combines heart-wrenching emotion and subtle humor in all her books. This also contains one of my long-time favorite themes: the misunderstood heroine before whom the hero has to grovel when he realizes how badly he misjudged her.
GREAT BOOK!I got so caught up in this book! I couldn't put it down! My husband even made the comment, "You're gonna be reading that one all day, I can tell." lolIt was a wonderful story. My heart was hurting, beating, crying, and shouting for joy! hahahaThanks Judith McNaught for creating another 5 star story.
After reading four Judith McNaught books I'm quite tired of the similar plots and characters she has in every book.
It's the same characters with the same misunderstandings and same stupidity and the same sex scenes.
The simiar sex scenes are a little creepy sometimes.
And it worked everytime for Royce Westmoreland, Clayton Westmoreland, Ian Thornton and I'm sure all the other McNaught heroes too that I have yet to read.
The best part of this book was probably the little mention of His grace and my darling - The Duke of Claymore, Clayton Westmoreland, who was still an eligible bachelor then.
I loved the heroine so much I actually cried when Ian told her why he wanted a solicitor.I got sniffy about a book.I really did.Weird!I can not write a rew without it having spoils because i just want to rant on and on about all the things that happened.I...I'm so in love with this book it hurts me that i finished it.God...Just...read it,ok?One word about the plot and it would be one word too many.So...read it.:snif:
After reading it all night and finishing it, I started to re-read it the next day, and that had not been my expectation at all.What really hooked me were not the romantic scenes (those are okay), but the twists and turns of the story and the frequent humor in the dialogue and description of characters.
The opening chapters read more like a standard romance book, where we get to know the history between the two main characters.
After that, the story takes a very hilarious turn when Elizabeth tries - in her own intelligent and entertaining way - to "dissuade" Sir Francis and Lord Marchman from marrying her.
Elizabeth is set up by her friends and ends up being outcast from society.
Ian believes she purposely tries to trap him into marriage so he leaves her in ruin.
She believes that Ian has offered for her, so she ends up at his residence in Scotland.
Up to that point, Ian did not realize that the events in the past had caused Elizabeth to be outcast and thus destitute, so he sets out to repair the events, even forcing him to reconcile with his grandfather.
The chemistry between Elizabeth and Ian is magical...and the novel is "Almost Heaven"
I am hopelessly in love with Ian! Elizabeth was amazing too, although what she did was horrible. To put my poor Ian through all that! Anyway you could feel their love, and they did make a great couple. I liked seeing Alexandra, Jordan and the Dowager again too. It was nice knowing how they were fairing. Seriously these HR's are so good! I want to read all of them now lol. Any suggestions which one I should read next?
Yarattığı karakterlere hayat dokunuşu yaparken öyle etkileyici şeyler ortaya çıkarıyor ki..Kitabı okuyalı uzun zaman oldu.
Ancak kitabı sanki daha dün okumuşum gibi hatırlıyorum.
Ama her ne durum olursa olsun yine de uzun süre onlara kızgın kalamıyorsunuz :) Resmen kalbimi fethettiler yinee :)Zaten adam İskoç, yani sevmeme gibi bir lüksüm olamaz :D Evet, klasik bir tarihi aşk romanı.
Her bir sayfasını okurken acayip keyif aldım.
:))Ben yine seriyi bir başından bir sonunda okuyorum yemin ederim :Dİlk kitabı daha okumamışım mesela.
Ama karakterler arası öyle pek bağda olmayınca sıkıntı duymuyorum :)Tarihi aşk romanı seven arkadaşlarıma kesinlikle tavsiye ederim.
The book was a bit too long and some side characters completely superfluous but still pages were dedicated explaining their habits and personalities.This book is still a 5 star because of the moments between Ian and Elizabeth....it was beautiful love story and for that I forgive all the other flaws.
My pet peeve with Judith McNaught has been the overuse of The Great, Big, Terrible Misunderstandings that drive her lovers apart for no apparent reason other than a sudden complete breakdown of communication and actions completely contradictory to their characterizations up to that point in the story.
When I read the first few pages of Almost Heaven, I almost flung it aside to be never picked up again, because this time, she chose to begin the story with a Great Big Misunderstanding.
Hmmmm....It was very well written book, but even this could not stop me from feeling displeasure....I had so much dislike for the "Hero"...he was cold, cruel and dispassionate for the majority of the book and his own hypocrisy got on my nerves!!!He was accusing her for being a woman of ill repute and a whore, but himself was indulging in debouchery sexual escapades with questionable women..even his friend pointed that out... “Can’t say as I ever noticed you took the petticoat set in aversion,” h
Hmmmm....It was very well written book, but even this could not stop me from feeling displeasure....I had so much dislike for the "Hero"...he was cold, cruel and dispassionate for the majority of the book and his own hypocrisy got on my nerves!!!He was accusing her for being a woman of ill repute and a whore, but himself was indulging in debouchery sexual escapades with questionable women..even his friend pointed that out...
“Can’t say as I ever noticed you took the petticoat set in aversion,” he remarked, thinking of the women who’d warmed Ian’s bed in the last two years—some with titles of their own.”
The heady story of Elizabeth Cameron and Ian Thornton which captivates you from the very beginning.An absolute favorite of my sister's this is a historical that is very much worth your time - if you haven't already read it.
Maravillosamente ideal. Precioso
Judith McNaught's books were finally made available in digital format so I snapped up a few of my favorites.
Judith McNaught's historical romances are beloved by so many and with good reason.
While she indulges in the trope of romantic leads jumping to the absolute worst conclusions about each other, she still almost always makes it work.Lady Elizabeth Cameron is a beautiful, young debutante who meets Ian Thornton -- a man the ton has labeled a scoundrel -- at a house party.
Their chemistry works and they have some lovely, romantic moments throughout.
If only the publisher hadn't blown it with the conversion to digital, it would have been a perfect rainy day reading experience.
I loved Ian with his inflexibility, with his brilliant mind, with his ability to put himself into his adversary's mind.
I loved him for his passionate, sweet, total love for Elizabeth.
For only love like that has the ability to be wounded so deeply.
And it was bittersweet to read how Ian faced what he percieved Elizabeth's treachery, how he masked his wounded heart with indifference.
so, so sweet!I loved Elizabeth too.
I loved how she wasn't afraid of Ian. How she faced everything with her head held high.
I loved how she faced him with his same inflexibility when she understood why he did what he did.
