https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/86062.The_Naked_Civil_Servant
What they do all have in common is spin doctors, PR companies paid to tirelessly promote these nonenties as products they can make a percentage from.Quentin Crisp had done absolutely nothing at all (other than being a naked life-class model) to deserve fame, but the force of his personality and his immense moral values brought him fame on the stage, in print and on film.
Quentin Crisp's message to the court was that morals have nothing to do with the law, if you haven't broken the law you are innocent no matter how you want to live your life.
Reading this book makes me happy and sad at the same time, which feels a bit like how I imagine mixing uppers and downers must: discombobulated, and a bit ill.In other words, I'm really enjoying it!So far I'd recommend this to anyone, though I have to warn those who are afraid of homosexuals that they will probably be unable to sleep for weeks after reading this book.
He might have saved me some investigation and trouble later on:There is no great dark man.
Sting [Gordon Sumner] dedicated his song "Englishman in New York" (1987) to Crisp.
He had remarked jokingly "that he looked forward to receiving his naturalisation papers so that he could commit a crime and not be deported." In late 1986 Sting visited Crisp in his apartment and was told over dinner – and the next three days – what life had been like for a homosexual man in the largely homophobic Great Britain of the 1920s to the 1960s.
Quentin Crisp just wasn't constructed to live in "straight" society, and sexuality only sometimes had anything to do with it.
Quentin Crisp is a delightful, smart and engaging man and his book is an entertaining, funny as well as tragic, insight into what it was like to be flamboyantly gay in the early part of the twentieth century.
I was very fortunate to meet the man while in college.
He came to Seattle for a book signing and took the time to meet with the GBLT Alliance at the University of Washington of which I was co-chair.
It was such an honor and privilege to meet and dine with him.
He spent the whole time asking us about our lives!
His book is the same way.
He never says what he wanted to happen to change for homosexuals.
I suspect the true Quentin Crisp love story is that he was an ugly man.
His too Quentin Crisp to be a real person one liners are turned into silent film dialogue cards.
It's good to have both, the living too long with your own myth of A Naked Civil Servant the book and the martyr Crisp of the movie.
Crisp in the book knows he makes him his slave because he never could with the rest of the world.
Although Crisp does nothing to present himself in a more favorable light – if anything, he goes out of his way to make the point that the reader’s approval matters nothing to him – by the two-third mark, one cannot help but develop a grudging admiration for the man.It’s hard to know why this happens – perhaps just a case of sympathy for the underdog.
While the reader may be moved toward a grudging admiration for Crisp’s refusal to be ground down by the prejudice and cruelty surrounding him, it’s impossible to feel any real sympathy for the man.
I first became aware of Crisp from his appearances on The Tonight Show with Johnny Carson back in the days of my tender youth, the 1970s and 1980s.
I later saw the film version too, well cast with John Hurt playing Crisp.
Crisp reminded a staid British public of realities they preferred to sweep under the rug, but he wouldn't let them.
Crisp was not a great man in the traditional sense; he didn't make much money (lived in poverty most of his life) or invent anything, and he could be cantankerous, petty and "bitchy." Even his autobiographical writing is, at best, competent.

Firstly, he’s pretty admirable for his sheer resilience and not-give-a-fuckery - and his whole late-in-life success is in itself a charming story (something he’d no doubt call ‘Rags to Bitches’, or suchlike).
When he says things like he ‘never loved anyone’ or that he and his lover gave up sex one day at the drop of a hat in some pithy, one-line flourish, I find myself not believing the raconteur.
Lines like (to misquote) ‘I wanted to have my cake but not eat it’ and ‘people always buy books about things they already know’ - you can hear Morrissey in them and Boy George (especially the latter’s ‘I’d rather have a nice cup of tea than have sex’).
Quentin Crisp didn't really come out of the closet; he just decided to do exactly what he liked (wear eyeliner and women's shoes, grow out his fingernails) and deal with the consequences of being openly gay in 1931.
He got beat up a lot, but became a kind of cult figure as an eccentric (he was also an art-school model) and, eventually, the star of his own documentary.
Crisp seems determined to reveal the worst parts of his own nature, but he comes off as an oddly cuddly old man.
Prickly, but oddly cuddly.
It’s a phrase which came to mind as I read Quentin Crisps’s autobiography, his great subject being himself and his distance from the rest of mankind.
The tale of how he became one of the great characters of Soho – and “the stately homo of England” – should be a fascinating one, but it’s page 90 before he’s forced to concede that other people do exist and that continuing high-level of self-absorption is wearying.
As it is, there are some great scenes, witty lines and descriptions of attacks upon his person which are frankly terrifying, but this is probably a book to dip into rather than read from start to finish.
A friend recommend this to me as I was looking for an author whose name (first or last) began with Q for a challenge.
It looked interesting so I picked it up not quite sure what I was in for but trusting that it would, at least, be an interesting read.It was an amazing read.
Witty, insightful, humorous at times, poignant, and unfortunately also a sad commentary on the human race as a whole in how we treat those who are different especially if they are true to themselves instead of hiding it away.
No matter what tho, I walk away after reading it admiring Quentin for his honesty in how he lived his life.
But there are odd moments where the infringement on his person is decidely more tender, and at these moments, the incomprehension by society of his humanity is magnified.There is a particularly beautiful and intensely creepy passage, following on the heels of an account of another public beating, where Crisp boards a bus and sits in front of a soldier.
I’m not sure making them read Crisp would help; I think possibly it is a developmental stage to be endured by college students.
This is an especially rich vein of material for anyone wanting to understand the co-creation of "queer culture" by social, psychological, and cultural forces.
After one such instance, a magistrate asked him why he dressed in a way that invited such violent response and he said, "Well, this is who I am and I wouldn't like anyone to think I was ashamed of it." (The judge let him go.) Nonetheless, it is painful to read how at the same time a sense of shame and self-loathing was an essential part of his queer identity.
An absolutely riveting and fascinating read.
Added 11/17/16.
(first published 1968) I watched the film adaptation via a Netflix DVD:"The Naked Civil Servant" (1975)https://dvd.netflix.com/Movie/The-Nak..."John Hurt collected a Best Actor BAFTA for his flawless portrayal of gay icon Quentin Crisp, a flamboyant performer and pop-culture personality who railed against the rigid social mores of pre-World War II Britain, where homosexuality was illegal."http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0073438/?..."The life and times of Quentin Crisp, an outrageous and flamboyant homosexual, coming of age and growing into old age in conservative England."This was a very interesting movie.
Here's a photo of him playing the character:https://sunnydownsnuff.files.wordpres...Here are photos of the real Quentin Crisp:https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/...http://media.gettyimages.com/photos/2...
this was so English.
it was so boring which I find strange because Crisp spent his life on the outskirts: running from the cops; befriending male prostitutes; visiting asylums for the mentally insane and ultimately the story (a la Crisp) was boring and as dull as algebra homework.
he had some good lines though:"In an expanding universe, time is on the side of the outcast.""Only a lifetime of receiving the confidences of unhappily married middle-aged women brought me to the realization that in time, even for heterosexuals, sex is an indoor sport.""If anyone had asked me where I felt most at home I could have replied, 'In the wrong.'"
"My greatest fear was that here I might live and die and not matter.
Just how distasteful my life was at this time cannot have been apparent to others.
A friend of my sister, rushing in where devils would have feared to tread, remarked, 'I wonder what you'd have been like if you'd been a woman.
I suppose you'd have lived in the country and kept a dog and played bridge.' I was too choked with fury to be able to defend myself against this charge.
I have enough dumb friends without them."
Delightfully nasty memoir of Crisp's growing up flamboyantly, confrontationally queer in England before and after the second world war. Virtually every page has something worth reading aloud to friends, be it about his contempt for policemen ("I was apprehended by two policemen disguised as human beings"), his relations with his peers and fellow eccentrics, or the state of being "a stately homo" in general. Definitely recommended.
A brilliant and inspiring story of a man who lived life on his terms no matter the odds. I had the honor of having lunch with Mr. Crisp back in 1997. He was a true revolutionary, in the most ordinary way possible. If you haven't read it, run out and get a copy. Touching and very, very funny.
Marvellous and fascinating and worth reading just for Quentin's views on housework.
This book is a delight.For all it's charm however, the life-story of Quentin Crisp is a great boon to young, and old, queer people who wish to understand the past existence of a gay man.
This book is an opportunity to observe the real dangers of homosexual existence, and observe how far the community has come in terms of real social acceptance.
Quentin Crisp's bravery to come out and be himself in the face of the constant pressure to conform is a marvel, and this young man is envious of such strength of will, and saddened by the fact that I will never meet such an incredible fellow.
The memoir is compelling both as an account of gay life in London from the 1930s onwards, and as an account of Crisp's eccentric and impoverished life.
He witnesses life becoming somewhat easier for gay men, but points out that because he is feminine and wears make-up and hair-dye, he is still an object of contempt.
This memoir is also interesting from an art point of view -- his account of working as a life model for artists and in drawing classes is insightful and interesting to me as I used to draw from life often.
The autobiography of Quentin Crisp, a famed member of the homosexual London underworld for much of the 20th century, recollections of his misadventures and thoughts about life and society.
I am in rough awe of this book.
Crisp is a fabulous, fabulous comic writer, lacerating and laconic.
His observations are pithy and astute, and while his twin obsessions – himself and homosexuality (his observations on ‘deviant’ sexual mores are on par with Proust) – are particularly well-served, anywhere Crisp decides to shed his light he offers valuable insight.
I've discussed at length with a friend about how exactly Quentin Crisp would have perceived himself if he was a young person today; it's striking how his descriptions of adolescence read exactly like testimonies of transgender people in more recent times.
The identities of Crisp and the scores of other men like him were the antecedents of modern gay and transgender identities, combined.I recall reading a comment on a YouTube video featuring Crisp.
I take him on his own terms, as a homosexual/queer man, as it was understood in his time by him and others like him.
I recently saw Mark Farrelly do a one-man show based on the life and works of Quentin Crisp – it was so brilliant it set me scouring the shops next day for a copy of Crisp’s first memoir, The Naked Civil Servant.
(Well done, Waterstone's in Trafalgar Square, for having it in stock some 45 years after it was first published.)I find it hard to imagine what it must have been like to be homosexual in the days when that was illegal; Quentin Crisp, born in 1908, was from an early age aware that his very existence was a mistake.
His attitude to sex seems to be that he was never interested, but went with anyone who could bear to touch him, however roughly or animalistic, simply because it was "expected" and he couldn't think of a good enough reason not to.I know it's like a historical document now, but the book is populated with a cast of characters such as would frequent the more downmarket, decrepit and nastier pubs in Manchester's Gay past; the kind of places where only the alcoholics, bad trannies and rent boys hung out.
In my estimation, Mr. Crisp was the modern "reincarnation" of Oscar Wilde.
Beyond those superficial similarities, Mr. Crisp unconsciously (possibly consciously) replicated Mr. Wilde's quick and seemingly effortless wit.
And yet, even when they were wrong, I find it hard not to find Crisp's convictions endearing.While his writing can be disorganized and overly decorated, the flow of The Naked Civil Servant is never lost for long.
While gay men (and women) are more likely to sympathize with Crisp's anecdotes, I would comfortably recommend this book to anyone regardless of their sexual orientation.
It also offers a lot of insight into Crisp's personality and experiences, and some insight into the state and development of queer subcultures - only some, because it is apparent that Crisp was often excluded from these for what was felt to be excessive femininity.
Like many writers of autobiography, he is at his best when recording personal and extraordinary experiences, or indeed ordinary ones told through his particular perspective.
Taking those comments with the requisite pinch of salt, however, this is both a good read and a first-hand account from an important and interesting voice in queer history.
For years I have put off reading "The Naked Civil Servant" till now for some reason.
Well, I know the reason.
I am reading everything possible about Soho London.
And Quentin Crisp is nothing else is sort of the spirit of 40's Soho.
Not terrible by any means, but I read it with not great joy or interest.
And it can be totally my fault not getting into the book for some reason.
I know this book is considered to be a 'gay' classic, but it is also a work that is very thoughtful and reserved.
Quintin Crisp's biography gives a short account of his being out of the closet in a time when few people were openly gay.
He talks about growing up in the 20s, and living through until the time of writing (1970s).
Throughout the book, he discusses his life in a number of short careers, and his life in London.
Although written with an acerbic wit (his mention of "an actor who played Bottom in more ways than one" is hilarious), this is a book almost completely devoid of people.
Crisp is the only character in the book, and he is first to admit that he has little interest in people other than himself.
