https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11650.American_Pastoral
I was not a fan.

So, when my movie producer friend mentioned that his employer Lakeshore Entertainment would be releasing a film version of Roth’s American Pastoral, I picked the book up (my first by Roth) and I was blown away.
While it is difficult to put Roth into a specific category, the fact that the Lvov family owns a large property – and a bull named Count and herd of cows at one point – and the revolt of Merry against not just the idyllic image of America are some ways that the title could be interpreted as being applicable.
The book starts off as an homage to a man the narrator, Nathan Zuckerman, looked up to as a child because of his athletic achievements in local sports: Seymour Levov, the "Swede." It also presents itself in the early going as an homage to the so-called "greatest generation." But this opening is deceptive.
American Pastoral, it occurs to me, is a ruminative novel.
For me, on this third reading, the book really didn't start to grip until the Swede's daughter Merry's independence sets in and she begins to travel to New York City to stay with her Communist friends.
Forget the illustrious names like To kill a mockingbird, The Grapes of Wrath, Beloved, The Great Gatsby, Blood Meridian and the other works which constitute the edifice of classic American literature.
Even though every one of them focus either on watershed events in American history or relevant socio-cultural issues which form the basis of America's national identity, none of them are so glaringly American in spirit as this Philip Roth creation.
It's like AP revels in its own Americanness and its unabashed disdain for anything that is considered outside America's sphere of influence.
I didn't finish it.
I realized that life is probably too short, and certainly I read too slowly, to spend another minute with Philip Roth.
He's Jewish, did you know?
JEWISH.
Also, he is a man.
Men have penises, did you know?
PENISES!
that are very important and special self-starting things, and when they don't work it is an AMERICAN TRAGEDY, and when they do, well they just do stuff and we observe all of that with some very pretty sentences that almost distract a person from how we're basically not talking about much.
Also women are there sometimes but they are too complicated to figure out.
P.S. Having children is complicated, too.
Girl children especially.
1998 Pulitzer Prize Time Magazines 100 best novelsI read my fair share of books and most of those are "classics", so usually, as a whole, they are highly rated, highly regarded books.
But even with that, occasionally a book comes along that raises it's head above the rest.
This is one of those books for me.
It's difficult to explain this book to others, even difficult to completely understand myself, because it doesn't flow in a straight line like most books, non-linear I think they call it.
They ought to be standing up and shouting, "This isn't me!
It just left me mesmerised.This book is brilliant in expressing emotions if a doting father, passion of a husband, devotion of a son, rage of a man who blames himself for what his daughter became, pain of a man when he stripped layers after layers of lies in which he believed all his life, and helplessness of a husband when his wife went into shock...
So so many emotions I felt through Swede.This is a disturbing, haunting yet absolutely stunning and fantastic at the same time.
Σαν ένα ντόμινο ξεκινάει το αμερικανικό ειδύλλιο του πλαστού ονείρου και κάθε κομματάκι που πέφτει με τόση επιδεξιότητα και αρμονία παρασύροντας όλα τα υπόλοιπα, αλλάζει ριζικά τα πάντα.
Ο Νέιθαν Ζούκερμαν είναι ένας ηλικιωμένος, άρρωστος και αποκαμωμένος συγγραφέας που αφού μας μιλάει για την προσωπική του ζωή τη γεμάτη αναταράξεις,μας προσκαλεί σε μια συνάντηση παλιών συμμαθητών του όπου το ονειρεμένο παρελθόν συναντάει το γέρικο και ρεαλιστικό παρόν σε μια απομυθοποίηση τραγική.
Υπήρχε βέβαια μια προϋπόθεση -μάλλον- για όλα αυτά στην αμιγώς Αμερικανική ονειρεμένη ζωή, να μην αμφισβητήσει ποτέ το δικαίωμα του στον μονόδρομο της επιτυχίας.
But, it was still a hypnotic novel, chock of full of allegory, and is considered a true American classic, by many.
I don’t know how I would have felt about this book if I had read it years ago, but now I think I ‘get’ it and understand why it resonates with some people, but I can also understand why others were left unimpressed.
There is a letdown of sorts as the book concludes, which left me feeling slightly depressed, but the book did give me much to consider.
Το δεύτερο μέρος (Πτώση) ήταν από τα πιο απολαυστικά σημεία της λογοτεχνίας που έχω συνολικά διαβάσει.
Ο αφηγητής συναντάει μετά από πολλά χρόνια τον παλιό του συμμαθητή, για τον οποίο είχε δημιουργήσει μια τέλεια εικόνα της ζωής του.
Είναι η συντριβή του American Dream, είναι η ειρωνεία της ζωής, είναι αυτό που θέλουμε να βλέπουμε παντού γύρω μας αλλά κάνουμε τόσο λάθος.
Στο δεύτερο μέρος που είναι και το καλύτερο από τα τρία, έχουμε ένα εξαιρετικό ψυχογράφημα των χαρακτήρων μιας αμερικανικής οικογένειας, αντάξιο του Ντοστογιέφσκι.
Όντας το δεύτερο μυθιστόρημα του Roth που διάβαζα, η σύγκριση με το Σύνδρομο του Πορτνόι ήταν αναπόφευκτη.
My hero Greil Marcus wields this particular phrase quite a bit in his macro-critiques of music and culture, which was another reason I knew I needed to ingest this text.One thing that sort of drove me nuts throughout the novel was the fact that Merry's political radicalism is expressed in pretty much none other than gruesome, myopic, didactic, knee-jerk, resentment-ridden terms.
Here's Louis Lapham saying this in a much more articulate way: "Some years ago, in a review of Philip Roth’s novel American Pastoral, I argued that Roth had not done what was necessary to get inside the idea of political radicalism.
Roth is famous for his prose, for his lengthy sentences which in turn become lengthy paragraphs.
Roth has the audacity to make so many statements about U.S. pre-911 that he could considerably be called a literary apostle.
Few writers have the balls to go so deep into history, to correlate it to one particular instance of being “wrenched out of the longed-for American pastoral and into the indigenous American berserk” (John Updike in his Rabbit novels, for instance, does something similar to this).Confident, adult, and perhaps too sophisticated—this is what Rothianites like me simply cannot get enough of.
I read an article about a year ago that supposedly describes Philip Roth’s rituals every time they announce a new Nobel Prize winner for Literature.
This novel was not merely a form of expression or story telling, there are passages here that seem very self-aware of their greatness.
It took me two months to read this novel.
To be a little more accurate, it took me two months to read the first half of this novel and less than four hours to read the rest.
At its best this is up there among the great American novels.

Εκείνο που η πένα του μεγάλου συγγραφέα ανασύρει στο "Αμερικάνικο ειδύλλιο" είναι το ανθρώπινο δράμα, η εκδίκηση που παίρνει η πραγματικότητα επάνω στα όνειρα, η αδυναμία ουσιαστικής επικοινωνίας, η αγεφύρωτη ετερότητα, και τα τρομακτικά της αποτελέσματα σε ψυχές και σώματα.
Αυτός ο Roth που αγαπώ, ο εμμονικός με την εβραϊκή, αντρική, σεξουαλική του ταυτότητα, με τους ψυχαναγκασμούς, τον αβυσσαλέο εγωκεντρισμό και τα ερεβώδη απωθημένα του, δεν έχει τόσο μεγάλη παρουσία (όση εγώ θα επιθυμούσα) σε αυτή τη σειρά των μυθιστορημάτων με ιστορικό πλαίσιο, καθώς ο συγγραφέας αμφιταλαντεύεται μεταξύ του κοινωνικο-ιστορικού και προσωπικού, επιθυμώντας να καταγράψει την απώλεια της αθωότητας του μεταπολεμικού Αμερικανού.
Zuckerman admires Swede, his high school hero, but finds that the perfect northeastern Jew turned American Dream had a daughter, Merry, who was not so merry, who at 16 had joined an organization much like Weathermn, an initially violent offshoot of the SDS, and she bombs a local post office, killing a local physician, goes underground.
Zuckerman, as with other people you don't seem to like based on biographies and People magazine, set Roth aside and read Zuckerman; this is a work of fiction.
Overwritten, self-indulgent version of Paradise Lost I have mixed feelings about this 1998 Pulitzer Prize winning book. On one hand, I am enamoured with the power and grandness of the story, which is brought out by zoning in on one man, Seymour "The Swede" Levov. He is the beautiful American archetype, living in an idyllic countryside... then all goes to shit. His daughter Merry baffles and betrays all that he is when she becomes an uncontrollable teenager who resorts to acts of terrorism in pr
Huge statements about what it is to be American, to be human, to be unknowable and unknowing (yes, this veers heavily to the pessimistic side) are made, painted in wild, thick, black strokes over the pastoral scenery.BUT:My brain hurt, often, slogging through what I can only describe as overwritten, self indulgent, sometimes even boring ramblings.
The beginning, which was told from the point of view of "Skip" Zuckerman, the writer and huge admirer of the Swede, was especially painful and bombastic.That being said, I am glad to have read it (and finished it), and many parts of this book were compelling and magnificent so I think it was worth it.
Should be a five star book and would have been with a good editor. As it stands Roth’s self-pleasuring digressions, his pedantic cataloging of sideshow detail kept spoiling it for me. Still a brilliant achievement but there were times when I wished Saul Bellow had written it.
Il diritto di lasciare“Sua figlia era una folle assassina che si nascondeva sul pavimento di una stanza di Newark, sua moglie aveva un amante che fingeva di scoparla sopra il lavandino della cucina, la sua ex amante aveva portato coscientemente la sua famiglia al disastro e lui stava cercando di ingraziarsi suo padre spaccando il capello in quattro”.Non c'è nulla di male nell'essere deboli come Seymour Levov, Lo Svedese.
Roth is a master storyteller and wordsmith.The NY Times listed American Pastoral as one of the best works of American fiction written in the past 25 years, and I agree.
Maybe it greatly resonated with me just because of what my life has been like for the past couple of years, but I think that there is something universal about it, too.
The true marvel and magic of this book is that a reader like me cannot help but empathize with the main character, a person who epitomizes The Man in every way.
And the fact that the Swede spent his tour as a recreation specialist/drill instructor/basketball-/baseball-player hardly a reflection on his achievements or reputation in the Marines, rather an unavoidable result of the effects of Little Boy and Fat Man on two Japanese cities only two months after his enlistment.Swede’s father Lou did have to make a visit to Parris Island, to undue a rash engagement that his son had made to marry the Irish Catholic daughter of a marine major, so allowing the Swede to return home in ’47 at twenty unencumbered by a Gentile wife, and draped with the glamour of having made his mark as a Jewish Marine.All this we know for certain, since the aged Zuckerman, recalling those years of the forties, relates it all in barely the first ten pages of his story, recalling too meeting the Swede and his son Chris at a Mets game almost thirty years later, in 1985, that skinny, fair-haired boy of seven or eight years standing by as the Swede immediately guesses the identity – "You’re Zuckerman?
Having just completed my reread of American Pastoral, I want to begin my updated review in an unusual way, with two quotes from authors that are not Philip Roth:Tornadoes are a good metaphor for how bad things happen in our lives.
Next thing you know, we had gotten the paperback and downloaded the audio from the library and were reading it.Original review from my first read circa 2010The name, American Pastoral, stands for the illusion this child of immigrants had about America--that it was a place that if you lived right and worked hard, you would reap what you sowed.
That means we've probably moved on from the more frolicsome and destructive rebellions and moved on to explore more complicated ideologies than marxism or Jainism, but he fact remains that this book is placing all our attention and energies on the many masks we wear and showing us how untenable our polite fictions really are while spending the entire book trying to convince us that the Swede, the All-American Boy, the industry leader, the devoted father, the all-around decent and intelligent guy, is in fact a tragic character, the straw man representing America, itself.I liked this novel.
Swede's Worst Nightmare: Detonating Daughter, Disintegrated Marriage Weather Underground Motto, quoted in American Pastoral "We are against everything that is good and decent in honky America. We will loot and burn and destroy. We are the incubation of your mothers' nightmares."  *4.4 stars*The most popular guy in Newark's Weequahic High School Class of 1945, Seymour "Swede" Levov, who was the school's star athlete in 3 sports, was called Swede due to his blonde hair, blue eyes and Nordic looks
He has set up, he believes, the perfect American life in a big house in an idyllic town with a gorgeous wife and a cute daughter.
In 1968, at 41, Swede's American Pastoral life is blasted to smithereens when Merry, then only 16, bombs the local post office in protest against American intervention in Vietnam, and goes permanently into hiding.
The story primarily relates to the 5 years between the bombing and this meeting and it culminates in a 1973 dinner party with guests from local social circles and results in another explosion in Swede's life, figuratively speaking, nearly as big as the one in 1968.
Reasons are in books.” ― Philip Roth, American PastoralJeffery Pugh's Tree HuggersWow. I remember reading Underworld and thinking, "why didn't it win more awards?" Perhaps, it is simply the small issue of it was published in the same year as 'American Pastoral'.
I think I liked Underworld a little better, but I'd need to seriously review the film tape to be sure.
I'm still not sure if I think AP or U is better, and it has been over 5 years.
I rarely re-read novels, but I'm thinking I'm going to have to dig back into this one.
It is a book about something an author (who is a character in the novel) imagines to have taken place.
I would have never criticized the book had it not been so relentlessly hyped (having been placed in the New York Times top-10 books of the last 25 years list), Roth so exalted, and American Pastoral so invariably cited as his magnum opus.I found the ending disappointing, but by that time I had already been let down and was completing a chore.
The central theme of this book concerns a father’s love for his daughter who commits a reprehensible deed, a misdeed that is scarcely forgivable.
Political dissent and the view that the grounding principles structuring society seemed to be crumbling characterize the era and the book.In 1985, Seymour asks Nathan Zuckerman, an author who had been his younger brother’s childhood friend, to write about the family.
I have given the narration three stars.Although I like the way the parent / daughter relationship is drawn, the book becomes unwieldy and is way too long.
A questo punto mi toccherà riconsiderare le cinque stelle attribuite finora.C'è tutto: il percorso di un uomo, la storia della famiglia e dei singoli componenti e poi la Storia, l'evolversi di una nazione e della sua cultura: il dissolversi del sogno americano.E' stata una delle riletture più illuminanti mai fatte, esiste davvero il tempo giusto per ciascun libro.
Cosa c'è da aggiungere se non questo?"Come penetrare nell'intimo della gente?
Era una dote o una capacità che non possedeva.
Prendeva per buono chi lanciava i segnali della bontà.
Prendeva per leale chi lanciava i segnali della lealtà.
Prendeva per intelligente chi lanciava i segnali dell'intelligenza.
Cos'era, lui, spogliato di tutti i segnali che lanciava?
La gente, dappertutto, si alzava in piedi urlando: - Questa persona sono io!
Questa persona sono io!
Avrebbero dovuto alzarsi e gridare: - Questa persona non sono io!
- Questa persona non sono io!
- Questa persona non sono io!
