https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/49609.The_Antipope
Some of his tales are placed in quite separate realms, like the hysterical "Hollow Chocolate Bunnies Of The Apocalypse," but a good deal of them circle around Brentford, England.This particular tale is the first book in the Brentford Series - a loose collection of stories surrounding the rogues, madmen, shysters, and others average citizens who frequent the local pub known as The Swan.
Eventually the bad guy is defeated, and everyone goes back to drinking in vast quantities once more.If you can warp your skull around the sheer nonsense presented in this book and enjoy it, you love the next few in the series.
Rankin's writing reminds me of Adams' beautifully constructed sentences and the (overarching) plot involves some end of the world Revelations good vs evil stuff.
Once I realized that this wasn't going to be as fast-paced as I was hoping (I also picked this up because I just finished the latest entries in both the Dresden Files and the Laundry Files and was trying to fill a snarky urban fantasy hole) and I slowed down to the pace of life with Jim Pooley, John Omally, and the other regulars in The Flying Swan I really enjoyed it, and I can't wait to read more.EDIT: Also, what is it with British humourists (I had to put the 'u' in because they're British) and their inability to write a trilogy with only three books?
Overall - 4 starsStory - 4 starsNarration - 4.5 stars● Fun narration of a crazy story with corny/funny sfx.● Made me ROFL several times.● Weird happenings in a weirder town with interesting characters.● First in a series.● Recommended if you like "different"
The Antipope is the first of the 7 books which make up the Brentford Trilogy (quite) and introduces us to Pooley and Omally, the part time barman Neville, Norman the shopkeeper, the mystical Soap Distant and Professor Slocombe, master of the deadliest art of Dimac. Hilarious, original and spawn to many sequals. Brilliant!
This was a re-read. I had fond memories and was in the mood for something comfortable and vaguely familiar.Rarely in this situation does anything live up to first impressions and this is no exception. Maybe I’m being unfair, I did enjoy it (again) and enough to download another of Mr Rankin’s tales. All I have read are written well enough and the humour – whilst sometimes a little strained – allows you to journey through with a fairly constant smile on your mug.Worth the effort!
I read and liked a Robert Rankin book when I was a kid.
Sadly it turns out to be a hopeless mess of a story, one that feels amateurish throughout with stilted dialogue and non-existent characters.
I can only surmise that Rankin's talent would increase with the amount of books he wrote.The storyline is centred around a centuries-dead Pope coming back to Earth and a bunch of oddball characters teaming up to fight him.
Another annoyance is that the dialogue is very poorly written, with characters speaking like nobody has ever spoken.
This is maybe my fifth Rankin book, and I'm pleased to see that I needn't have worried about continuity when reading the books out of order. He's been accused of writing the same book over and over, but it's a damn good book.
Robert Rankin calls his work "Far Fetched Fiction" in the hopes of gaining his own section in book stores.
I say give him it, or at least space on your shelf.Besides his Armageddon Series, and perhaps the Cornelius Murphy books I don't think I have read any of Robert Rankin's books in order, and honestly, it doesn't matter.
Sure there are some events from previous books that are referred to often in a comical manner, but the events from one book do not have a huge bearing on the event in the others.
Read them in order if you can, if you can't then just read them.

The book focuses on each of the characters well and keeps them consistent.
There are an ensemble cast of interesting and weird other characters which intrigue and beguile and in the whole is an enormously good romp.
This is a re-read and I think I will work my way through the rest of the “trilogy” (at least 4 books) over the next few weeks but I am unlikely to read any of his latest works as I feel he lost his way and likes to concentrate on the persecution of the central character in almost all of his later book with very little of the intrigue and mystery that were in his earlier books.
'Outside the sun shines. Buses rumble towards Ealing Broadway and I'm expected to do battle with the powers of darkness. It all seems a little unfair ...'The first novel in the now legendary Brentford Trilogy, in which we first encounter Pooley, O'Malley, Neville the part-time barman, the Professor and the other regulars of the Flying Swan. Comedy fantasy at its best, with added sprouty goodness!
Hilarious!You can save the world if you:a) Imbibe libation in copious amountsb) Master an ancient and little known martial art and c) Invest in old arcane tomes with the ultimate secret to defeating the nemesis. Throw in some oddball characters, a sentient bicycle and the most improbable dialogue...and there you have it. A rollicking good time.
And back to Brentford am I. Brentford, land of might and magic, mystery and mayhem, the promised land of yore.This book is a start (or a re-start in my case) of a great adventure with Neville the part time bartender, Jim Pooley and that Irish cad John Omally. It has epic martial art duels. Demonic beans. Demonic popes. Murder most foul. Love and fiery explosions during cowboy night.
Read this a number of years ago, while I lived in Brentford. Really loved the author's quirkiness and the entire series is a must read for anyone who has lived in or near Brentford. Certainly made me change my mind about the place!
definitely not what most readers claim it is, and that led to a huge disappointment. sadly enough, this is a novel I found so dull and got so bored with that I have no desire reading the last 20 pages. so long Brentford thingy that's not even a trilogy but a massive reading ordeal.
More four and a half really. Enjoyed the story enormously, loved all the characters. Looking forward to reading the next one
It takes fully one half of the book before Rankin gets around to letting us know what the story is about.
And, finally, even though the book is based on supernatural happenings, Rankin gives us no set of rules that allow us to figure out what the driving characters can do.
Because of this, even though the book is a bit amusing to read, I can only rate it at an OK 3 stars out of 5.The books in Robert Rankin's "The Brentford Trilogy" are:1.
The Brightonomicon: Book 8 of the Brentford Trilogy9.
Retromancer: Book 9 of the Brentford Trilogy
Excellent. first time of reading any of Robert Rankin's and was a bit dubious to be honest as I am not over keen on Terry Pratchett and was fearful that this would be another of this genre. I have now read the first three books of the trilogy of eight books and am looking forward to all the others. Jim Pooley, John O'Malley and Professor Slocombe have become firm friends that feel like a welcoming pair of comfy slippers at the end of the day.
I had no plans to read this book, or Robert Rankin for that matter. I happened to be on vacation, having finished all the fiction on my Kindle and saw this available for free on Amazon. Turns out Robert Rankin has the an absurd and funky mind, and quite a page turned for the ridiculous sounding plot. Quite a fun read in the end.
[Quick review from memory before I re-read and re-review at a later date](Again, little memory of it. Years ago I read this... Was this the first? I never start at the beginning so it seems unlikely. Perhaps one or two things gleaned from the title...)
enjoyed this book a lot , suggest u read it alone as u will get strange looks, when u start laughing, leaves a lot of unanswered questions .like well i'm not saying cus then u wont read it will u!
Ha ha ha ha, that is all!Set the pub drunks to defend the world from the forces of darkness? Rankin does the with style, aplomb and surreal humour. Mine's a large please Neville!
Completely random but very funny. Good aeroplane reading - nice and easy, doesn't require too much concentration
Second time of Reading, still Ecxellent!
Easy to read, filled with cute jokes,comparisons and sarcasm. The characters are great and the adventure itself was thrilling :D
Even though it has extremely funny imagery and great characters, the story starts slow and ends abruptly but I will keep reading for sure.
Strange and funny. H.P. Lovecraft writes comedy for the BBC? The town drunks have to save the world from unspeakable evil.
Having read a good few of Roberts works five years ago, I remember fondly of enjoying his "Far-Fetched" tone, characters, story-lines.
It's just a drag of repetitive drollery and self involved "oh this is so cuckoo and zany and out there it must be funny and awarded its mantel of being Far-Fetched " - paragraphs and lines of unfunny inconsequential nonsense, littered with some truly great Rankin interior artwork.
Very much a first novel, even though at one point one of the main characters referred to something that happened "in a previous episode." Rather like Watson mentioning some of Holmes' cases that never saw print, I guess.Threads are left hanging right and left in this rather poorly-hung-together tale; as another reviewer has said, it reads more like a string of episodes from the Britcoms of the seventies and eighties: think Keeping Up Appearances, Last of the Summer Wine and even (geh) Mister Bean.Rankin shares with his contemporaries Pratchett and Adams an obsession with death and the afterlife, a need to mock his perception of some of the practices of Christianity, and an interesting use of language.
Or maybe this novel was just so much of its time and place that it didn't survive.
Зъл папа се сблъсква със смели пияници: http://knigolandia.info/book-review/a...Историята проследява шепа колоритни скици от заспалото градче Брентфорд, които разпределят времето си между пиене и правене на бели, напрегнато ежедневие за пройдохи от най-висша класа.
Лакърдиите им нямат край, а приключенията, в които се забъркват, са от забавни по-забавни – и не е голяма изненада, че при едно от тях любимата им кръчма почти изгаря до основи.
Но това си е дребен кахър на фона на историята, която се забърква около… внимавайте!… петте магически бобени зърна, получени срещу колата на един от злополучните ни герои.
