https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50035.The_Golden_Apples_of_the_Sun
Golden Apples of the Sun by Ray Bradbury is a collection of short stories first published in 1953 with 22 short stories.
These stories serve as a representative sample of Bradbury’s unique and far ranging talent, blending elements of several genres into a cohesive universe of speculative fiction, as well as a demonstration of his mastery of the short fiction vehicle.
The reader will enjoy elements of science fiction, fantasy and Bradbury’s distinct perspective on American literature, and all illuminated by his incomparable imagination.
His brilliant restless short stories set off puffballs of astonishment in my brain, I slept on Mars and woke up in Green Town, I grew giant mushrooms for fun and profit and I was the illuminated boy, Ray Bradbury illuminated me with death, calliopes, mechanical houses, ice cream suits, towns where no one got off, dwarves, old women, winds which knew your name and carousels which drove screechingly backwards.
Of course when I grew up some more I laid aside Ray Bradbury.
How does one review a book of tiny short stories?
Or do I just mention a couple favorites, like the one about the last dinosaur and the lighthouse, or the pedestrian, or The Sound of Thunder, the time travel story that everyone knows even if they don't know the name of?I'm one of the few people that didn't have to read Fahrenheit 451 in school so the only exposure I had to Ray Bradbury before this was issues of Tales from the Crypt where they adapted his stories.
He knows how to tell a short story without letting it get too wordy.
Cuento en 1953 anticipa la adicción de hoy a los celulares y el WhatsApp.Un mandarín hace cambiar las murallas de su ciudad al estilo del juego "Piedra, papel y tijeras".Mujeres bordando en el instante previo a una hecatombe nuclear.Un partido de béisbol entre blancos y negros.Un cazador viaja al pasado a matar dinosaurios y cambia el futuro.La obsesión de una mujer aislada del mundo que no sabe escribir.Una mujer sin fe atraviesa una experiencia mística en una fábrica abandonada.Los quejidos de una mujer enloquecida ponen en vilo a todos los vecinos de un edificio.Un recolector de residuos enfrenta un atroz e inquietante cambio en su trabajo.Un hombre humilde resguarda su intimidad contra de fotógrafos indiscretos.Willie, un niño de cuarenta años cuyo trabajo es reconfortar a matrimonios sin hijos.El capitán de una nave espacial que se empecina en llegar hasta el sol.Todos estos cuentos demuestran la versatilidad de estilos que Ray Bradbury le puede dar a sus libros de cuentos y que no siempre puede ser la ciencia ficción el tema excluyente.

Muy buena recopilación de cuentos sobre temas variados. Mis recomendados son: "El peatón", "La fruta en el fondo del tazón", "El asesino", "El mundo allá lejos" y "La fábrica". Bradbury siempre recomendado :)
THE SONG OF WANDERING AENGUSby: W.B. Yeats WENT out to the hazel wood,Because a fire was in my head,And cut and peeled a hazel wand,And hooked a berry to a thread; And when white moths were on the wing,And moth-like stars were flickering out,I dropped the berry in a streamAnd caught a little silver trout.
Though I am old with wanderingThrough hollow lands and hilly lands,I will find out where she has gone,And kiss her lips and take her hands;And walk among long dappled grass,And pluck till time and times are doneThe silver apples of the moon,The golden apples of the sun.'The Song of Wandering Aengus' is reprinted from An Anthology of Modern Verse.
I'll make me a sound and an apparatus and they'll call it a Fog Horn and whoever hears it will know the sadness of eternity and the briefness of life."  And although he writes of a beast of a hundred miles and a million years below who comes to the horn, to love it, I recalled it as I grew older as a whale and with this one story as child I was able to be horrified by the terrible, terrible things we do to the sea and its inhabitants.
"Cuando uno recuerda toda una vida, parece que recordase más las caras que las manos y lo que ellas hicieron."  Siempre me da terror hablar de clásicos, siento que voy a decir cualquier cosa, que mis palabras se quedan cortas para describir al libro. Por eso me cuesta escribir esta reseña. Las doradas manzanas del sol son veintidós cuentos, algunos cortos y otros bastantes largos. No disfruté de todas las historias, algunas me encantaron como “El asesino” o “La fruta del fondo del tazón” y otr
"Cuando uno recuerda toda una vida, parece que recordase más las caras que las manos y lo que ellas hicieron." 
Lamentable.También se ve un poco de machismo, que entiendo que tiene que ver con la época, pero sigue siendo machismo igual; los personajes femeninos son protagonistas de historias de amor, mujeres que están tan perdidamente enamoradas que no pueden pensar con claridad.
Y por supuesto, los personajes masculinos protagonizan historias mucho más interesantes.
Pero al final, tiene sus historias buenas e interesantes, las que salvaron al libro de convertirse una lectura tediosa y aburrida.
Calentaos contra la noche de la ignorancia, las largas nieves de la superstición, los fríos vientos del escepticismo y el gran temor a la oscuridad que se alberga en el corazón de todo hombre."Una colección de relatos cortos publicada en 1953.
De todas formas, no cabe dude que el mayor aporte del gran maestro Bradbury viene en frasco pequeño.Mi favorita fue El ruido de un trueno, historia en la que una empresa ofrece viajes en el tiempo para cazar dinosaurios.
Esta empresa es consciente de los cambios que pueden ocasionar en el futuro así que toman sus precauciones para evitarlo.
“The Golden Apples of the Sun” is a collection of Ray Bradbury’s short stories, first published in hardback and then republished for mass consumption in a lovely series of paperbacks distributed by Bantam Books in the early 1970’s.
It was the sort of noise you would expect the sun-shimmer to make rising from hot railroad ties on a blazing summer day, when there is that flurried silence and you see the air eddy and whorl and ribbon, and expect a sound from the process but get nothing but an arched tautness of the eardrums and the tense quiet." --- from the short story “Powerhouse”, included in this collection.Now THAT, kids, is a man who knows his way around the language, pure and distilled down to it’s beautific essence.
Además, las "Crónicas marcianas" de Bradbury son UNA DE MIS COSAS FAVORITAS EN EL MUNDO, así que le tenía fe a este libro, pero...
Supongo que se me olvidó considerar que hasta los más geniales tienen escritos normalitos.Lo bueno es que igual aprendí cosas, y una que me llamó especialmente la atención es que Bradbury EN VERDAD está obsesionado con los libros, como señal de estatus, o de dignidad humana, por así decirlo.
Bacán tenerlos, es bueno, la lectura es buena, pero ¿qué pasa con los que no tienen estos libros?
Not all of the stories in this collection of Bradbury's short fiction are great, or even that memorable, but one or two of them will stick with me -- I particularly enjoyed 'Embroidery', which was well-structured and had a lovely final paragraph.
Perfect, even, almost.Even if a few of them didn't really get to me, it's worth noting that I received it in the mail just today, and I read it in two sittings.
Though this book was actually a gift from a friend in celebration of exactly that) but this pulled me right out of them and kept me turning pages.
Bradbury is a master of that space within the science-fiction experience where the writer exaggerates one or two scientific or technological phenomena as a tool for social commentary (“The Meadow” and “The Garbage Collector” are both good examples of this.) In contrast to the rockets and blasters and robots that pervaded Golden Age SF, Bradbury focuses on the everyday.There is a strong, almost melancholy sense of loss to most of these stories.
Regardless of past experience with Bradbury, you will probably find something interesting in The Golden Apples of the Sun. The stories are all short enough to read in a single, brief sitting—but they are deep enough that even the shortest provides enough meaning to spend an afternoon with.
22 enjoyable stories in Bradbury's wistful and nostalgic style--some science fiction, some fantasy, some just plain fiction. The most famous is probably "A Sound of Thunder," in which a hunter travels back time to shoot dinosaur and makes a critical error. I especially got a kick out of "The Murderer," which is about a man who has declared war on nuisance technology. (I often feel like doing that myself.) This story was written sixty years ago; I wonder how the character would have reacted to twits and tweets and mobile phones. All worth a read.
3.5 de hecho
Sólo me ha gustado el relato que da nombre al libro, el resto yo he paseado por encima de las palabras mis ojos, pero no me han trasmitido nada. NOTA MENTAL: Empezar a plantearme si de verdad me gustan los libros de relatos .
pronto reseña completa (o tal vez no xD)
Colección de 22 cuentos o historias cortas de temática variada, algunos muy buenos otros no tanto.Mi favorito ha sido "La fruta en el fondo del tazón", digno del mismísimo Poe.
Čávo mi príde ako Heminway vedeckej fantastiky. Jednoduchá, ale zároveň literárna reč; poviedky často bez vyslovenej pointy, ale s o to väčším posolstvom či vnútorným pnutím a živými postavami. Veľmi ovplyvnil môj pohľad na to, ako má/by mohla vyzerať emocionálne nabitá, civilná fantastická poviedka.
*Arada çok iyi olan hikayeler vardı.
İsimlerini verip kısa bir şekilde bahsedeyim.-Bir Gök GürültüsüZaman yolculuğunu konu edinen en ünlü, herkesin bir kez okumasını temenni ettiğim bir öyküsü.
Başarısız olduğu su götürmez ama izlenebilir.-Sis DüdüğüZamanın en gerisinden tarih öncesi çağlardan gelen bir ziyaretçinin gergin bir hikayesi.
Yalnızlığın en güzel anlatıldığı hikayelerdendir.-Uçan MakineTeknolojinin toplum üzerinde meydana getireceği etki üzerine kısa ama dolu bir hikayeydi.-Bitmeyen YağmurAynı hikaye "Resimli Adam" kitabında da vardı.
Bu kısa filmi izlemenizi isterim.
Harika bir temposu olan, Bradbury'nin anlatım yeteneği ile birleşince çıtayı çok yukarı çeken bir öykü olmuş.-Zaman MakinesiGreen Town üçlemesinden tanıdık dostların olduğu bir anlatıyı, kurguyu sevmemem mümkün değil.
"There sat all the tired commuterswith their wrist radios, talking to their wives, saying,'Now I'm at forty-third, now I'm at forty-fourth, here I am at forty-ninth, now turning at Sixti-first.' One husband cursing, 'Well get out of that bar, damn it, and get home to get dinner started, I'm at seventieth!'" A Sound of Thunder: Highly paid time travel companies take people back in time to hunt a dinosaur.
Warning: The following review contains public display of shameless fangirleryThese collected short stories confirmed something I have long suspected; Ray Bradbury is a living breathing writing celestial entity and to me R will always be for Rocket!
I have read full-length long books that attempt to do what Ray Bradbury did in those 42 pages and sadly I have to say none of them can really hold a candle to him.Ok, I admit I quite enjoyed the movie adaptation of “A Sound of Thunder” but there’s something you just don’t do to art!
I enjoyed most of the stories in this book, particularly; "The Murderer," which I found to be so appropriate to life today!
Even though the technology that drives the main character to "murder" is not exactly as Bradbury imagined it would be, it is close enough to make me go "Wow!; "Sun and Shadow," which made me feel guilty about the times I've found life that is on the verge of abject poverty "picturesque."; I also enjoyed "The Golden Kite, The Silver Wind," which illustrates zero-sum-game quite nicely all the while pretending to be a fairytale; "The Fruit at the Bottom of the Bowl," which made me shiver with delighted horror; "The Great Wide World Over There," which make me quite sad, though filled me with a longing to write letters to strangers who live in remote places; And one that I couldn't decide if I loved for itself, or just because it features a lighthouse.
The story is the first in the book, "The Fog Horn."
Una recopilación de cuentos buenisima de Ray Bradboury.Creo que Ray Bradboury es uno de esos escritores que por lo menos yo siento que me hace sentir emociones y sabe como hacerme reflexionar (asi como Hesse o Lauren oliver para hablar de algo más contemporáneo)Dentro del libro se tocan demasiados temas tales como la soledad , el conformismo , los miedos , y uno que otro cuento te dejaba en shock o te hacia reflexionar sobre la vida y la existencia del ser humano.Si fuera posible le pondria mil estrellas , pero solo me dejan poner 5 :( #Putabida.Ray Bradboury <3
Like many short story collections, this was pretty uneven. Fewer than I expected were science fiction-y, but one that was, the story with the same title as the book, was my favorite. I think I’d recommend this only to hardcore Bradbury fans.
These 32 amazing stories will completely enchant and mesmerize you. You will see more clearly how genius everything Bradbury writes is. How he makes his words leap off the page and grasp for your heart, all in a few short lines.
An amazing author, wonderful storytelling - for this sentimental old sausage anyway. I wish I’d discovered earlier in my teenage fallow reading years. Would have kickstarted my love of books again much sooner.
Every tale in this book has a deeper meaning, something to say about the human condition, soul. The way Bradbury captures human nature so perfectly is what always amazes about his writing. 11/10.
First we got to catch us a bat.
