https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/432437.The_Nose_Book
This mimics Dr. Seuss's Foot book and eye book. Beginning reader about the joy of noses. Fun illustrations with a simple rhyming story.My nephew wanted to read this for his summer reading challenge. He gave it 5 stars.
Can you imagine a book about noses?! This is the book! While using fun characters and flowing words this book introduces children to noses - all kinds of noses. And why do we need a nose?! Read the book to find out!
Another of the 4 that Marg bought for the upcoming grandmonster. I've never read this one before. Not bad, but not my favorite. Good pictures, but the words didn't suck me in. I do like the thick cardboard pages.
Simple, cute book. Even when annoying noses are useful.
When learning body parts, the nose is normally one of the first things that young children can identify so this book is perfect.
Even though the illustrations appear to be quite elementary and simple, they are bright and lively just like all Dr. Seuss books.
It shows young reader that everyone comes in different shapes, sizes, and colors and that everyone has their something different an unique about them.
This book is recommended for ages 0 to 3 but I definitely thing all elementary school children would enjoy it, especially those learning sight words.
Geared for a younger audience, these books use simple words, repetition, and pictures that act as clues to the text.
Contributors include Dr. Seuss ("Mr. Brown Can Moo!" "Can You?," "There's a Wocket in My Pocket!," "The Foot Book"), Stan and Jan Berenstain ("Inside, Outside, Upside Down; Bears on Wheels"), Al Perkins ("Hand, Hand, Fingers, Thumb") and Michael Frith ("I'll Teach My Dog 100 Words").
Preschool - Grade 1"My Review: Another great book to read as Munchkin is learing his body parts.
The Nose Book is great and it makes him giggle as I point out his nose, my nose, the dog and cat's noses as we read.
6/1/18 Read with Naomi & Julia.
This short story discusses all different types of noses in the world (from different animals with noses to humans).
Various functions of noses are discussed in colorful pictures and very simple wording is used.
This book would be used for very you elementary students and is actually a book which I did not read growing up, but it is useful in helping to teach students what their noses are for.
Overall, the book is very easy for young children to read and is entertaining.I would use this book and then design a lesson plan on our senses and how we use our noses.
The Nose Book is great for beginning readers. I love this story along with The Foot book and others similar. It teaches children that everyone comes in all different shapes and sizes. It's important that children know that just because someone doesn't look like them doesn't mean they are "different." Dr. Seuss does a great job in portraying differences among people and animals.
A successful beginning reader that uses commonality as a basis for vocabulary. McKie's simple, but bright illustrations are attractive and help illustrate Al Perkins' rhymes. At times, the rhymes feel a tad forced, but children are likely to forgive the awkward flow and his use of repetition and sight words are well done. Highly recommended.
PB25I enjoyed most of The Nose Book. It was really fun to read to my nieces and could be entertaining for any child. The only thing I was disappointed in was the end. The writing confused my niece and made her seem completely unimpressed with the ending. It was a silly fun read though and could be a good read for younger children.
I really enjoyed this book. The Al Perkins theme continues throughout his children's novels. The book was bright. This book is classified as and early reader. It haas great art. Throughout the novel diagonal lines were used the most. It represented the gradual incline in the novel. The colors were bright, and the them was consistently happy.
Not crazy about the illustrations, not crazy about the abrupt ending, not crazy about all the animals in the opening illustration that I can't identify. Is that an aardvark or an anteater? And what about the thing with the horns? At least Sandra Boynton gives me an out and has the text explain that I don't know what the Frazzled Thing is.
The Nose Book by Al Perkins isn't too bad. It talks about how everyone has a nose and showcases some animal noses - short, long, etc. Then it points out all the difficulties of not having a nose - with some kind of creepy pictures of a noseless dog. It's a little nonsensical, but not too strange.http://www.momsradius.com/2016/07/juv...
Great great book! I love that it emphasizes the nose - a part of the body that sometimes we forget all about!Being a person with glasses, I am definitely happy to have a nose! Like the story said: "And one thing more. Suppose...no nose... Where would all our glasses sit? They'd all fall off! Just THINK of it!"
Our girls just adore the "Bright and Early" books for beginning readers from the Dr. Seuss library. This one is perfect. Not too many words, but just challenging enough to keep them interested in learning to read. This one is similar to "The Ear Book" and "The Foot Book," and our girls enjoy the continuity and rhythm these books have.
It's amazing how many types of animals and how many types of noses God made. It must LOVE differences.**Talking points - What are some of you most favorite smells? Some of you least favorite? Do you like your nose? Does your nose look like anyone in your family?
This book is for younger children. It would be great for sight words. The illustrations are geared towards a younger group of readers. It would be a great read aloud but due to the small amount of words on the pages I wouldn't read it to anyone over the age of first grade.
Again another Dr Seuss family book enjoyed by my son and myself. Simple but traditional use of word trickery which makes Dr Seuss style books so enjoyable to read over and over again. A very short read but fun none the less.
Of course this is a great book because it is written by Dr. Seuss. It has many nonsense words that the children really enjoy. It also rhymes which is very important to teach children. They can also learn about noses while enjoying the story.
Great book for beginning readers and learning about rhyming words. It has rhyming words that have the same spelled ending and words that do not. The pictures follow well with the text, which can help students learning to read.
I loved this book so much! I had a lot fun reading this out loud and the illustrations are great and go really well with the story. There's a lot of rhyming and I love that. Great to read to toddlers and preschool! Especially if they're learning about body parts like the nose.
I love this book. It teaches children about differences and diversity with using one single body part. I love that the author and illustrator used animals to portray different shapes, sizes and colors of noses.
This book is a great way to introduce children to why they have noses and the different things that you are able to do with them like smell fresh air, roses or even play games. It also introduces different animals that have different noses so the children also learn animals as well.
Super cute book!
Easy read. Sight words.
Cute board book for very little ones.
Aby read this book to Emily
A good fun learning book that all children should be introduced.
