https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/160728.Bodily_Harm
Despairing, homesick, I dumped my small pack on the bed and went for a walk, clinging to the shadows, hating everything about dim, dreary, sweltering, grimy Carcassonne.
You can give yourself permission to stay in a decent place!” I turned around and walked back to the fleabag hotel, grabbed my backpack and left.
Had I been a character in a Margaret Atwood novel, not only would I have resigned myself to staying at the dive, I would have found cockroaches lurking in the bathroom sink, the shower wouldn’t have worked, I’d have shared the mattress with bedbugs and been kept up all night by the exuberant lovemaking of my next door neighbors and the drunken fighting in the streets outside.
The first Margaret Atwood book I've ever read and really not liked. She has definitely grown as an author - her imagination, the scope of her stories, and her character development have grown exponentially in her more recent books. If you're new to Atwood, I'd pass on this one and go straight to the Handmaid's Tale, Oryx and Crake, the Year of the Flood, and the Penolopiad (in that Order)!
Anther stinker, I’m afraid. This book is about a Canadian freelance writer who goes to the Caribbean to do a ‘fluff’ travel piece after dealing with a partial mastectomy and a break up with her boyfriend. She gets mixed up with local politics and things go from bad to worse as the country slips into chaos after a coup. Although the premise sounds interesting, the book is dreadful – not a good read!
“…almost nobody here is who they say they are at first. They aren’t even who somebody else thinks they are. In this place you get at least three versions of everything, and if you’re lucky one of them is true. That’s if you’re lucky.” Bodily Harm tells the story of Rennie Wilford, a young journalist specializing in fashion and lifestyle pieces who accepts a ‘fun in the sun’ type assignment on the Caribbean island of St Antoine. Having struggled in recent months to cope through a difficult spell
In this place you get at least three versions of everything, and if you’re lucky one of them is true.
That’s if you’re lucky.”
Bodily Harm tells the story of Rennie Wilford, a young journalist specializing in fashion and lifestyle pieces who accepts a ‘fun in the sun’ type assignment on the Caribbean island of St Antoine.
Rennie’s story is delivered in fragments, some of which advance the plot while others are flashbacks to her past.
There's maybe ten authors in second place, many of whom (especially Cortázar) regularly rear their heads in my imagination to try to supplant Atwood's place for first, but every time I go back to Margaret, I seriously fall in love again.
More than anything, I love the way that her language shifts my actual thought patterns, or at least my constantly streaming internal monologue, until it sounds like she's the one inside my head, narrating me.
Maybe I'm crazy.
But reading even a page of Atwood's prose makes my thoughts more elegant, more intense, more literary for days at a time.
But the reason I like it the most is because when the future tense is employed for the first time, nine pages from the end, it's a stylistic choice that serves the story well.While reading, I was first reminded of Valerie Martin's Italian Fever and then, as one of the blurbs on the back says, Graham Greene -- there is certainly humor, through irony and satire, in all these authors' works, not to mention their stories of an 'innocent' in a foreign country, with their themes of both cultural and sexual politics.
Atwoods writing style is really the only thing that made this book half decent.
I guess I was so uninterested that by the end of the book, I was only half paying attention prior to the climax so I ended up being confused, but not really caring to go back and short out the mess so I just went with the flow.
I was extremely disappointed when I think that this author wrote Handmaid's tale and while not as good, Oryx and Crake.
Wait, I HATED HATE HATED The Blind Assassin so maybe I shouldn't be disappointed.
And it would have been if we hadn't been forced to experience it all through the lens of a self-absorbed, unpleasant woman who seems to have no interests whatsoever other than finding a man to love her.
I didn't.I'll admit, the book does offer some pay-off in the end (in the last 50 pages or so,) but to get to it you have to wade through page after page of tedious whining about "men, men, men and why they don't love me." If you like reading about women whining constantly about men, this may be the book for you.
OK, this is definitely not the type of book I would normally pick up even at a library where it's free.
So how did I come to read this book, you ask?
Well, we'd been digging around our place and found a hidden cache of books in the basement--gasp!
Books I hadn't looked at in years or even remembered I had.
She ends up enmeshed with the local politics and it's mostly not good.
I ended up reading it very quickly and had a hard time putting it down, which is always a good sign.
This was my last Atwood novel, and it was written in the middle of some of my favorites (Lady Oracle, Life Before Man, Handmaid's, and Cats Eye)- but the protagonist was so disappointing.
I guess she was supposed to be depressed, but literally ALL Atwood's protagonists are, and there's usually much more grace to them.
The island Rennie goes to isn't named, it's some vague American island that has the same general problems as all the other ones, and there's a lot of white girl complaining here, which I actually think is a recurring problem in Atwood's writing.All this said, it's still Margaret Atwood and she's still really great.
Definitely a dark character study of a woman who feels shattered and unable to relate to those around her, or even feel human; not a happy or fun book in any way.
Life is not always happy or fun.
Many male readers might be reminded why many men don't like Atwood (though I suppose those are the type of men who never would have read her, anyway).
It's interesting to see Atwood set something in the Caribbean, since I live in the part (or kind) of Canada where most of her other books are set.
This one is visceral and disturbing, for me.
I laughed out loud more than almost any other Atwood that I've read.
But there's a dark current beneath.
It's a brilliant book; an engaging and frightening read.
Well balanced.
Well paced.
Impeccable characterizations.
Lovely use of tense and mesmerizing fluctuations between past, present and future.
It's abstract and straight forward.
BODILY HARM combines the best experimentation and playful manipulation of form of SURFACING and BLIND ASSASSIN and the whit, insight and pitch perfect dialog of THE ROBBER BRIDE with the suspense and complexity of HANDMAID'S TALE and ORYX AND CRAKE.
Great book!
i *hate* that i hate a book by atwood, but there's no denying it... i blew through this one as quickly as i could just to be done with it. i checked out some reviews of the peeps who gave it five stars just to see if they had picked up on something i had missed, but no. i still think it sucks. and that sucks.
One of the worst books I have read in the last two years. I had to speed read it after the first few pages and to be honest I didn't enjoy one bit of it. I believe this is the last Margaret Atwood I will ever read. Give this a skip if... Well give this a skip anyways.
I'm confused.Maybe this book wasn't meant for me.My third Atwood and by far my least favourite.
I am a *huge* fan of modern Atwood and feel a compulsive need to read all of her work.
Bodily Harm may have changed my perspective.
While in works such as The Handmaid's Tale, Oryx Crake, and The Blind Assassin Atwood seems unafraid to play and create literary techniques to heighten both plot and theme, in her earlier books, character studies comprise the bulk of her efforts.
If written by anyone but a smattering of authors, I would have given Bodily Harm a single star; however, because writing this novel inevitably contributed to her later works, it is worth a second star.
Edible Woman is too long; Lady Oracle, ditto; even Surfacing (which is, I think, the turning point in her novel career) feels a bit like a partly successful experiment.Bodily Harm is likewise bizarre for her - sort of as if Atwood had written Didion's "A Book of Common Prayer" - weird cipher woman character trying to escape her history ventures into a fictionalized and v dangerous Caribbean island, where political intrigue and sexual tension ensue.
Seriously, the resemblances between the novels can't be accidental, right?
I really enjoyed reading the opening with the home invasion and Atwood's wry commentary.
The feminist ideas are still as important today as they were in 1985 and I think Atwood really excels in her commentary on objectification and commodification of sexuality.
The part where Rennie and Jocasta visit the police's exhibit on strange sexual instruments and material was a thrilling read.
Rennie's inability to write and her despondency to anything substantial and just resigning to write about fashion and lifestyle was very Atwoodian but I just don't think the Island setting or the characters there were very noteworthy.
Random man: let me take you on a day long tour of sights you expressed no interest in seeing!Main character: well I hate to be rude, better go!
Main character: well I have no instinct for self preservation and I love to pity myself so ok, woe is me I have to do this.
Random drug smuggler: literally nothing Main character: well I better sleep with him and expect him to love me even though I'm a hip lady who is above all that!
Why doesn't he love me????Random drug smuggler: get out of here.
This has to be my least favourite Atwood novel of the ones I’ve read.
2.5/5. It was okay, and I kind of liked it. The hints of Atwood's classic novel-writing were there but it didn't feel like a complete story. I think the politics of the island were interesting, but not well-explained, and Rennie's flashbacks and stories felt the same way. The discussion questions in my version helped to bring some of the metaphors to life for me, so maybe it was just a little too abstract for my personal taste.
A little depressing at first, but action-packed at the end. This breast cancer survivor (she hopes) learns a lot about what she has to be thankful for while visiting a banana republic, ostensibly to do a travel article.
He escaped the police, who warn Rennie about bringing men back and closing the curtains when she undresses, etc.The horror of what might have happened - Rennie thinks of it in terms of a game of Cludo, not remembering if you use the killer or the victim’s name in that: - Miss Wilford, in the bedroom, with a rope - drives her to ask the magazine she works for a travel assignment somewhere abroad.Rennie doesn’t want to face her pain; she’s lost part of her breast, her lover, and her confidence that she can lead a life apart from responsibility and suffering; these were the defining features of her unlucky mother’s wasted life spent in a religion obsessed small town in Ontario, deserted by her husband and caring for a mother suffering from early onset dementia.She avoids deep feelings:- 'Falling in love was a bit like running barefoot down a street covered with broken bottles' and it is partly this which she finds so appealing in a love affair with the attractive, sophisticated successful young entrepreneur Jake, who will not tell her what’s going on in his head, but who worships her bottom.
I see the prototypical exposition of these themes as appearing in Cat's Eye (although I know it didn't come first, or last), largely because I read it first and know it best, but also because I think it comes closest to being a perfect book (an argument can certainly be made that The Robber Bride is better, but I need to read that again).
Well that was dull.
In reflection, I feel that a large part of my disinterest in this book is that I could not relate to the main character in any way, shape, or form except for the fact that she's female.
Atwood loves to write in a more cryptic style, but I think she might have overshot a little bit on Bodily Harm (or, honestly, I might have to go back and read more carefully).
I would recommend this book to someone who is a little more cynical or maybe someone who has had a near terminal disease.
Atwood places her heroine on a small Caribbean island on the verge of revolution, but this reads nothing like a mainstream thriller.
The action comparable to a traditional thriller doesn't take place until the last quarter of the book; until that point, Atwood builds a quietly menacing mood by showing us how heroine Rennie has become detached from her body through cancer, surgery, sexual aversion and lust.
The whole book unfolds like that, showing you glimpses of the forces at work against Rennie's body, which are also working against her mind.
It was fascinating and even funny (for me, not for the author or the character) to read about things that I found familiar, and to see in print the stories that I grew up with in my house about the times before I was born.
It's hard to enjoy a book when all the characters leave you cold or lukewarm at best.
I read it very slowly to avoid not liking the book because of this.
I'm not sure how people without a similar background would get through the book - maybe the novelty of it.
I still love Atwood!
It's one of the worst books I've ever read.
The only reason I did sit through the pain of reading this book is because it was the selection of the month for a book club I'm a part of.
Margaret Atwood may be well-known for "The Handmaid's Tale," but this book is just unbearable!
I haven't read "The Handmaid's Tale", but at least it sounds like it has a story to tell.
Maybe I chose the wrong book to start off with for Atwood, but I know one thing for sure; I won't be reading another Atwood book anytime soon.Don't waste your time!
I can scarce believe that I'm giving an Atwood book such a low rating, but here I am, a worshipper at the Church of Atwood giving Bodily Harm 2 stars.
This was not a BAD book, but it definitely was not good.
It is overwhelmingly obvious that this is one of her earlier works - the writing quality is excellent, but the plot construction is just not quite there.
I'm left with an overwhelming feeling of "who cares?" which is probably one of the worst feelings to have after reading a book, especially one that is well over 300 pages.
