https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5941233-thirst-no-1
(This review is for Thirst 1, 2, 3 and 4.)For me, this is one of the most amazing books I've ever read (including Thirst 2, 3 and 4).
Others might think it's a boring, brutal and horrid book but I think it's very interesting and a bit inspiring.
People have judged the book by it's first few pages.
In the next three books you will see what kind of person, or should I say vampire, Sita really is.
And by sensitive I meant those people who can't take in or withstand brutal acts like breaking bones, bloodbaths and the like.
After 5,000 years ("I am old and experienced and so sexy because of it"), the vampire who created her ("I had to be made his consort because he wanted me more than anyone in the whole wide world") is coming back for her and that means all kinds of complications for her cushy life ("I am the richest chick ever").The action, when it finally comes in stops and starts, is pretty brutal and saves Thirst from being just another "vampire love story" knock off.The story is there - just buried under way too many layers of "tell, don't show." What this book really needed was a stronger editor who could have cut the three "stories" into one decent-sized novel, and then perhaps it would have had a chance at being good.
YOU KILLED MY FATHER!?!?but hey,I still love you.Vamp me baby!!!!
I loved this book.
It starts off with alsia perine(aka Sita) a 5,000 year old vampire.
She belives that she's the last vampire on earth because of the vow she made many years ago to Krishna.
I loved this book but by then end of it al it become way amazing.
Aturo is one of sita's lovers from the past.
But when aturo became obsessed with her blood she realised it had to stop.
a phycopathic vamire who mulitated yashka to gain his vampiric blood.
I recomend it to anyone who;s tired of the mainstream vampire books and want soemthing new and exciting.
However, I found this repackaging of 3 Christopher Pike novels from 1994/95 for $3.99 on clearance at Borders and I must say the opening chapter was one of the best I've read in a while.
It's a very well-rounded opening chapter with a great balance of backstory setup, character development and plot setup.
Put down the book you're reading now and give this first chapter a shot." She did and agreed.The lead character, though female (a 5000 yr old vampire masquerading dangerously as a teen girl) has a voice that is immediately magnetic and captivating.
Unfortunately, the author forgot to make Alisa a sympathetic character...or even an interesting one.
God knows I enjoy my fair share of campy authors (Dan Ross & VC Andrews come to mind), but the level of stilted unreality in Pike's style is truly epic.
"I do not believe that."Or this:I leave the house and drive in my Ferrari to Seymour's place.
I go around the back and see Seymour through his bedroom window, writing on his computer.
He comes over to investigate, however.
He opens the window and I climb inside.
"I have been writing about you all day."Seriously?2 stars, but only for Alisa's origin story.
Yaksha, the very first vampire and the embodiment of all that is evil, changed Sita and hundreds of others into vampires in India 5,000 years ago.
But there are no other vampires, so Alisa must find out who or what is after her.Sita/Alisa is a creature who has managed to witness firsthand 5,000 years of humanity's history, and has a lot to say about it.
Not only does it manage to give you a compelling and gripping story with characters that are both real and complex--it's actually refreshing."The Last Vampire 2: Black Blood""Then you should never have been born."Sita had thought that she and her companion, Ray, were the last vampires on Earth.
I have read nearly every book in Christopher Pike's bibliography.
I have to say that The Last Vampire was the first of his books that I absolutely loved.
There are 6 books in this series, and while all of them weren't amazing, I felt the overall story was amazing.
I loved so much about this book but the what stood out for me was that she wasn't like the current emo-fad vampires they had today.
I loved how Christopher Pike used elements of spirtuality and Krishna in a way that wasn't offensive to those of other religions.
I happened to find this book on my eReader recently, and since I'm a bit of a vampire fanatic I decided to give it a try. I decided to stop reading it after the first 5-10 pages (my intolerance levels for bad books has become significantly higher after reading the books in my  trash pile ). In my opinion this book is not only badly written (superficial and simplistic monotonous language), but it has one of the most obnoxious and self-absorbed characters ever imagined. It gets old  really  fast.
I happened to find this book on my eReader recently, and since I'm a bit of a vampire fanatic I decided to give it a try.
I decided to stop reading it after the first 5-10 pages (my intolerance levels for bad books has become significantly higher after reading the books in my 
). In my opinion this book is not only badly written (superficial and simplistic monotonous language), but it has one of the most obnoxious and self-absorbed characters ever imagined.
Perhaps the idea behind the book was ok enough, but clearly it hasn’t been crafted out and developed enough.
The Last Vampire- ☆Wow, was the first book boring!
Even the characters were flat and just followed Alisa like puppy dogs.(Boy: You are beautiful.
END SCENE.) I agree with others when they said this book wasn't emotional.
Then boyfriend #1 died and I was like, 'kay moving on...
I didn't care about the characters really, making me not enjoy the story.Black Blood ☆☆☆I liked this one.
It seemed like Alisa always had to take the hard approach to keep the story "interesting." (Why go invisible and slip into the base?
and so on..) Didn't like it.
this book kept reminding me of The Vampire Lestat, but for all the worst reasons.Alisa, the narrator, is a self-obsessed, self-congratulatory PITA.
Alisa, who falls in love in about 35 seconds ("I form relationships really fast"), and then gets her lovers in all kinds of trouble ("I am awesome and worth it").
The action, when it finally comes in stops and starts, is pretty brutal and saves Thirst from being just another "vampire love story" knock off.
this book was one the worst ive ever read..
its just floating.
i wonder if i can float.
i felt as if i was reading the adoration of jenna fox ( would not reccommend it for nothing).
it really takes alot for me to not like a book, like seriously.
but the characters in this book truely lack alot of personality and actual feelings.
but i felt as if she was more in love with herself.
this has been the first bad review ive ever given and it was well deserved.( seriously the adoration of jenna fox was horrible..
I like this book.
Pike's Sita is one of the first vampires I can really remember reading about, and for a few years she really kept my attention; I reread the series, especially this first book, often as a teen.
===The Last Vampire #3: Red Dice, by Christopher PikeAt the start of this book, Sita wakes up next to Joel, an F.B.I. agent she was forced to change to save his life.
The action starts off just a little too fast in "Red Dice." In the previous book, "Black Blood," Sita had been on the track of a psychotic vampire who left a bloodbath in the streets of Los Angeles.
İnanın bilmiyorum.Hadi artık bit, bitttt diye diye bir hal oldum.Açıkçası seri ile ilgili çok fazla insanın kafasını karıştıran yorumlar vardı.
Eğer serinin sadece ilk kitabını almış olsaydım, okuması bittikten sonra direk bu seriden kaçardım.
Elimde patladığını rahatlıkla söyleyebilirim.Kitabı bitireseye kadar resmen işkence çektim.
Affedersiniz ama kadının söylediği 'Seni Seviyorum' lafı bu kitapta o kadar çok yalama oldu ki..
O kadar inandırıcılıktan uzak, saçma sapan bir karakterdi ki anlatamam..
Zaten heralde 5000 yılın getirdiği bir aşırı özgüven ile hafif narsistliğe kayması, Sita'ya katlanmamı daha da zorlaştırdı.Kitapta hiç mi iyi bir şey yoktu?
diye sorarsanız da eğer tek iyi olan şey Seymour karakteriydi.
I’ve been meaning to read Christopher Pike’s work(s) for some time; whenever I went to the library I would see his novels sitting on the shelf.
For some reason, I’ve never gotten around to checking them out.
On Monday I finally forced myself to with this since I have been craving to read something with vampires.
I wish I never would have forced myself to do so—as I was clearly being held back from renting this out for a reason.
If only I had kept making my way through the YA novels waiting to be read and checked out something else instead of reading this.Pike’s writing isn’t terrible, but his stories are.
Wow…..First things first I just finished the last page of this book and I don’t even know what to think.
Can you say major cliffhanger?Anyways, this was the first book I have ever read by Christopher Pike who is the author of over 40 teen novels.
This novel is about a 5 thousand year old vampire Alisa, or her original name, Sita.
You would think how could an author write about a 5,000 year old vampire?
Overall, I really enjoyed this book, it was very believable, and extremely well written.
Things I loved about this book: 1.
Yaksha takes the same vow but also to kill off every vampire in the world, but there is a stalemate obviously: how can Yaksha kill the one he made and loves, Sita?So that is just scratching the surface of Sita’s history and the book summary only scratches the surface of the first book.
We also get glimpses of her life in the past, all of which lead up to an ending which leaves you wondering “What will Sita do now?”If you’re into the vampire books, you’ll like this one.
I used to read Christopher Pike's books when I was a tween and had a serious addiction to them.
The first two books in the series are pretty fantastic.
He lost me a bit in the third installment, but with the cliffhanger at the end of Red Dice, I'm certainly interested in picking up the rest of the series.
I really enjoyed how he includes Indian mythology into his story which makes it so much richer than the original Romanian legend of Dracula, and frankly while this is a tween novel, it's written 1000 times better than Twilight.
Christopher Pike has the most elaborate but amazing books and this is no exception.
When I first read the book in early 2010 I fell in love with the characters.
Alisa is a great character to have staring in any story.
I know this probably sounds a bit weird, despite her history, her cruelty and general viciousness not to mention being a vampire, she seems really "down to earth" in this book.
The best part of this book is it is NO WHERE NEAR Twilight or the series.
If you want to read about "real" vampires, you need to read THIS book!
Χαχαχαχαχαχαχαχαχαχα.........Σοβαρά τώρα!?!
In this bind-up, readers get the first three books of Christopher Pike's series, The Last Vampire.
After reading six of his books - three in the Remember Me bind-up and now another three in this one - I have come to the conclusion that Pike's stories are addictive.
Written in first person, the reader gets to hear all of her thoughts, memories, and fears, and I think that the author did a marvelous job of putting me in the head of a five thousand year old vampire!
There was nothing boring about the main character.The origin of the vampires in this book was very unique from what I've read in other novels.
An obsession that introduces her to Ray, and suddenly Alisa must choose; Ray's life or her own.I did not misremember Pike's ability to have very mature situations in his YA books.
Even in 1994 I believe that with the age range of these characters, 17-18, Ray shouldn't be so amazed at Alisa's ability to use a computer.
However Pike did very well with the ending and I have to say I was very surprised at how the book ended.One thing I will really commend Pike on is the use of an original origin story for both this kind of vampire and how Alisa became a vampire herself.
Non sapevo di cosa esattamente parlasse il libro, ma ho divorato i 3 racconti, questo è sicuro.Per prima cosa, ho amato la mitologia che crea Pike.
Un sapere arcano, dove bene e male sono i due piatti della bilancia e nel mezzo si trova Sita, l’ultimo vampiro, una creatura antichissima, che ha imparato a vivere senza farsi notare.
E se Pike ha reso il personaggio di Sita molto complesso e profondo le controparti maschili sono tutt’altro che affascinati!
E ho detto tutto…Un libro che si legge bene, con una base molto interessante, non volevo il romanticismo ma un po’ più spessore non guastava, questo si!
Firstly I didnt like the characters.
'Sida' or whatever you want to call her, had NO personality and i found myself hoping she died or waiting for her to show some real compassion.
But i look into your eyes and im inlove with you eventhough its only been like 20 minutes into knowing you and i dont give a crap if you already havea gf.' Then when he 'dies' (which i dont actually think he has) shes all like oh no poor poor me blah blah blah, then moves off into her own little world like Ray didnt even exsist.
I actually think my favorite charcter was the bad guy.
The first time I read this I was an immature reader, so naturally I loved everything about it. Rereading it, I don't enjoy it as mush as I did last time. The main character, Sita, brags about how powerful she is, how beautiful, how manipulating, etc. It's not a bad thing, matter of factly, I wish I had her confidence sometimes. The only bad thing is that the main character brags on every single page. Besides that, it has a good mystery to it, but it's not that mindblowing.
Well a long time ago I picked this up an started it but then put it down in favor of something else.
I think it's one of the greatest vampire stories I've read in quit a while.
The first part of the book was about getting to know her and Ray along with some other charters, with plenty of action leading up to the end.
We'll see when I read book two if what she did right at the end was a huge mistake or not.
If you do end up reading this hope you enjoyed it an maybe possibly pick up the book to give it a shot.
Some people want to be like other people, because they think that person has the good life.
She doesn’t care what other people think of her and she shows that.
Yeah some people might think that this book is just like Twilight and that every vampire book is.
This book also made me think about friendship, and hatred.
Yaksha can do what ever he wants to Alisa but she still believes in herself, and she still cares for Yaksha while hating him at the same time.Some people in the real world are not like that.
It showed hatred between Alisa and Yaksha.
I've read this book many many times throughout my teen years.
Using an intelligent and powerful voice, the last vampire, Sita, tells her five-thousand year story of light and darkness, evil and profound spirituality...in this series you will witness Sita's beginning and her end, and afterwards you will walk away shaken and hungry for more.
Pike retains what I think makes these books so enjoyable: Sita's contemplative introspection.
Sita is different from other vampire genre characters I have encountered, in a very good way.
As soon as I read the first page of the first book, I just fell in love with the character, Sita/Alisa.
She does not kill her victims for blood but drinks only enough and makes them forget and leaves them with no memory of it and no marks.
Only Alisa is left.Things seem to be changing when a PI finds out some interesting facts and wants to blackmail her for a million dollars.
So she becomes Lara Adams and enrolls in High School.Alisa is tired of killing and wants to be left alone but not really alone.
She seems the type of person to want what she can’t have which is to be human and be loved.
Live a little in her world and enjoy.Do you believe in vampires?
