https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/175675.Ragtime
Ragtime is just so majestically beautiful, taking on the whole of America between 1903 & 1915, aka the dawning of the 20th century, displaying an intrepid attitude that blazes, that accelerates.It is incredible; an accessible, long meditation, like a panorama-portrait described with broad, lush strokes; accessible unlike Saramago or Garcia Marquez.
It's funny, it's very clever with its use of scales, for everything in literature is worth a mention: from a simple shadow on the floor to the features of the general populace of the great American metropolis--this novel has it all.
"Ragtime" is entertaining, wholesome, very educational, & I would urge every American History teacher to add it to the syllabus.
335. Ragtime, E.L. DoctorowRagtime is a novel by E. L. Doctorow, published in 1975. This work of historical fiction is mainly set in the New York City area from 1902 until 1912, with brief scenes towards the end describing the United States' entry into World War I in 1917. The novel centers on a wealthy family living in New Rochelle, New York, simply named Father, Mother, Mother's Younger Brother, Grandfather, and 'the little boy', Father and Mother's young son. The narrator is never identified.
The novel centers on a wealthy family living in New Rochelle, New York, simply named Father, Mother, Mother's Younger Brother, Grandfather, and 'the little boy', Father and Mother's young son.
کسی که معادل واقعی و تاریخی کولهاس است، یک سیاه دیگر است به نام: اسکات جابلین، که رگتایم را او اختراع کرده است.
او داستانی نوشته، که در آن بخشی از تاریخ یک کشور را روایت کرده، اما آنقدر ماهرانه این کار را انجام داده، که کسی باورش نمی‌شود داستان را از خودش درآورده است.
هرکدام که باشد، رگتایم همه آدم‌های بیزار از تاریخ را جذب می‌کند.
Today I was thinking of the 101 reasons why I love books, the actual physical papery pagey spiney things with words all over them, and one of the reasons was that they're not machines.
At work, of course, chained to the pc - actually it's a laptop on a docking station with two screens, I wonder when they'll add me a third, and although I'm emailing and talking to people all day long (sexy voiced nurses from France and Argentina and Ohio some of the time) still it's all software this, click here, upload that, database, gateway, you know.
They're trying to turn books into machinery.
A wealthy family, they make fireworks and American flags, living contently in all appearances outside the city, Father, Mother, Mother's Younger Brother, Grandfather and the little boy...yes...
The author E.L. Doctorow to mix things up, has an abandoned newly born black baby, found and saved by the unnamed family near their home.
Not receiving satisfaction from the uninterested local authorities, he reported the incident to, and takes justice into his own hands...which causes much destruction , more than the fireworks family ever imagined; to the usually quiet, small town , no justice, no peace the writer seems to say .
Character is the making of that history by immigrants and street people and freaks and the new suburbanites and the Robber Barons of Fifth Avenue and Murray Hill.
The only thing more irritating than immigrants is black folk, specially when they start acting like they was white folk.Europeans may be decadent and always feuding over something silly, but their armies are sufficiently distant not to be a worry.
At least that idea would keep the momentum, the crowds, the traffic, the striving upward, the excitement of 20th century America going; even if the ultimate destination isn't a religious paradise but entirely un-thought and unknown.
خلق يه دنياى پر از آدم، كه هر كدوم داستانى پر ماجرا دارن كه تلفيقى از واقعيت تاريخى و افسانه است، و دوربين روايت مدام از روى يكى روى ديگرى ميره.
نثر هم من رو به ياد ماركز مى انداخت: نثرى پر نشاط و در نهايت ايجاز كه بيشتر به واقعيات عينى مى پردازه، به جاى غرق شدن در ذهنيت شخصيت ها.الکلام یجر الکلامو عنصر ديگه اى كه داستان رو اين قدر مفرح مى كرد، وجود يه رشته ى نامرئى بين همه ى فصل هاست.
01 - 02 - 03 - 04 - 05 - 06 - 07 - 08 - 09 - 10 - 11 - 12 - 13 - 14 - 15 - 16 - 17 - 18 - 19 - 20 - 21 - 22 - 23 - 24 - 25 - 26 - 27 - 28 - 29 - 30 - 31 - 32 - 33 - 34 - 35 - 36 - 37 - 38 - 39 - 40 - 41 - 42 - 43 -
It is the big uncle to late 90s Philip Roth ('I Married a Communist', 'American Pastoral') , Don DeLillo ('Libra', 'Underworld'), Gore Vidal ('Empire, Hollywood') & Norman Mailer* (Executioner's Song & Harlot's Ghost) novels which seem to all bend a little to the wind that blew out of this syncopated, tight, urgent historical novel.
Doctorow captures a swift and direct channel of New York's energy, contradiction, growth, insecurity, isolation as America transformed between the late 1800s and early 1900s.
But I still hold that 'Ragtime' was influential on Mailer's later historical novels and even nonfiction.
OK, so, perhaps Mailer and Doctorow are more like kissing cousins.
Sometime early in his career E.L. Doctorow figured out a great formula for historical fiction.
He takes real life iconic figures from whatever era he’s covering and has them interact in believable ways with his fictional characters.
Anytime killing people is part of your agenda, I like to believe you’re inviting an “Extremist” label to your cause, but I didn’t get the feeling from the book that E.L. agreed.I’m still a big Doctorow fan, but I don’t necessarily look to him as a guide across history’s rockier political landscapes.
The population customarily gathered in great numbers either out of doors for parades, public concerts, fish fries, political picnics, social outings, or indoors in meeting halls, vaudeville theatres, operas, ballrooms."This relatively short novel is jam-packed with a myriad of characters – some fictional and some real-life individuals.
Washington, Emma Goldman and even the Archduke Franz Ferdinand to name a few are weaved into this story along with our fictional characters.
What I found to be the most stimulating was the story of Coalhouse Walker, Jr. From ragtime musician to outlaw, he was undoubtedly the most fascinating of fictional characters here.
I'm not quite sure how I feel about this book.I went back and forth between giving it 3 or 4 stars.
I mean, the content of the book was really good.
The collection of stories, imho, didn't translate into one amazing book.
While the author clearly knew lots of really cool bits of information about each of the characters, weaving them together was a big ol' mess, and the commonalities felt forced.I realize that this book is a classic and was chosen by Modern Library as one of the 100 Best Novels of All Time.
Like I said, the content was good.
It’s a story in which fates of fictitious heroes intertwine with authentic figures of epoch like magician Houdini, tycoons J.P. Morgan and Henry Ford, an anarchist Emma Goldman or Sigismund Freud, who stated only after his back to Vienna America is a mistake, a gigantic mistake.It’s a story about these non-existent and invisible for average American, people: black musician struggling with the world of white man for his rights and dignity or poor emigrants from eastern Europe stayed in slums.
We can observe a flourishing capitalism, an anarchism versus socialism, an American dream versus racism, world of the poor and the rich.
2018'de okuduğum, tartışmasız en iyi kitap.
Tabii bu kitabın bu kadar güzel olmasının bir sebebi de çevirmeni Tomris Uyar Hanımefendidir.
Ne kadar güzel, ne kadar içten bir çeviri olmuş.
Kitabın bende bıraktığı etki şuna benziyordu: Takeshi Kitano'nun Zatoichi'sinde tüm film bittikten sonra bütün ekibin hep birlikte bir cümbüşe dönüştürdükleri bir sahne vardır.
İşte bu kitap, o cümbüşün ham halidir.
Baştan aşağıya kitap budur.
Yazarımız bir jazz tabiri ile kendi başına bir jam session yapmıştır.
Bu kitabı zamanında Can yayınları Ragtime adını "Caz Dönemi" diye çevirerek yayımlamıştır.
Caz Dönemi, tam olarak Ragtime'ı ifade etmez.
Ragtime, jazz'ın başlangıç dönemidir sadece.
Ragtime is a historical fiction with a heavy focus on the history.
Large stretches of the novel are narrative digressions on contemporary figures ranging from Houdini and Emma Goldman to Freud, Ford, and Morgan, but also a look at the farce of race and justice with a heavy homage from Michael Kohlhaas.
Doctorow wants to create here an authentic yet critical look at the transformation of the United States at this time, and he does so with a choking degree of irony.
They were valued everywhere they were employed." Or for another look: "There were no Negroes." and so on.I'm impressed with Doctorow's craftsmanship, but also how he was able to cram so many stories into barely over 300 pages.
Just stunning. One of the best books I've read in a long time. Beautifully written and utterly engrossing, I didn't want it to end (which is one reason I took so long reading it). Very cleverly plotted and extremely atmospheric. The way Doctorow weaves together all the loose ends is masterful. His blending of fact and fiction works superbly well. A wonderful novel.
به نام اوبعضی از کتابها رو باید چشم بسته و بدون تحقیق خرید یعنی زیاد به دنبال سابقه نویسنده و موضوع و غیره ذالک نرفت، همین که دیدی ناشرش فلان ناشره یا مترجم آقای فلانیه، کافیه.
کتاب رو بخر بیا بیرون.به عقیده بنده با طیب خاطر میتوان هرچه که نجف دریابندری ترجمه کرده است را خواند، لذت برد و چیزهای فراوانی یاد گرفت.
بی هیچ اغراق اگر سه چهار اسم بزرگ و قابل احترام دیگر نبودند به راحتی میتوانستیم بگوییم که بزرگترین مترجم زبان فارسی ست.
و اما در مورد ناشر من تنها در مورد سه چهار تا ناشر چنین حسی دارم،
بی هیچ اغراق اگر سه چهار اسم بزرگ و قابل احترام دیگر نبودند به راحتی می‌توانستیم بگوییم که بزرگترین مترجم زبان فارسی ست.
و اما در مورد ناشر من تنها در مورد سه چهار تا ناشر چنین حسی دارم، این که هر کتابی که بیرون داده‌اند خواندنی‌ست.
درست است که نشرخوارزمی سالهاست که دیگر خروجی چندانی ندارد ولی اینقدر کارنامه درخشانی دارد که حالاها حالاها برای امثال من کتاب خواندنی فراوان داشته باشد.همه این حرفها را زدم که بگویم رگتایم ای ال دکتروف یک رمانِ درجه یک آمریکایی ست که بنده‌ای که به تازه‌گی به جرگه رمان‌خوانها پیوسته‌ام را بسیار غافلگیر کرد
non sparate sul pianista Associavo il ragtime a the entertainer di Scott Joplin, brano utilizzato nel film "la stangata" che era però ambientato negli anni '30.
Ci narra un'America piena di contrasti e violenza, di impetuosa e poco controllata crescita di ricchezze enormi, di movimenti anarchici e sindacali e poi la contrappunta, la usa come telaio per sorreggere e scandire tante altre storie, in gran parte indipendenti tra loro e forse secondarie, marginali, individuali, eppure profondamente e indissolubilmente legate alla trama di quegli anni.
Very enjoyable novel of turn of the century America.
The central plot element is a modernised retelling of Kleist's Michael Kohlhaas - foreknowledge of which is not required for enjoyment of this novel.
The plot elements and characters are chopped up and interspersed with historical figures - including Houdini learning to fly an aeroplane and being mistaken for it's inventor, Freud and Jung going through the tunnel of love together at a Coney Island fairground & Emma Goldmann speaking up for truth and justice.
The fictional characters are mainly nameless, reduced to labels.
Ragtime is like most reviews here describe it. A pulsing mosaic of real and fictional characters set at the dawn of the 20th century, when miracles where still a thing. I thoroughly enjoyed Doctorow's prose, while my favorite parts were those of Emma Goldman (of course) and Houdini. I was never really a fan of historical fiction but the man with the strange name made me want to reconsider.
مواجههی اولیه با این کتاب جلد کاملا غیرجذاب با طراحی قدیمیه.
لای کتاب رو هم باز میکنی میبینی که ای بابا، فقط چاپ کتاب سال نود و خوردهایه، ولی مدل صفحه بندی برای قدیمیه، فونت قدیمیه.ولی خب کتاب رو از روی جلدش قضاوت نکنیم!شروع داستان به شدت جذاب بود، انگار نویسنده نشسته روی عرش، و داره چیزی که روی زمین میبینه رو تعریف میکنه.
مثلا آقای «الف» رفت آقای «ب» رو دید.
و بعد انگار حواسش به جناب «ب»جمع بشه، شروع میکنه از «ب» برامون میگه و این سیر رو ادامه میده.
بعد از اینکه همهی شخصیتهای داستان که اول داست
مواجهه‌ی اولیه با این کتاب جلد کاملا غیرجذاب با طراحی قدیمیه.
لای کتاب رو هم باز می‌کنی می‌بینی که ای بابا، فقط چاپ کتاب سال نود و خورده‌ایه، ولی مدل صفحه بندی برای قدیمیه، فونت قدیمیه.ولی خب کتاب رو از روی جلدش قضاوت نکنیم!شروع داستان به شدت جذاب بود، انگار نویسنده نشسته روی عرش، و داره چیزی که روی زمین می‌بینه رو تعریف می‌کنه.
و بعد انگار حواسش به جناب «ب»جمع بشه، شروع می‌کنه از «ب» برامون می‌گه و این سیر رو ادامه می‌ده.
کتاب قشنگیه. مخصوصا با ترجمه روان و عالی نجف دریابندری.کتاب به احساسات تک تک شخصیتها نمی پردازه. اما آدم از همون چند فصل اول با همه شون آشنا میشه و درکشون میکنه.و اینکه هیچ شخصیتی خوب یا بد مطلق نیست تو این کتاب و هرکدوم دنیای خاص خودشون رو دارن. در واقع به نظرم داستان قهرمان هم نداره..فقط کاش به اما گلدمن آنارشیست بیشتر پرداخته بود من خیلی دوسش داشتم:)۲۷ آذر ۹۶
داستانی جالب و بسیار خواندنی در لابلای تاریخ آمریکا در اوایل قرن بيستم . دکتروف به طرز هنرمندانه اي واقعیت و خیال را در هم تنیده است .١٥فروردين ١٣٩٥
Video review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6W9CE...Featured in my Top 20 Books I Read in 2017Considering how often the narrative focus jumps from one character to the next, this should not be the easiest and most addictive of reads. But it fucking is! Ironic and witty and engaging, and so so tragic, Ragtime features an amazing cast of historical figures (Houdini! The Archduke Franz Ferdinand! Henry Ford! PJ Morgan!) and unforgettable fictional characters. You'll read it in one day it's so good.
یکی از بهترین کتابهایی که خونده ام....
Harry Houdini appears when he accidentally runs his car into the rich family’s yard.
I think that was a literary innovation in 1975, I can’t remember, but if so, it is method that no longer has novelty.
There are few memorable scenes or turns of phrase, and there are so many characters, you can’t even remember them, let alone identify with any of them, so the emotional effect of the work is nil.If you don’t know the social history of America during this period, it seems you would be mystified by all the random comings and goings.
اساسیترین ترفند روایی این رمان، درهمآمیزی واقعیت بیرونی و شخصیتهای تاریخی است با واقعیتِ داستانی. فضای داستان از شخصیتهای جوراجور تاریخی و غیرتاریخی، اصلی و فرعی، سیاسی و غیرسیاسی آکنده و آشوبناک شده است. حادثههای تاریخی و تخیلی در این رمان آنچنان هنرمندانه در هم تنیده شدهاند که در پایان، در سرشت حقیقت تاریخی تردید افکنده میشود. شخصیتهایی چون پیر مورگان، هنری فورد، هری هودینی، اِما گُلدمن، هری کیتو، ایولین نسبیت و رابرت پیری کسانیاند که هویت تاریخی دارند و در این داستان نقشهایی ایفا کردهاند. در
اساسی‌ترین ترفند روایی این رمان، درهم‌آمیزی واقعیت بیرونی و شخصیت‌های تاریخی است با واقعیتِ داستانی.
در مقابل این شخصیت‌های تاریخی، شخصیت‌هایی گم‌نام و ناشناخته وجود دارند که بار اصلی روایت بر دوش آن‌ها است؛ شخصیت‌هایی که در بافت داستانی اثر هم عمدتاً بی‌نام و بی‌هویت‌اند و با عنوان‌هایی چون «پدر»، «مادر»، «پسر» و «برادرکوچکه» از آن‌ها یاد می‌شود.
پرداختن به شخصیت‌های پردامنه و پرشمار تا میانه‌های داستان هم‌چنان خصیصه‌ی غالب این اثر است و مخاطب سرنخ اصلی روایت را هنوز نمی‌تواند به‌درستی بازشناسد و به‌دست گیرد.
آزادی‌خواهی و کوشش برای برپایی عدالت و رفع نژادپرستی و تبعیض‌های نژادی، پیام اصلی این داستان است.
When we read history books, we are given a rather wide view of a tapestry of interconnected events: what Doctorow did with "Ragtime" is to take a magnifying glass to that intricate tapestry to give the reader a much, much closer look at some events that we thought we were familiar with.
As such, it's a bit hard to summarize: we follow some episodes of the lives of a Upstate New York family and how their existence is linked to such famous figures as Harry Houdini, Henry Ford, Emma Goldman, Evelyn Nesbit, Sigmund Freud, etc.The writing style is very simple and clean, which makes "Ragtime" a fast read, and it also strikes a very pleasant storytelling tone.
The novel revolves around the fortunes of three families; a white family who are unnamed and referred to as father, mother and mother's younger brother, a jewish family and a black family.
There is an undercurrent of radicalism in the novel and a strong sense of the injustice of society.
There are similar counterpoints in the Jewish and white families which gives the novel real strength.
Ragtime is full of life and energy and you get a palpable sense of everything moving in almost double time, like an old black and white film of the time.
This is a fantastic work of historical fiction.
My (somewhat stricter than other people's) definition of historical fiction is a novel in which historical figures not only play a part, but interact with the fictional characters in the story.
I don't have a large amount of background on the historical figures in the novel, but I read up a little on them and it became clear to me how well Doctorow had fit his fictional characters into their lives.
In short, I'm really impressed with Doctorow's writing style and choice of subject, and I look forward to reading more of his work.
Το ραγκ της αυτοκτονίας".Με αυτό το βιβλίο γνώρισα αυτόν τον σπουδαίο συγγραφέα πρίν πολλά χρόνια κ στο πλαίσιο του προσωπικού προτζεκτ να διαβάσω όλα τα βιβλία του με χρονολογική σειρά, το ξαναέπιασα αν κ θυμόμουν αρκετά καλά την υπόθεση, γεγονός που με οδήγησε βέβαια σε ένα μίνι βιβλιοβάλτο γιατί μετά απ΄τα ένα αρκετά πλούσιο αναγνωστικό τρίμηνο δεν ήθελα ούτε να ακουμπήσω βιβλίο.
