https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13562049-sweet-tooth
It seems that there could hardly be a better foundation for a new beginning, especially given that our mutual attraction remains entirely intact.As for the proposed jointly-authored "novel" (at least that’s how I interpreted your letter's penultimate sentence), I emphatically don't want any future of ours to be haunted by such a book, especially not one that bears either of our names as an author.
Even those parts of the manuscript that your letter describes as necessary inventions have the ring of complete verisimilitude.
And should the altered manuscript's plot be deemed too close to whatever facts remain publicly undisclosed about Sweet Tooth, its publication could be delayed until a more propitious moment arrived.
She's a math major who is terrible at her math studies, she's a passionate reader who likes pulp fiction and women writers (really - McEwan throws in that she likes Drabble and Byatt in addition to romance novels - quite a dig given that she's such a bad reader), eschewing the intellectuals of the day (Gaddis, Borges) because she only likes books that reflect real life back to her.
As for the eventual hero of the piece, the most fun McEwan has all book is making up short stories for our fictional writer to have written -- twist endings and moral deviance -- lots of "clues" for the attentive reader (unlike Serena)to dig into.
I've read all of McEwan's short stories and novels, and it's only now that I can see why his endings bother some readers (including readers like his main character, Serena).
And if you are a different, and certain, kind of reader (one unlike Serena) you will have criticisms of his narratorial voice, but at the end, McEwan has an answer for every single one of them -- from why Serena sounds the way she does to those paddings of the backward glance (quote from the book).
And sad is the case of Tony Canning, one of the most interesting subplots - the one that could have turned this book from writer's folly into legit thriller: his story dead-ends with nothing but a nosebleed to show for all the trouble.I'm equivocating - I can't quite commit to saying that I think Sweet Tooth is a great book - I found it a bit too smug to buy a theme of the power of literature (as some reviews have claimed) - there was too much stifled laughter and indulgent sweet (tooth) ness for something so grand.
My introduction to the fiction of Ian McEwan is Sweet Tooth, the author's 2012 literary thriller that aroused my senses like spying on an attractive woman in a London used bookstore might (while on a diplomatic mission, of course).
Sweet Tooth needs an author of Serena's generation and Max has one who they want to recruit: Thomas Haley, pursuing a doctorate in literature in Brighton.
Scattered showers like this build across the book until McEwan confronts the reader with (view spoiler)[who is even telling the story that we're reading (hide spoiler)].
If one blocks out all the chatter about Cold war politics, Soviet persecution of academics, writers and journalists, Britain and MI5's almost sycophantic willingness to please America at all costs, what remains is an ode to the spirit of creative freedom.
Because in course of the narrative, the 'Sweet Tooth' project derails and its key objectives of fuelling anti-Communist propaganda fail spectacularly when Tom ends up writing an award-winning novella denouncing a Capitalist world order.Thus what McEwan seems to want to highlight here is the conflict between the political establishment of any country and its literary and academic circles.
I elected to listen to the audiobook narrated by Juliet Stevenson, as it was cheaper for me to acquire than the text version and I knew from past experience that whatever the novel was like, Stevenson’s narration would be superb.
For much of the novel I didn't like Serena very much, but I developed sympathy for her as the narrative progressed.Tom Haley is also interesting, in part because McEwan gave the character much of his own background.
Until I decide which novel really is McEwan’s best work.
The novel is quite engrossing and I prefer it to much of McEwan's later works, yet somehow it did not quite get the recognition that they did.Sweet Tooth is narrated by Serena Frome (rhymes with Plume) and takes place in Britain of the 1970's.
"Sweet Tooth" is the codename the MI5 gave Thomas Halley, a rising British writer, and Serena is employed to evaluate him and if he gains her approval to carry out the operation.While McEwan is without a doubt an author known to write good prose, the novel falls a bit short in terms of storytelling - and at the same time it does not.
If you want to read an Ian McEwan novel, choose a different one!
At one point, the main character tells her boyfriend (a doppleganger for McEwan) that she doesn't like tricks in books.
"I like life as I know it recreated on the page," she says.
Her boyfriend/McEwan replies, "it isn't possible to recreate life on the page without tricks."There are tricks in this story, but they seemed tired and worn thin to me.
It felt like McEwan was trying to be too clever, and the plot suffered because of it.
(I assume "Lunar" is as successful as this one in ungluing its reputation from McEwan, A.A.*)An MI5 literary-division spy affects the writing of her charge, a writer of the revolution; she gives him suggestions and becomes in a sense, cowriter.
(Oh, you've read enough stories like this to know where this is goin'...) But then the tide changes by the end, in the fabulous style of his most famous novel by the end of "Sweet Tooth," a too-confident story by the English writer who knows how much debt the reader owes his writer...
(This one belongs under the Writer-as-Messiah novels: Amsterdam, Atonement--so yeah, basically his best ones.)*A.A. After "Atonement"
Thanks for nothing, Ian McEwan.I really don't appreciate (view spoiler)[ the mindfuck. (hide spoiler)]Yes, yes, you're very clever.Two stars because the writing is good and I liked the story.Minus three stars for being a jerk.I'm NOT ENJOYING this recent obsession with(view spoiler)[ meta, (hide spoiler)] authors dearest....UPDATE 10/06/2014: On a more personal level, I was enjoying the heck out of the book and psychoanalyzing the main character. I was pleased as punch at how cold and even exhib
(hide spoiler)]Yes, yes, you're very clever.Two stars because the writing is good and I liked the story.Minus three stars for being a jerk.I'm NOT ENJOYING this recent obsession with(view spoiler)[ meta,  (hide spoiler)] authors dearest....UPDATE 10/06/2014: On a more personal level, I was enjoying the heck out of the book and psychoanalyzing the main character.
Then imagine my devastation and distress when I realized (view spoiler)[ that the reason she was acting this way and the reason she was portrayed this way was because a MAN was writing and interpreting her actions.
I thought I had really found an amazing, interesting female main character - and written by a male author, no less!
(That said, I have met him and, for a gentleman of a certain age, he is quite attractive, and I dare say, not poor.) Each page of his books, and Sweet Tooth is no exception, makes me swoon a little.
So, while parts of Sweet Tooth were a little lost on my dim bulb (I'll never fully grasp the difference between MI5 and MI6), and the significance of literature in Cold War Britain is still kind of murky, McEwan's language and observational acuity more than secures his place on my list of favorite authors of all time.
I promise I’ll keep it a secret.”I think all good writers become their characters and hence, they are writing from an authentic place that is much bigger than who they are in day-to-day life.
But still …This meandering but ultimately astonishing spy story is my seventh Ian McEwan book, the fifth with a fully complex protagonist or major character who is a woman, and his gut-level understanding is better than that in a slew of books by women.
For instance, talking about books and writing, the protagonist, a spy, talks to her asset, a writer who does not know he is an asset:I said I didn’t like tricks, I liked life as I knew it re-created on the page.
It’s certainly not a thriller and it’s a spy novel only in the literal sense.
A spy novel, a given it’s about deception but with layers upon layers, deception taken to a whole new level.
And to give credit where credit is due he’s masterful at pulling off the female voice.Serena is beautiful, highly intelligent & well educated, raised with all the privileges of upper class society - and proof positive that emotional & intellectual intelligence don’t necessarily go hand-in-hand.
I should have been wafted through life with the special dispensation that beauty bestows, discarding men at every turn.
So, one of the most inconsistently written novels I’ve read.
There is a cast of somewhat hackneyed characters, some jealous of promotion, some who want to sleep with her, the evil girlfriend who really likes her...
That wasn't enough to persuade me ever to read another McEwan because I don't really enjoy this sort of book, but if this is your sort of genre, then I would definitely recommend it.I wish the cover artist would get a small credit on the cover, then I might remember their names, some of them are really superb, like this one.So: three stars for the book and five stars for the cover artist = 4 stars.
...In our decline we live in the shadow of giants....In difficult moments it’s sometimes a good idea to ask yourself what it is you most want to be doing and consider how it can be achieved.
Then he took very special care of me.Months, and then years later, after all that happened, whenever I woke in the night and needed comfort, I’d summon that early winter evening when I lay in his arms and he kissed my face, and told me over and over again how silly I’d been, how sorry he was, and how he loved me....I experienced again the vague longing and frustration that came with the idea that I was living the wrong sort of life.
This is my third McEwan novel, so I am not veteran enough to compare elements of SWEET TOOTH to his large body of work, but a few aspects of his talent brought me back to ATONEMENT, which is one of my favorite British contemporary novels, and SOLAR, has last novel.
In SWEET TOOTH, he kicks the femme character up a notch by writing in the first-person perspective of a low-ranking spy in the early 1970s.Serena Frome—rhymes with plume-- is an arresting woman in her 20’s, a graduate of Cambridge in maths, and a speed-reading lover of novels, especially character-driven ones.
Also, I might add, Ian McEwan has been one of my favorite authors since way back --(but having been a little disappointed with *Solar*, as it was just not my style --I was starting to forget what I LOVED SOOOO MUCH about Ian McEwan --(never again)!THIS book has it ALL!!
Conversation is vital to a good book!In *Sweet Tooth*:Serena Frome (rhymes with plume), she read 'fast' -- for pure pleasure.Tom Haely, on the other hand, implied that without critical thinking, literature was worthless junk.
And spoilers, too, I suppose:I wonder if one of the reasons Serena is such a weak, passive, shallow main character is because, despite the first-person POV, McEwan can't quite bring himself to inhabit her?
Because I'm vaguely disturbed by McEwan's apparent mocking of readers (the "basest of readers"), while at the same time allowing Serena to assume she's an ideal reader, one who is knowledgeable and well-read - because she reads fast and indiscriminately.
I took some mean-spirited pleasure in reading his descriptions of a person who craves "a form of naive realism," who assumes she can gauge the quality of writing by the extent to which it aligns with her own impressions.

Self-ReferentialI could see someone writing a three-star review of McEwan's latest novel almost as easily as a five-star one.
Having recently been disappointed by Simon Mawer's Trapeze, about a similarly sheltered girl recruited as a spy, I was deeply pleased that McEwan seemed to be doing it right.But this is 1970 or so, the waning years of the Cold War, not WW2, and the mission that Serena is eventually given is cultural rather than military.
But there is an even more significant layer laid on top of that: this is a novel about writers and the writing process, and in the end this will be the dominant theme.
Serena makes her own excitement.
I’m a cold war, spy novel fan so I loved that angle and this one centered on literature, another interest of mine.
I’ve never felt let down by ANY of his books.I’m a McEwan fan and have read about half of his books.
For now I’ve rated it a four out of five stars but as I sit with it more that might change.
I only finished it yesterday and sometimes, depending on how a book lingers in my mind or doesn’t, my rating may change though I can only imagine in this cause adding a star, not deleting one.This review is based on an e-galley provided by the publishers.4.5/5
Между мен и Макюън нещата продължават да не се получават.
До края очакваш да стане нещо наистина грандиозно или поне хитро и интересно, но уви, това така и не се случва.
Едно нещо, освен сравнително скучния сюжет, обаче не мога да простя на носител на "Букър" - страшно клетите секс сцени.
Много пъти сме си говорили с приятели, че истинският майстор на перото се познава по това как пише (или избира да не пише) за секс.
Макюън има хубав, изчистен стил, но просто не се справя с описването на страстта.
Ако и тя не ми хареса, с Макюън приключваме.
She is just about the least convincing character of the book.Literature and the publishing world have prominent roles, and there is frequent name-dropping of real authors, including McEwan's friend Martin Amis who has non-speaking parts in the book.
One of the women in the MI5 office is moving up fast through the ranks, and Serena notes that eventually the woman would become director of MI5.
There was also a bit in one of the writer's stories within the book that was remarkably similar to the premise of the movie "Lars and the Real Girl".
the book started out really well for me and i was sucked right into the story.
the book is dedicated to christopher hitchens.
it's meta-fiction - many authors and books, as well as a book award (the austen prize, which is "better than the newly founded booker") feature on the pages of this novel.
which was disappointing - given the book also features mi5, spyishness and a bit of mystery.
it could have been snap, crackle, pop-a-lopping off the pages, but it wasn't.
for me, he's inconsistent not only from one book to the next, but even within a given book.
Spies, the 1970s, the Cold War, romance, intrigue and a master storyteller to put it all together for us.
Da sua extrema doçura, salpicada de um ténue aroma a flores…Como uma abelha-mestra, Ian McEwan tece um favo de palavras, dentro do qual dispõe situações e personagens fabulosas, que se unem e separam através do que faz a vida ser vida: amor, ciúme, morte, tristeza, saudade, solidão, IMAGINAÇÃO…O contexto, espacial, temporal, e histórico, em que as personagens se movimentam: espionagem, guerra fria, convulsões sociais,…considero-o irrelevante, porque, neste livro, do que eu gosto mesmo é da gente que por lá anda…No primeiro capítulo, de uma forma despretensiosa e divertida, conhecemos Serena, o seu passado, o seu presente e os seus sonhos de futuro.Os contos de Tom Haley são uma pequena maravilha - um em especial que, de tão singular e surpreendente, me confundiu e enredou num pequeno logro -.O capítulo em que Serena e Tom falam sobre probabilidades é muito curioso e estimulante.As páginas finais, belas e comoventes, deixaram-me de lágrimas nos olhos, mas com um sorriso nos lábios.Serena é uma mulher bela e inteligente, que procura o seu lugar no mundo.
What I took to be the norm -- taut, smooth, supple -- was the transient special case of youth.
To me, the old were a separate species, like sparrows or foxes.Sweet Tooth is a deceit.
There is a masque of espionage at play.
There are feints, there are lies.
The reader weaves as in concert, only to discover the ruse.
This is also a novel about deceit, especially literary deceit.
Did I mention deceit?
I was prepared to hate this novel but then fell helpless in its sway.
Sweet Tooth is a gripping journey, one well worth your time.
Alla fine, quando ho bisogno di volermi un po’ bene, di lasciare che le parole mi affabulino almeno per un po’, leggo McEwan.
Guastato dagli occasionali litigi, solitamente a proposito di soldi” Nove anni in una frase che racchiude tutto.
“La fine di ottobre portò con se il rito annuale di mettere indietro gli orologi, una stretta alla morsa delle tenebre sui nostri pomeriggi e l’ulteriore abbattimento dell’umore nazionale”.
Ecco perché mi piace McEwan.
Anche quando parla in prima persona da donna, come in questo caso e a volte gli scappa qualche stereotipo,io lo perdono.
The author she is first pointed at is Tom Haley – and reading his short stories (which are summarised in detail) she is drawn to him and after meeting him he agrees to the funding (unaware of its source) and they start a relationship.A surprisingly easy and enjoyable read, the period detail and a story based around the Monty Hall problem fit McEwan’s usual insistence on reproducing his research (although less annoyingly than in previous novels, albeit that may be personal interest in the topics).
