https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9317452-rivers-of-london
Great book.
5. The main character has a great voice.
5. The language is great.
I don't think I've ever read anything else published in the US that has as much legitimate British slang in it.
If you don't know anything at all about London, Brittish slang, or culture other than the last three decades of American history, this book might stretch you a little bit.
For the rest of you who realize that one of the main joys of reading (if not life itself) is learning and broadening your experience of the world… well… this book is for you.
Rivers of London is a fun mix of so many things that I love in my pleasure reads - the geekiness and the science, the dry British humor², and the magical/mythical/phantasmagorical stuff in a big city³. What's not to like? My whole life, basically. Really.² Examples - Terry Pratchett, Neil Gaiman, even some of China Miéville's stuff.³ Examples - Harry Dresden books, China Miéville, Neil Gaiman, even Sir Terry."Carved above the lintel were the words SCIENTIA POTESTAS EST. Science points east, I wo
All helped along with humor, and told in a narrative voice that is very even-keeled, even when the protagonist is faced with a life-or-death situation, and which, in my opinion, adds to the appeal of this story."We did an hour of practice, at the end of which I was capable of flinging a fireball down the range at the dizzying speed of a bumblebee who'd met his pollen quota and was taking a moment to enjoy the view." And the city - Ben Aaronovitch's love for London is contagious.
Well, I'm always looking for a great Urban fantasy book series, and this one is another one I'll be following with joy!
Very much in the style of Harry Dresden, and my other fave, the Alex Verus series.
This series is set in modern-day London, and features a black male lead character, who's a cop, and finds himself drafted into the magical investigation unit arm of the police.
I love the sensibility of this book, it's incredibly dark at the same time, quippy!
The worldbuilding is very interesting as well, and the characters are fun to follow.
city people be like:first of all, i wasn't too keen on what happens to lesley, but i guess you can't make an omelette without—*ducks flung shoe* anyway.this painfully-white guy i used to know read this book too, and he said aaronovitch's handling of race annoyed him, because while there is awesomeness like various london water goddesses being nigerians, aaronovitch himself is not nigerian, and people who speak authoritatively about races not their own are typically embarrassing and distasteful.and it's true, mostly.
and all places like it in this city are almost always run by arabs.
I'm giving this top marks for an UF for several reasons.1.
I may love bits and pieces of them, but then you come across writing that is a breeze to fall into and enjoy throughout, and then you know you've got a real winner on your hands.
It feels real and I just love this guy.3.
This is great grounding and full of great humor and history, bringing in some of the weirdest tidbits of the past centuries like the proverbial grab-bag and shaking it about a bit and giving us a hell of a weird novel.
It's a total blast.Any one of these reasons should have been enough, but damn...
Peter Grant is a Probationary Constable, a term I wasn't familiar with until I began reading.
At the beginning the London of Peter Grant is a normal one.
But then Grant witnesses a ghost at a crime scene.The author reminds me of Ian Rankin when there is police procedure of the mudane type, and Jim Butcher when magic is involved.
I liked how imperfect the hero, Peter Grant, is.
I think that the slow pacing of the book helps establish its world for the necessary sequels.
What I'm saying is that the book is must read and is a wonderful springboard for a series.
I hope that more leads in urban fantasy novels in the future are of color, because it adds something to a read to see someone who is like you, at least in some small way.I enjoyed Peter’s character.
It was interesting to watch Peter and Nightingale use a mix of police investigative techniques and magic to solve the inexplicable attacks of violence that seemingly normal London citizens are perpetrating against each other.
After falling for Peter Grant, and his unforgettable narrative of London, he is going on my must read list.
Martin, noting the good-quality coat and shoes, had just pegged the body as a drunk when he noticed that it was in fact missing its head.” OK.
So while a lot of the events of this book were quite dark, its head-space, mediated by a young 21st Century London copper named (we eventually find out) Peter Grant, was not.
Aaronovitch offered quite a charming older mentor figure in one Detective Inspector Thomas Nightingale, last wizard of London, upon whom I was quite willing to bestow my senior-citizenly affections, except for this risk.
Posted at Shelf InflictedI’m a fan of Jim Butcher’s Dresden Files series, even though I got tired and stopped reading after #9.
After a while the stories became too repetitive and I didn’t see any significant growth in Harry’s character.
In the hopes I would find a fun read similar to the Dresden books, I picked up Midnight Riot.
Under Nightingale’s patient tutelage, Peter learns how magic works and how to hone his investigative skills.
I found my attention wandering numerous times and took breaks to read other stories.
Turns out he is an actor and director is well, with a long list of tv credits, which is kind of a bummer because I hope he continues to have time for the Peter Grant series.Holbrook Smith is clearly a talented voice actor who can understandably convey a range of London accents, from that of an 19th century itenerant to Nightingale's 'posh' early 20th century to current police vernacular.
(hide spoiler)] I did feel like quite a few bit characters ended up with a Jamaican-sounding accent, which may or may not reflect London demographics.
Well, this was something different.
It had to grow on me.
Which, in the end it did.
Fun characters, out of the box weird story, humor here and there and all playing in London, one of my most favorite cities in the world.
It is of course a fantasy story, a young man, starting out as a cop, turns into a learning wizard cop.
No, it's not like Harry Potter....
it's kind of a weird fantasy story playing in London.
good start.
I'd like to try more of this series and see how it evolved.
Fun.But not too much.
Just the right amount of fun.
Ladies and gentleman, if you're looking for a relatively light read, with overtones of the theatre and English puppetry, and undertones of feuding rivers and power struggles, all sifted through the eyes of a police constable who has just discovered that magic is real, and he's been chosen to police it, then this is the book for you!Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Which I did not like at all after about book two.Peter Grant and his London are intimately connected.
This book is meant to be fun to read, and it is, while still being built with a consistent mythical background, and it is, with...and here's the key to my pleasure in reading this as opposed to Dresden or Gaiman...a main character whose journey through the pages of story causes him to alter his perception of himself and his place in the world.
And I'll read Moon Over Soho, the next installment in the series, because I like Peter and his majgickqal world that much.
I know you’re all secret alcoholics too… ah booze, you beautiful beast you… slurp… Peter Grant is the London Metropolitan Police’s newest recruit, hoping for a fun, rewarding placement that’s not gonna stick him behind a desk filling out endless paperwork.
Supernatural coppers ain’t exactly original with The X-Files TV show and the Hellboy/BPRD comics springing to mind, and even the idea of a fantasy story about murderous Punch and Judy puppets has been done before in Terry Pratchett’s Discworld short story Theatre of Cruelty, but Aaronovitch definitely makes the concept his own here - Rivers of London is the best novel I’ve read in, well, too damn long!I enjoyed every part of this book.
"When I’m considering this I find it helpful to quote the wisdom of my father, who once told me, Who knows why the fuck anything happens?” Funny, fresh and awesomely weird. I still have some minor complaints, but I couldn't put this down 😯
“You put a spell on the dog," I said as we left the house."Just a small one," said Nightingale."So magic is real," I said. "Which makes you a...what?""A wizard.""Like Harry Potter?"Nightingale sighed. "No," he said. "Not like Harry Potter.""In what way?""I'm not a fictional character," said Nightingale.” 2META4ME :DI loved this little gem. It was hilarious, snarky, well paced and good hearted. A funny, easily digestible read that is eager to delight the reader. Where do I start with the many wa
"Which makes you a...what?""A wizard.""Like Harry Potter?"Nightingale sighed.
"Not like Harry Potter.""In what way?""I'm not a fictional character," said Nightingale.”
It was hilarious, snarky, well paced and good hearted.
The fact that it was entirely possible for someone to be all three simultaneously is why good-Samaritanism in London is considered an extreme sport - like BASE jumping or crocodile wrestling.”
I highlighted like 40+ hilarious passages where Peter commented on modern life.
The plot was arguably the weakest aspect of the novel.
Although some aspects (view spoiler)[e.g. the murder of the baby (hide spoiler)] did shock me.
I found quite a lot more to love within these pages.Peter Grant is a young constable with the London Metropolitan Police who has just completed the required stint as a street cop and is about to be assigned to a higher duty.
This is a love song for an imaginary girlfriend, which is just perfect because I have a little announcement: I am officially throwing over my current fictional boyfriend for one Peter Grant, science geek, constable, and apprentice wizard.
Goddammit. I wanted to like this one. I really, really, really did. It has a lot going for it. Midnight Riot, also known as Rivers of London across the pond, has, while not the most original premise, certainly an engaging voice. It's got that dry British humor going on, an initially likable hero, an intriguing world and diverse cast, a science(ish)-based magic system, and a POC protagonist who doesn't read like a white guy with a paint job. It was close, SO CLOSE, to enjoyable.Unfortunately, it
It's got that dry British humor going on, an initially likable hero, an intriguing world and diverse cast, a science(ish)-based magic system, and a POC protagonist who doesn't read like a white guy with a paint job.
can only go so far in explaining supernatural phenomenon, and there comes a time when both Peter and his teacher have to admit that they just don't know how some magic works, scientifically, but there was enough detail that I didn't really mind when we got to that point.
Peter Grant dreams of becoming a detective in London’s Metropolitan Police.
Peter Grant was really likeable, but only during the first half of the novel.
The murders were mediocre and the other characters were also mediocre.
Nightingale was a delight to read, but aside from Grant and Nightingale, there were no other good characters.
This first novel felt more like an introduction to the characters and the setting, so hopefully the sequel would be a lot better than this.3.5/5 stars.
This was not bad, don’t get me wrong, but it could’ve been way better.
And I thought: hell, why do I need sleep when I’m on a date with Peter Grant <3The idea to present an ordinary human, who reveals super powers in himself, is not quite new, but in “Rivers of London”, the plot, the setting, and the main characters are new and interesting to me and they definitely helped me to have an extremely fun reading experience.Ben Aaronovitch surprised me with a wise plot, because I found a mix of professional police stuff, touch of magic and the main character, whose role is to be a good detective, good magician apprentice and good diplomat while staying sane and professional.
Ben Aaronovitch is funny. Midnight Riot's appeal stems from protagonist Peter Grant's humor:"Do we have a plan B?" "Molly can do haemomancy," said Nightingale [...] "It might be possible to find [the suspect] that way." "Why can’t we do it that way now?" I asked. "Because the odds are five to one against you surviving the experience," said Nightingale. "So, yeah," I said. "Probably best not to do it that way now, then."Aaronovitch delivers on his claims and doesn't make the mistake of claiming t
Midnight Riot's appeal stems from protagonist Peter Grant's humor:"Do we have a plan B?"	"Molly can do haemomancy," said Nightingale [...] "It might be possible to find [the suspect] that way."	"Why can’t we do it that way now?" I asked.
Peter Grant's asides paint London for readers, and may I say Aaronovitch's development -not tokens; I could hug Aaronovitch for the little gems of West African wisdom- of her multicultural nature shames the multitudes of authors writing big US & UK cities who have failed miserably to recognize the richness of those cities.
But alas, not thanks to good old police-work, but by pure coincidence.This frustrating lack of urgency is complemented by the weird casualness with which all the characters discuss murder and magic over a pint at their local pub.
And despite being under oath of secrecy, Peter Grant (the apprentice wizard) can't stop blabbering about his training to everyone he meets, as if this "great" secret was common knowledge.Besides acting like puppets, the characters lack any likeability.
Charlie Don’t Surf and no one can when the water spirits are in a feud that gets Peter wrapped up in the trouble.Binding this very cool narrative together is the Scooby Doo crime solving mystery with Peter trying to nick the ghost who Fought the Law. Aaronovitch finally Rocks the Casbah with a mind bending White Riot of urban fantasy good times.I’ll be in line for the next book in this series, Moon Over Soho and I’ll make sure to have London Calling playing while I read.
I love those little experiments, because it breaks up the action and makes Peter's experience seem all the more real--who wouldn't be asking a lot of questions if they discover there are magical beings and magic in the world?
Many people would be asking the 'hows' and 'whys;' Peter attempts to answer some of the questions himself through the scientific method, to the surprise of his technologically-challenged boss.There are few wizards left, and I liked that Aaronovitch didn't make magic easy.
We're also given a good look at the subtleties of the police department, when Seawoll "interrogates" Peter after a shooting.
The first time, I listened to the talented Kobna Holdbrook-Smith introduce me to Peter Grant, Leslie May, Nightingale, and a variety of other characters.
(The benefits of reading, versus listening and driving.)I'm loving the tour through London in this series, with all of Peter's dry commentary on the city.
Wonderful Leslie May, who's a damned good copper, silent and creepy Molly, DS Stephanopolous, and Mama Thames and her daughters.
You do not want to mess with Mama Thames.
I really enjoyed spending time with the cheeky bugger Peter Grant, and look forward to rereading book 2 now.
While it looks like he will be "condemned" to one of the more boring areas of police work, his interview not going exactly as he hoped Peter can't let the murder investigation (and the fact that he apparently talked to a ghost) go.
And he wants Peter to work for him....Our story takes off from here.Good book.
And while I suppose comparisons with other urban fantasies must arise (I'd say especially with Jim Butcher's Harry Dresden books) enjoy this for what it is, itself.
First of all, I don't even know if "urban fantasy" would most accurately describe it, as there is also so much of the book that sets it apart and makes it an original and refreshing read.I suppose it's best to describe Rivers of London as a police procedural mixed with a heavy dose of the supernatural, topped with a dash of dark comedy, mystery and action.
Peter becomes Nightingale's apprentice, and soon the two are running all over the city trying to solve a series of murders involving exploding faces.The book is also almost like a love letter to London.
Yet the young hero, Constable Peter Grant captured my affection and respect and I believe from what I hear that the series gets better.Rather than the flash and pizzazz shown by wizard Harry Dresden waging desperate war against legions of bizarre magical creatures in Butcher’s series, this tale thrives mostly on conventional police procedural efforts that home in on a single powerful ghost.
“Wheels come off, wankers get stroppy and what were you doing?”“I was only gone for a couple of seconds,” I said.“You were checking what was written on the lion’s bum,” said Leslie.
I was sucked right into the book from the very first pages, which was very pleasant after a little bit of literary resistance I had been encountering in my late choices.Freshly baked Constable Peter Grant is on duty watching a murder site after it has been released from forensics and takes in a witness report - from a ghost.
While he is dealing with his encounter and decides on not going insane the story unfolds.Peter finds out that not only are ghosts and magic real, but they have an established history in the city and he can have a part in this world.
Ich habe irgendwo in der Mitte komplett den Überblick über die Handlung verloren und ab da an nichts mehr verstanden 😂
