https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2292384.Fearless_Fourteen
Book Review   4 of 5 stars to Fearless Fourteen, the 14th book in the "Stephanie Plum" mystery series, written in 2008 by Janet Evanovich. Another fine adventure in the life of a normal, every-day gal who just happens to be a bounty hunter. Everything you'd expect shows up in this one... Ranger's after Stephanie in his normal sly approach. She takes on a job working for him and finds herself lusting even more than usual. But she still sorta loves Joe. Except he's got his hands full with someon
Book Review
4 of 5 stars to Fearless Fourteen, the 14th book in the "Stephanie Plum" mystery series, written in 2008 by Janet Evanovich.
But she still sorta loves Joe. Except he's got his hands full with someone trying to kill him.
And let's not forget about the monkey who has a thing for one or two of our favorite characters.
But with 26 books in the series...
there's got to be something different each time.
Leave a comment and let me know what you think.
Many thanks to their original creators.
The last couple of books have been horrible, silly and ridiculous; this one was no exception.The characters I once loved and look forward all year to hearing from are barely visible.
Jokes, gags and antics that once made me laugh have been recycled and reused so much, it’s sad.No one in this series is growing or getting anywhere, they are all just going in circles.
If the reviews make the book look promising, maybe I will read it.
I will reread the older and much better books in the series if I need a Plum fix.Cherise Everhard, June 2008
I had thought I wouldn't be able to read this series beyond 13th book but during my exams I needed an amusing book in a familiar setting so I picked this up and it ended with me loving it.
Every single book by Janet Evanovich is equally hilarious but we don't realize it 'coz we're busy reading it in a frenzy.
One thing now is clear to me - I still love this series.
I called Morelli and got his voice mail. "Just checking in," I said. "And by the way, no reason to get alarmed, but do you have personal liability insurance tacked on to your homeowner's?" I don't think we have to worry about Stephanie making an eventual decision between Morelli and Ranger. Morelli should be dead soon from the stress of being with her.In this book we have a kidnapping, a stalker, a teenage tagger, potato guns, and a maybe-wedding coming up.In typical Stephanie fashion, she make
I don't think we have to worry about Stephanie making an eventual decision between Morelli and Ranger.
Morelli should be dead soon from the stress of being with her.In this book we have a kidnapping, a stalker, a teenage tagger, potato guns, and a maybe-wedding coming up.In typical Stephanie fashion, she makes friends with the stalker and takes him home to dinner with her family.Stephanie's mother: 
And, for a stalker, he is a really nice guy.Gotta take good care of your stalkers...Of course, dinner with Stephanie's family could scare most criminals straight.
"You should snap me up," Morelli said.
I just finished Janet Evanovich's "Fearless Fourteen" starring Stephanie Plum, Ranger, and Joe and I literally laughed, snorted, and guffawed my way through this book.
I've read and heard some of the bad-mouthing this book has gotten and although I understand some people are anxious for Stephanie to make a choice between Ranger and Joe, I, for one, am just happy to keep reading about Stephanie's wild and zany life.This time Stephanie has quite a few things to deal with.
Stephanie has managed to put herself on the hook to care for a teenager who may be Joe's child from his wild youth.
Janet Evanovich has done it again.
Great book!
Not many books are as truly entertaining as a Stephanie Plum story.
No matter how many times I read them I still laugh out loud and can't put them down.
I would recommend these books to any one, and always smile whenever I do.June, 2016.
In this book we have an aging country singer who is hilarious!
Meanwhile Morelli has everyone digging up his yard looking for treasure.
I almost fell over laughing at the image of Lula with a jackhammer and Mooner with a potato gun.
🤣 Morelli lost points in this book, though.
I was disappointed.
I was more then disappointed I was MAD.
Joe Steph and Ranger and Steph not being able to choose.
He's in the book just enough to keep Ranger fans like me hanging on.
I keep reading because I'm hooked on the great characters like, grandma Mazur and Lula and Ranger.
Fearless Fourteen, I got my book 2nd hand, Like I said I wasn't going to pay top dollar for a book that wasn't worth it.
The book had it's moments that made me laugh.
I loved the books because they were crazy and funny, and fantasy.
In my mind, my kitchen is filled with crackers and cheese, roast chiken leftovers, farm fresh eggs, and coffee beans ready to grind. The reality us that I keep my Smith&Wesson in the cooky jar, my Oreos in the microwave, a jar of peanut butter and hamster food in the over-the-counter cupboard, and I have beer and olives in the refrigerator. I used to have a birthday cake in the freezer for emergencies, but I ate it."/> I haven't touched my Plum stash in a while, knowing I'll need it for
At least that's what I'm telling myself.I missed the craziness of the Burg, Morelli's cheezy innuendoes and Ranger's "babe" and was reminded of why I love this series so much.
There's an evel flying pizza out there, and it's got Brenda's name on it."there's an old robbery, money from wich was never recovered and a tresure hunt that takes place in Morelli's backyard, in wich all burgers (residents of the Burg, naturally) participate.
Rememeber the time you fell off the fire escape and rolled in the dog diarrhea?"Nice to know he has standarts, that horndog Morelli.
Oh and Steph and Morelli were taking shifts babysitting a spraypainting teenager.
Zook’s uncle isn’t happy that the kid is spending time at Morelli’s house and claims Joe is Zook’s actual father.
But the uncle, Dom Rizzi, is no saint as he did time for a bank robbery in which the money was never recovered.Having grown up in “Jersey,” I loved the earlier Plum books.
She’s a good writer, but this is so chaotic, you lose the focus, and the impact, of the main story.
Stephanie is a character who hasn’t grown.
She’s the type I might enjoy at first, but would never have as a friend as she is just too much of a ditz.
The Stephanie Plum books are funny... laugh out loud funny. They will not challenge you. They will not surprise or shock you. But they will entertain you and make you laugh.I have been struggling with my health and my TBR was filled with classics which are not the books you read when your brain is mush. So, I returned to this series where I left off. In the past three days I have read this one and the next four. And it was fun.
This is the first time I have ever admitted to reading these books.
I told a friend who I already knew loved the books.
These books aren't even candy.
These books are funny!
But, still funny.
But, still funny.
I like to laugh.
I like to laugh at silly, inappropriate things.
(Remember, my favorite books are fairy tales.
Talk about a willing suspension of disbelief.) I have read the entire series.
Yes, I think the titles are silly and the whole naming a book by number or alphabet is silly.
Joe thing.
If you've read the books, who would you choose?
I was very frustrated with this one.I almost gave up several times, but stuck with it.
The whole thing felt thrown together, almost like Evanovich just wanted the money and could care less about pleasing her readers.The worst of the series, in my opinion.
I might think twice about getting the next one on the release date in 2009, which is a real shame since I've liked the series for so long.
I have a confession to make, I save this series up for those times when I really need a good laugh and know that I will get both characters I love and have a freaking good time while reading it, not to mention laugh out loud numerous times while doing so. This series is just fun, plain and simple and I adore it, weird love triangle and all.
This book, Fearless Fourteen is part of a series called Stephanie Plum and so I had to know the background of the characters found in most of the 13 earlier books.
This particular story opens with Plum apprehending grocery shoplifter, Loretta Rizzi who stole steak in a grocery because she does not know how to properly cook one.
That's supposed to be fun because Rizzi has the money but she does not know how to marinate or something properly so she steals it.
I have no urge to read all the 18 books.
Series:  Stephanie Plum #14 Genre:  Mystery.
Women Sleuths + Humor :: 5 Pretty Little Stars :: Oh man!
I can honestly not get enough of Stephanie and the antics she seems to ALWAYS find herself in and around.
I have definitely noticed a small amount of growth in Stephanie (as she is sort of settling down now) and some MAJOR changes in Morella.
Anyway, this book is still filled with amazingly funny antics and the secondary characters are absolutely superb.
Overall, I definitely recommend this book and obviously, the entire series.
It's fast paced, funny, and filled with the most loveable characters around!
5 stars
Okay, my rating isn't really objective - I'll admit that now.
I'm a Ranger girl, and he doesn't figure prominently in this book, so I gave it a poor rating.
Otherwise, it's a good, average member of the series.
I'm also a bit disappointed that she seems to be writing towards making Joe and Steph a permanent couple.
There's an interview with Evanovich on the web (romancenovels.tv) where she says she wanted to make this series into a kind of bubble where no one ages, grows, or learns.
As a nearly-compulsive series reader, I'm happy to hear that.
I'm sick of Joe!
I really enjoyed this series early on. Now it's getting a little old, and this book in particular was quite thin on story. I got pretty impatient with Stephanie always being called, alternately by the men in her life, "cupcake" and "babe". I would like to see this series take a fresh new turn.
There wasn't one.
I'd spoil that for you as well, but again: it would be a big ol' letdown.Even the funny bits weren't funny in this book.
Ms Evanovich apparently got ahold of an online dictionary for MMORPG slang and made up a subplot based on it.
She got some of the terms way wrong.
Was a source of information in this book.
I was a huge fan early on, but she's been wimping out the last, oh, six books or so.
This one wasn't even worth the time, no less the money.
I like some of these books better than others, I think they started going down hill after 11 (even though, as a whole I believe I gave them all 5 stars) but until this book I have never been completely disappointed. I am so sad to say goodbye to Stephanie Plum. She did give me many hours of enjoyment.
The 14th book in the Stephanie Plum series by Janet Evanovich. Another silly adventure involving a little romance, a little mystery, and lots of humor.
This story is exactly what I expected from a Stephanie Plum novel :D
Predictable but fun. Just when I thought the humor was too broad, I found myself laughing aloud and shaking my head. Sometimes you just need a banana peel.
Es war wie immer ein Vergnügen :D
Well….after fourteen sometimes funny, occasionally trite, often steamy and always relatable books, I feel it is time to bid farewell to Stephanie Plum.
Stephanie is no longer funny.
After fourteen books and God only knows how many years, Stephanie should be able to recognize and want at least one of her leading men, exclusively.
How many times can I read about her getting chased by dogs, tackling, and yet being out-bested by criminals who are constantly constructed as dim witted?
If they are dim witted, what does that make Stephanie as the idiot who can’t out smart a well known dumbass?
And some new characters were introduced - a young boy named Zook who is into video games; a once-famous but now sort of has-been singer named 'Brenda'; her stalker Gary and of course various 'skips' that Stephanie tries to apprehend along the way.
I will admit that I still get excited when Evanovich comes out with a new book in this series.
If you've read this series before you know that the storylines are usually predictable, and this one is no exception.
The little character quirks that I usually find hysterical were lacking and when they were incorporated into the storyline, they felt forced and over-the-top.
Still don't know why he was added.Another problem I have with this book is that Stephanie repeatedly gets into trouble just being around Lula - and there is a whole lot of Lula in Fourteen.
He's a bit player in this book.
But I don't see why Lula is constantly invited into all of Stephanie's situations, just because she ends up getting burned by something that Lula says or does.
I would have distanced myself from her half a dozen books ago.
She's also an expensive bad friend.I am now awaiting the next book with hesitation, not knowing if the heyday of the series has passed.
Whew.
After paying full price for this in hardback at an airport bookstore, I was so relieved to find that I enjoyed it MUCH more than the previous few entries in this series.
There are plenty of laughs (I particularly love the visual of Grandma Mazur dressed in rocker punk, as well as Carl the wild monkey), and a halfway decent plot as well.Yippee!
Not as good as her last few. I still enjoyed it of course, there were some fun moments as usual, but I thought it kind of drug on a bit.I think she needs to do something a bit different. Maybe concentrate the main story on one of the other characters, Grandma or Lula, or even Ranger. One of them could get in a fix and Steph could help get them out of it. Give some back story on them etc.She seems to be in a bit of a rut, and needs a bit of change.
NEEDS MOAR RANGER. I thought this book was less eventful than your average installment of Stephanie Plum's misadventures, and I thought the Brenda-related story line was a bust. But what the book lacked in plot, it made up for with actual progress in the love triangle, GASP. Or maybe not so much *actual* progress as really hitting home how much progress there's been already. I talked about it in detail over here.
I will be serious this one time. I could not finish it!! I have loved all the Plum books until this one and I have never been so disappointed in my reading life as of a book. I probably will not read another one.
