https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/178462.To_Be_a_Slave
This is a children's book.
This is essential reading.I was ready to move beyond the biographies of Frederick Douglass and others to search for more depth into the day to day existence of the American slave, and yes, in this book for children, I found it.
To Be A Slave delves into the archives of ex-slaves' accounts, occasionally dry memories of daily life transcribed word for word.
To Be A Slave is not unedited, however.
It picks wisely and mostly avoids event-summary as transcribed from the oral accounts of the mostly illiterate slaves.
It's perfect for giving school kids a rudimentary grounding in the subject, as well as providing launch points for further research and reading.While in grade school, I remember one of my classmates went to talk to (approximately) 105 year-old Daisy Turner for a history project.Even though Turner had no direct experience with slavery, she was one generation removed and had a wealth of stories to share.The same is true of the narratives excerpted here, although with the stinging truth of events lived and endured.
One of the often-referred to narratives is by Solomon Northrup, but most are from a collection of oral histories compiled by the Federal Writers' Project in the 1930s.A quick read, but densely powerful.
I read this when I was in 6th grade, maybe earlier...and read it several time afterwards.This book t
Where I grew up, we didn't learn much about slavery, the civil rights movement, or any African American history for that matter.
This is such an important part of our history.I loved that the book has different chapters based on each time frame throughout slavery, including how they made it to the slave ship, their horrible journey to America, plantation life and then the emancipation.
Each section has stories from different sources and slaves.
It really explains how life was for them, and the things they had to experience.
To Be A Slave, by Julius Lester, was one of the most moving books I have ever read provided with many detailed, first hand accounts of slaves captured in Africa by the English and Europeans and then taken to the new colonies in America.
Lester gives us detailed and vivid descriptions of the exact food a slave would eat, what they wore, how the celebrated Christmas, went to a white man's church on Sunday telling them how God places the white men above the blacks and they were to serve them, what the family did when separated at the auction block so soon after a new child was born and sold, and how slaves escaped slavery with many being recaptured.
i had to read this for school. It was truly painful to read, but then again, i think that was the point.
I am very glad I read this book, because I learned a lot about slaves.
I also enjoy reading books about history, because I enjoy learning about the past.PlotIn the beginning of the book, it talked about how the slave trade started.
Slaves were often sold to plantation owners for work through a auction.
In the beginning of the book it took place in Africa where the slaves were captured.
Because they wanted to get free very badly, they fought in the Civil War against all of the slave owners.

This book was written to introduce children to the concept of the slavery in the US. It intersperses excerpts from slave accounts and interviews with explanatory remarks by Lester as well as black and white drawings by Feelings. I felt it did a good job of explaining and showing without showing too much of the real horror that slaves suffered. My intent in reading it was to determine if it is appropriate for my 11year old grand-nephew, and I feel it definitely is.
I loved how this book carefully weaved in the real words of ex-slaves and showed all perspectives, but most of all, there was no censorship. Julius Lester gave us the entire image. It truly changed my image of slaves and showed to me how the line between immoral and moral can be blurred to the extent that it is not apparent. This is the type fo book that you won't want to read again for some time, but you will not regret reading it. It leaves a lasting imprint.
Lester is the name of the family that owned us.”His words were the defining moment of my life…..I was overwhelmed by a sense of loss…….I did not even know my real name (Pg. 3,4)Well wanted to finish my Black History reading with a classic I have never read…..and heads up this is a long review because wow I am seriously a fan of Julius Lester and his writing and OMG sadly enough I found he just passed away in January of 2018 at the age of 78….Born in 1939 Lester was a child born in the last decade of people born under slavery and freed by the Emancipation proclamation.
It's so sad knowing that people were owned just like an object in a house, and were ordered to do things that they didn't want to do.
They wanted to know the language, how to read, write and spell.
I recommend this book to anyone who wants to know how slavery was for the slaves by reading their stories, some facts, and to really think about how it would be if you were a slave.
It's good to know that you'll never be a slave and suffer as much as they did but it's also good to be captivated by the book and feel what the slaves writings are trying to portray.
You can think you know about slavery.
It horrified and grieved me, made me wonder how, as a Caucasian and a Christian and an American, I can reconcile these facts, how I can work to make a different now, for what my ancestors didn't do (at least to my knowledge.
they were not in an area or culture known for slavery, and I hope my family tree has escaped the direct taint of it.).
and what violations of the rights of people are happening now, that future generations might wonder why WE didn't stop those?Read this book if you haven't yet.
I picked this book up at the suggestion of Sue Monk Kidd at the end of her book "The Invention of Wings." Lester writes, "One of the greatest overlook source for information concerning slavery has been the words of those who were slaves." To write this book, Lester read through over six thousand pages of manuscripts and organized it into chapters and tied it together with a bit of his own commentary.
I wanted to continue reading and learning.One additional note: This has received the Newbery Award, but I offer a word of caution before giving it to young children.
Julius Lester's "To be a Slave" was a great book that taught me a lot about slavery.
When I first started reading this book, I was worried it was going to be a boring historical fiction book about slavery.
After I read the introduction, I learned that it was written by a descendant of slavery who had done a lot of research about the lives of slaves.
When Lester did was take the narratives of the former slaves and weave them together with his own written.
The text did not keep me interested throughout the whole book, let alone the first 40 pages.
Maybe if I try to read this book again when I am a little bit older, I might be able to understand the text better and enjoy what I am reading.
I don't think I would read another book by Julius Lester because I don't like his style of writing.
The style of writing that the author uses is something that you have to like from the beginning; it is not something that you can easily learn to like.
If you like learning about history, then you might enjoy this book, as well.
I felt that this book really took the definition of quoting to a whole new level.
Not only is this book made entirely of quotes, the author also connected and organized the quotes in a way that made sense to the "story" he was trying to tell.
Reading this book not only made me realize the styles novels can come in, it also made me realize that slavery was more devastating than it seemed.
However in the end, it was a great experience reading it, other than the explicate quotes.
I recommend this book to anyone who wants to be in the shoes of slaves.
This was a monumental book that I would love to incorporate into a middle school or upper elementary classroom.
This is especially true with the very short stories.
That said, I think this would be a great book to keep in a classroom library and perfect for adding realism to a social studies unit.
Reading a few of these stories aloud, as well as using the audio book version to play songs, will help express the emotions of the slaves to students who have no real understanding of anything so awful.
This book is a compilation of written letters and notes by slaves. It is a very intresting book, simply because there is a new story about an event that happened every few pages. This book will help you see the way slavery changed and you will see a difference in this book and any high school history textbook. This book has real life experieces that are written down by those who experienced them. I would recommend this book to young adults, escpecially those who are intrested in the history of slavery.
I got this from my mom's to let my 9 yr.
old read, but I wanted to read it first, to see if she could or not...
I was somewhat surprised at the content, it is a very sad book!
The author does a good job compiling letters of ex-slaves, beginning at capture and going through daily life and then to freedom.
I was surprised at the letter he chose to end the book on though, the person who wrote it is very bitter and angry, while the rest of the book is a little more accepting...
My english teacher assigned this book to the class and gave us 2 weeks to read it. At some parts, it made you cry, and at other parts, it bored me to tears. Either way, you'll end up crying if you read it. But no it was a pretty good book, not the most interesting through some chapters, but it really made you question life back then in history, and life today. You decide how much you think things have changed.
I wish that there were more illustrations because I wanted to get more a visual picture of what they were going through.I like this book because actual slaves were telling their stories.I rate this book a 4 out of 5 because they used real slaves interviews.If i were the author i would have put in more pictures because like i said before i think it's better to get more of a visual picture.
This is a very powerful, engaging book that is essential reading. So important that these voices continue to be heard for generations to come, the brutality and attitudes are just incomprehensible, it hurts my head trying to work out how this could ever have happened.
There should be nothing but stark reality surrounding this subject, so none of us delude ourselves into thinking the slavery was just part of the romance of the south as in Gone With the Wind. The life of a slave, told by slaves.
Hmmph, no words.
Had to read it for school and it was dreadful
Lester’s purpose of creating this book was to inform the people of the United States of what it was like to live through slavery as a slave.
Lester allows those who have never experienced slavery see the horrors of it, through stories of actual slaves.
This quote shows how the slave owner is trying to dehumanize the slaves before they even reach his plantation.
This quote shows that slave owners were not afraid to do anything to break their slaves.
This quote shows the intense hatred slaves felt towards slave owners.
I truly wish these stories were required reading, especially as the last chapter and the epilogue establish firmly (that seems like too soft a word) that the oppression of African Americans continued beyond the emancipation proclamation, and that in fact slavery didn't truly end but came back under the guise of "share cropping." The full force of hearing this from the people who lived it, or reading their predictions that the United States would never truly be equitable to African Americans, is both absolutely heartbreaking and downright chilling.While I just finished my own read-through of this book, I am also using it in my tutoring sessions with sixth grade students.
This historical book, written by Julius Lester and illustrated by Tom Feelings, was absolutely incredible. The 156-page book, including the emotion-tugging images, actually would bring tears to my eyes from its content. Prior to reading this book, I thought I knew, or at least understood, just about all there was about slavery. After reading this book, my eyes have been opened to a new light and understanding that I’m only beginning to comprehend.  To Be a Slave is a story on slavery taken from
This historical book, written by Julius Lester and illustrated by Tom Feelings, was absolutely incredible.
These interviews, which are point-of-views from former slaves, really bring out the reality of the brutal and demeaning effects slavery truly had upon African Americans.
Maybe, just maybe, if you were to go to the people who actually lived through the events, then you’d truly gain the proper knowledge on the topic.
What I liked about the book was that it really gave a deeper insight to a topic many people would assume has been played out a bit too much.
It is difficult to understand why anyone would think that owning a human being was okay.
I always thought that the argument that we cannot free the slaves because we have so abused them that if we freed them they would kill us was the most perverse sense of self-serving logic.
Another that was clarified for me in this book was the argument that they could not free the slaves because the slaves were incapable of taking care of themselves.
Again a self-serving argument.
