https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10473557-the-tooth
Shirley Jackson’s The Haunting of Hill House masterfully merged the traditional haunted house story with the psychological breakdown of her protagonist to create something unique and terrifying that made readers question whether Hill House really was haunted, was it all in the heroine’s mind or – both?The Tooth sees Jackson return to the fertile realm of impressionistic narrative to tell the story of Clara, a woman with toothache who dreams of and possibly escapes her abusive marriage as she sets off to the big city to have a rotten tooth removed.
I wasn't entirely sure of the purpose of the story, but I enjoyed the lasting effect it gave, and I would read it again.
(3/5)The Lottery.I enjoyed this famous story, and thankfully so as it was the story I was looking forward to reading the most in the entire collection.
(2/5)I was a little disappointed in this short story collection if I'm being honest, and this is a pattern I'm beginning to see emerge with Shirley Jackson's work.
I really enjoyed these.
I only bought this because it contains "The Lottery", which is probably one of the most famous short stories of all time but I enjoyed all of the short stories here.
My favourite was definitely "Charles", followed by "The Witch".
(EDIT: Now that I've had time to think about "The Lottery" my opinion's changed, wow what a brilliant short story.) "The Tooth" was also very interesting, showing how the pain of the tooth is literally taking over her life and becoming a separate entity.
I will definitely be seeking out some of Jackson's novels now.
*5/5*Another five star for Shirley Jackson. This woman is my Queen.
Charles's Mother who narrates the story begins to worry as Laurie starts to mimic Charles's many traits, so his Mother decides to speak to Charles's Mother, what is bothering Charles?The Lottery ~ The Lottery is the story of a small village who participate in the annual lottery, a ritual to ensure a good harvest.
Shirley Jackson's deliciously morose mind is perfection.
I very much enjoy this terror type of horror Jackson writes - little unsettling things in every day situations that pile up and end up overwhelming, and with no clear-cut ending. Good stuff
The Queen of writing the mundane into macabre tales.
I found three stories particularly disturbing; 'The Tooth', which highlights how reality can be distorted in times of stress or pain; 'The Witch', which was chilling in its simplicity and 'The Lottery', which had an ending that i didn't see coming at all and couldn't quite believe even after i'd read it.Memorable QuotesThe Tooth"Her tooth, which had brought her here unerringly, seemed now the only part of her to have any identity.
"The Lottery"Although the villagers had forgotten the ritual and lost the original black box, they still remembered to use stones."
A terrible toothache ends in a long bus trip to the dentist. Found this novella slightly "boring" or perhaps i missed the underlying theme of the story. Not my favorite novel by Shirley Jackson.

I just finished five of Jackson's stories included in the newest Penguin Modern Classics publication, and Tooth is really disturbing story and I re-read it again and again just to get a grasp of what the author wanted to tell me.
Intoxicated is simple but something that we can relate on how we perceive our future, and finally, The Lottery has an unbelievable outcome - I was stunned unexpectedly!That's it and I dont want to give all the best bits of these short stories that still linger on my mind...
Im glad that I have the opportunity to read Shirley's story even she died before I was born!
I love Shirley Jackson's style with all my heart and these short stories are no exception.
I know this is normally a good thing and also, this feeling of "What is happening here??
Why is everything so weird?" is one of the greatest assets of her writing, but with some of these stories I literally did not get what the aim was/what she was trying to say.
But so far it's more like "The Haunting of Hill House" to me (so: very good) and not like "We Have Always Lived in the Castle" (best.thing.ever).
The two stories that disturbs me: Charles and The Lottery.
Charles, however, did not surprise me for some reason.
Perhaps because I know some kids are capable of doing that.
It is Laurie's attitude towards his father that should have been some sort of trigger to warn her mother of Laurie's acts in school.The Lottery, though, throws me off.
People were talking so casually, kids were playing around, everyone is all cheerful and smiley; you would think that the Lottery is something good.
Who would have thought that being chosen means being stoned to death?No wonder other towns stop doing such 'tradition'.
Meh. I read this to get myself into a satisfyingly Halloween-ish mood since I think The Haunting of Hill House is one of the scariest books ever and We Have Always Lived in the Castle is also pretty darned creepy. But except for "The Lottery" (which I believe is in every single anthology of short stories in existence) I didn't find these very spooky. I also found them largely pointless. At least they weren't long.
I only read The Tooth and The Lottery. These are great stories. I don't think they push the bounds of literature or anything; they are simply delightfully macabre.Sort of like The Twilight Zone stories...It's hard to describe these stories without ruining them.I should read more of her work someday...[edit: just read The Intoxicated. It's super short and you can read it  here . Fantastic and resonates strongly with today and our bleak future...]
From the first, simple syllables of "The Tooth", through to the last, harsh paragraph of "The Lottery", Shirley Jackson's svelte collection of short stories is an enchanting and eminently digestible read. Not only do her stories demonstrate her adept knack of running a well-paced story in the briefest of spaces, but they also clearly show her complete grasp and mastery of the nuanced realities of human endeavour. Sharp, poignant, and as pleasing to mull over today as they were the day they were written.
The Tooth conjures up versions of everyday life that are disquietingly familiar and subtly unnerving, with Jackson creating the atmosphere of mystery amongst apparent normalcy.Violence hovers sinisterly over all of the stories, whether veiled within small town rituals or recounted with disturbing delight by the strangest of strangers and rather curious children that Jackson introduces us to.(Excerpt from full review of The Tooth by Shirley Jackson at For Books' Sake)
Well, this was pretty good, I guess. However, I can understand from this analysis that you have to be somewhat familiar with the 'Jim' character to truely understand 'The Tooth'. Oh well, there where some others stories in there which were good and written with great suspense.Some introduction would have been great, especially to the title story.
Shirley Jackson has a dark heart! The stories in this little book are so strange and original and thought provoking, I want more! 'The Lottery' is a brilliantly constructed story and left me sitting staring into space when I finished it. 'The Witch' made me laugh in horror and 'The Tooth' is a perfect descent into madness.
Turns out the short stories taught in Sec 1 introduced me to two of my favourite writers - Saki (The Lumber Room) and Shirley Jackson (The Lottery) - that I would more fully discover and appreciate many years later. I love the compactness of Jackson's stories and the economy of her words. The dark and twisted elements are chilling because they are cold and familiar at the same time.
Engaging to read, a page turner, creepily wonderful, hauntingly beautiful, and all those metaphorically exaggeration words. But Shirley Jackson is a great author because she can make simple story sounds mysterious and thrilling. Love her [3Giving this 4 stars because they are short stories and I am more of a novel girl.
So, I have a rather unorthodox interpretation of "The Tooth": I think (view spoiler)[Clara had an abortion. There's a few things I'm basing this on... the early use of the word "butcher"; the pearls Jim gives her, symbol of purity and innocence; the way she keeps telling strangers she's having a tooth pulled, like it's a story she's trying to keep straight. (hide spoiler)]
All of these stories are pitch perfect. Jackson can turn reality to horror on a dime before you know what hit you (maybe it was a stone?). What Stephen King does so well now, Jackson did with so much more efficiency; each story is a one-way rocket to the borderlands of reality, well-worth the fare.
Very.Disturbing. now I'll think twice before going to the dentist or accepting dinner invitation from that lovely couple next door or.. might just as well lock myself up in the house and board up the windows
This book left me like "What...the fuck...just happened?".And that's all I have to say about it, really. I don't even know if I liked it, because I'm so dumbfucked about this short story.
So disconcerting. She's a master.
Some of my favorite short stories are in this little collection. Truly unsettling and overall amazing. As always with Jackson, I highly recommend it.
I loved it the stories were great I really like the witch story very creepy
Interesting, although only The Lottery and The Witch truly gave me the creeps.
