https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76198.Sherlock_Holmes
Sherlock Holmes never disappoints. I absolutely love this detective.
Who could ever forget Sherlock Holmes, the legendary detective.
Sherlock Holmes has been played and interpreted so many times until we forgot the real character that Arthur Conan Doyle created.
I think in modern day, the lamest (yet more fun) version is the Hollywood one with Robert Downey Jr. While the closest one to the original is the UK version, 'Sherlock' with Benedict Cumberbatch as Sherlock and Martin Freeman as Dr.Watson.
Do your research." For all of you Sherlock Fans out there, you should try to watch the TV version.
I think they already launched the DVDs.
"The Sign of Four" shows the true bond that Sherlock Holmes and Watson have.
There are at two different places in life and the mystery that they are trying to solve show the difference between the two men.
Holmes is a cocaine addict and Watson tags along on the mystery to help Holmes stop doing cocaine, and to see that Holmes really does only uses power of observation, power of deduction and power of knowledge in order to have all the qualities of a detective to solve all the mystery.
3.5 stars. Well, this book took me long enough to read. While Sherlock Holmes is an absolutely entertaining and brilliant detective, and I flew through a lot of the stories in the book, I didn't really look forward to reading it, and found it too easy to put down. There are other authors and genres of books that I enjoy much more.
Holmes asks for the photograph of Irene as a reward for his trouble.“The Red-Headed League” (1891)In which the London criminal John Clay attempts to rob a bank (freshly infused with a shipment of French gold coins) by devising the following elaborate scheme: by getting a job in the London Pawn shop next to the bank in question under the alias of Vincent Spaulding and luring his employer--the red-headed Jabez Wilson--out of the pawn shop for several hours a day.
To begin, I found this reading to be rather difficult at a high school level, but still navigatable. I had heard of Sherlock Holmes before considering how many movies and TV series were based off of Arthur Conan Doyle’s popular character, but I had never read the book of course. This book was both challenging and enjoyable since some of the phrases and words that were used in the text were beyond my vocabulary at the moment. It should be said that this isn’t really a book that follows a chronol
I had heard of Sherlock Holmes before considering how many movies and TV series were based off of Arthur Conan Doyle’s popular character, but I had never read the book of course.
It should be said that this isn’t really a book that follows a chronological order, but is a collection of short stories with John Watson and Sherlock Holmes as the star cast each time.
Each story is similar to this in some way or another, but they all have unique quirks and interesting dialogue from Sherlock, Watson, and the other surrounding characters.
Finally finished all of the Sherlock Holmes books and short stories. They are a great read but I would recommend reading the short stories between other books as they can seem similar and formulaic.
Growing up loving Sherlock Holmes, especially the recent movies staring Robert Downey Jr., The Sign of Four acted as a window into how Holmes was in the beginning, before the influences of the 21st century.
As the murder case unfolds and Holmes and Watson go on journeys by carriage, steam boat, and foot, with Toby, their four legged guide, at the lead, Holmes' baffling knowledge and unconventional ways of looking at things, all while being witty and slightly condescending, never ceases to amaze.
The Sign of Four is the perfect choice if you're looking for a humorous mystery tale staring the infamous Mr. Sherlock Holmes.
The story that I read within this book was "The Sign of Four." My favorite part of the book was the beginning when Watson and Holmes talk about being a detective.
Holmes talks about mental stimulation and Watson discusses the potential side effects of "Mental stimulation." After this, Holmes inquires about Watson and his watch and he ends up being absolutely correct.
Watson gets angry and Holmes explains his reasoning and Watson is put in this place.
I thought that this was a very clever way of opening up the story and a very comedic one at that.
I got as far as finishing The Navel Treaty and I couldn't bring myself to read anymore.
I'm not sure why these stories are so popular as I just couldn't get into it at all.
Holmes is not a likeable character.
The way I described him to a friend was 'an arrogant know-it-all.' Maybe I'm missing the whole point but even after reading four more Holmes stories, I still wasn't believing in him.
Maybe I'll give it another chance one day but not now when my time is tight.
A lot of the stories in this version are found in the Barnes and Noble Leather-bound Edition, the only major differences are the Folio version has a bigger font and some illustrations through out.
They are fairly short stories, I think the longest is around fifty pages or so, eleven stories in this version which makes it a pretty quick read.
I would recommend this for anyone who is a fan of crime, mystery, murder type stories – but it’s pretty difficult to find the Folio versions while the B&N version is about $20 and you get all of the stories.
Sherlock Holmes and Dr. John Watson are on the case again, this time, starring in Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's "The Sign of Four". When Sherlock is approached by Mary Morstan in 1888 when her father disappears, He takes the case. With the initial clues, Sherlock and Watson are sent all over London, among other places to find her father. Once Sherlock finds him dead, the real case begins. Sherlock’s character is brought down to Earth after a dry spell from cases. His drug use and coping mechanisms are in the spotlight in a way that has never been showcased before.
I only read the story of The Sign of Four, and I did like the story because of the scientific concepts and intelligence the book shows by Holmes. It was not easy, however, to follow the sequences of the story because I could not easily understand the significance of every event at first. Sometimes I had to go back and read the page again. Overall the book was rich of knowledge.
I re-read these stories recently, and they're still as entertaining as my first encounter in the 1960's. This little collection satisfies, and is literally small enough to carry in a pants pocket, making it a wonderful book while traveling.
I have put off reading these for far too long (afraid of 1890's mothballs I guess?) but most stories are short enough to breeze through and not too confusing wth period jargon. I look forward to more!
The book I read was "Great Stories of Sherlock Holmes." It is not on Goodreads :(
Rereading for September///
38e909ef-3b4f-4c91-a384-230683fe61f4
Fun. Well written. Timeless. I love AC Doyle.
Excellent, of course! Now that my appetite has been whetted I want to read more!
Not only were the stories typically good Sherlock Holmes, but the introduction about the bibliography of Sir Doyle's books was highly entertaining.
Reseña aquí.
analisisnya lebih mudah dpahami, lbh simple dan masuk akal drpd cerita detektf lainnya exp. conan or bukuna agatha christie...
The best ever!!!
I've read Sherlock Holmes about every year of my education. Some of the stories are hard to follow, other easier to follow but they are all great! Elementary, my dear Watson!
Loved this so much!
Short, intriguing, entertaining. What more do you want?
