https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1373530.Love_and_Will
کتاب متشکل از سه فصل عشق، اراده، عشق و اراده استجذابت ترین بخشْ برای من عشق بود، قسمت اراده وارد مباحث نسبتاً تخصصی روانشناسی و رابطه درمانی با بیمار شد که دغدغه ام نبود اما مطالبش خواندنی بود، فصل سوم نیز حالت جمع بندی و نتیجه گیری داشتچرا باید وقت خود را صرف این کتاب کنید؟دیدگاه صادق، خشن، پخته و نوین مولف به عشق و تصمیم گیری قابل تأمل است. برای نمونه، ایشان بدون هیچگونه تعارف یا ابهامی عشق را مفهومی غیرعقلانی و معارض با ارادهی انسانی فرض میکند و سپس به شرح ادله میپردازد. همچنین تقسیم بندی ایش
همچنین تقسیم بندی ایشان از انواع عشق، فوق العاده استاز برجستگی های کتاب، چیرگی نگارنده بر مطالبی است که پیرامون آن قلم میزند، کتاب عشق و اراده عصاره ی یک عمر کار در حیطه روان شناسی ایشان می باشد_به نقل از مقدمه کتاب رولو می روانشناسی خود را به فلسفه، (اکثراً فلسفه باستان و اقلاً مدرن مثل کانت و شوپنهاور)، ادبیات(نمایشنامه، رمان، شعر)، اسطوره شناسی و واژگان شناسی آغشته میکند.
If I sneaked into Rollo May's garden (to all the Freudians out there, please, allow me the luxury of literalism here), I would ask him one question:“What did you intend by this book?”By which I mean, what did you hope to accomplish?If he merely wished to clarify a few things regarding the dominant theories of psychotherapy in the wake of Sigmund Freud, then I would say, hooray.
He was trying to write a self-help book in the mold of Thoreau's Walden.But if it is true for the introspective man that the neglected element in his personal psychoanalytic conception of his selfhood is the aspect of intentionality, which links his will to the external world (which I believe to be true!), then what am I to do with this knowledge?
Not my favorite existential psychologist, but Rollo May includes some stellar quotes in Love and Will about sex, ardor, and what it means to truly care about someone or something.
We are the independent men who, often taking our powers too seriously, continuously act and react, unaware that much of value in life comes only if we don't press, comes in quietly when it is not pushed or required, comes not from a drive from behind or an attraction from in front, but emerges silently from simply being together.""We love and will the world as an immediate, spontaneous totality.
We will the world, create it by our decision, our fiat, our choice; and we love it, give it affect, energy, power to love and change us as we mold and change it.
Also, thinking myself pretty messed up, the idea of studying psychology was attractive.
I had just gotten a job as a research associate and test administrator at a local psychiatric hospital, a job beyond my competence, so studying it seemed an objectively practical thing to do.At the time of reading the book was somewhat disappointing.
Later, back in college, a very committed scholar now, much more knowledgeable about psychology and a lot of other things, I read his co-edited Existence with great appreciation.
It took me a long time to drag my way through this, despite fits and piques of interest, and in the end, two of my three favorite quotes are from people other than May:" 'Apathy is a curious state,' remarks Harry Stack Sullivan; 'It is a way used to survive defeat without material damage, although if it endures too long one is damaged by the passage of time.
Apathy seems to me to be a miracle of protection by which a personality in utter fiasco rests until it can do something else'.""The moral problem is the relentless endeavor  to find one's own convictions and at the same time to admit that there will always be in them an element of self-aggrandizement and distortion.
Rollo May was an existential psychologist - this book provides some great insights.
This is the intensified openness to love which the awareness of death gives us and, simultaneously, the increased sense of death which love brings with it.
To love completely carries with it the threat of annihilation."Rollo May is deep!
I've always been fascinated by the link between mysticism and existentialism.
Perhaps existentialism is the only doorway to the mystical.
Rollo admits that the "intensity of consciousness has something in common with the ecstasy of the mystic".
The heart of man's dilemma, according to Rollo May, is the failure to understand the real meaning of love and will, their source and interrelation. Bringing fresh insight to these concepts, May shows how we can attain a deeper consciousness.An extraordinary book on sex and civilization....An important contribution to contemporary morality. I first read it as a kid when it first came out and I find it as relevant today as it was then....probably May's masterwork....rich with meaning.
همه آنچه هست، دلانگیز است. آفتاب از فراز کوه سر بر میآورد و سبزی شگفت انگیز با پرمایگی وافرش از دره ژرف سرازیر میشود. گویی درختان در طول شب اندکی قد کشیدهاند و علفزار با میلیونها سوسن وحشی سیاهچشم از هم شکفته است.این رفت و آمد بیپایان، بازگشت ابدی: روییدن، جفت گیری، مردن و دوباره روییدن را باز حس میکنم. و میدانم آدمیزاد هم بخشی از این رفت و بازگشت ابدی است، بخشی از اندوهش و بخشی از آهنگش.ولی شعور انسانِ جستوجوگر فرامیخوانَدش تا از این بازگشت ابدی برگذرَد. من نیز مانند دیگرانم جز آنکه جستوجویی مت
گویی درختان در طول شب اندکی قد کشیده‌اند و علفزار با میلیون‌ها سوسن وحشی سیاه‌چشم از هم شکفته است.این رفت و آمد بی‌پایان، بازگشت ابدی: روییدن، جفت گیری، مردن و دوباره روییدن را باز حس می‌کنم.
و می‌دانم آدمیزاد هم بخشی از این رفت و بازگشت ابدی است، بخشی از اندوهش و بخشی از آهنگش.ولی شعور انسانِ جست‌وجوگر فرامی‌خوانَدش تا از این بازگشت ابدی برگذرَد.
همواره بر این اعتقاد بوده‌ام که باید در جست‌وجوی حقیقت درونی بود با این باور که میوهٔ ارزش‌های آینده تنها زمانی قادر به رشد است که بذرش را تاریخ امروز ما افشانده باشد.

I read this back in 2010 and reread this month because it is easily the most seminal work on psychotherapy I have come across. I was lucky to have read it before beginning grad school, as it gave me invaluable perspective. I cant believe I haven't written a review for it. I'll try and update when I have it handy but the gist is that it's a must read: gorgeous writing, big ideas, timeless, and refreshing. It's a gorgeous read.
If you ever wanted to read about the banalization of sex in modern society, this is the book for you! While the opening chapters are about the ubiquity of sex, the other chapters explain how this is a counter to old victorianism, and how this affects people (it gives them existential crises! GREAT). The latter chapters deal more with love and will, and they were kind of complicated, so I might have to revisit this book.
I love Rollo May. He tells it like it is, psychologically speaking. He gets to the heart of our emotions on both of these subjects and our behavior in turn. Really good stuff.
Rollo May exhibits the power of existential thought as he blends literature, philosophy, linguistics, mythology and history to inform psychotherapy.
He provides insights into how meaning-making and myth are central to human thriving.
He elaborates on essential and fundamental concepts to the human condition: eros, daimonic forces, sex, intentionality, free will, integration, authenticity, and creativity.
This book asserts intentionality, phenomenolgy, mythology, artistry, and relationality as redemptive perspectives to the shortcomings of naturalism, determinism, fatalism, hedonism, materialism, and rationalism.
It is unfortunate that western civilization has seen a declined interest in existentialism since its heyday in the 60s and 70s.
Absurdly poetic for a book on human psychology, perhaps in accordance with the powerful and enigmatic meanings of the words in the title. Believing great artists (and psychotics) to be accurate psychological surveyors of society, May litters with the works of influential poets, and references various other art forms, to get his points across. Questions arise about the motive of such a book: if May intended to create a new paradigm with his conceptulization - which it kinda feels like he did - he may have fallen short... somewhere around 'valiant contribution to existential psychology'. Clever clever man.

Wow, Mr. May. Thank you for this.Love and Will, as necessary human emotions, have become almost indecipherable in our age of technology. Love and WIll showcases that all is not lost. Though the human experience has been confounded in our era of transition, Rollo May helps delineate the interconnectedness of both love and will. Without love, we cannot will. Without will, there is no love. It's a heavy read, but well worth the struggle... which may just epiomize the main point of the novel: both love and will are active verbs which require diligence, attention and faith.
recommended by another author--it's a series of essays written in the 1960s and before by Rollo May who was/is a psychologist or something--some of his ideas are really lovely, many seem very out of touch with current reality. The parts of the book about love were lovely--the parts about will rather difficult for me to follow.
"İlgi önemlidir çünkü günümüzde eksik olan şey odur. Üniversite kampüslerindeki ayaklanmalarda ve ülkenin her tarafına yayılan isyanlarda, genç insanların savaştığı şey, o sızan, yavaşça ilerleyen hiçbigr şeyin önemli olmadığı kanaatidir; üstün gelen o, kişinin hiçbir şey yapamayacağı hissidir. Tehdit, kayıtsızlıktır, katılmamadır, dış uyaranlara sarılmadır. Aldırış bunun panzehiridir."
This is one of my favorite books, a very enjoyable read. However due to the time period the book was published there was an obvious debilitation in my youthful love life. In peace with the old i don't regret coming across the beauty and knowledge of this book.
The is the most fundamental introduction to May and maybe also an original introduction to Existentialism, Phenomenology and Experiential Psychology.
This is one of the most challenging books that I have read in a long while.The work can best be described as an extended paper addressed to the field of psychoanalysis, focusing on the suite of 'positive' emotions, labeled as love (eros), and theoretical underpinnings of action and change.
The action and change he calls 'will,' and the chief of the underpinnings he refers to as 'intentionality.' He puts forth a case for his perspectives on these subjects, love and will, and then seeks to describe to his colleagues their application in therapy.[[Interestingly enough, many of the psychological structures posited by May here have counterparts to the metaphysical concepts described by Robert M.
No writer writes out of his having found the answer to the problem; he writes rather out of his having the problem and wanting a solution.
It consists of the deeper and wider dimension of consciousness to which the writer is carried by virtue of his wrestling with the problem.
Thus, the previous bind of repressing wishes because I cannot stand the lack of their gratification on one hand, or being compulsively pushed to their blind gratification on the other, is replaced by the fact that I myself am involved in these relationships of pleasure, love, beauty, trust.
A year later, I turned 16 and my family physician gave it to me as a gift, saying, "In the years to come, this book will come in handy for you." I went home, sat in my reading chair and flipped through its pages.
He says that our task is to unite love and will, but will often fights against love, because human will often starts with a 'no,"' and this willing begins against something.
May says, "Will comes in to lay the groundwork which makes a relatively mature love possible," (p.
Published at a time when the world of youth and academia were anxiosly looking to find tbeir inner selves and to uncover hidden love or to invest every inter-personal exchange or act of social wlfare with forever meaning.Which of course can be the case.At the very same time every person (of worth and value) would intuitively know he or she must rise above such mundanity and exist in pure action with meaning alone.
No mistakes, no fuzziness, no complication.May was much sought after as a visiting lecturer/guest speaker.And then came the time of 'greed is good'Phenomenology was my life before I was aware of it's signifiers and so it has continued.Will have to check on May, although I am aware he has passed on.
It's not his fault, that he takes the heteronormative, male position as central to life and leaves all other potential readers to cross-identify with his findings (which is hard to do when he tells me that there are inherent differences between the sexes, that we shouldn't pretend otherwise, and THEN he goes on to write about man and his problems).
He addresses the work of his colleagues by calling them "Professor" unless they're women, then they are "Miss." Even as he tries to posit the need for more encompassing attitudes and greater understanding of the human experience, he is woefully a product of his own time period in the language that he uses.
Belki okuması zevkli bir kitap olabilirdi eğer çeviren daha makul bir şekilde çevirseydi. Çeviriden olduğunu düşündüğüm bir bağlaşıklık eksikliği dolayısıyla kitaptan zevk alamadım
Especially the first half on love.
The centrality of 'the daemonic' to his work in practical existential therapy is original and magnificent.
This emphasis, on what might also be called Passion, gives Existential therapy a proper mission and he made good use of real life examples to show it's effectiveness.
They also place this daemonic force/Passion where it rightly belongs- a means of giving in love which tramples down death by death.
This was good and helped his existential project, especially for bringing will back to love from it's dull Descartian and disneyfied hiatus.
Starší kniha, která není špatná. Jenže nevím proč, ale stašně mě nudila. Proto jen tři hvězdy.
This sexual form of feelings offers only a facsimile of love rather than something which offers personal meaning.
He argues that, following a short period of time after World War I, we as a society became obsessed by sex and this has led to an emphasis on sexual activity; performance and technique.
"The emphasis, beyond a certain point, on technique in sex makes for a mechanistic attitude toward love making and goes along with alienation, feelings of loneliness, and depersonalisation."What I found interesting was his observation that sexual intimacy did not lead to emotional intimacy.
May’s book offers an in-depth explanation of what he means by the terms love and will, and his exploration of the concepts of eros, the daimonic, and intentionality forms the foundation of his ideas.Eros = “the original creator from which life comes,” “transcending all techniques,” “desiring, longing, a forever reaching out, seeking to expand,” “the power which attracts us,” or “draws us from ahead,” “new dimensions of experience which broaden and deepen the being of both persons,” “the longing to establish union, full relationship,” and “the power which drives men toward God.”The Daimonic = “any natural function which has the power to take over the whole person,” and thus may be a force which drives a person to do either good or harm.
