https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/235141.The_Structural_Transformation_of_the_Public_Sphere
In Germany, this sort of discussion only began later, after the July revolutions.Habermas' discussion is similar to (and a possible influence upon?) the work of Gordon Wood and Bernard Bailyn on the study of pamphlets, newspapers, and discussion halls in late 18th century in America.The decline of this system came with the intermingling of the public and private spheres, the rise of industrialism, the concentration of wealth, and curiously enough, the social welfare system.
However, with the rise of capitalism and the bourgeois class came the commercial trade in news (15), and a public sphere began to emerge between the private sphere of life and the government (23).
The public sphere became “refeudalized” by the state and others looking to gain publicity.The bourgeois public sphere has since passed away, and in its stead we have the modern notions of public opinion and publicity, as well as private individuals not engaged in a public, rational debate.
Habermas' bourgeois pubic sphere is a seminal contribution to the Frankfurt School.
This is the ur-text of publics theory. I'm glad I read it, like I'm glad when I eat healthy food.
Of these, Kant is perhaps the greatest influence, simply because for Habermas his work represents the "fully developed" theory of the public sphere.The Marxist cultural theory of the Frankfurt School is also an important influence, particularly on the second part of the Structural Transformation.The Frankfurt School was a group of philosophers linked to the Institute of Social Research in Frankfurt, active from the 1920s on.
This is a point that Habermas has recently conceded.Theorists have attempted to work out the implications of the Structural Transformation for modern political theory.
okay, yes its dense and wordy and translated from german. but it kind of is like a political sociology epic poem. smash together my high school modern european history class from high school with my freshman year college political philosophy course with the word bourgeois sprinkled throughout and you get a flavor. its fun to watch the public sphere evolve from feudalism to high industrial capitalism era. i'm sure i didnt glean whole swaths of it, but what i did get i enjoyed.
If this wasn't assigned reading I probably would've enjoyed this much more - that or I would've never picked it up. I'm glad it's over anyways.
He argues that the bourgeois public sphere began during the era of the coffee houses and salons, when ostensibly anyone could join in discussions of contemporary political, economic, and philosophical issues based on reason (of course in practice access to education, leisure, and reading material excluded many people from the public realm of debate).
I can't complain about the man's motives-- this is the sort of qualitative commentary that stands on its own merits rather than feeling like the speculations of some dude in a bourgeois university position in Paris or New York.But when he tries to claim that the public sphere has degenerated from its role in the early-capitalist era, I have to question Habermas' work.
To what extent did this public sphere play a role in the expansion of justice, and to what extent did it simply protect its own neck?
Looking for a "Golden Age" is almost always a bad idea, and I'm afraid Habermas slips into this trap.
So the thing about this is that I had to read the book and then in the next week my class and I had to read different articles all about the problems with the text and it was my job to discuss all the articles that found all the problems and talk about it at length.
I don't really know how to rate or even talk about this book, because I can't say that I enjoyed it but I do understand why it's an important foundation.
Even in all the articles we went over that talked about the problems with the text it still applauded what Habermas did as groundbreaking.
Habermas ideas about democracy and his attempt on giving historical background to public sphere was very appealing to me. The downside - his described 'democracy' reflects 'ideal' no realistic view on the subject
Must read
Only had to read a portion of this for my Suffrage/Sexuality class. but damn, it's so theory-heavy
After a definition of terms, he moves onto a multichapter review of the history of the development of critical public debate, its gradual broadening to include more segments of the rapidly expanding bourgeoisie, and then its coalescing into the origins of constitutional states.
However, dividing up the book would belie the fact that this is, at its core, a philosophical work.The second half shows the deep influence Adorno had on young Juergen as it lays out the ways in which the social welfare state and the corporate media compromise (or destroy) the existence of a true public sphere and propagandize the populace into a sort of political universe of false choices.
Habermas argues that these political spaces were something entirely new when they were carved out of the previously incommensurable spheres of private intimacy and an alienated and supreme authority.
While Marxists caricature the Bourgeois citizen as self absorbed and absurdly individualistic, in the aggregate the Bourgeoisie were capable of creating a new and open notion of society, the public.
Odd as it must be for Marxists, society's best hope might be in learning from the bourgeoisie of the late 18th century.If you are going to try Habermas, start here with the Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere.
This collapsed later with the development of industrial, mass society, which simultaneously turned the "masses" into the public and integrated public reason into the maw of the culture industry.
His account of the "public" as it developed from the literary public sphere into the writings of Hegel/Marx/Tocqueville/Mill et al is fascinating and seems right on.Where he's different from his teachers, and where he probably for that reason is weakest in this book, is his belief that a moment of transcendental, humanistic rationality might be salvaged from the initial public sphere of the pre-revolutionary period.
Agaknya menjadi usaha yang cukup sulit ketika barisan kiri baru di Amerika mulai berwatak anti kritik, tak menerima argumen di luar Marxisme dan Neo-Marxisme, dan mulai menuduh Bung Habermas ini sebagai pemikir Borjuis.
Mungkin karya Habermas tentang ruang publik, kategori-kategori masyarakat borjuis ini mencoba menjawab kebuntuan pemikiran mazhab kritis dan gerakan kiri baru yang menurutnya jatuh dalam ruang ideologis yang anti kritik.
Dalam karya Habermas tentang Ruang Publik, nampak jelas sejarah dan asal-usul menjadi matra analisis utama untuk melihat kelahiran masyarakat Borjuis di Eropa pada abad 17an.
Is hard to read this book, the writing is very complicated.
But if you read the book with someone it might be a very interesting book.
Habermas looks at the radical moment during the rise of the Bourgeoisie family and society and their struggle against the feudal order.
In this moment there seems to be the enlightenment promise of holding power accountable and making it more transparent.
This is central point but there is all kind of other stuff.
But he is questioning this point the entire time I think...

this book makes me not want to go outside.
but i'm already outside even if i feel barely visible here posting a book review.
i can tolerate the scaled-back coercion here, but it's just me deluding myself.
reading stuff like this courts irrational solipsistic longing.
okay, really i'm deluding myself because i can go outside and still never been inside the public, never perhaps initially recognized of being capable of reading, let alone posting a book review on a website.
but that's about blackness and a black public sphere, and we're not talking about that here, or yet.
I gave this book four stars because it is well considered and offers some valuable insights concerning the social organization of public opinion.
However, not only are there questionable depictions of the historical account of the "public sphere," but I cannot accept the normative indictment on social organization.
Habermas paints a convincing picture of what he considers the ideal form of civic participation of 18th century white culture.
Also, as a materialist dialectic on the human condition, I don't see how this idealized form could ever be re-captured.
The logic precludes it and so the normative aspect of the discourse is self-defeating.
This was a bit of a slog to get through, but I feel like I now know why it is cited so much. So much good stuff here in terms of how commonly accepted myths for instance of critical public debate elide political and personal realities. It traces both the establishment of the public sphere (at least as ideology) and it's dissolution. It would be particularly useful for people interested in literary taste (Jesi), performance (Elliott), or history as epoch. Read this, but buy a bag of m&ms to get you through the second half.

This book is SUPER academic and I remember reading parts of it in German loooooong time ago; back then I didn't really understand the point of it. However, since I was recently required to read it for school, and thanks to an awesome professor who really knows how to put things into a contemporary perspective, I really liked it in the end. This is not a bedtime literature, but once you get the grasp of it, it makes a lot of sense.
Just fantastic. I'm not saying I think Habermas gets everything right, at least not in this book, but he lays out the rise of the bourgeois public sphere quite usefully. Read this text, and then look at Calhoun's [ED] Habermas and the Public Sphere, especially Fraser's chapter. Later Habermas clears up a lot of it, but his later work takes a lot of time to get through.
TOUGH book to read but I read (and heard on audio CDs) summaries of what the book was about. So that made it intelligible for me. It is valuable for people trying to understand modern politics, particularly the interaction between "citizens", the media, the "public sphere" (between private homes and government agencies), and how these things have been transformed over the past few centuries.
I read this book to clarify my discussion of public and private, but it only proved useful as a way of understanding Habermas' view of how we lost sight of the modern project, the Enlightenment. That's all it's intended to do, I imagine, so I just needed something else, which I think I've found in Michael McKeon's "The Secret History of Domesticity."
If you like terrible writing, but provocative thinking and concepts, this book is for you--it also helps if you are interested in the public sphere or discourse in any way. This reading is a required keystone of any inquiry into "the public."
The first chapters are based on Foucault's genealogical approach which are really wonderful especially when the writer takes some etymological view. By the second chapter, one starts to learn about the social function of works of letter like literature, theater, music, and so on.
BRAIN MELTINGLY AWESOME.Interesting to read alongside the Dialectic of Enlightenment, the master-work of Habermas' Frankfurt School mentors. Habermas seems much more optimistic, as he's willing to rescue the idea of the public sphere even as he condemns its ideology.
