https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16536.The_Fabulous_Riverboat
It's a pretty okay novel, but it suffers from being a product of its times.
A lot of the action is mostly finding new ways to build tech on the extremely huge world of reincarnated humans from all time periods showing up at the same time here, but we've moved along far enough that nations are being built and fortresses and boundaries are in full effect.
Of course, this is riverworld.In 1971, the time when the novel came out, we're forced to face our worst nightmares (*laugh*) of an entirely black nation wanting to go completely isolationist from the honky.
In The Fabulous Riverboat, Farmer tells the tale of one person whose is uniquely suited to find the river's headwaters, riverboat captain and famous Earthly author Sam Clemens (a.k.a. Mark Twain).
Since there is virtually no metal on the planet, it will also give Clemens an unbeatable edge when it comes to battling the various warlike societies that dominate the Riverworld.But Clemens is not alone in his quest for the iron, which arrives on the planet in the form of a giant meteorite.
Farmer seems to take direct quotes (often from Twain's books) and place them awkwardly into the conversation, which only makes conspicuous how dull the rest of the dialogue is.Likewise, the many conflicting cultures are oversimplified and whitewashed.
Farmer includes the grandest political players to ever take the stage, and then reduces them to petty warlords.The whole plot is moved along by a mysterious and literal deus ex machina, and despite the buildup of the first book, Farmer brings us no closer to uncovering the grand mystery.
Farmer strains credibility by having him quickly learn human speech (impossible even for normal humans who were not exposed as children, let alone a pre-human larynx).
Well this book was a bit of a disappointment to me.
There were still scenes I thought interesting, like the relation ship between Sam and his earth wife and I liked The Big guy but hated the way he talked.
It was hard for me to understand what he was saying, but overall I was just glad to end it.I will give book 3 a try.
I am reading it right now and glad to be back with Richard F.
Maybe that was another reason, so many new people and I did not really like Sam as much.
3,5
For example, we see Joe Miller gradually becoming more cynical and humorous as he spends time with Mark Twain and we watch a 20th century engineer teach Twain how to store electricity to power the riverboat.What’s not fun is that Philip Jose Farmer takes every opportunity to provide information about each of the characters who’s a real historical figure, and this is inelegantly done:"I read about him in school!” von Richthofen said.
If you look at the book cover, you’d expect to be exploring Riverworld from the deck of Mark Twain’s steamboat, but the boat finally gets finished at the end of the novel.It’s the wonderful world-building and intriguing questions that make this series so compelling: Why has humankind been resurrected?
He is on a mission to find some iron so he can build (and captain) a riverboat to the end/beginning of the river.
He gets some help from "X", one of the "ethicals" (nonhuman) who is responsible for the rebirth of all the people on Riverworld, but one who disagrees with what's going on.
X says he arranged for a meteor to land on Riverworld so that Sam would have a sufficient source of iron and other ores to get his riverboat built.
On Riverworld, Sam has acquired a blood brother -- Joe Hill.
I don't know how to to history this interpretation of him is but as a character in a book he is amazing.
There are times where you feel sympathy for him, hatred, and frustration at how he self sabotages himself.His loyal friend and body guard, the Titanthrop Joe Miller steals the show in every scene he's in, so much so that one of the few complaints I'd ever muster of this book is that the second half uses him less and less for little apparent reason.And of course there is the main antagonist, King John.
Again, I'm not sure how true to history his portrayal here is but Farmer makes him out to be such a devious backstabbing bastard that it's hard not to adore him as Clemens main antagonist.
IL primo romanzo è meraviglioso.questi altri interessanti gradevolisi leggono perché si vuole sapere masochisticamente come ne verrà fuori l'autore.
Farmer's handling of characters in the first book of the series did not suggest to me that he would be able to build up a worthy Clemens.
Likewise, I wasn't enthralled with the idea of reading another novel of river-adventures on Riverworld.
Farmer surprised me, however, with his attempts to build up the individuals of Riverworld.
The downside to those two made this a decidedly negative reading experience.The protagonist: Put aside the question of whether or not Farmer captured the essence of Clemens.
Riverworld civilization: The first book in the series establishes that the world (or universe) has changed.
I don't know much about Mark Twain but he was insufferable in this story. The whole thing was incredibly boring -- blah blah angst, blah blah battles, more battles, yada yada factories, pinch of racism, and end. I feel like this whole thing could have been a page or so explanation for the next book. As it is, it was 250+ tedious pages that added very little to the world building. To Your Scattered Bodies Go introduced such a cool world and tantalizing questions and this was a really disappointing follow up.
When a person is killed in riverworld they are resurrected the next day somewhere else on the river.Since the world contains everyone who has ever lived, Farmer is having some fun by making many of his characters actual historical figures.
So he gets the people in his land to build a boat an he explores the river.
Joe is of that race, has a huge nose and talks with a lithp, er lisp.Sam has an ambition of building a riverboat, but there is no or very little metal on this planet.
The rest of the book is taken up with there struggles to build Sam's dream boat.
The last time I read this book was probably 25 years ago.
If you asked me, I could probably reliably narrate most of the plots of each book in the series, enough to maybe even make YOU want to read it.Some books from long ago, you go back and re-read and it's a pleasure.
You discover new things about the book, you remember why you loved the book in the first place, it becomes even more a part of your heart and soul.
Some books, you re-read after many years, and you rediscover new things, or notice things you may have missed (In Judy Blume's Blubber they call the teacher A BITCH.
In the process, they build a nation and become involved in war and intrigue with their neighbors.I was enjoying this novel.
Then Farmer introduces the neighboring state of Soul City and its leader, Elwood Hacking, and derails the whole thing.
Hacking is a former slave who is founding an all-black state where "soul brothers and soul sisters can loaf and invite their souls." He is irrational and reactionary.
Given his fair treatment of other black characters such as Hugo Firebrass and Jill Gulbirra (from the next book in the series), I am not convinced that Farmer is an unqualified racist, but I was puzzled and disquieted by this aspect of the novel.
One of the best stories I ever read.
I know people that read books hear this a lot..."you won't be able to put it down".In this case I found that to be very true.
This planet has a river that runs all around it.This sets Mr. Farmer (the writer) up to write one hell of a set of stories/books.
The reader can also learn a great deal in a fun way.
Anyone that like to read will eat it up.
All Positive,roballen2(This review applies to all the books in the "Riverworld" series.
I've read them all and each one is great)

This, the second volume of Farmer's Riverworld series, follows Richard Burton's narrative in To Your Scattered Bodies Go and precedes The Dark Design. Samuel L. Clemens, aka Mark Twain, is the protagonist of this novel.While the concept of the Riverworld mightily impressed me at the outset of the first volume, successive stories began to drag. Sure, there's a mystery--a lot of mysteries!--to be solved, but nothing was quite so exciting as the concept which set the stage for the series.
This book in a weird way reminds me of playing strategy games like the CIV series. It is all about resource allocation. Spend to much building wonders and your neighbors will stomp you into the ground. Too much on trade and you won't have any left to build. Combine this with 'rebuilding civilization' themes which are always a favorite and some politics and espionage makes this an excellent sequel.
Reminded me a lot of the John Carter books. Books tends to get tied up describing a lot of detail and sometimes repetitious. But it does have fun characters and a fair bit of action (be it war). The romance isn't well done. Technology is surprisingly accurate for an almost 45 year old book. Not sure if I'll read anymore.
Why Mark Twain?!?!!
Adds a new dimension to the expression "sell someone down the river". Oh, and in this novel Hermann Goering is a good guy.
That’s why the last book gets only 1 star, it’s a poor conclusion to a series that started out so strong.Nearly all the characters with dialog are genuine historical figures.
His character is the backbone of the five-book series, making most of the important discoveries, outwitting or fighting the antagonists etc., which is fitting.But then we also get Mark Twain/Sam Clemens… Clemens is perhaps the second most important protagonist, and one of the book series’ greatest weaknesses.
I read this because I expected it to just be the second half of  To Your Scattered Bodies Go , but it turns out that both books are just the first part of  The Dark Design  (or so it seems).I liked the overall setting and story - they are sitting on the only iron in the entire Riverworld, which both gives them a huge advantage and makes them a huge target - and they actually have something to work towards. This also puts more of the "sting" back in death, because even though they would come back
Presumably the geography of the Riverworld is that of a river winding around and around the world, such that in order to go 1 winding-width to the North, you have to circumnavigate the entire planet once; if that's the case, it would make much more sense to build a fleet of zeppelins or airplanes or something, so that you can make the northward journey "as the crow flies".From a character perspective, Joe Miller is great, as were Firebrass, Cyrano and basically most of the rest of the cast except Clemens.
In the Riverworld, everyone who has ever lived has been resurrected by persons - and for reasons - unknown.
This second book of the series centres on Mark Twain's attempts to build a riverboat to find the source of the river.For a novel that spends most of it's time discussing how to recreate 20th century technologies on a resource-poor planet, it's a remarkably good read.
The main fun comes from the fact that with this world, Farmer can - and does - throw together historical characters from wildly diverse times and places to watch how they react to each other.
Sometimes it can feel a bit clunky, but overall it works very well indeed.

Even more than the first book, this story shows off both the best and the worst of humanity: King John is the most treacherous monarch ever while Sam Clemens pushes forward to create the most amazing creation of the Riverworld, a great riverboat. Yes, humans can achieve remarkable things even with limited resources, but then they must fight to see who gets to control those remarkable things. Unfortunately for Sam Clemens, King John was never this capable in real life--I would have used John's archrival, Philip II, instead.
Mi aspettavo di più da questo secondo romanzo del ciclo: in effetti, esaurita la novità della Resurrezione dell'Umanità nel mondo Fiume, diventa un semplice libro di avventure, neanche molto interessante, in un'ambientazione extraterrestre; tra l'altro il livello di progresso scientifico in questo nuovo mondo, mi sembra poco credibile.L'evolversi, del paese di Parolamdo, verso uno stadio di società meccanizzata ed industrializzata, con i suoi lati negativi , tipo la distruzione dell'ambiente naturale, mi ricorda un poco l'Isengard di Saruman del Signore degli Anelli.
I enjoyed this more as a teenager back in the 1980s. Rereading it today, I can see that despite its brilliant and original concept, there are some flaws in its execution. This may be due to the fact that this novel was pieced together from two novellas originally published in 1967 and 1971 in science fiction magazines. Still, I highly recommend it for fans of speculative fiction.
As I wrote in my review of The Dark Design, I read the Riverworld books in sequence. To Your Scattered Bodies Go was a fantastic romp in true Farmer style.The Fabulous Riverboat was an equally good read, I think because Farmer was still world-building. I did have a sense it was getting a bit thin towards the end, though.
I absolutely loved the first book in the series, and this one fails to disappoint. It's an excellent story, Farmer was hopefully praised for it and it's a shame it wasn't nominated for the Hugo as was its predecessor.
