https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32106.The_Convenient_Marriage
Ugh!) and a dastardly villain*a hero who's twice the age of the heroineAlso, romances where one of the main characters is committing adultery, regardless of the circumstances (here it's that they've agreed in advance to a marriage of pure convenience), always have a huge strike against them in my book.
To be fair, this story is more of a comedy than a romance, but still.
Anyway, it all adds up to way too many things I found dislikeable about this novel.
Frankly, I skimmed through most of it.Who knew a marriage of convenience story could be so boring?
Ahhhh, reading a Heyer romance is such a comfort during tough times.
I love entering her world.The impetuous and very young Horry Winwood marries Lord Rule (who is old enough to be her father) to save her family from ruin.Fast paced, farcical & funny.
The way GH treats Horry's stutter didn't bother me so much this time around and her sisters are some of the best "supporting actress" women that GH has ever written.What I did have trouble with was the character of the villainous Lord Lethbridge (view spoiler)[ and that there seems to be almost a reconciliation between him & Rule after their duel.
The one where the notorious rake Lord Rule decides to marry the pretty Winwood sister, but the reckless one, Horatia, persuades him to marry her instead.
She gambles; her brother Pelham gambles (in fact, his gambling is the reason the Winwood sisters are prepared to marry Rule to begin with); hijinks ensue.Horatia is kind of an idiot, isn't she?
It's a little creepy to think of someone so immature being married at all.I did like Rule; he reminded me of  Diana Wynne Jones's Chrestomanci, with his vagueness and his deceptive intelligence and the laziness that makes everyone underestimate him.
Intrigued by this young, brave girl, he is tempted and soon sees the logic, agreeing to her proposal.The new Countess of Rule wastes no time in becoming the sensation of the bon ton dressing to the nines, attending parties, the opera, gambling huge sums and getting into all sorts of scrapes while her husband continues to pay attentions to his mistress Lady Caroline Massey.
With patience and fortitude, Lord Rule councils his stubborn young bride against excess and the dangerous liaisons of Baron Robert Lethbridge, a known rake with a history with the Drelincourt family.Determined to teach her husband a lesson for his interference, she defies his wishes attending a masked ball.
I know I will be yanking out my copy to reread that scene for years to come."It's v-vulgar to care about Settlements, but you are very rich, are you not?""Very," said his lordship, preserving his calm."Yes," nodded Horatia.
And yes, I really would have loved it if she'd managed to see one single thing for what it was without Rule having to patiently explain it to her.
And, yes, I could definitely have done with a handful more scenes in which Rule and Horatia were, say, in the same room together (particularly at the end).
- Hero is 35, heroine is 17.
At one point, the hero says the heroine treats him "like an indulgent father", barf.
- The heroine, Horatia, is an idiot.
There was really nothing likeable about her, which is rare among Heyer heroines.
The hero, Rule, is also unlikeable.
Plus, other heroes have done the "lazy aristocrat" much better than Rule, including Alverstoke (Frederica), and Alastair (These Old Shades).- Hero and heroine had no chemistry.
I'm really not sure what Rule saw in Horatia.
Actually, the hero didn't even have chemistry with his mistress.
She did the whole marriage of convenience thing muchhhh better in Friday's Child.
After 75 agonizing pages, had to put in the "did-not-finish" shelf.Who knew Heyer could be so bad?OK, on to some of the main problems with this book:Well, the heroine stuttered.
Hey, I've got nothing against stuttering (I did it for a while a long time ago), b-but I d-don't w-want to r-read it in a b-book e-every s-sentence the h-heroine m-makes.
Heroine is a stupid, vapid one.
I like Heyer heroines when they are mature and charming or when they are frisky and coltish.
He's not very charming or dashing or witty like a Heyer hero can be.
Dangerous Liaisons made light with absurdity.There I was in the middle of reading some dreadfully bleak and twisted books when I realized that a bit of fluff would clear the palette.
I suppose it's better than not realizing her idiocy at all, but nevertheless, eye-rolling and made me want to smack her upside the head.
Frankly, the secondary characters had all the good lines and saved it.
The hat is beyond and really needs to be read properly in context to be enjoyed.
It was a good fight -- I don't remember a better.
I enjoyed this historical romance very much. It was a quick read by a master narater on youtube. The book was full of intreague, tretury and sometimes misguided and often unrequited love.I recommend this book to all. I am looking forward to reading more of her work.Enjoy and Be Blessed.Diamond
It took me quite some time to get through this audio book - but not because it wasn't delightful!
I cannot seem to find the time to listen to books as well as I can find the time to actually sit and read them.
But, this audio version narrated by Richard Armitage was very entertaining.
I just love his voice.
He really adapted to the different characters so well and I found myself smiling throughout.
I enjoyed my first Georgette Heyer novel and would read another.
Any narration completed by Richard Armitage would be a bonus no matter what the title!
I loved Horry from the first moment she is introduced.
Horry has two older sisters and a brother.
However, he too really loves his sister and the things he does for her in the book are hilarious.
He brings a lot of humour into the story.I loved the way Lord Rule treated Horatia.
I loved every moment with them.
From their first encounter and throughout the whole book, there isn't a single moment I could point out and say he shouldn't have done this or that.On the other hand, the reason I couldn’t fully enjoy this story was Caroline Massey.
And to think, were it not for my friends on Goodreads, I may never have experienced it, let alone known that I was going to endeavor to get my hands on all of the Georgette Heyer novels within my grasp, despite having never even heard of the author previously.
What has been my education if it did not include the works that established the historical romance genre?
The genre I fall back on whenever nothing else will do these days?
And now I will comfort myself by downloading more of her lovely stories...hopefully also narrated by the inimitable Richard Armitage.
Never have I felt more sympathy for the two villainous characters intent on ruining the airheaded, wasteful, absolute horror that is Horatia Winwood.
If the author had been intent on satirizing the decadent, atrocious upper classes of England in the 18th century, interested only in gambling, dandifying themselves, and conducting affairs, while the world around them burns, this would have been an absolute success.
Too bad because I was initially enchanted by the humorous writing and the obviously Herculean effort to render the historical setting as vividly as if one were stepping through the pages of this book straight into an English drawing room of the Regency period where the butler would offer you a glass of ratafia while the gentlemen admired your newest powdered, lavender-scented coiffure a la Grecque a boucles badines.
The story and the plot can definitely be understood from the blurb and many amazing reviews from previous readers, so I would focus only on my take on this one.Though many hilarious moments in the book, I found it chiefly lacking in the romance element!
Also, the story has larger elements dedicated to the secondary characters, and a continued and flowing tale of the hero and heroine is not experienced here.
I would also have liked to see what becomes of Charlotte!Over all the book is a good and diverting read, goes without saying that writing is of course splendid and superior having come from GH's pen.
When Horry goes to the remote, sophisticated Earl of Rule to offer herself as the Family Sacrifice in her older sister's place, the earl surprises everyone by accepting her proposal. The fun begins there. I think it would have been perfect except for the utterly cliche Evil Mistress, that seems to have been a standard of romances at that time. The scenes with her are just painful (you want to take a shotgun to the earl) but other than that, it's great fun, and the Georgian era is beautifully evoked.
Rule originally intended to marry the beautiful older sister Elizabeth, but she is in love with an army officer named Edward.
On the other hand, there may be some intended social commentary on the emotional unhealthiness of a society in which behavior is so artificial that it is more acceptable to discuss one's affairs than one's feelings for a spouse.One thing I liked was Heyer's rejection of the creepy "forced seduction" or "I rape you because I love you" theme that has hung around in romance for way too long.

Horry is just allowed to be a typical brand of upper class woman who I have no doubt existed in the late 18th century but she's still awesome and has plenty of agency.Rule is a bit less of a character.
To Rule's surprise, she confesses all and it's the most delightful thing and if only they'd kissed and it all ended there!The book would've basically been a novella, but it would probably have made five stars.
Then we get a lovely, lovely, marvellous declaration scene between Horry and Rule and I could almost forgive all the boredom before.Hence, four stars.
1. This is basically  April Lady except with a more sassy heroine and slightly more interplay between Rule and Horry.
(Of the two, I think I prefer this one, but still: Heyer's skill does not lie in the married books.)2.
First, this could have been slightly more palatable if Horry hadn't turned out to be basically a turnip.
Pre-marriage, she appears to be slightly more intelligent than your average vegetable, but the moment she marries that's all out the window.
Give me a wry, dry Horry and this book could have soared.
Proper review coming :DAnother good read from Heyer!!!
I loved Rule, especially in the second half of the book when he finally starts to do things and everyone thinks he doesn't know anything but he does and I thought he was pretty good at manipulating people...
They make the story ten times more fun and interesting.
Their habit of betting on every thing was just too funny!!Overall, I thought "The Convenient Marriage" was a very pleasant read, definitely recommended for Heyer fans.
Horatia's stutter may become annoying, but it's part of her and of her personality, and just keep reminding yourself that Rule thought it was "charming"!
A wonderful tale about the incorrigible Miss Horatia Winwood.
She often acts without thinking first and without regard for the social requirements of a situation.
After stepping in to offer herself, when the Earl of Rule offers marriage for her sister who loves another.
She is off on a series of unfortunate events and social follies.
Her husband however is quite capable of handling any situation.
However when he goes away Horatia gets herself into a very awkward situation and has to enlist the help of family & friends to prevent a scandal.
A well written entertaining story with a colourful cast of characters.
But as I read, I realized that this was far superior to 99% of romance novels I've ever read.The male lead, Lord Rule, is pretty cool.
"rescue" Horatia), and there were several times when I found myself actually laughing out loud at what was going on.The one drawback of the novel is that the heroine Horatia is somewhat immature, idiotic and annoying and I could never quite understand why someone like Lord Rule would fall in love with her.
Hero is old (34) which is a bit more of an age difference than I usually like but I thought it seemed wonderfully romantic at the time.Fast forward to NOW.
If Richard Armitage hadn't been reading this, (that slightly raspy yet velvety voice *fans herself) it would have been a DNF.
How we feel about a book really does depend on where we are at in a particular time in our lives.
Much of Georgette Heyer may now be largely incomprehensible and unlikeable for me, (and I really have read every single one of her HRs).


This book starts out with a hilariously honest conversation between a suitor and the younger sister of the girl he wants to marry.
At first this seems like a flaw, but then it becomes awesome because her brother likes to bet on EVERYTHING.When Horatia is running away from a man who kidnapped her and who she thinks she killed she runs into her brother and his friend and the conversation goes like this:Horatia: Oh, good, it's my brother, Pelham!
I think I killed this lord!Pelham: I bet you didn't.
I don’t want to give too much away about the scene, but I will say that almost every moment warmed my heart just a little more, and by the time the Earl of Rule had agreed to marry Horatia (and no, that isn’t a spoiler, just look at the title…), I had decided that this scene was the sweetest thing I had ever read.
Despite her imperfections which can be ascribed to the inexperience of a teenager, Horry has a good heart, a fierce loyalty to those that she loves, and a sort of innocence about her that is endlessly endearing.Lord Rule was of an altogether different character to that of his young wife, and there were times near the beginning of the novel where I wondered why I even liked him.
You concentrate on the skillful reading and characterization of the talented reader (trying to think of his penetrating blue eyes and gorgeous look), on the intriguing tones of his voice but also on his involving conveying the entertaining story in his elegant Northern – British accent and… you find yourself totally immersed in 5 hours of heavenly delight.
This is not the proper way to start a review of Georgette Heyer’s THE CONVENIENT MARRIAGE However, I hope you’ll forgive my informal , atypical review since Richard Armitage and Georgette Heyer together can stir my enthusiam!
"What I want to know is why did Horry hit you on the head with a poker?" Lethbridge gingerly felt his bruised scalp.
The Viscount surveyed the supper-table with a knowing eye.
She manages to make lots of trouble for herself, thoroughly manipulated by the villain of the piece, a man looking for revenge upon her husband.I found Horry adorable, loved the Earl, and though you want to shake both of them at various times, it isn't in a 'you're annoyingly, badly written' sort of way.
A romance is not seen in any of these goings on.If Ms. Heyer would have just focused on writing a comedy about Horatia’s brother the Viscount, who, by the way, takes up a great deal of the book anyway and is the other story that is being told, it would have been a much better book.
It is not that a book can’t have two stories going on at the same time, but if it is to be done, both story lines need to be developed sufficiently so that it all makes sense.
