https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1097967.Bedelia
This was such a fun book!
It reads like an old b&w suspense film (actually this was made into a movie in 1946), and I enjoyed every minute of it.Basically, we have a Black Dahlia type woman who has already buried four or five husbands, now contentedly married to her latest and acting like the all-doting, butter-wouldnt-melt-in-my-mouth, if-you-ever-leave-me-I'll-die, Suzie Homemaker.Which really makes the story all the more chilling.
And then a heavy snowstorm blocks all roads, downing power lines and bringing both suspicions and opportunities to their inexorable climax...So I was vaccilating between a four and a five for this, but I think I'll give it a five because for its genre it really was perfect.CONTENT:G
Classic pulp fiction. Don't expect to get any sleep till you're finished reading this one - impossible to put down thriller.
Charles, a dry, upstanding New England architect, cannot believe his good fortune in having married the stylish, sumptuous, dimpled Bedelia, a young widow he meets by chance on a trip to Colorado.
The two settle into Charles's old family home in Connecticut, and Bedelia succeeds in charming the town and impressing everyone with her style and domestic flourishes.
However, after a few months of marriage, Charles becomes more aware that aspects of Bedelia's background don't add up.
Was her black pearl ring fake, as she claimed, or was it actually REAL!?
A terrific example of 1940s noir fiction, and a real page-turner.
Bedelia is the perfect wife, who makes the perfect home life and can do no wrong in her husband's eyes.
She tells her past in little stories scattered throughout the years, each of them outstanding tales of the poor Bedelia who has lead a sorry life.
Just like all Bedelia's mysterious husbands before him....So, who is Bedelia?
Did she kill her husbands, and will she do it again?This book really stuck with me, I'm still puzzling everything out in my head, trying to find out who Bedelia truly is and why tragedy followed in her wake.
Caspary is a natural writer but not much really happens: a lot of intense repressed-husband and maybe-psychotic-wife conversations and a climactic twist that I found neither thrilling nor convincing.
Psychologically nuanced though it is, and possessed of some nice storm-whipped-country-house-in-harsh-northern-winter atmosphere, it’s a little turgid as a thriller, and not quite well-wrought enough to stand up without the genre scaffold.
I liked it – the characters are fresh and alive and Bedelia herself is chilling – but it goes on too long and harps on the same things and doesn’t quite sparkle enough to get me to love it.
I loved this. I couldn't stop reading it. As far as I can tell, this state of sublime reading happens to me at most twice a year. There were many moments in this which reminded me of my beloved My Cousin Rachel by Daphne Du Maurier. And Bedelia is from several years before. Just saying. The more you know about the past, the more you see that nothing exists in a vacuum,that everything has precedents.
And we soon learn that Ben isn't an artist at all but an insurance detective on the trail of a Black Widow character who has engineered the "accidental" demise of at least four previous husbands .
Charlie's in line to be her next victim.The book's not a mystery novel but a suspenser (the section where Charlie and Bedelia are snowed-in alone particularly so), and also a character study of especial interest because, however devious and murderous Bedelia is, at the same time Caspary manages to make us feel a sneaking admiration for her -- or at least some sympathy.
Recently I realized I'd managed not to read either of the two Caspary novels upon which the movies are based, and decided it was time to redress that situation.
I love the Femme Fatale series, but was disappointed with Bedelia--it's not "bad"--just not as good as I'd hoped. Then again, once you've read "Laura" can any of the author's other books ever measure up? Only three stars, but still a good read.
One of the most famous film noir movies of the 1940's was Laura, based on the novel by Vera Caspary.
It made her famous.
Bedelia was written a few years later, and also filmed.
Bedelia is an amazing psychological thriller.
The tag line for this book was: She Seduces Men...But Does She Kill Them?
And there you have your plot.
I was surprised by a major plot twist.And I was surprised by the ending.
What more can you ask from a novel?
If psychologigal suspense is what you crave, then read this book and see how it is done.
More than anything, the author history at the end convinced me to look further into the "Femmes Fatales" series, and I'm looking forward to reading the other books that The Feminist Press has done reprintings of.
Of course, since we are reading a Vera Caspary novel, this can only mean that one and all are headed for trouble, and somebody will turn up dead.BEDELIA is “the other famous Caspary novel” after LAURA.
Like that other work, it is filled with twists and turns that cause the reader to wonder who is really guilty…and if the guilty party had any other choice in a world of limited options.
Like LAURA, many readers may already know those details going in.
I cannot say whether that detracts from the enjoyment because I did not know them, and I had a great deal of fun as the story unfolded.
The act of a perfect submissive, bouncy, loving housewife who secretly was a homicidal manic, but never let her mask slip.
There are independent women who work (the book was written in the 40s but set in 1913) who discuss how men don't respect women's independence and just want someone submissive.
The independent intellectual woman who works at the paper is dismissed as an old maid, despite being the same age as Bedelia when she marries (in her 30s).
I thought it was interesting the way the "modern" working woman was given the "old fashioned" asthetic.
definately belongs on any shelf with Double Indemnity or Nightmare Alley. It's a shame the film doesn't exist anymore.
When I saw that Bedelia was about a woman who killed her husbands (aka a Black Widow) I was immediately intrigued because that kind of mystery is right up my alley.I really enjoyed reading this book, and I really like Caspary's style.
She's a fascinating character and she uses her "feminine wiles" to trick men into thinking she's harmless, sweet, and loving.
She's a ruthless character without being overtly cruel.
I really enjoyed the way Caspary built up the tension between Bedelia and Charlie, and I liked the way she brought it to a conclusion.
Vera Caspary's Bedelia provides the best kind of pulp: murder/femme fatale/deception.
This is in part because the dramatized story points at real problems - particularly for women in the mid-1900s.On its surface, the story follows the newly-married couple of Charlie and Bedelia Horst.
But when anything is perfect, something is surely awry.And then her murders start surfacing.Without giving too much away, Bedelia uses the air of domestic femininity to mask her behind-the-scenes scheming.
Caspary uses the character's criminal past as a plot device to dig at real issues.
How do issues of social mobility and independence manifest themselves for women in this period?
'Bedelia' is an excellent example of the femme fatale - sexy but dangerous. I was hooked throughout, and can't wait to explore this more in the lecture/seminars.
Like other readers, I got to "Bedelia" after enjoying "Laura." They are very different books, though.
"Laura" is a mystery and this one is more suspense.
Not much happens, but the book still really held my interest.Caspary writes with skill.
I especially liked her attention to details, even down to the lacing on Bedelia's corset.
The things in this story are tangible, especially clothing and implements of domestic living.
People are less crisply delineated, aside from Charlie and Bedelia.
I will read more of Caspary.
Choosing it because I wanted to learn why Bryan Fuller had named one of his characters on Hannibal after the main character of this book, I thought that maybe it was going to be about a strong, mysterious and potentially dangerous woman.
Bedelia is a very bizarre character and she enjoys mindgames and playing with fear.
She is scary and knows how to play with her sweetness to make men forget about how evil she is.
A good read, it kept me wanting to know more and it gave me a few chills for sure.
I had high hopes for Bedelia going into the read, having heard some high praise for Laura by the same author.
I just didn't like the main character...actually i didn't like any of the characters.
except for Bedelia, the visual essence of feminine beauty and servitude.
the reader never gets into bedlia's head, which i guess helps the plot, though her motives seem too obvious, maybe, to be real.
the weather and the very tight knit community help with the feeling of claustrophobia.
i think the book is maybe most interesting in contrast to Laura.
The latest book in my vintage noir kick, and my first by Vera Caspary (love finding women writers in this genre!). It didn't disappoint at all. A really interesting read about a black widow but not at all cliche or suspenseful in the standard ways you'd expect such a story to be. The ending was genius and perfectly manipulative.
Charlie Horst travels to Colorado after the death of his mother and returns home to rural Connecticut with his new wife, Bedelia. She's charming and devoted to Charlie. A few minor inconsistencies in what she tells her husband and neighbors don't matter, do they? A fast moving thriller by the author of Laura with a very interesting afterword about the author and her books.
Written in 1945, this is a crisp psychological thriller by Caspary. Taut and nuanced, the story centers on the final seduction a serial murderer undertakes. The reader watches as the criminal, comparable to a black widow in her disguise and cunning, uses all her charms and skills to escape the mundanity of one world for another. Fascinating.
This is a mystery of character, and as such is fascinating for much of the narrative. The plot, however, winds up rather perfunctorily and predictably. A good movie version might be a considerable improvement, as with Caspary's Laura.
Just scored this and some other coolth titles at my used DVD/game store-they are now selling used books.Loaded up cheap on some Scandinavian detective books I am been tempted to dapple in. For $3 each-cannot go wrong. Went in looking for Big Bang Theory and left with 2 bags of books! :)
3.5 stars. Not a great book, but a good one--a sort of beach read from another era. Though events take place in 1913, the feel is very much 1940s noir. Love this series of forgotten gems issued by the Feminist Press.
This is a very suspenseful psychological thriller. It is comparable to "Leave Her to Heaven" by Ben Ames Williams.
Loved it! Many thanks to The Feminist Press for restoring the best of women's writing in the classic pulp genres. I can't wait to explore more works by the queens of pulp.
Not the best in this series, which for the most part I really enjoy, but not bad, either.
This is the coolest book club book ever. keep your eye out for the word "sluttishness." Just keep your eye out, people.
So. My book lover sister-in-law found this 1945 book, from the library of Mrs. Lois Ellison, at a book sale. Just read it on a flight up to Seattle. A potboiler! Circa the 40's that is. :)
