https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/631106.The_Clue_of_the_Leaning_Chimney
Most of the common words in elementary chapter books she can understand now, which impresses me, but a lot of Nancy Drew's outdated phrasing would elude even advanced readers!
Readers see a hint of true realism as Nancy yells at nearby New Yorkers to "Stop that man!" and the locals ignore her.Random observations:~During a wedding reception, Nancy purposely avoids catching the bouquet.~Was it a common practice at the time to leave babies/children outside in their carriages/strollers?
(Did the author of this book know anything about children, or is that honestly what people did back then?)~Nancy and her friends stumble upon a super-weird compound in the woods.
I don't know why George started saying "Hypers!" every third word, but I'd like it to stop. Also, I love that Nancy just jumps on a plane to New York to question someone rather than just, you know, USING A PHONE. All in all, this was a weird one.
Another great installment in this series.
One of the first Nancy Drew books that I had ever read, and therefore, one of my favorites.
The Clue of the Leaning Chimney: Nancy Drew Mystery Stories # 26, New York: Grosset & Dunlap, 1949, 88 pages.
Recommended for ages 9-12.This exciting story is the 26th adventure of the famous young detective, Nancy Drew.
Readers will enjoy the foreshadowing of danger and the author provokes, when she describes the lonely back roads Nancy and her friends drive on one rainy night, coming across mysterious strangers.
Though series fiction is often based on an exciting plot, Nancy’s character is well-rounded as many of her interests are described.
Carolyn Keene's ghost writer goes exotic in this one with Chinese porcelain, religious cults, non-English speakers and slave labor.
First, what happened to Keene's ghost writer involving a mastiff?
The damned dog breed makes another appearance to menace Nancy and her chums or cousins or whatever relationship Bess and George have to her.
Note to Carolyn, other dog breeds frighten people as well.
Second, beyond the mastiff, the book certainly shows its age and cultural white-ness" by referring individually to its Asian characters as "The Chinese".
Oddly, Nancy seems more culturally sensitive than the author somehow.
I know, these are juvenile books but I absolutely love Nancy Drew. I read them all when I was young (at least everything in my school library) and I still continue to read them again. These Nancy Drew books belong to my daughter and I decided to read them all over again. They are good, simple reads that is clean and interesting. A good book is always a good book no matter what your age happens to be!!
I really like the Nancy Drew Mystery Stories, the original books, a lot. This one was a tad different from others in that the bad guys are some of the most evil of any villains in the series. It was a fun thing to see a resourceful character stop such horrific people. Good stuff.
it was okay.
Nancy Drew helps a local shop owner with a mystery. A charming mystery.
Additionally, one of my favorite things about these books is that you always learn something new.
In this mystery we get to learn some about Chinese culture including written characters and ceramics.
Unfortunately, as this is a product of it's time, there's quite a few moments that made me cringe: a post office employee says all Chinese people look the same, for example.
In general, Nancy and her friends seemed to be as culturally sensitive as one could ask for from a book written in the 60s.
Turns out, I had forgotten a lot of this book!
A series of unrelated events keep linking together as the original owner of the vase also enlists the Drews' help to track down his missing friends.Okay, why the four stars, you ask me?1.
Some characters proved totally useless to the plot.
It was a bit too much connect the extra characters to events in the mystery.2.
I did not like the way Ms Keene (or whoever the current ghostwriter is) uses the term Chinese in sentences like, "He was a Chinese." It has the hints of racism.I did not remember these two points when I opened the book this time.
well here's the thing, it was an ok book.
I could easily tell who David Carr's brother was.
Nancy was pretty reckless and got her friends in danger.
Ned was pretty dumb too.
I also find it really hard to believe the adults just readily believe Nancy and take her advice.
fine, I get that the police in river heights would believe her because she established her credibility as a reliable detective there but what about in new York??
I can't imagine a NYPD officer or captain easily taking Nancy's word and advice on the case.
she has not established reputation in NYC.
This one was a bit better than the one I just read. Slightly darker for a ND Mystery, as people were held captive as basically slave labor for over four years, forced to create forgeries of valuable pottery. Can't decide if referring to people as "the Chinese" instead of "the Chinese man" is racist or not LOL.
Started out promisingly, but ended up dragging significantly.
This book wasn't bad, but I am becoming more aware of the utterly 2-dimensional depiction of people of color in these stories. It makes me sad.
I remember parts of this from when I was younger. This was a decent storyline, not too far fetched as far as Nancy Drew books usually go.
This book was a bit creepy ,with every one in weird costumes. But i enjoyed it anyway.
*3.5
This mystery/suspense book, written by Carolyn Keene in the middle 1900's is a typical "Nancy Drew" mystery and for young audiences who enjoy the predictable, "cookie-cutter" plots found through out the series this novel is perfect!
In an attempt to recover Mr. Milton's stolen property, Nancy is led to a house in the middle of the woods with a leaning chimney and discovers the house holds the clues to uncover the master-mind and scheme behind all the robberies.
The Clue of the Leaning Chimney  is a children's story by Carolyn Keene (pseudonym) and the 26th book in the  Nancy Drew  series. Nancy Drew and her friends attempt to discover if there is a connection between the theft of a Chinese vase and the disappearance of a pottery expert and his daughter. I’ve always been a voracious reader. So, as a child, one of my favorite things about summer was the frequent trips to our local library, which was less than a mile from our house. Like most young girls
Like most young girls of a certain age (ahem), my love for mysteries started with Nancy Drew—there simply was no mystery too baffling that she couldn’t solve.
And as I would read her most current adventure, I would imagine myself following in her footsteps … taking charge and plunging ahead, getting into mischief, chasing down culprits and solving the mystery.
Even though I haven’t re-read any of these books since I was a child, I still think that Nancy is a great character—her courage, confidence and fierce independence, makes her an iconic source of inspiration for young girls everywhere.
A must-read children's book, 
is another wonderful Nancy Drew mystery.
In connection to the stolen Chinese vases is that a man from China and his daughter have been missing for four and a half years while visiting the U.S..
The plot of the story is similar to every other Nancy Drew book.
I think if I had read this book at a younger age I would have found it very suspenseful, but reading it as an adult I find it flat.
One of my problems with the book is that all of the characters seemed flat.
For me the book just fell a little flat.
Nancy, being River Heights’ amateur sleuth, makes it her mission to track down the missing vase.
Nancy is told to find the leaning chimney.
When she does find it, it leads to more mysteries that need to be solved.Critique: I loved Nancy Drew books as a child, and hadn’t remembered whether or not I had read this one.
It’s a great book for young children who enjoy mysteries.
Who are the Chinese pottery expert and his daughter and why did they disappear?Craft elements: Create a mystery for students to solve (scavenger hunt).
The copyright date on this one is 1995, but it's really based on a 1967 revision of the original text.
The story also involves basically slave labor and, in a way, kidnapping and, of course, greed.Nancy learns a lot about pottery, her purse is stolen, she's trapped in a room, the usual types of problems she faces.
She tries to get stolen items back and tries to help Soong find some Chinsese friends of his that have apparently disappeared.It's a good story.
There's also not a lot of differences between the revised text and the original text.
One thing that bugs me after reading about 22 of these books, more or less in sequential order, is that Nancy never seems to remember anything from her past cases.
I keep picturing Mickey Rooney in Breakfast at Tiffany's or maybe Pat Morita (who isn't Chinese, but details details).A major significant character ends up being a double-crosser, which isn't a new trope but not one I recall in this series.
Also, in this book, a character uses the phrase "Federal Dicks" to refer to government agents.
I'm not sure if that's a mistranslation or if that is what actually appears in print copy.Nancy is knocked unconscious by an unknown assailant.
I read a ton of ND mysteries as a kid, but this one I loved the most, probably because I had my mom's blue cloth-bound edition in which she had penned her own name in childish, elementary school cursive, That's really why this one gets four stars. I really don't remember the other billion, except that George was a tomboy and Beth (name?) was "pleasantly plump" and there was always a line that read something like "Fortunately, Nancy was an excellent driver/linguist/cook/dancer/stenographer" and instead of being an impressed 9 year old, I gained my first shades of cynicism...
Obviously times are a changing and the authors of the Nancy Drew series are changing too. This story dealt with slavery - two Chinese nationals are kidnapped and forced for several years to create imitations of original art work. This one seemed much more realistic in comparison to previous stories. The amount of violence has increased and the danger to Nancy seems greater. With that being said - this story seemed to drag. Maybe because I've read several books in the series and need a break, but this one just wasn't a page turner for me.
I remember the first time I read Nancy Drew.
It blew my mind that there were girls presented with a brain.
Most of the stuff I'd read up to that time, was that girls were sugar and spice - fluffy.
No brains.
To also learn about George who is a tomboy was a nice validation.
Carolyn Keene wrote just for me!
That is how I felt.
When I did more research, I was shocked to find out, Ms. Keene was actually a man ...
I also loved the Hardy Boys.
No wonder I loved these series.Great for girls aged 8 and up.
I really enjoyed this one but was trying to take longer to read it as I am still waiting on the next few issues from the library. The pottery theme was intriguing although I am finding some of the language, especially concerning race slightly old-fashioned. But getting past that the book still held a great deal of mysterious Nancy Drew charm, and the pace of the plot moved quickly as I like them too given the length of these novels.
What would have been cool is if Nancy Drew would have hooked up with the mystery solving folks from Scooby Doo. Double mystery action! Did she ever hang out with the Hardy Boys? What was the connection with Nancy Drew and the Hardy Boys? It seems they the books go together, but why? Maybe it was just a matter of both books having the same cover artist.
