https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2322209.101_Dalmatians
I attended a lecture on the art of Little Golden Books, and found this delightful version of a childhood favorite available for sale. It is, of course, a highly condensed version of Dodie Smith's The Hundred and One Dalmatians, with delightful illustrations reminiscent of the beloved Disney movie.We see Pongo and Perdita, with the help of their animal friends, rescue not just their own puppies but many, many more from the clutches of Cruella deVil and her henchmen.Sweet little book.
In the story "101 Dalmatians" Cruella De Vil went to Roger and Anita's house to buy their little puppies. Roger and Anita didn't want to sell them. Cruella De Vil got very angry, and hired two men to steal the puppies. I liked this book because Pongo and Perdita didn't give up when their puppies were stolen. I would recommend this book to kids that are learning to read, because it is an easy read and a fun story.
Disney = Life!! love this
A nice little short bedtime story for my little one. I love the movie, but the condensed short story is a perfect past time childhood memory.
Excellent for kids
This book is nice because is a history very beautiful for the children i love
Cute book for young children!
Sabe tão bem recordar a infância!#SeptemberReadingClub
So much better than the Disney movie!!
Love this book! I love the illustrations and how on every page is entirely filled with pictures and words. Also, a great and classic story
It has great illustrations. It is great for children to understand the connection between animals and humans. I would use this book for second grade and up.
Genre: traditional literatureReading level: 3-4I am a big fan of the 101 Dalmatians movies so I enjoyed reading this book. I was surprised by how close it follows the movie as it is very common for books and movies to be very different. I think this would be a great book for a student who doesn't like to read but is into Disney movies. I would consider adding this to my future classroom library.
Speaking of Disney novelizations (as some of us were earlier), this is one of the novelizations I read before I saw the movie it came from.
The movie was fun, but it struck me as sort of...I search for a word.
I liked the exposition in the book version.Too many recent movies strike me as resembling thunderstorms: light flashes, clashes of thunder, sudden changes of scene, raucous music, and too many chase scenes.
Among Disney properties, I regard this as pretty much the precursor of that sort of thing.
I'm not a big fan of 101 Dalmatians in the first place. I don't even fancy the movie, though the dogs are adorably cute, but the plot is not appealing to me. So this book is not exactly my favorite. Sure it's pleasant but I don't think I'm going to reread it soon. But overall, beautiful illustrations. :)
megan summer reading 2016, children's book, picture book, disney, movie tie-in, series, little golden book, dogs, dalmatians, classic, first grade, second grade
This story is such an adorable book about dogs finding their way home. I would recommend this story to your little scholar if they have an interest in animals.
One my favourite stories growing up, which I enjoyed just as much the 2nd time round with my own loved ones. Beautifully illustrated.
This is a book version of the Disney film.
Good book for kids
JE-Dis Little Golden book -great
I kind of like books that are also movies because I like to compare them to each other.
I grew up with this book. I have always loved stories involving animals and this one was really entertaining.
I liked it. ⭐⭐⭐
A great Disney classic
<3
family favoriteThis would make a lovely addition to everyone's personal library.
retelling of the movie with movie stills, a good retelling of a Disney classic
This book is so good
The illustrations were the exact from the Walt Disney Movie. Had I not seen and loved the movie the book would be a two.
A classic story. Nice book for kids.
