https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6750.The_Broom_of_the_System
1993) Wallace six years after Broom was published:DFW: Think of The Broom of the System as the sensitive tale of a sensitive young WASP who’s just had this mid-life crisis that’s moved him from coldly cerebral analytic math to a coldly cerebral take on fiction and Austin-Wittgenstein-Derridean literary theory, which also shifted his existential dread from a fear that he was just a 98.6°F calculating machine to a fear that he was nothing but a linguistic construct.
Although it’s a work of a young man, the portrait it presents us with is an endearing one, where we become audience to the building of a road that leads to infinity.WALLACE, WITTGENSTEIN AND WORDSThis is not a bad thing when I say that I indulge some books a lot more than others and when it comes to Wallace, I go out of my way in getting myself acquitted with his aspirations, inspirations and basic motives behind his each written word.
This book is a hide n seek game and the object of desire is Gramma, Lenore Stonecipher Beadsman, a former student of Ludwig Wittgenstein.
In exercising a particularly Wittengensteinian idea—and similar ideas of other linguistic “use” theorists—of the way in which language has no meaning in of itself (has no “propositions” in philo-speak), he makes a hilarious parody of an evangelical bird.
Through these several stories within the book, we get to hear about (a) mind(s) hard at work, trying to create meaning out of their lives via story-making, a new type of therapy according to the New York Times.
The book is permeated by depression, but DFW makes it insightful and hilarious all while retaining the honesty of that sadness.
I mean, it has everything a po-mosexual could ask for: characters aware they might be characters in a novel, nested short stories read by the characters that comment on the parent text, an intentionally unresolved and fractured plot, pages and pages of ironic philosophical dialogue, and an ending that justUnfortunately, that level of post-modern detachment requires real talent, the talent of, say, David Foster Wallace.
Yet DFW famously criticized this, his debut novel, as reading like the work of a hyper-literate 14-year-old.
14-year-olds aren't generally known for their restraint and this book includes everything, whether it works or not.
A very enjoyable book, which is lighter in tone than Infinite Jest but still very complex.
As in Infinite Jest, Wallace has created a fictional landscape of considerable complexity - an Ohio governor who decides to create a desert (the Great Ohio Desert, so like O.N.A.N. a silly acronym) as a tourist attraction, a bird whose ability to talk is enhanced by an untested learning drug, and a man who wants to eat everything, literally.
The core of the story is more of a rites of passage tale, and for the most part the story avoids the narrative jumps and lengthy footnotes that made Infinite Jest so confusing.
And the tree frog can only blink sadly, and I guess wait for whatever it is she's going to do out of her very complicated feelings.
But this is a book about those things that feels like being the one to blink back sadly and so it is much, much better than knowing it.
If Lenore had learned out to make stories herself she might have felt less stuck in other people (maybe subtextual instead of just sexual).I would have loved this book forever for the toad story all by itself.
Η Σκούπα και το σύστημα του Wallace είναι ένα τέτοιο αναγνωστικό πείραμα που με το τέλος του με αφήνει με λίγο ανάμεικτα συναισθήματα.
Αδιαμφισβήτητα πρόκειται για μια ιδιοφυία που μπορεί μεν η γραφή του να φανεί παράλογη και να μην ταιριάξει σε κάποιους γιατί δε γράφει για όλους αλλά σίγουρα είναι ξεχωριστή.
Δε θα πω ψέματα ότι δεν υπήρξαν στιγμές που ένιωσα λίγο σα χαμένη στο διάστημα γιατί η εξοικείωση μου με βιβλία φανταστικού κινείται σε ρηχά επίπεδα όμως σίγουρα το βιβλίο με κέντρισε και θα ήθελα να ξαναδιαβάσω στο μέλλον κάτι ακόμα από το συγγραφέα.
Ίσως το αφήγημά του δεν μου ακούγεται πειστικό, ιδίως η απεγνωσμένη του ανάγκη να διαφοροποιηθεί από τους Προγόνους με κάθε δυνατό -και αδύνατο- τρόπο.
Το μισό εκείνο που εξαντλείται στο μεταμοντέρνο χιούμορ (ξεκάθαρη η επιρροή του Πύντσον, εν γένει) υπό τη μορφή διαλόγων, με άφησε αδιάφορο και με ένα αίσθημα αναγνωστικής κόπωσης.
Το άλλο μισό, αντιθέτως, το πιο "σοβαρό", υπό τη μορφή μονολόγων και περιγραφών, δείχνει έναν εξαιρετικό συγγραφέα, με ιδιαίτερη φωνή.
Αυτόν τον συγγραφέα θα ήθελα να γνωρίσω περισσότερο – ίσως κάποια στιγμή που το opus magnum του (Infinite Jest ) "ευτυχήσει" να μεταφερθεί στη ελληνική γλώσσα.
I could very theoretically start listing the shelves where this touches upon, but I'd rather just say that this is a first novel most cocaine heads listening to the middle days of heavy metal would want to write if they were hopelessly in love with with the craziest *roughage* post-modern deconstructionists willing to push all narratives into wonderfully feathered *roughage* prose that's more absurd mixed wth frame within frame within frame *roughage* stories that are linked so very vividly with one another while requiring such heavy *roughage* to digest simply because we're fed the literary equivalent of eight steaks.
"Lets see, I'll have my extremely boring main character's grandmother escape from a nursing home, then completely ignore that point while I have her and her boyfriend lay in bed and tell random short stories with no purpose that last for 15 PAGES EACH ( I could just publish a book of random short stories but that would be less confusing) Then I will have them go do exciting adventures like a} going to talk to a psychologist multiple times for no purpose, and b] going to visit her brother in college!
Lord Wallace of Amherst’s debut novel is—pardon the obvious—an enormo-homage to the postmodernist ladies.
His freewheeling comic imagination (which he wheeled a little too freely in the 400pp-too-long Infinite Jest) isn’t necessarily my favourite characteristic of dfwian prose, but he also lards the book with his trademark monologues (all his monologues here, and arguably in his other fictions, being put into the mouths of implausibly clever Wallace-alikes) which also serve as a conduit for the stories that account for the metafictive element of this not-very-metafictive novel.
Hey. Certainly one heck of a debut novel .
Minus all three, we have work only concerned with the truth, which is trivial without those guys that moor it to the world that is the case.DFW says: (weepily a la Renee Zellwegger) You lost me at “economical expression”.I’ve kept my own writing mostly well-hidden, never seriously pursued publication and pained about not adhering to all of these rules, but here’s someone who starts writing at the same age as me, can gleefully forget about all of them and be praised to high heaven (I will explain how to handle this kind of jealousy in due course).This is the heart of postmodernism.
Non sono sicura di ciò che ho letto e posso dire solo una cosa con certezza: non ho mai letto qualcosa di simile.
Di quei capelli io conosco il morso."Come può una descrizione del genere non affascinarti e lasciarti senza parole?La trama di questo romanzo passa in secondo piano e questo grazie all'abilità di DFW di caratterizzare i suoi personaggi in modo esagerato, grottesco, e alla sua capacità di inserire all'interno di questa crescente follia dei temi estremamente complicati e delicati, come la volontà di decidere per se stessi, la ricerca della propria identità, l'importanza delle parole che rendono vere anche cose che potrebbero non esserlo e il rapporto con l'Altro.
I sure wasted a lot of time in college is all I can say. All in all, not a bad PoMo novel from a undergraduate senior thesis. Some ideas didn't seem to be finished, or put away, but that also seems to be a familiar theme in DFW's work. Not my favorite DFW, but I'd still prefer most days to read mediocre DFW to good/great anyone else.
And this on an essay about McCain on the campaign trail!I live in a largely literary home, so I of course, told my Mom about David Foster Wallace.
Wallace proves that these things are not mutually exclusive I read this book in two sittings and was at no point, bored or distracted.
Almost disconcerting to read his work all the way through without have to go to the end of the page and back up.
I would recommend that everyone read this before Infinite Jest; it has been my experience that if you read an authors not-as-seminal work before their greatest novel, you will always get more out of it.
3.5 stars
One was connected by philosophy, one by the theme of self/other, and another by a message (the family theater scene was a bit much) for the need to build a healthy balance between ourselves and our community, instead of isolation and co-dependency.At times it was a little weird to have a twenty-four-year-old lecture me on life lessons, but overall I didn't mind it because a) it was the Truth and b) it’s DFW.---If there’s nothing about me but what can be said about me, what separates me from this lady in this story Rick got who eats junk food and gains weight and squashes her child in her sleep?
Geniale nella sua estrosità e divertentissimo nel tentativo di sorprendere, il primo romanzo di DFW (scritto a 24 anni, la butto lì) è una discesa vorticosa nel mondo di Lenore Beadsman, che pur cercando in ogni modo di essere unica viene incasellata dal suo sfondo socioeconomico ma anche ambientale, e soprattutto da una miriade di personaggi surrealmente realistici.Stupisce l'ilarità di Foster Wallace, che pur non manca - come sempre - di toccare argomenti a dir poco filosofici, con stili che si alternano tra l'intervista, il dialogo ininterrotto e racconti all'interno del racconto.
Un universo di comica tristezza. Un continuo ridere con un costante groppo in gola. Un ininterrotto incupirsi senza poter fare a meno di mostrare i denti.
Insomma, devo confessare che ero un po' preoccupato: questo signore americano qua, un mezzo genio mezzo drogato mezzo alcolizzato mezzo depresso mezzo matto, si è suicidato a quarantasei anni nella mia più totale inconsapevolezza.
Sono tornato a casa, ho letto un racconto, forse due, al limite tre, e mi sono detto che no, non ero pronto per la superba scrittura del maestro contemporaneo.
Non hai capito, dice quello, DFW scrive una storia senza senso perché il mondo è senza senso, la vita è senza senso, tutto è senza senso.
Odio-amo este libro. Un oxímoron esperable al leer una novela de David Foster Wallace. Es creo que la novela de él que más se centra en el humor.
Ma se è davvero così, allora che differenza c'è, perché vivere?""E il mio presente scrosciò e schiumò nel mio passato, e gorgogliò via."" – Lenore, il fatto è che io ti amo.
E adesso consentimi di insistere affinché tu me lo dica.""La sorella di Lenore è strepitosamente bella, per chi ami il tipo strepitosamente bella, piena com’è di morbidi capelli color miele e di occhi blu e di poppe da arrembaggio; solo che è presuntuosa e seriosa e noiosa, e il suo equilibrio e il suo senso dei valori dipendono terribilmente (e sono sgradevolmente ignari di dipendere terribilmente) dall’Ultima Moda Sociale."" - Il racconto riguarda un tale che ci viene presentato come il piú straordinario e rinomato dentista teorico del ventesimo secolo.– Dentista teorico?– Uno studioso specializzato in odontoiatria teorica e in ricerche teoriche di altissimo livello basate su casi empirici attinenti tutto ciò che abbia a che fare coi denti.– Meraviglioso.– Ti ricordi di quel dolcificante che tempo fa era praticamente onnipresente?
A place without malls." It is often crowded and the best time to get there is early in the morning before the crowds gather.
The desert is the great jest in The Broom of the System and the existence of the desert sums up Wallace's sense of humor.
If you give in though, and allow yourself to accept the desert and what it implies, reading The Broom of the System and DFW in general can actually be, if not enjoyable, humorous and something you can appreciate very much at an intellectual and philosophical level.
I decided long ago I needed to read old David Foster Wallace, and I wasn't feeling committed to the 1100 page chore of "Infinite Jest." As far as I can tell, he draws on three American literary traditions: the first is the American hysterical realist tradition that it helped to found (see DeLillo, Franzen), the second being the batshit tradition beloved by smart 18 year olds (see Vonnegut, Robbins), and the third being Thomas Pynchon, who is his own wonderful, babbling creature.
or maybe he did 15 years ago and I just didn't know it.
Se cercate un libro con una trama lineare, un inizio e una fine, esposto chiaramente, con uno stile sempre uguale, canonico e mai stravagante, senza "voli" incomprensibili e filosofici (o presunti tali)...
Propendo per un misto dei tre.4.
Si fa fatica a staccarsi dalla lettura, anche se cerchi di andare il più piano possibile per non bruciartelo così velocemente.
Mi è durato meno di tre giorni, purtroppo.(4b.
Non c'è il finale, e ne sono stato contento.
Rimane tutto felicemente incompleto dopo 600 pagine, il resto puoi inventartelo tu se hai abbastanza immaginazione.6.
Ora tocca a "Infinite Jest", quel "manuale" da 1400 e passa pagine.Fine.
Σε λίγες ημέρες κυκλοφορεί από τις εκδόσεις Κριτική το πρώτο μυθιστόρημα του David Foster Wallace [μετάφραση & επίμετρο: Γιώργος-Ίκαρος Μπαμπασάκης]Μια ιδιοφυώς στημένη κωμωδία με σκοπό να ασκήσει σκληρή αλλά και βαθύτατα ανθρώπινη κριτική στην ατμόσφαιρα και τη νοοτροπία που δέσποζαν στις Ηνωμένες Πολιτείες τη δεκαετία του 1990.
Ο David Foster Wallace, στο πρώτο του μυθιστόρημα, δείχνει το δυναμικό ταλέντο και την πολύπτυχη ευρυμάθειά του.
Ένας συναρπαστικός συνδυασμός υψηλής φιλοσοφίας και ποπ κουλτούρας, ένα ισχυρό κοκτέιλ από Βίτγκενσταϊν και Ντεριντά με δόσεις από σκουπιδοτηλεόραση, φοιτητοπαρέες και κραιπάλες.
Μια τρελή ιστορία βιομηχανικής κατασκοπείας και παθιασμένων ερωτικών σχέσεων.
Το ντεμπούτο μιας λαμπρής λογοτεχνικής σταδιοδρομίας.
Praticamente questo libro è la “parola” nella sua immensa varietà. Parola che può farsi racconto, romanzo, nonsense, parabola, metafora, suggestione, gioco, analisi, invenzione, descrizione, silenzio, menzogna, imitazione. Francamente, non ci ho capito granché e dubito che lo rileggerò mai, ma, per questa volta, non mi è spiaciuto averlo fatto. E magari non c’è proprio niente da capire, a parte il fatto che sconfiggere il caos, generato anche verbalmente, è impossibile.
DFW did for me again. I love his work. I was worried that I would not enjoy this as much as I did Infinite Jest and Pale King, but I loved it. It was laugh out loud funny. Many great characters orbiting one, Lenore Beadsman.
In fact, she feels as if she’s more or less being controlled by the people in her life — her grandmother, her father, her neurotic boyfriend and even her therapist.In typical David Foster Wallace style, The Broom of the System is eccentric and inventive in format.
Alongside the more traditional narrative, he incorporates things like therapy session transcripts and excerpts from fictional stories written by one his characters.And it’s clever.
But the brilliant thing is that it doesn’t actually feel like work.I loved this book.
Her family does it, her boyfriend does it, her freakin therapist does it (some of the most engaging and enraging sections of the book are transcripts of the therapist's "rap sessions"); she's virtually without anyone in her life who does not try to use and control and possess her in some way, and when she finally gets a taste of what it might be like to related to another person in some other way, any other way, it's actually, despite all the layers of clever prose and mixed styles, quite touching.
