https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/97753.The_Question_of_God
Throwing out facts and quotes from a person's life doesn't make for a good "debate" unless you are actually going to contrast and juxtapose the two points of view.
So often I winced at formulaic questions like "So what was Freud's views on topic A?" or "Can the answer to Freud's views on this be seen in his life and writings?" or "So is love really only about sex?" (the last one is actually on page 162).Sometimes he even throws in his own perspective with a few "I did this..." statements, and two sentences later he's quoting Freud saying "I think this..." with barely any transition.
It's main argument boiled down to: Freud had a depressing life and was an atheist, Lewis had an enjoyable life and was a believer, ergo, believing is the right way to go.
I don't see that as evidence of God's existence, but I can see and feel the atheist's anger at God and the believer's need to create God.In addition, I generally just learned a lot from the book; much of it is made up of the letters and works of the subjects and makes me want to seek out more to read from Freud and Lewis.
spiritual worldview.Saving the author’s notably biased conclusions for your own perusal, I found the work enlightening not only on topics of spirituality and psychoanalysis, but as a biography of the two men themselves.The most personal epiphany that I had while reading the book was early on when reading Lewis’ comments about love and its pusuit as a purely selfless act as the means to happiness.
Lewis seems to find most of the proof for his spiritual worldview in literary criticism of the Bible, but addresses the books as eye-witness accounts of Jesus that are in perfect agreement, instead of addressing the fact that their authorship varies by up to centuries and deeply reflects different early branches and sects of Christianity’s political biases.
Freud's the apple from the nonexistent Tree of Knowledge, and C.S. Lewis the unfortunately all-too-prevalent Christian apologist whose arguments take rocks in the head to accept.
Consider this paraphrased example, which Lewis uses to explain the beginning of his career in helping people better deceive or come out of the wisdom of doubt into into the molesting hands of faith: ~~~ I felt joy.
Therefore, a place for joy must exist.
Why not choose for Lewis' rival someone who made a career out of explaining why there is god no, or at least no reason for a god...unless one is a sadist?
But as the years went by he thought that for the class to be more effective, Freud needed a foil: someone who shared some common biography but ultimately embraced a different worldview with different empirical results.
Nicholi also describes his own clinical research on the phenomenon of conversion.The last part of the book attempts to tease out the effects of embracing one worldview or the other.
But Nicholi goes a step further and argues that as a clinical psychiatrist, he believes the worldview espoused by Lewis leads to a greater degree of mental health than the one espoused by Freud.
What contrast there is comes from quotes from the two men and frequent, repetitive attempts on the author's part to remind the reader there is a 'great difference' between the two.
With all respect to Dr. Nicholi, I didn't read this book for him and I could care less about what he thinks.
The problem, however, is that this book doesn't dialogue so much as repeat quotes and biographical facts, hype up a contrast that doesn't need to be hyped, and finally draw conclusions about the world that (while I agree with), hardly emphasize the 'lack of bias' promised in the Prologue.
An incredible read. This book compares the lives of Lewis and Freud from a fairly psychoanlytic perspective, that is how their signficant relationships and upbringing shaped their theology, philiosophy, and psychology. Its clear from reading this book why one chose to believe in God and the other saw it as a form of neurosis. This book tackles the important topics of Love, Sex, Friendship, God, Pain, & Death. I just re-listened to the unabridged audio and its a great book. The author is clearly a spiritualist as opposed to a materialist.
A real debate between these two would have been deeply fascinating, but this book is a pretty flagrant critique of Freud and endorsement of Lewis. I pretty much adore Lewis and I still found it hard to read. The biographical material makes up the most interesting parts of the book, but you could just read a biography of either man instead.
For those who are not very familiar with the biographies and the ideas of Freud or CS Lewis I think this book would be a great starting point.
Having read about Freud and Lewis beyond this book I know that these sorts of labels are not entirely accurate and they only serve to gloss over the complex humanity (and the complex message) of both of these men.Had this book been an actual debate (where perhaps the author was a little more neutral in his examination of both lives) I may have given it more stars.
This may be the historical fact of the matter, but it reveals a shift in advertising.Another fault: there is really a third “expert” in the room who is called upon to resolve many of the questions where Freud and Lewis disagree; namely, the student Christian converts whom the author previously researched.
The evidence is useful and interesting, but again feels like a bait-and-switch: a book contrasting the ideas of two great men often measures the ideas through psychological research rather than reasoned argument or other evidence.Despite these faults, this remains a delightful and edifying read for a broad range of people: those interested in Freud, in Lewis, in psychiatry, in God, in atheism, philosophy, and in the great questions of life generally.
Nicholi, who does write from a Christian perspective, offers a primer of both Freud's and Lewis' philosophy/ theology.
Most compelling for me was the writings/beliefs of Freud and how he seemingly lived by a standard that he didn't believe in.
It seems that he missed the mark of theism and actually fought his will to believe, saying in college: "I do not intend to surrender." Lewis wrote that one's interpretation of findings often "depends on the kind of philosophy we bring." These two men, with similar experiences and similar fame, came to different conclusion on a number of issues related to God, humankind, and morality, becuase of their worldviews.
A couple of years ago I went to a play called "Freud's Last Session". It was based on the possibility that these two men met one evening in Oxford and had a discussion/debate about their individual perceptions, beliefs, and philosophies. Whether or not these great thinkers actually had such an encounter is unknown, but it's an excellent play, very thought-provoking. So when I saw this book on the bookstore shelf I knew I had to have it. It's quite good. It was almost like the play in that there was give-and-take from page to page.
Fue muy entretenido y muy revelador el poder ver los mismos tópicos vistos desde puntos de vistas casi opuestos. Ver los resultados que cada perspectiva trajo a la vida de cada uno también es algo que este libro nos da para apreciar. Y también el hecho de entender lo humanos que fueron ambos personajes. Lo disfruté bastante, lo recomiendo mucho.
The details of theist should be left for later.Second: CS Lewis is of course well known for being a Christian polemical writer, but why Freud to represent atheism?
He was an atheist, that's true, but, you know, Stephen King is an American, and writes a lot about America, but why would we choose him specifically to represent America in a debate about which country is right, America or Country X?
I liked him a lot more after reading this book that I did before, he's way more, I don't know, "human" than I'd thought he was.
Freud was a noted atheist his entire life, yet the question of God continued to preoccupy him.
Lewis was an atheist for the first third of his life, and writes "I was very angry with God for not existing.
Freud finally chose to end his life by morphine injection.Lewis' conversion brought inner quietness and tranquility.
By the end of Nicholi's book, I had no idea whether to rail at God for the unfairness of life or sneer at Lewis for succumbing to a fairy tale so as to distract himself from life's suffering.One thing is clear: Lewis was happy.
As wonderful a book as I've read in some time.
As someone who has never read anything written by either Freud, OR Lewis, I found this book to be an amazing insight into their psyches as they grew and developed into adults, and grew to either embrace or grow disgusted with the world.Where Lewis sees a positivity and a goodness to await, Freud sees only the negative, and horrors or sadness to await.
Lewis, who in mid-life, rejected his former atheistic beliefs, became a man reborn.
In rejecting the idea of nothingness, and the claim that there is no God, saw his entire life changed.
Fantastic. A most interesting book. The Question of God  is a fascinating book. I heard it is an audiobook. I listen to audiobooks as an interesting diversion during my commute to work and I found this book to fit the bill perfectly. It is narrated wonderfully by Robert Whitfield. Fans of Freud have complained about the book because they think that Lewis comes out of these debates much stronger than Freud. I agree. But, I do not think Freud was disparaged or misrepresented in these "debates." La
A most interesting book.
is a fascinating book.
I listen to audiobooks as an interesting diversion during my commute to work and I found this book to fit the bill perfectly.
Fans of Freud have complained about the book because they think that Lewis comes out of these debates much stronger than Freud.
But, I do not think Freud was disparaged or misrepresented in these "debates." Large, generous quotes from both men are the main feature.
Both men speak for themselves with Nicholi adding releveant supporting information with occasional discussion of his own research.
A fantastic, if somewhat academic, look into a couple of the most influential minds of the 20th Century.
This book is essentially a post-humus debate about religion, the existence of God, and the relevance of God in our lives (with respect to morals, death, sex, etc.).
I would also recommend it to anyone who has struggled with this debate themselves (i.e. whether or not there is a God, and what it means in my life if there is or isn't).
As I said, it is a bit academic, but the significance of the subject matter should more than offset any boredom derived from the fact that it is not a gripping novel.
Well, I guess I wouldn't say to avoid it.
But it's not actually a book: it's a very clever string of quotes from the writings of Freud and Lewis.
And the prose is not very smooth prose or well organized, which is annoying.
Basically it's a substitute for thinking about the ideas of Lewis and Freud on your own; but since most of us don't have good enough memories or enough time to read all (or even most) of the works of those two thinkers and compare their works, it's very handy.
Especially as I'm writing a paper on CSL's response to Freud.
Very handy.

Wow great book. i love C.S.Lewis..and this book is a wonderful comparison of his life and beliefs and teachings etc. to that of sigmund freud. it is a very thorough deep look into the lives of these two men who have had such a huge impact on the way we see things today. very fascinating. i loved it obviously but i might be weird...
A delight conversation between two of the leading minds of the past 100 years. A debate between an atheist and atheist turned Christian thinker. Any person who has ever questioned about life, God, or love sould read this book.
Very interesting book that compares the views of C.S. Lewis and Sigmun Freud. It seems to me that Lewis thought about things on a more complex level than Freud...he dug deeper into issues and followed through more thoroughly in his thinking.
really enjoyed it. kept me interested the whole time. lots of good quotes. it wasn't supposed to be biased. but maybe i'm just biased b/c i think Lewis came across much more positive. and freud more of a weirdo than i even thought he was.
Freud and Lewis debate God, love, and sex. Do you really need more information than that?
Armand Nicholi pairs the writings of C.S. Lewis and Sigmund Freud to provide a well-rounded debate into many of philosophy's biggest questions. The result is a fascinating read.
Not bad. Pretty faithful to Lewis. And Freud i believe. The comparison was interesting. Time would be better spent just reading some of Lewis' works. Read in 2009.
Nicholi, Jr., justifies this by the fact that Lewis was influenced by Freud early in his life but eventually converted to Christianity and wrote responses to Freud’s ideas, and if these writings are examined beside each other something like a debate emerges.
Either way, Freud and Lewis are too narrow in their arguments and discipline to properly represent either proposed worldview.Nicholi states that “we will look at both views as objectively and dispassionately as possible and let the arguments speak for themselves” (6).
Dr. Nicholi Jr. taught a very popular class at Harvard over the years based on this very topic and now in this book he codifies the material for all to learn.
The "debate" is formed from their writings, lectures, and letters to friends over the years as the two likely never met.
Nicholi lays out each of their stories which helps to understands what defines them and then debates issues such as love, pain, sex, and death.
Beautifully written and unbiased as Nicholi lays out each worldview and allows the reader to download and process the knowledge alone.
What an imaginative and creative approach to an interesting proposition ...
imagine the dinner conversation between the great writer of Christian apologetics, C.S. Lewis, and the brilliant atheistic founder of psychoanalysis, Sigmund Freud.
Where would they start?
What would they talk about?
Would they agree upon anything?
A great book written in an easy to follow style.
Could not put the thing down and have read it twice since the purchase.
I have recommended this book to colleagues, students and others interested in exploring the psychological nature of humanity.
assuming his lectures are half as good as this book.
