https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12609433-the-power-of-habit
I just read Kelly McGonigal's "The Willpower Instinct", so I can't help but compare the two.Duhigg is an investigative reporter for the NY Times, while McGonigal is a research psychologist, and the differences come across in the writing.
McGonigal has a much better grasp on the research and how to apply it, while Duhigg brings in stories that are entertaining but stretch his powers of interpretation.
His most annoying stylistic problem is that he breaks his stories up, stopping one to start another and then coming back to it later.
The rest of the book is not as compelling -- anecdotes sometimes don't support particular arguments he's attempting to illustrate (the Hey-Ya examples being the most egregious), and his section on how social movements occur is weak and unconvincing, and not really about habits, per se.
I dunno, I guess I was expecting slightly more substantial psychology or social science and instead got more of a book solidly for businesses/manager types and people on the beginning of their self-help journeys.
I dunno.
The reason it’s such a good book is because it uses research to explain how habits are formed and changed.
For example, the research found that patients suffering from memory loss could not show someone where the kitchen is when asked, but once they got hungry the would get up and go to the kitchen automatically.This is made possible by the habit loop of cue, routine, and reward.
A classic example is stress and smoking, the cue is stress, the routine is smoking, the reward is the feeling the cigarette brings.I was most interested in how the book described changing a habit.
Second caveat: I'm a nerd and love journal articles, scientific writing, and technical reading, even off the job.Third caveat: I only got to chapter eight.
I realize this book isn't intended for scientific review, but when there were so many teasing moments of talking about the research going on, I guess I just expected a little more substance in laymans terms.
The biggest problem I had with the book was that I probably could have only read the first few chapters and have a total grasp of the theory.
I am upset that I kept reading hoping to get something different in the next chapter, which didn't happen.
And while this is often excellent advice – you also need to remember that people are reading your book for a reason and that reason isn’t to cry over the last moments of a drug addict’s life or to find out how the skunk lady got laid.
I think this guy should read Sam Harris’s new book.
I’m manipulated enough in life without needing to provide billionaires with better weapons to trip me up.The information in this book is very worthwhile.
What’s more, he decided to pick up one more Self-help book and this time follow up thoroughly on it.
Tom read the book with great diligence.
Tom decide that he would write to Duhigg about his success once it pays off.
But Tom had taken the trouble to document his experiences and had sent a detailed case study to the author.
He wanted a caveat, a mild statement of warning that just because a book worth of case studies of success is presented, there is no reason to expect that any approach (no matter how good) might work for everyone.
The people of the colony, even after a couple of houses are robbed, continue their morning ritual - they can't stop, even after they know that their houses may be invaded any time.Padmarajan ostensibly wrote this seemingly absurd and Kafkaesque story to make fun of the urban animal, blindly following the latest fad.
It follows the "cue-routine-reward" loop as illustrated below:(Cue = a certain time; routine = eat a cookie; reward = diversion from work)Habits are not endemic to people alone - organisations and societies also have habits, which why they are so resistant to change.The key to getting rid of a destructive habit is to replace it with a constructive one.
Despite the intriguing premise, the verbose anecdotes left me screaming, “I get the point already!” A better book (or article) would have resulted from taking the appendix (a short, practical guide to changing a habit) and adding some of the psychological research and a few brief examples.
And most often, that belief only emerges with the help of a group.”• Studies show that willpower is a finite resource; it's like a muscle that tires with use.
Increasing self-discipline in one area of life increases it in other areas.• To introduce new habits, “sandwich” them between existing ones so they feel familiar.• Habits are most susceptible to being altered when your life changes.
The book makes it sound like Warren selected Saddleback Community from a long way away by citing Warren’s seminary education in Texas and work as a volunteer missionary in Japan.
And all of these great narratives point the reader toward the most useful part of the book, learning to change behavior by identifying the routine, figuring out the cue that triggers the routine and the craving underlying that cue by experimenting with different rewards (p.
If you can figure out what you really want and substitute a better routine to satisfy that craving, you will be well on your way toward changing that habit.
Our local book club read this a few years ago.
I thought I had a review....perhaps it disappeared?
I saw a friend currently reading it.
I thought this book explained some useful information: Talked about success through good habits - organizational skills ----addictions- habits hard to break and how to create new ones --lots of repetition.
( some basic common sense - but also good tidbits and even validation in some areas) The personal stories of people's lives were interesting....
and my favorite part about reading this book was the book discussion with the people in my book club group after.
دوستانِ گرانقدر، همانطور که از عنوان کتاب پیداست، نویسنده در این کتاب به موضوع <عادت> در انسانها پرداخته است و تلاش نموده تا با بهرده بردن از آزمایشات علمی که در خصوصِ این موضوع انجام شده است و رویدادهایِ معروفی که میتوانسته به موضوعِ <عادت> کمک نموده و به نوعی با این موضوع جالب توجه ارتباط داشته باشد، کتابِ قابلِ توجهی را تهیه کنددر زیر بخش هایی از این کتاب را به انتخاب برایتان مینویسم----------------------------------------------عادتها به این دلیل به وجود می آیند که مغز مرتب به دنب
لازم نیست که شامپو کف کند ولی چون هر بار که مردم موهایشان را با آن می شویند، انتظار دارند که کف کند، تولید کنندگان این محصولات به محصول مورد نظر مواد شیمیاییِ کف کننده اضافه میکنند.
وقتی که مشتری منتظر آن کف باشد، این عادت شروع به رشد کردن میکند‎تمایلات همان چیزی هستند که باعثِ تحریکِ عادتها میشوند و وقتی بفهمیم که چگونه میشود باعث بوجود آمدن یک تمایل شد، ایجاد عادت جدید ساده تر میشود*****************************‎ما میدانیم که نمیتوان از شر عادت خلاص شد، در عوض میبایست آن را تغییر داد و میدانیم که وقتی از قانون طلاییِ عادت استفاده شود، عادتها از هر چیز دیگری قابل انعطاف تر هستند: اگر ما ‎همان سرنخ و همان پاداش را نگه داریم، یک روتین جدید میتواند جایگزین شود‎ولی این کافی نیست.
According to Duhigg, the habit loop is made up of: cue → routine → reward.
And, to take it a little further, according to the habit loop, I may just as well meet the love of my life as a result of all this success, which would in turn stop me from eating so much ice cream.
One of the integral points that will stand out for me from this book is that our actions are developed into habits when we stop thinking about them consciously.
This was an interesting collection of research about habits and routines.
The book felt Gladwellian in that it combined a variety of case studies while arguing a central theme, just as Malcolm Gladwell tends to do in his books.
The overall theme is about how habits shape our lives, and it is possible to change bad habits for positive routines.
The trick is in identifying what is cueing you to the bad habit, to experiment with positive rewards, and then make a plan for how to adjust your routine.
Recommended for those interested in human behavior and popular psychology/sociology.
راز جایگزینی عادت در حفظ سرنخ و پاداش و تلاش برای جایگزین کردن جریان عادی است.
پس از چند ماه حلقه ی عادت شگل گرفته است: بی حوصلگی(سرنخ) – تلاش برای یافتن و خوردن خوراکی (جریان عادی) – و درنهایت رهایی از بی حوصلگی با مشغول شدن به خوردن (پاداش)...
در این جا کافی ست در زمان بی حوصلگی(سرنخ) از پیش میز خود بلند شده و چرخی در محل کار خود بزند و یا در اینترنت تاب بخورد (جریان عادی جایگزین) تا دوره ی بی حوصلگی اش بگذرد(پاداش).چهارم- عادت ها پس از شکل گیری به صورت کاملا غیرارادی و ناآگانه و البته خودکار صورت می گیرند.
في المرة التانية اللي هتعمل فيها نفس التجربة لنفس الفار، هتلاحظ انه بقا اسرع وبقا بيضيع وقت اقل في التسكع في جنبات المتاهة لحد ما يوصل لحته الشوكولاته..في المرة التلاتين، هتتفاجأ!
كان ايه بقا الاختلاف داه؟في الأيام الأولى كان المخ بيفضل نشط في اعلى مستوياته طوال الفترة من أول صوت الكليك حتى الحصول على قطعة الشيكولاته ..في الأيام الأخيرة وبعد التكرار والتكرار، الوضع اختلف ، كان المخ في أعلى مستويات نشاطه عند نقطتين فقط : مع صوت الكليك ( البداية) ، وعند الحصول على الشيكولاته (النهاية)...المثال بتاع الفار داه مثال جيد جدا لتحول النشاط الواعي إلى روتين ..
I finished a non-fiction book!So, I started this climbing excursion because I have bad habits.
It’s not a bad read, I just took my time with it, it's non-fiction and of course, I read books in between.
The book addresses that one of the ways to break a bad habit is to replace it with a substitute.
It’s one of the ways to make a lasting change.Technically, this book isn’t bad.
I didn’t really need that much business data and could have used a bit more personal.We are creatures of habit and it’s really on to you and whether you can make the change or not.
To illustrate how that pattern works and what we can do to change it, Duhigg explores ideas like smoking addiction, sleepwalking, Target tracking down pregnant women, and more.
His writing shines when he compares the man who murdered his wife while asleep to the women who lost an enormous sum of money to compulsive gambling: I still find myself thinking about the neurological and moral implications of the distinction he presents.However, the writing in this book faltered at times.
I will end with a quote from The Power of Habit that stood out to me in a good way:That, in some ways, is the point of this book.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Chi Kung Ritual: The Power of Habit: Why We Do What We Do in Life and Business by Charles Duhigg(original review, 2012)I was just thinking earlier this week about the 4 dimensions of rituals that Mervin Verbit, a sociologist, wrote about: content, frequency, intensity and centrality.
And, although he was talking more about religious rituals, I think they apply to most other kinds of rituals in our lives too.
And, I think that if our everyday rituals include these 4 dimensions in the right proportions, they can allow us pay more attention to what we’re doing and give us the space to be more creative.
این کتاب یکی از چهار/پنج کتابیست که من در زمینه  موفقیت و رشد شخصی  و موضوعات مرتبط با آن در طول حدود ده سال اخیر مطالعه کردهام، آن قبلیها که هیچ کدام حتی ذرهای هم برایم آموزنده و جالب نبودند، و معمولا هم نیمهکاره رها شدند، اما این یکی کمی تا اندکی خوب بود و تا آخر خوانده شد درباره کتاب قدرت عادتنخست.
من به طور کلی با فضای کتابهای حوزه موفقیت مشکل دارم (دلیل آن را خواهم گفت) و هیچگاه هم نتوانستم با آنها به قولی حال کنم.
پس بیتردید گزارش من جهتگیری دارددوم.
گذشته از این قضاوتهای شخصی من!
این کتا
در واقع این کتاب ساختاری تقریبا علمی دارد و بیش از آنکه درباره موفقیت باشد، درباره تلاش برای بهبود رفتارها و عملکردهای شخصی هست و از این رو می‌تواند در جای خود مفید هم باشد به طور مشخص ایدۀ اصلی کتاب چنین استبسیاری از رفتارها و کنش‌های روزانه ما ناشی از عادت‌های ماست.
نکته جالب در مورد چرخۀ عادت این است که در این چرخه‌ها می‌توان یک روتین جدید را جایگزین یک روتین دیگر کرد.
هر چند که این تحلیل چندان ارتباطی با کتاب قدرت عادت ندارداساسا منطقی که در پس کتاب‌های ژانر موفقیت نهفته است از بن و بنیاد ایراد دارد!
My cues revolve around clearing my head and feeling accomplishment.
I run either in the morning (after I wake up) or after work (after a long day at school/work) to clear my head.
If I run in the morning, then I feel that I've already accomplished something that day.
When you have a series of small victories, then your days can't help but to be filled with successful habits.
For example, I feel accomplishment with a morning run.
Identifying Cues/Rewards and earning Small victories changes habits and subsequently 40% of your life.
کتاب فوق العاده ای بود. خیلی بهتر از این دست کتابهای خودیاری و موفقیت. مبتنی بر پژوهش های بسیار درباره ریشه عادات در زندگی فردی، اجتماعی و سازمان ها. هر چند اطلاعات عمومی جالبی هم کسب کردم اما اگه حداقل یکی از عادت های نامطلوبم رو با روشش بررسی نکنم؛ خیلی کم کاری کردم درباره این کتاب
معلومتان جديدتان مهمتان جدًا ستعرفهما بعد قراءة هذا الكتاب المعجزة:أولًا : الإنسان عندما يقوم بأي فعل فإنه يفكر مسبقًا فيما سيعود عليه من فائدة من فعله.ثانيًا : الإنسان عندما يقوم بفعل ما بشكل تكراري يصبح هذا الأمر عادة عنده.لحظة!من قال أنهما "جديدتان"؟أليس كل شخص يقوم بالفعل بالبحث عن الفائدة في كل ما يفعله؟ هل ننتظر مثلًا أن نجد شخصًا ما يقوم بفعل ما وهو يدرك أنه سيكون ضارًا به أو لن يعود عليه بأي فائدة أو متعة أو خير بأي شكل؟!!!
أليس هذا بتعريف "الجنون"؟؟؟ هل الكاتب يوجه الكتاب إلى المجانين؟؟وماذا عن تحول "الفعل التكراري" إلى عادة؟ أليس تعريف كلمة "عادة" أصلًا هو "فعل يقوم به الإنسان بشكل دوري"؟!
هل يريد أن يقول أن الإنسان عندما يغير عادة ما فإن هذا يؤثر على حياته؟ ياله من إكتشاف آخر!
لذلك كتب خطة للتعامل مع ذلك: يقوم بالخطوة الأولى تلقائياً على الفور حتى لا يتعرض لإغراء الجلوس مرة أخرى عند البدء بالشعور بالألم.ما يفعله هؤلاء المرضى أنهم يحددون نقطة الانعطاف أي اللحظة التي تظهر فيها عقبة ما أو ألم أو صعوبة معينة، ويخبرون أنفسهم أنهم يرغبون بالتغلب عليها ويضعون الخطة مثال ذلك أحد المرضى يسير للقاء زوجته عند الظهيرة.
Expect a video about this marvelous book soon.
I thought this would be a self-help book on tips of how to improve habits and it is much more than that.
I read this book looking for tips on improving my personal habits, mainly eat healthier & exercise more.
Mainly, I lack motivation to exercise because...As I was reading the book I was looking for a structured plan about habit modification but it was mostly about understanding habits and willpower.
However, I believe that just the fact that there is the intention of improving behavior sets the wheels in motion and makes it easier to start the process and continue it.At least I have a better idea of how to manage cravings and keep in track.
برای اینکه عاد تها به طور دائمی تغییر کنند، افراد می بایست باور کنند که تغییر امکانپذیر است  بزارین در آخر مثالی از کتاب برای جایگیزینی یک عادت ناخوشایند بزنم تا بهتر متوجه بشین مندی بیشتر عمرش، ناخنهایش را جویده بود و آنها را آنقدر گاز میگرفت تا اینکه از انگشتانش خون جاری میشد.درمانگر مندی را با یک تکلیف به خانه فرستاد: یک کارت یاداشت همراه خودت داشته باش و هر بار که فشاری در انگشتانت احساس کردی، یک علامت روی آن بگذار.
با موبایل براش یک ساعت ریویو نوشتم failed داد!الان دیگه حوصله ندارم دوباره بنویسم باشه یه وقت دیگه :|
This book claims to explain how new science can help us stop bad habits. The advice on habit change ultimately comes down to the appendix with the author's personal anecdote about trying to lose weight. The conclusion is obvious and it's not science; it's just some dude's story. People looking for books on using increased awareness of thought loops to change habits would be better served reading something about cognitive therapy or meditation.    Much of what he is talking about with automatic r
This book claims to explain how new science can help us stop bad habits.
The advice on habit change ultimately comes down to the appendix with the author's personal anecdote about trying to lose weight.
People looking for books on using increased awareness of thought loops to change habits would be better served reading something about cognitive therapy or meditation.
A real book with scientific advice on behavior change would tell us about controlled experiments of things that helped people.
According to the loop, you need an immediate reward to establish a long-term habit.
Сэтгэл судлал, хүний зан араншин сонирхдог хэдий ч нарийн мэдлэгээр маруухан надад үнэхээр таалагдлаа.
Зуршил хэрхэн үүсдэг, түүнийг яаж өөрчилж болох зэргийг шинжлэх ухааны үүднээс нь тайлбарлаад бодит амьдрал дээрх жишээнүүдийг дурьдсан байна.
Анхаарууштай:  - Аливаа үйлдлийг хангалттай олон удаа хийхэд зуршил болж хүнээс ямар ч шийдвэр гаргах шаардлагагүйгээр хийгддэг үйлдэл болж хувирч болно.
- Дээрх шинж чанарыг ашиглаж зуршил болгохыг хүсч байгаа үйлдлээ байнга давтан хийхэд өөрийн мэдэлгүй зуршил болон хувирна.
- Муу зуршлыг эртхэн засахгүй бол маш том аюулыг дагуулж мэднэ.
Өөрөөр хэлбэл хүн өөрийгөө захирах чадваргүй болж зуршилдаа захирагдана гэсэн үг юм.
Шинэ оноо ийм номоор эхлүүлсэн нь зөв болжээ.
Muito bom para entender o poder que a mudança de hábitos pode trazer. Foi o autor que descobriu a história de como a Target acompanhava os consumidores para predizer gravidez. Tem boas ideias e ótimos exemplos de como hábitos acontecem e regem a vida. Mas o livro é bem mais longo do que precisa, detalha demais os exemplos e muitas vezes dá uma boa forçada no que é explicado por hábito ou não para poder citar como exemplo ou incluir.
