https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/668830.Kindred_Spirits
I loooove this! FINALLY, A Dragonlance book that I like! I haven't liked any of them until now! (Wait, why are the ratings on this book so mixed...?)...I really thought the book was good. The characters were well written, the murder mystery plot was cool... It didn't bore me with over described details about the world or the characters, didn't drag on as long as other books, and pretty much told what it needed to. ...for the most part.It was a fun read. :)
A guilty pleasure. This is not Tolkien, but should work fine for a child
This was one of my first "Dragonlance" books, back when i was 12 or something. The descriptions on the book made me fell in love with the world of elves and that side of Krynn it showed me.That being said, a while later i re-read it and was not so impressed...Never the less this has high marks because it dorve me to keep reading. In it's time, i loved it.
But recently it's been the fantasy novel that has captured my time, and held it hostage.
Some of them are actually not terrible!So enough talk about cheap paperbacks and how they're mediocre bait for D and D nerds!
Enough talk about how they're a waste of time and a diversion from the real meat of literature and life!
It is quite well written, however, and succeeds in capturing the imagination.Well, perhaps the book is a bit boring after all, but I did look forward each time to returning to its pages, and it held my interest.
A book worth reading, if you're into the cheap paperback fantasy schtick.
It will be my own little quest.When I start reading books that I'm unsure of I give it about 12 pages to hook me.
I was hooked on page one.There are a lot of characters in this story.
I did not guess however the wallop of a surprise that comes with that.I adore Tanis, Flint, Fleetfoot, Laurana and Aliea.
Not just romantic but pure friendship.Also I admit I looked up the synopsis of the rest of the series to see if Laurana and Tanis end up together.
That really is a sign that I loved this book.
Nada que ver tienen las sagas secundarias con la historia principal.Conservan los nombres de los personajes, pero no tienen nada más en común con ellos.Se desdibujan sus perfiles y las tramas de las historias son intrascendentes, superfluas y carentes de la intensidad que les imprimen Weiss y Hickman.Lo dicho, nada que ver...
I think this would probably have been better as a Star Trek novel.
Five Stars: Dragonlance is so nostalgic
The Dragonlance Chronicles started my adventures into the world of Krynn back in high school.
I felt that returning years later to read how the companions met one another was fitting.In this first book we meet Flint Fireforge and Tanis Half Elven.
I also never tire learning about the different elven races in Krynn, so the ability to read more about Qualinost's culture and coming of age traditions interested me.
Flint's humor does break up the long stretches and his faithful donkey causing laughable mayhem.
A definite read for fans of the original trilogy that started the Dragonlance World.
Flint is invited to the elven homeland and meets Tanis for the first time.
Flint becomes a mentor to Tanis and when Tanis gets into trouble, Flint comes to his rescue.I would describe this book as a mystery book set in a fantasy setting.
The first part of the book details Tanis' life and Flint being an outsider in the elven kingdom.
The second part of the book deals with the mystery and this part lowered my rating to three stars.
This book is more of a person finding himself in the middle of a mystery novel.
Ook de avonturen met Flint Fireforge, die Tanis helpt om open te bloeien, zijn goed geschreven en geven een goed beeld weer van hoe het eraan toeging.
Eigenlijk had ik het moeten doorhebben toen Miral Laurana probeerde te overtuigen van z'n liefde.
Toen op het laatste, tijdens de Kentommen-viering van Porthios, wanneer Tanis Gilthanas verving om de moord te verhinderen, ontmaskerde Miral zichzelf en stormde Flint op het juiste moment binnen om hem volledig te ontmaskeren: Arelas, de doodgewaande broer van Solostaran (Speaker Of The Suns).Kortom, m.i.: Zeer aangenaam en spanned om lezen.
Getting to read Flint again was worth the price of admission.
The authors did a reasonable job of getting the grumpy dwarfs voice right.
There is an incestuous plot hole in the book that was never explained along with the reasoning for the killers actions, nor was how Tanis decided to go with Flint.
I would have liked to see the interactions with his family when he decided to leave.
the ending of the book in that regard seemed rushed, like something was edited out.
If you want to see more of the companions I would recommend this first book as a good place to start.
I might not read the rest of the Meetings Sextet series, since the writing bothered me enough that I didn't really enjoy this one.
It was very slow to start--despite it not being lengthy, it took me too long to read.
I had difficulties getting invested, despite the fact that I've been a fan of Tanis since I was a child.The way the mystery was solved and the conflict resolved felt like deus ex machina.
Kindred Spirits has its moments, but mostly feels like fan fiction.
This is the first book in the Meetings Sextet and occurs prior to Dragons of Autumn Twilight.
Flint Fireforge happily settled in the elven land of Qualinost - who would ever believe this?
He meets the young half-elf Tanis, and this is where their life-long friendship begins.
This is also the start of the collaborative work of the companions of the Chronicles series, and tells part of the story of Flint and Tanis' younger years.
I would recommend this book to anyone who really enjoyed the main characters in the Chronicles.
The story shares some insights into these two notorious characters.
This is a mystery novel set in a fantasy world, and it occurs before the original series of books.To me, this was no where as good as the original series, and I spent more time stumbling over the writing than I spent enjoying the book.
Many times while I was reading, I found myself stopping because the authors either did not know the characters they were writing or they could not get a grasp on the language needed for the story.
Many times, I felt like I was reading "slang English" instead of the language style needed for this book.
The first of the series of books that details how the Heroes of the Lance (in the Dragonlance Chronicles) met.
This one deals with how Tanis and Flint met and how their relationship with each other grew as they fought off an accusation of murder on Tanis.
Also, even though Laurana was present, there was little development of the romance between them as was hinted as in Chronicles.
For the most part, the plot and pacing is all right, and the story was engaging enough.
The flaw would be that ending came a bit too quickly and felt kind of rushed.
Back in the day when I was a geek (Ha!) and just loved playing D&D - all day every day - it was a blessing to discover Dragonlance.What a riveting story, full of adventure, betrayal, trails, heroes, battles, wars, champions, traitors, and pages that will leave you wailing into your pillow because "THAT PERSON SHOULDN'T HAVE DIED!! WHERE IS THE RESURRECTION SPELL DAMN IT!!!"...Yes... well.. I did say I read them when I was younger... :DA must read for fantasy buffs, so much fun!
This book was poorly written in comparison with Weis & Hickman. A good author creates a scene and lets the reader understand what's happening from the events that unfold. Most of the time you're reading more of a summarized version of what happened instead of getting to enjoy it. The story itself is okay and I enjoyed a few "Aha, so THAT'S why Tanis/Laurana/Flint/etc is that way" moments. I'm hoping the rest of the books in the Meetings sextet are a little better though.
I liked this book the best out of all three of the ones that I read in the series.My favorite character was Flint, the dwarf that's allergic to horses. The author did a good job of adding in detail. I remember there was a part in this book where I could actually feel myself actually shaking from the suspense of what happened in the ending. I'm really tempted to re-read this one because, like I said before, I liked it the best.
The characters were developed well and I got to like them, especially the dwarf. Enjoyed the perspectives given through the dwarf for what he thought about aspects of the elven culture. But as read through by two thirds, was wondering where the story was going and its purpose. Did like how it wound up, just lacked some 'punch' in its progression.
Really a fast read, very entertaining and interesting. From what I remember. This must've been the first more adult-centric fantasy I ever read, way back around 1992. I made it a goal to finish reading all six books in the Meetings Sextet, a goal I reached seventeen years after reading Kindred Spirits. See, it is possible to reach your dreams!
Favourite Character: FlintGood read if you like Dragonlance novels. I read this quite a long time ago, so I don't remember everything that happened, but remembered what it was about for the most part and enjoyed the unlikely friendship between Flint and Tanis, it was nice to get to know Flint and Tanis when they first met and got to know each other.
Hacía mucho tiempo que no leía un libro de Dragonlance, he vuelto a leer este libro principalmente para leerlo con mis hijos. Ha sido muy bonito descubrir los inicios de la amistad entre Tanis y Flint y pasear de la mano de los autores por Qualinost, un libro muy entretenido que me ha dejado con ganas de volver al mundo de Krynn.
I forgot how much I enjoy reading Dragonlance books. To make this book even better it was about the early years of my favorite character Tanis Half-Elf and how he meets Flint for the first time. I enjoyed the story and it showed just how rough Tanis had it living among the elves of Qualinost when he was a half-elf. I think I might have to revisit more Dragonlance books.
I found this one to be well-written and enjoyable, unlike some of the non-Weis/Hickman turnouts. The character-driven focus was great. My only issue was the main plot didn't really come into play until the last hundred pages or so.
I remember reading it and enjoying it a few years back, when I was in my "Dragonlance" book phase, but I deducted a star because I do not remember it too well, so the characters and story weren't exactly memorable to me.
I remember this book very fondly. Found it in a library when I was small, curled up with it, and devoured it (and the rest of the sextet, when I could find it). This book feels like a gateway drug - inviting, promising, alluring - but only a few of those that follow come anywhere near its appeal.
Tanis ile Flint'in tanışmasını konu alan kitap yer yer akıcı, yer yer ise ilginç detaylara sahip. Weis ve Hickman'ın elinden çıkmadığı için tereddütle yaklaşmıştım ama okuduktan sonra pişman da olmadım. Tanis'in geçmişindeki olayları öğrenmek için güzel bir fırsat...
Resumiendo, este es un libro que ha ido de menos a más. Empezó muy lento hasta convertirse en un libro con una trama de palacio interesante, y una investigación de crímenes aún más interesante. Y además, profundiza en la historia de dos personajes esenciales de la Dragonlance. Muy recomendado.
Oddly enough, Tanis and Flint are two of my least favorite characters of the Dragonlance Saga, so this volume of the Meetings Sextet just didn't grab me. Couple that with an author who is not Weis or Hickman and I found this just so-so and with no desire to reread it.
