https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/227571.Peace_Like_a_River
He hits the road, leaving his family with no clue where he's gone and how bad things will get if he is discovered.If you can't stomach religion then maybe put this one aside as it has a heavy focus on the faith of Jeremiah and the miracles they witness while on their travels to find Davey.
As they say the journey is the destination - so it isn't so much the search for Davey as the things the family discover, the people they meet and the difficulties they overcome.If you like stories set in the Southern states, where family is stronger than the law then this one is for you.
I remembered loving the characters (especially Reuben and Swede) and the setting (the desolation of the Dakota Badlands).
Still one of my favorites.---2011 REVIEW (audio):I read this book in the summer of 2008 and just listened to it again this month (February 2011).
I loved the themes of miracles, loyalty, accountability, faith.It's a bittersweet story, but for me, the sweet outweighs the bitter.---2008 REVIEW: This has been on my to-read book ever since seeing how highly recommended it came from Jenn.
I loved Roxanna as much as the children — and as much as Jeremiah Land, the father, the good-hearted example and anchor of the family … and the book.2.
You must want me to appear haggard and aged, by making this our upcoming November read.You must hate me.
Do you?I hope you don't hate me.
I hope things got better later for this author.
We are quick to dub a debut brilliant (as so many reviewers have with this one—you should see the back of this book).
Her fingers were the oldest part of her.”And there are lines like that in this read, and you may believe they are lyrical or mystical or whatever happy adjective you want to assign them, and sometimes they are.
Meh. I don't like old-timey Westerns, I'm not much for precocious kids telling stories, and, well, as for the faith and miracles thing, this "Doubting Thomas" subscribes more to Jon Krakauer's school of thought:: "Faith is the very antithesis of reason".(And, yet, were I to put Goodreads to use as it was intended and "shelve" my favorites, you'd find no less than three novels in my Top Ten with faith/spirituality as a centerpiece: David James Duncan's sublime The Brothers K and The River Why and John Irving's simply transcendent A Prayer for Owen Meany.
”When I was born to Helen and Jeremiah Land, in 1951, my lungs refused to kick in. “My father wasn’t in the delivery room or even in the building…Dad had gone out to pace in the damp September wind. He was praying, rounding the block for the fifth time, when the air quickened. He opened his eyes and discovered he was running—sprinting across the grass toward the door.” When his father made it to the room where Reuben lay, the doctor was holding his mother’s hand, saying that it had been unavoid
And so, his father, ignoring the doctor’s words of condolence, lifted his son up gently, baby Reuben’s body already starting to cool, and simply said: ”Breathe.”The doctor began to object, telling the father, Jeremiah, that it had been twelve minutes, those words that meant there was no chance for this infant.
As the years pass, one after another, eventually he will come to have a younger sister, making Reuben the middle child between his older brother, Davy, and his younger sister, Swede.
I'm rereading this again for a book club I'm hosting. It is one of my all-time favorite books because it has GREAT writing, a wonderful message, a twisting plot and has laugh out loud parts. When people ask me for a book to read, this is the first one I recommend.
This was such a great book! Don't miss this one!
One of my all time favorites !
Nostalgic, chock-full of miracles, poetic, a beautiful coming of age story, the love of family and friends, tragic, beautifully written, this book has it all. A classic. Loved it.
We watch the decisions of others with the same kind of apprehension and come to understand that every man and woman, boy and girl, is making decisions every minute of the day and gambling that, in the end, something beyond and above us has control and will put things right.Can’t resist a couple of passages that I truly loved:One carried by a lady you would walk on tacks for.
One day you hear it--a strange song, yet one you know by heart.I believe I have had that kind of moment of realization.
Unfortunately, it's a minor point in the general scheme of things; Enger seems far more interested in writing an episode of Seventh Heaven where the family's father is actually Jesus.
Except Seventh Heaven, for all its many many faults, has more wit, more compassion, and less preaching than does Peace Like a River.I was willing to give this mess two stars, mostly because Enger can write well when he tries, and a couple of his characters are perfectly drawn, but then I got to the ending.
All in all, I can't say I've come across another book this year that fails so miserably in all those capacities as does Peace Like a River.
This book is definitely one of my favorites! Highly recommend!I hope to catch up on my reviews next week.....sigh....
And the ending is not even the most important thing - it is walking the journey with these characters that brings joy in the reading, and though it is fiction, they seem as real as anyone we might know.One of my favorite parts of the book is near the beginning, soon after the main character, an 11 year old boy named Reuben, is born and lives though the dr.
I knew I would like the book after reading these lines:"Peeping chicks at Easter time, spring generally, a clear sunrise after an overcast week - a miracle, people say, as if they've been educated from greeting cards.
I wanted to love it, and I did love it--until about halfway through. The book's characters are drawn well; they are unique and full of individuality. The plot is well paced up through the suspense of the oldest brother's trial for double murder. From then on, the book dissolves into a strange mix of cowboy western and religious fable. The plot loses steam, and I lost interest. The ending was tragically disappointing, the characters lose their depth, and their choices seem forced.
Just as beautiful as before. I enjoyed Chad Lowe's narration this time around. Deeply moving, organically told tale with lovely character development. Highly recommended.
Among the many glowing reviews for Peace Like a River, there is this:"Peace Like a River serves as a reminder of why we read fiction to begin with: to commune with a vividly, lovingly rendered world, to lose ourselves in story and language and beauty, to savor what we don't want to end yet know must."I would add that I read to meet and know fascinating characters.
This classic tale is related by our eleven-year old narrator, Rueben Land, and assisted by his eight-year old sister Swede.
Rueben Land is convinced that miracles abound and that his father, Jeremiah Land, is touched by grace; he has seen it.
As Mother cried out, Dad turned back to me, a clay child wrapped in a canvas coat, and said in a normal voice, 'Rueben Land, in the name of the living God I am telling you to breathe.'""So the spell of the West, cast already by Mr. Grey, settled about Swede like a thrown loop.
This was a reread of a favorite.
I absolutely loved it as much this time around as I did the first.
Full of tragedy, heartbreak, healing, love, and profound faith.
It feels a little like a western, and a lot like a “great American novel” - and it’s filled with iconic lovable characters.
And if Swede isn’t reminiscent of Scout Finch...well, go reread To Kill a Mockingbird.
Between the writing and the characters and the storytelling it is by far the most beautiful book I’ve ever read.
I can’t recommend this book highly enough.
He lives with his precocious younger sister, his strong-willed older brother, Davy, and their saintly father in a small Minnesota town in the early 1960s.Their mother abandoned them years before, probably out of frustration that her husband, Jeremiah, had no worldly ambition.
"A miracle is no cute thing," he writes, "but more like the swing of a sword." So is Reuben's voice - slicing away the sweet fat that could have made this story nauseating.Trouble breaks into their lives when Jeremiah interrupts some young thugs trying to rape his son's girlfriend.
It's been weeks since I read this book, and yet I keep forgetting to write a review for it.
Well, for starters, I usually have the book around and its presence reminds me to review it.
The last third of the book meanders more than I would like, but I'm afraid the characters (oh Swede!) are just too fantastic for me to not give this four stars.
***wondering why all my reviews are five stars?
Because I'm only reviewing my favorite books -- not every book I read.
Consider a novel's presence on my Goodreads bookshelf as a hearty endorsement.
Swede, so wise beyond her eight years, loves anything pertaining to the American West and writes amazing poetry about cowboys.
Her eleven year old asthmatic brother, Reuben, the narrator of the tale, and their father head West in their Airstream to find the oldest son Davey, who has escaped from jail while on trial for murder.
Their journey appears to be mystically routed for them, as their luck along the way seems predestined.
But once they stop for an extended stay in the Dakotas with a woman that they are instantly taken with, their luck is about to change.A classic.
Absolutely perfect from first page to last. It's been ages since I've thought that about a book. I loved all the characters, as well as the story, which centers around the perspective of witnessing, loyalty, family ties, faith, character and miracles. This book spans a short time period (maybe a half- or three quarters-year) but it's so packed with story and life that it seems to span years. The writing is beautiful, with humour throughout.I highly recommend this book. Loved it.
In Leif Enger's "Peace Like A River," young Reuben Land lives in the Midwest with his father, who is touched by God to the point where he glows in the dark; his sister, Swede (read: Scout), who writes precociously nauseating epic cowboy poetry; and his hot-tempered older brother, Davy, who guns down two plot contrivances and has to go on the lam.
That's not even good pulp.
The Land family lives by a facile brand of faith based on the constant miracles God performs for them.
Enger tries to say something profound about faith in his book, but instead he trivializes it.
Sometimes I read a book that the writing is pretty shallow and I know that I am reading a book.
Other times I read a book and the writing is pretty good and I can get carried away in the story.
Then there are times when I read a book and the writing feels so real that when I stop I have to snap back into reality...
Some may argue that his writing could be long winded and I felt that once or twice at the end but mostly through the book I was completely sucked in by the writing.Now, here is where I get confused.
One of the most satisfying novels I have read.
The story was an homage to Americana, to the romance of the American west, and to the voices of children who have spoken through some of our nation's greatest writers: James Agee, Mark Twain, Harper Lee, Betty Smith, Maya Angelou, Salinger, Steinbeck.
I'm late to the party in reading Peace Like A River- it was published in 2001 - so a little late in recommending this as a book club pick.
_______________________________________Need some time to let this settle in, but without a doubt this is one of the most soul-touching books I've read in a good long while.

Whoever typeset this book should be fired, and then possibly summarily shot.
Reuben makes for a marvellous narrator, though; a narration which conveys his personality well and is convincingly child-like, uncomprehending of certain aspects of the events around him, but which still manages to illuminate, for the reader, those aspects of the story which a young Reuben simply cannot understand.I felt the ending was a little rushed, with too much action after the quiet unfolding of most of the novel, but I will forgive that, I think, for that one beautiful vision which comes at the end.
Wonderful, and a book to recommend.
In "lyrical, openhearted prose" (Michael Glitz, The New York Post), Enger tells the story of eleven-year-old Reuben Land, an asthmatic boy who has reason to believe in miracles.
Their journey is touched by serendipity and the kindness of strangers, and its remarkable conclusion shows how family, love, and faith can stand up to the most terrifying of enemies, the most tragic of fates.
Leif Enger's "miraculous" (Valerie Ryan, The Seattle Times) novel is a "perfect book for an anxious time ...
of great literary merit that nonetheless restores readers' faith in the kindness of stories" (Marta Salij, Detroit Free Press).
The characters in it are so believable I feel like they are my cousins or something--in real life!
I love to read deeply written, thoughtful books, but I want that cathartic experience of being taken away from my own troubles.
This book made me feel like I was adding to my troubles!Maybe I'm crazy, but when I finished the book last night, I was angry at the author for making me care so much about these wonderful people who did not have a happy or peaceful life.
