https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/126271.The_Charwoman_s_Shadow

Anyway, like I said, I'll not let that stand in my review of a book that I really enjoyed.The story follows the travails of a young man, Ramon Alonzo who has to learn the art of making gold from a sorcerer so he can accumulate enough dowry for his only sister, Mirandola.
The poor man soon finds out the terrible price of learning anything from this evil man, but must keep going because of his love for his sister and out of chivalry towards an old charwoman who is desperate for her shadow that was taken by the sorcerer.Lord Dunsany writes about a simpler time, when the marriage of a daughter, with a big fat dowry for her future husband was top-most priority, a scenario, that sadly still unfolds in many a place.
A classic of the fantasy genre.A lord of Spain summons his son Ramon and explains that while gold is indeed dross, it is nevertheless useful, especially since his daughter, Ramon's sister, Mirandola needs to be married and so have a dowry.
(Fortunately, Ramon's grandfather had explained to a magician some of how to hunt boars, and he was grateful for it.)There, Ramon finds the magician's charwoman casts no shadow.
Involves a neighboring lord who raises pigs, lying about coming from the forest, the dangers of giving up your shadow, the best love potion I have seen in fiction, and somewhat more.
Perhaps Lord Dunsany's most accessible work, without ever losing his inimitable style in prose. The description of the "magic" inherent in learning how to read is among the finest moments in fantasy, and never fails to instill a sense of wonder, while most other authors struggle to keep fireballs, elves and dragons from seeming mundane and boring.
Fantasy isn't done like this anymore.
This book isn't about world-building or plot so much as beautiful writing and the sense of time.
It's hard to describe - something like scuba diving, where you find yourself submerged in a completely different world, things are hushed, the sea-life accepts you as another fish, there's the feeling of weightlessness and time doesn't pass in the way you're used to...?
The feeling of ageless, golden time - William Morris has that too, only reading him is like being within a tapestry.
01/2012 Dunsany is *brilliant*. I can't believe it took me so long to learn this. Also, I'm really glad that the LA library system had the book so I could read it. Beautiful language, haunting imagery, and a wonderful story. I first fell in love with Dunsany for his constant and evocative use of the word "gloaming". 03/2014 I like this book so much. I have such a hard time describing Dunsany. I just go into raptures and splutter incoherently while making expansive hand motions.
By the time he turned from writing short stories to novels in the 1920s he had honed his musical, slightly mocking, always wondrous style to something approaching perfection.*The Charwoman's Shadow* is a novel that bears linkages to his picaresque first novel *The Chronicles of Rodrigues*, for it takes place one generation later in the same magical Spain that never really existed, the Spain of the 'Golden Age', specifically near the end of that Age. Young Ramon Alonzo is commanded by his father to make gold to pay for his sister's dowry, so he apprentices himself to a sorcerer and sells his shadow in return for the alchemical secret.
I’ve read who knows how many tales that were influenced to some degree by Dunsany… but not a lot actually by him.The Charwoman’s Shadow is a lovely, original fairy tale.
In order to gain money for his daughter’s dowry, a father sends his son to apprentice to a magician, with the goal of discovering the method of turning lead into gold.
But the magician asks high prices for his secrets.
And when the young man’s sister begs him for a love potion, instead of a dowry, he wishes only to be able to give her what she wants…
A beautiful, bittersweet (but isn't Dunsany usually) tale of magic, bargains that should not have been struck, and the passing of Spain's Golden Age. Also a very good book to read across one summer's afternoon, as the shadows lengthen, for you come to appreciate that optical phenomenon as you never did before.
I didn't like this one nearly as much as The King of Elfland's Daughter. The writing isn't nearly as beautiful and poetic and the story didn't feel as magical. Maybe because I found the characters shallow and unappealing and the ending predictable. Nonetheless it was still a nice fairytale worth reading.
'The Charwoman's Shadow' has been sitting on my shelf for an unconfortable amount of time, and as I'm currently ploughing through the Barnes and Noble Lovecraft Complete Fiction book, I've been constantly reminded of Lovecraft's "Dunsany Phase', and had very fond recollection of 'The King of Elfland's Daughter', even though most of the details have escaped me by this time.Having recently read the rather pedestrian 'Abaddon's Gate', it was a joy to dive back into lyrical prose, and 'The Charwoman's Shadow' was every bit as good as my initial impressions of Dunsany from long ago.
The setting for this story is the end of the 'Golden Age' in Spain, but it reads more like a romance/adventure than an historical novel.
One of the finest fairy tales ever written. Lord Dunsany is perhaps the greatest writer of all time. His descriptions are truly magical and poetic in their nature. The tale is both familiar and different in its portray of all things of the “fairy.” It is heartening and truly a thing of beauty. Perhaps not quite as good as The King of Elfland’s daughter but still one of the finest works of fantasy that ever has been and likely ever will be.
"There he lay down for such a night as men have who see doom close. Though the doom be only earthly they plan and plan, and mix up their plans with hopes, and then again they mix them with despairs, till all over the web of reason that makes their plans come curious patterns of the despairs and hopes; and least of all the weaver knows which is which."
Hard to start as the language is dated, but once I got my groove back with early 20th C. flowery writing, it was breezy. I wish the ending had not been so well-skeined, but the idea of what life would be like without a shadow is interesting, and Lord Sunday clearly thought it through.
A subtle critique of fantastic literature instead of the outright satire. It's a relief when happy ever after comes when magic passes out of the characters' lives.
Very nice.
Prior to this, I had only read Lord Dunsany's short stories, and this was just as enchanting. His lyrical narrative is also matter-of-fact in certain ways, a balance that I find difficult to describe. The ending wasn't surprising to me, but it didn't need to be. It's been awhile since I've read a book whose style echoed for awhile in my thoughts, and indeed, I intend to go find his other novels now.
Ramon, a Spanish youth of penniless aristocracy, cashes in an old debt to his ancestors so that a sorcerer takes him on as an apprentice and teaches him to make gold from base metal (Ramon's sister needs a big dowry and they are, as noted penniless).
Despite the warnings from the mage's charwoman (housekeeper), Ramon sacrifices his shadow for knowledge then discovers that when people see you without a shadow, they freak.
Can he recover his own shadow, let alone the charwoman's?
Rescuing a housekeeper's shadow is an unusual quest, but Dunsany makes it work — and does so in breathtakingly beautiful prose, to boot.
His sister is engaged to be married, and the family hopes that a small chest full of gold will suffice as a dowry.While studying with the wizard, Ramon meets an elderly charwoman who has no shadow.
The charwoman urges Ramon to never, ever give up his shadow.As part of his teaching fee, the wizard demands Ramon’s shadow, but replaces it with a fake shadow that looks, and acts, like the real thing.
Ramon figures that the shadow of the young woman will turn into an elderly crone.
Unfortunately for the Alchemist(Yes, there is an Alchemist/ Magician in this book.) happiness can only be found in the simple appreciation of the beauties of the natural world, the frivolity of love, in the gracious moment, with the passing of beasts and people and laughter.The knowledge the young Spanish protagonist is forced to pursue during his tutelage under the Magician gives him a type of mastery, but not happiness.
Also unlike "The Alchemist" there is a smart, sharp-eyed young lady having her bit of adventure getting love and what she wants in life.
(Side note: I bought this for $3 at a used bookstore near me, but the same store also had 70s Ballantine paperback editions of two other Lord Dunsany books that were wrapped in plastic and priced at $8...)The Charwoman's Shadow, like most of Dunsany's work, lives just at the fine border between visionary idyll and late-19th-century decadence.
As any good young man in such a tale, Ramon takes up a chivalrous quest to rescue the old woman's captive shadow, and the book goes from there.
Since the family has no riches, Ramon's father sends him to a magician, there to learn the secret of making gold so that he can provide his sister's dowry.
Can Ramon save his family's honour and the charwoman's shadow, and still escape damnation?This is a Faustian fable mingled with romance.
The impact of losing one's shadow is cleverly manifested in the hostility of superstitious villagers; and we later learn that Ramon's very soul is imperilled.
It's chilling, too, to learn what the magician does with his stolen shadows.
He knew the secret of making gold.
I picked this up because I kept hearing Lord Dunsany's name being invoked as one of the founding fathers of the fantasy genre.
I had this caricature of him in my head as a pompous gentleman-of-liesure, who, writing during a time when it was the norm to write in a style characterized by vain, wordy descriptions and endless digressions, employed these strategies to the max.
This book, however, is written very simply and elegantly, and the pacing is neither too fast nor too slow, but steady and comfortable.
I was pleasantly surprised by the humility and honesty of Dunsany's style.
He also happens to be one of the most influential pre-Tolkien fantasists.
His name has sadly faded from the popular conscious, but one look at the list of writers who cited Dunsany as a significant influence tells the tale of his far reach: Tolkien, H.P. Lovecraft, Neil Gaiman, Arthur C.
He truly is the greatest fantasist you have likely never read.The thing that struck me most was Dunsany's impressive command of the English language.
The tale told in The Charwoman's Shadow is unique and compelling; the only thing preventing me from giving a five star rating is that the central conflict is resolved in a too-easy and slightly unconvincing fashion, but that in no way ruined my sincere appreciation for the book.
By what arts those meats were kept smoking upon that table ready for any stranger that should come in from the wood, ....I tell not to this age, for it is far too well acquainted already with the preservation of meat.
The book ended just as I wished it would -- as every good fairy tale should.I found it much easier to get involved in this story than in The King of Elfland's Daughter, which is equally beautifully written, but much more static.I would recommend it to anyone who likes art fairy tales, such as those by George MacDonald, and who enjoys perfectly crafted, but weighty, and sometimes odd, prose.
Ramon Alonzo goes to the magician to learn to make gold for his family, and the magician accept him as a pupil because long ago Ramon Alonzo's father taught him the science and philosophy of boar hunting.
Ramon Alonzo tries to regain his shadow, and also to free the shadow of the old Charwomen, which was also captured by the magician.
He finds the spell to open the lock (by simple enumeration), frees the shadows.
The Charwomen, as soon as the shadow reattaches, changes back into the seventeen year old beauty whose shadow was taken.
The magician goes back to the Country Beyond the Moon's Rising,and the Lord of the Tower and his family live happily ever after.
I'm recommending this to everybody that has even a few hours to spare for this engaging story.
The wording that the author chooses is extremely well constructed and requires the reader to stretch a little in the best way, in order to see a world of characters that we don't get to visit very often.
The author's well deserved accolades from a century ago might tax the casual reader, but the construction of the stories that he creates earned him universal praise from authors around the world for his storytelling and the imagination he employed.
Dunsany can be a funny writer at times, and I enjoyed the mystery he embodied (or disembodied) within the shadow- what a good puppet show this book would make.
Dunsany's criticism of Christianity comes into play again, but now it is not so dismissive as we encounter one positive religious figure, a humble country preist; perhaps it could be said Dunsany shares a simmilar view as Bulgakov did in Master and Margarita: Christianity is certainly right, but it certaintly isn't fun either, and with it came the end of the Golden Age.
Wow!
Stylistically, this is one of the most amazing books I've ever read.
As a writer, I'm aware of the constant quest for better metaphors and less cliched descriptions, and Dunsany pretty much blows everyone else away here.
And not just for a pretty sentence or two here and there...I'm talking paragraph after paragraph of remarkable prose.
The story, too, is both deeply rooted in fairy tales and yet unconventional in execution and resolution.
Nothing is quite what it seems.Something to consider, though: the style of this novel very "high fantasy," almost mythic.
If you have trouble with The Silmarillion, this book might not be to your taste either.
Briefly: Dunsany is known as one of the fathers of modern fantasy. Alright- well enough. But what was likely fresh in the late nineteenth century now read like an exercise in style over substance. That is to say, the plot doesn't ever become terribly interesting and peaks well before the end. I read the first 200 quickly and struggled through the final 40 months later. But, on a page to page basis, Dunsany is one of the finest purveyors of metaphor I've encountered. 4 stars on the merits of his turns of phrase alone.
