https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42447.Strawberry_Girl
1946 Newbery Medal winner.These older Newbery Medal books, these children's classics, are struggling to stand the test of time.
It's about a time gone by, very different from today, a much harder time.
It's characters, it's language, it's life situations are so stark, they must seem almost foreign to today's young readers.
Can today's children still relate?
Most of them are well written, have wonderful characters, and most share positive examples, themes and ideas that were important then and are still important today.
About this book; I liked it.
She died in 1974 at age 80, and she published 98 books during that span.
Strawberry Girl was the first novel I read by children’s book author and illustrator Lois Lenski (October 14, 1893 – September 11, 1974).
The story is accompanied by the author’s stark, black-and-white illustrations that have the austere quality of folk art.I ended up reading other Lenski books that year.
Lenski was prolific, writing and illustrating many picture books, historical novels and even songbooks.
Her focus on poverty and effects on children make her a kind of children’s lit version of John Steinbeck.Much of her work is out of print.
Many Lenski works are housed in there.It’s a shame that more of her stuff isn’t in print.
Lois Lenski wrote a huge series of children's books that were set in different sections of the U.S. As a youngster, I was never able to relate to this Newbery Medal winner as much as I did to her "Cotton in My Sack," because it is set in Florida rather than Arkansas, and in my youth I spent much, much more time in cotton patches than in strawberry fields.
Here's a great way to keep history alive for middle-schoolers. Lois Lenski wrote about ordinary country children, usually in agricultural occupations. Her STRAWBERRY GIRL lives in Florida and has to contend with rival families struggling to bring in the seasonal strawberry crop. While the time (ca. 1940) has now gone by, this is such a worthwhile document of Florida history that it is still in print and widely read in the Sunshine State. Perhaps your kids will enjoy it too!
I'm basing this rating on how much I enjoyed it when I read it: almost 30 years ago in fourth grade. I remember loving Lois Lenski and the illustrations are wonderful. My friend and I were both reading this at the same time. I was flying through it and she was plodding and then overnight to my shock and horror she finished the whole thing while I was "waiting up" for her. Never forgot that.
ENGLISH: An unassuming novel, somewhat in the style of Laura Ingalls's books (Little House in the Prairie), although the plot takes place in Florida, and what it tells is not the author's life.
The way of speaking of the characters (in the style of the deep South) becomes a little tiresome over time.ESPAÑOL: Novela sencilla, al estilo de los libros de Laura Ingalls (La Casa de la Pradera), sólo que el argumento tiene lugar en Florida y la autora no lo ha vivido.
La forma de hablar de los personajes (al estilo del sur profundo) se vuelve con el tiempo un poco pesada.
I liked this book about a family who moves to a new farm in Florida, during the pioneer days, determined to make the farm a success with a beautiful orchard and strawberry grove.
Birdie is excited to become a Strawberry Girl, but is worried that the disgruntled neighbors will make trouble for her family.
Only Birdie and her forgiving mother can make peace between the warring neighbors, and make both farms a success!I loved the authentic accents and idiomatic dialogue of the characters, and the rich history presented in this story!
I really enjoyed this book. Not only are the characters well-drawn, and the illustrations quaint, but I learned a piece of Florida's history - something I knew nothing about prior to reading Strawberry Girl.
Strawberry Girl, the 1946 Newberry winner, shares a slice of reality from early 1900s Florida with main character, Birdie, that kids and adults alike will find charming.
The lives of today's youth (and even my own) are so vastly different from the times in this book.
The characters endured so much, but the conflict resolution is a happy one.
Lois Lenski's SHOO-FLY GIRL was a favorite of mine in my youth and I wasn't disappointed in this one.
The quaint pencil drawings are so cute and a little something extra to her books
This book is very much an earnest exhortation to hard work, clean living, and kindliness.
Upon this reread, at this time of my life, it was almost nauseating.I kept thinking, too, of the anthropological fallacy that Lenski succumbed to.
Kindly meant, but unwelcome and foolish.
Consider: http://www.mediaite.com/online/cracke...The map is kinda-sorta funny, too.
Here's a bit about the history of planting strawberries in Galloway: https://news.google.com/newspapers?ni....
Perhaps studying the history of cattle ranching would give more precision - when did the open range give way to the fences?
There's this: https://www.floridamemory.com/photogr...
which includes a photo of "First barbed wire fencing in Osceola County : Kissimmee, Florida (c.
Strawberry Girl, along with Lois Lenski's other books about girls from various parts of the US, is one of those I loved but could never convince my older daughter to read.
When NetGalley offered this one, I jumped at the chance to re-live part of my childhood (though I must admit that my library has a large, though old set of Lenski's books).
Strawberry Girl is set in the early 1900's in Florida when it was still a rural swamp.
The dialogue in the book shows her dialect.
It is a children's book--a quick Google search shows grade levels between 3 and 6.
This book almost rated four stars, but the highly improbably ending left a sour note in my mouth.
I did not believe for a moment that a single kindness (even a long and sustained kindness) could so totally change the character of Mr. Slater.
I could sort of see him being nice to the Boyers from now on, but his entire personality has changed.
The setting was one of the most distinguished characteristics of the book.
But there are many other books set up like that, and I think it was purposeful.
I didn't know that Lois Lenski has an "American Regional Series" set in various parts of the US, highlighting childhood in such parts.
Strawberry Girl is set in the pioneer days of Florida and seen through the eyes of young Birdie Boyer whose family settles in the backwoods.
I learned a lot about Florida that I didn't know and the fencing (or non-fencing) of cattle, too;) I think it's notable that Lenski took the time to consider the makings of childhood in more than one location.I'm going to read the Appalachian, Blue Ridge Billy next.
First sentence: 'That goes our cow, Pa!' said the little girl.Premise/plot: The Boyer family has newly moved into the community.
They can't stand each other--at all.Can the Boyer family live out the teaching LOVE YOUR NEIGHBOR AS YOURSELF?
The last chapter was giddy making.“You have heard that it was said, ‘You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy.’ But I say to you, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you, so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven; for He causes His sun to rise on the evil and the good, and sends rain on the righteous and the unrighteous.
Backwoods Florida sounds to be as rough and tumble as the wild west.
They had the same problems with ranging cattle ...
and what about those "biggety" folk who come from the North (that is, "Caroliny") with their annoying habits, such as attending school, actually feeding their livestock, planting crops, painting their houses, putting up fences to keep the friendly neighborhood livestock from destroying their crops, and going to church.
Secondly, he's a right bastard and deserves it.The pictures are charming, and the big strawberry tray on the cover reminds me of my dad's homemade toolbox.
Now I wonder if that has anything to do with his family having raised strawberries.
Boy, those bonnets sure were big!
How could a child read this book and complain about her life in 21st century America?
The two families in this book suffer from the ravages of grasshoppers, illness, hunger, and jealousy.
They argue and fight with each other, eventually going so far as to kill each other’s animals and set fire to the other’s farmhouse.
Yet there was also a beauty to this life, of neighbors helping each other, even when they have little for themselves.
Some unbelievable elements---an alcoholic dad suddenly stops drinking and a child who never seems to do anything worse than get a little mad now and then---but all in all a worthwhile read.
Vivid details and troublesome neighbors made this story about the late 1800's in Florida quite engaging. The book did seem sewn up a little too neatly at the end, but all in all a fascinating story.
When we were done reading this book me and Meredith both agreed that we the book's title should of been " How to Have a Bad Fight with your Neighbors"!
for example the main character birdie wasn't just a happy go lucky kid milking cows and picking strawberries.
she was babysitting for all her younger siblings, working the fields, and having to contend with some pretty awful neighbors who would cut down her family's fences and let their cows trample the fields and crops; leave threatening notes; allows their hogs on her family's property who would eat everything up and make a mess of things.
and shoestring slater catches all kinds of wild animals like raccoons and puts leashes on them and tries to make them his pet.
This is an Admirable Book.
The setting is admirable; the use of colloquial language is admirable; the characters are somewhat admirable.It's my least favorite of all Newbery Award winners.
The story just didn't capture me -- but I'm glad I persevered, because the "religion part" is at the end.
The story involves two families, the Boyers and the Slaters.
The Boyers move to Florida from South Carolina ("Caroliny"), and a sort of feud erupts between them.
Of course, the fault is more the Slaters', but both parties engage.In the meantime, it reminded me of Little House on the Prairie books, especially the part about squeezing sugar cane and making taffy.
Even so, I enjoyed it now.The characters, especially Birdie and Shoestring, were interesting.
Birdie was sweet, yet determined to stand up for things that were right.
Shoestring was such a mixture of bravado and toughness but now and then you caught glimpses of the hard life he had and a softer side.I haven't read many (or any) books set down in Florida in the very early 1900s, so I found it quite educational as well as entertaining.A good read even if it was a little sad for most of the book with all the trouble.
But the ending was good.
In many ways this is a remarkable book for its time. In other ways it is very much a book of its time. The characterizations were complex and not at all stereotypical. Parents were flawed and still mostly safe, except when they weren't. The setting was fleshed out and vibrant. It did almost ignore the stories of any people of color that were sure to populate rural Florida at that time. The resolution of Sam Slater was hard to believe.
My daughter did not like this book. The book started out good, however, it took a wrong turn with us. I don't think this was a good fit for my daughter's age group. We both decided to not finish it because of some of the content. Just was not impressed.
This was okay, but like many of the older Newbery winners I've read lately, it doesn't age particularly well. Mr. Slater does some pretty dark things, and I'm not sure if I'd want my middle grades child reading about his actions because he's just magically redeemed at the end without doing the work necessary to earn forgiveness. I have a problem with that.
This book started out okay, and I like the fact that the author did research on a group of people that were little known about, but I feel the stories didn't really captivate me.
Perhaps it is because I am older now in reading a children's story, but I just feel like I was not charmed or able to gain an attachment for the main characters.
I feel this book was really just a depressing story.
The end has a happier note, but it doesn't make up for the fact that this is just too sad for a children's story.
I enjoyed this story quite a bit. I had a pretty low expectation, assuming it wouldn’t stand the test of time well, but surprisingly, it was interesting and the characters showed a lot of growth. It had much more depth than I had anticipated.
Within the dramatic tension it doesn't shy away from hard things.
I felt like all of these things were believable (partly because Lenski said she got to know the region and the people and drew from their experiences) yet without being too hard on children.
Lenski imbues the book with universal themes of literature and a biblical nature; if you pause the book and ASK them, children will surprise you with their answers.
I am particularly allergic to things that wrap up dramatic tension with religion and smiles.
Luckily, this was such a short part of the book that it didn't blot out all the other life lessons being taught throughout.
This book is an example of an older Newbery that has not aged particularly well, but still offers very interesting glimpses of our American past.Lois Lenski, prolific author of children’s books, wrote one large group of books about how children typically lived in different regions in the United States in the 1930s and 1940’s.Strawberry Girl’s setting is Florida.
That fact alone adds interest to this 1946 Newbery winner.Other positives include the spunky central character of 10-year-old Birdie, strong and happy family values, and the persistency of her family to succeed in Florida.
The misdeeds of these neighbors are treated rather nonchalantly, not with the condemnation they deserve.An equally big negative is the happy ending of the book.
When I was seven, my mom bribed me to read a Lois Lenski book, a moving story about a migrant farm family.
I checked various Lenski books and it must have been "Judy's Journey." (And judging by reviews, it appears that people seem to like "Judy's Journey" better than "Strawberry Girl.")Anyway, we did "Strawberry Girl" as a read-aloud.
He is an alcoholic.) Lenski based this book on stories she gathered from people living in Floridy, ahem, Florida.
So it was neat that this book is a bit of American history.
But as part of American history, in some ways, it is a five star book.
I just love this book. Though Strawberry Girl won the Newbery Award in 1946, I remember praising it to my classmates back when I was in a children's literature class in grad school and no one in the class had heard of the book except for our professor!This is SUCH a beautiful book on so many levels. Everyone should read it :-)
This is a story set back in the time when Florida was being settled.
Birdie and her family have just moved in to an abandoned homestead and are wanting to plant strawberries.
But their neighbors, the Slaters, don't like them because Birdie's pa ends up putting u a fence around their farm, nicking the pigs' ears of the Slaters and whatever else to keep their animals off their land.
According to Birdie, her pa calls them "squatters." The Slater kids cause many problems and Birdie tries to outwit them.This was an enjoyable read and at times hilarious because of the Slaters.
Newbery Medal Winner--1946This was difficult at first because of the country dialect, but it was a pretty entertaining little read.
The Boyers have terrible neighbors--the father is a drunk who keeps allowing his cattle and pigs to trample the Boyer's crops, cutting the Boyer's fences, and eventually does even worse.
Everytime Birdie and her family do something good for themselves (buy a new stove, paint their house), their neighbors claim they must think they're better than everyone else.
Sometimes it got frustrating because I just wanted poor Birdie to fun and quit worrying about the Slaters.
The ending was a little too perfect, but at least it was a happy one.
I had no idea what to expect, I just knew I loved all of Lenski's children's books (Policeman Small, Cowboy Small, etc).
The introduction outlining the authors passion for writing the book was great as it helped lay a good foundation for what was to come.
The dialect was very difficult for me to enjoy and I was thankful we were listening to it, as I would have quit had I been reading aloud.
By the middle we were all invested (our family was listening on a road trip), and the ending was superb, albeit a bit predictable.
My rating would have been 4 stars, but my family outvoted me!
The dialect in this book drove me nuts after awhile.
We get it, they have a southern accent.
As a person who has a southern accent in real life I can tell you that "poor" and "pore" are pronounced in entirely the same way, making some of the changes she made to show the dialect totally unnecessary.
Gah.The other beef I had with this book was the ending.
It was poised to not have a happy one, and then boom it all worked out.
Give me a more realistic ending, book!
I mean I know it's intended for children, but come on.So yes.
I enjoyed Lenski's description of the setting.
In the foreward, Lenski mentions having visited Florida and spending time with the people she would write about.
It seems she wanted to write stories set in a variety of communities in the States, so that Americans could get to know one another in a way.
I kinda like that.The last couple chapters were a bit awkward and rushed as she tied up some loose ends and "redeemed" some of the characters in a way that felt contrived and clumsy, whereas the majority of the story followed as least some sort of an arc.
They immediately begin to feud with their neighbors, the Slaters, a poor, rural family with a drunken, domineering father and rowdy, disrespectful children.
The Slaters run their cattle and hogs over the Boyer property, destroying strawberry plants and the orange grove.
I liked the descriptions of rural life and farming, and understood the anger of the Boyers family towards the Slaters, who so quickly destroyed the things they worked so hard to grow.
Spoiler alert: I didn't enjoy the fact that the drunken Slater father was saved so quickly by the self-righteous, gluttonous preacher who ate all of the family's chicken, leaving none for the hungry children.
Birdie and her family have just moved to central Florida around 1900.
They free range cattle that must scrounge anything green and lush for food.Birdie's father begins to put up fences to keep the cattle and hogs out of their fields.This book is a surprise.
It is a vivid picture of the Florida Crackers (They got the name from the bullwhips they cracked driving their cattle.) in a time of change.
It is a glimpse into pioneer life in Florida as it begins to develop into an agricultural state.The book is easy reading.
Sweet but old-fashioned story of farm family in rural Florida. I don't believe today's children could relate, but I love the concept of regional American life for young people to glimpse the vast differences - and similarities - of our country. The importance of neighbors is a lost concept for many.
This could be called "Cross Creek" for kids.
Like Cross Creek, this is set in backwoods Florida complete with a range of characters and descriptions of the local flora and fauna.
Written in 1945 (but set during the early 1900s), it tackles more tough issues than is typical for books from that era: alcoholism, revenge, bullying, cruelty to animals, dysfunctional family, poverty ...
Maybe that's all right since this is a book for kids.Speaking of kids, I'd like to know what they think of the story; it's so different from the typical stories that are popular today.
I'm trying to read all of the Newbery winners, and definitely the honor books, just because I'd like to get a feel for the history of it.
When religion enters the picture later, I felt a little weirded out, but I guess that was the best case scenario of what could have happened.
It was so unpredictable that I felt true fear at what was going to happen to the characters.
I don't know what a kid would feel, picking this book up now and reading it, but would be really interested to try and foist it on one our patrons.
This one actually grew on me as I was reading--it gets 2 1/2 stars.
It's also very strange subject matter for a children's book; it's the story of an escalating feud between two families in rural Florida.
As the book got weirder ("Pa done got drunk and shot all the heads off Ma's chickens jest to see iffen he could hit um") I liked it more and by the end, I could appreciate it as a work of Realism, though the surprise ending about knocked my socks off.
Overall, strange and dated, but not a poor addition to the Newbery canon.
This is an entertaining and fast-moving book, though I definitely don't think it's Lenski's best--the resolution is particularly unsatisfying, and the character depth isn't great.
(JUDY'S JOURNEY is much better.) The main thing I note about this is that the subject matter is truly shocking--those who think the Newbery has gone too far in the last few years, rewarding books that talk about the harshness of life, should take note.
In comparison, THE HIGHER POWER OF LUCKY is tame.
(Well, it's already pretty tame, but you know what I mean.) Take out the folksy dialect and put this in modern language, and this story of violence, feuding families, and alcoholism would horrify those protective parents.
Loved learning about how the people of Florida lived in the early 1900s. Was a fun read-aloud with the dialect. Difficult issues to discuss - drunken father, fighting kids.
This was a children's Newbery winner.
I love to read Newberys in the summer to my boys.
I chose this one for myself because I was afraid it would be too girly for my boys.
This book was not too girly for boys.
It was a cute story of a family in Southern Florida trying to make a living growing strawberries.
The neighbors aren't too neighborly and try everything to get them to move back to "Caroliny".
I love the language of this book.
Very cute story.
I'd give it 3.5 stars, but since it is a Newbery winner I gave it 4 stars.
I enjoyed the story of Birdie and her family, farmers in Florida.
I knew that had happened in the west, but didn't realize it took place in Florida as well.
I thought the characters of Birdie and Shoestring were fairly well drawn.
Some of the other characters, like Shoestring's brothers and father, were rather one-dimensional.
I appreciated the dilemma that Shoestring's mother faced, trying (sort of) to keep good relationships with the neighbors while her husband and older sons were just making trouble.
The ending was wrapped up a little too neatly but otherwise, a good story for kids.
I'm only giving this a 3 because of the portrayal of the hardships Cracker families encountered on a day-to-day basis, otherwise it was just okay. The morality tale doesn't work for me... stop drinking, find God, suddenly become a great neighbor after years of abusing the family and neighbors. It just doesn't work like that in real life. The "good" kids were far too Polyanna for me; loving the hard labor. Young girls back in the day probably loved the story of the Strawberry Girl, but I don't think today's girls would.
