https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3238153-north-of-beautiful
When I finished it I actually sat for a whole 30 minutes in the same exact spot thinking about the book, and all that I took from it.
That's how great it's impact was on me.The story is like a block of wood that you see has the potential to be something beautiful.
And there is an equally great supporting cast surrounding these two people.
Before I read this book I had no idea about geocaching (way cool hobby),which plays a very big role in this story.From start to finish this story was perfect, or how the author would say perfectly and beautifully flawed.
While Terra and her mom are in Seattle for laser treatment to lighten her birthmark, they get into a minor collision and Terra meets Jacob, a handsome Chinese boy with a propensity for black clothing and a physical imperfection.
Terra and her mom and Jacob and his mom decide to travel to China.
Terra and her mom will be visiting Merc, Terra’s older brother now living and working in China.
Jacob and his mom will be visiting the orphanage he lived in.
None of the characters or details really come alive or invoke any feeling for me, and the writing furthers the awkwardness with sentences such as, "Spent, I fell into bed, closed my eyes, and dreamt of torn maps falling on me like fresh snow." The events and emotions just didn't ring emotionally true, although I seem to be in the minority in my opinion on this one!This isn't really a bad book, but it's not one I would really recommend--unless there's a reader out there that has somehow made it through life thus far without realizing that beauty is only skin-deep.
But, I think that’s just one of the things that are so remarkable about this book: on the surface and even in the beginning, it seems to be a simple, even juvenile story about a girl with a birthmark, but it ends up surprising you with so much more.Terra has developed an exhaustive protocol to detract everyone’s attention from her face.
Her father’s giant sinkhole of insecurity and her mother’s smothered quiet strength are very visible, even though Terra doesn’t recognize them.There’s a very sweet, believable romance here, but it in no way overshadows the more important themes of the story.
(hold on while I push up my nerd glasses) The people I was with were all asleep but I was watching it, flabbergasted, and wanting to wake them up--because I never knew, until that moment, that what we know as magnetic north and south have changed several times in the history of Earth.
While she does come into herself, and that is the largest focus of the book, the storyline I felt most involved in was that of the family dynamics.The way Justina Chen Headley writes family scenes is so real that I actually cried thinking about how heart-wrenching being in that situation would be.
After Terra and her mother get to know Jacob and his family, a string of events causes Terra to embark on a journey to China - where all of those in lieu learn a little bit about themselves, and where Terra might find the real meaning of true beauty.North of Beautiful was simply amazing.
Anyway, all of the characters in this book start out with problems and develop gradually, they were all three-dimensional and they were each very special.Headley's prose was magnificent; I love the way she writes so elegantly but still captures the essence of beautiful scenery.
I'm sure this must get better as it goes on but the opening was too dull for me to want to spend any more time finding out.
The first thing people notice about Terra Cooper isn’t her gorgeous blonde hair or killer body: it’s the port wine stain that spreads across her cheek, marking her face.
Through Jacob’s friendship and a life-changing trip to China with her mother, can Terra find her true path and figure out who she really wants to be?This book is gorgeous.
And watching Terra learn who she is and who she wants to be—watching her try to put the pieces of her family back together—it’s beautiful.
Her relationship with her mother is beautiful to watch, and they make you want to cheer.This is a tremendously satisfying coming-of-age story.
I guess the fact that I was unbelievably mad at Terra’s father and that I desperately wanted to see her standing up to him made me continue reading and luckily, I found myself warming up to Terra and her story more and more.
The relationship between Terra and her mother was also beautifully portrayed and it was great to see her mother coming out of her shell a little.To sum it up: A very well written, though slightly too wordy story about the meaning of true beauty and finding one’s self in which the love story plays an important but not central role.
“Terra, a sensitive, artistic high school senior born with a facial port-wine stain, struggles with issues of inner and outer beauty with the help of her Goth friend Jacob.I was initially dismayed by the first few chapters of this book because of the intense amount of references to maps and cartography, of which I was not well-versed in, making it feel like I was reading an encyclopedia and in need of constant referencing with a dictionary to find the meaning of certain words.
There’s much to learn from reading this book as it touches different topics: poor self-concept and low self-esteem, abuse from a spouse and parent, divorce, mother and daughter relationship, teenage romance, and self-discovery.
I can definitely say that I wouldn't have picked up NoB if it hadn't been for Sarah....but boy, am I glad I did.When I first started North of Beautiful, I expected it to be fairly light-hearted, with lots of self-discovery and a cute romance with some self-esteem stuff.
I understood how Terra's mom could be so weak, because the verbal abuse had happened for so long that it had just become routine to internalize the things Terra's dad said to her.
I’d read Headley’s Girl Overboard, and I wasn’t that big of a fan.
I love Headley’s writing the MC in Girl Overboard, just rubbed me the wrong way.
I just loved this book!
The writing was so perfect, I just enjoyed how the story was told, I could not stop reading this book.
I never thought that I’d be interested in going to China, until I read this book, and now I’ve already been checking out travel deals online!
Overall, just read this book.
On her way back from the umpteenth medical treatment to try to remove her stain, she literally crashes into Jacob (sliding on ice, bit of a Twilight deja vu here but that's where the similarities end) an Asian looking Goth boy who is going to turn her life pretty much upside down.Terra and Jacob, though both remarkably handsome teenagers, both have a physical problem that doesn't make them fit in.
Can't bring myself to care... Way too boring.
North of Beautiful is almost an awesome book.
The only problem is that it doesn’t know what it wants to be.
Clearly it is YA but beyond that it is a bit jumbled.
Dysfunctional family?
Coming of age?
Self discovery?
First love?
Is it defined by art, cartography, Chinese culture, a prominent facial birthmark, or small towns?
Of course, it can be all of these things, and in the hands of a more talented writer it may have worked.
I would have loved this book so much more if only it had a little bit of focus.
Actually, her d-bag father makes her worry that she isn't pretty, or smart, or worth anything as he terrorizes and controls the entire family.
He's incredibly dismissive of her artistic talents and aspirations.I felt like this book was a bait and switch, purporting to be about one thing, but actually focusing on something else entirely.
Maybe the heroine is a gifted athlete and her parents don't care.
I have no idea how the book ends, but I would guess that she: gets a gallery show, dumps her loser boyfriend for the Goth guy, stands up to her dad, and doesn't get her face fixed but realizes she's beautiful on the inside anyway.
A compelling, inspiring story about the freeing power of celebrating our flaws instead of trying to camouflage them, NORTH OF BEAUTIFUL is a cannot-put-down novel that lingers in your mind long after you finish the last page.
The hide inside herself, don't show any reaction to her verbally abusive father, the insecurity of people talking about her port-wine stain as a defect that needed to be fixed, the urge to get out of high school and yet want to stay and protect her mother.
At first he seems like a shallow jock, but he was a good guy who gave Terra a chance when nobody else did.
I know at times he was embarrassed by her, but I think that's a normal teenage reaction.
I know there were plenty of times when I embarrassed or was embarrassed by others as an insecure teenager.
I rarely find books nowadays that really make you think, and feel changed at the same time.I think this story was what I perfectly needed, being a teen that cares too much about what people think and say about me and is just not so sure about the way I look.
At the end of the book, I felt healed in a way, more confident about myself--I don't give a damn about materialistic, egoistical people that deny myself from feeling secure and doing what I really want to do.Headly's writing can't be described as extravagant and too-good-to-be-true.
Actual rating- 4.5 stars "True beauty lays within."I've never read a book before that I could relate to so much. North of Beautiful is a beautifully writtten book. It explores the meaning of true beauty and love. There are so many things in this book that touched my heart. I've never before found a character like me in any book. This book is totally re-readable. The only problem I had with this book is that it had an unnessecary love triangle (WHYYYYYY????!!!).Nevertheless, it's a great book th
Actual rating- 4.5 stars
"True beauty lays within."I've never read a book before that I could relate to so much. North of Beautiful is a beautifully writtten book. It explores the meaning of true beauty and love. There are so many things in this book that touched my heart. I've never before found a character like me in any book. This book is totally re-readable. The only problem I had with this book is that it had an unnessecary love triangle (WHYYYYYY????!!!).Nevertheless, it's a great book that every book lover should read.
From the very beginning, I could see that Terra and Jacob's relationship would develop to be those totally puppy cute relationships.
A LOT.So I guess it goes to show how well Terra and Jacob connected in terms of family and especially because it was only a single part of their family that tore it apart.
In a way, mapping was like her symbol, her connection to finding herself and a lot of people do that.
I especially liked the little geocaching trip of her and Jacob because when they were looking around for such items, you could see it was the authors way of saying find each other.
You guys, this is a story worth reading.
Justina Headley has gained herself a fan in me.Terra has a port wine stain on her face, the far-too-common "friends" that aren't really friends, a scattered and dysfunctional family and one heck of a horrible father.
I also loved the way Headley wrote Terra's mother.
He teaches us about strength of character, love, acceptance and the real meaning of beauty.Beauty is the center of the story.
Terra's growth to accept and love herself, her mom's journey to finding herself again...and just the general way that beauty should be defined by the inside, not the outside.
Now, in her senior year of high school, she dreams of going to an art school in the East and escaping her small town life, her domineering father and her passive mother.
But when her father intercepts her acceptance letter and refuses to allow her to go to the college of her dreams, Theresa feels her dreams are going up in smoke.
Then she meets Jacob by hitting his car while driving back from a doctor's appointment.
The story does hit a lot of the standard teen angst markers, including Theresa already having a doting boyfriend when she meets Jacob.
Amazing! I loved it! Brilliant story, great characters, and an inspiring message about what beauty really is. :) I highly recommend it.
Original post at One More PageI'm a big reader (obviously), but there are certain books that I can say are my absolute favorites, ones that I would willingly read over and over again and bring with me to a deserted island, if given a choice. Some of them are This Present Darkness by Frank Peretti,  The Truth About Forever  by Sarah Dessen and probably  Pride and Prejudice  by Jane Austen.I'm happy to say that North of Beautiful by Justina Chen Headley just joined their ranks. :)In this day and a
All she wanted to do was get out of the small town and make her own map at a faraway college -- far away from the people who know her, especially far away from the control of her father, a disgraced cartographer.Now if you'll think about it, the search for true beauty is not a new story line.
Of course, all her plans change when life throws her all kinds of things -- like getting into a car crash, for instance -- but that is really where her journey started.This is another book with very strong characters, all of them somehow making a mark in me as I read it.
When Terra meets Jacob, an adopted Chinese boy who surprisingly shares her self-consciousness, her eyes are opened to the brutality of her life and the true beauty that lies within her reach - if only she could bring herself to look.North of Beautiful was a wonderfully written novel that expressed its message in a deep and provocative manner.
The lens through which she forced you to view Terra's life and society's image of perfection was different and yet managed to convey multiple themes all while creating a beautiful love story.
Intent on being perfection personified, Terra attempts to obscure her birthmark with a layer of make up and body to die for.
While he may not physically lash out, his verbal attacks do far worse, they manipulate the minds, change the personalities and break the spirits of those who he should find most dear.
Terra and her mother are forever dodging his oral lashings in everyway achievable.
Then, one fateful day, Terra’s direction changes course.
With his encouragement, Terra finds the missing pieces of herself, discovers who she is, and where she wants to go.
I liked the conclusion, even though I thought it was way too much justified (I think that's my main problem, writers trying to explain everything and writers who don't explain enough; the line between these two is very thin so maybe it's just me getting lost there).
And honestly, the dialogues were not that good.I like Terra's mom a lot better.
Her character is the most realistic of all in this book and the way she progresses through the story, toward her independance, is splendid.This book is sure not one of my favorites but I'm glad I read it.
I loved the book until the end then I feel it was ruined
Terra's story was well-written, creative and vibrant, and her life in this novel is well-worth reading about though the writing was slightly choppy at times.
