https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53178.The_Push_Man_and_Other_Stories
Yes yes yes.All of that's here, and it's a hell of a lot to face, and I know it's the environment Tatsumi's characters find themselves in, but damn if there doesn't come a point beyond which I could no longer care and I had to judge them for what they (almost universally) are: pathetic/incapable losers wallowing in either casual or active misogyny.Every single protagonist is either an "I'm socially crippled and I can't talk to girls" weakling chump.
The men would be absolutely helpless and act upon fantasies of hurting the women, like hiding a scorpion in a purse or sticking the woman's arm into a tank of piranhas.
Male characters that narrow their eyes and shine a nasty grin at this voiceless sex slave who lives beneath the bed sheets, whose face we never get to see, who supposedly has been conditioned with the ideal tongue shape and vagina to satisfy these masters.My favorite story was "Make Up" for the quiet man who dresses as a woman and has what appears to an affair with a married woman who has a crush on him as a man at work but wants to love him as a woman.
Interesting from a technical point of view of layout and story structure, execution of plot in short form etc. But, yes, content bleaker than bleak. the violence, hatred and misogyny drips off the page and kinds of nullifies any benefit mentioned earlier. Wasn't prepared to recommend it to anyone I know. In the preface Tatsumi says do not judge him on these early works alone. Almost interested enough to see what else he did, but maybe not.
All of Tatsumi's characters are broken and terrible in their own ways; and while it feels natural to want to distance ourselves from them and judge them for the awful things they do, the more we consider their situations the more we come to identify with them.
OprahLit here in the U.S. usually gets away with is moving the characters along far enough on the timeline or in "golden opportunity" moments that give these broken characters one last chance for redemption; when they make the right (but usually tortured) decision to move away from the darkness, we collectively exhale grandly and believe Everything Is Gonna Be Alright.
In a society that is supposed to honor effort with respect and wealth, the accusation of Tatsumi to be cynical doesn't make sense.
The people believing in the fun society are far more cynical than any story written by Yoshihiro Tatsumi.There is a lot going on psychologically in these stories; that's why I like Tatsumi so much.
The Projectionist is a good example, a story about a man who screens porn to businessmen.
And he's comparably talkative; in most Tatsumi stories, the protagonist is completely silent, contributing to a neurotic mood, creating some kind of "dark everyman".
An awesome collection of short-stories. Drawn and Quarterly (the publisher) ought to publish more volumes. The interviews at the back of each volume of D+Q Tatsumi books indicate that Tatsumi has an enormous amount of work published over the decades in Japan. I would eagerly sit down and read every single page if only I could.I'm not sure I can say much about the actual subject matter of this book. The writing and drawing is incredible, and that should be all the prodigious comic book reader should need to know in order to rush out and grab some Tatsumi.
The art was good, but the stories were so poorly written (and ridiculously executed, but not in a good way) I wanted to cry. What a waste of art-that-doesn't-suck! And to add injury to insult, almost every story in this book of shorts was a violent misogynist fantasy (executed with the grace of a warped, hateful child), many of them not even making much sense. I want my hour of reading back!
(More pictures at parkablogs.com)Before I read the book, I had no idea who Yoshihiro Tatsumi is. He has been called "the grandfather of Japanese alternative comics" and he certainly deserves it.The Push Man and Other Stories is a collection of short stories previously published in Japanese, now translated and reformatted for the western audience by Adrain Tomine.In each story, Yoshihiro Tatsumi looks at a different facet of Japanese society. The main character is always a man filled with restra
He has been called "the grandfather of Japanese alternative comics" and he certainly deserves it.The Push Man and Other Stories is a collection of short stories previously published in Japanese, now translated and reformatted for the western audience by Adrain Tomine.In each story, Yoshihiro Tatsumi looks at a different facet of Japanese society.
Every tale is filled with some form of sexuality — sex, abortion, prostitution, etc.In the story "The Push Man", we're introduced to the pusher, whose job is to get commuters into packed trains by pushing them in.
Yoshihiro Tatsumi has a way of dissecting his characters, providing a very raw look at their hard and unforgiving life.The 16 stories are short.
Yoshihiro Tatsumi's art and storytelling style is brilliant. Every single panel is expressive and conveys a lot. The stories themselves, set in a modernising, urban Japan are bleak and miserable with dark humour. Our lead characters are all lonely, broken and confused working class men who often act in shocking and violent ways. They are frequently depicted in their daily drudgery, and walking alone through the city streets. Silent witnesses to a meaningless society.
A strongly masculinist take on the inconstancy of materialistic women, the deviancy of sexual desire, and the vulnerable violence of men claims itself as a "slice of life" vision of the working classes, but reveals little of what it claims save for its few stories that break free from the gleeful reduction of women to their apparently-always promiscuous sex organs and men to their apparently-frequent violent rages.
In these stories there are a few moments of possibility opened up by animals, who seem to be ambiguously readable because of their uncertain gender or distance from sexual availability, but these possibilities seem few and far between.
The male protagonist in each of the stories is a different person (they all have different names and jobs), but are usually drawn with the same bland, innocent, open face.
That face becomes more and more disturbing as each story reveals the violence and anger underneath.
All of the women in the stories are flippantly cruel, taunting, and promiscuous.
The protagonist is routinely mocked by other men in his life, usually co-workers.
But it is usually the women that he destroys in the end, in sensationalist ways - by mutilation, poisoning, car crashes - behind his wide-eyed, placid, wondering expression.
Disturbing.
Amazing, disturbing, revolting. Revolutionized the way I look at manga. Yoshihiro's protagonists (dare I call them "heroes?" )are mostly speechless; they're mute observers to the senselessness that surrounds them. Yoshihiro's depiction of post-war Japan is very different from the standard narrative we read in textbooks of the Japanese economic miracle coupled with orderly, conservative social norms. Rather it's one of moral confusion, sexual perversion, and soul-crushing anonymity. For those reasons alone it's worth reading his work.
3.5 stars, to be exact.
Tipos peculiares los japoneses y sus odiseas a los extremos del arte, derribando lo grotesco, lo chocante.Esto es manga americanizado.
Después detalles tan fuertes como que un trabajador de cloacas impotente se cruce con fetos descartados.
El sujeto oprimido masculino que en la mayoría de las historias ni siquiera cuentAn con una línea de diálogo pero igual resultan en justicieros de alguna manera justificados.El arte es genial.
La narración secuencial peefecta pero ese mensaje tan contradictorio me hizo mucho ruido y me alejó del disfrute para acercarme mas al espanto..
Arte no?
Super impressive technically with the structure and short story lines. The amount of Misogamy and unexplained violence. Makes me don’t want to visit japan even though I did visit before.
Although they had begun making them in the mid-50s, Sony's inexpensive transistor radios did not really become popular in the US until the 60s.With this recent history and Japanese society beginning to enjoy the benefits of high savings rates and massive investment, the artist had plenty of material to "discover" in the lives of business owners, workers, and entertainers.
The entertainers seem to be endemic to every story: they provide contrast and motive for a lot of the plots.Although it seems like almost every female is some form of entertainer (the notable exceptions being old mothers and a secretary-office girl in "Abandon The Old in Tokyo"), this is more historically accurate than not.
Esta relação é sempre disfuncional e, por vezes, a disfunção estende-se à interacção social e temos o protagonista a adoptar um papel de pária.É uma leitura desconcertante, nem mesmo o distanciamento temporal, físico e cultural permite ao leitor não se deixar afectar; a estranheza encontra-se no que é e como é contado, longe do quotidiano "normalzinho" de uma sociedade ocidental moderna.
Tatsumi ainda ressalva numa entrevista no final do livro que o leitor não deve interpretar estas histórias como representativas da personalidade do autor e que para compreender a sua obra é preciso ler mais.
The stories had a male "protagonist" but considering how in most of the stories the character did not speak at all, and we get an "insight" into his mind only through his actions (which culminated to more often than not a sudden outburst of violence or abandonment), it is equally possible to view the story from the lens of each character individually or through all the characters collectively.
Throughout his career Yoshihori Tatsumi wrote about the working class and lower-middle class, but he was as critical (and comical) of them as he was of the bourgeoisie.In the stories where the women were portrayed as either "avaricious whores or self-effacing saints", the men are also portrayed in the extremes of "unstable, aggressive brutes or wimpy pushovers", as well as adulterous or voyeuristic.
Yoshihiro Tatsumi's "The Push Man" is a collection of 8 page stories detailing the lives of young people in working class areas of a nameless city.
As usual with Tatsumi's work the stories are highly imaginative, well drawn, and utterly compelling to read.
There are a lot of 8 page stories in the 200 page book so I won't go into all of them.
The freshness of the stories reflects the high quality storyteller and artist that is Tatsumi and I loved this book like all the others the brilliant Drawn & Quarterly have been steadily putting out over the last 5 years.
If this anthology and its companion  Abandon the Old in Tokyo are any indication, here's Tatsumi's basic plot idea, repeated in endless variations.
About half the time the catharsis is a violent retaliation, the other half entails his death or other escape.I have little idea from whence this tawdry little idee fixe derives, and frankly, I don't really care.
The author is incredibly prolific and only beginning to see publication in English language-translated works (entailing painstaking re-paneling, as the originals were drafted with Manga's typical right-left orientation!), so if you have had a different experience, by all means please share.Otherwise, if new to Tatsumi, well...
these short vignettes are profiles of urban dystopia. the womyn are universally callous (except for the amazing lover in make-up). the male protagonists' actions are usually a reaction to womyn's power and sexual freedom. the stories cover several disturbing themes (not the least of which is dead babies in the sewer) and are highly engaging. the illustrations are amazingly appealing and narrate the stories well. Tatsumi was one of the first to use manga styles to tell other kinds of stories. i can't wait to read the other volumes.
This early style magna is so much grittier than the new magna. Don't get me wrong I like magna like the next person but there is something else here. Not a lot of teenage love quandaries. No subject is taboo. Just plain down in the gutter realism.
Japanse film noir in manga vorm. Helaas is er nog niet zo veel van Tatsumi vertaald want dit smaakt naar méér.
A bleak and harsh look at life from different points of view, although the majority seem to have a distrust of women. Not much in the way of happy endings here; still a worthwhile read.
You'll think that a lot when you read THE PUSH MAN AND OTHER STORIES.
You witness his work ethic and immediately, you begin to feel like shit (he's so good).
If you only read one story in this collection, make it Bedridden (like, whatthefuck)!This text is going to affect everybody differently.
Like, you can tell you are reading a Tatsumi story after you're a few stories deep.
Please do not interpret these stories as representative of the author's personality." When you have to provide a disclaimer like that during an interview, you know it's gonna be good!
It's unbelievable I could manage took this book from bookshelf and read all way through.Why unbelievable?
I read few pages of his book Drifting Life?
I know that time (when these stories wrote) was quite dark moment, let alone this lower class character.
Honestly I don't wanna know (too bitter?) :pBut I read it..
hey, it's really good compilation, I got absorbed reading it, wanna know what next until I finished it.
how strange, maybe because it's mostly in short stories so there's no empathy needed in reading.
So yeah, what Tatsumi said in interview is right, these stories aren't represented him.
Perhaps it's a cultural thing, but it's odd to read an interview with an author where he asks that people don't assume he is the man in his cartoons.
It is, however, understandable in this highly misogynistic collection of cartoons from "the father of Japanese alternative comics." The main character in most of these short comics is a laboring man with complicated (i.e. unhealthy) relationships with a woman or women.
Some of the comics border on revenge fantasies, except that they don't have any sense of triumph at the end.
The man is just as hollow, and timid, as before.
I'm torn about The Push Man and other stories.
On one hand the construction and story telling is so strong.
A lot of tough realism and complex human stories are captured in just a few pages.
On the other hand the stories are so dark and so bleak it's hard not to be repulsed.
Or maybe I am wrong and that is the strength of the stories - presenting such hard hitting realism that you can't help but react.
It's my first gekiga story - the adult manga almost invented by Tatsumi.
I plan to explore more to see if my reaction is the same.
"The Grandfather of Japanese alternative comics" makes his American debut with this book, collecting the best of his short stories from 1969. His art is easy on the eyes and well laid out. The stories deal mostly with dysfunctional relationships and sexual violence. These are well-crafted, if depressing stories, of sad, lonely or desperate men and their relations with women, work and the world. I'm looking forward to ensuing Tatsumi volumes very much.
Tatsumi surely knows how to mine the darkness of the human heart! Bleak most of the times in terms of its depiction of life's disappointments and the frequently (self)destructive actions spurred on by them, this is also an unforgiving portrayal of the failures of modern society. I will check out his other works, but after a significant break to replenish some positive energy on my part! :)
