https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/397456.Dawn
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestI missed out on V.C. Andrews as a teen, so I'm accumulating as many of them as I can now. You know, for science. So far, I've mostly been reading the ones that were originally written by V.C. herself and not her ghostwriter, Andrew Neiderman. The Dollanganger series was excellent and so was her one standalone book, MY SWEET AUDRINA. HIDDEN JEWEL was a Neiderman effort, but I thought that one was reasonably okay, even if it lacked that speci
Dawn and Jimmy Longchamp have always been on the move but now their dad is determined to bring some stability to their lives: he's taken a job as janitor at a private school, which means that both kiddos get free tuition as a bonus.Obviously the rich kiddos do not take kindly to poverty in their midst, and begin hazing like it's rush week at a d-baggy party college.
The only rich kiddo who's actually nice to her is the brother of Clara Sue, the mean Queen Bee who has a rage-boner for Dawn: Philip Cutler."Nice guys" in V.C. Andrews books can never be trusted and Philip is no exception.

Even though this was one of the books ghostwritten after Andrews' death, it follows the same basic elements of any classic Andrews novel: Innocent fair-haired protagonist, rags to riches story, incredibly talented and attractive youths, evil old woman, and a whole lotta incest.
INCEST.The story starts with the titular fair-haired innocent, Dawn, on the move with her poor family (Momma, Daddy, brother Jimmy, and new baby sister Fern) to a new apartment.
Phillip is a total douchenozzle and lies about his experience with other girls, but Dawn is smitten.So then the twist comes forth- Dawn's mother dies from sickness and her father is arrested at the hospital for kidnapping Dawn from her rightful family, the Cutlers, when she was an infant.
This whole series could be great. It has all the elements: mystery, deceit, betrayal. Unfortunately, it was written by Andrew Neiderman, the person Andrews' family chose to continue her legacy. Why they chose a man, particularly this man, is beyond me. The writing is terrible. The dialog is unbelievable and idiotic and makes all the characters (especially Dawn) appear incredibly stupid. Just very bad.
Nehodnotím. Nevím totiž jak. Kniha to byla čtivá, ale sem tam jsem se fakt smála tomu, co autorka vyplodila. :D Nejvíc výstižné pro tenhle příběh je slovo INCEST. Jako fakt. Ale jestliže se do toho pustíte, tak se nenechte ze začátku zmást. Počkejte si, ono to přijde. :D
Eventually her talent (either singing, playing an instrument, or ballet) will be her saving grace and she will find happiness, but not before inheriting the family fortune.Yup, that is a pretty good description of ALL V.C. Andrews book but I loved them!
Maybe it was my own secret wish that I was adopted and my real family was rich and famous, which caused me to basically read the same story plot over and over again.
Or maybe it was the subtle sexuality in the books which made me feel rebellious because I’m pretty sure my mother wouldn’t want me to read about “near rapes” by someone’s brother when I was 12 years old.
This was my favorite book when I was 15.
I remember a friend giving me this book, and how our parents let us read it honestly having no clue of the content.
My friend and I would sit on the phone for hours laughing at the authors use of the word "hardness"..Yes we were that mature!Recently I reread it and sadly the book didn't stand the test of time.
I can reread Flowers in The Attic over and over again, but somehow I just can't read 90% of the books done by Andrews' ghost writer.As far as Dawn I just don't remember her being so utterly stupid.
I do miss those innocent days of old when I could read this book and fall for Philip Cutler along with Dawn instead of screaming, "He's a smarmy bastard who is going to ruin you!
Run Dawn, run as fast as you can from the evil legacy that will haunt you, your daughter, your granddaughter and branches of the family tree no human could ever live long enough to see."Recently, I made the mistake of reading one of the newer books written by ghostwriter Neidermann (Midnight Flight, maybe?).
So, I decided to go back and reread Dawn, one of the older novels, to see just how far these books had denigrated.
I think I'm going to give this book 4 stars, because I can't remember much about the writing style, I do know that it entertained me.
I do remember that some of the later books weren't as good but this one was wickedly entertaining.
There is a lot of negative reviews for this series, but for me, I ate up the drama and the gossip.
I can say that I do not remember much of the style of writing and other aspects of a novel, so if you're wondering about that, I'd check out some of the other reviews.
Kaip jau šimtą kartų sakiau - tos knygos yra mano mažytė saldi nuodėmė, kurios kartas nuo karto griebiuosi pavargusi nuo detektyvų ir fantastikų.
Kaip vienas knygų apžvalgininkas rašė: "Aš puikiai suvokiu, kad Andrews knygos yra praktiškai vienodos ir, vieną perskaitęs gali manyti, jog perskaitei visas, bet...
Dėl to toks ir yra knygos pavadinimas.
Gyvena jie labai skurdžiai, vos duria galą su galu, o kaip tyčia Don mama vėl pastoja...
Tačiau Don gyvenimas vėl apsiverčia, kuomet miršta jos mama, o tėtį išsiveža palicija.
Pasirodo, tikroji šeimos galva yra senelė, kuri valdo šeimai priklausantį Katlerių viešbutį.
Tai, žinokit, taip ir yra.
Dawn is just another Flowers in the Attic, using too-close-for-comfort brother/sister relationships as perverse shock value which, after reading a number of VC Andrews' books, gets really repetitive and annoying. Her books always have a prissy rich family full of dysfunction, and some sort of weird possible incest...
After VC Andrews died, it was left to Andrew Neiderman to finish the four books she had started but did not finish.
I know that some people were unhappy with Neiderman for this book and series, but I feel that the Cutler series reflected Neiderman's best efforts.
which consist of pretty much anything he did after the Logan series especially Daughter of Darkness and the Gemini, Attic Secrets, April Shadows, Broken Flower, and Heavenstone series.This series was very decent, and I feel that VCA herself would have been pleased with this story though I am sure she would have tweaked it to add more of her personal, inimitable style.
I usually enjoy Andrew Neiderman VC Andrews, and this was no different: I flipped through this in a day and it was fun.
There wasn't enough fucked-up-shit for it to be amusing, and it was so cliched and juvenile that it felt like Sweet Valley High without all the craziness that makes VC Andrews interesting.
He's no literary genius, but I can usually flit through one of his books without rolling my eyes and cackling at every other page.I guffawed my way through this whole book.
And I felt the shame of knowing that the next book I picked up would't be anything intelligent.
It's like watching an episode of Maury Povich or Jerry Springer, only better because you're reading it and improving your mind at the same time!Dawn is exactly like Heaven (from V.C. Andrews' Casteel series) except she's blonde instead of brunette and lives in Richmond, Virginia instead of the West Virginia mountains.
On the very first page, we learn that the 14-year-old Dawn and her 16-year-old brother Jimmy, share a bed.
But, like all V.C. Andrews books, nothing is quite what it first appears to be...I don't care if this series is the trashiest series on earth, it's still pretty dang entertaining to read!
My sister had a box of books in her closet and the only reason I picked this up is because my name was the title! Little did I know what I was about to get myself into! All of V.C. Andrews' books (be it the ones she wrote or the ghost writers after her) are quite interesting. As soon as I finished this book, I was hooked on all her others. I've fallen off the wagon the past year or two, but I hope to catch up to them all.
I think in my pre-teen years I read all the VC Andrews books with my best-friend Trish at my side. love you trish!
It's the story of an impoverished vagabond who lives in Virginia with her parents and brother and sister.
Her father gets a job as a janitor at a fancy private school, and Dawn and her brother Jimmy can go for free.
Surprise, surprise, it's full of snobs and they hate Dawn and her brother.
Her mom is crazy, her dad is crazy, her sister hates her, and Philip can't deal with their new relationship and totally rapes her.
The story ends with her finding out her kidnapping was a setup because her mother had an affair with a travelling musician and the grandmother finds out.
Another book I found in an old pile from high school. Ugh, I can't believe adults let me read these. While I don't remember VC Andrews books as graphic, they were full of incestuous brother-sister relationships. Why did anyone read these? And there are about a million different VC Andrews series. Sadly, I owned several. In hardback. They might have been gifts! I packed them off to Goodwill, as I can't toss (or burn, ha) even bad, bad books.
Basically my eldest sister owned a copy of this book and I managed to sneak it out of her possession and read it when I was around 14-15 years. I am not sure how I will like this book now but back then I quite enjoyed it. The plot had everything to get me interested at that point of time but never did get around to reading the entire series though...
I love this book!Dawn was an amazing book. The characters were either likeable and unlikeable. This book was something that V.C. Andrews would write. I loved this book and I can't wait to read the rest of the Cutler series.
Dawn was an excellent book when I was younger - now not so much. I will always remember that I kept reading the beginning of the book, enchanted by how Andrews wrote. She was a likeable character pushed into some strange situations, classic Andrews.
http://incompletetales.tumblr.com/pos...I do not recommend this series unless you enjoy soap operas and you’re most recent favourite show just got cancelled, and maybe then you will find this to your liking.
This was a reread for me and even though I enjoyed it , it was nothing like the first time I picked this book up with all the twists and turns.
Stars: 2.5
reading this book made me feel mature and i tried imagining myself into the situations...that was a great deal...hats off to V.C.Andrews...and especially to Dawn..!!
Great series
V.C Andrews never disappoints.
All I could think throughout the whole story was..
could Dawn possibly endure anymore..
literally every tragedy imaginable happens to her..
and then her situation does a 360..
what a twist and not a good one either I was like NOOOOO how could you do that to her how unfair!
needed a break after all that drama, suspense and just awful sh*t Dawn goes through.
(view spoiler)[But if you can make it to the second book..
maybe there is a silver lining..(not sure though haven’t finished and now cringing waiting for the shoe to drop..) (hide spoiler)]
Et Philippe a vraiment du mal à la voir comme une soeur (mais que serait un VC Andrews sans un bon gros inceste ?).
Bien entendu, on apprend peu à peu le secret de la naissance d'Aurore et la jeune fille finit par être éloignée de l'hôtel familial (ce qui n'est pas plus mal !)Ce que j'aime : la relation entre Philippe et Aurore (oui, c'est dommage qu'ils soient de la même famille), la grand mère CutlerCe que j'aime moins : la relation entre Jimmy et Aurore (pour le coup, je trouve ça too much, même si je reconnais que le fait de les faire sans cesse dormir l'un sur l'autre n'aide pas)En bref : Le début d'une nouvelle saga prometteuse avec une héroïne plutôt futéeMa note 8/10
I didn't like how it was a repeat of many things from other V. C. Andrews books but it kept me interested and hard to stop reading.
