https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/49245.His_Needs_Her_Needs
Similarly, he appears to place blame which should be for the guilty spouse on the shoulders of the innocent party.Regarding my observation of the shallow view held by the author, he condones men being demanding on their wives regarding their physical appearances.
Similarly, he condones women demanding their husbands be astute providers of wealth.Harley seems to lack a basic Biblical understanding of marriage as a covenant between the spouses and God. I did give this book a fair shake, initially giving the author the benefit of the doubt, however, my suspicions were confirmed when I viewed one of his websites, wherein he unjustly chastened a person who was the innocent party in a divorce due to adultery.
مرد نیاز دارد همسرش درخواست های زناشویی او را برطرف کند.۲.
مرد نیاز دارد همسرش او را در تفریحات همراهی کند.
٣. مرد نیاز دارد همسرش آرامش و آسایش او را در خانه فراهم کند.
مرد نیاز دارد همسرش آراسته و جذاب باشد و به سلامت و ظاهر خود اهمیت دهد.
۵. مرد نیاز دارد همسرش به او افتخار کند.نیازهای اساسی زنان ١.
٣. زن نیاز دارد همسرش او را از نظر اقتصادی حمایت کند و برای برطرف کردن نیازهای اولیه زندگی به درآمد زن وابسته نباشد.
۴. زن نیاز دارد همسرش با او گفتگو و به او توجه کند.
I thought people might have been exaggerating when they claimed this was the best marriage book they'd ever read, but this book was really something.
If you plan on reading this book, start now!
You can definitely start implementing the books suggestions/activities immediately.And concerning all the negative reviews on the book, here is my opinion: Adultery is a very inflammatory subject and most (if not all) people cannot talk about it without becoming emotional (and sometimes, irrational).
The book neither "condones" adultery, nor "blames innocent parties" - it merely explains what each person in a relationship can PROACTIVELY do to have the best chance at keeping a marriage that is fulfilling to both parties.
Everyone has emotional needs, and we should try to meet the needs of our spouse.The problem I have with this book is that I felt the author justifies (especially men) going and having an affair because their needs were not being met.
He makes no exceptions for sicknesses, going back to school, or just hard times.
I felt he was especially hard on women saying they need to look just like their husbands want (hair style, perfect makeup, ideal weight, clothing styles) and that they need to be available WHENEVER their husband is feeling intimate.
My understanding is much of the material of the book comes from the 1970s, even though the first printing was 1995 and this was an updated 2001 version.Over this book I would recommend Arterburn's Seven Minute Marriage Solution, Emerson Eggerichs' Love and Respect, and many more.Harley breaks down the basic needs of husbands and wives into five each, focusing more on the male aspects.
Most books on marriage deal with the importance of the man fulfilling his wife's needs during daylight hours ("women are ovens, men are microwaves") by being a supportive husband, this did not put as much impetus on the man.
It really does deliver on this...My step-dad, who is a pastor, uses this book for counseling couples on the verge of divorce or trying to get through/avoid adultery and uses it to help guide them back to a place where they can make each other happy again.
It does have some Christian references and the author is a Christian himself, but the book is not a "Christian book", so Christians and non-Christians alike will find this book useful.
It's principals have guided my marriage and helped my husband and I make it to our 8th year and beyond more in love with each other than ever!

Third, the author uses modern ideas of beauty in his chapter on physical appearance.
A woman shouldn't have to put chemicals on her face, on her skin, or in her hair to keep her husband from cheating on her.
It wasn't so long ago that makeup, hair dyes, and trendy hair and clothes were not beautiful to American men and women.
Now the typical American's idea of a beautiful woman is very thin, tan, wearing makeup, and highlighted hair.
This book is terrible.
This is NOT a Christian book, it is purely secular with no Biblical basis.
If you focus on your unmet marriage needs, trust me your marriage is not going to get better.In full disclosure, I read this book 5 years ago and thought it correct at the time.
It nearly ended my marriage as I basically came to the place that my marriage could not meet my needs.
I gave this book to a friend, it did end his marriage.
I feel so badly about giving this book to him.
وهذا ما لا تذهب له النظرية الإسلامية هناك إفتراض آخر مهم يطرحه الكاتب في كتابه، وبحاجة لبحث أكثر، الكتاب يتحدث عن (عودة الحب) بعد إشباع الحاجات، وهنا إفتراض مهم بأن هذا الزواج كان أساسه الحب، أما عن الزيجات التقليدية والتي لا من المفترض أن يأتي الحب فيها بعد الزواج فالكتأب يفترض نوعاً ما بأن إشباع الحاجات العاطفية من شأنه أن يخلق الحب أيضاً كالوضع في حال الزيجات التقليدية ..
كتاب بسيط و أساسي في كيفية الوصول إلى زواج سعيدالفكرة هي ببساطة ان لكل زوج و زوجة له/لها حاجات وجدان
Bunch of bunk. Don't waste your time. If a spouse is a cheater, they are a cheater. If they are not a cheater, it doesn't matter what the other spouse does or does not do, they won't cheat. This books tries to make people feel guilty if they have a cheating spouse, like they could have done something better/different to prevent it. Take a page from the newspaper...Arnold, Tiger, Brad Pitt, Weiner...all cheated on beautiful, talented, intelligent wives.
brilliant book. Will be buying this one to read every christmas break. It's a great way to start a fresh year and I would do well to be reminded of the concepts in here frequently.
My husband and I read this before we married and at each anniversary we go back over how we are each doing with the needs. At least for us, this book has been a God-send.
Now, on to the basics of the book:"The Man's five most basic needs in marriage tend to be:1.
To determine your preferences and those of your spouse, there is a questionnaire at the back, and if that isn't enough, more are available at his web site."The woman's five most basic needs in marriage tend to be:1.
This book addresses the failure to care - the failure to meet each other's most important emotional needs.
In sum, the advice centers on gender stereotyping (a whole chapter on all the things women should do to be physically attractive, including tips on getting professional help with makeup and buying sexy nighties) and overly simplistic cause-and-effect examples that foster fear and self-blame (if your spouse cheats, YOU didn't meet their needs...no critique of the cheater not choosing to communicate needs or getting counseling rather than cheating).
The book offers simplistic general advice if you don't have strong self reflection on needs or strong communication but if you are a feminist, appreciator of claims backed by objective support, or living in a more modern and equal relationship, you will find yourself frustrated with the approach the whole time you read rather than focusing on how to help your relationship.
Men tend to try to meet needs that they would value and women do the same.
But the needs of men and women are often very different and by wasting effort trying to meet the wrong needs, a couple fails to make each other happy.2.
When a spouse lacks fulfillment of any of the basic needs, it creates a thirst that must be quenched.3.
If any of a spouse’s five basic emotional needs goes unmet, that spouse becomes vulnerable to the temptation of an affair.4.
Men need recreation in their life to keep going.6.
وجدت أن الكتاب مفيد جداً و بالأخص ساعدني كثيراً على فهم نفسي و أعمق حاجاتي العاطفية ، و بالتالي فهم الكثير من الأمور و التصرفات التي تُبنى على إثر هذه الحاجات. الآن أنا حقاً أملك تصورات حقيقية و ملموسة و متوازنة عن أهم حاجاتي و رغباتي العاطفية التي تحقق لي السعادة و الإشباع.  ليس هذا فقط ، و إنما يمتد هذا الفهم و التحليل إلى الأشخاص المحيطين بنا و علاقاتهم و تفسير أعمق احتياجاتهم و تصرفاتهم التي تبدو منطقية جداً في ضوء تحلِيلات الدكتور هارلي.مرة أخرى كتاب مفيد جدا، إلى الحد الذي أوصي بقرائته لجميع المتزوجين .. أربع نجووم ..
Really great book with so many tips and principles for strengthening your marriage. Highly recommended.
This is the best book on marriage, and making a marriage work, and work well, that I have ever read.
it's might seem like a scare tactic--the subtitle IS How to Affair-Proof your Marriage--but the author wrote the book based on years of experience as a marriage counselor, and what he has to say/ what he has learned from that really rings true.
He liked it so much he recommended it to HIS friends.
I should mention that the author is Christian, and there are touches of Christianity throughout the book.
While some of the men's needs made me angry and seemed downright sexist, just because I didn't like them didn't mean that they weren't accurate.
I think a lot of female reviewers' problems with the book are that the author tells it like it is instead of how women wish it were or think it should be.
That being said, every individual has to choose how far they are willing to go to accomodate their spouse's needs without compromising who they are.The bottom line is, the book provides insight on what makes your spouse happy and fulfilled and offers good, practical advice on steps you can take to make your marriage better.
تحميل كتاب احتياجاته واحتياجاتها من هذا الرابط :http://goo.gl/taitI9
I found this helpful in separating out and enunciating what I need in marriage. And understanding what my husband needs. Like most marriage books it would be best if both parties can read it. His concept of a love bank and marriage is for your needs to be met seemed surprised me some. It's very different than the holy language of most Christian marriage books that marriage is to sanctify you and love is an axiom not a feeling. I felt like this book gives a person more hope because it describes how the feelings of love can be regained.
It means that if we focus on understanding what our spouse's emotional needs are, work to fulfill them - and if they do the same for us - then the love feelings will return.
Negative Argument #2: "This book is sexist"Harley does divide emotional needs into male and female, GENERALLY speaking, but he stresses over and over that these needs do not correspond always to men and women exactly and consistently.
Just guidelines.The part of this book that gets the most flack is the part on "physical appearances." Harley gives specific examples of how women can appear more attractive to their husbands, IF he has a need for attractiveness.
While the author's content could have been pruned a bit to make the book more concise, (it did seem wordy at times and parts of the book dragged on with excessive and unnecessary information like how to diet effectively or the differing physical reactions during sexual relations), and easier to read, I think his overall message is important and is even essential to know if one is to have a lasting and fulfilling marriage.
I think his chapter on how to save a marriage after an affair was spot on.
Không phải là dung túng hay bênh vực những người ngoại tình nhưng mình đã hiểu lý do vì sao họ bắt đầu có quan hệ ngoài luồng hay có tình cảm với một người không phải vợ mình hay thậm chí yêu cả vợ lẫn bồ.Có một điểm mình cũng thấy rất thú vị và hay ho nhận ra, đấy là trường hợp vợ và chồng không có chung sở thích thì có nên mỗi người theo đuổi sở thích riêng của mình hay không (trong phần nói về việc người đàn ông muốn có bạn đồng hành chia sẻ thú vui của mình)?
Also, to stay in love and wanting to keep being married, you need to meet each others emotional needs, and your emotional needs and your partner's are likely not identical.
So you must find out what meets your partner's needs and try to do that.
I think the Love Languages book said the same things in a more updated way with broader application and more modern gender roles.
I did like the activities interest inventory in the appendix and did that with my husband to identify new things we might want to do together.
It took me thirty years and reading this book to forgive them and to realize that their actions were somewhat predictable and not all their fault.
I now know that it wasn't that I was imperfect or that they were; we were woefully unprepared and untrained to be marital partners.
This book sent me on a mission to read about five other books that have (I hate to say the word) educated me to the point of being a capable and competent marriage partner.
The five needs for men are sex, recreational companionship, an attractive spouse, domestic support, and admiration, while womens' needs are affection, conversation, honesty, financial support, and family commitment. Though these needs are not true for everyone and may switch or be shared by both sexes. I read this book in the late '80s early '90s....it held some eye opening ideas that I myself wasn't ready to understand. Yet now in the present and second marriage..we practice it and have a deep understanding of one another.Read this book and follow, it will help both partners in having a beautiful life together.
The author's blunt writing style is refreshing within the relationship-enhancing genre. He's a counselor fed up with people not able to make their marriages work, and he provides countless examples of what will happen if a partner's needs are not met. Chapters include the top 5 needs for men and women, toggling between the sexes. Though I don't agree with all 5 of the top women's needs, I did gain a better understanding of the other sex and what to watch for in my next relationship.
