https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/170622.Weep_No_More_My_Lady
But sometimes you need books like this just as you need junk food, though you should indulge in that infrequently.
She has written books of the like for so many years.Aw shucks, I'll make Alvirah Meehan the main character of my paragraph.
There are a few choice people, all involved in the death of actress (an oscar winner, no less) Leila Lasalle.
Ted was the boyfriend of Lasalle.But seriously, I wonder why till now I haven't read mysteries with working class people as the main hero.
Thirdly, she had got, once, many years ago, many loyal fans.It's a wonder to guess what makes certain people tick.
This novel was my first foray into Mary Higgins Clark, and my expectations were pretty high considering she is well known for being the queen of suspense.
If you're looking for a novel to kill time without having to expend a tremendous amount of energy or thought on, this is the book for you.One last thing: I feel really nit-picky commenting on this, but one thing that really drove me nuts about this book was how every single sentence of flashback dialogue attributed to the deceased sister showed her using cheesy nicknames for those closet to her.
Clark is great at keeping you guessing about who-done-it until the very end.
In fact, if I hadn't cheated and read a few paragraphs near the back I never could have put it together.
It was for any particular reason in the book, I just thought it would make for a rather boring plot line if he had actually done it.
Along the way I suspected everyone, which, I'm guessing was the authors goal.
I've read a few of her books before, long ago, and I can't remember knowing who did it.
A very 80s book but it held up fairly well. The romance, which was slight, was not believable but the mystery was nicely done except for the motive. That was hinted at but should have been fleshed out a bit more.
I really enjoyed this book - it stands out in my memory and might be the first MHC book I read years ago. I love the character Alvirah and I’m looking forward to reading more with her in them.
The weak point of the book is Elizabeth, the dead woman's sister, who is also the main character of the book.
She starts off with believing firmly in Ted's guilt, then somewhere down the line, she bursts out about suicide and finally, it ends with some silly nonsensical idea about how much she had always been in love with Ted, blah blah.
This was rather a saving grace as even though I guessed the killer in the last quarter of the book, I was still interested to know how they were all going to end up.
Not the best novel by Mary Higgins Clark.
I was surprised by the number of similarities between Weep No More, My Lady and one of Higgins Clark's newest novels All Dressed in White even though there is almost 30 years between them.
Before trial begin, like the rick and famous do, all her Leila's friends gather together at a spa.
Over the span of a week, the reader learns that everyone has their secrets and had a motive to kill Leila.
More deaths occur and Elizabeth is in a rush for time to try to find Leila's killer.
Very good. I love Mary Higgins Clark and she never disappoints and didn't with this one.
Elizabeth Lange goes to Cypress Spa to prepare for the trial of her sister Leila's murderer.
Also coincidentally, all of Leila's close friends and people who saw her on her last night have all decided that a week at the spa would be a nice relaxer before the trial.
She learns about secrets that Leila kept from her and starts to piece things together.
She starts to believe that she is at the spa with her sister's murderer...but it might not be Ted.This is a typical whodunnit and a comfort book.
They're not great reads but it's a good comfort book for a winter's day.

maybe but i think it would have been more reasonable if it were an accidental killing than an intentional one.another issue i have with the book was how the story dragged on chapter after chapter which was due to the fact that they spent the whole time in the spa.
also ted was so mysterious and tight lipped the whole time, we dont even know what he was thinking until that last scene with scott - and while he was always "concerned" with elizabeth, it never felt like love.the mystery / suspense was always classic clark - kept me reading the book while queueing at the check-in counter, while sleepy on the plane at 2am and even while waiting for my turn in the immigration.overall, i would rate is 3.75 stars for the suspense, the climax, the ending.
There are so many reasons why I love this book, and why I've read it more than half a dozen times.
I was a big MHC fan for a while, and this was my hands-down favorite.Conflicted and grieving Elizabeth runs to her friends and the relative safety of Monterey, California before having to face in court the man she thought was going to be her brother-in-law, for the charge of murdering Elizabeth's only sister.
I remember figuring out the ending, knowing that Ted was not guilty before it all clicked for everyone else, but that didn't detract from the story for some reason.Maybe it's because I'm so in love with the city of Monterey, and transported myself there each time I read it.
This one is really great!!I enjoyed the story a lot, and it's one of her best thrillers.Leila LaSalla, a famous actress, is murdrered and her fiancé, a rich businessman, is accused of her murder.
She is invited to Cypress Point Spa, where she find herself surrounded by many friends that all seem to have some hidden secrets regarding her sister!As the story goes, Elizabeth finds herself no longer sure of the accusation.
All along, i kept thinking who the killer is, is he really her fiancé, or one of her so-called friends!It's a nice story, with many twists which i enjoyed a lot :)

This is one of my favortie mystery books.
I never saw the end coming.
It is extremely well done to make the ending exciting.
This also makes the rest of the book suspenseful with clues about different characters dropped here and there.
It also draws you in because of the beginning.
Which basically anyone would want, its a very common dream, and in the book it draws you in because the dream is a reality for the characters.
The lavishness of it all is very well described to draw most of us who havent seen things like it into picturing it in reality.
I finished this book today and liked it very much. I did guess who had murdered Leila, but still enjoyed how everything was tied together. This one had Alvirha Meehan in it and I am pretty sure this is the first book that she was introduced in. She is quite the character. The only complaint I have and it is a minor one, is that some of the sentences appear to be choppy. But I did like the book and plan to read more by this author.
This was one of those really bad books that I shouldn't have bothered to finish reading. I'm not sure why this author is known as the 'Queen of Suspense' but she apparently is. Lucky I only paid a dollar or two for it
Somewhere around 3.5 stars... About half way through I thought I had it figured out and was disappointed that it was so easy, but alas in the last 40 pages or so the plot thickened and the ending did take me by surprise.
A little pulpy, but enjoyable. I've read a lot of mary Higgins Clark, but in my experience this is one of her lesser books. Seems like the motive wasn't built up enough so It wasn't a very satisfactory end.
It took a little while for the story to grip me, but once it did, it held tight. I enjoyed the previous book of hers that I read more, but this was still a thrilling read!
I remember figuring out the ending, knowing that Ted was not guilty before it all clicked for everyone else, but that didn't detract from the story for some reason.**was interested with the plot even though I know from the very start that Ted is innocent - what i wanted to know was who is the real killer and how did he do it.
maybe but i think it would have been more reasonable if it were an accidental killing than an intentional one.another issue i have with the book was how the story dragged on chapter after chapter which was due to the fact that they spent the whole time in the spa.
Mary Higgins Clark ha sido mi autora favorita desde hace 10 años, le debo a ella el principio de esta pasión por la escritura que llena mis días.
Muchas escenas, e incluso capítulos enteros pudieron no haber estado allí sin que afectara en algo a la línea de la historia principal porque tuvo tantos detalles cuyo propósito evidente fue aumentar el número de palabras del producto final.No puedo evitar comparar esta obra con Burned y Gypped de Carol Higgins Clark.
I enjoyed this story even though I knew who the murderer was from page 48. MHC attempted to make all the main people seem guilty at different times but I always went back to the same person. The whole time I hoped Id be wrong but no. It was still an interesting story and Im glad I finally read it. Leila, a famous actress is found dead after she had begun to unravel and had been drinking heavily. Everyone knew something was wrong and her last performance in a play was very bad. Many people believ
I enjoyed this story even though I knew who the murderer was from page 48.
Many people believed she could have committed suicide by intentionally falling off the balcony of her apartment until a witness claimed to have seen her fiance push her.
Her sister, Elizabeth was shocked and didn´t want to believe it but she heard him yelling at her sister over the phone just before she died.
After her sister died her secretary went to work at the spa and she thought she knew why Leila was so upset just before she died.
I will forever be grateful for Authors such a yourself.
We weren't a rich family but being able to read stories written by amazing people like yourself, well it made my entire childhood an amazing time.
I was able to go to far away lands and feel as though I was on an adventure everyday to new and wonder place, with people whom made my life better.
I look forward to reading all the adventures you create.Thank you again for sharing hour amazing talent.
I'm beyond grateful!
I will continue to feel blessed to read all the adventures you can possibly write!Your truly,Chelley Mieyal
I've been re-reading Clark's books in the order she wrote them.
This was only her 7th book (I believe), and unlike all her previous ones, this one had a bit of an Agatha Christie feel to it; the cast of characters was relatively small, the people were basically confined to a particular setting (a Pebble Beach resort) all together for the duration of the book, there were many viable possibilities of the guilty party(ies) among the people at the resort, the time span of the book was only a few days, etc.There were moments where I could tell that Clark was trying out a new writing strategy and so things (transitions, deductions, relationship development, character development) didn't feel quite so refined or natural as in some of her later books, but I still really enjoyed the book.
Leila Lasalle y su hermana menor Elizabeth, deciden irse a New York para alejarse de su madre y sus padrastros abusadores. La vida les sonríe y Leila se convierte en una famosa actriz. Sin embargo, muere al caer de su terraza. Su prometido, Ted Winters es el principal sospechoso, y el principal testigo es Elizabeth, que asegura haberlo escuchado por el teléfono mientras hablaba con su hermana, justo antes de morir.Justo antes del juicio, todos los implicados de una u otra forma se dan cita en el Spa de Min y Helmut y comienza una carrera por descubrir la verdad.
actual rating-3.5 starsit was just your average mystery, I thought it was a little too slow for my taste at the beginning, but the end was super action packed!!I guessed that the killer was Craig about 2/3 into the book.a couple things that bothered me was the fact that everyone in the story referred to the letters as “poison pen letters”, it just didn’t seem natural. Also, I thought the romance between Elizabeth and ted was completely unnecessary. it was kind of unsettling that Elizabeth declared that she was in love with her sister’s fiancée right after Leila’s death...
Enjoyed the story the narrator not so much. So not likely to listen to anything read by her again.Overall a great mystery , I pegged the culprit and was gratified to find out I was right. Interesting characters and I liked seeing how their lives entwined around each other and the victims. I don't think I could sit and read Clark, but I do enjoy listening to her stories. They catch my interest and make me want to find out who did it and why. Recommended? Yes (just not the audio version)Buy/Borrow? Borrow
Este libro fue mi estreno con esta autora. Dinámico, no te deja soltar prenda en ningún momento. Ted resulta muy convincente como héroe trágico y Sparrows también convence como heroína moderna. No vi venir el romance entre ellos porque simplemente me da cosa eso de "compartir" entre hermanas/os pero me gustó la pareja que resultaron. La única pega que le pondría a este libro es el villano, no en cuanto a que no pueda convencer como tal sino a que resulta demasiado predecible, porque es el único que realmente tiene un motivo para hacer lo que hizo.
Eigenlijk 2,5*, want zo'n hoogstaand stukje literatuur is dit zeker niet. Ik moet zeggen dat 'de dader' me uiteindelijk verraste hoewel ik had verwacht die allang op het oog te hebben, dus of ik ben gewoon niet zo goed in het raden van daders (eh, ja, dat klopt eigenlijk wel) of dat plot zat toch nog redelijk goed in elkaar. Maar goed, wel een fijn boek voor 'even tussendoor', lekker luchtig en vooral niet te zwaarmoedig of serieus.
