https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18090147-the-enchanted
This book just kicked me in the emotions.
What matters in prison is not who you are but what you want to become. This is the place of true imagination. Rene Denfeld, the author of The Enchanted has the heart of a warrior and the soul of a poet. She has written a novel about identity, understanding, the roots of crime, the reality of prison life, the possibility for redemption, and the ability of people to use imagination to rise beyond the purely material to the transcendent. There are three primary and several very strongly written se
She has written a novel about identity, understanding, the roots of crime, the reality of prison life, the possibility for redemption, and the ability of people to use imagination to rise beyond the purely material to the transcendent.
In the death row of a stone prison somewhere in America, a nameless inmate, entombed in a lightless dungeon, has constructed a fantastical appreciation for the world he inhabits, bringing a glorious light into his Stygian darkness.
But enchantment is not reserved for the inmate alone.Rene DenfeldAn investigator, known only as The Lady, is working on the case of a prisoner named York.
but he sees so much more - well beyond the confines of his bars, and he serves as an omniscient narrator who tells the stories of the other characters: "the lady," "the priest," "the warden," and york, a fellow prisoner whose death date is fast approaching.
The clouds might be fluffy and white one day, traced with pink and mauve the next, or lit on fire from a sunset.The window is the reason the death row inmates go to the visiting room to see their lawyers and investigators.
And definitely in my top ten ever....This is truly an enchanted book, a wondrous story.
It's about York, an inmate on death row who wants to die; the lady, who tries to investigate York's case to get him off the death sentence; about a fallen priest in the prison.
The mute inmate hears little men in the walls...And then the horses, the golden horses that run and run and run and make a real stampede in the prison at crucial moments.
like when I finished the Road.And the book, this is why I always want to read real books.
a real live, beautiful book.
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend. The Enchanted is one hell of a debut. Jarring, pithy, and unsettling. The story, conveyed through the eyes of a man on death row, unveils the blurred lines between guilt and innocence. He presents a world both wondrous and filled with nightmares, leading us by the hand to a gut-punch of a conclusion.  He can chat with a man like York, he can even show kindness to a man like Arden, but he knows in his heart
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend.
The Enchanted is one hell of a debut.
The story, conveyed through the eyes of a man on death row, unveils the blurred lines between guilt and innocence.
He presents a world both wondrous and filled with nightmares, leading us by the hand to a gut-punch of a conclusion.
He can chat with a man like York, he can even show kindness to a man like Arden, but he knows in his heart that they deserve to die.
Such men are like diseased dogs or demented animals.
“Inside, the lies you tell become the person you become. On the outside, sun and reality shrink people back to their actual size. In here, people grow into their shadows.” This is a book about monsters. And the stories they have to tell. Set on death row in a maximum security prison, this book is narrated by a man whose name and crimes we are not told. Through him, we see the lives of men inside the prison - those who long for death, those who would do anything to escape it, those who came to p
We also see the lives of others - a priest who wonders about redemption, prison guards who believe that some men deserve to die, and a lady who wants to save them all even though she isn't always sure why.The Enchanted is about humanity at its worst, at its most monstrous.
We all just define the line differently.But, despite what I initially wondered might be the case, this isn't a book about pushing a message.
I don't think this is about whether or not the death penalty should be used or whether or not people deserve to die, it is far more complex than that.
I smile fakely and say without hesitation (like we all do when we know damn well it’s not up our alley), “Sounds good, but I have a bunch of other books I have to read first.” All along I’m thinking, is she crazy?
They are the madman’s fantasies; the author isn’t feeding me a line that there are real wild horses underground.
Just had to mention it because I think it’s odd that it happened in two books right in a row.
(hide spoiler)]If, like me, you don’t want to touch fantasy with a ten-foot pole, think twice on this one.
Actually gave a little chuckle when the famous nun, though nameless, has a brief appearance in this book.This is a hard book to read, a book about death row inmates, just the subject matter tells the reader this is not a happy little story.
Our narrator uses books at first, "I know that when I read books about love, they are telling the truth.
This book will evoke powerful emotions in the reader, whether they hate the book or admire, (can't really use like here, it just doesn't seem appropriate) what this author has managed to put down on a page, they will not read this and feel nothing.
Beautifully written book about a prison, primarily the death row block and a lady that investigates their cases to try to get them off death row.There was love in these pages too, you end up caring about all of these characters, even the most horrific, as some of their background stories come to life.This was an enchanting and atmospheric read.
When he first started reading, he didn't know how to sound out many of the words: "Sioux, paisley, ruche, Obsolete, rubric, crux.
"Everything that is happened and will happen to me is all part of the story of this enchanted place – – all the dreams and visions and understandings that come to me in my dungeon cell."Our nameless-first-person narrator has a vivid imagination - lots of magical activity going on inside his head.
Yet at the same time - the author has us take a deep look inside the walls of prison life.
I'm finding it hard to relate a story that felt as if I was in an enchanted place, and yet is a story of prison, death, death row, a woman who comes to exchange death for life terms, and a priest who is disgraced.
But it is he, the "knower" of this place, and he sees, and feels it all.The exquisite writing of Rene Denfeld is like no other.
This book left me with many essential questions.To be mesmerized by a novel is quite a feat, and Rene Denfeld has done that for me with perfection.
This book was a perfect mix of everything I love.
This felt so real, and I loved how it bounced around between different stories to focus on various characters.
Second, I love fantasy books so it was really cool to see some fantasy elements mixed into the story.
It's all about death row and the toll it takes on the inmates and staff, but there were times when it felt like Harry Potter when golden horses or small men with hammers came onto the scene.And, finally, this story was the perfect length.
And, finally (for real this time), I loved the ending.
It's also a book about the small things that can bring hope and happiness, even when you're a death row inmate.I thought this was going to be more fantastical than realistic, and while there are elements of fantasy and imagination, this is a book firmly rooted in the realism of the criminal justice system.
And while it's certainly a bit of a downer, Rene Denfeld has created such a memorable cast of characters, and designed such a unique spin on what we've come to expect from books and movies about prisons, this is a book you'll feel in your heart as it engages your mind.
Like many people I had been putting off reading this book largely because I don't really go for depressing literature and what could be more depressing than a story set on Death Row. Well I was so, so wrong.
This is an amazing book, beautifully written and not a bit depressing even though it is often sad.
I loved the golden horses and the little men in the walls which turned out to be in the narrator's mind but were delightful anyway.
An amazing book which grabbed me on page one and didn't let me go until the very last word.
The world, where you enter for redemption and become the incurable lepers, never to be accepted in our world again, “This is a place of true imagination.” You become what you pretend to be, monsters in most cases, Welcome to The Enchanted, where death dances naked and lovers are always to leave in the midcoitus!Our narrator is such a faceless shadow, who occupies very little space in the world he exists, who chooses not to be heard and never been seen all his life by any human eye, he is, what our world names “psycho case”.
I don't think I've ever read a book with so many broken people.
I think that some readers are going to say that the author is promoting propaganda but I think she was sharing with us a different take on humanity.
She shares with us a side to these individuals that we could not possibly think are human.
The book spoke to me about a broken world that exists with real evil and real people struggling.
There's a lot going on in this book and the author writes in a way you don't want to stop reading regardless of how difficult the scenarios are.
The Enchanted is not your traditional fairy tale. It is deep, dark and disturbing, and takes place on death row. It's what is created to sustain an inmate's sanity and survival. It's a glimpse into the human side of monsters who have done unthinkable horrors to others. It's a story of hope even as death waits. This is a read I found myself putting down frequently to contemplate. Denfeld manages to do the unthinkable: have us feel compassion for men we consider evil. 5 stars and a must read.
I am late to the party on this book and I'm going to be the odd one out on "The Enchanted". Most people loved it but sadly not me. It is original and beautifully written but so so so dark that it didn't work for me. The magical realism with the subject matter I struggled with. Don't take my word for it. Try It! It's a case of it's me not the book.
I pre ordered my copy in Hardback as this was going to be one of those books that would not be borrowed under any circumstances and would remain on my book shelf for many years to come.But unfortunately I wasn't enchanted or impressed by it and was left feeling rather disappointed by much of the book and I will try and explain my reasons for my disappointment.First the book is set in an ancient stone prison somewhere in America and to begin with I was drawn into the story until the author introduced the magic realism aspect of the tale and I was completely thrown and just disconnected with the book completely.
It is the gift of understanding men like me.”This book is compelling, haunting, mesmerizing, edgy, uncomfortable, unforgettable.
I feared it might be too gruesome and put off reading it for a long time based on that fear.
How can I explain how awesome this book is; that I’m grateful to the author for composing something that reached my deepest humanity?
It’s fiction based on fact because she’s the lady who has been there and knows that ugly and disturbing as it is, more people need to look more closely if we ever hope to have some answers and hope.
Rene Denfeld's extraordinary debut The Enchanted is one such book.
He is the prison's most notorious death row resident, but his crimes remain untold.
Some characters are named: the prisoners York, Risk, Arden; Conroy, a brutal guard; Auntie Beth, a witness to a young boy's wretched upbringing.
She is a death row investigator, like the author herself.
Death is nearly as present a character as any living one in The Enchanted and the reader is reminded that we are all the walking dead, facing the same inevitable end as those on death row.
No on deserves death more than someone like York or Striker or especially Arden.
"Back so long ago, when they built this enchanted place, they killed men in three ways: They waited for them to die, they worked them to death, and they hanged them. Not much has changed. Instead of working men to death, there is a slow starvation of the body and soul. And instead of rope, they use a machine." "This is an enchanted place. Others don't see it, but I do." Publisher's synopsis The enchanted place is an ancient stone prison, viewed through the eyes of a death row inmate who finds es
"Back so long ago, when they built this enchanted place, they killed men in three ways: They waited for them to die, they worked them to death, and they hanged them.
The enchanted place is an ancient stone prison, viewed through the eyes of a death row inmate who finds escape in his books and in re-imagining life around him, weaving a fantastical story of the people he observes and the world he inhabits.
ReviewIf there is one book that you simply must read over the course of 2014, it is The Enchanted.
Even monsters need a person who truly wants to listen--to hear--so that someday we might find the words that are more than boxes.
Then maybe we can stop men like me from happening." This is the saddest, hardest book I have ever read.
But the language and style used in this novel show us the humanity even in the worst of us.It took me 4 days to read this mercifully short novel.
I say mercifully short because it made my soul ache while reading, so could only read for short periods of time.
But I couldn't stop reading, either.
A nice woman who lay down with her baby for a nap might have held the book...........Book possess theme somewhat like SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION, But quite peculiar in its own way.So many Changes have taken place which changes from The enchanted to Liberal(some sort of) one.I liked the way writer initiated and went through in last chapter.It also possess philosophical touche at every instances.Good lines-	*"Sometimes, when reading a book, I would think of the other people who might have touched itbefore it was donated.
A nice woman who lay down with her baby for a nap might have held the book I was reading.
“The books helped me see that truth is not in the touch of the stone but in what the stone tells you.
And the stones tell me so much.
But if I get some things wrong, then please forgive me.
This place is too enchanted to let the story go untold…”Rene Denfeld's magical, beautiful book is unlike anything I have read before.
It felt almost like being in a trance, her writing is just mesmerizing, and even though much of the book is dark and occasionally heartbreakingly unpleasant, her writing is so beautiful that it lends compassion, breaking the spell of any ugliness.
Enchanted.
A surprisingly beautiful book set in one of the most depressing places in modern society--prison's death row.
The inmate is a great reader, mostly self-taught, and his love of reading transports him beyond the walls of his prison.
He shies away from most human contact, prizes his privacy, but is very aware of what is going on around him and the people who visit: the warden, the fallen priest and the lady investigator who is frequently hired to find information to help stop an execution.The case she is working on now is most unusual because the prisoner, York, wants to die.
The Enchanted is a dark and gloomy heartbreaking tale with just enough hope and magic to bring the reader back to the light, but not a book I would read again.It is a story about the ugliness of prison life on Death Row, of living life in an evil underground dungeon.
It is about surviving, but wishing death would come bringing a new beginning.It is also a story of a lonely man who will not speak bc his past is so vile, but reads a favorite book to let the words carry him away to another place, another world not so ugly.
I am kind of embarrassed - I really thought this was going to be a fantasy novel.
So, lemme tell you - this is not a fantasy novel!
But, not quite as good.I liked the story okay, but I am not sure I got what the author was trying to do with the way she wrote it.
Also, something about the way it was written got under my skin a little (just a tiny irritation, not something I can put my finger on, but it was not a comfortable read).

Or an inmate's conviction may be upheld and the ultimate punishment may be imposed.Not only does Denfeld address the lives of those on death row, she reveals the darkness of prison life.
Corrupt administrators who become rich by promoting the trafficking of those drugs.In such a nightmarish world, one does not expect to find the beauty Denfeld is able to depict through the narration of a nameless inmate, a fallen priest who administers to the condemned, and "The Lady," an unnamed death penalty investigator.
Denfeld, without resorting to lengthy legal descriptions of the arduous appellate process in capital cases, portrays the hopelessness of inmates on death row.
