https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/176797.The_Oathbound
There's a new omnibus edition of all three of the Vows & Honor books that is scheduled to come out in April; I wonder if the publisher will just perpetuate all the current errors and make new ones, or if they'll pay someone with a brain and and a knowledge of English to proofread.
(2018 - I think this rating may be because I *really* don't like the long story about the evil demon, which takes up a lot of the book.)
While this book takes place in the same universe as Lackey's Heralds of Valdemar series, it takes place in a different region of the world (the Southern lands).
I highly recommend it to any fans of fantasy, especially if they are looking for female centric stories with humor and intricate world building on par of Tolkien and GRRM.
I first read these book as a teenager, after unsuccessfully attempting to slog my way through various high fantasy series.
As a teenage girl, and woman of color, I was longing to read about someone like me, while still exploring the concepts and world building of the fantasy genre.
It was later published in the 'third' book of the series, Oathblood - which is really just a collection of missing stories, not a whole narrative in and of itself - and I've read it once there and once in the S&S volume where it was originally published, but it's been a long time since either and I was somewhat thrown off by the missing information.The second thing that I'd forgotten is that this book, for all that it's somewhat disjointed, actually has a coherent overall arc in the development of Tarma and Kethry's relationship.
The Oathbound was published 30 years ago.
Let's think about that: Mercedes Lackey was certainly a pioneer of her field.
In 1988, Mercedes Lackey managed to get a traditional publisher to publish her series starring TWO women with agency.
What wasn't so amazing was the small things: the causal (off page) gang rapes (there were two) that happen to Tarma; the child rape of Kethry; references to pedophilia; the rape and murder of googads of nameless women, etc.
It's age is showing in places and its tone make it much closer to YA than it would have been 30 years ago...but I still enjoyed!
But I feel like the word that best fits the actual book is "odd".The structure of the book is odd: multiple times, there'd be a fun leadup to a cool scene/adventure (e.g. there's someone to fight!/they got hired as bodyguards!) but then the actual meat of the thing would be skipped and the next scene would be the bit after ("Let's sit around and drink together and chat about how awesome that fight we just had was."/"OK now we've finished escorting her and are looking for the next job.") I found it quite frustrating and..
I always skip this series when I feel like reading Valdemar novels, I think because I'd heard they weren't actually set in Valdemar proper. And I was right; they aren't, and somehow for me that just made them less enjoyable. I prefer Companions and Heralds, and while this wasn't bad, it just wasn't what I love about Lackey.So it was good, but not great. I will read the next two as I have themin the same new paperback edition, but this won't be a series I'll return to like I do with other books in the series. Three stars.
The Oathbound is about two women, Kethry, who used to be a noble of a poverty-stricken house, but after her brother practically sold her into marriage, she took up the path of the mage, and Tarma, a swordswoman from a Nomadic Horse Clan, who became a servant of her peoples' Goddess in order to get revenge on her clan's murder.
** Given I once blogged about converting books to anime, it kind of makes me want an anime series about Tarma and Kethry.
Because that would be awesome, and unlike some anime I've seen, it would convert well.*** Need to read some of the original works in the genre.
Sooo...I was planning on doing a full review of this series once I'd read the two novels and the book of short stories/novellas.
But after reading this first book and then letting it sit...I just don't care to continue.
I liked the duo of strong female leads and the world-building was alright...there's potential in the magic system too.
But honestly, nothing hooked me enough to make me want to continue on.
The book mostly felt like a series of shorts strung together and while it wasn't for me, I'm hoping that Lackey's other work will interest me more.
There was an awful lot of rape in this book.
There are nods to queer romance here or there, but good ol' Mercedes takes great pains to remind you that our main characters Aren't Like That.
Later chapters in the book also feature a pretty weak understanding of the lines between sex and gender.
Sometimes it's more like reading several loosely strung together short stories rather than a single novel.
Because here's the thing: I actually liked the book.
Was this a great book?
No. But let's be honest: your average fantasy novel is pretty much garbage*.
This read like it was comprised of a number of short stories just stuck together, which apparently it was!
It doesn’t have much plot, chapters are disconnected and often the narrative builds up to a climax...
A number of people have commented on the amount of rape and abuse in this story already so I won’t go over old ground but a lot of it is dealt with in a problematic way, rapists being punished by having their crime repeated on them etc.
Men being punished for abuse by being turned into women and then being abused themselves?
I don't know why I went into this book believing it to have a feminist vibe— albeit some 70s first wave feminism, complete with slut shamey, creepy fetichistic and essentialist vibes, as well as the good ol' rape, which the author uses and...
The fact is, women in this book are at a constant risk to being reduced to their body, even worse, to the second side of a disgusting dichotomy between strong woman and raped woman, in a crappy slut-shaming/victim blaming vibe.
I feel like this author misread Andrea Dworkin somewhere and went for the "all "penis in vagina sex" is rape" trope, because certainly it seems that all mention of heterosexuality in this book is rapey.
Since I've pretty much run out of Marion Zimmer Bradley titles, I thought I'd try Lackey, who collaborated with Bradley on a book.I have to say that, overall, I liked this book; I really am intrigued by its two main characters, Tarma and Kethry.
Again, overall, it's a great read, but it lacks the through plot or story line that compels you to turn the page.
While it is rare for a Valdemar novel, the magically bound best friends in this book are both human.
This book was actually a little less girl-powerful than I was expecting.
Tarma--the nomadic swordswoman--is taught by spirits who seem to be almost entirely men for all that her Goddess is a woman.
Moreover, every victim we actually meet in this book is a woman--usually one that has been raped horribly.
The first time Kethry--the mage--uses this punishment is poetic enough, sending the rapist bandit leader back to his gang-banging-band, but the subsequent repetition of this punishment as completely torturous through the rest of the novel leaves me cold.
If I was to characterize this novel, I would say that it was a competently executed, workman-like piece of fantasy fiction.
If the depiction of men in this novel is any reflection of the author’s view of the male species, then it is safe to say that she doesn’t particularly hold the gender in high regard…most of the men who populate the story are unethical, immoral or simply evil…with a good measure of sexual deviance thrown in for good measure…Still, the story was enjoyable enough…the final punishment for the male demon antagonist was a fitting piece of irony…and so I will give this story 3.8/5.
I read 'By the Sword' before this book - which begins when the two protagonists of this series are older women - and liked both characters, especially the swordswoman Tarma, so decided to give this a try.
Firstly, this book starts off when the two characters have already met - their origin story was published in a volume of the Sword and Sorceress series.
In that first story, the two women apparently ended up bonded magically by the goddess and, because Tarma's vows make her "asexual" Kethry agrees to rebuild Tamra's tribe by eventually having as many kids as she can manage.
I don't read a lot of short stories, but I really liked this collection. Tarma and Kethry are well thought out, engaging, strong characters. The stories are a good addition to Valdemar lore - they provide some excellent background on Shin'a'in culture. Highly recommended for anyone wanting to read some fantasy lore - especially for those who are already Mercedes Lackey fans.
2014 reread:You can definitely tell that these were short stories formerly published in the S&S magazine. They have that detached-but-connected feel to them. Still, excellent tales! It's lovely to see that Mercedes Lackey was already writing so well so early in her career.---First read: approx 2009
I'm heavy into RITA award reading now and can't share those books, so I'm doing a bit more of my #readinghistory! I loved this whole series, but Tarma made a huge impression on me, back in the day. She started my interest in a true warrior woman.
I understand this was initially released as a serial, but it suffers in book form. Every chapter has to waste time retelling bits just read, and I found that frustratingOtherwise very enjoyable.
This was just SO underwhelming. Anytime the tension built up into something interesting, like a fight or confrontation or drama, it would all be skipped over and suddenly resolved. Boring.
More like a collectionI didn't feel like this was a complete novel. More like a collection of related short stories or novellas. I did enjoy it, but wished it was more cohesive.
Needs more Warrl.
THIS IS A REVIEW OF THE OATHBOUND ONLY AND NOT OF THE SUBSEQUENT TITLES IN THE OMNIBUS: OATHBREAKERS AND OATHBLOOD.It’s a sword-and-sorcery about two female partners bonded together under an oath.
They are on the road because they hope to establish a school where Tarma can teach swords skills and Kethry sorcery, but they also harbour a hope of returning to Tarma’s clan, where they can raise a family and a new clan because we are told Tarma’s old clan was viciously wiped out in prior events.Honestly, the entire story was fascinating from start to finish.
A recurring villain turns up in the latter half of the book to pretend to give it some plot, but a lot of that gets bogged down in the excessive rape.
Lackey's other works are guilty of this too, but it really was excessive here.Anyway, I wasn't sure if I was going to continue to read about these two, despite having other books about them.
(I'll be honest, I sort of miss Valdemar proper, you know?) But after having read review of Oathbreakers, I think I will read on.
And I know By the Sword sort of bridges things between this and the next Valdemar series so.
It is a lot more feminist than I remembered, possibly because when I was in high school I didn't even know what feminism actually meant.
There was also a LOT of rape happening, and although it was not the main focus and not written with the sort of gratuitous detail that so many male authors seem to lovingly linger over, I still find myself wondering if it's really necessary.
That I had to take down a star because it seriously threw me from the story as I sat there staring into space, contemplating why having your entire family + extended family murdered + yourself faintly maimed wasn't enough trauma for a woman that she had to be raped as well.
like a LOT of women/girls are raped and killed off screen.
and theres this pervasive sense from the narrative that its basically impossible for anyone except like the strongest (eg our two heroines) to survive rape.
idk it just felt a little bit like it was often handled flippantly because of how pervasive it was and who cares about doing anything more than avenging the memories of the dead women because obvs no one ever survives rape.
The adventures of Tarma, Shin'a'in Swordsworn, and Kethry, White Winds sorceress bound to the magical sword Need, begin in this collection of short stories.
Eventually joined by Warrl, a wolf-like kyree from the Pelagir Hills, Tarma and Kethry wander the lands, fulfilling their vows to fight evil wherever it is found.Though the stories are set in the same universe as Valdemar, Tarma and Kethry never cross the borders into that land.
Their adventures take place outside Valdemar's borders, in the Pelagirs, the Dhorisha Plains, and elsewhere.
Having said that, the book is filled with Lackey's usual good stuff: strong female characters, magic, and humour.
I've read this book before, and like many of Lackey's earlier Valdemar novels, it's a little less hit you on the head obvious although she still falls victim of "telling" about a character's personality through their (incredibly un-subtle thoughts) rather than actual "showing" through actions and character development.
Particularly in the second act of the book when apparently a plot point is that Tarma is coddling Kethry with ZERO actual actions showing this and despite the constant emphasis that Tarma treats Kethry like an "absolute equal." She could have left that out as some sort of underlying character arc and just told the story with the demon.
A fine nostalgia read.
The narrative is a little disjointed -- more a collection of short stories than a novel proper -- but it hangs together well enough, at least for me.
Admittedly I've read the Vows and Honor series many times since I first picked it up in sixth grade, so it might be less easy to follow for someone reading it for the first time since the story where Tarma and Kethry meet isn't actually included.
I enjoyed this story and the world, but I can see that this is one of Mercedes Lackey's earlier works. I love her books. This one felt rougher by a less experienced author. The book consisted of disjoint short stories with the last one continuing some of the prior stories. Moreover, the book ended with a magical resolution mostly out of nowhere, as opposed to a resolution by the efforts of the main characters themselves.
