https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/827031.Karma_Yoga
Such a person can be in the middle of the densest city traffic and his mind will be as if he's in a cave by himself, and he's intensely working at all times.Vivekananda describes how the concept of morality and duty varies greatly depending on the country or culture: what's considered right and moral in one country can be thought wrong and evil in another.
Because Karma results from every action, there's no way to attain perfection simply by doing good works, because each good work will also have some negative effect.
I remember the first time I worked through Leaves of Grass.
It probably took me at least a couple weeks of sweat and tears until it finally "clicked".
The moment Leaves of Grass "clicked" with me I knew that that moment was to become the beginning of Whitman's influence on my life and thoughts.
The moment I finished reading the first chapter of this book I knew I was going to re-read it many times in my lifetime.
I also knew I was going to read every word Swami Vivekananda has ever written.
Swami Vivekananda is one of the most brilliant writers I have EVER read. The clarity he has in this thoughts and the conviction he has in his arguments is unparalleled. His books are life changing. Highly, highly recommend.
A practical guide to live Karma Yogavery engaging and intellectually stimulating. helps build a mental model and shifts the paradigm as it relates to work attitude and reward motivations. it shows the way and encourages the reader to explore more through practice and experimentation. does not provide any recipe or checklist if that is what one is interested in. having the foundational knowledge of Bhagavadgita helps to better appreciate this book.
I think you can't review books written by Swami Vivekananda. Just the simplest of the things in life are explained so beautifully and some concepts which otherwise seem strange when uttered but him are nothing but a matter of obedience for me.
The best book i read in my life. Trying to practice the values from the book in my life. It is a must read book, definitely it can guide you in the proper track in life.
This book along with the others in the series changed my whole world outlook.
I have always felt that there is a co-relation between Physics, Chemistry and other hardcore Science subjects with Spirituality and Philosophy.
And reading this book my thought was turned into belief.
Everything in this world is striving for freedom; Stars, Planets, Atoms, Molecules and so is our Life.
Thats the cycle of life.
In this book it is said that our Bhagavad Gita has many criticism as it preaches " work without motive" Critics believes that working without motive is not possible.
But this book gives a strong justification that "Working without motive i.e the longing for result is the best form of work." such works leads to liberation.
My 1st book of Swami Vivekananda. Feeling like, I have read 300+ books so far and yet to taste this absolute gem.Swami Vivekananda is a genius of highest order. No other writer/philosopher can come near him when it comes to having a crystal clear life philosophy, and he has this uncanny ability to write his thought in immensely memorable lines. He talks what he feels is true without bothering about political correctness and many similar ills that afflicts our society these days.A must read book. Strongly recommend.
Swami Vivekananda... what an amazing thought process and ability to communicate the most complex concepts of life. It was an awesome read and was completely bowled over. Rest of the frameworks and books in the modern world seem nothing on similar topics when compared to Vivekananda's thoughts and wisdom.. these are just timeless virtues and I cannot imagine that so much of wisdom in Vivekananda's books is just available for 50 Indian Rupees ! Strongly recommend to all my friends
Simply a fantastic telling of some of the most ancient Indian philosophical works. The power of this man's thinking is simply amazing. Truly a must read. A fantastic philosophy, based on the ideas from the Gita. I am not too religious a person, but the ideals here appeal to the most practical aspect of a person.
It's a chapter from The Complete Works of Swami Vivekananda. An Ultimate Philosophy on The Art of Living.
Brief, pithy and brilliant, this book is the best possible introduction to Vikekananda and Vedanta. Swami-ji's clear-eyed and unflinching wisdom are bracing and inspiring.
I really enjoy the thoughts Vivekananda shares. Definitely worth reading again.
This book reinforces 'The Bhagavad Gita' that good and evil, happiness and misery, restlessness and peace are dependent upon the perception and deeds of individual.
Consider your work as supreme God and always fulfil your duty of householder, son, husband and father diligently.
A householder can even achieve spiritual freedom without restoring to sanyas if he becomes proficient in self abnegation.
It's an equilibrium of good evil, happiness and misery.
The diligence of a worker should be measured in his will and passion to perform his duty according to his cultural and social morals and expectations.
The author, Swami Vivekananda, who was one of the greatest spiritual leaders during India's independence movement, is both erudite and to the point and clearly explains complex concepts with easy to understand examples.This book draws from philosophy of Gita and Vedanta to illustrate the universal message that the only way, or at least a concrete way, to happiness and freedom is to work with the motive of bringing joy and happiness to others, for the good of others.
Another gem is " It is very hard thing to understand, but you will come to learn in time that nothing in the universe has power over you until you allow it to exercise such a power".
A beautiful treatise on the spiritual power of "work." I'd like to share some choice quotes:"The greatest...
That is the ideal of Karma Yoga, and if you have attained to that, you have really learned the secret of work."" ...
that to be an ideal householder is a much more difficult task that to be an ideal senyasin (monk/renunciate).
the greatest work is done only when there is no selfish motive to prompt it.
Yet it is work through the sense of duty that leads us to work without any idea of duty.
This is probably the only book or reading for that matter, that has given me altogether a more pragmatic and a unique perspective towards the human life on this planet called the earth and our actions and herein lies an excellent motivation to work , work for work sake without renunciation of it except the fruit thereof.
There are moments or state of mind sometimes, when we feel to lose the motivation to work as we seem to perceive the futility of the work or nature of the world as we see ourselves to be no worthwhile to effect a great cause/change to this world, but as you ponder over what is there , the perspective you gain will be unparalleled.
After reading other two essays in yoga by Vivekananda, in this book I felt I was finally able to connect all the dots collected before.
This book is also the one that's closest to our western mindset, hence probably easier to understand and relate with.
Three key takeaways: the definition and motivation of work, the discussion on morality, and the idea of doing work for the sake of it - detaching ourselves from the results.As usual though, if you're looking for precise answers you won't find them here: the book's power is to make yourself curious enough and with enough background so you can continue the exploration by yourself.
To Indian readers, the concept of Karma and Karma yoga isn't peculiar or strange.
Vivekananda is what you would call the educated, well-read Vedantist.
The man holds the highest regard for Buddha and his selfless approach to the world.
There are two things that have deeply affected me in this book.
one - Helping a man physically is good, helping a man intellectually is better and helping someone spititually is the best.
Two - The whole world is made up of Space, time and causation and even thoughts have an effect on karma.
This is an amazing read and well supported by science.
This book is ideal for anyone who wants to get a succinct description of one of the most important theories of Hinduism. Vivekananda talks about the various ways that can lead to "freedom" and, in particular, reasons why "karma" (work) is the most practical way to achieve that. He underpins a pragmatic way to achieve absolute freedom without the need to worship any particular God or following any particular religion. He also provides an interesting reasoning behind why each religion propagates the idea of dedicating the work done to God and not towards any selfish motives. Quick, great read!
Many have pondered over the question "Which life is better? Life of renunciation or life of action. A life led by ascetic or A life of Householder?". Karma Yoga is a beautiful answer to that question and much more.In this book, Swami Vivekananda tells us what is the true purpose of self. What is freedom and why do we have to strive for freedom. Through different stories he conveys the beautiful philosophical outlook. This is a book I definitely want to re-read.
Of the four type of Yogas, one can attain enlightenment just through work. How to do that is the essence of this book. An amazing read, one can observe how commanding and clear Vivekananda was, articulating the principles of the karma yoga. Written around late 1890s this book is a timeless masterpiece. Wish Vivekananda spent more years on earth!
Selfless work is the key. But I still couldn't get the idea of 100% detachment from everything (especially from relationships) as it's the hope of living as I understood. If you are unattached, won't we wasting this precious gift called life? I always find it important to have good relations and happiness than becoming rich. I'll be reading it again to clear my doubts.
This book is a must read for every person on the planet, especially if you are new to the Hindu Philosophy. Full with practical knowledge about perfecting our lives this book with lectures from Swami Vivekananda takes you to a different world altogether. I have also written a detailed review: https://ishbat.wordpress.com/2016/11/...
Karma Yoga is great approach to one's self-development. Although it is one of four major Yoga paths, it doesn't exclude philosophy of the rest. What lays in heart of Karma Yoga is action; the action which sets us free from this illusional determination and whose aim is to become detached and reach unselfishness. It is one philosophy book worth reading no matter if you are religious or not.
Great Philosophy. Swami Vivekanand speaks clearly to leave all superstitions and to follow one's own convictions but choosen wisely from scripture or experienxe. He refers infirmity as the greatest sin and fearlessness as life. His words has powerful impact. His explaination of the Karamyoga introduced in Bhagavad Gita is unparallel.
Hmmmmmm.......I will read it again i think.. and again.. and again... to differentiate Abstract from concrete. That is where we all falter.If i really care about what he is trying to say in here.. i cant even say he was a genius.. because the genius does not care.. :)
The essence of the book revolves around self-abnegation and how does one perform work in an unattached manner. It is a simple book which explains what it is to be a Karma Yogi in easily understandable way. Very thought provoking!
Mais um para o livros de yogue 🍃
