https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7857195-squirrel-seeks-chipmunk
The concept of Anthropomorphism makes you believe that this book will be excellent or is it because I had to wait on a HUGE waiting list from the library?
The concept is that animals have human traits and I think the author was trying to show that people are judgmental hypocrites, especially when it comes to choosing friends, raising children, dating, religion etc.
the frog mother comes over looking for her children...blah, blah.
I rarely leave a book unfinished even if I think it is terrible, because the overall concept must be reached for me to decide.
I never laughed, I didn't relate and I had a yucky feeling after every chapter.
I’m not saying this is better than his other books, because that would probably be a lie, but I think it’s at least as good as most of them.There are so many things in my life to free associate with these stories because he got it all so fudging right, but I’m going to narrow it down to just a couple.
I think it’s fun to write book reports, so who am I to judge?You probably already know by now if you like David Sedaris or not, so I’d be silly to try to sell him to you.
Instead of Sedaris's usual personal essays, here are dark, dark fables starring talking animals, each story brimming with all the horrible things people say and do to each other, and ending with an even more horrible zinger.
(Picture adorable children's picture book pig Olivia with her eyes plucked out, and you have an idea about Ian Falconer's creepy accompanying illustrations.) The narration was the best part—Sedaris is so good at reading his own material, though in this case he only reads a couple of the stories, and Elaine Stritch, Dylan Baker, and Sîan Phillips join him, and ably, for the rest—but they were still reading really disturbing stuff.
Usually, Sedaris has me laughing helplessly.
Actually it is like a cross between Woody Allen absurdist neurosis and Eudora Welty Southern Gothic grotesque with a nod to Gary Larson’s The Far Side.
I actually liked the anthropomorphism better; it served to soften the impact of his snarky delivery.
Still a lot of disturbing images, even sometimes funny at the same time, but if a reader is not offended by the rest of the book, then one of the last vignettes was by far the best: a great horned owl, a hippopotamus, a gerbil and a troupe of singing leeches.
KAWAIII!!!Squirrel Seeks Chipmunk is not your typical David Sedaris, self-confessional book.
Fun, fairly light stuff with a bit of clever dashed in now and then as always found in a stew of David Sedaris stories.
These stories might be fictional, they might not be self-referential, but they're pure Sedaris.
Listening to his previous books on cd and having seen him live has given me a taste for hearing his voice put to his words (...as well as totally making us besties, even if he doesn't know it yet.) The way he narrates them adds a good deal of flavor.
That flavor may be a bit sour or a tad reminiscent of bile even, but I find small portions of it absolutely delicious.
A funny little book of stories starring animals in the place of people. The audio was fun-especially the tales narrated by Elaine Stritch.I don't think I would have enjoyed it as much if I had read it instead. Also, the price seems kind of high to me for such a short book. Thankfully, I checked this out of my library for free. **LIBRARIES RULE!**
This book gets ZERO stars!
In fact, David Sedaris should give me 5 stars for reading this piece of trash!
I have always been a fan of David Sedaris.
I did not like the first story, but I knew it would get much better.
After all, it was written by David Sedaris.
The second story was no better, not even slightly interesting.
The stories were both boring and repulsive - a rare combination that made them even worse than that sounds!
I read the whole damn book because Sedaris's previous books have always been great - they always made me laugh out loud.
Well, perhaps the bonus story goes on the minus side, as it is a rather sickening tale of vomit eating flies.I smiled occasionally listening to this book, but I didn't laugh once.
This is from someone who has laughed herself sick at other Sedaris offerings.I will say, the stories are imaginative and well-crafted (only David Sedaris could give us an owl gerbiling a hippo).
sat·ireˈsaˌtī(ə)r/nounthe use of humor, irony, exaggeration, or ridicule to expose and criticize people's stupidity or vices, particularly in the context of contemporary politics and other topical issues.I've come to realize that I'm particular about satire, especially when it's supposed to be funny.
I could go on, but the point I'm making is that I like my satire to have bite and sharp edges, but most of all it should be funny.
Because this, despite all of the (lies) endorsements about being just the kind of edgy funny I should like, was just not fucking funny.
It was the other kind of satire - like Flatland.
The-horrible-is-the-point kind of morality lesson satire.
If you're looking for a quick, entertaining left-field read that will supply you with the odd chuckle and occasional grin, then 'Squirrel Seeks Chipmunk' will satisfy.
He takes the common (and occasionally not-so-common) animal and puts them in a variety of human-esque predicaments that still greatly adhere to the laws of the animal kingdom.
It can be sweet and funny one moment, or surprisingly cruel and brutal at other times.
Various animal characters have conversations, arguments, and heartfelt moments.
For an extra bonus, listen to the audio book featuring the voice talents of Elaine Stritch, Dylan Baker, Sian Phillips, and David Sedaris.
A solid three stars for a good book.
David says that some journalist described this book as “bed time stories for children who drink”. Well said journalist, whoever you are.It’s about animals behaving in the petty, vain, ignorant, arrogant way humans do. Not his best work, but it wasn’t terrible either.
So David Sedaris has written several essays from the point of view of different animals living in the wild and dealing with day-to-day issues.
It’s not just a love for owls that won we over (but they are adorable) it is Sedaris way with words how he effortlessly constructs these hilarious interactions between siblings, parents, bigot owls (yep), a lovely hippo and an extremely intelligent and “invasive” gerbil.
I just found the whole thing endearing really.I was disappointed to find out that David Sedaris does not narrate the whole audio book himself, but then I noticed Elaine Stritch as one of the narrators aka Colleen Donaghy Jacks Mum from 30Rock.
OMG!
Heard him speak recently, and he read two stories from this book - due out in October.
I'm not a huge fan of his satire, preferring his autobiographical stuff rather, but these stories were certainly funny and crowd-pleasing.
Ian Falconer, author of the Olivia children's books, will be doing the illustrations.
Can't wait!!Got this for Christmas, and Whoa!
Liked it way better than I thought I would - much harsher and more caustic than anything he's done before.
Like Aesop but much scarier and meaner.
I'd read it again too just to enjoy his perfect command of everyday American speech.
Well... no. Just no.
I am struggling for words to describe this..... its definitely not on par with the author's usual work and each short story has its own weird twisted ending all of which made me feel slightly uneasy.
The moral of 'Little Red Riding Hood' is 'Young girls are not so easy to fool these days.'" In Sedaris's own fables for his more contemporary time, this new century, he is equally sardonic.
I think compared to Thurber and his own memoir work, Sedaris is harsher and more sardonic here than is typical for him, and most of the tales end badly, violently.
Maybe there's something here about our softening of those tales for contemporary ears that can help[ me understand why so many readers thought Sedaris was too dark here.But the stories in Squirrel are often (though darkly) hilarious, and I think they are on the whole pretty great.
I normally like to listen to Sedaris read his books (so much of the humor is in his tone), but I wandered into a bookstore the day this one was released and couldn't resist it.
I have listened to him enough that I heard this whole book in his voice anyway.
The clerk in the bookstore where I bought it (who clearly was not familiar with Sedaris's work) had put it on a front table because he wasn't sure whether it belonged in the adult or children's section.
It's a brilliant book about not very nice things (and cute fuzzy animals).
Dark, twisted, insightful, prophetic, hilarious, fun ! If you are not upset by 'foul' language, and the dark humor, this book is a belly laugh. Filled with anthropomorphic characters, with quite interesting attitudes. I have it on audio and the narrators could not have nailed they attitudes better. Short stories, a quick read. I am still chuckling.... ; ) I want to read more from this author
love, but because they were mere representations, I resisted the temptation to curse out said loved ones.
Overall, I loved the book.
I didn't always get the exact point, but I "felt" the lessen in there somewhere, and I was entertained from beginning to end.
My only complaint is that it ended too soon.
I could have gone on with this book forever.
Luckily, I have 3 other books of his, so when I'm through with all the other ones that I am currently committed to, it's back to nauseating, but hilarious, Dave Sedaris for me!
I love David Sedaris and this may be his best collection yet.
Sedaris uses animals to bring up taboo subjects and expose the ugly side of humanity.
This made it sound like he'd been snached from the jaws of a raccoon, but what she'd really rescued him from was a life without her love.
And what sort of a life would that have been?" I loved that.
The rat is like a crazy cat lady!http://www.alwayspackedforadventure.comAlso brilliant with this collection are the illustrations by Ian Falconer.
While I appreciate Sedaris's craftsmanship, I found the stories to be excessively gruesome and tongue-in-cheek, castigating a variety of modern fools without providing the "moral of the story" at the end.
No ugly human mindset is left unexposed: from xenophobia to homophobia, infidelity to fanaticism, this is a dark catalogue of our failings as a species.I will admit to three contributing factors to my dislike for this book:1) I loathe thinking about the plucking out of eyes, it's HIGH on my personal Nasty Scale, and Sedaris includes eye-plucking multiple times.2) Narrations of chicken slaughter (which also occur in this book) gross me out completely ever since I read "Man Descending" by Guy Vanderhaeghe, where the first short story opens with a boy trying to decapitate a chicken and failing in a spectacular, nightmare fashion.
Don't get me wrong, there is plenty of tongue-in-cheek humor, very funny turns of phrase and perect-timing endings, but the content is just a little too far over the line of dark humor to be comfortable.Complicating matters, the illustrations are by Ian Falconer, author/illustrator of the "Olivia" series of children's books.
And then there was my own cognitive dissonance as my brain recognized Falconer's illustation style but couldn't bridge the gap between darling piglet Olivia and, let's say, the exposed rectum of a hippoptamus?I recognize that this book is an art form in itself and can appreciate the intelligence that had to be present to make its social commentary, however, for me, it was all just too far out and over the line.
I have always enjoyed David Sedaris' books in the past.
He is witty, and his commentary on people and society is always clever, sometimes hilarious, and very accurate.
In some respects, this book is all that, but I think it misses the mark, and it certainly didn't live up to my expectations.It's a collection of 16 fables that feature animals with human characteristics, attitudes, biases, and frailties.
His commentary on society's values is sometimes eerily accurate, but too frequently I found myself wondering "what was the point"?
I guess it's too much to hope for eloquence and insight in every story in a collection, but I did expect more from Sedaris.
Not my type of book. While some of the stories are fun/poignant, others were a bit more boring.
Squirrel Seeks Chipmunk is his latest endeavor, which veers completely away from his habit of producing semi-personal anecdotes and instead focuses on his keen observational skills.
This interesting little collection of short stories feature talking animals, interacting just like humans who seem beastly in light of such a comparison, but I wasn't really all that delighted with the whole.I had heard of David Sedaris for a little while before I actually read any of his writing.
By writing about animals as speciesist and petty, he was able to highlight some of the worst human traits in an honest and straightforward way and still avoid the automatic reactions we all have.
Jealousy, selfishness, intolerance of all varieties, anti-intellectualism and prejudice against sexually ambiguous chickens -- it's all in here and cleverly illustrated by Ian Falconer, the artist and writer behind the Olivia books.Which is not to say that they aren't entertaining stories as well.
The essay was equal parts well-crafted, insightful, and humorous, making me want to read more from him.2) I had a gift card to Barnes & Noble and this book was bargain priced, meaning I could get it and two others.3) It was hardbound with a nice jacket, and I am a sucker for good-looking books (I was also tempted to buy a really beautifully produced hardbound edition of Walden before I realized just how ironic that situation was, I'll stick with my Dover Thrift version, thanks)I didn't like this book because it was quite strange and often very ugly.
Being an animal lover, and going on the reputation of David Sedaris being a very clever and humorous writer, I eagerly went to Borders to pick up a copy of this book for myself along with another copy for a fellow animal lover's birthday.
So, off to the counter I went with 2 copies of the book.I have to give thumbs up to whoever chose the layout of this book -- the first story was by far the best and the only time I laughed and felt happy throughout the rest of the stories that I read.
I wanted to read it anyway, so seemed like a fair enough deal.This is a new area for Sedaris, and seems to be a good fit for him.
Although this collection is not my favorite thing of Sedaris' I've ever read, it was certainly entertaining.
To be fair, judging this collection against his other essays is a bit of an apples-and-oranges situation.
Of course, I am always a big fan of a book with illustrations and the ones included here are wonderful.
It took me a little while to realize that the illustrator, Ian Falconer, is the same guy who writes the Olivia the Pig children's books.
I'm a big fan of David Sedaris (and his hilarious sister Amy too), but when this came out I was puzzled.
I didn't know what to make of it.
So I dismissed it, thinking aaw, he's run out of ideas, now he's changing course, and he's looking for a quick income fix.Shame on me.This is hilarious.
Classic Sedaris really.
These are what Gary Larson cartoons would be if they were translated into written stories.
Lots of laugh out loud bits, and "hey Martha!" stories as one reviewer called them, because you want to share them with someone nearby.
