https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28170940-lethal-white
I read 25%, so I'm going to refrain from giving it a rating, as it's not fair.
politics.It's a true reflection of Rowling's staunchly center-left politics, as she takes sharp digs at far leftists as well as the conservatives.
For a topic so sensitive and so relevant, Rowling took a clear side and seemed to be taking digs at anyone who is critical of Israel's position.
The characters were still the same characters I grew so attached to, and I would love to read this book another time just to find out what happens with Robin and Cormoran, but...
(A-) 81% | Very GoodNotes: Wherein women cling devoted to manipulative men, and hugs, tea, missives, and accidental kisses stir illicit intrigue.
It starts to resemble the Harry Potter series, with each book longer and longer.
The novel starts with the ending of A Career of Evil, namely the wedding between the Asshole and Robin.
Anyways, after the drama at the wedding the plot moves one year forward when Cormoran’s services are sought by a young, psychotic boy who wants to hire the detective to uncover a hanging he thought he witnessed when he was very young.
However, I hope it will be a bit shorter and more intense.
Jimmy  The revolutionary lefty, who make meetings to prepare marches against the imperialists Olympics that set in London at the time, June 2012..And somehow that lead to a call from a new client...the most important one so far to Strike… A Minister..Chiswell, The Minister for Culture…His case is ; just digging dirt on 2 blackmailers threatening the Minister..one of them, the Minister for Sports’ husband...the other is Jimmy Knight...the mentally troubled kid’s brother.What are they blackmailing him for is not Strike businesses, his client insists on just digging dirt on them..What's more, Billy’s story concluded with the murdered child is buried in Chiswell’s horses farm borders.And half way through, with risky undercover detective work, stressful personal life, and not much dirt to satisfy the client, or even us, the readers…Then a huge turn of events happens, AND a gruesome murder...and we move to ;
I hate it when they change cover designs mid series.
A little too long and overly complicated mystery BUT still well worth the read!  Lethal White picks up shortly after where Career of Evil ends at Robin and Matthew's wedding. Then the plot fast-forwards to a year later when London is preparing to host the Olympics. Strike is now famous and business is flourishing. Robin, on the other hand, is suffering from PTSD and is living in a state of misery. Two cases are at the forefront, while some side cases also get some attention. There is a lot goin
A little too long and overly complicated mystery BUT still well worth the read!
Lethal White picks up shortly after where Career of Evil ends at Robin and Matthew's wedding.
I also found the plot to be drawn out and the pacing, at times, to be rather slow.
However, things do pick up in the second half.I read this series because I love Strike and Robin’s characters, as well as their chemistry.
While there are some flaws, all in all, I was so happy to read this and I CANNOT wait for the next book in the series!
650 PAGES IS TOO MANY PAGES FOR A MYSTERY NOVEL.
(More Barclay in the next book, kthnx)However, I think that JKR is pretty terrible at writing romance (don't @ me) and I very, very, very much do not love the whole Robin/Strike pairing and everything surrounding those parts of the story or anything dealing with Robin and Strike's separate relationships.
(Although I know plenty of other people love them as a pairing so you'll probably enjoy those parts of the story)TL;DR - Great mystery, but I will scream if the next book in this series is this long.
"J. K. Rowling is working on a 4th book in the series."
JK Rowling gives us her trademark intricate, tightly plotted, and complex crime fiction in this, the fourth of her engrossing Cormoran Strike series, set amidst the heady and euphoric background of the surprisingly successful 2012 London Olympics.
In a story set amidst the intrigue and political machinations within the Houses of Westminister, the close knit circles of the privileged classes and far left politics, Strike and Robin find themselves short on leads.
Through the years, I have seen at close hand amidst my circles of family and friends, various permutations of the relationships outlined in Lethal White.
j.k. rowling practically gave me my childhood, so i feel like the least i could do to thank her is by reading and giving all of her books 5 stars.
but in the case of this book, i can say, with good conscience, it deserves all 5 of those stars.i was worried when JKR first began writing for adults, especially under the crime/mystery genre.
one thing i think she does really well, and with this book in particular, is how complex her stories are.
and i think because of that, the book did get to be a little lengthy.
I don't fear being ostracized for my rating.
But most of my friends have given this book higher ratings than me.The denouement was not the balm that could assuage the page upon page of nothingness.
Though this was a thriller or a mystery rather, I felt fear while reading it.
Fear for the time being wasted.
Fear for my sanity...I don't know if I will read the next book in the series.
This is a special one star that I've rated.
The rating means my freedom of choice.
My review means my gravitational enticement towards this series.
I can't even remember the last time I was so impatient for the next book in a series to be released.
After I finished, "Career of Evil," I could hardly wait for this next story. Perhaps my hopes and expectations were too high, as I found this disjointed and lots less than anticipated. I won't be so anxious for the next in this series if there is another. If there isn't, I won't mind that so much either. 2 of 10 stars
This was an okay crime story, but as I was reading “Lethal White” I couldn’t help but be frustrated by the fact that this book was TOO LONG!
600+ pages to tell a crime story is too long when the plot is so dense and the different storylines so intricate.
Interwoven with that we get the story of Robin’s and Strike’s continued partnership which was another thing that quite frustrated me: This book was a case of dumb decision-making based on misunderstandings that could have been solved if only the characters had communicated!
That’s a shame, but at least I finished it and enjoyed my reading experience for the most part.
This should have been a magnificent book, but in the end I am giving it four stars and saying it was very good indeed.
The one star deduction is for the way the book began.
At first it was just so slow - not a lot happened and Robin's endless monologues about whether she loved him or not ( and there are two possible hims there) went on and on.
In fact, as the book ended, it was so good that I forgot my slight displeasure with the opening chapters.
Strike & Robin are back! This is the fourth novel in the "Cormoran Strike" book series. POLITICS & FAMILY DON'T MIX Cormoran Strike has become a famous detective in London, thanks to his success of catching the fearsome "Shacklewell Ripper"; and after re-hiring Robin Ellacott as her main partner, now he has even had to sub-contract other people to be able to cope with all the cases that have come to his office.But despite that apparent bonanza of work, nothing has prepared Cormoran Stri
POLITICS & FAMILY DON'T MIX
UPD: This is how I find out?! From a newsletter on Bookdepository?!! Release date: 18th September 2018. Could I BE any more excited??Yes, I'm stooping that low! I'm using GIFs now because there are no words to express how much I'm waiting for this book, I need more of Robin and Cormoran and their unusual relationship. I'm sure that so many things are going to go down in the next one because I can't stand suspense any longer... aaaah!
I really love the Cormoran Strike series. That is why I am so excited for the next book in the series. Lethal White has been the longest we have to wait so far.To satiate my excitement I have created fan-made covers for both US and UK Editions.US EditionUK Edition
✨Pre-reading shenanigans.✨• An extract has just been released and 🤩🤩🤩🤩🤩!That is all! https://www.theguardian.com/books/201...You’re welcome!• WE FINALLY HAVE A RELEASE DATE!GOOD GOD THIS TOOK YONKS BUT I’M SO HAPPY IT IS BEING PUBLISHED THIS YEAR!
Charlotte of course makes a couple appearances, and I have a feeling she’ll be a problem during the next novel.Themes for Robin:- PTSD from the last book (re: strangling episode)- Altered dynamic with Cormoran: She wears a cloak of professionalism and distance for most of the book, worried about whether she actually has feelings for Cormoran, and whether she’ll get sacked again due to her panic attacks- Matt - She realizes she doesn’t love him, but feels obligated to try and make it work.-->Partly because of the expensive wedding her parents paid for, partly because of the sense of failure, and partly out of pity for MattMatt as always is jealous and petulant, continually judging Robin for her job.
Lethal White is the fourth (4th) book in the “Cormoran Strike” series, written by Robert Galbraith (J.
Strike and his organization start out investigating the attempted blackmailing of the Minister for Culture, Jasper Chiswell (Chiswell) who later was found dead in what was originally thought to be a suicide.
The book centers around Chiswell’s dysfunctional family trying to find out what really happened their patriarch and and Strike trying to find out who was trying to blackmail him and why.
Strike and Robin both are good investigators.
The plot is complex and the book is slow and too long, in my opinion.Also, Strike’s and Robin’s relationship is weird.
I waited for this book to be out with such anticipation!
The wedding part was tense enough and got me absorbed in the book right away.
There was nothing in the development of their storyline that would have kept me excited.
It just wasn't exciting...
So leaving the personal stories aside, let's move to the thriller side of it.
Again, it didn't feel much of a "thriller".
I think overall, the plot felt like the author tried too hard attempting to twist and turn it all, and at times the whole lot got tangled in knots.The writing felt a bit forceful too.
I’m not a big Harry potter fan and though have seen all the films I’ve yet to turn a page of any of the books.
My son is one of them; he’s also the reason I’ve watched the films - and played the spin-off video games too.
But all of that aside, I admire Rowling most for having the versatility, the imagination and the wit to write crime fiction of this standard.
So begins this complex but highly engaging story.At first Strike seemed to me to be an unlikely front man - partially disabled and ex-army his demeanour seemingly set semi-permanently to gruff – but I quickly warmed to him.
The mysteries, involving blackmail and a possibly strangled child, are not very compelling until the last quarter of the book.
There's an info dump in the last two chapters that sums everything up.
However, my major problem is that the book is mostly filler, not mystery.
That might be ok if I were really invested in the Strike/Robin relationship (or non-relationship), but I'm not.
Strike is such a cad that's it amazing he keeps attracting women.
I also no longer want to hear about the pain in Strike's stump.
The Ibsen quotes that start each chapter are meaningless.
I have been very stingy with 5 star rating recently.
But this book absolutely deserves to be rated 5 stars.
I love this series and it just keeps getting better and better.
You don’t have to have read any of the other books in the series to enjoy this book, although I would highly recommend it.
This will be in the running as one of the best books I have read this year, and I have read over 100 books already.
This book gets my highest recommendation.
This is the best one in this series so far.
3.5 starsThis book gets 5 stars for the personal/professional relationship updates between Robin and Cormoran, but only gets 2 stars for the 'murder mystery' presented in this book.
I *loved* seeing all the extra page time that Robin and Cormoran finally get in regards to their individual personal lives (warning: the slow burn still burns slowly).
Come on BBC, send it across the pond please!Spoiler prediction for the next book:(view spoiler)[ I think that the next book will in part, if not fully, revolve around some kind of mystery involving Matthew or any of Robin/Matthew's friends/family/acquaintances.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Bloated: "Lethal White" by Robert GalbraithI couldn't finish Harry Potter. It read to me like an amateur college project: it wasn't story telling, it was paint-by-number narration. It goes to show that if you tap into the right market at the right time then you're going to make a buck or two regardless of any skill or talent. With Harry Potter the first book was tightly edited, but they got progressively worse; the last ones were subject to fame and the publishers let the pace drop massively.
ASo here goes, the day that the book was released I waited and waited for my email from my local Chapters to tell me my book was ready to pick up.
Four brand new copies of Lethal White!
I’ve been in the worst depression of my life and I’ve picked up at least two dozen books and none of them have made me want to read.
Start the series if you haven’t because I highly recommend it and if you don’t, don’t read Lethal White cause it’s the fourth book.
I will say I look forward to continuing read about Robin’s progress as a character.
It's reached a point that I just am invested in these characters and if you ask me to follow them around watching people, drinking beer, and making the same mistakes over and over gain for 600, I'm going to say, "okay!" That said-- this is overly long, the mystery is so convoluted which will be polarizing though if you've made it to book 4 you already know, and there were so many repeated beats, not only in the mystery but in the exploration of Robin and Cormoran's relationship.
Again, these are characters I love.
I loved additions like Barclay.
please hurry and release the 4th book, I can't wait to see how Cormoron and Robin's relationship change, if at all haha, love these books!!
