https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15719.Marvel_1602
Bumping it up to 5 stars!I read this back in 2009, and liked it quite a bit.
So, basically, this is our Marvel characters in 1602.
I can call it a retelling, right?It was varied enough to feel fresh, but there were enough familiar elements to the cast that I got to do that geeky little smile/nod thing quite a bit.This is one that I wouldn't mind looking at again, and I'm definitely looking forward to getting my hands on the spin-offs from this and reading about more of this pocket universe.
Dear Mr. Gaiman and Nameless Marvel Suits: I’d like to start this mostly favorable review by first dropkicking in the baby maker the marketing wizard who approved the decision NOT to include Wolverine in the story-line.  Remember him…the surly, long-lived, fast-healing anti-hero who’s been your most popular character since “Hey bubbing” the Hulk for the Canadian government back in the 1980’s**. Yes, that guy. Not only was his absence noticed, but his persona would have been PERFECT for the tale.
Dear Mr. Gaiman and Nameless Marvel Suits: I’d like to start this mostly favorable review by first dropkicking in the baby maker the marketing wizard who approved the decision NOT to include Wolverine in the story-line.
PLOT SUMMARY:It’s the final months of Queen Elizabeth’s reign in EnglandThe year is…duh….Neil Gaiman uses this famous historical period as the canvas to create an alternative history that includes most of Marvel’s major players (*ahem* except Wolverine *ahem*) and a number of well placed minor ones.
Politically, Gaiman does an excellent job of marrying history with the changes required to make the narrative work and I really like the way he transported the basic persona of the characters into their 1602 counterpart.
T'was the year of our Lord 1602  when the universe was facing an untimely demise in the hands of paradoxical laws, and unless the odd bard who goes by the name Neil Gaiman perform a grand tale with the help of the Marvels, all will face the doom. Not Victor Von Doom, but actually doom.  In Marvel 1602, the classic Marvel heroes and villains are re-imagined as 17th-century characters, rearranged appropriately to take upon new roles, and relocated to the heart of Victorian-era Europe. Of course,
The X-Men are lot fun too, but Magneto once again kills it with his pure awesomeness!Neil Gaiman's writing here is really complex, and early on he creates a lot of misdirection and confusion regarding the direction of the story.
This turned the middle chapters into a tiresome act, as there were way too many things happening without any sense of direction.Nevertheless, Marvel 1602 is a unique story that dares to shoot for the moon.
Even though the Marvel characters in these pages were known to us, Gaiman essentially created a brand new universe, reintroduced over two dozen major characters, and juggled multiple complex plots, all within limited pages.
Imagination flourishes at Elizabethan Era of Marvel Universe! This TPB collects “Marvel 1602” #1-8.Creative Team:Writer: Neil GaimanIllustrator: Andy KubertDigital Coloring: Richard IsanoveCovers: Scott McKowenLettering: Todd Klein (best letterer in the business!) A NEW UNIVERSE BORN IN THE PAST Nowadays the universe of Marvel 1602 is managed as a parallel dimension in the Marvel Comics Universe, BUT……a key factor when the story was originally published is that it was considered the Earth-616,
Nowadays the universe of Marvel 1602 is managed as a parallel dimension in the Marvel Comics Universe, BUT……a key factor when the story was originally published is that it was considered the Earth-616, that for non-Marvel fans, it’s the official classification of the primary Earth in the multiverse of Marvel, but……if so, how is that so many known Marvel characters are born “again” but in that past?Ah, my fellow readers!That’s the mystery to read in this book!Why characters that they were supposed to begin to exist until the 1960’s New York City of Marvel Comics are rising in the distant past of 1602´s Elizabethan England?And as if that wasn’t enough, the sky is red (that in Marvel Universe NEVER is good sign) and the end of the world seems nigh, but if this “new” universe is truly Earth 616……what would happen to the “present” if this seemingly impossible past would be no more?Certain events, in certain realities, are so powerful, so meaningful, so crutial, so fateful, that when something meses with that kind of events……curious things happens!And nature finds ways to defend itself.
This was fairly underwhelming overall, but DAT TWIST THO

F.A.N.T.A.S.T.I.C.KQuintessential  Gaiman where we have a story within a story. Full 5 stars for the sheer ingenuity of taking the Marvel characters to circa 1602 where the mutants are known as witchbreed. There's enough intrigue, mystery, treason and action going on to keep you guessin' what the hell is goin' on?" So basically The artwork!! ❤ ❤ ❤
I'm a sucker for anything renaissance, so this was SO much fun for me. I loved the idea of integrating and re-inventing the Marvel characters in Elizabethan Europe. The parallels were really clever between the mutants and the Inquisition etc. Despite some confusing panel art, I read this whole graphic novel in one sitting, and definitely want more in this universe!I <3 you Neil Gaiman :)
of course, the heroes and villains in question are a gallery of classic Marvel characters, including Spider-Man, Doctor Strange, the Incredible Hulk, Captain America, Doctor Doom, and Nick Fury.Neil Gaiman is known for his striking reinventions of classic and even mythic characters; in Marvel 1602 he turns his eye to the Marvel canon, with mixed results.
and there is a real kick in seeing characters like Nick Fury and Doctor Strange reconfigured as, respectively, Queen Elizabeth's Spymaster and Royal Physician.the only issue i have - and it is a major one - is that by using Marvel characters, Gaiman is using characters with their own internal logic.
While these themes are old hat for Marvel, Gaiman does a good job writing this otherworld story called 1602.
While DC has its share of time travel and apocalypse-themed stories, it seems like too many Marvel comics are about this.
But Gaiman, in the context of very early 17th century England under the ruling Queen Elizabeth I, writes fascinating versions of these characters that I was excited to read about.
For only being 248 pages it took me some time to read, because Gaiman writes wordy and maximum exposition here.
I liked the story and characters.
Nevertheless, kad god mi se ukaže prilika, neću propustiti da mu dam šansu, budući da je u pitanju jedan od onih old-school pripovedača koji čvrsto veruje u moć i važnost priče i pričanja, kao i njenog uticaja na oblikovanje sveta oko nas.Elizabetinska Engleska je jedan od omiljenih Gaimanovih istorijskih perioda, što je i pokazao u priči "San letnje noći", za koju je dobio grdilo prestižnih nagrada za fantastiku (v.
Εκεί που η ιστορία, το fantasy και η Marvel συναντιούνται με το Neal Gaiman! Εξαιρετικό σε κάθε περίπτωση!!!
I must, for the sake of spoilers, keep my description of the story brief.In essence, it is a Marvel tale told in the setting of 1602.
That is what is so enjoyable about this story- it's indeed unique and original (kudos Mr. Gaiman) there is so much that is similar.Apparently 15 years prior a rift in space deposited a traveler to that universe.
Wonderful characters, unique settings, detailed historical research of customs and colloquialisms and a truly fresh take on the oft done "time travel/universe-is ending" marvel tale.
Before her passing, the Queen instructs Sir Nicolas Fury to arrange for the safe passage of an unknown item making its way to England under the protection of the Knights Templar.
Why weren’t the Knights Templar protection enough?
He tries his best to give you an answer.Unfortunately, I didn’t quite care for this.The whole story felt overly gimmicky rather than creative and original.
While he had a pretty strong presence in the story, he came across as annoying.I’ll give Gaiman some points for taking a unique approach to the Marvel universe but I just couldn’t get behind this.
I feel like I will need way more time to truly digest this story. In typical Gaiman fashion, he crafted something far more epic than what is at first revealed.The heroes here are not exact mimics of their universe-616 counterparts; they have subtle changes in personality if not powers. I especially liked Daredevil and Nick Fury's portrayals. Also, the much talked about twist was as satisfying and unexpected as I hoped it would be. It's been a while since I've gotten lost in a good graphic novel, and 1602 has rekindled my passion for the medium.
Gaiman's take on Marvel super heroes focuses on Britain in 1602 as a friendly Queen Elizabeth is likely to die soon and news comes of something worse than eradicating super heroes . . . the end of the world.Some really interesting idea combos. It helps if you know the Marvel world already to get some of the references.OVERALL GRADE: B plus.
Read on the WondrousBooks blog. Never heard of it? Have no idea what it is? No problem. You are missing just one of the most fantastic things in pop culture. Now let me explain:Imagine if all of the coolest Marvel heroes were born in Elizabethan England, Nick Fury was the queen's chief guardian, Doctor Strange was her personal physician, the Maximoff twins were working for the Inquisition, Professor X was gathering the prosecuted mutants, who everyone thinks are witchbreed.And all of that writt
Now let me explain:Imagine if all of the coolest Marvel heroes were born in Elizabethan England, Nick Fury was the queen's chief guardian, Doctor Strange was her personal physician, the Maximoff twins were working for the Inquisition, Professor X was gathering the prosecuted mutants, who everyone thinks are witchbreed.And all of that written by Neil Gaiman.Did you imagine it?It is fantastic, right?When I read Gaiman I sometimes experience a little bit of disappointment, but since this is the first graphic novel of his that I read, I think that this is also his forte and I really want to find Sandman now.It was absolutely amazing to follow the characters, see how their identities are revealed, most of all Captain America.
I could say a lot here, but I won't. Why I loved it: Neil Gaiman, really inventive premise, beautiful artwork, and a lot of fun matching up the Elizabethan superheroes to their modern day counterparts. This is what a good comic book should be--draws you in and won't leave you alone until you've finished it, all the while reading with a ridiculously big, childlike smile on your face. Loved it.
Kıyamet gününün yaklaştığı söylentileri artık ayyuka çıkarken Kraliçe, doktoru Sir Stephen Strange'i ve istihbarattan sorumlu komutanı Sir Nicholas Fury'yi bu olayları araştırmaları için görevlendirir.Fantastik edebiyatın iyi bilinen yazarı Neil Gaiman, ta 2003'te yayımlanan bu çizgi romanı, Marvel'in özel siparişi üzerine yazmış.
1602 tam bir karakter salatası.
Marvel dünyasından tanıdığımız hemen her karakter bir şekilde hikayeye iliştirilmiş.
Ama belki de böyle bir fikir ancak bu şekilde hayata geçebilirdi ve bu kadarını da ancak Neil Gaiman yapabilirdi.
Yine de kendine has durumu ile Marvel ve/veya çizgi roman severler için koleksiyona katılması gerekli bir eser.
“We are a boatful of monsters and miracles, hoping that, somehow, we can survive a world in which all hands are against us.
For in the end, alas, you are so much more interesting and satisfying as you are.”As you know, if you read my review of Norse Mythology (https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...), I consider Neil Gaiman a master storyteller.
Gaiman entertains us with his weaving of the elements of that era’s history juxtaposed against the Marvel characters that we have come to know so well.The illustrations are up to the task, particularly in reflecting those early 17th Century venues.
And yet I believe that graphic novels are one of the more creative methods of generating stories for modern audiences myself.
As such I am an avid fan of many of DC and Marvel's more brilliant story line arcs.
Having, with my typical flair, discussed my particularly good reasons for reading graphic novels, I shall now briefly review in particular Marvel 1602.
Millions of readers, film viewers and pop culture observers know of and many love the famous characters of Marvel.
I tip my hat to the beautifully rendered story that is Marvel 1602.
A temporal anomaly causes many Marvel mutants to be born hundreds of years earlier (so they are actually inhabitants of the Elizabethan era, not time-travellers). They must save the world (natch) despite the Inquisition, political intrigues, and supervillains. The suppositions "Church = bad, Queen Elizabeth = good and enlightened" kind of annoyed me with their lame ahistoricism (suuuure Eliz I was against torture)but overall the setting was well done and interesting.
y en medio de todo esto, una serie de personas con poderes extraños pululan a sus anchas por el mundo que, por cierto, está a punto de acabar, arrastrando consigo a todo el universo.
Esos seres son los héroes y villanos de Marvel que conocemos de toda la vida, pero en esta historia escrita por Neil Gaiman, se ubican cuatrocientos años atrás en el tiempo, adaptados a los roles y problemas de aquella época.
La forma de plasmar las ideas queda muy realista en algunos puntos (todo lo realista que el Universo Marvel puede ser, entiéndase).

In recent years, I haven’t followed so many comics, with all of these reboots, alternative histories and cycles.
The major Marvel characters such as Nick Fury, the X-Man and Spiderman, are inserted in this context, creating a thrilling story which fuses history, magic and even a little of science fiction.
I don’t say much about the plot, for avoid making spoiler, but in the course of the story will make their appearance, after some real twists, many unforgettable characters.I recommend it to all fans of Gaiman and comics in general.
Gosh was Marvel 1602 dull! I had to force myself to finish it. I didn't much like the artwork and the story was really confusing. So much is happening but it's boring nonetheless.. how is this possible?! The only fun thing was to guess which guy/gal is which hero/ine. But yeah I kind of wasted my time with this.
Odlican strip. Predivni crtezi, interesantna prica koja je na momente konfuzna pa cu morati da procitam ponovo i odlican prenos Marvel likova u vreme Elizabete prve.Svaka preporuka ako volite stripove.
Leather jackets, for example, also laser beams.
Are laser beams cool if no one witnesses their awesome powers of destruction?
But he’s not a lesser writer, he is in fact a very awesome writer, and by inserting these characters, so long stuck in one place and time or role, into a completely new universe, as a group just learning of their powers and how to interact with the world, Gaiman resurrects a bit of the fun I’m sure readers had in the 60s reading and watching as Lee, Ditko, and Kirby brought these icons to life the first time around.
The 1600’s were no time for anyone to be a superhero in England.
Now for a moment let us assume that we transplant our Marvel heroes to this time and place, what events would transpire ?
What struck me as most attractive were the origin stories that Gaiman created for the characters.
Even while playing within such restrictions, the story does offer some surprises in terms of character development and growth (My favorites were the transformation of Peter Parquah and Bruce Banner towards the end).The prose flows with a steadiness that is characteristic of Gaiman and it is more in the lines of a fairy-tale set in an alternate London.
Pewnie nie drażniłby mnie, gdyby nie wysyp filmów i seriali i związana z nimi homogenizacja fandomów.
Lepsza połowa miała własny egzemplarz ale właśnie postanowiła komuś oddać więc czytam, zanim oddamy, bo kompletyzm.] Nie jestem też zupełną Marvelową ignorantką, choć wielu smaków z pewnością nie wychwyciłam.
Ale chyba nie trzeba znać całego multiversum by móc powiedzieć......No nie.
Wiem, że wiele z tego, to elementy kanonicznych komiksów, ale te nawiązania tylko drażniły.
A to, co nawiązaniem nie było, tylko pogarszało sprawę.Możliwe, że wiele zależy od indywidualnego gustu, ale dla mnie końcowy twist nie zdaje egzaminu i boli i pozostawia ogólny niesmak.
