https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/481743.The_Wave
'Laurie Sanders (seriously WASPY name there) sat in the publications office at Gordon High School (seriously WASPY school there) chewing on the end of a Bic (isn’t this a trademark or a registered item or something??) pen.''She was a pretty girl (thanks, we needed that knowledge) with short light-brown hair and an almost perpetual (BIG word ) smile that only disappeared when she was upset or chewing on Bic pens.' (-------) Here is the 1981 Made- for –TV- movie version of Laurie 'Lately she’d been chewing on a lot of pens.' (!!!!!!!!)'In fact, there wasn’t a single pen or pencil in her pocketbook (I always hated pocketbooks) that wasn’t worn down on the butt end from nervous gnawing' (ALLITERATION!!) 'Still, it beat smoking.' (what a minute, what?
Honestly.It's not a horror story, it's not the kind of novel where monsters come jumping out the closet; or at least not the green googley-eyed kind.
This is a true story which I was told not to read because the subject matter was too old for me.When I first read The Wave, I had no comprehension of why it was scary.
Bad things happened, but it was more or less ok in the end.
There is nothing superficially frightening about the events of this novel, but the sub-text of the story is.
It doesn't justify, rationalize, or apologize for these actions, but it does show how naturally horrific events can come about.

This book, written under the pen name of Morton Rhue in the United States, is a novelisation of the telemovie of the same name, which was based on a short story by Ron Jones about a real event.In 1969 a high school history teacher, Ben Ross, was working in a small "all-American" town teaching his class of grade 12 students about the second World War. After showing them a film on Adolf Hitler, the Nazis and concentration camps, his students couldn't understand why the German people hadn't realised what was happening and done something to stop it.
Το είχα διαβάσει οταν ειχε πρώτοβγεί. Πριν γίνει μόδα , ταινία , θεατρικό . Πριν ο φασισμός ξανανοίξει τα απειλητικά φτερά του . Τότε που καμια κρίση δεν μας γονάτιζε και που ευημερούσαμε. Με ξένα κόλυβα . Μετα μας πήρε το Κύμα
A compelling story about how Nazi Germany could have been created--how the minority controlled the majority, and how the majority allowed themselves to be controlled.
It's based on the true story of The Third Wave experiment, which demonstrated fascism as a part of teaching about WWII.
But the writing of this book.
Oh, the writing.
It should be noted that in tiny print on the copyright page, it does note that this is a novelization of a teleplay that was an adaptation of the original teacher's essay about the experiment.
And I can also make some allowances for it being 1981 when he wrote it.
Kitaplıkta görünce buraya da taşımak istedim. Benim için kült kitaplardandır. Filmi de bir o kadar güzeldir. Gücü arayan insanlığın sembollerinden kanlı gözyaşları akmaya devam ediyor.... Yönetilmeye ihtiyacı olduğuna öyle ikna edilmiş ki alkışlar doğasından geliyor artık!!! Acının etrafına toplanan insanlar olmaktan utanıyorum....
I read this book as an assigned book report and wasnt quite sure if I would like it or not.
However, when I actually read the book, I realized it wasnt about the waves in the ocean at all.
When you finish reading the book, you have that feeling like "wow.
After reading this book I realized that this stuff DID happen, and it could easily happen again if we're not careful.
It is not good to follow someone blindly.
The Wave really makes you think.
It makes you question yourself.
Have you been making good choices?
Do you have good judgement?
After being shown a documentary showing the atrocities the Nazis committed the students questioned how it was possible for 90% of the German people to allow this to happen.Ben Ross decided to do an experiment to show the students how easily it could happen.
Ben Ross realized that the experiment had gone too far when the group attacked those who resisted.
The strong points of the book are that it shows how people are easily led by their peers and need to understand as Ben tells them at the end.
3.5 starsIt was a very frightening read, my stomach was in knots and I felt sick from the idea alone.I know that it is BASED on true events, but I find it hard to believe that it happened so fast!5 days? Really? Is that what it takes to create a monster?The writing is OK, but I expected more from it.BUT, a very important read, and I'm glad it is a must read in many schools around the globe.History can repeat it self if we are not careful.
Such a fascinating story and concept. It is scary if you think about it, but so well done.
The Wave is based on a actual incident that happened in Palo Alto California in 1969. What started as a lesson in a history class disrupted the entire school, showing how group pressure can influence peoples behavior and thinking even causing great harm to others. This book should be read by everyone at least once.
Pretty soon Ross realizes that what started as an attempt to teach the teens about Nazi Germany has spun out of his control & has the potential to turn even more powerful...
and has the potential to cause irreparable harm to everyone it touches.Seriously, this book gave me the chills when I read it because it was based on a real life experiment called "The Third Wave" that took place in the 60s.
Reading the book, I couldn't help but wonder what I would've done if I were present during that time.Again, I will warn potential readers that the writing isn't the greatest.
Este planifico una serie de clases en las que presento los elementos para este tipo de metodologia politica: espiritu de grupo, sentimiento de comunidad, ideales comunes, disciplina y ayuda mutua.
( les parece conocido?).Las criticas de varios alumnos y profesores al experimento trae una situacion mucho mas alla de lo que nadie se habia imaginado.Este corto libro nos muestras tres cosas:1.
Muestra que las ideologias mal manejadas pueden llevar a situaciones incontrolables.2.
Potencialmente todos tenemos una constitucion que nos impulsa a entrar en un grupo y frente a esto, la negacion es un vano intento defensivo.
Although the topic and the fact that this book is based on a real story are very interesting, it was rather poorly executed.The major problem for me were the characters.They had absolutely no depth to them and I was left with many questions.Why does the teacher decide to keep the experiment going in the first place?
How come everyone suddenly cares about Robert?
The teacher (Ben Ross) soon comes up with an experiment called The Wave to show the students how it was to live in Nazi Germany.
They band together to stop The Wave before history repeats itself.What We ThinkReviewed by The North StarThe Wave by Todd Strasser is a book that gave me some new perspective on World War II and opened my eyes to how clever Hitler was when recruiting the Germans into creating a superior race, and how scared the people were who followed him.This book is only 138 pages and is a pretty easy read but very effective.
But when saluting turns to violence someone needs to stand up and bring an end to the Wave, will they manage it?
and what will they learn in the process?An incredibly interesting read, I have been reading a lot of WW1 and WW2 based novels this year and this one was unlike any of the others I have picked up.
I would highly recommend to all ages, especially if you are learning about WW2 - I think this one could bring up some brilliant discussions in class, I wish I had read it whilst at school!
But about 75% of the book was really preachy exposition and patronizing BS that was supposed to be the history teacher's thought processes and a bunch of "ZOMG HOW DID THIS HAPPEN AND WHAT DO I DO?!" My biggest "you've got to be kidding me" moment came when the indoctrinated students freak out on this one kid for being jewish.
I mean, yes, Hitler had a thing about Jewish people in general, but if the point of your book is about how no one is immune to othering people, why not pick a kid who wants nothing to do with your little experiment?
The version I have has the author's real name, Todd Strasser.
In a sentence, the book explores the ease with which groups fall into extreme and destructive social dynamics and mindsets.
The creative liberties taken with the real story are immaterial; the underlying psychological principles at play are the meat of the book.
Strasser never goes into detail (it would probably be too dull for middle schoolers), but situational v.
These are important concepts for middle schoolers to experience, if only vicariously and qualitatively.The book is brief and decently-written.
Strasser focuses on what is important, but occasionally lapses into B-movie action villain prose.
Not only what horribly things are possible, but that you must stand up for yourself and who you are and what you believe in, even if that means being an outsider.
Honestly, that one person could do so much harm and had to get the idea from somewhere, so what not possible again?
Why is this idea insane, if the others were too?
Isn’t there always someone we naturally trust more, even if that person is wrong?
.....When the class is learning about the KZ times, all student say it isn’t possible to create something like Hitler did again.
Like David Collins, I wish there really was a way to make kids (from the 10-year-olds who act like 16-year-olds to the 16-year-olds who act like 20-year-olds) pay attention in class, do their homework, and behave as nicely as the clean-cut students in this story.
(Middle school was frightening enough without a gang of psuedo-Nazis taking over!) Even though it's a short, simple book, I think readers of all ages can enjoy its story and appreciate the lesson it teaches.
Read this for a class assignment and I have to say that I really enjoyed this book. Don't really know how to explain it in just a couple of sentences but I suggest that everyone should read this book.
'The Wave' by Todd Strasser is based on a true story of a high school in California. It expresses how humans can be so easily influenced by their surroundings, and how that could lead to terrible consequences. I would recommended this book to anyone interested in social behavior and psychology.
Había sido contagioso y, hasta cierto punto, fascinante."Creo que esa parte es la que más asusta, ver cómo cada uno encuentra en este grupo algo con lo que identificarse, aferrarse, hacer propio, cómo el fenómeno crece a pasos agigantados en muy muy poco tiempo.
Como el fenómeno deja de ser un experimento para el profesor y los alumnos y empieza a trasformarse en algo fuerte, que respira por sí solo, que manda sobre nuestras vidas, que decide nuestro accionar, que nos dice qué está bien y qué está mal.
Mir ist er sehr stark im Gedächtnis haften geblieben, denn er war einer der wenigen "lehrreichen" Filme, die in der Schule gezeigt wurden und mich auch tatsächlich gefesselt haben.Von der Grundidee her ist das Werk grandios, denn es beschäftigt sich mit der immer interessanten Frage, wie ein faschistisches (intolerantes) System quasi aus dem Nichts entstehen kann.
Es ist nicht durch den Führer sondern durch die vielen Mitläufer determiniert, die ohne nachzudenken jede Ideologie übernehmen und auch sehr schnell moralisch fragwürdige Handlungen ausführen, wenn sie durch das System gedeckt sind.
Todd Strasser was born in 1950 in America who wrote more than 140 young-adult novels and many short stories and works of non-fiction, some under the pen name Morthon Rhue and T.S. Rue.In the Wave, we can regard the way that a simple class test can finish in such a dramatically way.
The Wave system looks like if it were so good because you just don’t have to think about being popular or getting the best grades.
The Wave made all of the students equal so there was no popularity, no good grades and everything seems alright.
Perhaps not a book to use in the primary school classroom, but a story that serves as a cautionary tale to teachers and teaching.
Other pupils in the school quickly want to join 'The Wave' for its sense of belonging and believe that some kind of new utopian society is being created.
However what started as an experiment soon becomes a terrifying reality and it's not long before those who don't want to join or who openly express a dislike for 'The Wave' are being threatened, victimized and even assaulted.The story is based on a real event that happed in a school in California in 1969 and shows how the position of responsibility a teacher has over pupils can be abused by a well meaning and experienced teacher obsessed with getting the best out of his pupils.
Allerdings hatte ich vergessen, dass die Zielgruppe eher Jugendliche sind, die sich mit Hilfe dieses Buches mit dem Thema Faschismus auseinandersetzen sollen.
Somit war ich von dem Buch eher enttäuscht.Die Sprache ist sehr einfach, die Sätze sehr kurz gehalten.
Man sollte sich als Erwachsener von vornherein darüber im Klaren sein, dass der Inhalt komplex und interessant ist, jedoch die Vermittlung für Jugendliche angepasst wurde.Fazit: dennoch keine Zeitverschwendung; allein schon wegen des Themas lesenswert; wird interessant, sobald man das Buch nicht nur liest und es dann wieder zur Seite legt, sondern über die Geschehnisse ernsthaft nachdenkt
3,5/5El libro se basa en un experimento verídico llamado “La Tercera Ola” que tuvo lugar en la década de los sesenta en un instituto de California.
La historia es muy interesante, su ritmo es ágil y está narrada de una forma que engancha pero me ha dado la sensación que el autor pasa por encima de los hechos sin llegar profundizar demasiado en los personajes, ni entrar en demasiados detalles y tampoco se comenta nada de las consecuencias que tuvo dicho experimento una vez finalizado.
La película, ambientada en un instituto alemán, también es muy recomendable, recuerdo que me impactó mucho más que el libro ya que el final es bastante diferente.

