https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7024640-the-seventh-man
I like the first two books in this series better ("The Untamed" and "The Night Horseman"), mostly because the ending of this was not what I had hoped for, most of the story was one long chase scene, and (view spoiler)[ an important person in his life gave up on him because he wouldn't change to be who he wasn't. (hide spoiler)] Still a very fine story about a man who was truly connected with nature rather than people. I listened to this as a free download fro LibriVox.org (by an excellent reader
I like the first two books in this series better ("The Untamed" and "The Night Horseman"), mostly because the ending of this was not what I had hoped for, most of the story was one long chase scene, and (view spoiler)[ an important person in his life gave up on him because he wouldn't change to be who he wasn't.  (hide spoiler)] Still a very fine story about a man who was truly connected with nature rather than people. I listened to this as a free download fro LibriVox.org (by an excellent reader). First published in 1919.
Very good readThe author captures the wild days of the West where the instinct of men becomes savage as the wild animals. Well written Mr Brand s description of the area makes the book come alive.
Great Book.
Very interesting Western without the usual stark contrast between the good guys and the bad guys. Max Brand uses typical western story themes and situations to pull the reader in and then twists things around to write a treatise on relationship psychology, true love, and real courage. I think this one might be interesting even to those who don't like Westerns. I read it as a free Gutenberg Project EBook on my ipad.
Okay - I love this book. Yes it's a simple western, but I love the way the characters are developed. They are bigger than life. The story is unique. This is a book I have never forgotten since I first read it. I look for copies in every used book store I wander into. Book 3 in a series, but can stand alone. In fact I read this one first, then went back and found the other 2 - Untamed and The Night Horseman.
One of Brands best.I beg to differ with those who say his books aren't literature. His writing is so poetic in nature that you feel an easy flow of the story as he transitions from person to person and scene to scene. If Dan were living in this day and age he would be considered a social deviant and probably schizophrenic,so the character is not so unbelievable to me
Yes, I know Max Brand doesn't write with the political correctness of our day but I still enjoy his stories.This book was written almost 100 years ago and I thought the story was well told. It certainly kept me reading. I wanted to turn the page and find out what was going to happen next.That's the work of a good storyteller.
read some time in 1989
The BEST Western I have read in a long time! In the top 5 or best for sure.
Available on Librivox & Gutenberg.Something is surreal in our relationship with our dogs and horses. The ending broke my heart.
An amazing action adventure western with the bad guys as the sympathetic main characters. I can't praise it highly enough. Will be seeking out more Max Brand books.
I truly enjoyed the story and the characters! I was surprised at the ending! I do recommend reading!
ExcellentWell written with lot's of excitement and a great story line. This book has great characters and an exciting finish.
Read the Untamed and the Night Horseman then The Seventh man. I don't remember which should be read first. They stand alone but would be better in order. A good read.
Excellent trilogy of Whistlin' Dan Barry. But there is a fourth book: Dan Barry's Daughter. Don't forget to read this book!
Listen to it for free on Librivox, it's really well read
A good ending to the trilogy of Dan Barry.I liked this one better than "The Night Horseman", but not as good as "Untamed".Really glad I found out about Max Brand.
Not really my genre, but thought I'd give it a try. Never read a western before, and probably won't again.
ExcellentBest western story That I have read for a long time. Highly recommend it to anyone who loves western story.
