https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/251762.Bee_Season
The Purpose of FamilyAt least since the novels of William Makepeace Thackeray, the family has been portrayed as the corrupter of those who are its hapless constituents: spouses fight for superiority or escape; ambitious fathers and mothers impose their ambition and snobbery on children who might have turned out better in other circumstances; siblings prosecute relentless rivalries; everyone is driven by the imperatives of family membership.
Its four characters - Mother, Father, Son, and Younger Daughter - come into the family, not so much psychically damaged as incomplete and certainly neurotic.
Families mitigate the neuroses of individual members.Father, for example, is a theological scholar who feels himself a failure for never having experienced the spiritual transcendence he seeks.
I would lay on the couch and read and dole out snacks, counting the minutes until my aunt and uncle came home, while my sister picked up the kids and played and changed their diapers and talked so easily in those baby voices that I refused (and still do refuse) to use.
Bee Season is an entire book about what happens when two people who shouldn't have kids go ahead and have kids.
people.Goldberg's depiction of the brother/sister relationship between the Naumann kids, Eliza and Aaron, is perfect.
But I can't say I loved reading it, because the Naumanns are so much like a real, recognizable family that it's uncomfortable.
I picked it up off my roommate's shelf thinking, "Oh, this looks like a sweet little book about spelling bees." I don't even know where to begin in describing how wrong I was.
That was one thing that made the book so stunning: it completely circumvented my expectations.
I think you could have conversations for hours about the characters in this book--their brief perceived brushes with perfection/God, their sense of loss as it slips away, their longing to experience it again, and the isolation that results from their individual obsessions with recapturing that moment of wholeness .
So much is made in other reviews of this book of the family that seeks perfection only to fall further and further from it, but I think the story isn't so much about perfection as it is about just plain seeking.
It didn't end like "American Beauty," but I think the ending is just as it should be.
I didn't see the Naumann family as at all eccentric.
What difference does it make if a compulsion brings you into strangers' homes to collect an item that is calling to you, or wash your hands a million times a day, or simply buy just one more book when you already have so many at home that you will never in one lifetime read them.
This book is totally about my family and my childhood, except it was written by Myla Goldberg.
(And I must admit it's more exciting and disturbing than my family or my childhood...for one, my only brush with Hare Krishna was at the Crazy Wisdom Tearoom in Ann Arbor, where they played a soundtrack that chanted "Hare, Hare, Hare Krishna" all day long.
Goldberg captures beautifully the suffocating love and expectations (administered in special cases through skill-and-drill) that parents inflict on their children, as well as the cruelty kids inflict as they seek to aggressively distinguish themselves from their parents.
As the book progressed, however, I felt the characters were retreating from me and turning into symbols/crazy people.
Μπερδεμένο και βαρετό. Δυστυχώς αυτό το βιβλίο είναι φλατ, δεν έχει καμία σπιρτάδα. Επίσης πηγαίνει από το παρελθόν στο παρόν χωρίς σειρά, άλλες φορές ανά δυο παραγράφους άλλες φορές ανά μια (δεν έχει κεφάλαια), και με μπέρδευε τελείως. Επίσης χανόμουν μέσα στους εβραϊκούς όρους που δυστυχώς πουθενά το βιβλίο δεν τους εξηγούσε. Μην μιλήσω για το perfectimundo της Μιριαμ… (ποτέ δεν κατάλαβα τι εννοεί ο ποιητής)… Το βιβλίο αυτό ήμουν σίγουρη ότι θα μου αρέσει, τελικά απλώς το άφησα!
A man who doesn't have the slightest idea what is going on with his wife and is so caught up in his own persuits that he fails to recongnize that his wife is mentally ill and that his son has switched religions.Aaron--a boy who has been seeking experiences with god since he saw a flashing red light from a plane reflected in the clouds, a boy who wants to grow up like his father but is usually ignored by him except for the study sessions he has with him which disappear when Eliza wins the spelling bee.
I really was excited about this novel because I'm a sucker for any young-girl-coming-of-age novel, but this one left me flat at the end.
I couldn't stop reading, but the entire time I read I had this "yuck" feeling.
The Jewish mysticism (which by the way was a bizarre new way of looking at the Jewish religion (especially after reading so much Chaim Potok) and again left a bad feeling in my stomach) is out-right frightening, though the author does a rip-snortin' good job describing it.
And the ending left everything wide open.
Only closure for Eliza (the main character) and everyone else's situation is swinging in the wind.All in all, yuck.
I loved the writing, the storylines, the utter dysfunctionality of the characters.
It ends at exactly the right place.[return][return]I'm impressed with how many threads she managed to weave together.
I didn't find the timeline at all confusing, despite everything being present tense; the events of each section were easy enough to place in the past or present.
I haven't read many (any?) modern novels that use an omniscient POV like this, and before reading this, I would have said I'd hate it, but it really works.
The POV slips easily between characters without every being confusing.[return][return]I also love that it was set in the '80s.
Fascinating book.
I loved this very intense story of a girl and her father, mother, and brother.
Each of their characters and their relationships are gone into with such psychological depth.
The author is able to impart a sort of heavy, although not depressing, atmosphere, which fits perfectly with the inner lives of the characters.
It’s beautifully written, and a lot of sympathy is shown for all of these quirky characters and their many flaws.
Don’t need to know about or care about mystical Judaism (I didn’t) or spelling bees to enjoy this book.
Lots of surprises.
Love, love, love the ending.
The first third was ok. The second third was tedious. The last third was awful.I was sad I read this book.
While guising as a simple plot involving a girl's quest to win a spelling bee, this book explores topics all the way from mental illness to religious awakenings.
An omnisceint narrator threads the plot together, as s/he explains the inner-most thoughts of each individual family member through short vinettes.
While this of course speaks to the strength of the author's perception in observing human behavior, I was left wondering WHY the author wanted us to know these things about her characters.
This loose plot ending, combined with both the narrator's penetrating eye and sensitive subject matter (involving the conflation of religion, sexual acts, mental illness, and family jealousy), left me with an overall eeriness upon finishing the book.
Her older brother starts spending time with people who shave their heads, smell like incense, wear orange robes, and talk about the illusions of the material world.
When your kid joins a cult, is it your shortcoming as a parent?
I also loved the very honest way that Goldberg explored the ways that Saul transfers his own dreams/goals onto a kid's life experience.
Aaron & Eliza resolve that pressure in very different ways.
I not only requested it from the library, but bumped it to the top of my "to read" queue, getting it on audiobook because that is the fastest way for me to get through a book.
When choosing a book for the library discussion group, I was offered a list from a particular program the library uses.
You could care about Eliza, and Saul was an interesting, but static, character study.The trip and fall near the end into the metaphysical wasn't really supported by the earlier plot, and again, the twist really only distracted from what the story had, up until then, been about.
And again, no one really changes in this book, though it seems intended as a character-driven work, the characters aren't enough to carry that description.If this one is already on your list for whatever reason, you may as well read it.
The father here is so caught up in the pursuit of his 'perfect' view of Judaism and what behavior does or doesn't fit his picture, that he has totally failed to see that every member of his family is being damaged, by his obsession.
He ignores his daughter in favor of training his son to fulfil his own (the father's) dreams, and then rejects his son in favor of his daughter who suddenly does something noteworthy enough to garner his interest.
And all the while, he has be absent for so many years that he does not even know that his wife has left her job and is totally wrapped up in her own mentally unstable world.
UGH!
I couldn't get through this book fast enough and I couldn't resign myself to not finish it.
Baiscally this book is about a disfunctional jewish family.
Eliza, who is at first mentally challenged, soon becomes a spelling bee champ.
Saul, her father, drops guitar lessons with his son to teach Eliza about Abulafia which is a sophisticated theory of language.
He brother, Aaron, becomes disengaged and starts to explore his own identy outside the jewish faith.
Too much time was spent on father and daughter studing Abulafia theory and too much time on Aaron looking outside the family.
Silly me, I went into this book thinking that it would be about a girl and spelling bees (despite the warnings that I now remember receiving)...
I could not imagine seeing the movie, as I think it would ruin the magic of the book.
The writing presented such PERFECT images in my head (like Miriam's "kaleidoscope" and Eliza's epiphany), seeing someone else's vision of it would absolutely kill it for me.I did often find myself, though, trying to figure out what age group this book was written for.
Still, an absolutely amazing book that I think will stay with me and haunt me.
This book is messed up.
The mother deserves to be in a mental facility, that dad is as vain as can be, and their teenage son is reckless in his own sense.
It's almost like Goldberg began writing and midway through thought, "hmm...what can I do to make this seem like the worst family ever created?" I mean, the family is so messed up that it doesn't even seem real.
Goldberg attempts to paint a picture of a typical American household but fails miserably.Aside from the plot, the writing was horrible.
When reading a book, I tend to analyze the characters.
My final words to you: Don't read this book.
A below average Jewish girl hopes her unexpected spelling abilities will help her save her family. It started out beautifully but became increasingly weirder and weirder until it discentigrated into something repelling.
If spelling the knowledge and faith contained therein were a requirement for salvation, more than likely most of us would find ourselves cooling our heels in some form of remedial purgatory, seeking divine revelation in a book rather than in ourselves and our fellow sinners.
Like many talented first-time novelists, she tends to lay on that richness until it becomes more of a wearying distraction from the dream world of fiction than a means to enhancing it.
But that seems like the kind of narrow-minded, technical criticism Mr Naumann would throw at his daughter's spelling errors.Is it a "disturbing" novel, as some have commented?
As she goes on to more serious spelling competitions, her family members begin to question their own choices.
Her 16-year-old brother considers converting from Judaism to another religion; her insomniac mother begins making strange trips to other neighborhoods; and her academic father reveals what’s really in all the books in his library.
I am sitting in the top row, watching the minions…’)I loved Miriam, the unstable mother, who was the only fully formed and understandable character, despite her mental illness.
The father was OK but pointless.I wish this book had been written from the mother’s perspective and touched on every member of the family, but without going into the details of their childhoods.
As for me, I don’t think I can ever imagine anything like that.
And Eliza, who is, in the beginning of the book, a sweet, if a little neglected little girl who has finally been discovered a talent and begins to shine, in the end becomes someone who has experienced such a terrifying feeling and sees God and becomes mature, and deliberately misspells a letter in the bee contest.
Maybe I am just too ignorant, too oblivious to the larger context, about the religions and the letters of English, but I can’t say I really like this book.
When Eliza’s newly discovered talent changes her status at home and at school, the delicate equilibrium of her family is thrown out of order, and each of the Naumanns will suffer in his or her own way.
The only reason it didn’t end up at 5 stars is that the last third or so of the novel, as both Eliza and Aaron become ever more wrapped up in their intellectual and spiritual quests, became a bit repetitive and slow for me.
I found it impossible to care about any of these characters or take much of an interest in their belated efforts to extricate themselves from the ruins of their dysfunctional family life.As a culture we are very comfortable sanctioning religious beliefs as a coping mechanism, while condemning secular delusions, alcohol, and controlled substances as a source of refuge from the harsh realities of a cruel world.
As I finished this book I was wondering if Saul, Aaron and Eliza would ultimately come to terms with reality, or would merely adopt a different coping mechanism.
Her family, which was already dysfunctional, spirals more and more out of control: (view spoiler)[her brother, who had been a devout rabbi-to-be, converts to Harre Krishna; her mother is sent to a mental institution; and her father pushes her deeper and deeper into an obscure branch of Jewish mysticism, living vicariously through her efforts (hide spoiler)].
It seems like the author took two unrelated concepts -- spelling and mysticism -- and shoehorned them together into the same book.
It turns out that the author had studied this particular mystic in college, which would explain her own fascination with him and his concepts, but I feel that it hurts her story overall.
Bee Season has four complex characters who together make a fascinating dysfunctional family.
They are all bright and quirky.
Father, mother and kids are all trying to find a way to connect to each other but instead each connects to something.
The ending,which is ambiguous, is perfect.
The story is haunting...I was really drawn into it and when I finished, I found so many ways to interpret the final scene.
I read quite a few of the reviews here and think those readers who didn't like the book or the ending just didn't get it.
I liked the way this story started out and the writing was engaging. Unfortunately about halfway through it became tedious and seemed to take a different direction. There was almost too much much dysfunction among the characters that never came together. I had high hopes since it was recommended to me. 2.5 stars
It seemed that everyone was talking about some "bee book" so I mistakenly picked this up. Come to find that The Secret Life of Bees was the "bee book" that was so popular. Instead, I read Goldberg's odd tale of an eccentric Jewish family and was sorely disappointed. Never did get around to reading Secret Life...
Onvan : Bee Season - Nevisande : Myla Goldberg - ISBN : 385498802 - ISBN13 : 9780385498807 - Dar 275 Safhe - Saal e Chap : 2000
This book was uninspiring.The voice was weird, at times acting like it wanted to reflect the characters, while other times, speaking as some weird detached narrator.
I actually delineated a paragraph that bothered me to the point that I contemplated quitting on this book."Eliza's willingness to face a conceptual Marvin Bussy evaporates at the prospect of encountering the actual one even though she knows she'd have to do something really bad to get him to pick on a kindergartner.
It never seemed to quite know what it wanted to say or the right way to say it.
