https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/98250.Once_a_Runner
I very nearly gave up and just walked away.However, if you can plow through his obscure writing structure (and thoughts) and get a few of the nuggets he gives in the first 3/4 of the book and combine them with the nuggets given in the last quarter, the ending is worth the pain.
The book is inspiring but I find the current "Born to Run" more so (though let me reiterate, the last quarter of this book is amazing!) and of course I love the reference in this book to barefoot running.The 3 stars is because his writing is so terrible!
All I can think is that the above-quoted reviewers skimmed the first 7/10ths of the book and only read the last bit, where it finally got interesting and really did have something to say about what goes on in a runner's mind during extreme effort.To be fair, there were also two excerpts that rang true to me in a pleasing way, just over halfway through:"They knew it was psychologically easier to run a familiar course than a new one, so contrary to the advice in the magazines and jogger manuals, they seldom went exploring for changes of scenery.""Though the toil was arduous, they rarely spoke of the discomfort of training or racing in terms of pain; they knew that what gave pain its truly fearful dimension was a certain lack of familiarity...
One of my favorite novels. Very funny at times. This will really strike a chord for anyone who ran distance at the college level. Parker gets everything down from the dinnertime antics to the pre-race jitters and the absolute strangeness that goes along with identifying yourself as a long distance runner. A must read for anyone planning to run a marathon or who trains regularly. A great motivator for those days when you just can't seem to get out the door. Pick this up, read a chapter, and get out there!
I was looking for running inspiration for my two half marathons this year.
I think this is relatable to a small group of super elite competitive runners who are all-consumed with achieving excellence in this field.
I was looking forward to vicariously experiencing the power of feet pounding the pavement, and not as interested in the reading about seconds shaved off a mile.
I tried really hard to connect to the runners and their endeavors, but there seemed to be a wall I couldn't get past (like Andrea, Cassidy's girlfriend in the book!) I'm going to give this three stars because I do think it has value to a select few, but not for this amateur runner.
I couldn't relate to the characters, and the jumpy, meandering style of storytelling made the main story line difficult to follow (or even detect) for the first half the book.
(It also brought back all the most painful, most horrific parts of running track, which sort of sucked, but I guess that's kind of the point.) It's when Parker is actually writing about running and training and racing that it's not too bad, and there were definitely a few sections near the end where I found myself thinking, "OMG, it is/was *totally* just like that," so he gets an extra star for that.
If you are or have been a super competitive male college track star, this book *might* be for you.
But if you're a runner, you can't not like this book.
I devoured the parts about running and training because they were so bang on and passionately written.
But the side plots about love affairs and political drama were like junk miles to me and I found myself skimming over them.
I gotta say, just reading about Quentin Cassidy's determination and drive as a competitive miler made me want to go out and do some repeats.I really don't think a non-runner would get this.
In fact, I'd say it's required reading for people who do speed training!!Cassidy's heart tried to leap out through his taught skin and hop into his wet hands.
After reading this book written in 1978 I understand why it went from a small publisher to being sold out of trunks during track meets and runs to cult classic to now being regarded by many as the best book on running ever written.But this is not just a runner's book.
in fact it is now one of my all time favorite books period.Set in an university during the 70's the book is about a nonconformist runner who loves to think for himself and loves to run.
A sample early passage:...the runners kept up all matter of chatter and horseplay.
But these runners resembled them only in the sense that a puma resembles a pussycat.
I do a little distance running, and I found the descriptions of the act quite accurate, as will most who have run before, but I did not find it new, strange, exciting, funny, or frightening.Unfortunately the characters act and sound like the corny youths seen in the movie "Sleepaway Camp".Runner's World declares this book "The best book ever written about running." A limited distinction similar to "The best book written about pickled vegetables." or "The best book written about toenail clipper manufacturing."Still, I'm thrilled that a "cult running book" exists, even if it is boring.
And I personally never fell in love with any of the characters, no matter how much I could or could not relate to them.And yet.I have never read anything that captures the experience of a competitive runner more accurately than some of the passages in this book.
I have never read anything that makes me want to get out there and train like this book does.
It's the only chance you'll ever have to climb inside the head of another runner and truly know that they feel just as shitty and just as elated as you've felt.For these reasons, I loved the book.
Not that runners make bad writers (or readers, can there be a bad or good reader?), but runners are usually people obsessed with running over everything else, so a book about a runner is probably the coolest thing in the world for them.
The way the writer likes to say "miles of trials, the trial of miles" more than once, and the fact that he even says that same catchy little phrase in the dedication, tells me he probably though of that one day while running and thinks it's something good enough to be in a book.
Say that to my face after I run 10 miles in 25-degree weather.But, that aside, the descriptions of the rituals, the runner's mysticism, and the things that repeat through your brain (like crazy song lyrics, which definitely happens to me) as you train will resonate with any runner, or really anyone who is serious about a sport.
And I did like the character, Quenton Cassidy, and I see why it has cult classic status among runners.
I just wish the author had been more respectful to those of us who consider ourselves "runners" but can't run a mile in four minutes.
I had read an excerpt of this book that was in the Runners Anthology and loved that. Reading the whole book though was incredible. It really was one that was hard to put down and when he goes into training (I won't spoil this part) but I will say that I devoured the book from that point on. Loved it.
Two alternating themes that worked great together: >What running a four-minute mile means< and 1970s jock culture.One film and one book to compare it to: "Everybodywantssome!!" that was funny too, but the baseball never became about anything real.
And Krabbe's The Rider which also ends in a great race description yet ultimately refuses to tell us what riding hard is about.RUNNING A FOUR-MINUTE MILE IS ABOUT BECOMING A NEW AND BETTER BEINGHaha, it's completely ridiculous.
But those of us who have tried to escape their shit and the general meaninglessness of life get it.
I could watch Amadeus every day, if there were time for it amid training runs, dish washing, enjoying my funky, creative job, bursts of novel writing, and who knows what.In this book, Parker puts the magnifying glass to the extreme focus of a man perfecting the running of a mile.
Runners love this book because Parker gets the progression just right, but those stages generalize pretty well to all kinds of effort.
I'm working on NaNo. I know.That's why the book succeeds in spite of the fact it's a crappy novel.
All sorts of plot complications never get resolved, as things work out in the end for Quenton Cassidy.
Once A Runner Review It is not often that the emotions of the distance runner are described. These emotions remain hidden, out of sight for the average person. To dedicate themselves to something so hard, so burdening, would be a waste of their time. Few understand the unique breed that is the distance runner. I, a cross-country man myself, didn’t understand for nearly sixteen years. I once thought of running as a waste of time. I thought of it as cruel. I thought of it as unrewarding and unprod
Few understand the unique breed that is the distance runner.
I, a cross-country man myself, didn’t understand for nearly sixteen years.
I once thought of running as a waste of time.
A feeling has grown strong, like a spark becoming a flame.
The first reason why I liked this book is because it’s easy to connect to.
It described the true feeling of being a runner, and the many experiences that we encounter.
The second reason why I like this book is because that it could have been real, and I would have never known.
I love to be immersed in a world about which I know nothing, and this book was a revelation.
Reading it was probably the closest I'll ever get to knowing what it must be like to be an athlete in top condition.
make you bolt awake in the middle of the night with an involuntary shot of your own true adrenaline, ready to run a hundred miles; .
Maybe every athlete who goes for the gold must be just a little mad.One of the reasons I read is for a taste of a world I will never know in any other way.
I found the first quarter to third of this book slightly self-indulgent, but OMG, the last 30-40 pages are everything. I do think this is one of those books that would be difficult to appreciate and connect with if you haven't raced competitively - just because there are so many small moments that bring back a rush of nostalgia (or pre-race terror :) ). But if you've run competitively, this is definitely one I'd highly recommend.
Inspiring... motivational... entertaining... for runners. If the same story was told about someone playing volleyball I wouldn't have enjoyed it as much. The book reminded me why I run: To overcome the inner coward; to chase my demons; to savor the endorphins; because I have two legs and can.
A lot of people describe this book as a cult classic, and it totally is. But I loved every sentence of it.If you ran high school/college track, especially at the 1500m distance, you will love this. Lots of track drama, but loaded with track and field jargon. Great story, quick read.
I can't tell if the runner in me is being biased, but that was a great book.
One of the hardest books I've ever read, because there were words I had to translate. It took a lot of time to understand what I was reading. But I like it and I want to read it again in the future.
It's a view seen by precious few, to take a love of going fast so far that your speed truly boggles the mind; to stand on top of a mountain nightmarish to climb, that grants you a profound, shapeless sort of satisfaction that you can carry with you anywhere.The story breathes with nostalgia, and exactly the kind of story you might expect a retired runner to write about their own experience (which, with some minor adjustments, this book sort of is).
First of all, I am a runner, not an elite runner, but currently marathon training and thought this book might give me some motivation.
The first half of the book had me lost and confused.
There were so many characters and different things going on that didn't ever seem to come back into the book.
The last few chapters about racing made the book worth reading because it was very exciting and I could connect to how he felt.
Non-runners...I wouldn't advise picking this book up.
Without my runner connection I would have given only one star.
New years resolution to be more critical with my ratings. I definitely enjoyed it, but some of the pseudo science and wacky training philosophies were hard to look past. The relationship bit with Andrea was really dumb and didn't seem to contirbute to the story.
It's not just the running paces or the 100+ mile/week routine that is mentioned in the book, it's the glimpse into the heart, mind, and soul of these runners that makes this one of the most gripping tales I've read.
I would have fallen into that camp two years ago, but now, even after my feeble efforts of running, my hat goes off and my jaw drops when I read of the training, the times, the emotions, and physical stresses revealed in this book.
I took up Once A Runner looking for a book like Chris McDougall's (nonfiction) Born to Run...
With plenty of wit, John Parker manages to describe all the ineffable little facets of running that make it wonderful, but also very confusing at times.
It made me feel a part of the running family.
I found this book to be supremely readable, and liked it so much I'll probably read it again someday.
Last, why would you read a RUNNING book if you're not invested in the subject matter?
I don’t think the author is a particularly gifted writer, but since I'm a former college distance runner, the novel held my interest--I couldn't put it down.
I enjoyed reading about the experience of “being a miler.” I ran a lot mile races—just not as fast as the protagonist.
I ran many similar interval workouts in college and high school.I’m guessing the runner that the main character competed against at the end of the book was based on John Walker of New Zealand (called John Walton in the story).
Walker did indeed break the world mile record around that time (1975), but Parker (the author) changed the time as well as his name.
Loaned by Devin, this book touches the part of you that wants to go to the Olympics and thinks that, with a little more work, you can.
I am not a runner, but have been an athlete and can tell you the experience Parker relates transcends any particular sport, so you may resonate with this, whether a runner or not.
Parker cannot really recreate the feelings for me, or himself, or even his protagonist: he notes it afterwards, and tries to drive home the importance of experiencing it while it is happening to you.
I really liked how Parker included other aspects of Cassidy's life in the story besides the running aspect.
I especially loved the parts with Andrea (I love romance, what can I say?) But what I really, truly loved about the book was the way he described running.
I especially liked the quote on page 99 that talked about pre-race nerves.
When Quenton Cassidy was getting prepared and then running that last race in the book, my heart was literally pounding like I was the one racing (ok maybe not that bad...
I have been hearing about this book from fellow runners for about three years now, and everybody (plus or minus a few) say the same thing - that it's the best book about running they've ever read.
I didn't know where it was going to go, and how can you write about running for over 200 pages while still keeping some semblance of plot on top of split times?By the end of the book I could not put it down.
Just the way I like it.Overall I would rate this as the best book about running that I've ever read.
I definitely recommend this book to all runners, no matter how fast or slow your mile time.
