https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27824826-the-dry
I feel privileged to have found such a golden story to catalogue in my mind so early in the year; the complex web of deceit and lies in this farmland of Australia completely captivated me to the point I actually found myself trying to piece together the various mysteries while doing other daily activities.While the writing was excellent and the mysteries were well done, what placed this book in 5 star land for me was the depth and beauty given to the characters.
Luke Hadler may have had a light on waiting for him when he came home, but something else from this wretched, desperate community had seeped through that front door and into his home. And it had been rotten and thick and black enough to extinguish that light forever.  The Dry actually makes me feel vindicated in my rating and review of Ritter's Bonfire last year. I got some criticisms that I was being too harsh toward a debut author; that a lot of thrillers follow a familiar format but that doe
Then, in swoops Harper here, a debut novelist, writing a mystery/thriller story whose foundations are very similar to Bonfire (and other works in the genre) and yet it is utterly gripping.You know how the bare bones of these stories go.
And I personally think this is what makes a good mystery - the unveiling of the tale and the whys of the crime are good enough to make it okay if you guess whodunnit.A really impressive start to this new series starring Aaron Falk.
Aaron Falk and his father were run out of their home in Kiewarra over twenty years ago over rumours of Aaron's hand in the death of Ellie Deacon.
Led by Mel and Dow Deacon, the old rumours about Aaron having a hand in Ellie's death are resurrected and a vociferous campaign against him begins.
Aaron's memories of the past come to the fore and the mystery of Ellie's death runs as a concurrent thread.
The truth behind Ellie's death also begins to become clear.The author does an excellent job in bringing Kiewarra alive and the disparate characters that inhabit the place.
The pace is steady and slow, verging on dull at times but never quite crossing that line.
Now pile onto that a young girl's unresolved death lingering in the stale air; the recent murder of a mother and son; the suicide of a husband, and a town full of suspects.
I’d say the tone is expertly set, and yes, it’s bleak and dreary and despairing and you can feel it.
As for the intricacies and puzzles of the plot, I’d say they were decent and held my interest fairly securely throughout.
5 unflinchingly bright hot stars for 'The Dry'Love having reading friends to share books with!
Thanks Mel. Very glad to have unexpectedly stumbled across this one, considering I’d had a recent conversation with my local bookstore manager where she’d mentioned it’s their top seller.
I always ask her what is the current best seller.
Best seller it is.A dazzling debut where again I am left wondering, what’s debut-ish about this work?
The entire read I was chopping and changing my mind about who killed this young family in cold blood.
Would love to know what you think.
This is my kind of mystery/thriller!When Aaron returns to his hometown to attend the funeral of his childhood friend, Luke, he intends to make a retreat back to his life as a federal agent, as quickly as possible.
The shocking murder/ suicide is a compelling mystery full of unexpected revelations and surprising twists, but the secondary thread that takes up equal space in the novel, is a haunting cold case story centered around the death of a friend of Luke’s and Aaron’s back in their youth.
Aaron and his father were both suspects in the girl’s death, and left town under a cloud of suspicion.
I was drawn to this arid Australian crime thriller by a desert storm of five-star reviews, not to mention the fact that this was the Sunday Times Crime Book of the Year.Hmmm…*Fold his arms and sighs*I’m not saying that this was a bad book … it was OK … though the storyline (for me) was flat, improbable, slow-paced and bereft of suspense.Apart from that, it was fine!Bland federal agent, Aaron Falk, returns to the small Outback town of his childhood for the funeral of his best friend (and best friend's immediate family) and is drawn into an unofficial investigation as to how they really met their deaths.Here is a list of just some of the things that niggled me:1) The book is titled The Dry. It’s set in the swelter of the Outback in middle of the worst drought to hit Australia in a century.
With a few exceptional characters preceding Aaron Falk (Harry Potter, Christian Grey, Edward Cullen, Kinsey Milhone) have I read an entire series.
I will not be missing any book that Aaron Falk is in.
Now, add a hardworking federal cop, Aaron Falk, who has relunctantly come back to his hometown for the funeral of his best friend.
Aaron and Luke shared a secret many years ago which we learn of during the investigation of the family murder.
I will follow Aaron Falk through every one of his next books, even if there are fifty more to come.
Falk is forced to remember what happened two decades before, when a friend, Ellie Deacon, was found dead in the river and a note addressed to him turned up.
Falk works with some of the local authorities to investigate the deaths, turning up small inconsistencies.
Working to uncover what might have happened on the Hadler farm, Falk must clear his friend's name, while standing firm as the past rears its ugly head.
Aaron Falk serves as a wonderful protagonist as he keeps the narrative moving forward with his investigative skills, though the darker past that he has been forced to revisit keeps readers wondering about this man until the final sentence.
Aaron and his father left town years ago - after it was implied that Aaron had a role in the death of a young girl named Ellie Deacon.
Barb thinks money may have played a part of it besides....Aaron knew Luke better than any of the town police.
Ellie was friends with both Luke and Aaron as teenagers.
The only truth we know early in this story is that BOTH Aaron and Luke lied the night of Ellie's death.
*4.5 STARS*First things first, applause for author Jane Harper, who's put together this cracking storyline set in the Australian farming community of Kiewarra.
Luke Hadler allegedly killed his wife Karen and young son Billy before turning the gun on himself, but is this tragedy as cut and dried as it appears?Federal Police Investigator Aaron Falk returns for the funeral of his childhood friend Luke, but he faces animosity and threats regarding the suicide of Ellie Deacon some twenty years ago.
Wow, this was really a great book! I love it when books which are hyped actually live up to the praise they're getting, and Jane Harper's  The Dry  definitely did.This book had everything—great writing, a terrifically evocative setting (I felt hot every time I read it, and it wasn't just because I'm running a fever, and I kept expecting everyone I came into contact with to speak with an Australian accent), interesting character development, and lots of twists and turns. It's amazing to think tha
It's amazing to think that this is Harper's debut novel, because it felt like a book written by a virtuoso.Federal Agent Aaron Falk returns to Kiewarra, the small, rural Australian town where he grew up, when he hears that his childhood best friend, Luke, is dead, along with Luke's wife and young son.
These are questions Aaron and his police partner need to find answers to, but will danger find them first?The truth is, a lot of times I'm hesitant to read crime or mystery novels where you actually have to figure out who the perpetrator is, mainly because I feel this way:
I sigh with relief when I realize I've read a 5 star book at last.
I sigh with content.
The setting was kind of interesting, and I have always believed that pound for pound, Australian literature has been punching above its weight for quite some time.This book was so good.
So freaking good.
This is the writing that will entice millions across the globe.It's been centuries since the classical revolution, and the empirical golden age, yet the English language seems to be a leader in authors and books.
I hope it will keep on churning books like The Dry centuries after my death.
Things are dying… and people are too.When a farmer and his family are found shot dead, the community readily accepts that hopelessness and desperation have caused the father, Luke Hadler, to murder his wife and son and leaves his thirteen month daughter alive, before turning the gun on himself.
His childhood friend, Aaron Falk, returns to Kiewarra to attend the funeral.
Luke’s parents beg Aaron, a federal agent with the Financial Intelligence Unit in Melbourne, to look into Luke’s finances to see if things were really so dire that he committed murder-suicide.
I cannot wait to read book two in the series.
The setting surrounding the dry conditions of this small town in Australia was so vivid that it had me desperately wanting and waiting for the rain to pour!The novel kept me guessing as the mysteries gradually unfolded, although there was nothing real surprising with the reveal it was the way that the author delivered this story that made this book an exceptional read.
I also really enjoyed Aaron Falk’s character and will wait patiently to read the next book in this series.
Aaron Falk, a federal financial police officer, reluctantly returns to Kiewarra to attend the funeral of his former best friend, Luke Hadler.
It appears that Luke committed a murder suicide, killing his wife, Karen, and their six-year-old son, Billy, before taking his own life.
Why would Luke Hadler kill his wife and son?
Not only is Falk’s life put in danger, but also the entire community Kiewarra is put at risk.I can’t say enough good things about The Dry. The plot is intricately woven, the characters are developed, the writing is engaging, and the mystery is satisfying!
I’m sure that a big part of the allure of this story (about a guy, Falk, who is trying to solve a heinous crime) is its vivid, scorched setting.
I don’t dislike them, but it has to be a knock-my-socks-off kind of thing for me to get all busy with a Joy Jar. Complaint Board-Pick up the pace.
-If it’s a small town, I’m a pain in the ass.
Writers who set their stories in small towns have to work harder to please me: There must be exceptional language or characters, or the emotions must be palpable.
4.5 Stars ”The Outback is impossible, forever and it’s freeNo way can I find an end to what it means to me” Sing You the Outback John WilliamsonMere days ago, I was inundated by water. Water, water, everywhere… Rivers overflowing … and suddenly I find myself transported to a land where rain hadn’t fallen in nearly two years.”The drought had left the flies spoiled for choice that summer.” The farmers told themselves that the drought wouldn’t last, said those words to each other, and to themselves
Water, water, everywhere… Rivers overflowing … and suddenly I find myself transported to a land where rain hadn’t fallen in nearly two years.”The drought had left the flies spoiled for choice that summer.” The farmers told themselves that the drought wouldn’t last, said those words to each other, and to themselves, silently whispered like a desperate prayer.
And it had been rotten and thick and black enough to extinguish that light forever.”Falk has no idea what could have possibly prompted an act like this from Luke, it’s been a long time since the days when they were friends.
This was my final book to complete my 2018 Goodreads challenge, and what a book it was!Holy shit! 4.5 ⭐ "They're like sharks in here mate...they'll pounce at the first sign of blood." Wow! This was the definition of a claustrophobic small country town. Aaron Faulk returns to Kierawalla for the first time in 20 years, but not on good terms. His childhood friend is dead, presumed suicide after murdering his wife and son. Twenty years previous, a teenage girl drowned in the nearby river, throwing t
Aaron Faulk returns to Kierawalla for the first time in 20 years, but not on good terms.
His childhood friend is dead, presumed suicide after murdering his wife and son.
Twenty years previous, a teenage girl drowned in the nearby river, throwing the whole town into turmoil.
The searing heat, caused by 2 years with no rainfall only adds to the paranoid and boiling atmosphere.
As Aaron begins looking into the death of Luke Hadler and his family, he becomes more and more uncertain.
Luke was many things as a teen, but a murderer?
I did not see that twist coming and just when I thought I had it all figured out, that theory was shot to hell.
Falk, a cop who has come back for the funeral, is coaxed into staying to dig into the truth of what really happened to the family.
Loved the style of writing as well as the different font to reflect the past.
I would have loved a bit more description of this land of desolation in a country so far from my own but, hey, I can always read a travel log.And, the bestest thing about this novel - a sequel has already been born!
So, with nothing much to go on Aaron and the local Police Sergeant start looking into the tragedy, yet they find that secrets, including Aaron's own have a way of making their way to the surface, and that small town mindsets are hard to shake.In this gripping debut Jane Harper has really captured the essence of small towns, and her descriptions of the people, and the grip of the drought, are all too real.
An entertaining, easy & quick read.
Not automatically my first choice in the enormous stack of books at home in terms of topic/theme (well...
No. It was a good read for me, but that's it.
Entertaining, not a top top top read for me.
About the story: Aaron Falk, a cop, returns to his home town in the unbearable heat of Australia, for the funeral of his best childhood friend, killed with his wife and kid.
Hooking up with a local cop, he starts to look into the case, as things do not look as they seem...Entertaining read.
In my personal opinion, if this isn't a 5-star read, then I don't know what is.
This is one of those books that you will find yourself trying to sneak in pages here and there, whenever you have a single spare moment, because you will want to know how it ends.
Absolutely unputdownable, I finished this in 24 hours and I had limited reading time (read: I stayed up way too late to finish this baby!).
If I had to choose something negative to say, I will say that the subject matter was difficult to read at times, however the violence wasn't graphic or gratuitous, it was mostly implied.
If I’d known, I would have done things differently. It was too late for that now. Some things had to be lived with. The Dry is such a heavy and ‘adult’ book: not in the sexual content or violence, although there were several stomach-churning descriptions, no, it’s such an ‘adult book’ in the sense of maturity, with hardships, human disconnections and buried secrets. The book simply felt genuine and full of emotions. Do books have emotions anyhow? Well, It certainly made me full of emotions, I c
If I’d known, I would have done things differently.
It was too late for that now.
Some things had to be lived with.
The book simply felt genuine and full of emotions.
Do books have emotions anyhow?
Well, It certainly made me full of emotions, I can tell you that.The story is better than I expected yet still, probably about 4 stars for me but the writing is exceptional: very atmospheric, it was more like ‘watching’ movie than just ‘reading’ a book for me.
Things were so vivid, too vivid to be contained only to the pages, I suspect.
His former best mate, Aaron Falk, is now a Melbourne cop, and he has been summoned by Luke’s father with a letter saying: 
He’s also fearful of what the accusation of lying might mean.In high school, Luke, Aaron, and Ellie had run around together as a group, as kids do, swimming in the river, and when the amusing, effervescent Gretchen (
I’ve seldom seen it so well done.The pub, the town, the cop shop, the milk bar, the school – they are all very real – as of course are the dust and heat that no amount of air conditioning can dispel.Absolutely fantastic!
So this is a really good debut novel about a farming community in Australia, the murder of a young family..father, mother, young son, but their baby left unharmed.This story also goes back and forth from present time to 20 yrs earlier when this father and his group of four friends were growing up there.
One of the group, Falk, is now a cop from the another city, who comes to town for the funeral of his friend and his family, and ends up on the case to try and find the killer.
I enjoyed the book, especially liked Falk.
The ground is hard and cracked, plants are dead and brown, and the river is bone dry.
When a farmer, Luke Hadler, appears to have killed his wife and child and then committed suicide, the powder keg is ready.Aaron Falk, a federal police officer in Melbourne, receives a note that draws him back to the town he left twenty years ago.
"Luke lied.
You lied.
Be at the funeral." The fuse was laid years ago, and now it's lit.Jane Harper has got some writing talent.
The Dry hit all the marks for me.

It was the same then as it is now."Aaron Falk returns to the small farming community of his boyhood.
Falk's best friend of his youth, Luke Hadler, is found dead in the back of his pickup truck with a self-inflicted shotgun wound to the head.
Falk and his father abandoned their home in Kiewarra under some very dire circumstances.
Falk and Hadler had been connected to the drowning death of a young girl, Ellie, twenty years ago.
Can he make inroads into the parallels of the present and the past?Jane Harper is a remarkable writer.
The Dry is about Aaron Falk as he returns to his very dry hometown (I mean that both literally and figuratively) Kiewarra, to attend the funeral of his childhood friend Luke Hadler who allegedly murdered his wife, his child, decided to leave the baby alone and then go off himself.
So Aaron Falk asked by both a local cop and Luke Hadler's father begins looking into his friend's death and finding out if he truly did murder his family and then kill himself, while simultaneously figuring out what happened to his friend Ellie all those years ago.
