https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/543013.Catherine_of_Aragon
OK, that was a digression – but what’s better than finding things inside used books?!
(Say it with me now – divorced, beheaded, died; divorced, beheaded, survived!) But after reading this book I can finally say that I have a better understanding of Catherine, because Mattingly describes her childhood, education, & goes into detail about the long and successful marriage she enjoyed with Henry prior to his involvement with Anne Boleyn.
Catherine was the daughter of Ferdinand & Isabella of Spain, & was probably one of the best-educated princesses of her time, extremely qualified to be Queen of England.
Not a good read - an EXCELLENT read.I had no idea this book existed until I saw it on the shelf in a used bookstore.
I gasped with happiness to find a book on the Tudors I hadn't read yet and snatched it off the shelf.
The book is chock full of facts from her birth to death, filled with details about her life and the people she interacted with and how her part in events played out, with great looks into motivation without spilling over into pure fan fiction.
I enjoyed this portrait of a very principled and stubborn woman who would not say what she didn't believe to be true, at the cost of her station and health.
Mattingly also tries at one point to equate Catherine's motivations regarding the question of divorce to Henry's which is ridiculous.
Catherine was merely trying to retain her good name, keep England out of war, stand for the truth and protect the church, all the while attempting to guard her daughter's reputation as well, the last something Henry seemed to care little about.Mattingly also neglected to adequately convey the dire situation Queen Catherine was living in the last year or so of her life while banished to the outskirts of the country.
Simply, the book takes Ferdinand and Isabella’s youngest daughter Catherine and follows as she is betrothed to Arthur (son of England’s Henry VII)…Arthur dies very early in the marriage…possibly before it ever being consummated.
Catherine stayed married to Henry VIII for 24 years, until being supplanted by Anne Boleyn.The intrigue and double/triple dealings of these royals is wonderful history…and probably more interesting than any fiction could hope to be.
Mattingly doesn’t miss a move.
If you are interested in this period, this is wonderful reading and a great primer on Henry VIII.
A great biography of a great royal consort, England's beloved Queen Cate.This daughter of Queen Isabella I of Castile and King Ferdinand II of Aragon was three when betrothed to Arthur, Prince of Wales, heir apparent to the English throne.
After Catherine's many unsuccessful births and only a daughter (Mary) Henry set his eye on Catherine's Lady in Waiting Anne Boleyn, with ideas for for a male heir.Seeking to have his marriage annulled, Henry initiated England's schism with the Catholic Church.
In 1533 Catherine's marriage was declared invalid and Henry married Anne.Catherine always considered herself Henry's rightful wife and queen, never accepting him as the Church of England's Supreme Head.
I am a huge anglophile,especially of Tudor England, so this was right up my alley! What a well written book. It read like a novel, and last week I read a historical fiction novel of Catherine and I could tell that the author of the novel used this novel as the basis of her research. I felt like a detective figuring that one out! I would incourage anyone interested in historical biographies to read this.
Good, solid history of Catherine of Aragon - the daughter of Ferdinand and Isabella, who couldn't give Henry VIII a son and led to the English break with Rome. Catherine was a very strong woman, who had a very clear sense of herself and her role. Our world would be very different if she had been able to ensure the Tudor succession. Mattingly has an engaging style.
This is the first biography of Catherine of Aragon I read. I got a very old edition, a Spanish edition I think. It is very thorough, albeit a bit outdated (I am eager to check the upcoming book by Patrick Williams). Though I read a spanish translation, I can tell the writing style is quite rich. I think it's a must read for any Catherine enthusiast.
This was a very well-written biography that read like a novel. Catherines life was frustrating to read about as a modern woman, and her intelligence probably made her life that much harder because it was so out of place in that time.
This was a very well-written biography that read like a novel. Catherine´s life was frustrating to read about as a modern woman, and her intelligence probably made her life that much harder because it was so out of place in that time.
Yes, it's old, and dated, and it's not exactly balanced—Mattingly loathes Anne Boleyn—but when Anne is usually glorified, Catherine gets thrown in the shadows. Yet, it was with her that Henry VIII spent most of his reign.Her courage is hard to imagine, and she deserves to be commended for it.
Masterful though now somewhat dated biography of Henry VIII's first queen, Catherine of Aragon. Mattingly set a high standard with this biography, and especially for his more famous work: The Armada.
Whew! Exhaustive and tiring at times but a good read nonetheless. The way it is written kept me interested as I read on the el on the way to and from work. If you've ever seen the British series The Forsythe's, you'll appreciate this.
Wonderful book. Very detailed account of Catherine's life, I would highly recommended this.
Hard to read... we read the 1042 edition, and it was not good!!! Found the subject very interesting - but this version... yuck!
A good account of Catherine without getting too much into others in her story.
It was great the first 1/3. It was so well written, but it lost me after that as it got muddled up in the facts.
This book is too long and too detailed, and the prose is stilted and ornate. Mattingly is at his best when he focuses on Catherine and her relationship with Henry VIII. Unfortunately, he often takes his eye off Catherine and writes in excruciating detail about other subjects. A much shorter book focusing more on Catherine would have been much better.
I love Mattingly's prose, and his analysis of Henry VIII, Catherine, and Pope Clement roles in provoking the Reformation is powerful and cogent.
Catherine of Aragon (Hardcover) by Garrett Mattingly
While many contemporaries like to pit her against Anne Boleyn, saying she was the meek wife - she was anything but - this book, if it does not paint her as a political power in her own right at the very least a political agent/ambassador of Spain.
When you think of all this, you are just in complete awe.This book is the definitive biography on Katherine of Aragon.
He just gets Katherine so well and paints her as a powerful woman and political player that used her iron will against all odds to stick by her beliefs, no matter the consequences.
IT'S ABOUT TIME !!!!!!...time that someone wrote about this Tudor Queen AND in detail !!!!!!!!!!!!!!
The up side is that it is very detailed and edifying in its descriptions of, not only one of the most famous queens in history, but also of her husband, Henry VIII.
King Henry's long, unsuccessful effort to get the pope to rule that his 18 year marriage to Catherine was null lead to Henry separating England from the Catholic Church and installing himself as the head of the new Church of England.
If you have an interest the history of this era, this book will open your eyes to the power plays and political machinations of both the royal court and the church.
He never really tries to analyze either Catherine's motivation in historical context or Henry's place within English history.
This is not surprising given the author's background in Spanish history.As a modern reader, I was unsympathetic toward Catherine's acceptance of potential martyrdom and thought the book under-explored this aspect of her personality.
While I can see this as a manifestation of the over the top religious zeal that seems to be a key aspect of culture in Renaissance Spain, the author did little to illuminate that aspect of her conflict with Henry.I recommend this book.
The interesting thing to me about historical scholarship is how, due to its nature, its classics don't necessarily age in the same way other disciplines' might: this was written seventy years ago, & except for the rather coy language used around the mechanics of whether or not Catherine's marriage to the Prince Arthur was consummated, it reads similarly to current writings on the same topic.Someone interested in Tudor England, & especially the fallout from Henry VIII's troubled marital adventures, particularly the invention of a limited monarchy & of course the Reformation of the Church of England, will definitely find the extensive look at the labyrinthine political questions of the time fascinating.
When I got it home I found it was missing the first 47 pages but I figured I knew enough about Catherine that I could forego them if the rest of the book was a good read.
Not only was it a good read but a GREAT read!
Few people of our generations today are confronted with the options and decisions she had to make and live with.The text itself is not easy reading as the grammatical style is antique and it is rife with run-on sentences, but its a GREAT read.
The author of this book on Henry the VIII's first wife Catherine died in 1962. He was a noted historian however and the story he tells of this dynamic and stubborn queen keeps you turning the pages. Because of my love of Kings and Queens, my book club recommended this to me and I was not disappointed. Born in 1485 to the Spanish ruler King Ferninand and Isabella, Catherine portrays a will equal to any woman today. She survived while Anne Boleyn did not. By wit and stubborness. Her daughter became Queen eventually and was known as Bloody Mary.
Another addition to my endless reading about the Tudors. It really struck me as I read this one how much the schemes and plans of various rulers were completely derailed by people's deaths. Ferdinand and Isabella's kids tended to die young, and the Tudors weren't exactly healthy. Mattingly makes it very obvious that he loathes Anne Boleyn and her relatives, no traces of sympathy there at all. Not that they deserve much sympathy, but other authors I've read aren't as unremittingly negative.
One of the more clear descriptions (and not completely biased on the side of Protestantism) of the years leading up to the reformation. I still can't believe Henry VII treated her the way he did, as well as her own father, or that Henry VIII actually saved her from a life of exile in England (or a maid in Spain) after seven years in captivity. All I'd ever read is the back end, where Henry mistreated her. So well written and such a sad story.
A daughter of Ferdinand and Isabel of Spain, Catherine became the first wife of King Henry VIII of England, and therein lies a tale, about one of the greatest games of power ever played. Henry could be very charming, but he liked to get his own way. Catherine, a woman born to duty, was loyal, intelligent, courageous, and affectionate; she matched her efforts with Henry as no one else could. Her biographer covers her story in gripping detail.
