https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40778983-the-diary-of-ana-s-nin-volume-2-1934-1939
It flows like a river.”  — The Diary of Anais Nin, Vol. TwoI loved Anais Nin’s first diary and I enjoyed this one too.
She truly makes diary-writing an art form.In this diary, Ms. Nin is a little restless: should she stay in Louveciennes or should she go to New York?
The part when she was in New York seemed a bit surreal; I can’t imagine Anais Nin at Madison Square Garden watching a hockey game!The diary was written prior to World War Two so this diary therefore has several political mentions in it: “A war is going on which people doubt will become a real war.
New York and Paris. Gonzalo the hunky Spaniard--guitarist, revolutionary, gigolo--and his awful crippled wife, who move in with Anais on the houseboat in the Seine (not a spoiler!) The Spanish Civil war. The end of Anais and Henry. The advent of the outrageously young, the dizzily intelligent Laurence Durrell. The visit to Fez and the publication of House of Incest. Oh, the older I get, the better these Diaries are--now that I've heard of Brassai and Artaud and James Laughlin the publisher, I've read Proust. It just gets richer with time.
nin is participating a lot in cafe/salon culture, making friends with various artists, reading manuscripts, still financially supporting henry miller, etc.
i can see that perspective now that we are seventy years removed & many of the events & people that nin mentions in her diaries have been given an official historical context, but the thing is, we are living in our own historical context right now.
i guess a lot of people find her diaries interesting to read because they are full of famous people, artists, events, historical moments, & that's fine.
The pages have turned yellow brown with age and stiffened with coldness.
Has it waited out death for 4o years to die in warmth?
I will not aid in the murdering of something once so beautiful and filled with a thousand lives.
The pages fall off like the hair of a chemo patient.
Luxurious with organic flow that never had seized to grow until the day black forced itself upon it and stayed.
Now I can begin to help it heal and stop the quiet suffocation it has endured.
With the turn of each page a breath is taken.
Air is beginning of Life.
It will live.
And then, just like that, I saw the movie Henry and June a few weeks ago, and, well, her Diaries were off-loaded to the guy at the Goodwill Donation center this past weekend (along with All the Sad, Young Literary Men, Then We Came To The End, and How to Lose Friends and Alienate People).
And this somehow painted her as a selfish (cheating on her husband), mind-absorbed (not in her sexual-feeling like her writing so well-illustrates or seems to illustrate), out-of-touch aristocrat type...Ah so des ka.
But the movie is one thing and Nin's writing is another.
For some reason I enjoy "hanging out" with Anais during the summer.
So to keep in form, I read Diary 2.
Not as good as the first, I still enjoyed her artistic writing style (even the mundane is viwed as art) and her colorful life.
It is hard to imagine doing some of the impulsive things she does (e.g. leaving her home to purchase a riverboat, etc).
These types of experiences make for a fun, interesting read.
Her books aren't life altering, but they do tend to grab my attention and Anais haunts me.
I guess I will need to wait until next summer.
Rather than talk about what I learned, I just wanted to warn people that before buying these books they should check to see whether it is the "censored" or "unexpurgated" version. I didn't know and bought 3 "censored" volumes (this was because people she mentioned were still living at the time of publication. Republishing was the full version. These are still worth reading if you can find the uncensored ones...
This ought to be read in the fall, sitting on a bench in Thompkins Square Park (in the East Village), while sipping on an Americano from 9th Street Espresso. Ideally you'll be resting your feet on a skateboard. Or maybe that's just me.
Staying deeply rooted to intuition, sensations, feelings rather than the intellect, premeditation, ideas.
Poca objetividad con esta escritora, al menos 10 estrellas. Su erótica pluma es una de las más bellas de todos los tiempos! La epoca en la que vivió fue también muy prolífica y estimulante, fue amiga de pintores, dramaturgos, escritores, bailarinas, psicoanalistas, entre ellos Artaud y Miller, dos hermosos monstruos!
There are a lot of thoughts in this diary that I loved, and those gems made this book well worthwhile. However, I found I lacked interest in her life, and this being a diary, there were a lot of entries about her problems mothering her friends with their various problems and vices. It was a struggle for me to finish this, but I did enjoy her insights.
Knowing about the life of Anais Nin, I can only regard this work as utter fiction. Her adolescent and arrogant delusions are at times amusing, other times embarrassing. Yet there is something interesting.....
I spread out on my bed all the gifts I brought from New York. A set of wooden dishes with astrologic symbols against blue-painted edges. We will have a dinner and invite Antonin Artaud.-Anais Nin, The Diary of Anais Nin
giving this four stars even though i found all her ruminations on the differences between women & men annoying. not sure if i overlooked that in the first volume or if it was heavier in this one. anyway, her writing is magic & reading the diaries always inspires me to write more in mine.
underwhelming. nice writing at times but she doesnt seem like a particularly insightful, intelligent or interesting individual tbh
had the whole set and read them all at 17 or 18. Enthralled then, would probably be less enthralled and more irritated were I to read them now.
Marvelous.
Nearly breathless, I will write something in here soon.
Read all about her affair with Henry Miller.
People criticize Nin for, among other things, her self-absorption, but I think any diary of anyone, literary or not, has at its central character the diarist.
Instead it is the incredible time and place she documents — the Paris alive with creativity and forward thinking (avant garde)before WWII.
This volume documents the final days of that period, as writers, artists, and thinkers who were able left Paris one by one before the Nazis marched in.
It is so worth reading this book to be introduced to Brassai, Hilaire Hiler, Jean Carteret, Lawrence Durrell, Waldo Frank, Sir Richard Burton, Carlos Suares, and dozens of other fascinating people Nin mentions or meets.
Anaïs Nin’s diaries are essentials in my collection. They are treasures. I read them over and over, I turn to them when I feel lost, when I have questions, when I second guess myself as a writer. Anaïs and her words are vital to my existence.
Destructiveness is a sign of impotence." "A human writer realizes that other human beings may be victims like himself and he should write with them against the aggressor, not become one.""Women will be the last one on earth to learn independence, to find strength in herself." "As a writer I believe language has power." poetic illumination of life = love of life, lonely in a world of ideas, sadism = judgement of others"Conflict between my feminine self who wants to live in a man-ruled world, in harmony with men, and the creator in me capable of creating a world of my own and a rhythm of my own which I can't find anyone to share." (62)"adventure, expansion, fever, fantasy, grandeur" sail freely in the realm of the dream"creation is taking sides" (63)art risks whimsicality"In America, I can see, it is all survival of the tough.
"By being alive I mean living out of all the cells all the parts of one's self."My two worlds intersect: my love for Anais and for Django united on page 105 of this volume.
...in the back of the house stood Django gypsy cart.
"I was listening to Chet Baker before I stumbled on this passage but I quickly changed the music to Django and now bliss!!!"I cannot spend a day with empty friends without a sense of waste." 211"Larry began to look over the volumes I took out of the tin box.
Gonzalo came to the houseboat and exploded:"I will kill myself if I have to live in a fascist world.
A favorite author, if you like memoir, this woman had the mind of a poet...she is said to have embellished some things, or lied outright in some of her diaries...but perspective...is everything, and no one can take away a persons belief and one's belief is one's reality, now, isn't it?
and i just adored her memoirs, as a young woman.
Anais was/is a terrifying gal in her scathing honesty at times, and while her story is not so extraordinary, it is a revelation,to some of us still.
When I ordered this book I thought it was the Unexpurgated Diary, with all the eroticism and sensual adventures of Anais.
Henry Miller is different from the time of love affair with Anais, he grew older, became calmer, didn't search for cunts so badly, started to be interested in Buddhism.
Anais saw in Gonzalo a person she could help, a person she could save and it was in her nature to babysit assholes and occasionally fall in love with them.
This book left me with a desire to purchase the Unexpurgated diary and read the most interesting part of Anais' writing - the eroticism.
Found the first two volumes in a box from the college days.
Re-reading has been a total pleasure.
If you aren't familiar with Ms. Nin, here my lazy way to comment: Wikipedia entry-- "Anaïs Nin's most important works, in the judgment of both herself and scholars, are her diaries or journals.
Nin was acquainted, often quite intimately, with a number of prominent authors, artists, psychoanalysts, and other figures, and wrote of them often, especially Otto Rank.
Moreover, as a female author describing a primarily masculine constellation of celebrities, Nin's journals have acquired importance as a counterbalancing perspective."
On so many instances, it was like reading my own thoughts on the page.I loved the thoughts, the questions, the self-diggings, the observations, and the words and sentences that carried those to the page ...Does this mean that an Iranian woman is having the same thoughts and concerns of a western woman but half a century later?
or do western women still have the same thoughts and concerns today as Nin's, feeling connected to her diary as strong as before, which will lead to the idea that literature or human concerns move beyond times ...
My only beef is that it drug a little in the third quarter, but goddamn, does it end strong in the last section. Whoever edited this so that it would end in the beginning of WW2 in an emaciated Paris was brilliant. As you draw closer and closer to the end, you get this sense of decay and Anais trying to orient herself in relation to this decay. It's incredibly moving.As always, the book itself brims with passages begging to be quoted. Fantastic.
in all honesty, i loved this volume more than the first volume. even though it took me longer to read. the coming world war, the rise of facism, the spanish civil war, nin's houseboat, her maid the mouse....it was all mesmerizing. i get lost in Nin's language, sometimes not caring what is going on....i just love what she had to say. it is like an early liz phair song, like "Dance of the 7 veils"....sometimes i have no idea what the meaning is, i only know it made me feel something.
Inégal. Toujours intéressant de constater que la majorité des personnalités artistiques connues de leur temps n'étaient que des êtres humains comme les autres, avec trés souvent des difficultés beaucoup plus grandes à vivre la vie que l'humble commun des mortels. Il en ressort que la majorité de leur production artistique, accouchée à coup de psychotropes, n'est que verbiage futile et au fond expression de mals-êtres puérils.. M'aura tout de même donné envie de lire Proust
