https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/89281.Why_People_Believe_Weird_Things
They don't take into account that a lot of the world can't get that much clean drinking water in a day and they still manage to live to a ripe old age.
They also don't take into account it was an eighties marketing campaign* by Nestle launching their bottled water that started it.
(view spoiler)[I found this book the same time as I was sent as a recommendation in a friend request from a sock puppet account, the anti-Semitic conspiracy theorist author Texe Marrs's Conspiracy of the Six-Pointed Star: Eye-Opening Revelations and Forbidden Knowledge about Israel, the Jews, Zionism, and the Rothschilds.
Like many people, I could hardly believe my eyes when Donald Trump, in the wake of the Orlando shooting, actually went as far as to insinuate that President Obama could in some way have been complicit in causing this appalling hate crime and act of terrorism.
Unlike Obama, he has an obvious reason for wanting events like Orlando to happen: they help his campaign, which is largely fuelled by polarizing narratives of "us" against "them".
All in all, he behaved pretty much exactly the way he'd have behaved if he had in fact been behind it.Well, I'm not saying Trump was the guy behind Omar Mateen.
Shermer is a good storyteller and his discussions of subjects including the alien abduction phenomenon, the personality cult of Ayn Rand, and the tactics “creation scientists” use to try to discredit the theory of evolution make for compelling reading.Perhaps most importantly, Shermer eloquently argues that being a skeptic is not the same thing as being a cynic.
In addition, a maintaining a healthy skepticism can go a long way towards preserving both one’s sanity and one’s cash in the alternative spiritual realm.
Μέσα στο βιβλίο σας περιμένουν κάποιες απαντήσεις, αλλά ταυτόχρονα και πολλές περιγραφές θεωριών που πιστεύουν μεγάλες ομάδες ανθρώπων (για να σκεφτείτε ότι τελικά κάποιοι άνθρωποι είναι τελείως θεότρελοι).
Δυστυχώς το βιβλίο είναι σχετικά παλιό και δεν περιλαμβάνει τις δυο σύγχρονες τάσεις: τη θεωρία της επίπεδης Γης (έτσι, για να γελάσουμε λίγο με τα επιχειρήματά τους - ή να κλάψουμε με το ρόλο που επιτελούν οι συνάδελφοι εκπαιδευτικοί ανά τον κόσμο) και την αντι-εμβολιαστική καμπάνια, που δυστυχώς γίνεται μάστιγα σε όλο και περισσότερα μέρη του κόσμου, την Ελλάδα συμπεριλαμβανομένης με τις Μανούλες του fb και άλλους παρόμοιους τιτανοτεράστιους οργανισμούς να πρωτοστατούν...
(σε κάποιο τουίτ το διάβασα αλλά δεν θυμάμαι από ποιον!!)
(Why we feel compelled to find meaning in everything continues to puzzle me.) Until about four hundred years ago, when the process of science gave us a method to determine the difference between patterns that are real and those that are mere illusion, the tautologies myth and religion, (a tautology) explained the relationship of man to the universe.
Shermer cites several examples of superstition and magical thinking among indigenous peoples to support his hypothesis.
Shermer argues the best "regulator" of the Belief Module is science.
Μέντιουμ, ύπνωση, επιθανάτιες εμπειρίες, απαγωγές από εξωγήινους (ο αγαπημένος μου Neil deGrasse Tyson προτείνει να τους κλέψεις ένα τασάκι όταν δε βλέπουν και να το φέρεις στη γη για μελέτη), αρνητές της εξέλιξης και του Ολοκαυτώματος. Γιατί υπάρχουν εν έτει 2018 (το βιβλίο το 2002 κυκλοφόρησε αλλά δε νομίζω ότι είναι λιγότερο επίκαιρο στις μέρες μας) που η επιστήμη κυριαρχεί, ποια ανθρώπινα χαρακτηριστικά εκμεταλλεύονται σαμάνοι, αστρολόγοι και ξεματιάστρες και πώς μπορούμε να αμυνθούμε. Ενδιαφέρον, σαφές και καθόλου κουραστικό. 4*
But it wasn’t the first book I’d read on this subject and so that in itself gave the book a bit of a struggle ahead of itself.Brookmyre’s latest is also on pretty much the same subject, particularly at the start of this one, but the Brookmyre is a much better book – but then, it is a Brookmyre, even if not a terribly funny Brookmyre.
Reading this book actually made me reconsider just how good Brookmyre’s last book actually was.There was an odd bit towards the end of this one about the Holocaust – and I really struggled with that being in this book.
I listened to the original audio from '98.Shermer is the founder of The Skeptics Society and Editor in Chief of its magazine Skeptic.
He knows his stuff.
These are all interesting and covers Shermer's experiences with all of them.
My primary trouble with this book is the title.
With that title, I expected more psychology and less logic.
You all know I'm a huge proponent of reviewing what was written, not what one wanted to read...
but 'Why' is in the title.
While the 'what' is interesting, I was promised 'why', and answers are in too short of supply.
I have read many of Shermer's articles for Skeptics Magazine but this was the first book by him that I've read.
However he also gives specific examples of pseudo-science and outright erroneous thinking including Holocaust denial, aliens abductions and Creationism.
While I enjoyed it, I felt some of this material would have been better in a separate book, especially the chapters on Ayn Rand and objectivism.
They appeared to have been Skeptic Magazines essays that were glued together and, in fact, Shermer pretty much admits that in the foreword.
Nonetheless, there was some valuable information throughout the book and I recommend it as a essential primer on the difference between science and pseudo-science.
However, the book seems to ramble on a bit and takes on the feel of the author's personal musings instead of objective examination of the material.
This is Shermer's personal book review of Tipler's physics work.
Also, one other gripe; Shermer seems to portray the personal idea that objective science is good and that theories are subject to change over time-"facts are data".
However, in my opinion he strayed away too much from these interesting topics and went into personal musings about science instead.
Anyway, I can see many people giving negative reviews of this book simply because they do not like Shermer's relativistic, hard-science stand.
una din cheile decenței umane, sociale și civice.” Lucrarea lui Michael Shermer este într-adevăr o pledoarie în favoarea rațiunii, cu atît mai mult cu cît știe că oamenii sînt greu de zdruncinat din convingerile lor, și dă ca exemplu o întîmplare trăită de el însuși: invitat la o experiență de percepție extrasenzorială, a fost mai apoi abordat de o femeie care, identificîndu-l drept sceptic, l-a întrebat cum îşi explică totuşi coincidențele de tipul prietenei care sună exact în momentul în care te-ai gîndit la ea, și pe care ea le consideră dovezi irefutabile de comunicare paranormală.
When we accept a pattern as genuine, but it isn't, we are committing a Type 1 error or false positive.
Shermer goes into detail about 25 fallacies that encourage people to believe weird things, including a whole slew of logical and psychological problems that lead inevitably to false conclusions.
This may be more a balm than a solution, given that people are going to bend the facts to better fit their a priori beliefs anyway.All of this leads me to the fascinating subject of fraud which I would have loved to see touched on in this book.
There have been enough positive reviews of this book that I'm sure it won't hurt the author's self-esteem if I say this: This book is dumb.
It was on my to-read list forever, so maybe my expectations were a little high.
But fair warning to anyone planning to read this, it's not what you think it is.
It doesn't even address the question in the title directly until a final chapter, which I gather was added after the first edition was published.If you want to read about the history of holocaust denial, that's in here.
Or the history of the legal challenge to teaching evolution in schools, that's here.
not what I expected.
In this book, an update of an earlier version, with a foreword by Stephen Jay Gould, he takes on a number of worthy targets, including:* believers in the paranormal and extra-sensory perception (ESP)* near-death experiences and those who channel "past lives"* alien abductions* witch-hunting and the recovered memory movement* Ayn Rand and the cult of objectivism* anti-evolutionism and "creation science"* holocaust deniers and other pseudohistorians* scientific "proofs" for the existence of God* assorted conspiracy theories pertaining to aliens and coverupsThe chapters containing the repudiation of these various instances of pseudoscience and pseudohistory form the core of the book.
Author and prominent skeptic Michael Shermer begins with a recollection of his own conversion from evangelical Christian to skeptic, and generalizes from his personal experiences in an overview of the difference between science and pseudoscience/superstition starring the 25 Fallacies That Lead Us To Believe Weird Things, a somewhat more technically oriented version of Sagan’s famous Baloney Detection Kit.Shermer briefly discusses several of the usual suspects in pseudoscience—ESP, alien abductions and medieval witch hunts—and devotes considerable attention to two topics of current importance: creationism and historical revisionism, the latter with special emphasis on Holocaust denial.
Description: In this age of supposed scientific enlightenment, many people still believe in mind reading, past-life regression theory, New Age hokum, and alien abduction.
In an entirely new chapter, "Why Smart People Believe in Weird Things," Michael Shermer takes on science luminaries like physicist Frank Tippler and others, who hide their spiritual beliefs behind the trappings of science.Shermer, science historian and true crusader, also reveals the more dangerous side of such illogical thinking, including Holocaust denial, the recovered-memory movement, the satanic ritual abuse scare, and other modern crazes.
Why People Believe Strange Things is an eye-opening resource for the most gullible among us and those who want to protect them.
People prefer the comforting pseudo-scientific answers to these questions than the cold, brutal logic of rationality.Now, if the author concludes that the above reasons are why people believe in weird things, what is the point in writing another 270-odd pages refuting creationism, holocaust denial, the cult of Ayn Rand etc by appealing to scientific reason?
By his own admission, science is cold and brutal and in contrast, most people want simple, comforting answers to our existential questions.
To me it looks as though I can sum up the book in one sentence that ' people believe in weird things because they are unscientific and irrational'.
This is a good book and is probably worth your time, but I hoped for more, that more being subjects that Shermer leaves out.
The weird things covered are the ravings of Edgar Casey and his followers, near-death experiences, alien encounters, literal witch hunts, Ayn Rand and the cult of Objectivism, Intelligent Design, Holocaust denial, and those who claim that physics prove the existence of one god or another.
There is a lot he does not examine.I might be less inclined to make an issue of this, but the longest sections in the book are about Intelligent Design and Holocaust denial, about 125 of the 278 pages, nearly half the book.
This book helped me understand why there are so many people in the world that believe creationism, ESP, ghosts, UFOs, and other supernatural phenomena, and most importantly, why normal intelligent people will believe these weird ideas. After this book and Shermer's subsequent books I began to solidify my scientific worldview, and why I only accept naturalistic explanations. I became a skeptic and learned to truly question everything, but still hold on to provisional truths in science because of my new found respect and understanding for the scientific process.
He led off early in the book critiquing people's beliefs, but not only those of 'true believers' but also of people who has allowed their skepticism to grow to unruly proportions, requiring exorbitant proof of everything.
He was spot on in identifying libertarianism as a cult of personality.
It is a process for systematically collectingand recording data about the physical world, then categorizing and studyingthe collected data in an effort to infer the principles of nature that bestexplain the observed phenomena." Next, the scientific method is discussed,beginning with the collection of "facts," the data of the world.
He explains the methodology of science and skepticism and then spends each chapter debunking a particular "weird" belief, pointing out how various inputs and desires can cause thinking to "go wrong," leaving popular deception as the logical output.I enjoyed the book quite a bit, and bought into Shermer's arguments on the whole--but I don't quite understand why he chose to include the weird beliefs he did.
Given that his primary thesis is that skepticism is a valid protection against harmful and manipulative ideologies, it's odd to me that he chose to include basically innocuous beliefs like ESP and alien abductions alongside the more seriously harmful young earth creationism, Holocaust denial, and Ayn Rand's objectivist philosophy.
A lot of it is somewhat depressing (it would have pleased me more to hear about how culture is moving away from pseudoscience, even if that's not happening) or frustrating (the entire section on the Holocaust deniers), but why people believe weird things - and why they are unwilling to change thier belief system even when it doesn't make logical sense and/or is not factual - is in my experience a somewhat depressing and frustrating topic.
This is definately a book that I would reccomend.
(Though whether I would reccomend it over his subsequent books, such as The Believing Brain, remains to be seen.
This is a starter book for anti-supernatural beliefs. Talks a tiny bit about the wide range of types of beliefs, the arguments they use for them, the reasons the author thinks they are wrong, and some personal stories thrown in there too. All in all, not a bad book. Just doesn't really hold its own against the heavier works put out by the Daniel Dennett, Richard Dawkins, Christopher Hitchens, and the like. My issue with this book is that I read it *after* those others.
I picked up this book a few years ago, but just started reading it. I wanted a better understanding of how people can believe in certain things such as creation-science, but then deny other phenomena such as climate change. The author does a good job discussing how cults gain popularity, and how pseudoscience and pseudo-history are perpetrated. In light of today's hype of "alternative facts", and fake news, this book underscores the ever-growing importance of critical thinking.
Rather, he underlines (several times) that religion and faith have nothing to do with science and reason, and that one can happily enjoy both logic and faith.The first section of the book is a good nutshell introduction to logical and scientific reasoning, with some tidbits of the history of scientific inquiry thrown in.The second section deals with creationism, or more specifically, "creation science." Shermer makes another big point that he doesn't have any bones to pick with creation beliefs.
His problem is with "creation scientists," those who purport to use science and the scientific method to position their religious beliefs in the scientific community.The third section of the book deals with Holocaust deniers.
Sadly a whole book of Shermer so far hasn't been as astute and to the point as his columns generally are.
The basic point can be summed up in one sentence though: "Smart people believe weird things because they are skilled at defending beliefs they arrived at for non-smart reasons" (p.
Whereas the first topics are quite interesting in themselves, Shermer lost me with the Holocaust deniers.
Anyway, besides this fascinating plunge into ultra-right thinking, I didn't get much out of this book that I didn't know before.
As much as I liked this book, I can't give it a full 5 star review because it is too dated. Yes, 'holocaust denial' folks are pretty much a fringe idiot band, but that was a long time ago comparatively speaking. There is nothing about global warming whatsoever. Nor is there anything about "Scientology". This is not to say this book is not worthwhile. It is. I'm afraid it is difficult to keep up with the various crackpot things with our ratings driven media, but i would enjoy an updated version of this book very much.
“Why People Believe Weird Things” by Michael Shermer is a primer on skepticism, written by an author whose once strong religious faith, gave way to down right dubitation. Shermer does his best to explain why people have the propensity to believe in things that cannot be proven (alien abductions, ghosts), and others that can be proven but are controversial such as holocaust denial, repressed memories, and psychic powers. His third chapter “How Thinking Goes Wrong,” points out 25 ways in which th
“Why People Believe Weird Things” by Michael Shermer is a primer on skepticism, written by an author whose once strong religious faith, gave way to down right dubitation.
Shermer does his best to explain why people have the propensity to believe in things that cannot be proven (alien abductions, ghosts), and others that can be proven but are controversial such as holocaust denial, repressed memories, and psychic powers.
I think those topics are rooted in something else entirely different from beliefs in ghosts and religion, so he goes at them with a different approach.
Why People Believe Weird Things is a great first book for exploring the basics of critical thinking and gives one a chance to see real life examples of how faulty reasoning can lead one to fallacious conclusions.
And yet, time and again, I found myself incapable of understanding and applying what I had read; found conflicting answers in books on the same topic and I saw this as a reflection of my own short comings and inability to grasp the concepts not as a limitation of the theories themselves.This first foray into skepticism and critical thinking taught me that there is no understanding in magic, no answers to my love life in the alignment of stars.
Una de sus premisas en este libro es el no reírse ni ridiculizar las creencias por absurdas que suenen, sino que tratar de entender por qué gente normal las cree.Uno de los capítulos que más me gustó fue el de "por qué la gente inteligente cree en cosas raras", donde muestras casos de muchos científicos, intelectuales, PhDs, etc, ejemplificando cómo algunos de ellos defienden creencias inexplicables científicamente hablando, lo cual va atribuyendo a múltiples factores que explica, resumiendo, como "smart people believe weird things because they are skilled at defending beliefs they arrived at for non-smart reasons (...) Smart people, because they are more intelligent and better educated, are better able to give intellectual reasons justifying their beliefs that they arrived at for nonintellectual reasons."Y esas creencias pueden ocurrir por temas de contexto, edad, CI, nivel de educación, religiosidad de la familia e incluso género: "In fact, in the same study that found more women than men believe in precognition, it turned out that more men than women believe in Big Foot and the Loch Ness monster.
