https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/312730.Crisis_of_European_Sciences_and_Transcendental_Phenomenology
A philosopher's desperate play for relevance in 1935/36.Edmund Husserl (1859-1938) is regarded as the founder of (philosophical) phenomenology, an extremely influential development of modern philosophy which tries to capture the nature of the Subject through a combination of close description and transcendental theorizing.
Compare, for example, the physicist's phenomenology with Husserl's, for whom phenomenology was “the science of the essence of consciousness.” But all of them try to provide as minimally a theory laden description of "reality" as possible, at least in principle.The phenomenologist reveals himself in his choice of fundamental phenomenon - in the near infinitude of phenomena, where does he focus his eye first, which is the key he uses to unlock the door of "reality"?
on the other, i do like to read philosophy texts- mostly 'continental', mostly 'phenomenology', so far often on rather than by the big names, Husserl, Heidegger, Sartre, Merleau-Ponty...
perhaps it is having read so much phenomenology, so much of the 'epoche', so much on his ideas, so much that i read this in a 'literary' manner and not directly as a 'logical' text, and maybe this last great work by the man is actually most accessible of all his work...
it is not surprising 'phenomenology' became such a major 'style' of thought in continental philosophy of the 20th century...
Critically important book in the foundation of phenomenology.
It is hardly hyperbole that Husserl recognized the profound crisis of European sciences.
However, it is even more profound as to why he sees phenomenology as a method for extricating said sciences from their own ridicule.Historically speaking, it is also profound that while many may have taken Husserl's advice and built on methods of phenomenology, the sciences themselves have become more abstracted in their searches for meaning and interpretation.
They have developed models of consistency, but their functionality depends, almost exclusively, on hypotheses which, like the evanescent Higgs-Boson particle, seem as elusive as 19th century aether.
Although it's certainly an important work it's probably better to know about than to have read. Husserl is more of a thinker than a writer. But, hey, if people see it on your coffee table they'll think that you're smart.
Husserl's writing has a way of oscillating between lucidity and near-incomprehensibility, often multiple times within a single paragraph.
There's no way around it; this guy is hard to read.
Husserl is most compelling with his historical analysis of the positive sciences as a misguided offshoot of philosophy.
For Husserl, philosophy began to lose its way during the Renaissance with the Galilean mathematical idealization of natural phenomenon.
From Descartes to Hume and later Kant, Husserl believed that philosophy continued to meander further from the unclaimed truth of the transcendental subjective experience and towards a scientific empiricism and a rationalist proto-scientific experience of the world.
This is probably the most accessible book Husserl published.
He lays out pretty clearly, I thought, what phenomenology is and isn't (not an empirical psychology, most definitely).
See, most obviously, Husserl's chief apostate Heidegger.
Husserl stands in an interesting relation to this strand of counter-Enlightenment thinking.
On the one hand, he never tired of proclaiming that phenomenology was a rigorous science that would provide an ultimate, rational foundation for all knowledge.
Phenomenology ultimately became a project to restore a certain dignity to being, against the prevailing notion that only what can be quantified and manipulated is real.
Superb. Sometimes very hard to follow, sometimes clear as day. Worth every minute spent.
Husserl's use of this world is meant to open a realm of original phenomenological analyses that would ground all of the positive sciences, as well as philosophy, to understand them in their most basic structures.
All objective sciences for Husserl are no more than theoretical superstructures grounded on the life world, and are, strictly speaking, unable to be experienced rigorously, because they are transcendental epistemological frameworks instead of immediate phenomena.
Why read those dead ancient authors when you can just read textbook and listen to lecture? Because it is important to read original text. Maybe this book will answer why it is important to read original text.
Like Descartes' Meditations, Husserl's attempt to establish a fundamental ground for philosophy is a glorious failure, well worth the read both as a precursor to Heidegger, Sartre and Merleau Ponty and as the last great attempt to establish a foundation for scienctific investigation.
This is one of the most accesible books by Edmund Husserl (Maybe because Eugene Fink, who is known for expressing himself clearly, was kind of a collaborator?)With usual detail, Husserl shows why the transcendental reduction is a necessity, and not just an optional tool, for seeing reality unconditioned and not pre-given. Unfortunately Husserl didn't complete the book. He passed away before it was finnished. Still, this book is one of the cornerstones of transcendental phenomenolgy.(This was my second reading, and it was well worth it)
«Uma arte não é um método pronto para fazer algo acabado, mas simultaneamente, um método de melhorar sempre o seu método.» Husserl, §9, in A crise das ciências europeias e a fenomenologia transcendental
The translation by my former professor is a very clear and enlightening read.
Esta dialéctica del obstáculo y el límite, respecto del poder de la mente por un lado y el poder político por otro, fue bien comprendida por la fenomenología de la subjetividad que (en contraste con la corriente Heideggeriana) reconoció al nazismo, y por ende al Estado capitalista, como el verdadero límite del progreso histórico.
Desde Husserl a Sartre hallamos los esfuerzos principales para transformar los límites en inicios, y en muchos modos Foucault siguió esta misma línea.
Ver Edmund Husserl, Crisis of Europeans Sciences and Trascendental Phenomenology, trad.
David Carr (Evanston, Ill.: Northwestern University Press, 1970); Jean-Paul Sartre, Crituque of Dialectical Reason, trad.

Oh and even the Papuans have a philosophy, or a general care in the world? These fucking retard Europeans think that the Greeks invented this and that and the other thing, and that Europe is some sort of intellectual world-conquest operation. Fuck right off! I dissent from all Eurocentric, Eurotrash, disco-disco-dance-dance!
This book is Edmund Husserl's last presentation of his transcendental phenomenology. It states the tenets of phenomenology without going into the technical details. The book introduces the motivation, doctrine, methods, and conclusion of phenomenology as founded by Edmund Husserl himself. It is highly recommended for those who are interested in continental philosophy.
Husserl explores phenomenology via the context of history and the advent of objectivism--from the origins of geometry to Kant's epistemology. Fairly accessible as far as these things go, and easier on the eye than 'Ideas'. Not exactly coffee table material but I don't own a coffee table.
Fundamental para o entendimento da proposta de Fenomenologia por Husserl.
An important book, and critique of totalitarian science.
