https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/266463.Three_Stories_and_Ten_Poems
With the three stories you can see the foundation of a master. With the ten poems...well he's no Wilfred Owen.
The cool experience with these is seeing embryonic examples of motifs that would recur throughout Hemingway’s career: the incompetence of husbands and fathers, discomfort within zones of moral or social ambiguity, and the omission of major external plot points to place emphasis on the internal and the immediate.Out of Season is about the circumstances of a would-be fisherman accidentally hiring the village drunk as a guide for an outing that ultimately doesn’t ever commence, making it more of a mood diorama than a story, but that’s fine.My Old Man is horse track story that gets morose and blunted by the end, with the child protagonist’s level of insight more unclear than unreliable, which would be fine if it read like it was told by the same boy later on rather than like the reflections of an adult.
Painful reading.
Personally,I think I enjoyed it more as I started out reading 'a movable feast' and would cut out and read whatever Hemingway had gotten published as it was published.
I got some backstory that way.
"Out of Season" I think, is rather more interesting (and rather darker) if you have some context and background.
"inaccrochable" isn't the word I'd use, but who am I to argue with Stein?
they give him all of six sentences and manage to use several of those to talk about his suicide in a way that I felt was neither respectful nor interesting.
Three Stories and Ten Poems was published in 1923 in a limited edition of 300 by a boutique, Paris-based publisher. It was Hemingway’s first significant thrust into the literary world. There was enough stylistic creativity in the work (particularly with the short story “Out of Season”) to earn the attention of several influential American critics, setting the stage for the positive reception of The Sun Also Rises in 1926.
An interesting read of his first published book. His poems are raw. His prose is good. At 58 pages, it's a very quick read.
