https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/152990.A_Book_of_Mediterranean_Food
So, in all actuality, this is a book of FRENCH food, with a few Mediterranean dishes sprinkled in for some variety! That's false advertisement!! I did like the writing style though, and there were some very interesting recipes there ..
Elizabeth David was one of the few cookbook authors who also knew how to tell a good story so searching for the perfect dish may take you a bit longer as you get caught up in the joy she felt with regards to good food and it's preparation.
The kitchen at once became a place of heart, creativity, and joy.
I still credit her with the wonderful sense of adventure I feel standing over a hot stove and the sense of celebration as I sit down to share in a meal and good stories with friends.
"Stir steadily but not like a maniac."
Passionate, eloquent stories of delicious food, culture, history. Both precise and poetic. I adored this.
This is one of those books that makes you laugh and makes you want rush off to the kitchen and cook. It stirs the soul and stirs the appetite.
I learned about Elizabeth David and her work because my husband is really into the NYRB Classics series and I'm really into books about cooking and food. He bought me Summer Cooking first; A Book of Mediterranean Food was a welcome second gift. Elizabeth David's emphasis on easy recipes with simple, excellent, seasonal ingredients and her rejection of the post-war industrialized foods with a long shelf-life make her the predecessor of contemporary writers like Michael Pollan and Mark Bittman.
I am not sure if this is the same edition I have, which is divided into two books. The first section is Mediterranean food and the second focuses on French food. It is the 1968 edition and it contains excerpts from various writers about their food experiences and of course Ms. David's pithy prose and stories that go along with many of the dishes. Those with no cooking experience may find the recipes a little loose, but I enjoy the freedom of measuring with a "teacup".
Published in 1950, this was Elizabeth David's first book. I have a first edition--it is my most prized book in my personal library.In this and all her subsequent books, Elizabeth David drew me in with her vivid descriptions of food and cooking from her upbringing and travels. Her wry observations and sensible guidance in the kitchen set her apart as a food writer in 1950s England, and she is now regarded worldwide as a pioneer in food writing.
This was interesting mainly for the world it portrays of much more limited access to all sorts of foods that we can now buy year-round from the corner grocery store. We're so spoiled in comparison. (And still I seem to spend most of my time eating frozen burritos. So sad.)
While I'm not going to use such recipes as "Stuffing for a Whole Cooked Sheep" and it's arranged archaically and prosily for a *cookbook* it's really interesting. I like it and it gives me good ideas for cooking!
While I'm not going to use such recipes as "Stuffing for a Whole Cooked Sheep" and it's arranged archaically and prosily for a *cookbook* it's really interesting. I like it and it gives me good ideas for cooking!
While I'm not going to use such recipes as "Stuffing for a Whole Cooked Sheep" and it's arranged archaically and prosily for a *cookbook* it's really interesting. I like it and it gives me good ideas for cooking!
A wonderful book to read, but not a //modern cookbook//. You need to know how to cook for it to be any use.
can't be without it
yummers.
A very interesting insight into how cookbook writing has changed in the last 50 years. More an anthology of her favourite food writing with recipes but interesting all the same.
Interesting to look at due to it's impact. So I found it a good idea book. Layout old fashioned and put me off a little.
Again a delight, you can't help feeling hungry when reading it!
