https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/174845.Life_Together
You'd think I would have learned its lessons in the first three readings, but I again found myself deeply challenged about my own behavior in Christian community.
This one is worth coming back to again and again.------4/1/07 I re-read this book for the class I took on Bonhoeffer and found it even more enjoyable this time than the first couple of times.
Bonhoeffer has some great practical advice about living in Christian community, as well as some challenging theological perspectives.
Even so, I highly recommend this challenging and thought-provoking book.
In Life Together Bonhoeffer gives us penetrating definitions of human and spiritual love, just as he outlined the distinction between cheap and costly grace in The Cost of Discipleship.
And Bonhoeffer doesn’t seem to be ‘judging the other’ so much as speaking to the self: this is what you must do to love spiritually and not as a mere human.
He goes on to describe Christian communal prayer, ministry, reading of Scripture, proclaiming, meditation, and individual prayer, concluding with one of the best rationales of one-on-one confession I’ve yet heard.
Not so good as the The Cost of Discipleship, but certainly a Christian mainstay and well worth reading.
Because of my husband's job in the Navy, we move around a good bit and it was so fun to look at Life Together through the lens of every church we've been a part of and see the strengths of each congregation.This would also be an excellent read for any head of a body - whether that's a small family unit of marriage and family, a pastor, a Sunday school teacher, the head of a ministry team.One of the richest books I've read in a long time.
Whenever I read how-to books, I "skip to end" the consider the actual bio of the person.
This book is essentially "German engineering for Christian communities." A theologically-rooted how-to manual for living life with other Christians, following a very precise order.
It is highly prescriptive and slightly antiquated, with many many "musts" and "shoulds." But in Bonhoeffer's words, "It's not legalism, it's fidelity and orderliness." The passages on doing the "day with others" and "the day alone" give me pause: the schedule seems indeed a product of the 30s-50s, Germany, from a male perspective; lots of time for Orderly Pursuit of Structured Things (reading scripture, singing hymns, praying together, etc.), and it makes me evaluate my own chaotic household of boisterous kids, and I wonder where Bonhoeffer would find room for Playing Loudly With Preschoolers.
I rarely give five stars to anything, but this book definitely deserves it. An excellent look at Christian community and the Christian life, this is full of thoughts that everyone who follows the Way needs to hear. Mr. Bonhoeffer may be long gone from this world, but his words still impact lives; they sure did mine!
The book is about living life together in Christian community.
It is amazing, to me, to know that he wrote this book while living in a concentration camp, yet he writes with a peace that can only come from God.Chapter 1: Community - talks about the importance of the Christian community and how it is not only an essential but a tremendous blessing to our lives.
Bonhoeffer explains how even when we live in community, we still need times of solitude, prayer, silence, meditation and intercession.
He really addresses how important it is to live in community.
I can think of few other books that will be a help in marriage, humble you in relationships, increase your love for the church and your appreciation of the grace of community like Bonhoeffer's short, but epic, reflection.
Read 2012: Most likely this will be my favorite book of 2012.
Chapter 1: Communitythe Word of God, the gospel, grounds community and creates it.
Chapter 4: MinistryOfficial word ministry most important.
What I'd really like to do is assign this as reading for anyone who was engaged, thinking about starting small groups, needed encouragement, tips, or grounds for family worship, wanted to find out how to do private devotions.
1. There is value in disillusionment with fellow Christians so to avoid seeing fellowship as an "extraordinary social experience."2.
"God has willed that we should seek and find His living Word in the witness of a brother, in the mouth of a man."3.
"The Psalter is the vicarious prayer of Christ for His church...the new Humanity of Christ, the Body continues to pray His prayer...that is why the prayer of the Psalms belongs...to the fellowship."4.
"Only in the infiniteness of [Scripture's] inner relationships, in the connection of Old and New Testaments...will the full witness to Jesus Christ the Lord be perceived."5.
What an amazing little book.
I believe every Christian should read this at least once if not every year.
It is definitely a must read."A Christian fellowship lives and exists by the intercession of its members for one another, or it collapses.
His face, that hitherto may have been strange and intolerable to me, is transformed in intercession into the countenance of a brother for whom Christ died, the face of a forgiven sinner.
To make intercession means to grant our brother the same right that we have received, namely, to stand before Christ and share in His mercy." - p.
So he becomes, first an accuser of his brethren, then an accuser of God, and finally the despairing accuser of himself." (p17-18)- - - - Ch.2 - The Day with Others.“The Fellowship of the Table”“Ever since Jesus Christ sat at table with his disciples, the table fellowship of his community has been blessed by his presence.” (p56)“The Scriptures speak of three kinds of table fellowship that Jesus keeps with his own: daily fellowship at table, the table fellowship of the Lord;s Supper, and the final table fellowship in the kingdom of God.” (p56)“The fellowship of the table teaches Christians that here they still eat the perishable bread of the earthly pilgrimage.
Really, really good stuff here. At times it was a little over my head and I wished he'd had some more specific instructions regarding some issues and situations, and at other times I was like, whoa, way too specific! But for the most part, it was just solid theology about how Christians should be living with and supporting each other.
So many wonderful gems in this book. Love this book so much!
I have now read this book three times, and I continue to benefit from the practical wisdom contained in it. I don't give out five star ratings very often, but this one deserves it. Bonhoeffer's directions for life in Christian community, including family life, are biblical and convicting. I don't necessarily endorse Bonhoeffer's theology as a whole or his other writings (I understand that he was Neo-Orthodox, so do be aware of that influence), but I do recommend this book. I will likely re-read this book again in the future.
This is an excellent book about what it means to live in Biblical community. There is an abundance of wisdom in this work that can be applied in any context of community. At the same time, there is also an abundance of dogmatic prescriptions of how to go about every aspect of devotional life, at a level that is obviously excessive. It is important to read with discernment, and when recommending the book to others, to be wise in the maturity of the one to whom you recommend it.
This is one of the most encouraging, eye-opening books I have read during my christian walk. It was such an encouragement and very convicting, especially the Ministry chapter. A must read for every christian!
The last chapter is worth a reread every month as a devotional, especially before partaking in the Lord's Supper. He who conceals his sins does not prosper, but whoever confesses and renounces them finds mercy Pr.28;13
Solid teaching!I zipped through this & am now rereading each morning as part of my devotions.
A remarkable journey through life in the community, its necessity, and its supreme need for the individual. I will re-read this book next year.
The book focuses on five key elements of the life together following Jesus: being in community with others, daily worship and devotions with others, personal spiritually, walking our calling with God, and confessing sins and living in forgiveness.
Afterwards, the individual is to come back into the greater community, bringing with them the “blessing of his aloneness” while, at the same time, receiving “anew the blessing of the fellowship” (pg 89).Walking out our calling with God through ministry is the fourth element that Bonhoeffer tackles.
Furthermore, Bonhoeffer calls people forward to the ministry of serving others while living a life of forgiveness and confession.
This passage reminds me to pray for my brothers around the world, it is also a comfort to me in my place as second class member of my church:"So between the death of Christ and the Last Day it is only by a gracious anticipation of the last things that Christians are privileged to live in visible fellowship with other Christians.
Therefore, the Christian needs another Christian who speaks God's Word to him.
The Christ in his own heart is weaker than the Christ in the word of his brother; his own heart is uncertain, his brother's is sure.And that also clarifies the goal of all Christian community: they meet one another as bringers of the message of salvation.
While in this living and work situation, he continued to write and Life Together is one of the works that grew out of this experience.Bonhoeffer’s theology is decidedly Christocentric in nature, so for those of us who do not subscribe to this type of exegesis, the book may initially be off-putting, however, his thoughtful treatment of what it requires from each individual to live out Christian-based communal life in the healthiest possible manner is strong, consistent, biblical and compassionate.
12)Bonhoeffer was arrested in April of 1943 and placed in a military prison where he continued to minister.
He is quite specific in suggesting how families should live, not only saying that they should sing but what they should sing (first Reformation chorales, then hymns of the Bohemian Brethren, then hymns of the ancient church).And none of this harmony stuff.
I wonder if Bonhoeffer coined that phrase?I borrowed "Life Together" from our church library after our pastor mentioned it in sermons two weeks in a row.
(He is preaching a series on Christian community.) If it were my own book, it would have a lot of highlighted passages after one reading.
However, there is so much wisdom, so many paragraphs that bring us back to the essentials of Christian community, such a great understanding of human nature and sin, that Life Together was well worth the read.
Several parts greatly impressed me.First, his discussion of Christian community as a grace and work of Christ was excellent.
Third, his focus on listening before proclaiming was a good reminder for those of us proclaim for a our vocation.
But it is a good reminder for all Christians.
We cannot truly bring the word to people if we do not listen to them.
A little book that should be read slowly. Not all that Bonhoeffer says could be universally applied to every form of Christian community. But he is thoughtful and certain things he says makes you aware that he has walked with Christ in community into deep waters.
Second, that Christian brotherhood is a spiritual and not a psychic reality.”– Not an Ideal but a Divine Reality – “Innumerable times a whole Christian community has broken down because it had sprung from a wish dream.
Because God has already laid the only foundation of our fellowship, because God has bound us together in one body with other Christians in Jesus Christ, long before we entered into common life with them, we enter into that common life not as demanders but as thankful recipients.
Will not his sin be a constant occasion for me to give thanks that both of us may live in the forgiving love of God in Jesus Christ?
I have never read a book that explains Christan fellowship so thoroughly. This will definitely be on my read again list.
Excellent source for learning how to develop healthy, Christ-centered relationships. Bonhoeffer gives readers great instruction particularly within family worship/discipleship and congregational life.
A book that cost you less than $1:The language is of it's time so it can feel dry and boring, but the message (and the man it is coming from) is powerful in truth, hope, and practicality.
I loved this little book. It's a quick read, and full of profound thoughts on living in community. This is one I hope to revisit from time to time.
Great book! I was especially helped by the last 2 chapters: ministry and confession. Reading this book has also helped me in preaching through a series on Christian community.
