https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/635083.Owen
When the book came out, my Owen had a year to establish himself as a little human being and by the time he was a year old he had a comfort "LeLe" -- a Lambchop puppet with a soft wooly fleece and he sucked his thumb.
Soon Owen's parents are telling him that Fuzzy is going to disappear and be replaced by a toy that is for big boys.
I would've upset Mrs. Twitter because I never took my Owen's LeLe from him.On a very basic level Kevin Henkes wrote this beautiful story and it will endure the test of time as long as human beings need love and comfort.
That being said, and while both Mrs. Tweezer's attitude and Owen's parents' behaviour (listening to her advice, actually trying to make Owen no longer want or desire Fuzzy) are personally aggravating, I also much commend Kevin Henkes for NOT sugar-coating this, for actually showing an adult type of in my opinion rather problematic if not emotionally abusive behaviour that is in fact very very common and even often considered acceptable if not laudable patenting (and in the end, Owen does get to keep his blanket and take it to school, although rendered into not-so-fuzzy handkerchiefs, a perfect and tenderly caring imaginative solution).
So not only do the parents attempt to force the poor kid to suddenly be okay with getting rid of his blanket, but when they realize it won't work they attempt to compromise by cutting it up into little squares and sending him to school with handkerchief-sized pieces.
My own son has a blanket he loves dearly but he is naturally spending less and less time with it on his own as he gets older without me having to give him lectures on how the nosy neighbor thinks he's a baby and hacking it into small pieces.
Ever heard of the blanket fairy? Until reading this, I never had.The mouse family in this book is very cute! I loved the expressions they have. Young Owen is very attached to his blanket. His parents try all sorts of methods to get him to part with it. Parents can relate to having to separate the baby items (first stuffy, blanket, pacifier, etc) from their child and kids can read this for alternatives and that every kid goes through adjustments in their life.
Loved this Caldecott Honor title about Owen and his beloved blanket Fuzzy!
Fuzzy is more than a security blanket for Owen in times of stress--it is also a companion in all manner of childhood adventures of both the real-world and imagination variety.
Fuzzy is truly a beloved friend.
But when it comes time for him to start school, without any advice from Mrs. Tweezers, Owen's mom comes up with the perfect solution so that Owen can keep his ties to Fuzzy while setting out into the wide grown-up world in a style that not even Mrs. Tweezers could object to!
“Owen” is a cute children’s book written from the mind of Kevin Henkes.
The book relates the story of how children are usually attracted to certain objects, such as a blanket, whenever they are young of age.
Kevin Henkes’ illustrations are truly highlighted in this story as the main characters are mainly mice which is the basis for most of his books.
Kevin Henkes also vividly illustrates the various reactions on the characters such as, Owen’s look of surprise when he smells the vinegar on his blanket and the somewhat sneaky expression on Mrs. Tweezers’ face as she gives various advice about what Owen’s parents should do about the blanket.
One of the categories was to read a book that is a book by Kevin Henkes so I decided to choose this book.
If you're interested in the picture book categories I'll be reading from as part of the challenge be sure to check out the link here: 2017 Challenges.This was such an adorable picture book and I loved the simplicity of the art.
Owen is the most adorable character I have ever seen.
I really enjoyed the writing style of Henkes as well so I know that I will be checking out more of his works sometimes soon.
This is a fun story that kids can relate to; a lovey blanket that is worn out, but still much loved by the child. Our girls didn't really have an item like this, but they understood it and they really liked the ending. The illustrations are fun and tell the story well.This book was selected as one of the books for the November 2016- Caldecott Honor discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
An "O" book for Collin's learning time. A very cute story of a little mouse and his fuzzy yellow blanket. Owen disagreed that he was too old to carry his blanket everywhere. In the end his mother knew just what to do and came up with the perfect solution.
This book SCARED THE HECK OUT OF ME when I was little, because I had a favorite blanket, and I was terrified that somebody was going to read the book and decide that it would be a good idea to cut MY blanket up into handkerchiefs. NOOOOOOOOO!
I know that he has written and illustrated numerous picture books, with many of them being Caldecott winners.
I know that it is nothing new for children's books to include a variety of animal characters, but I truly enjoy how his illustrations are well-drawn, bright in color, and allow the characters to be very expressive of their emotions.
Over the course of the story, Owen is pressured by his teacher and somewhat by his parents to give up Fuzzy before the school year begins.
Owen is a book about growing up, about the loss of innocence.
This book helps children go through childhood, and helps them cope with getting older and growing up.
I enjoyed how they varied in size, however I wonder if this might be an issue in a classroom setting, in showing the kids the pictures in a read aloud setting, but might not be an issue in smaller groups.
While the pictures were not photographs, you can see talent in them, and I enjoyed taking the time to look at them.
I rated this way because both the plot and the pictures were strong.
This adorable story is about a little boy (mouse) named Owen who is attached to his fuzzy yellow blanket that he has had since he was a baby.
Throughout the story a nosy neighbor named Mrs. Tweezers makes suggestions to Owen's parents of ways to rid Owen of his blanket.
Mrs. Tweezers also suggested dipping Owen's favorite corner into some vinegar and then just simply telling him "no," neither suggestion worked.
Owen's mother has an idea, she turns the blanket into multiple handkerchiefs that Owen can carry with him wherever he goes and Mrs. Tweezers has no complaints because she carries handkerchiefs as well.
I'm making my way through Amazon's 100 Best Children's Books to Read in a Lifetime. 23 down.
A mouse must get used to not having his blanket with him.Ages: 3 - 6**Like my reviews? I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too. These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't. I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website: The Book Radar.
This is a fiction book that portrays a theme about teaching its readers about acceptance and problem-solving.
For example, at the end of the book, the reader will realize that the neighbor has her very own handkerchief.
Teaching Ideas: I would use this book to teach students about acceptance and how no matter how different Owen's blanket was he still loved and cherished it.
I would also use it to explain the process of problem-solving.
The example I would use was how Owens mom decided to turn his blanket into smaller handkerchiefs.
Her favorite part of this story was when Owen's mother came up with the idea to cut up his blanket.
This lets him bring parts of his baby blanket where ever he wanted.Plot Summary: This cute children's book is about a little mouse named Owen.
He is a little mouse who's got love for his baby blanket, Fuzzy.
By the end of the story fuzzy may no longer be a blanket, Owen brings his "new" handkerchiefs wherever he goes.
Throughout the book she tries to show different ways for Owen's parents to "kindly" remove Fuzzy from Owen's possession.
It is a cute simple story that children can relate to as well as a lot have a special item they take with them everywhere, some that they cannot bring to school.
This story could be read part way through then have a conversation with the students (younger elementary) on items they may have at home they wish they could bring with or ones they did bring with to school.
Then the class could discuss a solution to the problem, coming up with ways that she could still bring her blanket to school without having to bring a big dirty thing to school and it getting in the way of her new experience.
Owen loves his yellow blanket, Fuzzy, but with school starting soon, his parents, goaded by their nosy next door neighbor, Mrs. Tweezers, want him to give it up.
Owen perseveres, however, until his parents come up with a much more compassionate resolution than anything Mrs. Tweezers suggests.
I doubt this is what kids would like about it, but my favorite part of this book was the peer pressure inflicted upon Owen’s parents by Mrs. Tweezers.
This book is, above all, a comforting testament to the security of knowing your parents love you - perfect for preschoolers.
Such a sweet story!
Owen has a favorite blanky named Fuzzy.
He loves it and takes it wherever he goes.
But he is getting to be a big boy and can't keep carrying Fuzzy everywhere.
So his mom and dad make several, unsuccessful attempts to help him part with Fuzzy.
Their final attempt is ingenious.
While my girls never really had a favorite blanky or stuffed animal, I know this is common for many children (and one of mine was very, very attached to her pacifier).
This is a great book to perhaps help the child make a transition/say goodbye to the beloved object.
1994 Caldecott Honor - Favorite Illustration: I love the page where Fuzzy isn't so fuzzy, but Owen carries, wears.
Kids are so imaginative, and I feel like the illustrations are perfect at reflecting the way kids use their favorite items to imagine and play just about anything!
This is a fun story about a little boy who isn't ready to give up his security blanket; even though Mom and Dad try everything to help him see that he's getting too old.
It's a perfect way for a little kid to keep their security but not feel like they're a 'baby.'
Owen by Kevin Henkes (1993)Genre: Picture bookFormat: BookPlot summary: Owen's parents try to get him to give up his favorite blanket before he starts school, but when their efforts fail, they come up with a solution that makes everyone happy.Considerations or precautions for readers advisory (strong language, sex, death, religious overtones, violence, etc.): No special considerationsReview citation (if available): Section source used to find the material: ALA Notabl 1994Recommended age: K-2nd grade
I rather liked the illustrations for this book. There is something so marvelous about black outlines and bright color. I also enjoyed the story. Poor Owen's parents tried multiple ways to get rid of that blankie, but none of them worked....except for one. And the one that did was a perfect compromise. I would recommend this book.*Taken from my book reviews blog: http://reviewsatmse.blogspot.com/2008...
Love the nosy neighbor!!! I remember performing this story out in first grade and it was so exciting. It is such a fun book and owen is adorable throughout it. Kevin Henkes is a great author and his books are always fun to read.
Life is hard for Owen when everyone asks him to give up his special blanket. He shows his resourcefulness as he copes with all attempts to remove the blanket. Cute and funny and sure to speak to those kids who have a special something to which they are very attached.
In a picture book, the child must solve the problem. An adult can't swoop in and solve the problem for the child. This book, although cute and well told, breaks that cardinal rule. Owen doesn't solve the problem of how to give up his beloved blanket. Mom solves the problem for him.
Reading about Kevin Henkes on npr today reminded me of how many times we read his books when my boys were little. I think we loved this one the most.
This is SO cute! I love the resolution of the problem with Fuzzy, Owen's fuzzy yellow blanket and best friend. The illustrations are colorful and interesting with fun mouse details.
I love Kevin Henkes' books. I also have an Owen and he just happens to have a blankie as well, so we could relate.
A story about a little boy who didn't want to let go of his blanket. Don't worry kid, we all know how your feel.
