https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/204123.Freedom_at_Midnight
It's almost a biblical story, and no wonder so many people still think fondly of empire, they probably read books like this one.The target audience for the book seems to be people who want to be able to understand just enough of the British Raj to absolve the Raj of any guilt and blame Jinnah and others for much of the ills of partition.The authors struggle with the very basic idea of why some brown people wanted independence, especially when the British were so benevolent and wise, and give up and just talk about it like it was just something which was happening, no hard feelings really, except against Jinnah.The book ignores practically all Indian writings, and even famous British writers like Adam Smith or Florence Nightingale who were harping on about the British needlessly killing millions in famines every few years in British India.
Frankly, never has a single book amazed and intrigued me so much, while being so educative and informative.The most astounding achievement of this book is that it rips out the aura of myths that have agglomerated around our political figures associated with the freedom movement, and humanizes each and every one of them, while being totally neutral, and being absolutely honest with the facts.
This book is recommended for anyone interested in knowing our freedom fighters, freedom movement, the Raj, the Maharajas and the Mahatma very substantially, if not wholly or in full measure.Above all, this is recommended for every Indian who wants a tryst with the quandary that is INDIA.
The consensus among historians puts much blame on the short-sightedness of the last British Viceroy, Lord Mountbatten, and the fake urgency he created (for his personal reasons) to “get over with it” by prematurely taking the decision to partition the country.
No one listened to his warnings; Jinnah turned a deaf ear, Nehru-Patel duo were eager to see British go and rule an independent country; but all of them were in for a rude shock when rioting and killing on a large scale ensued as soon as Partition and independence were formally announced.--Originally posted 30/12/14
Though they acknowledge a few of his epic mistakes, several bits of history are conveniently left out - such as the fact that the British largely created and fostered the animosities that led to pre- and post- partition violence (by promoting Sikhs, Ismailis, and Hindus as imperial agents and severely disenfranchising and terrorizing Muslims - representatives of the waning Mughal empire that the Brits conquered in order to take India- within a climate of extreme disparity.) One possible reason for this lack of crucial details: the authors want the readers to believe that the violence of partition, and partition itself, was largely the fault of Muhammad Ali Jinnah - the political force behind the creation of Pakistan.
The best book ever written on the birth of Pakistan as a nation.
"MY God," our mutual Indian friend exclaimed, "That school building is my family home!"Virtually overnight, millions just picked up what they could carry and migrated either north or south depending on their religion.
Houses were abandoned on both sides and empty homes were claimed quickly by anyone opportunistic enough.This account of the events leading up to partition, and the subsequent creation of a new nation, holds nothing back.
India and Pakistan are still political foes, I for one, wish partition never happened.
The authors have done plenty of primary research and interviewing with staff and family of other players, but there is no doubt that Mountbatten is front and center in this narrative and that the book occasionally veers towards hagiography.Because of these limitations this book is a place to start, not the place to stop in any serious study of South Asia, but reviewers who have suggested that the authors are apologists for the British are dead wrong.
There were also many, many stories not told by this book and key players who were missing from the narrative, but that is the limitation of this type of history.
यदा यदा हि धरमसय गलानिरभवति भारत।अभयुतथानमधरमसय तदाऽऽतमानं सृजामयहम।।4.7।।ठीक उसी परकार, ततकालीन परिसथितियों को धयान में रखते हुए, और इसे आधुनिक अरथो में लेते हुए, जब पूरा देश लीग और कांगरेस की खींचातानी में दरद से बिलबिला रहा था, और धारमिक-दंगो की आग में झुलस रहा था, तब भारत-भूमि पर विषणुजी के गयारहवें अवतार के रूप में एक पुरुष, कषमा कीजियेगा, महापुरुष का आगमन होता है, जिसने ठीक उसी परकार जैसे भगवान शिव ने मानव जाति की रकषा के लिए देवासुर समुदर-मंथन में निकले विष को सवयम पी लिया था, उस महापुरुष

It's been a while since I read this but I do remember feeling how biased the authors were towards Mr.Jinnah,the founder of Pakistan.The book essentially is an argument against partition.The ensuing riots are given a lot of space.Another chapter I remember is the lavish lifestyle of the Indian Maharajas.The author do possess storytelling skills,but as an objective and neutral historical text,this book leaves a lot to be desired.
If one isn't fond of non-fiction, I would suggest trying this one. Beautifully written to make stories from around the period of independence sound like a collection of creative short stories. Towards the long side, but worth the time. I learnt a lot about the independence struggle that I didn't know earlier. Feels like a TV series about that era.
This is the first book I always recommend to anyone wanting to understand India better.
It covers the six months prior to and six months after 8/15/47, when India and Pakistan gained independence from Britain.
So basically it starts with the decision to "Quit India" -- a decision made so suddenly and brazenly and devoid of conscience in its execution as to totally boggle the mind (and we still bear the fruits today, witness what's going on in Pakistan).
Nothing is as it would seem to an outsider in India.
After reading this book, you begin to be something other than a total outsider.
Oh dear.
This book gets high marks from many reviewers for its easy reading, and whilst there are some nice rhetorical flourishes, they become overused to the point of cliche (if I never see the words 'Queen Victoria's great-grandson' again it will be too soon).
If you want to read something that really gets to the heart of the enormous complexities of British rule in India, the Indian liberation movement, the key characters on all sides, and the results of partition (including present day legacies): read Michael French's excellent 'Liberty or Death'.
This is a well-researched, easy-to-read, even page-turning, history of the last days of the British Raj in 1947/8, the ill-handled partition creating an independent India and Pakistan, and the last days and death of Mohandas Gandhi. I thoroughly enjoyed it, being strongly moved by many of the events portrayed.
But fortunately I chose a good book to read.
Two, the partition, probably the worst time in her history.
For the most part the narration is very engaging, urging the readers to read on.
The author does not hesitate to criticise the Maharajas of India and Indian national leaders.
When reading about these little things, one begins to understand more about the partition than what is generally understood.
He makes references to two nation theory which has already been set aside as inaccurate.
Overall, it is a book that is worth reading.
Epic. Legend. How much it might have taken for them to write this book. Must read for every Indian. Hats off!
I usually do not buy books, preferring to borrow from a library.
I took this one from the library, but after reading it I ordered a copy for myself.2.
It is a history book, encapsulating the one year in which India was made, unmade, and then remade.
If my history books had been written by La pierre and Collins, I would have never taken up engineering3.
I am happy at the generation I am living in, but after reading this book, it made me wonder whether I have missed the most epoch making time of my country, well any country for that matter.5.
6. Ordering the other 2 books of the authors
I'm leaving for India and this book was recommended to me.
I knew nothing about India, except for the movie Gandhi and some misty misconceptions from my misspent youth.
Now the animosity and tension between India and Pakistan, Hindu and Muslim becomes clearer.
The reading is hard going right now (events just after the partition of India and Pakistan) as the authors describe horrific events.
Muslims intercept trainloads full of Hindus fleeing Pakistan and massacred the passengers.
Trains arrived in Indian stations with compartments full of dead and maimed passengers, blood flowing from compartments.
Equal atrocities were experienced by the Muslims.
A fascinating, very readable history of the 1947 partition which split India and resulted in the overnight formation of the present India’s borders and the separate countries of Pakistan and Bangladesh, By humanizing the main characters involved, (Gandhi, Nehru, Jinnah and Lord Mountbatten) and by including descriptions of what may seem bizarre and exotic to Westerners such as extremely extravagant lifestyles of Maharajahs it reads like an novel.
The British, after ruling India in a paternalistic manner were impatient to leave and Mountbatten decided to make the partition occur in a single day in a rush to go home.
I see that the header here has failed to note that this book was written by a team of authors: Dominique Lapierre and Larry Collins.
These authors are simply brilliant and have collaberated on a number of stunning historical books about key moments in history, among them, "Is Paris Burning" & "O Jerusalem".
I HIGHLY recommend it to anyone interested in the subject.
Lapierre & Collins are terrific writers and their works are riveting, well-paced and packed with interesting information and history.
If you like history but not the druggery of reading blah blah boring writers, THESE are the historians for you.
Brilliant books!
The single book can teach you a lot about Indian freedom struggle. Unlike the other history books which states just facts this book shows the social condition too, in its own way. Told in a way that even those who do not not know anything about history can clearly understand. A must read book for all generations.
for those who believe that the movie gandhi tells the story of the Quit India movement and partion, please do your ancestors a favor and read this book. a less pretty display of human emotions at work...
I loved this book! I learned so much about Gandhi and the history of India. I thoroughly enjoyed it. The writers list so many interesting details about the characters. It is unlike any historic account of events. I highly recommend it!
So, I finally successfully moved out of my reading 'comfort zone' and actually finished a non fiction book(despite finishing 4 other fiction novels since I started this).
This book is imo, a must read for each and every Indian and Pakistani to actually understand in detail what exactly happened during those tumultuous times in an unbiased manner through the eyes of the person who was at its epicentre.
Now, I'm not gonna waste too much space on what my views about Mountbatten, Gandhi, Nehru, Jinnah or Nathu Ram Godse were/are but I can say with some conviction that those views will be much more informed now than they were before reading this book.
And although that was a largely ceremonial title, the government's leaders asked him to secretly take on almost dictatorial powers when the crisis came.Edwina Mountbatten was as hard-working and courageous as her husband, and she was more of a people person.
(Lord Mountbatten could be a bit of a bully.) As the authors put it, "She could preside over a formal banquet in a diamond tiara one night and minister with skill and compassion to cholera victims in a fetid slum the next morning."It's hard to imagine a new government starting out with greater difficulty than India did in the summer and fall of 1947.
But sadly, this is a book that tries to justify Britain's occupancy of India, trying to put with an utmost subtlety that the Britishers had no bad intentions and they did nothing but help India grow and become a better nation.As you read, you'll find a great deal is written about Mahatma Gandhi, the "dejected bird" of Mountbatten, Nehru, the handsome Indian who is incredibly fascinated by the Mountbattens, Jinnah, the only guy who is shown in the bad light, and Patel, well...
The book is just a manuscript to put forth Britain as the wise and better, quoting Rudyard Kipling, who says that Indians better be ruled by Britishers, and heavily quoting Churchill, who has been depicted as a "guy too important to be in a book on India".
The struggle and stubbornness of political leaders to get their objectives would make you wonder, "Was the freedom really worth it?" 40s is the most important period in Indian history and the 40's India comes alive in every sentence of this book.
I am sure, after reading this book, you would look at our famous national leaders in a different light than before.I have not read many books on Indian independence ( if you count the boring text books of school) to judge whether this is the best book ever written on the subject.
The violence that occurred because of partition (from all sides) was a pre-cursor to what we in the modern day associate with places like Bosnia and Croatia, on a more giant scale because of the massive population.Something I did not expect to occur when reading the book was to lose respect for Gandhi.
If you can't play well together, something else has to happen, and the Muslims were obviously underrepresented enough to know what would happen when the English pulled out.
I was not familiar with Jinnah before reading the book, but gained a great deal of respect for him.
The book tells the true story (on the basis of facts) about how we got our freedom.
And The cost of our freedom which is very often forgotten.
How incredibly he unites India at the brink of civil war and total collapse where no one else could achieve it.The book tells the tales of lavish lives of Maharajas, the behind the scene stories of Kashmir, the gory details of the Partition and its aftermath, the stance of our leaders at different stages, all the conspiracies till the death of the Mahatma.
Not a fan of Non Fiction books, but this non fiction totally held my attention from beginning till the end.
The 700 pages long book covers one of the defining years in Indian History that starts from Lord Mountbatten being appointed as the Last Viceroy of India to carry out the difficult task of granting independence to India and ends with the funeral of Mahatma Gandhi.
Reading this book is a huge investment and definitely pays off with many 'Goosebumps' moments.
Highly recommended to read if you are interested in British Raj, Indian partition and the massacre that followed, and of course the Indian Independence.
This is a great one-volume history of the final months of the Raj and the independence of India and Pakistan. The villain is Mohammed Jinnah, the father of Pakistan. He felt any India in which Muslims were a minority would lead to oppression of Muslims, despite the good will of Gandhi and Nehru. And he may have been right, But this meant a partition, and in Punjab, the violence visited on the Sihks and Hindus of Pakistan fleeing East and the Muslims fleeing West was beyond comprehension. Gandhi almost single-handedly prevented similar communal violence in Calcutta.
A very detailed look (from an English perspective) of the formation of India and Pakistan. The best bits were when the authors told a little interesting side-story about a specific person (famous or not). Written in 1975, it does bemoan the end of the Empire and all of the benefits England bought to the sub-continent but does pay homage to Gandhi. The last quarter of the book was a thorough description of Gandhi's assassination.
