https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29057887-the-things-we-wish-were-true
This was one suspenseful read that kept me guessing as I took in the story from quite a few POVs, which seemed confusing at first, but slowly came together to weave a connected web of personal experiences and tragedies.I'll admit that this was a fairly short read, which came out to under 300 pages (at least my review copy did) and is probably my only critique.
While the plots are completely different, I feel those who really liked that book might enjoy this as well!The characters were really fun to get acquainted with; my personal favorite tangent was the budding relationship between Jencey and Lance.
Many thanks to Lake Union Publishing and Marybeth Whalen!
This story had a lot going on, but the author managed to weave the characters and events together seamlessly.
It was my first Marybeth Mayhew Whalen book, but it won't be my last.The story is set in the small, southern town of Sycamore Glen, North Carolina.
So often, authors are guilty of only portraying southern towns as being filled with idiotic, racist rednecks, feeding into all of the worst stereotypes of the people in this region of the country.
However, it wasn't long before I had all of the characters sorted and I was completely lost in the goings on of this small community.This is the type of town where everyone is connected somehow.
A spider's intricately spun web blocks the entrance to the neighborhood swimming pool on opening day, a portent of some sticky situations in store for the residents of Sycamore Glen.
There isn't a person in the group who doesn't have a secret.
And yes, those secrets will all be laid bare before summer's end.
I didn't really get the sense of a small town with this one.
It had more of a cozy neighborhood feel about it.
Best friends trying to reconnect, saying too much, sharing too little.
Would recommend to readers who prefer their novels on the lighthearted side.
Years later she returns after her life is upended, and her reappearance causes fears to be reawakened, and ripples into other people's lives.Zell is the neighborhood helper, always the one to bring food to a family dealing with a tragedy, lend support when it is needed, quietly observe what is going on around her.
But amidst the secrets and the fears are inherently good people caught up in circumstances they can't control, and the possibility of redemption and happiness where some might have feared there would be none.I enjoyed this book, but then again, I always loved a good soapy novel every now and again.
Now her husband in prison, she and her two young daughters have returned home to her mother, the boy she left behind now married to the woman who had been her best friend.
Over the course of the summer, a summer spent at the local pool, a near tragedy will occur and long held secrets will be revealed.This book is incredibly readable, it flows so well, alternately told in chapters narrated by all the main characters.
Small town secrets, characters terribly flawed, actually had me looking down my block and wondering what secrets my well known neighbors were keeping.
I really enjoyed The Things We Wish Were True for the first two thirds of the book, and then it started taking a couple of turns I didn’t like as much and my enthusiasm fizzled a bit.
Their lives are intertwined in various ways, and they all have secrets and troubles of some sort or another.
But then the story builds to a couple of overly dramatic events, and I felt that I was reading another type of book altogether capped off with a pretty sentimental ending.
This book is hard to take seriously, especially with characters with names such as Zell, Jencey, Cailey, Bryte and Lance.
It's difficult to get past the names--the whole time I was reading I was wondering--did no one at any point have the courage to tell the author just how ridiculous they are?
Isn't that what editors, publishers, etc.
And...I still can't get past those crazy names.
This is not a book that I'd recommend to anyone or read again.
Thank you to NetGalley and Lake Union Publishing for a copy of this in exchange for an honest review.
The book is told in the third person point of view by these characters: Everett and Bryte (long time best friends and husband and wife) Jencey (former best friend to Bryte and high school girlfriend of Everett), Zell (neighbor of Everett and Bryte and Lance), Lance (neighbor of Zell, Everett, and Bryte).
Zell is feeling guilty regarding something dealing with Lance's wife (it was a doozy and I ended up hating this character even more by the time the book was finished) and helps out Lance with his two kids.
Sycamore Glen in North Carolina is a very small town, everyone knows everyone and everyone else's business, or do they? Lurking behind these friendships, many are hiding secrets and lies while others are quite oblivious to what is happening around them. A near tragedy occurs, which in one sense will bring some closer together but for others, it may tear them apart. The story is told by four women Bryte, Jencey, Zell and Cailey all very different and each with their own set of troubles, but all very likable characters. A very enjoyable read.
I received this from the publisher and Netgalley for my honest review.This book was good, but not great.
I wish I had started it at the beginning of the summer - It's the perfect book to read by the pool, it was a quick read and entertaining, but a few things bothered me:1.
Stalkers, peeping Tom's, child abuse and abduction seemed to be inserted awkwardly while reading about the usual jealousies, lies and betrayal in a close knit community.3.
I'm no writer and I can't exactly put my finger on it, but I don't think this book was particularly well written.I would still recommend this book to readers who prefer something light and gossipy.
She was learning that there was usually a great distance between the two.If you can get past the unusual names of the main characters, you might be able to enjoy this story: Bryte (is it pronounced like Bright or like Britt?), Cutter, Jencey, Pilar, Zara, and Zell, with a life jacket thrown in by way of Everett, Lance and Cailey.
I've never understood it when authors settle on such names; are they trying to be unique, or to just confuse the reader?I did, eventually, get past that, and I did enjoy the story pretty much.
Wow, this book packs a punch. The story unwinds through the alternating perspectives of a host of characters living in the same small town who are all connected through a web of secrets and lies. Deftly told. Highly recommend.
This is a book that wishes it were written by Liane Moriarty. But it was not. Lots of intersecting plot lines that made me say "Wait, what?" and overused awkward phrases ("That she is" came up a LOT).
I got this as a Kindle Prime freebie. It's not exactly soaring prose, and the plot is predictable, but I liked and cared about the characters.
This was the first book I read by this author, and I really enjoyed it.
It is told from different points of view, which adds to the unique story line, and focuses on the hidden secrets each one is harboring.
And they are all harboring secrets!!
And while I enjoyed the book overall, Cailey stole my heart.
The type your heart goes out to.
Every book should have a Cailey.
This was a great summer read and I will be looking forward to more books from this author.
The Things We Wish Were True follows the events within a small community in North Carolina over the summer of 2014.Told from multiple perspectives, one in first-person the rest in third-person, the diverse characters include Lance, a father trying to cope with his two children after his wife left, Jencey, a mother forced to return to her childhood home after her husband has been imprisoned, Zell, an older and somewhat lonely woman who loves to help out, Cailey, a young girl from a single-parent family in charge of her little brother, and Bryte and Everett, a couple with secrets and relationship dilemmas.Some of these characters meet for the first time at the neighborhood pool, others grew up together and have plenty of history.
Rating 4.5/5.0The story starts at the beginning of the summer in a small neighborhood.
This summer something happens there that interconnects different families' stories and problems in an interesting way.
The nice thing about what the author did is that she gave us the different families' stories from the different characters perspectives.
Maybe that was the main character because lots of events/secrets unfold because of her.The incident in the pool has happened in real life in the author's neighborhood as she mentioned it in the book and she used it very nicely to connect all the different stories.
The Things We Wish Were True is mesh of genres that focuses on a neighborhood, it's residents, and the past and present happenings there.
Will the neighbors' relationships survive when all that is hidden comes to light?
There is definitely more going on than meets the eye, and will probably surprise you.After finishing it, your mind will go here--What all do we not know about our own neighbors?
This one will make you think and you won't soon forget.
:D**Many thanks to NetGalley and Lake Union Publishing for granting my wish for a review copy!**
At first glance life in Sycamore Glen North Carolina is idyllic. A neighborhood where nothing much has changed except the age of the occupants. But nothing is as it seems. Just below the surface there are resentments,fears, old jealousies. A generational tale as well with kids turned grown-ups parenting their children who challenge them as they did their parents.The story is told in alternating perspectives by the principals of the story.Overall this was easy for me to get into and stay with. If things resolved a little too easily, I can forgive it.The telling was well done.
I will admit that at the beginning of the book, there was a little confusion with all the different characters, but after getting into the story, everything soon became clear.
Lance - has recently become a single father, but how long will that be the case?Everett - Married to Bryte and ex of Jencey has a few of his own secrets that could tarnish his relationships.There is one story about a summer in North Carolina, told from each persons point of view.
Each character has their own side to the story centered around the neighborhood pool.
At the end of this summer the whole neighborhood will be changed from the secrets that are revealed.
3.5 stars!
The Things We Wish Were True is about a group of people who all have pasts that are intertwined.
After a traumatic event happens one summer, secrets start to be revealed among each person, both from the past and present.
Overall, the book kept my attention, and I liked the characters.
It was a little confusing at first trying to keep all of the different character POVs straight and remembering who was related to who, and how they all knew each other, but once I got through that piece, I enjoyed the book.
Marybeth Mayhew Whalen pulls you into an all American contemporary neighborhood, with dark secrets and lies, seems everyone is hiding something in her latest: THINGS WE WISH WERE TRUE  –a Southern charmer looks beneath the pristine exteriors of this friendly North Carolina neighborhood.
Written from multiple contrasting  perspectives, starting Memorial Day Weekend 2014, we hear from a variety of characters: Cailey, Zell, Lance, Bryte, and Jencey.
Even though Cutter could not swim very well and the people ignored them, she liked the pool.Bryte grew up  in Sycamore Glen, always longing for the boy taken by her best friend.
Sooo good. Once I started, I couldn't stop reading. My Rating: 5 stars
A quick read that still packs a punch, The Things We Wish Were True tells the story of neighbors in a small North Carolina town.
It took me a little bit of time to know which character was which, but after that, I enjoyed the alternating perspectives.
The book was a bit overly dramatic (think soap opera) at times, but it kept me interested.
I am pleased with the ending, and my main complaint about the book is that most of the characters have unusual names, as if the author gave them unique names just for the sake of doing so.
Overall, a solid book I'd recommend.
3.5 Stars: “Things We Wish were True” is a relatable novel of humans making do: living everyday life, hoping for the best, believing in the best (even when it’s contrary to the obvious).
It’s a testament to the human spirit.Told in alternating POV’s, which is one of my favorite plot devices, the reader gets a multidimensional look at the story.
It’s a story of the 2014 summer in a suburb of Sycamore Glen, NC.
Cailey, her Mom and brother recently moved to Sycamore Glen.
It’s a story that could take place in any suburb.
There seems to be a trend in books about secrets among women and how it effects those around them.
Or maybe I am just picking up increasingly more of this “style” of book.The Things We Wish Were True plays out like a day time soap opera or life time made for TV movie.
The chapters are short and slowly give away pieces of the puzzle to slowly reveal the damaging secrets of most characters in the story.
In short it was ok read for me and I would recommend it to readers that love this mystery/ secret style of a novel.
This book should be called "white people's problems".A book about nothing. There's no story. You'll meet insufferable characters and unbelievable plots. A book hasn't enraged me in a long time.
This book was a fast read with believable characters. I liked how it alternated perspectives and many of the characters were intertwined. It seemed that everyone had a secret and some of them were surprising. The setting of a suburban neighborhood in the summer really worked for me! A great book I would highly recommend.
I'm writing this review in North Carolina, not too far from where the book is based in (an analog Matthews).
The narrative just lets these very minor (but still terrible) plot points to pass with absolutely zero conflict- the only thing that pushes the story forward collectively is Cutter's status in the hospital...
A North Carolinian town without a single black person?
I bet this is a real novelty for white people that don't live in North Carolina, but, to me, it just read like the author had caught too much gossip on people she cared about and thought she could spin a story out of it.
When Jencey returns with her two children after living away for many years and a near tragedy occurs with a young child in town a web of secrets held for years begin to reveal.
This novel is told from many POVs (6 I think) and is a relatively short book.
I really enjoyed the characters in this book.
Where I found the book lacking was the story line.
Yes, there were secrets revealed but I felt that the whole novel needed a stronger direction.
I thought the characters were great and just wished their stories were taken a bit farther.
