https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/145565.The_Essays_of_Warren_Buffett
Cunningham organizes the essays within seven sections between Buffett's Prologue (Pages 27-28) and his Epilogue (Pages 273-282): I Corporate Governance II Corporate Finance and Investing III Alternatives to Common Stock IV Common Stock V Mergers and Acquisitions VI Accounting and Valuation VII Accounting Policy and Tax Matters As Buffett explains in his Prologue, members of Berkshire Hathaway's shareholder group receive communications directly "from the fellow you are paying to run the business.
A once-a-year report of stewardship should not be turned over to a staff specialist or public relations consultant who is unlikely to be in a position to talk frankly on a manager-to-owner basis." Those who share my own keen interest in Warren Buffett's leadership and management principles will learn a great deal from a careful reading of these essays.
Another masterpiece. There are some books of 200 pages that take me more time to read than books of 400 pages. I read and then re-read every line to ensure that I don't miss one single insight. The book more than lived up to its promise. I recommend any investor, analyst and particularly accounting professionals to read it.
Really not sure how I missed reading this book for so long. But they say better late than ever.
Focus on Value Investing:-	The value of any stock, bond or business today is determined by the cash inflows and outflows-discounted at an appropriate interest rate-that can be expected to occur during the remaining life of the asset.-	The investment shown by the discounted-flows-of-cash calculation to be the cheapest is the one that the investor should purchase-irrespective of whether the business grows or doesn't, displays volatility or smoothness in its earnings, or carries a high price or low in relation to its current earnings and book value.-	In our view, though, investment students need only two well-taught courses-How to Value a Business, and How to Think About Market Prices.-	Your goal as an investor should simply be to purchase, at a rational price, a part interest in an easily-understandable business whose earnings are virtually certain to be materially higher five, ten and twenty years from now.-	It's far better to buy a wonderful company at a fair price than a fair company at a wonderful price.-	In analysis of operating results-that is, in evaluating the underlying economics of a business unit-amortization charges should be ignored.
As a child Buffet was obsessed with entrepreneurship.
Obsession makes it more likely for you to stick to your plans with persistence but probably only few investors will devote their lives to their investment like Buffet did.
From this book you will take away many lessons on investment from Warren Buffet which guided him in becoming the most glorified and respected investor of all times.
This book also describes how Buffet took control of Berkshire Hathaway.
You may also find interesting the annual letters to shareholders which are published on Berkshire Hathaway site starting from 1965.
Buffett establish that investors should go for good business rather than focusing on the market, buy at good prices and keeping them for long term, which actually is what Warren has done during his management in Berkshire.
Buffett sent letters to the members of Berkshire shareholders in order to explain them what he is doing and why they are in for.
He uses the letters to explain complex concepts to be easily understood and with some peculiar humor and a lot of wisdom.It is, in my opinion, the first business book really enjoyable to read.
An excellent option to learn from one the most successful business man worldwide.
The Oracle at his brilliant best. A must for anyone interested in investing
This book bolstered my passion for investing and cemented my desire to make it my vocation, rather than the many other prestigious paths to "money-shuffling" Buffett is notoriously critical of. I was surprised by some of the lessons I learned from Buffett. Two that immediately come to mind are 1) the malleability of Wall Street's most sacred metrics (net income, EPS to name a few), and 2) how important ethics in business are for both businesses' long-term economic health and individuals' personal health.
I can see how great this book can be, so I wanted to give it 5 stars. However, the verbiage and many concepts are currently beyond me so I can’t give it the review it truly deserves. It was very dry but a great resource for someone with a little more knowledge in the finance areas. I will eventually updated this with a more accurate review when I learn more and can fully comprehend the book.
A book with extremely simple ideas that are repeated over and over and over again. Ideas that a 15-year-old could come up with. Nothing close to the outstandingly complicated nonsense present in most other investment and finance books. And this simplicity, amidst all the chaos and hunger for complexities, is perhaps what makes Warren Buffett the greatest investor of all time.
Reflects philosophy and strategy of W. Buffett and C. Munger. Useful.
Cunningham has done a wonderful job at organizing some of Buffet's most insightful essays over ten topics. With lessons ranging from effective corporate governance to assessing a company's earnings quality, anyone interested in business or investing absolutely must read this book. The book is only 300 pages, but I wouldn't plan it to be a quick read. It's worth setting aside a decent amount of time to really chew on the ideas and philosophies that The Oracle of Omaha generously presents. You'll be glad you did!
Insightful and entertainingAs expected, Buffett's writing is insightful, Interesting and inspiring. He has firm views and the record to back it up. The book beautifully arranges topics from various letters into chapters which in my view is a great way to experience Buffett's writing.
Even as a complete novice in this field I managed to gain so much from this book. And to think what a person, studying finances or working with investments, could learn from essays - is just mind-blowing!
Nevertheless, Buffet states and re-states his principles clearly and succinctly and often provides amusing anecdotes or related jokes, and if you're at all interested in how businesses should be run and investments should be made this book will be valuable.First, however, you'll have to get through a fantastic counterexample of good business writing: the editor's preface, which comprises the first 10% of the book.
Buffet knows his grasp on technology-related business is tenuous so he doesn't try to get involved in tech.- Focus on the business, not the stock: you are buying ownership in a company you will hold for a long time because it has good long term prospects and is well run, and if you are not buying for this reason you should be.
There is a very nice introduction that sums up Buffet's views, and is great for people who have not been exposed to, or are not very familiar with value investing.The books lacks flow, with the order that the letters are listed in sometime jumping back and forth by a decade and two without preparing the reader to make the appropriate context switch.
Since these are letters to shareholders, there is also an underlying assumption that the reader has some knowledge/experience on the matter at hand, making it slightly more difficult to read.
This book is a great, well organized compilation of Mr. Buffett's famous "Letters to Shareholders" which appear in the annual reports of Berkshire Hathaway.It has been recently updated to include the letters to shareholders written since the book was first released in 1996, a new introduction has been written, and a new, tougher, blue cover has been added.
It is a great tool to use when trying to compile Mr. Buffett's comments on a particular subject since it is organized by subjects he has discussed in his letters over the years.
My expectation before I started reading this book (as with books of this nature) was to understand how Buffett pins down a purchase.
He is miles ahead than many because he has the ability to question the standard approach.
The book shares his view on a wide variety of issues that come about when you consider a "business" and it is here that you realise how important the approach of looking at an investment as "part-owner" is.
I thought this was all pretty good.It's a strange compilation.
Different sections from different reports in different years are arranged by topic.
So, as business conditions change, the details of the advice changed.
The fundamentals are always the same: Owning a business is good if the business is good and never invest because you think the price will go up rather than because the business is good.Buffett is often funny (although some of his jokes are a little dated such that they're much less funny now than they would have been perceived when told (or earlier)) and usually makes business concepts very accessible.
I was searching for the hardcopy book of Buffet's letters to the shareholders, and landed with this book in library.
But this is a good summary from all those letters organised like your corporate finance chapters.
I should have read this book along with my Corporate Finance course text book during my course.
This is just pure rational thought process of buffet, (even if he does not follow all those mentioned for the criticisms against him) gave a better idea of various concepts of running , owning a company.
Loved this book to the core, got me glued to this for last one week.
I thought this "book" was more direct advice on investing and personal finance. Through reading this book, I found out that it's about:- High volume investing- Operating a (public) businessBut what I loved about the book is that it's not direct. Warren won't tell you how to be rich. He just lays out his philosophy and thinking about money, businesses and people.I think it's not a very useful information for people looking to make small trades in the market, but a gold mine for those going in the finance world (think hedge fund managers).
Slightly difficult to read through but with a little extra determination, I was able to finish this timeless collection of essays that helped me gain essential insights with real-life and straight forward examples. Great insight into Buffet's view on business valuation, capital structuring and importance and role of management in corporations. It's a book i'll most likely return to again from time to time!
This is an excellent book on how business should be run. Larry Cunningham does an excellent job rearranging Buffett's expositions in his annual report to show Buffett's approach on investing and life. In a world where Wall Street looks for short-term gains at all cost, Buffett stands out in making sure that his investing world is as equitable as possible. This book should be read by anyone interested in investing
These were mostly letters to buffett's share holders. There is humor, and good naturedness. Some common sense investing knowlege. Of course he is a master. I don't know if I would read this knowing what I know now. But I am not discouraging others from it. It has some worth for anyone wanting to read what Buffett has to say in any case.
One of those rare books on business and leadership that both entertains and enlightens. Deftly edited, the book consists of excerpts from the Berkshire Hathaway annual shareholder letters, organized by theme to reveal the larger philosophies of Warren Buffett and Charlie Munger that have led to Berkshire's unparalleled success. It might be the only business text you'll ever need.
It's got some interesting points, and it taught me some stuff about businesses. But it's terribly repetitive. The main points could probably have been expressed in a ten-page essay instead of a 230-page book. I sympathize with the business students who have to use it as a textbook.
Warren Buffett and Charlie Munger are geniuses. Inspired by Ben Graham.
Good...but this was a bit beyond my knowledge. I am the average joe, so this was a bit beyond me. Interesting, what I did understand.
Отличная книга про долгосрочные инвестиции.
This is an excellent book to graze and read one at a time.The essays pull you in, and provide excellent frameworks for looking at various business activities.
