https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/122449.Asterix_and_the_Great_Divide
I've always preferred my Asterix to be done by both Goscinny and Uderzo but seeing this volume on clearance was just too hard to ignore, so I bought it.
This volume was the second Uderzo did solo after Goscinny passed away and there isn't any noticeable difference.
I've only read a handful of the books and I feel need to read more but I guess I could say that it still feels like Asteriz.
Uderzo didn't try too much to deviate from what made Asteriz beloved to generations of readers.It wasn't a bad deal for me and I didn't regret it.
Asterix and the Great Divide (Astérix #25), Albert Uderzo
Nach dem Tod von Rene war es sicher schwierig die Arbeit fort zu setzen und man darf Albert dankbar auf die Schulter klopfen, dass er es weitergeführt hat und in manchen Fällen nah an den genialen Schreibstil seines Kollegen und Freundes gekommen ist.Der Große Graben ist jene Geschichte, jener Band der ganz konkret hängen geblieben ist - die Geschichte des geteilten Dorfes, man kommt nicht umhin hier an die Grenzzäune des Kalten Krieges zu denken.
Nicht aus zu denken was hier möglich gewesen wäre.Ich kehre zum "Schulterklopfen" zurück, denn Albert Uderzo hat diese Geschichte nicht nur unterhaltend umgesetzt und wahrscheinlich hat er hier mehr Blut als Wasser geschwitzt, in die erzählerischen Fußstapfen seines jahrzehntelangem Weggefährten zu treten war sicherlich nicht leicht.
codfix: i'm from majestix, rightful chief of the right side of our village. i'm his alter ego and right hand.centurion umbrageous cumulonimbus: and this is my left foot! be off, or it'll alter your ego.we'll miss you, rené
Paluu lapsuuden suosikkien pariin lukuhaasteen innoittamana. Asterix on mainio!
Best retelling of Romeo and Juliet ever!
A Shakespearian comic - parody of the "Romeo and Juliet" story. Ours friends with the Druid Panoramix come to a Gallic village which is divided left and right part by a deep ditch. Each part is ruled by a different competitor chief while his daughter Melodrama and his son Histionix are in love!!! The two rival chiefs have to be convinced to see the great good and stop the "Great Divide"... but before the solution....the Roman Army is involved, the pirates are involved and a very "fishy" guy...
Full of pretty creative puns and very well drawn, Asterix was a lot of fun. It's a little young for me; if I had kids, I'd probably buy the whole series for them, but I don't see myself reading much more of it for my own sake. Though it's still one of the most fun and engaging comics I've read.
Le Grand fossé - Albert UderzoRating: ★★ 1/2Review coming soon!
In this one, Asterix, Obelix and Getafix help a village that has been divided down the middle. Predictable, light, chauvinistic and stereotypical but still one of the better Asterix books.
A Gaulish version of Romeo and Juliet.
everything was so fishy. amazing pun, sarcasm, irony
One of my favourite Asterix titles. I like the take on the Romeo and Juliet story. And who doesn't like what happens to the Romans when they drink the magic potion!
This and the the Cleopatra one are the best ones.
Det er mykje som er bra her, men han giftige rådgjevaren er for outrert og plottet lenar seg for mykje på magi. Ny forfattar på ein måte, det er kanskje der problemet ligg
Edelleen hyvää Asterixia. Selkeä, vähän erilainen tarina kuin peruslinja.
In un altro villaggio in Gallia un fossato divide la destra dalla sinistra e i due capi si danno battaglia.
Saranno i nostri Asterix e Obelix, richiamati dall'amore impossibile di Comix e Fanzine, ad intervenire e a riportare armonia nel villaggio.Primo albo completamente sceneggiato e disegnato da Uderzo dopo la scomparsa di Goscinny.
Ma Uderzo non lesina certo in fonti visto che, ad esempio, Comix e Fanzine sono direttamente ispirati a Giulietta e Romeo.Uderzo si impegna per non sfigurare e ci riesce molto bene, dando alle nuove avventure di Asterix un suo tocco che ha assicurato alla serie di poter continuare il proprio successo.Da non perdere le esagerate zuffe del villaggio e la casa del cittadino neutrale.
Uma aldeia divide-se politicamente em duas, através de um fosso que separa as duas metades da aldeia.
O jovem vai pedir ajuda aos nosso amigos gauleses pois o intriguista conspira para que os romanos ataquem a outra metade da aldeia.
Enfim no fim da história, a aldeia reúne-se, os romanos são derrotados e os dois jovens casam e o jovem é eleito o novo chefe sendo que os pais de ambos se resignam a uma reforma dourada.
In this parody of “Romeo and Juliet” (with elements of Lord of the Rings present) a Gallic village is divided by a deep ditch, with each section ruled by a different chief.
Both chiefs hate each other, while their children are engaged in a secretive romance.
One of the chiefs, Cleverdix, calls for the aid of Vitalstatistix to help settle the dispute, and Asterix, Obelix, and Getafix are sent to see it done.
At the same time, a creepy fish-like creature named Codefix is manipulating the other chief (Majestix) into doing his bidding and plans to marry his daughter.A fun tale, even if the political satire is unusually weak.
The premise is that of a tiny community in ancient Gaul that has firmly resisted the occupation of the Roman Empire now all of Gaul is conquered by the Romans except for the small village surround by several roman camps, thanks to a magic potion produced/provided by the druid that grants outstanding strength.
In all-ways, I learned quite a bit about the Roman army through this series.
It has been translated into a countless number of languages, but they're almost not worth reading in anything but the original French or a roman language as most of the humor is lost when it is translated to English.
This is the first of Asterix comics I've read, and the whole series is very funny and engrossing.
The premise is that of a tiny community in ancient Gaul that has firmly resisted the occupation of the Roman Empire thanks to a magic potion produced by the local druid that grants exceptional strength.
In retrospect, I learned quite a bit about the Roman military through this series.
It has been translated into a huge number of languages, but they're almost not worth reading in anything but the original French or a romance language as most of the humor is lost when it is translated to English.
Les albums d'Astérix ont bercé mon enfance mais j'ai manqué plusieurs des 36 albums (à ce jour). Après la sortie du plus récent Le papyrus de César, j'ai décidé de me replonger dedans en commençant par Le grand fossé. C'est un délice de retrouver Tournedix, Segregationix, Comix, Fanzine et le fumant et tordant (oups... le fameux et tordu) Acidenitrix! Un des meilleurs Astérix à mon avis, avec Astérix en Corse et Le Devin.
Depuis ma jeunesse, je déteste le Grand Fossé. C'est le premier que ma mère m'a acheté avec Astérix chez les Helvètes. Celui-ci est vraiment mauvais. Il y a plusieurs jeux de mots qui ne sont pas drôle. L'histoire de Roméo et Juliette à la sauce gauloise est vraiment d'un ennuie. Même les pirates ne m'ont pas fait rire. La fin avec les romains est complètement stupide. C'en est une insulte à mon intelligence.
Asterix the Great Divide – an excellent companion to Asterix and Caesar’s Gift, this one analogizes two-party governance to a Romeo & Juliet-style feud, as Druid Getafix calls upon a village that’s literally split right down the middle by competing co-chieftains.
Uno dei 5 volumi che ho preferito della serie, Voto effettivo [4.5 ★★★★☆]Per un breve approfondimento sulla serie e sui volumi che ho preferito, lascio il link al post che ho scritto sul mio blog su questo tema.
One of the better Goscinny-less attempts by Uderzo. Goscinny's absence still shows, however. Political satire? Weak. Word and name puns? Weak. One-line knee-slappers? Slapless. The attempt to play on themes from Romeo and Juliet? Meh. Artwork? First-rate. It took Goscinny to give that artwork some soul-depth, however. A somewhat fun, uninspiring read.
sort van romeo en juliet maar dan met een happy end, en galliers en romeinen.
Can there ever be a happy ending for star-crossed lovers Melodrama and Histionix, whose fathers are rival chieftains of the same village? Asterix and Obelix again have to do some ingenuous maneuver to convince the rival chieftains to agree to disagree for the greater good of the star cross lovers.
This book was about two people that wanted to marry each other but there was this guy that was mean and he was half human and half fish. He captured the chief's daughter who was one of the people who loved the other person. She whacked the person in the face when it was gonna offer her flowers because she knew it was gone whack her on the face. It was fish guy.
Cerita ini mengingatkanku pada kisah cinta orang tuaku di sebuah desa di Cirebon, yang terbagi dua oleh sebuah kali. Di bagian utara daerah "Sunda", di bagian selatan daerah "Jawa". Ayah berasal dari utara dan ibu dari selatan, tapi toh berjodoh...Bedanya, permusuhan antar golongan utara dan selatan nggak separah di komik Asterix.
