https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/868440.The_Blacker_the_Berry_

His song "The Blacker the Berry" was inspired by this classic Harlem Renaissance novel, and when you know Lamar's lyrics and read Thurman's text, you realize how these two works of art are reinforcing each other, and the effect is truly amazing.
She writes: "Thurman's novel reveals the interracial conflict that results from living in a racist America; almost ninety years later, Lamar's focus is the racist system itself", and dissects some of his lyrics - great stuff.So thanks, Mr. Lamar, for pointing this book out to me, I will soon go on to read Roots: The Saga of an American Family while listening to "King Kunta"!

America 1920's and Emma Lou Morgan is 'color-conscious' She is a dark complexioned yong black woman, who has never loved or even appreciated the rich hue of her skin.
Emma Lou was not an easy character to like.
I may not have 'liked' Emma Lou, but I certainly believed in her as a character.
The poem I quoted above was performed by a fair skinned black chorus girl performing in a musical review that Emma Lou attended.
Ehhhhh...It's one of those books that is important for its historical impact.
Buuuuuut...The good thing about the writing is that it makes for a quick, easy read.
But the quality of the writing is pretty weak.
The books tells more than it shows, especially with its use of ironic/sarcastic tone which just comes off as kinda douche-y.
The tone makes it hard to care about any of the characters.
The main character, Emma Lou, shows no growth until like 10 pages before the end of the novel.

Wallace Thurman is such a striking writer--his style, particularly in this novel, is vivid, near-hypnotic, and this book is a mixture of racial/social critique, sordid melodrama, and a US travel narrative following protagonist Emma Lou's trials in early adulthood.
The Blacker the Berry  analyzes American colorism, particularly within the African American community, especially inside intellectual circles and/or in Harlem of the early 20th century.
Emma Lou is admittedly an infuriating character (as her internalized self-hatred and desire for those who would "naturally" shun her leads her to make the same mistakes in different cities), but I found her to be overwhelmingly sympathetic and engaging.
THE BLACKER THE BERRY. (1929). Wallace Thurman. ****. This novel was one of the ones included in the Library of America’s collection called “Harlem Renaissance.” It addresses the issue of prejudice among blacks themselves of truly “black” women. Although they admired lighter-skinned blacks, ones who were truly a deep black were shunned and ignored. The heroine of this novel is a woman named Emma Lou. She was raised in Boise by her family who had managed to become mildly successful and achieve a
The heroine of this novel is a woman named Emma Lou. She was raised in Boise by her family who had managed to become mildly successful and achieve a middle-class status.
She was the only black person in her class, and was musing over her achievement and what it all meant to her.
Emma Lou continued to dwell mentally on her blackness, and saw it as the reason for her lack of friends and exclusion from the only black sorority on campus.
It was certainly strong, with no apparent hope in sight, either for Emma Lou or for the man she ultimately pursues and captures.
This in turn informs the way she looks upon herself—like her oppressors she prefers the company of men with lighter skin, and detests crudity of behavior, which she ironically and erroneously associates with darker skin.In a sense similar to Helga Crane in Larsen's 'Quicksand', we want to shake Emma Lou, to force some reason into her.
Helga was more of a wanderer, and I tend to have little sympathy with that type of character...Later in his short career, Thurman writes a satire on the figures of the Harlem Renaissance, 'Infants of the Spring'.
The protagonist was not a likable character. She hated how her family discriminated against dark skinned Blacks, yet she did the exact same thing. She was simple and ignorant and thoroughly pissed me off, yet as she grew and and faced her existence without excuse (they don't like me because of my dark skin versus they don't like me because I'm obnoxious) she became more endurable and maybe, just maybe, someone I would care no know with further exposure.
a classic!
Nous allons donc la suivre dans les années 20, bien après la traite négrière, mais toujours dans une époque très dure pour les noirs, en Amérique, où il était mieux d'être noir à la peau claire pour être "Accepté" que noir à la peau sombre, en plus d'être une fille.Je préfère vous le dire tout de suite, j'ai arrêté ma lecture à la moitié du livre.
Je peux tout à fait comprendre ce complexe d’infériorité qui remonte à très loin, au temps de l'esclavage, quand les maîtres blancs faisaient énormément de préférences par rapport à la couleur des esclaves, surtout chez les femmes ; plus tu étais clair plus tu avais la chance de ne pas travailler dans les champs et sûrement plus de privilèges.
Emma Lou has it hard in a family of mixed kin. Her mama, mamma's mama too (white slave master + slave) but her daddy is pure sweet black berry juice. The story is all about self acceptance and Emma Lou has hella trails and tribulations ahead in her life. Enjoy.
The way some events in Emma's life were fleshed out fully with pages describing poetically how she was feeling, and others equally important were given a page maybe and rushed through, confused me at times.
(view spoiler)[ The first part of the book explains her and her journey to college and we establish her feelings about it and then about a paragraph is devoted to staying in school 1-2 more years, and moving across the country.
Too much time and energy was devoted to trying to poetically explain what was happening in Emma's mind without anything seamless in going how the story seemed to be intended to go.
It was well written and touches on the sensetive subject of racial prejudice within the black community.
The main character, Emma, is naive and insecure not solely do to societies views of dark skin, but mainly due to how she was raised and treated by members of her own family, who were of lighter complexion.
Alothough I enjoyed this book and the journey Emma embarks on to find her place in the world, the ending seemed flat and unfinished.
It almost seems that there should be another book that picks up where this one leaves off.
An informative and insightful look into black america of the 1920's.
This book is classic black America, written in 1929 -- well-written for its time and subject.
Emma Lou was educated and had lived in Idaho.
Her problem was her skin color, not just black but dark.
It mattered then and I suspect it still matters today.
The book is still timely because of the unexplainable prejudices people have against each other for preposterous reasons.
Emma Lou tried to escape the pettiness of her small town at college and in big cities but her color mattered everywhere.
It is a book that is very frustrating to read, because of the main character's [Emma Lou] outlook on everything in her life.
It seems that she never takes any responsibility, or ownership of her own life, relying on the views/opinions of those around her.
She knows that other blacks discriminate against her, because of her shade, yet, she does the exact thing to her people, just not on the basis of the tone of their "blackness".
The Blacker the Berry will always be an important historical fixture, because of Wallace Thurman's boldness in freely writing about the colorism that exists within the African American community.
I'm only on page 50 of this novel and it's already struck a nerve with me.
As a black gay man I can totally relate to the alienation Emma Lou experiences first hand from her own community.
She because of her exceptionally dark skin (this internal racism still exist today within the black community) and myself because of my openness with my sexuality (a homosexual black man is considered the scourge of the black community).For a novel written in 1929 it is amazingly relevant in today's society as well.
A must read for any black person who is struggling to find their place in the black community.
This book is, by far, one of my favorite reads. It really digs deep into the social, moral, and mental issues plaguing the late 19th/early 20th century Negro-American. For me, it displays for the reader an uninhibited view of the duplicity of the Negro state of mind, how it affected the Negro family, and how it weakened the Negro community. It gives a deeper, more poignant interpretation of the color divide among one race of people and a foreboding insight into the issues faced by the 21st century African-American.
As is often the case with books from the Harlem Renaissance, many of the points they held up for criticism still ring too true today nearly 100 years later.
Truly one of the best books I've ever read. The author died much too soon. Highly recommended.
A fantastic lost classic of the Harlem Renaissance -- highly recommended!
Yes, we as people have our preferences, that's fine, but to down someone because they're "too dark" and praise for someone who is "high yella" or brown skin?!?!
I, as a "high yella" woman was and still can be very self conscious of my skin tone because people always made a big deal out of it..and I never saw what the damn big deal was...and I still don't.
Just like I do my best to not make anyone else feel less than because I dont see the big damn deal and "high yella" men and women.
But when that doesn’t work out she heads to New York City to begin work and finds herself even more unhappy and unsatisfied.Along the way we meet another character named Alva who becomes Emma’s first real love interest.
After all this Emma still remains in love with Alva, but is it enough to stick around and watch his own downfall?This is such a fucking sad story!
Between what Emma has to wrongfully go through to her relationship with Alva it just really, physically, pained me and thinking of that last page kills me 😭 It hurts guys.
I love me a sad book and this is a top 5.
The main character, Emma Lou Brown, is a dark-skinned woman who struggles to find acceptance in a black community that prizes lighter colored skin tones.
Simultaneously, she herself rejects those students whom she deems “not of her class” – ie, southern blacks who come to the school in order to better themselves.As the novel continues, Emma Lou leaves California for New York City and the birth of the Harlem renaissance.
But again, Emma Lou also perpetuates the discriminatory attitudes with biases of her own.Like many “breakthrough” novels, this one was important, but not very well-written nor very interesting.
About half way through the novel I was growing tired of her playing the role of the victim and the martyr but, after thinking back on the opening chapter of the novel, I came to realize when one is scorned and berated since their birth from not only their community but from their own parents and family as well, then of course it would lead to a self-actualization of being a victim, the butt of jokes, and worse still, as a second class or, as in Emma Lou's case, a third class person.
The Board of Education.With all that being said, read more Wallace Thurman.
Thurman skillfully shows the hypocrisy of this phenomenon in the experiences of his protagonist, a "black" woman who struggles for social and personal acceptance in a society that favors "high yellow" or "light brown" skinned people.
There are some clumsy moments and some aspects of the longer form that Thurman struggles with (his second novel, _Infants of the Spring_ I think is much better), but there is no denying the power and poignancy of his social critique in this work.
It's a sad, frustrating thing to read about occurring in the heyday of the Harlem Renaissance, yet even more depressing to realize it is all too real and relevant today.It was hard to like Emma Lou, the main character, her mind having been so poisoned by experiences and the people around her.
I read the entire book wanting so much for her to have a moment rooted in self-love, that when it finally appeared, it didn't feel like enough.
(On a related note, I'm curious as to why the author chose for it to be a white man's words that finally aided to empower Emma Lou.)
I originally gave this book a four-star rating.
Thurman's writing style is mesmerizing, and his characters are as memorable as they are though-provoking in nature.
Upon recollection, what made me change my rating was Thurman's bravery and honesty.
Bravery in addressing a subject matter so taboo at the time, which led to sections of his own peers in Harlem's literary ranks to distance themselves away from him, and honesty in expressing the shameful beliefs shared between members of the African-American community (which still hold true to this day) with such brashness.
A brashness that was much needed.
