https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23316.Round_Ireland_with_a_Fridge
Had Hawks tried to do this in a less prosperous part of the world a good part of the narrative would have been concerned with attempting to rescue the fridge as it was repeatedly stolen or impounded for alleged customs violations.However for reasons possibly not even known to the author, but alcohol may have been involved, he got involved in a discussion that terminated in the assertion that Irish people were so nice, what with that natural tendency to good natured kindliness of theirs, it would be possible to hitch-hike round Ireland with a fridge.
This is a gimmick travel book, and the gimmick is awesome: the author made a bar bet that he could travel around Ireland with a fridge.
And by "travel," I mean "hithchike." Unfortunately, that's the funniest part of the book.
The rest of it - I got the feeling the author hadn't quite settled into his narrative voice in a written medium; much of it sounded like the kind of prolonged story that'd be hilarious if someone told it to you while you were having a couple of drinks with him.
That doesn't really make for a book, though.Ultimately, this is a forgettable book with an unforgettable concept.
Completely ridiculous and fun. A British man drunkenly accepts a 100 pound bet that he can't circumnavigate Ireland while hitchhiking with a small fridge (which ends up costing him 130 pounds). It's heartening to see all the people who help him out and really get behind his quest. Hawks has a real gift for laugh-out-loud funny writing. And there's something moving about the whole journey, too--the insight that can come from doing things that are a bit silly. Makes you want to find a household appliance and head out on the open road.
This was a fairly entertaining book which does exactly what it says on the tin. Lots of laughs included and Hawks personality certainly shines through. Having been to Ireland myself, I can certainly appreciate the craic! It's not going to change your life but still worth the read about an entirely unique and wacky bet!
But ridiculous.It reminds me of my travels from when I was in college, when much of the excitement was a direct result of me and my friends being stupid and broke, and consequently everything around us goes wrong.
Except he's probably still a little less broke, a smidge more competent, and a whole lot funnier than your average idiot on a college road trip.
One drunken night, somebody wagers that Tony Hawks, a British comedian, can't or won't hitchhike around Ireland with a fridge in tow.
He does so, as the title of this comic travel memoir makes clear, which is hilarious.Unfortunately, there isn't much more hilarity once you get past the title.
And to be clear, Tony Hawks did crack me up approximately a dozen times.
Really cracked me up.
But a dozen laughs over the course of an otherwise deeply unfunny, ploddingly dull 250-page book qualifies as a bomb.My advice: smile at the narrative embedded in the title and skip the book.
Generally interesting enough , quirky and cheeky in many ways. I think a lot of the humour didnt work for me but may do for those reading it from a non Irish view point. Things that may seem a bit mad to some all felt very mundane to me so didn't grab me really.Still a fun enough book and an interesting look at what people will do if they hear about something going on on the radio.
Honestly, one of the funniest, happiest books I've ever read.
He's definitely got a way with humor, which I'm sure lended to my enjoyment of the story :) Also throw in that Ireland is a beautiful and enchanting country (I recognized many of the locations from my visit to Ireland a few years ago), and that the Irish are an amusing and lovely culture -- and I was smitten with his story :) Overall, this book was definitely a thumbs up for a traveler such as as myself -- but I can see how many different people would enjoy reading this.
Travelling from Dublin to Donegal, from Sligo through Mayo, Galway, Clare, Kerry, Cork, Wexford, Wicklow–and back again to Dublin this a story of the people he meets along the way.The fridge actually become more of an asset that Tony Hawks originally expected, helping him get rides, free accommodation and even pick up woman.
As a travel memoir I expected something like Bill Bryson and while the comedy is there I think there was more opportunity to teach people about Ireland and its culture.
The touching tale of a man and his fridge, this is the story of English comedian Tony Hawks who, for a £100 bet, hitch-hikes around Ireland in one month with a fridge.This book really shows the good of people and the lengths some will go to to help someone else with no thought of reward.
It's sad to think that this sort of thing would increasingly be harder to accomplish as people turn more inwards and less likely to help one another.At times laugh out loud funny and at other times philosophical this book is a great read.
I really need to learn to listen to that voice.Round Ireland with a Fridge is the memoir of British comedian Tony Hawks.
I’d never heard of Tony Hawks (maybe because I’m not British), but the book sounded delightfully pointless.
While they were drunk the night before, the friend bet Tony 100 Pounds that he couldn’t hitchhike around the circumference of Ireland with a refrigerator.
It’s about a guy with a bad hangover who spends a month dragging a fridge from pub to pub in Ireland.
What a fun book about a guy who lost a bet and thus hitch-hiked around Ireland with a fridge. (A true story.) I don't think I've ever laughed out loud as much as I did with this book. My only "complaint" would be that there wasn't enough info about the actual cities that he visited--I would have liked to learn more. The focus was really on the people, friendships and pubs. Definitely a fun read though if you're into travel books and can see the humor in hitch-hiking around Ireland with a fridge!
3.5 stars.This was, quite possibly, one of the corniest and most campiest books I've ever read.It was awesome.I'll be honest: I would never have come into contact with this book had it not been for a giveaway at my college's library.
If you read the summary and feel the itch to read it, then read it.
The summary keeps no secrets about what you're getting into, and Tony Hawks owns every bit of this crazy story.ROUND IRELAND WITH A FRIDGE was a unique and endearing celebration of kitchen appliances, hitchhiking, and humanity.
(Not that I would have necessarily liked that any better.) Every time he gets to a new place, he then goes to the local pub and meets the local characters.
He's probably a great guy, but I'm having trouble connecting and since the book is JUST him (and a revolving cast of characters who the reader never gets to know because TH is constantly moving on to the next ride and the next B&B and the next pub; and the fridge, which doesn't talk), if you don't REALLY like TH, there's no point in sticking around.
This book written by the British author/comedian Tony Hawks, not the American Skateboarder Tony Hawks,and is a hilarious adventure into the Republic of Ireland where the odder you appear to be, the more you are embraced by its people.Round Ireland with a Fridge is a true story, about Tony Hawks who took a bet that he could travel around the Republic of Ireland with a fridge, only by hitchhiking within one calendar month.
The bet being for 100 pounds.
The ridiculousness that ensues within this book is fantastic for giving anyone who chooses to read it a well deserved lift!
"The more foolish, illogical, or surreal one's actions were perceived to be (and mine surely fell into one of these categories), the wider the arms of hospitality were opened in salutation."Tony Hawks knows how to make you laugh, even when you don't want to.
In the first pages of recounting how the sordid wager to travel around Ireland with fridge in tow came about, Hawks paints a picture of the bizarre.
One starts to wonder why the rest of the world can't be like the quaint places that Hawks visited, where absurdity, pointlessness, and doing things for the heck of it are things to be admired and welcomed.

I'm so glad that didn't scare me away, because this book is really funny and contains a terrific story.
One thing I would have like to see included was a map of his route.
For more information about this book, please visit the Macmillan's website.Apparently, someone made a movie of Tony's travels.
For information about it, click here.For more information about the author, please visit Tony Hawks's website.I'd like to thank Ana from my book club for lending this book to me.
Round Ireland with a Fridge by Tony Hawks, Thomas Dunne Books (St. Martin's Press), ©1998.
In a way, it captures a super-concentrated life, as Tony experiences quite a lot in just a month.
For a minute, for a day, for a week, Tony connected with these various people, and reading about that, to me, was inspiring.The book is also about embracing life and all its craziness.
In this book, Tony, instead of waiting anxiously for the curveball to hit, throws himself at the pitcher, practically screaming, "HIT ME!" He experiences all the wackiness of life by going after it, realizing the beauty in it.
The book is courageous, bold, inspiring--and of course, very, very funny.
Originally published on my blog here in February 2000.Tony Hawks once did a comedy show in Ireland, and saw the bizarre sight of someone hitch-hiking with a fridge as though this were a perfectly normal thing to do.
Telling this to a group of friends back in England led to a drunken bet that he could hitch-hike all the way around Ireland in under a month, with a fridge.The story of the journey is amusing, but the reaction he gets is much what you would expect, bemused but genial helpfulness.
I was actually living in Northern Ireland at the time of Hawks' trip, and my impression was very different.
I didn't laugh once-maybe British humor is beyond me, but it seemed to me he was looking down his nose at the Irish, and seemed to think they were all nutcases-this from a man trailing a mini-fridge.
It would have interested me more if he wasn't a celebrity attracting attention-seems like most of his rides were pre-arranged due to the publicity.
And there were way too any pub visits and too little about places and people he wasn't trying to pick up or impress.
I kept thinking of what Bill Bryson would have made of it.
Following a late-night bar bet, Tony finds himself setting out from Dublin with a small fridge on a trolley, a rucksack and high hopes of hitchhiking around Ireland.
Some of the humor is a little crass; occasionally more than I really need to know about a few things, but generally a lot of fun.Kinda wish I'd read this before my visit to Ireland last year...but I now have a few new places to put on the itinerary for "next time." A good, off-centre companion to Pete McCarthy's "McCarthy's Bar."
I don't think I've ever been as disappointed with a book as much as I am with this one.
Unfortunately, I don't think I laughed out loud once while reading it.
At first I was worried that maybe I had become immune from the hilarity of the usually unpredictable, charismatic and idiosyncratic eccentricities of the Irish due to having travelled a fair bit round the country myself, but then I realised that that couldn't be right, as Father Ted and other Irish characters depicted in film and tv still made me laugh.No, the main problem with this book is its author, Tony Hawks.
I would suggest sticking to the day-job, but considering that is as a stand-up comedian, I don't think that is a very good idea either.
At one point he called Irish stepdancing 'River Dance', which is sort of a pet peeve of mine and which makes clear how little Hawks (who's from England) actually knows about Irish culture.
He was also really creepy to all the attractive women he met, going so far as stalking a woman he was interested in (who'd been on her second date with some other man) and complaining multiple times about how she hasn't called him.
Hawks' behavior throughout the book reflects the historical nature of his country-- both are violent, self-entitled and imperialistic.
I'm glad to have this disgusting book off my bookshelf.
What a delightful book!
The Fridge Man had it far too easy, relying primarily off of his own publicity in order to get rides.
As it was, this book was a lighthearted testimony to the absurd.
Which was pretty fine by me.The back of the book had promised that it would owe some to Bill Bryson, and I found that it did, but without some of Bryson's more endearing style.
The book wasn't all that intellectual, and generally was light reading, but that aided rather than deterred from it's overall casual style.So, I'd recommend this as some fun summer reading to my more Irishly inclined friends.
An unimportant book...but a damn fine one.Whether you've been to Ireland or not, this book will absolutely entertain you. From its author's ups and downs to the incredible and boundless hospitality of the Irish people, I could not stop laughing. For those bound for the Emerald Isle, ask yourself: What Would Tony Do?
Amusing story about traveling through Ireland with a refrigerator. Some parts are really funny, and Hawks has an engaging style of writing. There isn't much of a story but I love Ireland, where I spent my honeymoon, so the setting was great and Hawks for the most part describes the people there perfectly. Recommend!
Very funny and highly recommended. Tony takes on a bet and travels around Ireland with nothing but himself and a fridge. He meets some amazing people. In some cases they don't even ask him why he has a fridge. Like it's normal or something. Read it!!!!!
You may learn a little about Ireland by reading this. There are a few laughs but overall its ridiculous!
