https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/253984.A_Time_of_Gifts
There is darkness, but it is the kind of darkness that the story needs, a supportive depth that allows us to appreciate the worth of our Guide.Fermor has two gifts that allow him to do this.
I got such a sense of Fermor from what he told me on the side, the way that he shaped this story.
Of course near the end Fermor gives us a taste of the un-retouched voice of his 18 year old self and leaves us to judge.
Some storytellers outshine the story- Fermor is one of these.
There are a lot of good stories in this book, but in the end, he’s the best one.
This first volume, of three, appeared in his 62nd year.Leigh Fermor’s departure from London takes the form of a lengthy description of his steamer, the Stadthouder, pulling away from Irongate Wharf under Tower Bridge on a rainy night.
Though he was a terrible student — a scrapper and practical joker it seems — he ended up a formidable linguist, who, only a few years later during the war, along with his unit--he was in uniform by then--successfully kidnapped a German general in Crete.
Particularly interesting was how one almost watches him pick up German, writing about the change of dialects along the way.
This book will forever hold a special place in my heart because it is the first one my son, Jameson Michael Floridia (Jem for short), read: Actually, it was more like this:Hopefully, some of Fermor's aesthetically magnificent, dazzling images will dance like sugar plums in his little head.
Maybe one day he will be a Wandering Scholar...Hopefully, Konrad's words will reside latent in his subconscious: "'You see, dear young, how boldness is always prospering?'" (205).Hopefully (but not likely), I will be able to restrain my new-fatherhood joy and not include him in every subsequent review...but one more for the road:"He saw himself as a Wandering Scholar.
This is a remarkable book; the account of an 18 year old who decides to escape England and walk from the Hook of Holland to Constantinople.
This first of three volumes starts in Holland and moves through Germany, Austria, Czechoslovakia and ends in Hungary.The book captures a world about to be torn apart by the rise of Nazism and Leigh Fermor comes across them and they are generally unpleasant; in contrast with most of those he meets.
He records the amused reactions of people as he walked and acted out bits of Shakespeare or read poems and other bits and pieces that he recalled.
Now I fully realize that I have no right to ‘review’ a book of which I’ve read only about forty miserable pages, plus its bloviating introduction.
You’re really, really, really smart and you know a whole bunch of archaic and rarely-used words, and therefore we should feel as if we have somehow failed you if we don’t appreciate your masturbatory wordiness for the poetry it is.
Forty pages (plus introduction) was more than enough to know that I hated this book with the white-hot heat of a thousand suns.
To enjoy A Time of Gifts you will only need to possess an interest (even a passing interest) in at least one of these three things: the English language, descriptions of land and city-scapes, and the history of European art and culture.
Of course his capacious intellect, his effortless recitation of obscure and fascinating points in Middle European history connected to his travels (his obsession with the Thirty Years War colors this travelogue in a similar way that Rilke's Brigge Notebooks are colored by his obsession with the deaths of French kings), his open-mindedness and ability to communicate and find commonality with practically anyone, despite barriers of language and culture; all these things, yes, but also because the guy had balls.
Leigh Fermor deploys recondite words, the names of painters and poets, and the weighty facts of history, neither to express deep sentiment nor to communicate insights, but as mere ornament.George Elliot both anticipated and perfectly summed up Leigh Fermor in Middlemarch, in the character of Will Ladislaw—another young Englishman with vague literary and artistic ambitions who travels to the continent to bask in the culture: “rambling in Italy sketching plans for several dramas, trying prose and finding it too jejune, trying verse and finding it too artificial, beginning to copy ‘bits’ from old pictures, leaving off because they were ‘no good,’ and observing that, after all, self-culture was the principal point.” This description fits Leigh Fermor to a T—the total aimlessness, the nebulous hopes of someday writing a book, the amateurish sketching that Leigh Fermor himself is careful to denigrate.
He did keep a travel diary (though he lost the first one, when he left his backpack at a youth hostel in Munich for a day, after having met a pair of schoolgirls who took him in) so the book is liminal in so many ways: the observations of a young man interpreted through the experience of himself much older; the fascinating layers of history encountered in villages, cathedrals, castles, and towns across Germany; the shadow of what was to come as Hitler had just taken over within the past year, and had his eye on Austria.What was incomprehensible back then is gloriously rich to me now--but that's after years of accumulating context, from Huizinga's thoughts on the German Renaissance (and those who disagree with him) to the language itself, to having hitch hiked along the exact section of the Danube, roughly between Melk and Duernstein, which Fermor considers one of the most beautiful river valleys in all of Europe.
Erudite and entertaining. A gem!
A true masterwork of travel writing.
His descriptions of the landscape and the people he interacted with are as fresh as if they happened yesterday, and yet he was reconstructing this journey nearly 40 years after the fact.Although he was in a sense travelling rough – he took very little with him, was often worried about money, and pretended to be a student, an assumed identity that proved to be “an amulet and an Open Sesame” – he also managed to wangle invitations into castles and aristocrats’ homes.
Curls flow and lace or starched collars break over the black armour and the gold inlay; they glance from their frames with an aloof and high-souled melenacholy which is both haunting and enigmatic.And to stand for the strange political ruin of the lands in which Fermor wandered, there's the symbolic gold key once worn on the uniform of a Hapsburg court chamberlain--But now the Empire and the kingdom had been dismembered and their thrones are empty; no doors opened to the gold keys, the heralds were dispersed, the regiments disbanded and the horses dead long ago.With one book, Leigh Fermor makes an easy leap into my "favorites." A Time of Gifts is magical, Pale Fire-, Speak, Memory-magical, richly responsive to nature, art, people and history, and with a style so perfectly evocative that you think of sorcery.
At the time of his departure (1933), the Nazis have just come into power in Germany and Fermor walks through that fair country, giving us the odd juxtaposition of ideologues and Black Forest stereotypes, fanatics and Old Country Romantics.
It's all in the approach.Finally, it should be noted that A TIME OF GIFTS is the first of two books, the second being the continuation of Fermor's walk in the woods of Europe (BETWEEN THE WOODS AND THE WATER).
At the tender age of eighteen, on the cusp of adulthood and having been expelled from his last school, young Patrick Leigh Fermor decided to go on a walkabout through the pre-war Mitteleuropa wonderland, all the way to the distant minarets of Constantinople. These are some of the people and things that he encountered along the way:1. Goose-stepping Brownshirts and beer-swilling S.S. officers “The song that kept time to their tread, “Volk, ans Gewehr!” ---often within earshot during the following
At the tender age of eighteen, on the cusp of adulthood and having been expelled from his last school, young Patrick Leigh Fermor decided to go on a walkabout through the pre-war Mitteleuropa wonderland, all the way to the distant minarets of Constantinople.
Village stores stocked to the gills with Nazi paraphernalia		“…swastika armbands, daggers for the Hitler Youth, blouses for Hitler Maidens and brown shirts for grown-up S.A. men; swastika button-holes were arranged in a pattern which read Heil Hitler and an androgynous wax-dummy with a pearly smile was dressed up in the full uniform of a Sturmabteilungsmann.”But also:3.
After reading his enchantingly rich travelogue, I feel that I literally lack the words to express my amazement.
I don't know whether I admire more his adventurous spirit, his acute ability for observation of persons and places of a now obsolete eras, not to mention his insightful remarks on art, architecture, geography, clothing, music, foods, religions, languages.
For me personally, the main theme in his books, the kindness of strangers, will never seize to touch a sensitive chord, and I will most definitely read more about his adventurous life and travels.
infuriating. the long stretches of five starness (and there are many of 'em) contend with as many instances of passages ground to dust by severe overwriting; as great a command as fermor has over the language, the lush, too often, drops into the masturbatory. and that breezy british omniscience? it just grows tiresome. it's those who are mad and sloppy and damaged who truly excite. i.e. christopher hitchens's (certainly a descendent of fermor) dry, reference-packed, know-everythingness is tempered by rage, combativeness, ugliness. in short, this reader requires his authorial voice... a bit more fucked.
The exceedingly popular Wild did nothing for me but put me in a bloody state of mind while the other two memoirs add something both to my understanding and to my enjoyment of the world.Rather early on in this book, Fermor makes glancing reference to his time in Crete when he captured a German general and secreted him away in a cave, something for which he would ever be famous.
It is Fermor looking at it, thinking about it, and speaking of it that makes the river a marvel of space and time.
First published in 1977, the book begins with an introductory letter to Xan Fielding, whom Leigh Fermor met when they were both SOE officers organising the resistance in German-occupied Crete during World War II.
The book has its genesis in those discussions with Fielding, and is coloured by Leigh Fermor’s subsequent visits to the places he had visited on his journey as a young man as well as his experiences during the war.
Leigh Fermor's narrative chronicles an adventure in a setting which still exists, but in a society that is long gone.
Have you ever so adored a book that you feel that everyone in the world should have the authors name on their lips and you want to buy every copy so you can force everyone you know to sit down and read it right now?
But that the same time this book is so special, so truly unique in your life and also the universe, that to read it is sort of like the time in the Wizard of Oz when it all goes from black-and-white to Technicolor and only truly worthy people deserve moments like that so you also want to keep it a secret and never put in the hands of someone else a book that is maybe the fullest expression of what it is to be young and alive and human?
That is how I feel about A Time of Gifts.
Patrick Leigh Fermor (1915-2011), one of the most outstanding travel writers of the 20th century, wrote this book in 1977, describing events that occurred when he was eighteen years old, in 1933.
This first volume of that journey describes his experiences until he arrived at the borders of Hungary, subsequent volumes picking up the story at that point.Leigh Fermor is a masterful story-teller, never afraid to digress, who wonderfully evokes the times, people, and places he encounters.
struggled....) As a result, I literally chipped away at it, reading it in chunks - some smaller, some larger - over the course of more than a year (which, for me, is highly unusual).
Most telling is that I discovered, and read the first three (3) installments in Anthony Powell's acclaimed period-piece, the A Dance to the Music of Time series, during that period, and I kept thinking that, if this book/series were fiction, I'd expect the characters to continually cross paths as the two series progressed....Stepping back, Before Bill Bryson, before Tim Moore, and in a world far away from the railroad tracks that captivated Paul Theroux, Patrick Leigh Fermor went walking....
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
In 1933, at the age of 18, Patrick Leigh Fermor set out on an extraordinary journey by foot - from the Hook of Holland to Constantinople.
What elevates this magical book are Patrick Leigh Fermor's gifts as a writer and the resultant delightful prose; his enthusiasm for knowledge and learning which peppers every page; and his personal charm which makes him as welcome in aristocratic homes as hostels or the homes of farm workers or labourers.
Patrick Leigh Fermor also provides an alternative cultural history of central Europe.
I was, perhaps, ten or eleven when my father took me to the film "Ill Met By Moonlight." This was not a filmic interpretation of Shakespeare but rather a rousing tale of derring-do on the island of Crete in the depths of World War Two. Leigh Fermor, dashingly played by Dirk Bogarde, was part of a team of British Special Operations Executive operatives who infiltrated the German occupied island to organize the Cretan resistance.
In 1944 After three years on the island Leigh Fermor then led the team that captured and successfully evacuated the German commander on Crete, General Hermann Kreipe.
It conjours up a lost pre-war world of Middle-Europe including the different states of Germany and the new states setting up as the Austro-Hungarian empire fades – with a huge variation in language, dialogue, dress and (a common theme) alcohol now largely subsumed by Globalisation.
Setting off from London to walk from the Hook of Holland to Constantinople at the end of 1933, Fermor dives into a land of marvels that was largely swept away by the second war, already brewing as he makes his winding way with wide-eyed wonder and zest for every new experienceHis description is unrestrained verbal extravagance, yet never loses its vivid immediacy, and while historical detail occasionally overwhelms, the balance and pace of the telling bears the mark of a master storyteller.
It's as stridingly exuberant, as sun-bright, emotionally resonant and as unearthly at times as that unforgettable opening page of 100 Years of Solitude.
The next book covers his travels from Budapest to Constantinople: Between the Woods and the Water: On Foot to Constantinople from the Hook of Holland : The Middle Danube to the Iron Gates.
I will have to read that too!!!If my own knowledge of history had been better I would have given it 5 stars.......
You learn not only about his travels and the landscape and the people he met on his journey, but also how history has formed all that he saw.
The books are written many years after his travels.
Il libro probabilmente soffre di essere stato scritto decine d’anni dopo il viaggio, così che la vita minuta che sarebbe stato piacevole leggere è svanita insieme a un diario perduto: rimangono i paesaggi e le immagini dell’Europa del 1934, all’alba del nazismo.
Si sente la mancanza di un filo conduttore, Fermor racconta poco del protagonista, non volendo evidentemente rivelare troppo di se stesso.
C’è lo stesso cielo di metallo, neve e uccelli che l’hanno accompagnato per mesi nel suo viaggio a piedi.
Una precisazione: questo libro racconta solo la prima parte del viaggio, il resto è raccontato in Fra i boschi e l’acqua.
But there's much more to this wonderful non-fiction book than just exquisite writing: by retelling the journey that he undertook as a very young British man, in the thirties, and which brought him to Holland, Germany, Austria, and the next door Eastern-European countries, P.L.F. brings back to life with much poignancy an old Europe that is gone forever.
Everything that he writes about is enthralling and enchanting: the landscapes he crosses, the history of the places he discovers, the people he meets, the ways of life he describes...
I read this book slowly, savoring each word, each vision brought back to life, each emotion born from the images that PLF has conjured.
Fermor had a privileged but unconventional childhood, and in 1933 at the age of 18, skipped out of an expected career path to walk across Europe to Constantinople.
This is his account of the first half of that journey, and what makes it unusual is that Fermor did not write this book until more than 40 years later, and then it was in the form of a letter to an old friend from WW2.
Patrick Leigh Fermor spends part of his journey rather unhappy how few poems he can remember by heart, and in only, like, five languages.
A lot.I read A Time of Gifts while doing some wandering of my own through the countryside of Myanmar, exploring pagodas and palaces, learning about the terrible history of that little-known country, and making halting attempts at the Burmese language.
And despite the fact that I realized I was having a fabulous, eye-opening time that not a lot of people will get to experience, I thought "But Patrick Leigh Fermor would have done this and written about this at least twenty times better."
