https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/622106.The_Nutmeg_Tree
With keen insight into people’s minds and hearts, and an uncanny sense of social class distinctions during the previous century in Great Britain, Margery Sharp writes with compassion, understanding, and a great sense of humour.This poignant tale is of an estranged mother who is called upon by her daughter to help her marry the young man she desires, despite her grandmother’s and her guardian’s disapproval.
Yet, how to retreat when she hasn’t the funds to return home and her daughter still needs her?This book has great wit and humour, coupled with many snags and tangles that are both funny and of serious concern to the characters involved.
Stifled by the kindness of her very proper and rather rich in-laws, she leaves her daughter Susan with them to be raised and returns to life and work in London.
I particularly enjoyed the description of Susan’s grandmother: "It seemed to her more likely that her mother-in-law was of the type, not rare among Englishwomen, in whom full individuality only blossoms with age: one of those who, as sixty-one, suddenly startle their relatives by going up in aeroplanes or marrying their chauffeurs…"The story itself isn’t exactly full of surprises; you can tell from the tone of the writing that everything will work out for the best.
"There were beautiful ladies in white hats, less beautiful males who were evidently going to pay for what the ladies consumed; and at the sight of so many drinks Julia's heart fainted within her.
She not only needed a drink, she was damn well going to have one.Julia turned round and slowly retraced her steps.
As far as I can tell, they are all funny, light-hearted, very British, and primarily concerned with the escapades of smart ladies.Now, for our cocktail: Julia wants a Manhattan, so she'll have one, and so will you.Manhattan2 oz bourbon or rye1 oz sweet vermouth (aka Italian vermouth)Dash of Angostura bittersMaraschino cherryCombine the first three ingredients in a cocktail shaker with ice.
Preposterous fluff which tries to be deep about it.
He took her home to his family and returned to the battlefields of WW1; shortly thereafter he was killed.Julia had a daughter, and for several months, did her best to play the widowed Mrs. Packett, knowing, however, that she wasn't "their sort." Eventually she returns to London and relinquishes parental rights to young Susan, leaving her to be raised by the Packetts.
The ending is a bit abrupt and the reader is left to fill in the blanks somewhat, but still, one is left with no doubts that the intrepid Julia will make her happy ending.For any Betties (and you know who you are):Julia is neither an Araminta nor a Veronica.
Susan is in love but her paternal grandparents and guardians have other plans for her.Julia was a nineteen-year-old chorus girl when she woke up with Sylvester Packett, a WWI soldier who was passing through.
Julia tried to fit into the refined and quiet country life.
if she had never been good before it was not because her spirit was unwilling, but because the flesh was so remarkably weak."She passes pretty well until she meets Susan's young man Bryan and realizes they are two of a kind, both a 'bad' sort.
Theatrical and big-hearted Julia has been happily estranged from her daughter (the product of a WWI-era dalliance with a doomed soldier) for 20 years.
Then she receives a letter asking for her assistance with her daughter Susan's pending engagement; Susan's very proper grandmother does not approve of the match!
So Julia must journey to a tiny French village near Aix to re-connect with the rich side of the family and to meet this fellow who has captured her daughter's heart.
This book is full of social satire, loving descriptions of fancy bathrooms and explicit details of fashion and millinery.
In the first place, before stumbling across it, I was unaware of Margery Sharp's adult novels, having only been acquainted with her children's books like The Rescuers.
I hope this isn't a spoiler but the ending too was a revelation; I think the only way to describe it is as "speculation" on the reader's part.
Like you've been observing these people for a few days at a grand hotel, getting a little acquainted with them all, but now you observe them loading luggage into the car, about to head off, and you have no time to say goodbye.
Its up to Julia to sort things out in a way that the headstrong and always right (no really, she is) Susan will not suspect.
Naturally, Julia attracts trouble from the outset and all along the way, but it is when she meets Sir William Warren that she knows she's really in for it.
Julia's storyline was wrapped up and so were the others, I realized, when I gave it some thought.
Those who enjoy light and romantic modern historicals written from a contemporary of the times should definitely give this one a go .My thanks to Tantor Audio for providing this book in exchange for an honest review.
Upon meeting the young man, she discovers that he is made of the same cloth as her and thus not suited for her daughter.Julia is an unconventional lead, especially when considering that the book was originally published in 1937, but Margery Sharp succeeds in making this idiosyncratic character a warm and endearing one.
Julia does a lot of soul searching while entertaining us with her easygoing, if a little mad, charm.I hadn’t heard of Margery Sharp, even as the author of The Rescuers, until I found several of her novels being re-realeased as ebooks.
I for one shall try more of her books (probably Cluny Brown: A Novel).
She has lived her life for the adventure and serendipity she craves.
Now she meets in France for counsel toward a marriage decision for her daughter.
The daughter is straight laced as they come.
My problem with it was the ending.
It's an ending for the 1930's silver screen and of course optimally happy with wealth and love in abundance.
Not impossible, but in a real life scenario of a Mother who has made these choices?
Maybe Sean Connery in his prime.
It's slow and would not be appreciated by the moderns who wants "lots" to happen or tons of sex or foul deeds.

A delightful, light-hearted, entertaining novel from 1937 that manages to celebrate its sexually adventurous female protagonist in the midst of a romantic comedy. Fun!
Well written, very funny
I recently read this NYT essay about Sharp, and remembered that this book had been on my to-read list at some point, and then a bunch of Sharp's books went on e-book sale and I bought this (and several others).
And then, this:So then I remembered why I stopped last time.
But that essay was fresh in my mind and I really did want to read something light and a bit silly—which this, a story about a flighty sort of woman whose daughter summons her to help convince her grandmother to let her get married, and hijinks ensue—was.
Review in progress
Julia Misbehaves (1948)https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0040498/...
Summoned to the south of France by an impulsive message from the daughter she hasn't seen since infancy, who is seeking approval of her intended marriage, Julia immediately identifies the young man in question as a "wrong one," but how can she convince her besotted daughter?
Julia's "misbehavior" (leaving her daughter to be raised by the father's family, taking up with a series of male companions, and ending up having to sell off furniture to pay the rent) might not seem utterly damning today, but on the novel's publication in 1937 this lifestyle would have raised some eyebrows.
Julia is portrayed with so much sympathy and humor, though, that we embrace her follies as part of her inimitable verve and zest for life.
This book, first published in 1937, tells the story of Julia, a London showgirl, who spent a week with an upper class British officer, Sylvester Packett, in 1916.
That resulted in a pregnancy and the honorable Lt. Packett returned to London and married Julia.
So Susan invited Julia to a guest house in France to meet the young man.
The young man, Bryan, was a trained barrister who wanted to marry Susan (who had a nice inheritance) and then to wander around Europe with her.
Julia discovered that this flighty young man was not a good match for her serious daughter.
Miss Bianca was adventurous and clever and had a lushly round shape, all of which is also true of Julia, the heroine of this 1937 novel for grown-ups.
(Headwear seems to be highly significant throughout.) Once in France, Julia thinks, “Hey, I’m almost out of money, but five francs and some red lipstick should get me to a casino in Aix,” but instead of making her fortune there, of course, more antics ensue.
My tiny pocketbook edition was published in 1942 and says on the first page, In order to cooperate with the government’s war effort, this book has been made in strict conformity with WPB regulation restricting the use of certain materials.
Margery Sharp’s The Nutmeg Tree has one of the best opening chapters I’ve read in a long time.
She won’t come out because there are two men outside who want five pounds or they will repossess her rented furniture.
By the end of the chapter, Julia has gotten out of the bath—but only after swindling the two men and a pawnbroker.
We also learn in the first chapter that Julia has been summoned to France by a daughter she hasn’t see in about twenty years.
Susan needs Julia’s help.Read the rest of my review at A Bookish Type.
This charming comedy of English social manners is a real delight.
When Julia is left widowed after a very short marriage, she decides a staid middle-class life in the country with her new in-laws is not for her.
Leaving her little girl in their care she escapes to a more exciting, if precarious, life.
But when her daughter Susan thinks some maternal support might help her to persuade her grandparents to let her get married she invites Julia to visit.
But as Julia has always been an unconventional mother, the results of this visit are, to say the least, unexpected.
Julia, thirty-six-ish ex-showgril, is invited by her daughter Suzanne to join her and Suzanne's paternal grandmother in the South of France.
As Suzanne was entirely raised by her grandmother and now wants her frivolous mother's help in an ongoing battle over Suzanne's boyfriend Brian, mishaps and mayhem can not be far off.
Julia recognizes Brian as one of her own sort, i.e. wholly unsuitable for the priggish Suzanne.
Unfortunately, her focus on preventing the engagement gets distracted by pressin money worries and the arrival of a distinguished-looking gentleman.
Julia Prockett prances and gambols through the story, never worried for more than a moment.
This was a fun romp thru London and France.
Twenty years later, the daughter summons her mother to France to Grandmother give approval for her own marriage.
This is not a tear filled drama, mother is quite the character!Made into the movie Julia Misbehaves with Greer Garson, Walter Pigeon and Elizabeth Taylor.I found comic point - Julia is reading The Forsythe Saga by Galsworthy on a train to Provence.
Garson was in both Nutmeg Tree movie and Forsythe Saga!
I adored the Miss Bianca books when I was a kid, so I was intrigued by the ad for the ebook reissue of Margery Sharp's adult books.
As was promised in the ad during the Book Riot podcast, this freebie was a feather-light diversion--a comedy of manners from the 30s.
It has held up very well as a study of character, love, and knowing yourself, and it doesn't end up in a predictable way.
Though I will say that, being as it is a comedy, love does triumph.
I'm intrigued enough by this one to consider buying some of the others.
The Nutmeg TreeThe Nutmeg Tree by Margery Sharp is a delightful character sketch of Julia, a vivacious no-longer-young woman who lives by her wits and luck. Her story is intriguing, but her personality and her thoughts (which we are privy to) are so lively and entertaining that I promise you'll be looking for a continuation. A lovely book!
How can you not love somebody who sings in the tub while forestalling creditors with somebody else's antiques? And that's just the first scene.A very fun read for a summery afternoon. I knew this author only from her Bianca books which I read as a child; it's even more fun to discover her novels for adults.
The cover on hand makes this look like awful pulp trash, but it's really not. Instead, Sharp has written a light, carefree love story, and done it well. While the plot could easily run to being silly, bland, or completely boring, it does none of the above. It's probably more of a 3.5 than a full 4 stars, but it was still really engaging, and made SEATAC-SFO go very quickly indeed.
I really enjoyed this story! The character, Julia, was so interesting and I loved how the author let me know her inner thoughts and motives! I would have liked to see the ending be more, but still, a lovely read!
4 stars because this book was such a pleasant find. Never heard of the author but some research matched her with Barbara Pym. Very different writing style but very elegant and insightful. Bonded with the characters. Looking forward to reading more by Margery Sharp.
