https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/624122.The_Man_Who_Folded_Himself
Daniel also has a stab at a heterosexual relationship with even more mind-blowing consequences.I love this cover, it is the edition I first read decades ago.The Man Who Folded Himself literally* breaks my brain with its timey wimey weirdness, but there is also a surprising degree of sadness, pathos, and philosophical musings.
This is my personal favorite time travel novel, it may be a little weird, uncomfortable and even kinky to some, but it blows my mind over and over again.
Even the cover art rings a bell:I suspect Heinlein’s stories predate The Man Who Folded Himself .• The Bootstrap Paradox explained by the Doctor.________________Quotes:“You don’t understand.
Deft and timely even now, Gerrold's unapologetically gay Danny is mildly surprising even in the modern SFnal world.
It takes nothing away from the central and beautiful idea of the book, the inner life of an infinity of people contained in one-many-same-different body-brain-spirit.I worked and worked to make that sentence make sense and I think I was only marginally successful, but I don't know how to make it better.
If I figure it out, I will change it.That's a better review of this book than any I could have dreamed up before.And that quote:My body has not experienced its years in sequence.
So many great books out there, and then I come across this one that manages to mobilize, outwardly, all the things that go through our own minds about ourselves, our dreams, our sexuality, and our agency in our own lives.And all it does is take the form of a short Time-Travel novel.
Amazing.I mean, seriously, let's just throw out all paradox and assume, just for a moment, that all time travel iterations are possible.
:)So is this a fantastic Time-Travel novel exploring all the far reaches of time and place, or is it an introspective novel exploring himself and everything that it means to be and to grow older and sometimes wiser?Well, both.
I'm loving my time-travel kick!
کتاب راجب یکی از موضوع های مورد علاقه ی منه یعنی سفر در زمان شاید واسه همین دارم بهش ارفاق زیادی میکنم ، چون هیچ توضیحی داده نمیشه کمربند دقیقا از کجا اومده و چرا الان دست دنیه و ایراداتی مثل ساده کردن موضوع سفر در زمان و اینکه شخصیت اصلی تقریبا به هر دوره تاریخی که دلش بخواد میره و میتونه حتی روی حرکات مسیح رو هم تاثیر بزارهاما خب این ایرادات به نکته مثبت منجر میشه و شما رو با کلی موضوعات فلسفی و تاریخی رو برو میکنه پایان رمان هم خیلی جذاب بود
The potentials of time travel take the loneliness, the quest for self-knowledge, and the futile quest to understand why we exist as ourselves to the most literal and profound extremes.
The (almost) omnipotent protagonist Eakins constantly reshapes the timestream he exists in to suit his changing personality, and thus all his character developments become quite literally reflected in the world around him.
The book is written in somewhat subdued diary format, which helps communicate the central issue of the plot: the developments of Daniel Eakins' character.
It was also one of the most personal, intimate, and philosophical books I've ever read.
The pages all but turn themselves.The story is about a boy who opens a box, and finds a belt in it, and a journal.
The belt allows the wearer to time travel.
I don't believe in time travel, but yet it's my favorite sub-genre.
And this is my favorite time travel book.
The book starts with one simple sentence (paraphrasing from memory): "In the box there was a belt and a book." Just remember that as you turn the pages of The Man Who Folded Himself you are reading the book that was in that box.
There's genres, sub-genres, and sub-sub-genres.
Science fiction is a genre; the time-travel story is a sub-genre; and, I would argue at any rate, the time-travel story where you end up having sex with yourself is a sub-sub-genre.
Someone must have written a dissertation on it by now.
I'm guessing that All You Zombies is marked as the first time the idea is used by a well-known SF writer (no doubt the author of the dissertation has managed to locate several unknowns who got there before Heinlein).
And yes, I got that, but I also got a lot of ruminations on how time travel works, how it affects the world, and how it affects Dan. This book is full of lots and lots of internal monologue.
Not even much time travel, when compared to the amount of thinking that goes on.A very large portion of that thinking was with respect to sexuality.
. .(view spoiler)[The main character, Dan, goes backward and forward in time enough, and returns to the same places enough, that he encounters himself a lot.
Then the the book took a turn that was odd for me, when he has sex with himself.
But a true literature of ideas, looking at identity and self through the lens of time travel, through one man (and all the versions of himself) and how he chooses to use it.He is not a representative man, that's for sure.
He is self-absorbed to a fault, choosing, once he has acquired a time travel belt, to socialize only with himself.Note: The rest of this review has been withheld due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.
In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
When Daniel Eakins Uncle Jim passes away, he inherits a time machine shaped as a belt known as a time-belt.
Will the choices he makes affect the time stream as we know it and ruin the world?
Read on and find out for yourself.This was a pretty good but weird time travel story that I got for a friend as part of an ebook swap I participated in at an online book club.
I liked all of it but ignored the sex parts.
If you like time travel stories, def check this book out.
It is available wherever books and ebooks are sold.
Quite a trip...
هر حادثه هر تصميم و هر اتفاق مي تواند منجر به خلق دنياي ديگري شود، جهان هايي موازي در كنار هم پر از "من" هايي با تصميم هاي مختلف.اين كتاب روايت زندگي "مني" هست كه مي تواند در زمان سفر كند و حتي با تغيير حوادث و اتفاقات با خلق "جريان زماني جديد" دنياي ديگري رقم بزنداو حتي "من" هايي كه جريان زماني خلق شده را مي پيمايند ملاقات مي كند، او حتي ميتواند به عقب برگشته و يك جريان يا اتفاق را پاك سازي كند كه اين خود نيز منجر به خلق جرياني جديد مي شود.
Brilliant little story full of my favourite classic time travel tropes and plots.
Dan was ready to toss the belt when he noticed that it was actually a time travel machine.
And hence comes the gambling, the meeting past and future selves, the multiple timelines, and the sex with...
I'm very happy with the cycle of Dans and Dons and how their past and future selves change the timelines of each other.
But he resolved it quite smartly in the end.For a novel of 1974, it bravely addressed homosexuality, and included, of course, self-cest, because what's a classic time travel loop without self-cest.
So, my journey through the catalogue of time travel novels continues.
This was recommended to me by a Goodreads friend and I instantly liked the quirky, funny start to the story.
The humour ran out pretty quickly though as it started to delve, pretty deeply, into the logic and theory of time travel (can we really change the past; do we create parallel time streams, and all of that).
I love all the questions it poses, the endless possibilities, the chance to rewrite history and to change your life again and again.The story starts with Dan receiving a timebelt from his Uncle Jim and once he figures out how to operate it off he goes through time.
This is what each of us would think about as we travelled through time.However, this makes the book read like a work of non-fiction.
I was reading a work of fiction but it often felt like an essay on time travel, not a story.I enjoyed the book and would recommend as a good time travel novel.
Which is not at all a bad thing.Any story about time travel, where the protagonist changes history in his own timeline, is sure to be confusing, but I'm not sure whether the confusion here is in my mind or the author's.
These two ideas seem in conflict, and I'm not sure whether it was Dan or the author who couldn't figure it out!This made my dad my son-in-lawAnd changed my very lifeMy daughter was my mother'Cause she was my father's wife…I'm my own grandpaI'm my own grandpaIt sounds funny I knowBut it really is soI'm my own grandpaUltimately, the story seemed like a self-indulgent piece intended to see how much he could confuse his readers.
Time travel is full of big ones'Daniel Eakins receives a time-belt as a legacy from his deceased uncle.
Paradoxes of time travel make it more interesting.
Daniel Eakins plays with his time belt to the fullest like nobody ever did.
Gerrold's novel is much of an unconventional work which also manages to present the psychological turmoil of a time traveler.
But the writing is simple and enjoyable.Any other work would present time travel as an adventurous thing where the protagonist shows off his prowess and you get the feeling that 'Wow,this is amazing'.
But Gerrold's work, as I already stated is way too unconventional.
_زمان چیز مسخره ای می شود، اگر آن را به طور خطی تجربه نکنید.
هر وقت خسته می شوم، می خوابم.
بی معطلی خودم را به نزدیکترین ساعات شب، حالا چه در گذشته، چه در آینده، می رسانم و می خزم توی رختخوابم.اگر خسته نباشم و شب شده باشد، یک راست می روم به صبح و کنار ساحل قدم می زنم.
یا به زمستان گریزی می زنم و کمی اسکی می کنم.
به هر زمان که می روم، تا هروقت دلم بخواهد آنجا می مانم.
من دیگر برده ساعت نیستم، حتی برده ی فصل هم نیستم.
دیگر روی یک زمان
تو شاهد مرگ خودت خواهی بود و باز شاهد تولد خودت.من خودم همیشه فکر میکردم تخیل و این نوع روایت های علمی و تخیلی مختص سنین جوانی و نوجوانی است، چون در آن سنین است که همگی رؤیا پردازی می کنیم، ولی این کتاب مثال نقضی بود بر این تفکر من.
Gerrold's The Man Who Folded Himself is really the first time-travel story I've read.
Before the story comes to its maybe-logical conclusion he explores the logic of the system he stumbled into, ponders problems of the ego (who are you in a world of infinite yous?) and free will, and eventually finds a comfortable place in a recurring spiral of infinite universes he helped to create.If I have a single complaint about the book (besides the unspectacular prose), it is that it may be too short.
Very highly recommended for anyone whose thought about exploring the time-travel sub-genre of science fiction.
مردي كه خودش را تا كرد ديويد جرولدرضا اسكندري سالهاست كه ادبيات علمي تخيلي در گستره جهاني مورد توجه 
I would read pages, then pause and think.
I would think about what I would do if I was given a time traveling device.
I would wonder if I would do the same things as the protagonist.
I wondered if things would be different for me, being a black woman, and if I could casually stand around and watch history unmolested.
This book had me thinking so many things...
and it was wonderful.
I highly recommend this book.Oh and the way the author explains time travel and all the paradoxes it may cause was clean.
read this rather short novel and find out how.
Marvel at all the dumb things that infinite copies of our narrator(s) Daniel do as your mind (and his/theirs) gets completely bent over the small course of 148 completely amazing pages. I will never, ever forget this book! Probably the best time travel book I've ever read.
But today I came across what was apparently a bestseller upon its release, and still considered one of the best in its genre, but I’ve never heard of it and I don’t think it’s even carried at stores like Barnes and Nobles.David Gerrold’s The Man Who Folded Himself is a 1973 science fiction novel about time travel, and it is the strangest, most fascinating take on the subject I’ve ever encountered.
The book starts in 1975 with Daniel Eakins, a college student whose uncle passes away and leaves him with a Timebelt, a belt that allows its wearer to travel through time – backwards, forwards, stopping moments and speeding up action.
Gerrold does a brilliant job of showing this event from the viewpoint of Dan as he travels forward for the first time and then, 24 hours later when Dan naturally ages into tomorrow and becomes "Don", from the point of view of "Don." That is the amazing wonder of this short novel: the author's fantastic ability to subtly change the perspective of the main character, Dan, as he lives the life of a time traveller.
Dan, himself, sometimes does (but most times doesn't) realize the effect his time travelling is having on him.
(Because its not really time travelling at all!)How does a time traveller live?
First, however, I have to tell you that I loved the basic idea of this book.
I do have to tell you that some parts of the book were just weird and these I didn't spend too much time thinking about (you'll know them when you get to them).
Overall, this is really a good and very fun read, but you have to read it slowly.The story is told via the medium of Daniel Eakins' diary.
He also tells Daniel that he is worth $143 million.
Very fun novel and yeah boy, full of those paradoxes and their consequences (or lack thereof) that I dearly love reading about in science fiction.date read: June 2004
I know I gave this 3 stars which is supposed to suggest "I like this book" according the GoodRead pop up bubbles.
But I didnt like it.
I didnt enjoy the book either.
Its more of a philosophical musing and study of the life of Daniel, who is a time traveller.
The rules of time travel allows all possibilities of choices to exist as layers on top of each other.
There is development in his personality as he experiences life as a time traveller.
Its for these reasons that I didnt enjoy reading this book.
For this reason alone, I recommend the book.
So much to think about here...this ended up being a lot more thought provoking than I thought it would be.I usually don't care that much for the first person POV, but here it essential. The paradoxes are alarming to me, yet not the normal ones you would think...the internal paradox is what's focused on here.
The concept of time travel has always fascinated me.... so I really wanted to like this book and for the first 30 pages (it's only 115 pages long) I did. Then the book got stupid and confusing -- far to introspective and barely readable for the last 20 pages. I know the science of the time/spatial continuum is confusing but this book didn't help make any sense of it.
من اهل داستانهای علمی تخیلی نیستم اما اگر بشود این رمان کم حجم را دراین دسته قرار داد، خوشحالم که چنین متن خلاقانه و هوشمندانه ای را خواندم (بنظرم کتاب علمی فلسفی است با چاشنی تخیل که جز لاینفک نوشتن است) .
داستان با این جملات آغاز میشود: درون جعبه یک کمربند بود و یک دفترچه خاطرات.
ماهها بود که عمو جیم را ندیده بودم.ظاهرا شروع ساده ایست اما تک تک جملات این کتاب تا انتها را باید باحواس جمع کنارهم در ذهن بسپارید.
سفر راوی به دنیاهای موازی و ملاقات با "من"های دیگرش ظاهرا با گرفتن کمربند و دفترچه خا
من اهل داستان‌های علمی تخیلی نیستم اما اگر بشود این رمان کم حجم را دراین دسته قرار داد، خوشحالم که چنین متن خلاقانه و هوشمندانه ای را خواندم (بنظرم کتاب علمی فلسفی است با چاشنی تخیل که جز لاینفک نوشتن است) .
ماه‌ها بود که عمو جیم را ندیده بودم.ظاهرا شروع ساده ایست اما تک تک جملات این کتاب تا انتها را باید باحواس جمع کنارهم در ذهن بسپارید.
سفر راوی به دنیاهای موازی و ملاقات با "من"های دیگرش ظاهرا با گرفتن کمربند و دفترچه خاطرات شروع می‌شود و به مهمترین مفاهیمی که انسان درگیر آن است(تغییر سرنوشت، مرگ...
Here are the two comments I made while reading the book:I am getting real sick of this book - all these what ifs and how many people there are.
So, when I first started reading the book I thought it was really good.
Then it started getting good again and I really enjoyed the ending.
I'm giving a 3-1/2 star rating because of that later redemption.
As an aside, I saw the book was published in the 1970s but there's reference to CDs and I thought did they have some giant version of a CD back then?
