https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/200754.Sweet_Bird_of_Youth
Čitajući predgovor pomislila sam da nema šanse da mi se i ova drama dopadne koliko i prethodne Tenesijeve koje sam pročitala. Naravno, pogrešila sam. Ništa manje fascinantna nije od "Mačke.." ili "Tramvaja..", prodire u srž, postavlja nas na obalu ljudskih težnji da sačekamo buru emocija koja će neminovno doći kada se likovi suoče sa onim što je najteže, istinom o sebi. Jug koji Vilijams slika je poput stene koju zapljuskuju pomenuti talasi težeći da nakon katarze koju likovi dožive tlo dobije svežinu, ali ipak nakon bure sve što ostaje je muk. Tišina samospoznaje.
Their motives and emotions are crystal clear to the viewer...but I couldn't care less.The washed out, formerly stunningly handsome man tries to make it big, but is bitch-slapped by life and realizes he has not only lost the ones he loves, but his youth as well.
It's mostly a character development drama, with a plot I've seen before, and don't care about, and characters that I have nothing in common with.It's beautifully written and it's apparent that Williams is very talented and did the best possible job in writing this.
It's been a while since I've read any of Tennessee Williams's plays.
It has been quoted many times before, but Chance Wayne's closing lines as he faces the punishment for his many offenses encapsulates perfectly what Williams is all about:I don't ask for your pity, but just for your understanding—not even that—no.
Just for your recognition of me in you, and the enemy, time, in us all.It was a brilliant touch to have the transgressive young stud Chance traveling with a washed up actress named Alexandra del Lago.
In the play, both characters arrive at differently forking life paths, one positive, the other not.Williams is a treasure.
پرنده ی شیرین جوانی به گونه ای بازگشتی قوی به نمایش اول و محبوب ویلیامز باغ وحش شیشه ای است با فاصله ای ۱۵ ساله .
بین این دو نمایش هر چه از او خواندم مانند تابستان و دود ، شب ایگوانا و اتوبوسی به نام هوس راضی ام نمیکرد و به گونه ای کم کم مرا دچار دلسردی نسبت به ویلیامز میکرد اما پرنده شیرین جوانی یک بازگشت قوی به حساب میامد .
قصه ای در مورد عشق پسری نابغه ولی فقیر همراه با تکنیک های در هم ریزی مکان و زمان .
قصه جنگ استعداد با قدرت و جوانی با مفهوم زمان است .
Ένα εύκολο ανάγνωσμα ίσως λόγω της μεταφράσεως του Μάριου Πλωρίτη. Παρόλα αυτά δεν θα έλεγα πως με άγγιξε κανένας από τους πρωταγωνιστές.
Chance Wayne Dwelling in the Past Chance Wayne in Tennessee Williams’ play Sweet Bird of Youth is clearly no longer the praised figure that he once was in the town of Saint Cloud. Citizens of Saint Cloud used to adore and respect Chance, but now they repute him because of his past life decisions and his past sexual relations with Heavenly. Now, this former “Oklahoma” star desperately longs for his prestige back, but most of all he wants to rekindle his loving relationship with Heavenly and escap
Chance Wayne Dwelling in the Past	Chance Wayne in Tennessee Williams’ play Sweet Bird of Youth is clearly no longer the praised figure that he once was in the town of Saint Cloud.
Chance discovers that he cannot return to his past, and the major conflict of the play, content with the present versus the passage of time, develops.
Even though both Chance Wayne and Alexandra Del Lago originally journey to awaken past joys, they do both realize that these joys have passed them (3.122).
Chance Wayne and Alexandra Del Lago live in their past, and they wish to live in their past lives instead of living new ones.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
I related so deeply tears sprung to my eyes. Such a tragic, tragic piece--but, as typical of Williams, it has such great beauty. I want to read this again when I am past my youth.
Elia Kazan directed, Paul Newman played the leading male character, Chance Wayne, while Geraldine Page won recognition and a Tony Award for her portrayal of the leading woman, The Princess Kosmonopolis, aka Alexandria Del Lago.This three-act play is set in a town called St. Cloud on the Florida Gulf on an Easter Sunday in the late 1950's.
Kazan called "Sweet Bird of Youth", "the most truly autobiographical play Williams ever wrote" with the playwright dealing "with his own corruption and his wish to return to the purity he once had." The play moves uneasily between its highly personal, romantic character and the feeling of universality in its tragedy.Lahr's book and analysis encouraged me to read "Sweet Bird of Youth" as well as other works of Tennessee Williams.
و كعادة المسرحيات الأمريكية المعاصرة . 1960..تتميز المسرحية بسرعة الأحداث و تنوعها و تنوع الشخصيات و تباينها ..
I had a blast reading this play with my AP class that have never read any Williams before. "These characters don't seem very realistic to me," one 17 year old student, "Wait until you're in your 40"s," was my reply. The heavy drinking and pill popping Princess and Chance are perhaps my new favorite Williams characters- over the top at one moment, deeply tragic and sympathetic the next.
Best part: pictures of Paul Newman, obviously. Sharp themes. Second favorite part was someone else's annotations in this used novel. Kept referring to promiscuous men as pimps, which...nope.
I don't know what to write other than I really enjoyed this. I especially loved the stage directions (I'm not entirely sure why) & there were a lot of excellent quotes in the play about time and life.The main reason why I haven't given this book 5 stars is because I have a fear of giving out too many five star reviews to books.Maybe I'll write up a better review later, but I think that this basically sums up my thoughts.
I didn't like this play as much as the other works of Williams I've read so far. The characters fell flat and the plot didn't have the tension I've come to expect from his writing. I also didn't enjoy the dialogue and felt the first act dragged on for too long.
It may have been Paul Newman with his magnetic look?There are differences between the adaptation for the big screen and the original.In the film, there is an impression of characters being black or white, good or bad…there is no shade between.Chance is the hero, who comes back for his sweetheart and fights the dragon played by the girl’s father.Thinks are more complicated in the play: Chance is no angel and he caused a lot of pain to his girlfriend.
This sounds similar to his characterisation of Blanche DuBois in A Streetcar Named Desire, but in Sweet Bird of Youth almost every character is suffering from the loss of youth, and from chasing unrealistic and unattainable dreams.
Chance is both an overly brash, slightly annoying character, but also an incredibly tragic character, as he has been forced by circumstances to change from a young, sweet, innocent boy into a broken man with a drug and drink problem, fixated on regaining his childhood sweetheart and becoming a famous actor.
He simply cannot regain who he was when he was younger, like many of the other characters, as the "sweet bird of youth" has grown up and has flown away, never to be found again.
The characters, as always, seem like variations on other Williams staples I have seen, most notably with Boss Finley being a kind of riff on Big Daddy from Cat on a Hot Tin Roof.
Here, I can't say that I like any of them, but I did find Chance and the Princess compelling.Also, written later, this play deals openly with some things that other plays only hinted at: venereal disease, violence, gigiloism (is that a word?), etc...
There is definitely a raw power to dealing with these things openly.
I never thought that Williams was hiding anything.
p. 105 "I believe that the silence of God, the absolute speechlessness of Him is a long, long and awful thing that the whole world is lost because of. I think it's yet to be broken to any man, living or any yet lived on the earth - no exceptions"
The play with Paul Newman was produced in 1962 so it way ahead of what was allowed on TV in the 60's.I am not sure if young people would enjoy this play because it's really about loss of youth, manipulation, betrayal, hopeless aspirations and everyone's desperate race against time which is hard to understand when you are 21 and the whole world is out there for you to conquer.
It is hard once you get on in years and look back and find out that time has passed you by and you have not achieved any of the things you aspired to.
And by that measure I’m ancient.”___________________________Chance Wayne siempre fue un hombre atractivo; su belleza física cautivó a cualquier mujer que se le cruzase por el camino, incluso a Heavenly Finley, hija de un hombre muy poderoso quien en su momento prohibió la relación.
Luego de un tiempo fuera de la ciudad, Chance volvió en busca de su amor para enterarse del mal que en su momento le causó: le transmitió una enfermedad sexual.
“The Glass Menagerie”, una madre obsesiva, invasiva, y represora para con su hija.
“A Streetcar Named Desire”, mi obra preferida de Williams y la que tengo el placer de dar en uno de mis cursos; una historia de clases, sexualidad, y locura.
This is very much a slice of life play, what I've come to realise is Tennessee is a master at these types of scenarios, Streetcar is an exceptional example of this, but Sweet Bird of Youth was almost just as good.
I loved the dynamic of trying to capture your youth, and the realisation that it's of the past.
I also loved how innocence and purity were explored through Heavenly and her father.
Honestly I quite enjoyed this one, but only after I had gained a fuller understanding of it.
Tennessee is just amazing at exploring western relationships, it's insane !
I don't ask for your pity, but just for your understanding—not even that—no. Just for your recognition of me in you, and the enemy, time, in us all.williams makes a thing of prose-drama; the stage directions in this and some of the lines are poetic and a lot of them are pleasing to readthe plot was weak though and the characters were frankly dislikable; the ending is good but everything that leads up to it isntthematically it's very strong and i def see what williams wanted to get at here it just wasn't for me
It the kind of play that Williams excels at.
It's notable that the original theater production stared Paul Newman as Chance Wayne the prodigal son returning home for his last chance with Heavenly.
He is hoping his connection with the aging former superstar actress "The Princess Kosmonopolis"(who was played by Geraldine Page) can restore his vitality and give him the fame, success and life with Heavenly away from St. Cloud.
It's also notable that the music was composed by frequent Williams collaborator and well-known writer in his own right -Paul Bowles.
I am looking forward to seeing the film version and curious to see how much they left in from the play.
A great play of manipulation and betrayal and love with a really interesting plot. Personally I did not find myself invested in the characters which is the main reason I have given it 3/5. I would recommend it, but not over and above other plays of his like A Streetcar Named Desire and Cat on a Hot Tin Roof. I enjoyed reading it and the use of plastic theatre is very interesting.
The painful realization that happiness based on youth and beauty have a quickly approaching and unstoppable time limit is the basis for this play. Incredibly modern in its time, it’s now a bit dated; and yet its themes still hold true.
Problematic in the best way
tennessee williams is SO GOOD; he's my favorite playwright. i feel like the racial aspect of this play is a little uncomfortable, but theatre is a great place to be uncomfortable, right?
Very promising start. Develops quite well, but by the midpoint, it becomes quite clear where this is all headed and becomes anti-climactic quite quickly.
The characters are interesting enough. The plot has some similarities to the film Sunset Boulevard (1950). I was expecting more tension after everything that was going on.
I found the play to be a wonderful commentary on time and love.
Chance Wayne is one of the most inspirational, philosophical characters I've ever read.
Each line reads like a mantra.
All three acts grabbed my attention equally and damn does Williams have a knack for writing "dreamy" dialogue while keeping a realistic subtext between the lines.I highly recommend this play.
Especially if you love plays/novels that start off steadily in one direction than takes a huge turn in another.
