https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/625836.Make_Way_for_Lucia
Irene Coles of Tilling is unrepentantly lesbian, cavorting happily through the stories until she paints a picture so heavily ironic that it is voted Picture of the Year by the Royal Academy, a painting so jaw-droppingly awful that it is regarded as genius.In both the marriages made in Tilling, between the horrible Elizabeth Mapp and the boozy but weak Major Benjy, and then Lucia and Georgie, it is quite clear that the female wears the pants.
I have just finished rereading the complete Mapp and Lucia series and, though I would have thought it beyond the bounds of possibility, I enjoyed it even more second-time around.
Though the Great War is only just behind them, the people of Riseholme and Tilling give it not a thought, so deeply mired are they in the trench warfare of their own declaration.
The generals are Miss Mapp and Mrs Lucas (Lucia).
When I pick up this doorstop of a book, I can only echo the Foreword by Anne Parrish: "although my copies are warped from falling into brooks and baths, and their pages dotted with semi-transparencies from buttery crumbs that have fallen on them from tea-times, I cannot exhaust their freshness." In my case, the pages are wrinkled & stained from juicy burgers at Hot & Hunky, dabs of wasabi and vinaigrette from the salad bar at Harvest Market.Which is to say, these tales are addictive – and lucky is the soul who wanders into their quintessentially English pages, because she is in for hours and hours of pure malicious merriment.
These books present a quintessential fishbowl view of early 20th century priveleged English village life. The characters are so well-drawn that they're almost caricatures. They become family; they make you crazy sometimes, but just when you're ready to kick them out, they endear themselves in a way that makes you want to hug them to your chest instead. These are literally (ha! that sounds like a pun) some of my favorite books. I would take them to that proverbial desert island with me.
The GR description of this book is incorrect -- this is NOT the stage adaptation but is an omnibus edition of the complete 6 novels in the Lucia series as written by E.F. Benson.
I absolutely love this book.
It is actually a compilation of 7 stories about Lucia and Miss Mapp.
The first two stories are about Lucia which I didn't get too much out of.
But when Miss Mapp enters the story in book three, it becomes the most hilarious book I've ever read.
It takes place in a small British hamlet and covers the lives of certain individuals who live in the town.
The busybody Miss Mapp is the center of the story and I have never laughed so much as when I read about her adventures.
I can't recommend this book enough.
My life would have been much sadder had this book (these books, really) not have been in it. Went so far as to go on a pilgrimage to Tilling itself, where I learnt exactly how Mapp was able to spy on Lucia from the church steeple ....
Lucia, to acknowledge that, pressed a little more, and Georgie tightened his grip again to show that he understood, until their respective fingernails grew white with the conveyance and reception of sympathy.
So it’s a monstrous thing once combined, and mine sits beside my bed like a Gideon bible.* I can pick it up any time, start reading anywhere, and know exactly where I am and usually what’s going to happen.
(Elizabeth Taylor and Barbara Pym spring to mind.) The opening paragraph is quintessentially Benson, and I think it’s funny as stink.
Mapp and Lucia: The Complete Series contains all six of the Lucia novels, which are also compiled under the title Make Way for Lucia.
The novels, needless to say, are excellent -- particularly the first four.
You'll laugh out loud.This Kindle anthology contains no table of contents and is otherwise quite difficult to navigate.
The font, very difficult to read, is one I haven't seen since the days of IBM Selectric typewriters.
Considering Mapp and Lucia: The Complete Series cost a mere 99 cents, it's OK, but don't expect the usual Kindle quality.
In fact, every free Kindle book I've gotten has been of higher quality.
My mom lent me this book last Christmas. It's one of her favorites -- she'd been talking it up to me for a long time. It's a collection of seven novels about a character named Lucia, the town she lives in, and all her wacky friends. Takes place in England in the 1930s (or is it 1940s?). I've read the first two novels, and just started the third. It's a fun read. The characters are vivid and memorable, and their exploits are funny -- very entertaining.
This is the all-time sure-fire depression cure! Whenever I have the blues, I dip into this book. The War of the Chintz Roses; Mapp's underhanded efforts to steal the recipe for Lobster a la Riseholme, Georgie's beard, and Diva striving to keep her place as Queen of the Fete...A hysterical comedy of manners, set in Britain between the wars.
This book forever to read, but was worth it. I enjoyed the humour, and it's a very different type of read for me.
Had to read in few-chapter bits, because scary in an everyday way. The main women are mean, funny until the reader imagines being victim to their bullying. Lucia rules her small village into submission with pretensions to culture and Italian, until opera singer Olga, fluent, humble, kind, falls as a shining star. Elsewhere, Miss Elizabeth Mapp, jolly smiles outside, vengeful mean anger inside, bullies her village with demonic sweetness.1 Queen Lucia2 Miss Mapp3 The Male Impersonator4 Lucia in London5 Mapp and Lucia6 Lucia's Progress7 Trouble for LuciaPartial review for first two books.
This is the title, but I think it might also be called Lucia in London. I think it's #2. Such a joy to return to Lucia!
Really fun read. Fabulous and hysterical.
F. Benson's Lucia stories, and at 900+ pages it makes for some hefty lugging about; however, though one appears to be reading the condensed OED in public (which makes for more than a few raised-eyebrow comments), there are seven novels within these covers and thus far they are laugh-out-loud hilarious - when the reader isn't gasping out loud in horror at the social atrocities being committed, of course...I re-read Queen Lucia, which heads off the series, and enjoyed it just as much the second time around.
I have completed rereading...for the fifth time...that which I refer to as THE LUCIA ANTHOLOGY (all stories are contained in MAKE WAY FOR LUCIA).
With each reading, I laugh, I enjoy, and I continue to discover something new as to the wonderful world created for us by E.F. Benson.
Lucia, Miss Mapp, Daisy Quantock, Quaint Irene, Diva, Peppino...and of course...Mr. Georgie...bring to us a slice of England as it perhaps never was but certainly could have been.
Any who are Anglophiles and any who will allow themselves the time to escape into a "good read" should jump into the world of "Luciaphiles" and just enjoy.

Long before the word "frenemies" was coined, there was Mrs. Emmeline Lucas and Miss Elizabeth Mapp.
E.F. Benson's tales of the vicious schemes these two ladies--and their assorted hangers-on--engage in to maintain their social prominence (schemes that almost always go hilariously awry) are a must for any fans of Saki, Wodehouse, or that wonderful dry, sarcastic English sense of humor.
First time readers should tackle the novels in order because the inside jokes and daffy reoccurring characters carry on until the very last chapter of the last book.
Lovingl it.Just finished all 7 of the novels involved in Make Way for Lucia.
So well written and the characters are unforgettable.
When Lucia and Miss Mapp finally end up in the same village it gets even better and I was rooting for Lucia which I never suspected I would when I read the first couple of novels.
I have ordered the DVDs for Mapp & Lucia which was broadcast in England in the 80's I think.
The actors must have loved these characters!!!!!!!!
These villagers are so self=absorbed that the world could fall down around them and they would not notice.
I've read it, and read it again, and again, and again.
Now I'm reading it again.
This is likely the only book I have read as many times.
I can predict the dialogue and narrative as it happens.
And yet I keep wanting to read it again.
Can you tell I love all of the Lucia and Mapp books?
One of the things that happens every time for me is that my opinion of Lucia changes from bad to good every time as I meet Miss Mapp.
Benson does a fine job of creating a society where the main characters have nothing to do but entertain themselves and each other.
Nancy Mitford wrote the forward to my copy, so it makes me wonder if I will like it.Started over on this book and now I am beginning to enjoy it --- it is amusing so far.AJP recommended this series, and now I see why.
The characters are very well developed and entertaining.
The author, E.F. Benson, uses the technique of letting the reader know what is going on, while the characters are clueless and deep in interpretation and analysis of their little society --- and that technique is quite entertaining to the reader.Now I need to find the second book in the series, so I can continue to follow
This series from the Mapp and Lucia books onwards was my big find of out-of-copyright (almost) ebooks. Social satire about shallow, petty-minded snobs in an English village. Some of the books have a slightly odd rambling structure, but the comic timing and phrasing is spot on. I suspect the satire is more biting than it appears reading it 80 years later in New Zealand, as my English grandmother was a bridge-playing, organ-playing personality in an English village and I don't quite dare suggest to my mother she might read the books; I think she'll just get cross!
This is a compilation of 7 novels, so I'm taking my time with it, reading one between other books, sort of as a palate cleanser. Benson's tales of village snobbery in 1920s England are like a cross between P.G. Wodehouse's hilarious stories and the TV show Keeping Up Appearances. Hilarious, in my opinion, if a bit much read one right after the other.By the end I was tired of the characters. I would have liked to read the books further apart.
It took me years, starting way back in the 70s, to find all the Mapp & Lucia books! If my house caught on fire, they would probably be the first things I would grab to save, that's how much I love them. I can pick one up...any one of them, and just open it to any page and start reading! I have never tired of them. They are about the time and places in England I want to visit. My copies are all beat up from so much use!
This is the most fun a person can have with a book. The characters are delightful, timeless, and the writing is some of the best I've read. It can't be recommended strongly enough. For some readers, you have to devote yourself to the first couple of chapters to familiarize yourself with everyone, but stick with it - once you're sucked into the wonderful microcosm of Riseholme, you will never be the same.
I re-read this series every few years because it's so delightful and howlingly funny. The pretentious Lucia, her best friend Georgie, and Lucia's nemesis, the practical and plodding Miss Mapp are just hilarious. It makes you want to move to their little English 1930s village and see what they're up to...Highly recommended.
I was totally engrossed in this series of novels -- the stories are absolutely delightful. They are absurd in much the same way as P.G. Wodehouse's books are, but as the reader is drawn into the tiny but massively significant world of Lucia and her cohorts the sense of absurdity seems to fade. This book collecting all the adventures of Lucia and Miss Mapp is a treasure!
Looking at the reviews on goodreads I think it possible that I didn't give this book enough of a chance, but it was just too boring. I got so sick of everyone's eavesdropping, one-upping each other, completely foolish past times and obsessions. I love a nearly pointless British book with lots of quirks and wit, this one just didn't fit the bill somehow.
A friend who knows how much I've enjoyed reading Alexander McCall Smith's novels, recommended this series to me, and I am so grateful! I enjoyed every delicious bite of the social satire, every laugh, every character. These books were very good company for the last eight weeks, and I already feel I want to start re-reading them. Pure pleasure!
