https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/574925.Mystery_Train
It focuses on the origins of rock music in the blues and then profiles four completely different artists: Elvis, The Band, Sly and the Family Stone and Randy Newman.
I was blown away by the original Sun sessions of Elvis and grew an entirely new appreciation of Bob Dylan's work with The Band, Sly Stone's music as well as that of Mr. I Love LA.
It is a must read for fans of rock music and a magnificent testimony to the art behind the legends as well as the ethos behind the music.

He combines (or better to say assimiliates) varying traditions and social forces within American history and popular culture, beginning with an artist, a moment, a tone, a mood, an instance and expanding it outward into larger and more elegant circles of reference and obscure historical connection until we get a sort of folk gestalt, an x-ray if you will, of another seemingly endless angle on the American consciousness, which is experiemntal to the bone.
It has been fairly said of Marcus that "everything reminds him of everything else"...if this sounds like goop for cultural criticism this ain't your book.
If this sounds sort of like what one of his blurbs says of him: 'Marcus writes criticism like Dylan writes songs' then this just well be the book for you.
On a more positive front, I was reminded of the way he makes criticism part of artistic process, especially in the chapter on the Band.
The Sly chapter, especially the section about conservatism in '70s soul (which I kinda forgot) has plenty of balls for a white cat from Berkeley.
'the 70s section (winner" the '60s!), the Westerns/Orsen Welles comparison, lines like "the Band don't refer to their sources anymore than we refer to George Washington when we vote." Of course, there's also lines like "all the beauty of the world and the terror of losing it is in Eric Clapton's rock and roll." Yep, that's ALL the beauty.
Perhaps the most overrated writer on popular music - no, wait - that would be Dave Marsh. Both of those guys are more pimps than writers.
Heralded as the first academic examination of pop music and it's relationship to American life/culture, I had high expectations.
Long before many others cashed in on Elvis books after he died, Marcus carefully and respectfully illustrated Presley's influence on American culture and music.
Still, I think Marcus exhausted all of his Newman knowledge in the main, as the second section is an unreadable list of Newman's records, writing credits and guest appearances.Ultimately, "Mystery Train" has its place in the pantheon of rock books as a first-of-its-kind, and as a decent history in places.
Marcus wants it both ways: His only support for the importance of these artists is their popularity (though Elvis was the only one to achieve a long-lasting version of it) and his own opinion of them; Billboard chart positions and record sales can support the former, but we aren't left with much to support the latter.The discography section (which is about the same length as all of the preceding essays) does a better job of tracing the lineage of American music, though entire pages are simply a list of every version of "Stagger Lee" that Marcus could find.
He discusses enthusiastically the music of Harmonica Frank and Robert Johnson (the Ancestors), and The Band, Sly Stone, Randy Newman and Elvis (The Inheritors).
This is half the book.
The other half is Notes and Discographies, which was updated in 2015.
In his list of the Top Ten of Rock 'n' Roll versions of Robert Johnson's tunes.
In what would have been his 101st year, Johnson's song was sung by the President of the United States.
As if he'd heard it all his life.And that is just one of the reasons I LOVE President Obama.
This book may have been filled with interesting and relevant information, but the writing style was this terrible stream-of-consciousness nonsense, and the author kept comparing rock songs to classic lit books, like Moby Dick. Ouch. Also, the author (pronounced Gry-el Marcus)expected his reader to already have a ton of background information about the times and the music, which was annoying. This book was mainly useful to me (born in 84) as a primary document of what it was like to live in the 70s.
I like rock and roll, I like music, I probably listen to more genres of music than the average American, I like rock biographies, and I like American history - so why not read this book that is a modern classic and the reviews say I should read?
I read the first half, or tried to at least, and I skimmed the second half.
For me it would be better to read a biography of Elvis than this critique.
I would say that if you are a music critic or want to be one you should absolutely read this book pronto, because the writing is melodic in itself.
(Randy Newman!) Unfortunately, that is Marcus's most cogent chapter because he actually provides evidence for his "analysis" of Newman, which is more than I might say for his other chapters.In the chapter on Robert Johnson, for instance, Marcus claims that when Eric Clapton, in "Layla," hopes that his love will not be in vain, the listener can hear the torment of the damned (which somehow relates to something Robert Johnson might have said 40 years before Clapton sung that song).
Now, I've listened to at least two versions of "Layla," looking for this anguish, and I just can't see it.
Hated it.
Sharing with us his vision of how the quintessential American art form (rock n roll) has responded to and shaped the reality that we live in as Americans (collective work, rock does), Marcus writes like a lazy sociologist.
But his winding narrative is imprecise at times, a fact which underscores two things: 1) Marcus is a rock critic, embodying the music in all of its irreverence (he doesn't need to expand every idea or vague phrase he writes down because it would cheapen his own art); 2) rock n roll is itself entirely open to interpretation.
originally published in the seventies, updated in the nineties to include some things, like The Band's second incarnation, but not others, like Elvis's death. this left me always a little puzzled about when i was reading. which is not a problem for time-telescoped music like The Band's and Randy Newman's, but definitely changes how you view Sly and the Family Stone or Elvis. this is early Marcus and straighter criticism than he'll drift to later, less poetic swirling, more "get this reissue but not that one."still, fascinating, insightful, entertaining.
Had a new copy of this and decided to reread it. Glad I did.
I was excited to read my first Greil Marcus book (I had enjoyed his column in The Believer magazine and had heard others praise him as a genius), but was disappointed for two principal reasons.
The artists he covers in this book are beloved to him: Robert Johnson, Elvis Presley, The Band, Randy Newman, Sly Stone.
I never liked Johnson, Presley, The Band, Newman, or Sly (though I love many peer artists in their respective genres including Chicago bluesman, Carl Perkins, Neil Young, David Bowie, etc.), but came to this book open-minded and open-eared, ready to be swept-away by Marcus’ irresistible praise and unmatched enthusiasm.
I had never read Greil Marcus before and I'm not sure exactly what I was expecting.
If you are passionate about Sly Stone, the Band, Randy Newman, or Elvis, then this book has an essay that will intrigue you, but it's best to know something about these artists--the essays aren't really for the uninitiated.
These artists aren't exactly my cup of tea, though I recognize their value, but I would be interested in reading more of Marcus when he it talking about something I am more heavily invested in.
Waffled a bit on this, but ultimately I decided not to let the incredibly boring (oh sorry, "extensive" and "exhaustive") "Notes & Discographies" section detract from my enjoyment of the main meat of the book too much (though note - the "notes and discographies" section has actually become longer than the book itself due to multiple updates/new versions). As the book itself is concerned, the Sly Stone chapter was pretty decent for a white writer trying to explain black culture to a white audience, and the Elvis chapter was great.
Obviously, someone looking to pick up Mystery Train for the first time should go straight to the fifth edition and behold the expanded discography, which I'm pretty sure is now longer than the main part of the book. But the first edition is a triumph, and amply demonstrates why Marcus keeps going back to it once a decade or so.Basically, if you care about American music, literature, culture, history, and mythology, you have to read this book. And that's not something I'll say all that often.
This was the first academic book about rock I ever read. I still think that it is among the prime examples of the American Studies myth/symbol method applied to popular music. There are some awkward moments here--the discussion of Robert Johnson makes me cringe some now. But this book established the possibility for me of thinking deeply and knowledgeably about rock and roll as a cultural form.
There is something of the magic that Randall Jarrell brings to his poetry criticism here in Marcus's book. His approach in discussinng any given song is synthetic and creative, not just a description but an imaginative 'reading' that adds to your experience of that song. This is one of Marcus's gifts. He is able to add dimension to the work he discusses while at the same time educating the reader not just in the specifics of a song or an act but also in how to hear and experience the work.
I love non-fiction and I love biographies, especially those that center on musical icons. Unfortunately, I wanted to like this book much more than I actually did. Though I really liked the subject matter, I couldn't help but think that the author was just trying too hard to write "literature," rather than just telling the story. Bottom line: reading the book was more work than play.
My taste and sensibility don't overlap nearly as much with Marcus's as I'd assumed from his masterpiece LIPSTICK TRACES, but his word flair, deep knowledge, and passion make this an invigorating journey, even if one's affection for the likes of The Band or Randy Newman is (like mine) only a fraction of the author's.
A fascinating look at the origins and development of five musical acts: Elvis, Sly Stone, Robert Johnson, Randy Newman, and The Band. Sometimes his detailed history and mythology is hard to plow through, but it is a fascinating read for those who are obsessed with music. Because you will go to itunes and buy each album featured and listen with a new appreciation.
Closer to 3 1/2 stars than 4 - some brilliant moments, but you really need to (a) work hard to find them and (b) adopt a bit of Marcus's premises to appreciate them. Skip the Harmonica Frank section and go directly to Robert Johnson. And don't skip the discography and notes - great stuff
Academic,perhaps, although only for those terrified of footnotes. Dense, surely. Interesting, absolutely. For me, the reason I went back and listened to Thank You For Talking To Me (Africa). And for that alone, brilliant.
Very well written. One of the best books on Elvis.
But it’s because he did so that the book is so interesting.[2]The book’s thesis is that Marcus can somehow sum up his moment of rock ‘n’ roll by looking at the careers of six musicians/groups: Harmonica Frank, Robert Johnson, The Band, Sly Stone, Randy Newman, and Elvis.
“Elvis died when he went in the army,” they said, and I agree that he was a wild, more unruly and revolutionary singer before he made that unfortunate career move (which Colonel Tom Parker apparently thought was a good one).But I was completely thrilled by the songs Elvis sang when he first came back from the army (It’s Now or Never and Stuck on You), and I loved the movie G.I. Blues (though the prevailing opinion is that Elvis sold out in his movies and should never have done any of them.
He draws connections—that's what he's best at—unlikely connections between American rock music and literature, politics, and other arts (for don't you think politics is an art?), and like all critics who are worth the time it takes to read their work, Marcus sounds certain of whatever opinion he's asserting, continually making pronouncements that are, if not as incontrovertible as he's phrased them, at least plausible.
The thesis seems like a young person's, to this young person-- it draws maybe just a little too heavily a few core American texts (I love Huck Finn and Moby-Dick and "Studies in Classic American Literature," too, but can they and they alone really be said to capture the American experience?)-- but you just can't beat the music, man.
That Americans are as capable of transcendent beauty as they are of electing a cartoon character rapist to the highest office in the land.(I only recommend "Notes and Discographies" if you are very interested in whatever band Marcus is discussing...
