https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/774029.A_Gentle_Feuding
(So we're talking 1989-1993.) Now, having picked up A Gentle Feuding, I remember why I read JL back in the day with such speed and future lack of retention about any of the plots: Lindsey's style is very simplistic/pedestrian with the bonus of big print.As for this one in particular?
(How many times was that little phrase said by, oh, pretty much everybody?)It's great to re-read some of these oldies from my youth and realize that what I used to think were bodice rippers really aren't anything of the kind.
Even with a Scottish Highland clan blood feud as a backdrop and basis for the conflict, the story was mostly petty bickering.
And bickering.Heroine: a 'being-beautiful-is-such-a-burden'* beauty with red hair and a fiery temper who is nevertheless phobic about the hero due to clan exaggerations of his attacks against them.
The definition of quarrel, a) an argument and b) a square bolt used in a crossbow.
It was two quarrels too many in a dreary, screechy, superficial story.* She thinks something like this at one point literally.
I wish Johanna Lindsey wrote more steamier love scenes in her books.
This book was just so boring.I really thought I was going to enjoy it but I didn't.
But then when I got to the end I was so disappointed it was over and had to go back and reread all my favorite parts.Jamie was just the right combination of harsh scottish laird with a touch of gentleness for Sheena.
I don't know how you couldn't fall in love with the guy after this scene.[...] She was free for the moment and had a chance to run, but Jamie sensed her thoughts, and while he caressed her with his eyes, he soothed her with words."You dinna have anything to fear, Sheena.
Of course, it was a case of revenge from a distinctly different clan that causes all this mess.I actually liked Jamie a lot.
Sheena seemed like a pretty feisty heroine until she repeatedly refuses to marry Jamie.
Considering the time period and their attraction and the situation, I would have expected less resistance.
I also really liked Jamie's brother, Colen, who happened to kidnap Sheena in the first place.
The relationship between Jamie and Sheena was not nearly as entertaining as expected, because she seemed to spend an excessive amount of time refusing him.
Feuding Clans Deliver an Exciting RomanceSet in mid 16th century Scotland at a time of feuding clans that steal each other's cattle and engage in battle (and worse), this is the story of the MacKinnions and the Fergussons.Jamie MacKinnion, a handsome and powerful laird in his mid 20s had a bad experience with a first arranged marriage, the bride committing suicide before the marriage could be consummated because she was so afraid of a man's touch.
It was fast-paced, reminding me of what love is like between two strong willed people who love each other desperately.It’s not a "gentle" feuding at times which only adds excitement.
Scotland.Am I the only one who thinks this land is full of passion?
This book is set in 16th century and yes it is in Scotland.
16th century was full of events for Scotland.
Raised for many years as a son, the oldest and favorite daughter of Mr. Fergusson; Sheena is given one option to wed Jamie MacKinnion; the handsome and powerful divorced guy.
In the presence of her clan and his, before God, Sheena became wife to The MacKinnion.
The clans, also, were bound by the marriage.
Semuanya cowok cantik :'( Bayangan saya kalo soal Highlander itu mau yang wajahnya kasar dan gak tampan, tapi gahar gitu ....
Bahkan Sheena, nama Heroinenya, terdengar lebih 'cowok' Dan lagi, ada apa dengan wanita tomboy yang suka menyamar jadi laki laki?!
GAK SUKA BANGET!!INSTA LOVE --> Cek SUPER GANTENG HERO DAN SUPER CANTIK HEROINE --> CEK HEROINE TOMBOY --> CEKHERO YANG PUNYA MISTRESS DAN SLEEPING AROUND TAPI SETELAH KETEMU HEROINENYA YANG SUPER CANTIK LALU TOBAT --> CEK SAINGAN YG NYEBELIN DAN BERASA MAU LEMPAR SEPATU --> CEK KELUARGA YANG ANNOYING DAN MUSUH DALAM SELIMUT --> CEK SALAH PAHAM --> CEK HEA --> CEK CEK CEK Please deh untuk orang yang punya masa lalu pernikahan tak menyenangkan karena istrimu bunuh diri di malam pernikahanmu itu bukan berarti kamu harus 'mencoba' semua wanita sebelum kamu nikahi hanya untuk memastikan mereka gak mati kutu saat malam pertama.
Tidak ada yg bs memaksa Sheena Ferguson utk menikah jika dirinya tidak menginginkan.
Jamie hanya mau menikah lagi jika bisa mencicipi calon istrinya terlebih dahulu.
Di pembuangan, Sheena malah diculik Colen, yg ternyata adik Jamie.
Dengan bujukan sampai paksaan, akhirnya Sheena menikah dgn Jamie.
Baca saja.Saat membaca novel ini, saya "lelah" dgn kesalahpahaman yg tidak kunjung usai, dari awal hingga nyaris akhir cerita.
Celakanya ciri khas tsb lenyap di novel ini.Belum lagi karakter Sheena yg super dramatis dan sering plin-plan dan keras kepala, makin membuat jenuh kepala saya.
Begitu juga Jamie, sbg laird MacKinnion, dirinya tidak mempesona di hati saya.
she is the most beautiful and most beloved by her father.
She refuses to marry unless she is in love with the man.
Jamie MacKinnion is the laird of the MacKinnion clan and is rumored to be a brute of a man with a terrible temper.
Sheena has a great fear of this man so when she finds herself being kidnapped by Jamie's brother Colen and is held in the castle of the MacKinnions, she needs to find a way to escape.
I loved the suspense, romance and the strong characters.
I love a strong, independent, female character, and wasn't let down a bit.
This was one of the rare books I struggled to finish.
The characters were flat and annoying.
They spent the entire book arguing.
Jamie was driven by lust and knew absolutely nothing about the woman he claimed to love.
There were enough jarring uses of anachronistic language to kill the flow anytime I managed to actually get into a scene.
She's almost raped twice by supporting characters, and then she gets a spot of the old marital rape because Mr Man knows she likes his d too much to actually tell him no.
Read this one years ago and because I couldn't remember anything about it, I reread it again last night. Enjoyed Jamie & Sheena together. Reread January 2011.Reread January 2016.
Baca Gentle Feuding, kesan yg aku dapet, cuma sibuknya Jamie dengan obsesinya pada Sheena...Dari awal sampe akhir, cuma nyeritain Jamie yg harus dapetin Sheena.
Iya sih si Sheena ini mau dinikahin, tapi masa iya harus dicobain dulu, terus klo ga cocok ga jadi.
Kampret banget ini Laird.
Setting cerita ini ada di jaman para highlander, kesatria scotlandia, menceritakan seorang Laird di sebuah klan.
Aku ga ngerasain ada disana, seperti yg aku bilang sebelumnya, inti cerita terlalu fokus sama obsesi Jamie dan ketakutan Sheena pada Jamie.Tapi balik lagi ke selera masing2 ya, bisa aja kan klo kalian yg baca bintangnya bisa nambah.
Niall believed Sheena was going to be forced to wed the MacKinnion locked in their cell and after some questioning Jamie let Niall think he would beat and ruin Sheena if he had to marry her.
Sheena finally discovers she’s in the dreaded MacKinnion keep and is fearful of the laird she has heard so many tales of.When Jamie discovers the young woman Colen has locked in his room is none other than the beauty from the river he decides to stop at nothing until she is made his bride, not his brother’s.It was a little difficult to get involved in the romance between Jamie and Sheena.
AUTHOR: JOHANNA LINDSEY is a Romance, Historical Fiction, Fantasy writer.
Not easy to get bored in her books.
A GENTLE FEUDING is your typical Scottish Highlander fiction plot.
GENRE: Romance, Historical Fiction.SETTING: Aberdeenshire and Angusshire, Scotland 1541CENTRAL CHARACTERS: JAMES MacKINNION is clan leader.
WHAT I DID NOT LIKE: Could not the author have chosen to give him a little more backbone than he had?
Come on now!I give this book (3) stars.
Just your typical Scottish Highlander fiction novel but nothing that makes it really stand out.
Just a good historical romance read.
Read the 2nd time 1/20/2011Feuding between all the clans in the Highlands and Lowlands of Scotland seemed common enough.
The feud between the Fergusson and MacKinnion clans went deeper.
It was said that a Fergusson killed the grandparents of the MacKinnion's.
The peace between the natural enemies had been there for some time until the spring when an attack not only killed crofter's but the animals were slaughtered as well.
With the raiding of their lands she was unable to get there as often.Jamie is thought of as a cruel laird from the Highlands.
The guy is supposed to be all abut her, but most of the book he was angry or hurt, and that annoyed me they both give certain reactions without giving any explanation to the.My only favorite scene honestly was the fire incident where the Heroine was trapped with the elderly couple inside the cottage and her husband coming to the rescue.Overall, *thumps side-ways* it contained a lot of heartache and misunderstandings in my opinion, there wasn't enough balance between the happy moments and the sad ones.
And recently, during this madness to read historical romance, this is the book which I really remember and wanted to re-read it.
However, while browsing books in one of the bookstore, I decided to pick few books including this book and imagine my surprise that after reading few pages, this is the book I've been trying to find!!Sheena Ferguson to me is just a beautiful girl and a temper to match.
However, after much pressure from her family, she finally ready to marry for the sake of her clan.
I mean, who DOESN'T want to read a spot (or five) of marital rape in the morning?
I sort of feel like this weird project of reading and then reviewing a bunch of romance novels is backfiring on my greatly.
After the delightful first one with William Wallace, and then the super boring one that ended up being a DNF, and then the third venture, the fourth venture is one that actually made me vaguely nauseated in parts?
I honestly don't even think there was even a shade of an actual plot.
Johanna Lindsey is my favorite author.
All of these elements and more can be found in Johanna's books.
So buckle up for the intense ride!!!Sheena Fergusson and Jamie MacKinnion clans have been feuding for the past 47 years.
Sheena had always known she would have to marry to save the lives of her clansmen.
But what she did not bargain for was being forced to marry THE MACKINNION.
Read this book if you want to find out what happens when a beautiful nymph like lowlander meets the strong and controlled hot headed Highlander.

Good bookI have reading classics all day on my kindle. This is another one for me. I really enjoyed it. It is a stand alone and it took me about 3 and a half hours to read. Johanna Lindsey is one of my favorite romance authors since high school.
Not as good as The Bride's Portion, but fun.
Eh. Sheena struggles just a little to hard for my taste. I could have liked her character if she'd have tamed at least a tad when she finally gives up the ghost.
I loved this one! It was almost perfect!
3.75 stars
4.5 starsClassic Lindsey Highlander tale. Enjoyed it!
This was not my favorite of Lindsey's. The balance of quarreling with each other didn't work out as well as it does in some of her other stories.
omg—...I can not believe I found it. This is the book that made me realize I am a big homosexual who has a small thing for red heads! I need to re-read this!
