https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24289169-helmets-and-lipstick
5 stars - English ebook - I have dyslexia - - Foreign service!
I live in Holland and both grandparents were with the recistence.
My grandfather got Lucky, on the day they wanted to shoot him the GI 's got him out of his cell at Hotel Organge ( het Oranje hotel), the place the Gemans kept the Guy's and girls of the recistence before schootging them on the Waldorpervlakte ( the dunes of Scheveningen).
So I am still so grateful of the GI 's for liberale us in Holland.
This is a short memoir written by 2nd Lieutenant Ruth Haskell, an Army nurse who served overseas in North Africa during the first stages of World War II.
I checked it out because I love WWII overseas army nurses - they are the coolest people and hardly anyone knows about them.
This book was referenced in another, much more comprehensive nonfic I read about front-line nurses (it's called And If I Perish).
This memoir was simply written, very basic, and almost adorably dated.
If you have a moderate interest in the subject - or if you need research on the subject - I would probably recommend this book.
Typos make reading difficultInteresting look into battlefield nursing during the north Africa campaign, but multiple typos made reading difficult. "Moslems" instead of "Muslims", "he" instead of "the", "tm" instead of "I'm". And some I have no idea what was supposed to say. I'm not sure if these are proofread after converting to e-book, but this one really would have benefited from one. Overall, the experiences she shares opens a small window into what war is like for the unsung heroes of war, the nurses and doctors who try to make the wounded and dying comfortable.
This was truly an enjoyable read and opened my eyes to so many events I did not know about.
Although the US Army did not officially send women into combat during that time, the reality was that they were continuously in danger.
Her telling of her experiences truly filled me with a sense of awe.
At that time, it seems that all those involved were on the same page.
They truly believed in their struggle and quest.
The physical danger and hardship they endured is remarkable.
It sheds further light on that generation of men and women and what they gave and endured for their cause.
Even though the book doesn’t get into the graphics of the war the reader does get a sense of just how scary it was with the air raids, blackouts and being forced to move under the vail of nighttime.
The reader is also given a taste of the extreme homesickness one must endure especially during the holiday season in a time when just trying to get letters in and out of the war zone was extremely difficult.I think the thing that most impressed me were the deep friendships that were forged through the extreme experiences that the women endured.
This reader came away with the feeling that the bonds of friendship would last beyond the war.
I enjoyed the information found in this book, though it was sometimes hard to read.
This book tells the true story of Ruth G Haskell who was a combat nurse during WWII though she was on an North African tour.
Additionally she seems to write as if she's talking to you so it's a little different to read.
Additionally, I had to laugh at her because she always talked about being older and bigger than the other girls.
I would have enjoyed knowing more about Ruth's story after the war.
Like Reading a Personal LetterThis was interesting, and a quick read. Interesting, especially, because it was completed before the war ended, so Ruth had no idea how much longer it would go on. Not the most well written book I've ever read, but still good for gaining insight from those in the front lines and those who served as support during WWII. It's helpful for remembering that "war is hell", especially for the humanity that's caught up in the middle of it.
Rieview of Helmets and LipstickVery good read. The commander stopping the column to eat when his command was left in the cold without was poor leadership on his part. No self respecting officer or senior NCO would do that as long as his troops were doing without. You notice also that they segregated the nurses into a category separate from the other officers. Many times they refer to Officers, nurses, & enlisted.
Greatest generation a different perspective.A lively, interesting look at the girls who helped heal and care for the casualties of the North Africa campaign. What a gal! If you ever doubted the true grit of the American female during WWII, read this account to remind you of their courage and determination under the worst of circumstances. Highly recommended.
A very good readThis book, written while WW2 was still going on by an army field nurse, gives such great insight into what it was like to be on the front lines for medical personnel. My dad was in the medics during this war and I felt like I could see his young self working. It was a light read, nothing too heavy, but captures the tone and stamina of “the greatest generation “.
Loved this!As a retired history teacher I love reading accounts like this. My aunt was a commander in Navy and taught many naval corpsman. She also served in hospitals near Danang during Vietnam. I remember her calls to our family as a young girl and thought how exciting, but also it was scary. First person accounts of history are the best!
This short memoir narrates the short battlefield service of a valiant army nurse. Most of the narrative centers on the nurse's preparations and perilous journey to the North African battlefront. However, since she suffers a back injury on the journey, she is sent home after very little time at the front, so the narrative just ends with very little of what the reader wants to read about.
Tough nurses never die we just fade away.  I have read many books on military nurses and I am constantly reminded of there dedication and skill working long tiring hours without the comforts of home. the joy of helping others is so wonderful. God less the military nurses and  our soldiers. Christy retired RN
World War II StoryThis book is a story about the nurses who worked in the North Africa campaign. I got the feeling that it was to written to encourage nurses to enlist. Also, since it was written in the 1940s, it is very politically incorrect. It is interesting because it shows how the nurses lived and worked
I enjoyed reading this book.I have always liked listening to people 's stories as you sit and visit over coffee. This book reminds me of that. There are some grammar errors but as I'm not submitting this for a grade I don't care. I had trouble putting it down til I finished it. If a second book comes out I'll buy it to read too.
Excellent review of experience in African desert war.Training for combat nursing, traveling on the high seas, managing landing and commence treatment of patients. Survival amid narrow escapes.
This was way too much 'lipstick' and far too little 'helmets' for my taste. The war action doesn't begin until half way through the book, and even then reverts too readily to more 'lipstick'! I surrendered at the 3/4 mark !
Good read!This was a very interesting book! I have met several of these brave ladies and l am glad that you did justice to their stories; as well as, your own. Thank all of you for your service.
Absolutely greatWhat a wonderful story, although full of unfortunate events it was very inspiring. I never knew of all the hardships that were endured by the great nurses at this time
Intriguing I enjoyed this book. Lt. Haskell did a great job in telling of her experiences. Her story was easy to understand. The military lingo was introduced to the reader as she learned the terms.
! Wow! Another great historical read! Sorry if I repeat, yet when historical read, I booked from beginning to end. WWII Nurse and devotion of care to soldiers it's justbeautiful, my opinion.....loved it!
Well written. Thank for the nurses.they gave. 100 percent.. Thank you to all nurse were would we be with out them.I spent six months in a navy hospital nd the nurses and corpsman took great care of all of us.. my thanks to ya,all. The GRIZZ.
I have just finished this book for the second time. I know that I will read it many more times.I know that I will enjoy the book more and more. This book is more than a story, it is about real people.My aunt and uncle worked in medical unit and hospital in France and England.
Harrah for nursesVery straightforward and well written although too short! Ruth writes with her heart and mind. She relays her story as if you were there along with her. 15+
Very good, many do not know the role the nurses played in that war. Thanks for sharing the experience with readers.
Fine retelling of American nurses' experience in WWll Africa. Very readable, possibly from a diary.
Great readNice little book written during the war. Great perspective on a little known aspect of world war 2. Great narrative with equal bits of drama and humor throughout.
Army nursesA good account of murses during the war in Afrca. The traveling and tsking care of wounded soldiers fighting over there during WW11.
Very, very interesting .It must have been help living through this war and all wars.God bless all the hero's that have made all of us free.
Excellent!A look at the lives of couragous nurses in war. These women endured the same living conditions as our soldiers while saving their lives and health.
