https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19675.Executive_Orders
This book took me a year to read, not because of its length but because it's incredibly boring for loooong stretches, I would set it aside for months at a time.
Every few pages Ryan complains about the bad day he's had blah blah blah and bums smokes from people(come'on he's the pres somebody buy him a pack already!!)Clancy threw in everything but the kitchen sink in this book, it's just too much.This book is a perfect example of what is wrong with book publishing in the past decade.
Or better yet made in 2 books.
This book is the pinnacle of the Jack Ryan series of novels.
This book takes the Jack Ryan series to its ultimate height.As a Tom Clancy fan, I was naturally drawn to this book, but even if I were not a fan, I think this would have been a huge hit with me.
So much of what happens in the books could easily happen in the real world, and that is what makes them so good.
Reality is complex, therefore so are Clancy's novels.
If you have ever read any of the Jack Ryan novels, then you must read this one.
This was a 1358 page book - but it never felt slow and I was enthralled throughout.While sometimes Clancy's military maneuver segments were a bit over my head, they were interspersed with enough other action to keep it moving.A big thing I noticed about this book is that even though it was written in 1996, Clancy had a few plot lines that seemed like Nostradamus-esque foreshadowing to 20 years later.
And to complicate things, also attempts to kidnap the president's younger daughter and start an epidemic of haemorrhagic fever amongst America's car salesmen (you feel like shouting "Yay!" at that point)Ok, it's fantasy stuff (Le Carré always has the ring of authenticity, not least because he was a real spook while Clancy was an insurance salesman) and that's fine if it's well-written.
There's no humanity; we keep being told how much President Ryan loves his family but we never see any evidence; he never takes time to read his youngest a story, or play with his son, or have conflicts with his teenage daughter.
This book is a serious contender for worst book I have ever read that is not by Dean Koontz.
It is an excrutiating almost 1400 pages of awful dialogue, shocking misunderstanding of politics, simplification of international affairs, right-wing propaganda, and the utter ruination of a once enjoyable, if kind of silly, character--Jack Ryan.Maybe back in 1996, some people could be fooled by Clancy's ideas, but after the disasterous presidency of George Bush Jr., whose policies and thought process are often similar to Ryan's in this novel, this book is completely without credibility.
That should tell you everything you need to know about this one.
It could be confusing to those with a eighth grade reading ability.I read one cometary for a non american who probably doesn't read the news or understands what is truly happening in the world today or her country hasn't been attached at all since 1996.
She ignorantly equates the them of the book to 'The Men at Work' "Macho Macho Man." If she really read this book she would have seen plenty of "Macho Women," from other countries.I heartedly recommend this book for those with at least an High School education, any background in history that has more than 10 years in depth.Definitely not for the PETA, Code Pink crowd.
However, this book is definitely not the place to start the series; as a minimum, The Hunt for Red October, Patriot Games, and Debt of Honor should definitely be read before this book.Jack, due to the events detailed in Debt of Honor, suddenly finds himself President of the U.S., a position which he never aspired to and in which he feels decidedly uncomfortable.
But Clancy does a good job of detailing why these viewpoints should at least be given some careful thought by all Americans.
In some ways, I hesitate to write about this book because it’s been out so long that everyone who will read this kind of thing already has.
Clancy crafts this so as not to offend his readers too much; they won’t agree with every decision Jack Ryan makes or every policy to which he ascribes, but it’s written such that regardless of which side of the aisle you’re comfortable being on, you’ll cheer for the beleaguered president and those who want him to succeed.There are horrifying graphic scenes in the book.
I could not finish this book. 12 hours into the audiobook and I could take no more. I guess I am just not a fan of Clancy’s writing. Such quotes as “he loaded the papers into his briefcase, most of them were useless” and a 13 minute diatribe on what secret service agents are thinking. I bet you could edit out 30% of this book and still get the story across.
Tom Clancy believes in flat tax, military growth, keeping the judiciary constructionist, limited government, and reeling in a destructive liberal media.How do I know this?
Clancy spends pages on boring polemic doing his best Ayn Rand impression.
There's an attempt on kidnapping his daughter, an attempt by Iran to take over Saudi Arabia, a case of weaponized Ebola, a group of militia determined to blow something up in Washington, a secret service agent who is a.sleeper, the reconstruction of the government after its destruction, an attempt by a corrupt VP to.wrestle power away....tired yet?
The Mountain Men subplot of two bubbas trying to kill the President is tied up at the very end without them even getting close to Ryan.
And with the way Clancy likes to hint at what's to come in the next book, Kealty better come back with force because for all his bluster, he quietly defeats himself with no action on Ryan's part.Ryan's also a mixed bag.
But Clancy trots these strawman arguments like they're revelations of the supposedly super liberal society we all live in.And speaking of liberal society, Ryan's speeches are all GOP/libertarian talking points.
As usual with anything that Tom Clancy writes I am astounded at his breadth of knowledge of world affairs, the political no-how of nations including his homeland of USA.
This massive tome has kept me gripped to my seat as I want to know where Clancy will take Ryan and me next.
I am not finished yet of course, but already have given it a five star rating.
He weaves his various characters together in time and space so I know exactly who is up to what, and eagerly read on to see what happens next.
Not only was this the longest book I've read by Tom Clancy, but the longest book I've read, period!
But I quote Yoda from the Star Wars Saga, (Size matters not.
judge me by my size, do you?).
Executive Order picks up right where Debt of Honor left off, a jet deliberately crashes into the US Capitol, killing the US President, and thousands of other people.
PS, those of you who like Tom Clancy and haven't yet read Debt of Honor yet, I highly recommend reading that one first before picking up Executive Orders.
I think this is one of Clancy's top 5 novels - right up there along with "Hunt for Red October," "Wihthout Remorse," and "Cardinal of the Kremlin." It discribes the first few months of Jack Ryan's presidency, and the challenges he must face as other nations as well as those around him test the new chief executive.
This story gives the reader the most comprehensive insight into the character of Jack Ryan, delving into his conscience, his fears, and his relationships with those around him.
It is the longest and most complex of Clancy's books to date, but also, without doubt, one of his most engrossing.
Clancy was brilliant at laying out how possibilities can become realities in the area of foreign conflicts, and his books are very interesting except when I don't understand the vocabulary (sorry, I don't even know what AWAC stands for...I think it's a plane, though...).
He also liked to give us satisfying comeuppances for the villains; sadly, such endings are not often realistic.It would sure be wonderful if the current real-life Ebola epidemic would behave like Clancy's fictional outbreak.
God speed an effective vaccine!Oh, and did anyone else think of "Yes, Minister", the British comedy, while reading some of the interaction between Arnie Van Damm and Jack Ryan?
At this point, Tom was milking the series so much it was Gouda cheese straight from the teat.
Another classic, somewhat formulaic plot with a John Wayne ending.
Trying to up the hype, the expectations are so high, your brain can't hope, and you end up disappointed.
Maybe Tom was considering politics at this point in his career, so he was focusing on his speeches for the Congress.No reason to keep it long, let's give it a proper spin:When Jack became America's boss,The country groped with a massive loss,At the Capitol Hill,A televised kill,He is not the man you wanna cross.Your faithfull,Jack Ryan, the President
Picking up where "Debt of Honor" left off, this was a very enjoyable read. The story itself, a highly militant islamic group trying to create a Middle Eastern superpowe, is thrilling enough, but the real piece de restistance are the fantastic subplots, all related to the main story. This includes a terrorist attack towards president Ryan's family, a biological terrorist attack with weaponized Ebola, a sleeper agent embedded within the Secret Service and a disgraced former vice president's attempt at regaining power.The very best of the Ryanverse books I've read so far!
My only attempt at a Tom Clancy novel. I was in fifth grade, and decided to read it to impress people. Even as a ten year old, I lost patience with Tom Clancy. I found it in a box a few years later and tried to read it again. Ten year old self: You were not wrong. Nooo, thank you.The best thing about Tom Clancy is his ongoing feud with Christopher Buckley. Which Christopher Buckley seems to win, every single time. Look up their letter writing spats online sometime. It's amazing.
This was truly a great book, reminiscent for me of the television show The West Wing is that explored not only events but the adjustment of the president and his family to the immense responsibility he bears.
fanatical clerics political backstabbing to my mind Clancy of the first vintage well worth reading again.
Sooo darned good read, I had to read it for 4 times...everytime I don't have a book to read, I go through it...still going for my 5th ;D
Jack Ryan as POTUS. I have to skip through huge chunks of this, but I really like the First Family stuff. Have re-read many times.
Tom Clancy .CHARACTERS....(( selective )) JACK RYAN, MAHMOUD HAJI DARYAEI, ARNIE VAN DAMM, ED KEALTY , ALI BADRAYN, PAT O' DAY, ANDREA PRICE, CATHY RYAN, ED FOLEY, JOHN CLARK, CHAVEZ, TONY BRETANO, Dr.MOHAMMED MOUDI , SISTER JEAN BAPTISTE and others....LOCATION...
In White House, under the directions of Daryaei, an Iranian assassin named Jeff Raman is posing as a loyal Secret Service guard, is waiting for the final order from Iran to murder President Ryan at proper time.THE PRESIDENT...THE PERFORMER ...!!!
President Jack Ryan, in a desperate attempt to save America from Ebola virus and plague, issues some important Executive Order and appeals American citizens to obey it without any second thoughts.
Sebenarnya saya tidak terlalu suka dengan novel bertipe dunia intelejen/militer yang tokoh agennya jadi seorang superhero.
Cerita ini menceritakan tentang Amerika yang babak belur setelah presiden dan mentri mereka tewas saat sebuah pesawat jatuh ke gedung Capitol Hill.
pdahal di novel, penjahatnya sudah pasti orang Jepang, tapi nama Jepang bahkan tidak disebut sama sekali di novel kecuali di halaman-halaman awal.Di novel ini juga ada negara yang menyerang AS dengan senjata biologis (ups, hampir spoiler, soalnya, inti ceritanya di sini :p), dan AS baru bertindak itu pun lebih karena alasan, negara tsb menyerang negara sekutu AS, bukan karena kepemilikan senjata biologis (padahal senjata beupa virus itu sudah menewaskan ribuan orang AS).
This has so far been my favorite book in the Jack Ryan series. It had such a real feel to it, there was not an overwhelming amount of lecturing on one thing or another. the the build up to the key events was clear, in that you knew certain things were going to happen but in each case they played out in an interesting and very well thought out way. time was taken with each one to give a very real feel to it all. Definitely my favorite one so far, but many more still left
Hubby really liked it.I thought it was just okay.Hubby already knew who Jack Ryan was and told me that I needed to watch a movie called "Red October" so I'd understand what this book was all about. Chances are slim to none that I'll ever watch it. lol
Not only is there now a United Islamic Republic comprised or Iran taking over Iraq, but the Iranians attack the US with aerosol-dispensed Ebola virus, crippling it by their choice of trade shows and malls for dispersing it.
He has had his mad scientists incubating Ebola via African monkeys for years, and now sends in twenty agents to disperse aerosol canisters of the virus in twenty malls and trade shows around the US.
With a major effort, including a moratorium on interstate travel, Ryan along with the CDC and the Army's Chemical Brain trust at Ft. Dietrich manage to curb the spread of Ebola as the new United Islamic Republic army commences war with the Saudis and Kuwaitis.
Following immediately on from Debt of Honor, this is a terrific, ambitious political drama, one of the last really good Jack Ryan books. It does however have more than its fair share of faults - self-indulgence, saccharine moments, a somewhat workmanlike approach to the climactic conflict. It isn't quite as good as most of its predecessors, marking a point where the series began going downhill, but its good enough to still merit 4 stars.
Our hero, Jack Ryan, has become an unconventional leader of men forging a way for a hopeful American reality; the parallel to our own economic and international trials, profound (where is such a leader for our own time?).
Throughout the series, I’ve struggled with Dr/Mrs. Ryan’s decisions as the author force feeds a hard focus on life at the center of the 2 career power family.
The mind tastes first the fine print while the soul ponders the ethical questions of war, terrorism, religion, politics, family, careers, skill, service, and sacrifice.
I don't like politics, which is why, for me, the book gets somewhat better towards the end, with the advent of the Second Persian Gulf War. But let's take it from the beginning, shall we?Some background first.
At the same time, back home, everyone wants a piece of the new president, particularly the media and former Vicepresident Kealty who's now got his eye on the Oval Office.70 to 80 percent of this book has Ryan taking the hits as they come, one after the other, all the while complaining he never wanted the job.
To be honest, Ryan really becomes a president towards the end, and before you know it that's it.
