https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28372019-the-bookshop-on-the-corner
This book spoke to my soul  Because every day with a book is slightly better than one without, and I wish you nothing but the happiest of days.  Nina Redmond is my favorite kind of main character - she feels like a best friend.  A very bookish best friend. The best possible kind of best friend.Nina is was a librarian.  Her job was her everything. She spent every waking moment, caring for all of the little library books, curling up with a new novel every night and most importantly, helping people
Nina Redmond is my favorite kind of main character - she feels like a best friend.
She spent every waking moment, caring for all of the little library books, curling up with a new novel every night and most importantly, helping people find the book that they needed the most.
I want to go out and check out every last book from the library that Nina suggests.
To all readers.Because this book is about reading and books, and how these things can change your life, always, I would argue, for the better....
But, eventually, books cease being viewed as treasures and are viewed instead as crutches, things only clung to by those who aren't truly living their own lives and thus have to live vicariously through the stories of others.
I can logically agree that books are sometimes used as crutches to help us get through life.
Nina, our main character, was faced with a huge change in her life, and she made the most of it by embracing her love of books and her dream of fostering that love in others by opening her own book shop.
Nina’s favorite thing in the world was literary matchmaking, pairing a person with the perfect book for where they were in their life.
I love 'books about books' and this one will truly resonate with people like me, who live and breathe books, no matter what genre you prefer.
But, the journey is fraught with setbacks, adjustments, and a flood of personal turmoil as she settles into a small Scottish community and begins spreading the love of books and reading with the folks who live there.
While I took great pleasure in watching Nina tirelessly spread the gift of books to her isolated community, the story evolves into something more, proving that people can work together to resolve problems if only they would try to see things from a perspective other than their own.
It is the story of Nina, a Librarian who is made redundant from her job in Birmingham, who starts a new life for herself by buying a van in Scotland and transforming it into a mobile bookshop.The characters are all people you just cannot help liking and Nina herself is someone you would just love to be friends with in real life.
The author just made me want to cram a load of books into our camper van and head off up there myself to start my own bookshop!
Loved all the bookshop and book talk, and that's about it.
The only parts where she was interesting was when she was trying to change her life and was in the process of moving to rural Scotland to sell books out of a van.
As soon as the love interests came on the scene, Nina lost what little charm she had and turned into a pathetic, desperate, whiny, doormat who panted between a bitter, mean, divorced mess and a married creep.
The author should have concentrated on the heroine making a success of her bookshop/moving to a sleepy village with quirky characters part of the story.
Problem is, for someone living on a minuscule salary, it did not make sense to buy all these paraphernalia, beanie bags, fairy lights, fluorescent lights spelling "Books" and some more, and hoard it in a tiny apartment without knowing what to do with them.
And it was okay to name this old hag on four gigantic wheels Little Shop of Happy-Ever-After with a chandelier inside to boot.But don't despair, it's a feel-good read for romance junkies.
***SIGH***I liked the idea of a book van in Kirrinfief, and Scotland, and small towns and...and...and...well, a place to explore.
And I LOVED the idea of a book van!!!
Awww, I loved this book about a librarian getting laid off from her readers' advisory job and opening a "bookshop-on-wheels" in Scotland.
I was a public services librarian for 42 years and a bookmobile librarian for of 17 of those years, so the thoughts about helping patrons find just the right books to read really resonated.
The setting in Scotland was very appealing (as were the love interests!) and I'm ready to book a trip!The theme of reinventing your life in the book world reminded me of Anjali Banerjee's Haunting Jasmine, only without a supernatural element.Recommended for readers' advisory librarians and anyone else who loves a sweet comfort read featuring hunky men and appealing book descriptions.
This was a sweet, though not too sweet, story about a young woman at loose ends who dreams of her own bookshop (I could identify). The story is a little predictable, but I rather enjoyed it. I have been reading a lot of crime fiction, and this was a lovely break amid the murder and mayhem!Find more reviews and bookish fun at http://www.princessandpen.com
It is definitely a book about books - and hunky Scottish men in kilts - and becoming everything you ever wanted to become if you can take the risk, and just buy the damn van, move to Scotland and get on with The Little Shop of Happy Ever After.
Nina Redmond is a victim of Britain's branch library cuts - wee local libraries serving walk-in clientele within a neighbourly vicinity, from the stroller pushers to those with walkers.
One thing leads to another - like the van is SO big for parking on Birmingham's city streets - and she ends up in Kirrinfief, Scotland.
The Bookshop on the Corner is an enjoyable book that most book lovers will likely appreciate.
I liked it overall but I've come to the conclusion that Jenny Colgan's fiction and I just aren't compatible for a long-term love affair.
The author's message to readers at the start of this book was my favorite thing.
Her love note to the art of reading and all the books in the world instantly got my attention and put a smile on my face.
It's worth a look though if you enjoy this author or the chick-lit genre in general.
What kind of real book fanatic could do that unless they were on the verge of starvation or something?So Nina loses her library job in Birmingham, spends everything she's got to buy a van in Scotland and of course ends up moving there, getting an amazingly designed, perfect apartment in a barn for next to nothing.
"I don't like you, you're useless, you're dangerous, but come over here and soap up and shove your hands up inside my ewe." Right.Basically, what I found annoying about this book is that no matter how awkward and idiotic Nina is, everything she does always works out.
3 starsVery light unrestricted comical read.
In addition to being a light read in a very fanciful script, in retrospect I see a number of societal issues, hovering in the background, that the book did cover.
Highlighted was child services, job loss and reinvention, divorce and new relationships, deportation and the strength of community, among others.
Nina in the throes of losing her library job decided to buy a van and start a rolling bookstore.
Little did she know that this escapade would lead her to a new community, a new culture and a new love.
I came across Jenny Colgan's work through the pages of a Rosie Hopkins story and I was hooked.
The library where she works is to be closed, like so many, and Nina finds herself facing a bleak future in Birmingham where she lives.
There are thousands of books available as the library is closing.
The snag though is that the van that really catches Nina's eye is in Scotland...And thereby lies the tale of another delicious read from Jenny Colgan.
What's not to like about a bibliophile selling books from a van, following her trials and tribulations and her love life, as it is, in the Highlands?
The busy city of Birmingham, England closes some of their smaller libraries, and Nina loses her job. She's always had a dream of owning her own bookstore. Nina buys a van and opens a mobile bookstore in a small village in Scotland. She loves her new life in the Highlands, and opens herself to new experiences. This is an entertaining light read that romantics and book lovers will enjoy. 3.5 stars.
This was a wonderful, light summer read. Right from the start you realize that everything is probably going end well for everyone. I especially enjoyed the descriptions of Scotland and the books mentioned. This reminded me of another book, Parnassus on Wheels by Christopher Morley. I feel sure that Jenny Colgan was influenced by this 100-year-old novel about a spinster who buys a horse-drawn caravan to sell books throughout New England.
This is a charming book about second chances, in life and in love.
While selling her books, she is able to match the perfect book with each customer.
But will she ever find her own perfect match outside of a book store?
There are a lot of quirky characters, with Nina being probably the most “normal” of the bunch.
The village of Kirrinfief is almost a character itself, so vividly it is described.
(Well, one character in the book doesn’t!)The ending is fairly predictable, but that isn’t a problem.
That’s what you read these types of books for.
Who wouldn’t love a book about a bookshop!
I loved this book.
Nina, is a enormous book lover and each book is special.
Being a huge book lover myself, it was easy to root for Nina to be happy and successful.
Nina loves to read and she buys a van and transforms it into a traveling bookstore.
She moves to Scotland to start a new life after being laid off from her boring job.
She takes a risk, moving to Scotland and creates her dream job.
This is the first book that I have read by Jenny Colgan, but it definitely will not be my last.
4.5 starsA true delight to read...I enjoyed the time spent reading Bookshop on the Corner immensely! Book-lovers will devour it, with the talk about books and all things bookish. It's light, well-paced, and hits you in the heart. The characters are a joy to read: fun, quirky, full of personality. Loved the setting too, makes me want to jump a plane and move to a village in Scotland. We also get to witness lots of personal growth of our heroine. Highly recommended!Side note--I think a different book name would suit it better :)
It's so fluffy! Light, predictable, and funny in parts; the writing is not bad, but there is absolutely no depth or subtlety in the storytelling or the character development. At all. My mind wandered a lot as I read this and when I made it to the end, I was disappointed by the tidily packaged "happy-ever-after" that mimicked every ridiculous, too-quick resolution throughout the book. My most adamant criticism is the ridiculous U.S. branding of this book.
Good book about the main character following her dream. Good summer read about books, the Scottish scenery, and romance.
Then again, I did read the ending I wanted.I like that Colgan’s writing was light and fun.
The setting in the Scottish highlands was so beautifully described and made me fall in love with Scotland, even though I have never been.
A story about a book lover and the Scottish highlands, made for a sweet, delicate and light read.
This book was perfect to read at night for hours on end by the fire place, curled up in a blanket with a cup of tea.
That note to readers felt a bit like I was talking to myself.
Could you even imagine??) and so she decides to buy a van and create a book-mobile.
This book was cute and the narrator was excellent.
A little too heavy on the love story aspect that made this slightly unrealistic.
I wanted more books, less sappy romantic plot lines.
The book tree was by far, my favorite part of this book- the little trinkets left by Marek and crew onto the branches of the tree.
Ultimately, a pleasant summer read that didn't use up too much of my brain space.Narrated by: Lucy Price-Lewis (Excellent!)
Dual review with Swedish first and then English! SWEDISH REVIEW Ännu en fullträff! Efter att ha läst 2 böcker i Strandpromenadtrilogin så såg jag verkligen fram emot att läsa denna bok. Jag menar, bara titeln Den lilla bokhandeln runt hörnet är ju ljuvlig. frågan var dock, skulle denna bok vara lika charmig som Strandpromenadböckerna? Kan Nina charma mig lika mycket som Polly gjorde? Och hur ska en bok utan lunnefågeln Neil funka?Faktum är att Den lilla bokhandeln runt hörnet är en alldeles ljuv
Och hur ska en bok utan lunnefågeln Neil funka?Faktum är att Den lilla bokhandeln runt hörnet är en alldeles ljuvlig bok, charmig men inte alls utan djup, precis vad jag hade hoppas på.
Ibland kan feelgood böcker bli för sockersöta men Jenny Colgan vet precis hur man skriver en bok som blandar humor och allvar och jag kunde känna igen så mycket i denna bok.
att Nina får uppmärksamheten från två olika män Precis som Polly fick i Strandpromenadböckerna.
And would a book without Neil the Puffin work?In fact, The Little Shop of Happy Ever After is a very lovely book charming, but not at all without depth, just what I had hoped for.
A job and place she would definitely not be suited to work.Overall, Nina is a quiet woman who doesn’t take risks.
To top it all off, her roommate becomes so annoyed with all the books stored in their small apartment, that she asks Nina to find a new place to live.
She rides from town to town recommending and selling books.Along the way Nina meets some very interesting people such as an angry landlord and a train conductor willing to help smuggle books to her van.This is one heroine I truly could identify with – I just wish I was able to take a risk and open my own bookstore.
Personally, I thought that idea of a young and almost out of work woman picking up her life to run a mobile bookshop in a village in Scotland sounded like an idyllic read for a bit of nighttime reading.
If I had to pick a caveat, it would be that the plot was fairly predictable.
If I had to pick a caveat, it would be that the plot was somewhat predictable.
Nevertheless, I was so engaged in the sweetness of the book, that the predictability wasn't much of an issue for me.Overall, I loved this book and would recommend it to others who are looking for a gentle book to read.
She travels up on a whim to look at a van for sale and a new life starts for her and all the locals in the village.I loved the sound of the village and her grumpy landlord and the barn conversion that she is renting sounds like a real dream.
I wanted to move up there to browse amongst the books to find a real gem.I loved all the characters and the way they weaved into the story and I want t0 have my own bookvan!With many thanks to Net Galley and the publisher for a copy of this wonderful book to review.
3.5 stars... This was an easy feel good story about a late 20s girl named Nina. Getting laid off from her librarian job she sets out to live her dream of a van library far from the comfort of her home in England into rural Scotland. She lives out her dream, she gets lonely, she helps others and falls in love. Very girly indeed!! It was okay. I will say I like the author's sense of humor and wit in her writing.
This is a bookworm's romance. The main character has to learn to live in the real world instead of through her books. She ends up doing this by having a mobile book shop in a small town where she engages with the people there through her books and eventually finds romance in the most unexpected place.
I wanted to like this book more than I did. Some of it was great, but most of it was just ok. I liked the concept of a traveling book store. But I kept thinking the van must have a bit of the T. A. R. D. I. S. in it. I can’t figure out how she fit everything she fit into it.  🤷🏼♀
I wanted to like this book more than I did. Some of it was great, but most of it was just ok. I liked the concept of a traveling book store. But I kept thinking the van must have a bit of the T. A. R. D. I. S. in it. I can’t figure out how she fit everything she fit into it.  🤷🏼‍♀️
