https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28304.The_Time_of_Your_Life
They do this by demonstrating an unrelenting outflow of innocence, feeling, joy and love, with an unabashed sense of self-expression and vulnerability, painting an unrealistic yet inspirational picture of contrast between how the world should have been and how it actually was, and sadly still is now.The play centers around Joe, the pivotal character who has long withdrawn from “normal” life and is now devoted to nothing but the generous act of giving.
He gives money, hope, encouragement and time to everyone he encounters.Much of the action happens inside the honky-tonk, with an international scope of characters (Indian, Arab, American, Assyrian, Irish and Italian) coming and going, interacting with Joe and everybody inside and then leaving.
Marvellous. What Saroyan does is capture a glimpse of America - beautifully written - in just 100 pages. Drunkards, lovers, social classes - sadness, grief and pain. Some synonymous for that lost miserable honky-tonk in 1939. 4,5/5
Wonderful
What does it say about a book when, after reading an author’s introduction, I decide the guy was an arrogant, long-winded narcissist?William Saroyan might have been a wonderful person.
How he comes across in the introduction of The Time of Your Life, however, is how I describe him above.
I didn’t think the introduction boded well for the play, which won the Pulitzer.The play is similarly long-winded and bombastic.
Some interesting sections and ideas peek through the overabundance of words, but the play is so, so bogged down.
It also doesn’t help that, despite the long length, the women in the play are little more than cardboard cutouts.
This play is tremendous. All of humanity walks into a bar.....
My very first lead role and to this day I wish I could go back and do it better.
I read this when I was all of six years old, and it had a huge influence on the way I look at things. Saroyan understood the greatness in those that society views as cast-offs.
Կյանքիդ ժամերն ապրիր այնպես, որ քեզ բաժին ընկած ժամերին չավելացնես աշխարհի վիշտն ու տառապանքը, այլ ժպիտով ընդունես նրա անսահման լույսն ու խորհուրդը
Hoping to read this play or see it. I think there is a film version. His other plays are great, especially "The Beautiful People."
**I read a collection called "The time of your life and two other plays" -- which included "Love's Old Sweet Song" and "My Heart's In The Highlands"**I first heard of Saroyan from Tennesse Williams and loved his exhortation, “In the time of your life, live,” but his prose is so bloated with big, abstract words ("love" and "truth"), it mars the beauty of it.
My Heart’s In The Highlands is a weird play about a poor poet trying to raise his son when a vagabond, washed-up actor comes along playing his trumpet and dies in their house.
I really wanted to like this play (it was suggested to me as a kind of west-coast "Iceman Cometh", which is of course an ill fitting narrative comparison) and, while it has many strengths, it has not faired well with the passing of time.
I normally love these kinds of plays, but in order for them to work their situation must be exciting or informing enough to make up for the loose narrative structure and keep us focused.
The play does crescendo nicely and is particularly fun when the rich couple (stand-ins for the audience itself) come into the bar to "slum it up" for the night and observe these interesting characters.
All of humanity comes through this bar and they all come before Nick, who helps everyone. This is a well crafted story of somewhat mythic proportions, of a somewhat impotent god and of the 20th century. Saroyan's brilliance at creating atmosphere makes up for the somewhat dated dialog and plots in this nearly perfect play. It is a play, however, can't escape this. Everything happens in one day, on one set, in one place. By the end, one feels exhausted but somehow hopeful.
Every time I have returned to this play, and I have done so a couple of times, I am bowled over by the complexity of characters. The monologues and dialogue is rich. I can imagine, when staged, because of the perspective of Saroyan it's quite the theatrical piece. But it's not good theatre. It's a moving image. A painting as complex and detailed as any. But it is not a good play.
Так себе, не зашла. Слезливо-непонятный спектакль. Начиналось весьма пафосно, прямо как у Коэльо. Про что – точно не помню, но помню, что происходило это в кабаке, куда заходил плохой коп и не давал нормально жить хорошим людям. Все как в реальной жизни )))
Life has no meaning but maybe we can make some.
Otra tarea de la u... a mi me gustó, es como tierna.
Excellent! Really fascinating characters.
Կյանքիդ ժամերն ապրիր այնպես որ չզղջաս....
Decent play. It can be a little preachy... but overall, it is a solid story.
more like 3.75
„Jestli to není organického původu, spraví se to samo. Jestli to je organického původu, spraví to všemocná věda.“ –s. 76Malá hra příběhů.
Fantastic play. It all happens in an afternoon in a bar in San Francisco. But it all makes so much sense.
I confess, I really don't see the point.
романтика жизни: трогательно, но в конечном счёте не имеет смысла
