https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15768409-the-retribution-of-mara-dyer
After the cliffhanger, I sat like this for about twenty minutes, more or less.FRIGGIN HODKIN WHY?!?! And Noah? Noah, NOAH, NOAH, NOAH!!!!!! UGHUGH. COME ON, now I have to wait a whole year. Brb, sobbing still.
JUNE 2014!? Nooo, the waiting... *dies*NOVEMBER 2014 ALKJSDFL:KJSDFIt's almost here...
MUHAWHAWHAWHAWHAWHAW..*cough cough* ******LOVE THE TITLE; well we know what that will look like...Is it too early to be thinking about Movie casts??
Heck.My choice for Noah;Douglas BoothOR Max IronsI agree Max irons is waay sexier but then Douglas Booth is a Brit...So to put my mind off of that GODAWFUL cliffhanger, I've decided to share these quotes and fanmade jewels :)--The unbecoming of Mara Dyer(Is it too wrong to think a cartoon hot, cus that Noah is looking mighty fine--)“In spite of everything I loved you, and will go on loving you—on my knees, with my shoulders drawn back, showing my heels to the headsman and straining my goose neck—even then.
LIKE REALLY BAD.things I liked:-Jamie-Jamie referencing The Hunger Games and Harry Potter a few times-the last line was good, it made the story feel like a full circle (sort of)things I disliked:-Mara did insane things and nobody really seemed to care-Mara didn't act like the same character AT ALL.-THE ENTIRE PLOT MADE ME FEEL LIKE I WAS BEING PUNK'D.
-(view spoiler)[Mara spent the entire book killing people, then she died and Noah died but not really (hide spoiler)] and that was really freaking stupid-the last 70 pages especially....
(similar to the entire book, funny enough...)OK YEAH SO REALLY IT JUST WASN'T GREAT.
It's over..And I don't know what to do with my life right now. I need help. Do not have any coherent thoughts at the moment. Be back. Bye. No, srsly. This book was FANTASTIC! Like vavabooommmm baby!!! And Michelle ..*****THAT IS ONE GORGEOUS COVER PEOPLE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! SAY WHUT ?????????  noun \ˌre-trə-ˈbyü-shən\ Definition of RETRIBUTION 1: recompense, reward 2: the dispensing or receiving of reward or punishment especially in the hereafter 3: something given or exacted in recompense; especially : punishmentOMG.I AM SO EXCITED THERE ARE NO WORDS. i can wait. BUT I CAN'T. I MISS NOAH :(
adljfhlasdfhalkdflasjdh THAT COVER <333
“The villain is the hero of her own story.No one thinks they're a bad person.Everyone has reasons for doing what they do.”  Don't they say that the road to hell is paved with good intentions?Protect the world,protect those you love,protect yourself?I just finished a story about teenage mutants with superpowers and a history of mental illnesses who were tortured in the name of science but the only thing I can think of is that in the end I didn't know who was the hero and who was the villain.The
It is no secret that I was hooked to this series from the start.And I was warned that the final book would give me mixed feelings,something that turned out to be true.I loved it,I really did,but it was my least favorite among the three.Don't get me wrong,I am not disappointed at how things were wrapped up;in fact, I had many what-the-fuck moments where my mouth hung open but not a word could escape,and the most anticipated scene towards the end was so perfectly and beautifully written that I felt my heart beat fast and I puked rainbows,but I couldn't give it 5 stars.Because the fifth star lies back where Noah was.
What the hell is this.WHATTHE H E L L IS THISHodkin whatever you think you're doing, don't you effing dare.Dont. You. DARE.(view spoiler)[oh god i can't stop crying what if she kills noah off permanently in this book don't touch me get away from me i hate all of you (hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
After reading:It was good, that's all I can say :) Release date:Annnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnd now two years of waiting are done!!! It's OUT! And I have it :DPre release date:Hold on... June 2014???????? Nooooooooooo*About 3 or so months before the June release date*And now it's November 2014 .... :(
“Do not find peace. Find passion.”It's really hard for me to rate this.First of all it was as intense and terrifying as The Unbecoming and The Evolution. And way more satisfying, because Mara finally got her Retribution.Second of all, it was confusing, complicated and not really resolved. Too many loose ends (which will hopefully be resolved in The Shaw Confessions).Nevertheless, I'm so madly in love with this series. It's shocking and ruthless but also quite funny and never disappointing. Michelle Hodkin is such an awesome writer!Find more of my books on Instagram
Even though most of the plot happened by chapter 65-66, the ending was written so artistically it was beautiful (I especially favoured the letters our characters received).The book picks after the events at Horizons.
After the past two books, for me the significance of the chapters in her grandmother's past seems more prominent.
In the third book we learn so much more about this world and it's characters I have grown impossibly more fond of them.
Mysteries and histories unravel in this third and final installation of The Unbecoming of Mara DyerIf it isn't already obvious I rate this book 5 stars.P.S: I'm in love with Noah Shaw
RESEÑA CON SPOILERS Y MUCHO SARCASMO Qué decepción.  La trilogía de Michelle Hodkin solía ser una de mis preferidas, pero desde que releí los dos primeros libros, empecé a notar actitudes desagradables en los personajes principales, y mi amor por la trilogía disminuyó bastante. Quizá se deba a que estoy creciendo, y ya los libros young adult no significan tanto para mí. El punto es que estaba ansiosa por leer la conclusión de esta trilogía, por la cual Michelle nos hizo esperar tanto. Si mal no
La trilogía de Michelle Hodkin solía ser una de mis preferidas, pero desde que releí los dos primeros libros, empecé a notar actitudes desagradables en los personajes principales, y mi amor por la trilogía disminuyó bastante.
Pero por alguna razón que aún desconozco, Mara sobrevive a esa inyección letal, y despierta para ver a su pobre Noah con un cuchillo en el pecho, cortesía de su ex novio Jude.
Qué escena tan emocional.c) Después de que la haya asesinado, Mara perdona a Noah (porque el amor lo puede todo, por supuesto), y luego llegan las escenas de amor entre MADNESS.
There wasn't enough focus on Horizons/the experiments/the powers, there was too much of Mara angsting, and worrying and searching for her precious Noah.
Also, I hated how Noah's suicidal tendencies were romanticised, like all that was needed was the power of Mara's love to save and cure him.
All they did was show Mara's grandma having the same sort of powers as Mara.Why was Mara able to heal herself when she was dying?
If they were able to stop her from using her murderous powers then why did Kells want to kill her if the drugs were working?
Thirst not completely quenched, hunger not fully satisfied, questions not fully answered and yet I’m still one happy gal and one of the things about the entire series that made me happy is how I could never point out what it really is.
After finishing the third book, I’ve decided that it’s a mix of everything- paranormal, mystery, suspense, sci-fi, fantasy and best of all, humor which what made me completely enjoy the books.
I’ll stop here and leave the rest to you when you do decide to read the series.
P.S. Happy early birthday to my friend, Daiane!
OH MY GOD. THAT COVER, THE PLOT. MY LIFE. I NEED HELP PLEASE. MEDICATION OF SOME SORT THAT WILL KNOCK ME OUT AND WAKE ME UP THE DAY THIS BOOK ARRIVES AT MY HOUSE.  The fact that they would even ... My sanity is truly in the hands of Michelle Hodkins! I'm about this > [| close to snapping. THERE'S BEEN A MISTAKE. That's the only reasonable explanation. The release date should say 1/16/13 9:50:11.5 , which is about ... NOW! I CAN'T EVEN. ALL THESE FEELS!  Check out my rant? http://characterized
OH MY GOD. THAT COVER, THE PLOT. MY LIFE. I NEED HELP PLEASE. MEDICATION OF SOME SORT THAT WILL KNOCK ME OUT AND WAKE ME UP THE DAY THIS BOOK ARRIVES AT MY HOUSE. 
  The fact that they would even ...
  My sanity is truly in the hands of Michelle Hodkins! I'm about this > [| close to snapping. THERE'S BEEN A MISTAKE. That's the only reasonable explanation. The release date should say 1/16/13 9:50:11.5 , which is about ... NOW!
  I CAN'T EVEN. ALL THESE FEELS!
  
  Check out my rant? http://characterized.blogspot.com/201...
One of these things is not like the others hmmm...
I wanted to read this so badly but as the publication date got pushed further and further back, I pretty much forgot everything that happened in the first two books. -_-
Hands down, best book/series finale I have ever read. Fucked up. Insane. Gutting. Tragic and beautiful. So good! SO GOOD people!!!
Or a goddess or something.-The numbers in the fake address of Claire and Jude's house are the same numbers at the beginning of the tape of the asylum collapse-DR KELLS OR WHATEVER HER NAME IS IS A BITCH.
I'm confused-You know when the fortune teller lady said she got bribed with the tall dark handsome guy with an accent at the carnival?
I wonder if he's the same guy Mara saw at the well with the old lady in the flashback.-NOOOOOAAAAAAHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH.
Actual Rating: 4.5 "Thinking something does not make it true. Wanting something does not make it real.Except that when I want it, it should". Don't be afraid my friend, the end is not bad. It is not too fast and in my opinion, it was carefully staged.  "The villain is the hero of her own story. No one thinks they’re a bad person. Everyone has reasons for doing what they do". I must confess that I was scared with the ending arriving. I actually thought that there was a fourth book that I didn't k
I actually thought that there was a fourth book that I didn't know about when my pages were finishing with a lot of story to tell.
But I was rewarded with big decisions and even thought I ended with a lot of questions, it wasn't bad.
Because seriously, it was genius.I had so many theories about what was real or even if the whole thing really happened or if she was just in the hospital dreaming...In the last book of this series the plot gets darker and creepier.
“What’s the most terrifying thing you can think of in these tunnels?
Kill the right people, and you become a hero.
THE WAIT IS ALMOST OVER OH MY GOD FINALLY AFTER 2 YEARS SUFFERING WAITINGONLY A WEEK MORE AAHHHHIt's an understanding that I'm excited hahaTeaser:“The first thing I noticed when I woke up was that I was covered in blood.
Those instincts were dead, and I was calm as my wet fingers slid up the tiled wall, groping for a light switch.
A male voice started to speak.
I Thought I was gonna have this book in my hands in two months and now you're telling me that I have to wait another year?
"The villain is the hero of her own story.' The conclusion to Mara's story was full of twist and turns, shocking reveals and thankfully everything is wrapped up surprisingly well. In The Evolution of Mara Dyer the author introduced side story, that honestly had me in a constant state of confusion, but in this fast paced, eerie finale, everything is cleared up. I don't think it is really possible to review this without spoilers, so I am not really going to try. I will say it was a bit creepy, an
The conclusion to Mara's story was full of twist and turns, shocking reveals and thankfully everything is wrapped up surprisingly well.
In The Evolution of Mara Dyer the author introduced side story, that honestly had me in a constant state of confusion, but in this fast paced, eerie finale, everything is cleared up.
Now, for those of you who have been wondering about a certain guy.(view spoiler)[Especially with the ending of Evolution.
Noah.
(view spoiler)[ Nope!
I don't know how our story will end.
"This is a love story.
Noah and Mara went through a merde-storm just to get the love they deserved and fought for but it was worth all of it in the end.
"Maybe sometimes we can only see the truth about ourselves if someone shows us where to look." This entire story tore out my heart and pieced it back together again.
"How?""Like you're the ocean and he's desperate to drown." The villain is the hero of her own story.🖤🖤 Cannot wait for The Becoming of Noah Shaw!!
P.S. That Noah's password was 'MaraShaw' is just too perfect, like seriously the guy has it all.
I was so convinced from book one that the brother Daniel was actually terrorizing his sister, or that she had never woken up/left the hospital/Noah wasn't real.
This book was all over the place.
I feel a little lost from all the crazy plot lines (throughout the series), but I love Michelle's writing style so I don't really care that they weren't exactly what I wanted.
I never like reading any perspective except the main character, and I mean ever, but I actually really enjoyed Noah's.
I come to think that in fact if it was something crazy, kept me chills!.“The villain is the hero of her own story.”(view spoiler)[The things she saw people in the mirrors and talk with itself can not be normal lol (hide spoiler)]I love her so much that has not changed I have fond a lot with Mara for all the things she had to spend through I think it's fair and understandable that beech changed his personality and is darker and fighter, which undoubtedly also due to power and things that have been revealed in the previous bookIn fact according to myself mara has been protagonist in one of the strongest scenes of the book I have shocking(view spoiler)[ as it was attempted rape by Ernst.
3 1/2I feel more confused at the end of the series than I did when I began it.
I haven't read the teaser by the way :)))Copied from Michelle Hodkin's Tumblr:http://michellehodkin.tumblr.com/Death, kids, and books.My mother says that only two things in life are permanent: death and children.
Reboot.But in the last few years, I’ve realized that there’s a third thing that you can’t ever undo.
And in working on the third book in the Mara Dyer trilogy for the past 16 months, I came to realize that I would regret asking Simon & Schuster to push back the book less than I would regret having them publish the wrong book.
So I put it aside completely for now, and started over again on the book I needed to be writing, and I’ve been working on it since.
Usually book 3 in a trilogy is the worst book,but this one is the best.
From the constant fangirl mentions?
Like the Hunger Games reference or the Harry Potter one or or the Lord of the Rings??
Like.
I was ridiculed :P Anywayyy since i dont want to spoil you, i wont even mention the over emotional ending.
I WONT.
Or the FEELS i caught from it.
I WONT I TELL YOU.
DONT MAKE ME.
THIS BOOK IS PERFECTION.
The constant action,the thriller feel it has,the humour, the romance,the friendships, family relationships..the plot.
This book is gold.
the whole trilogy is gold.
WAIT UNTIL...WAIT A MINUTE ¿NOVEMBER  2014?
I'm not sure why so many people were so disappointed with this conclusion. I actually thought it was quite good! While it was a bit slower than the first two books, I still found it to have that creepy vibe and the story all came together for me in the end. My main issue with this book was that there were too many of the "before" parts and I wasn't a fan of that story line. Overall this is a great series! I listened to it via Audible and I thought it made great audiobooks!
