https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34595087-okinawa
Truly a great historical account of this devastatingly, bloody battle.
I’ve always wondered why Iwo Jima receives all the accolades when Okinawa was anything but a sideshow to the War in the Pacific.
This was the most horrific three month campaign the Army, Navy and Marines were thrust into.
They showed courage, cunning, valor and honor all through this terrible battle.For anyone who doesn’t believe we should have dropped the bomb on Nagasaki or Hiroshima, you must read this book.
If you haven’t figured out by now, this is a great story written by the Army right after the battle.
Discovered the natives to be likeable thru a game one the very oldest I encountered allowed me to observe he and a friend spent playing.
I understood it to be called "go".
Simple enough that even I understood how to play, but it took me many hours of watching to begin to understand the logic involved and before I was invited to play a game.
I did not learn the language, just the rules of the game.
I was truly honored after I finally won a game.
The natives today once again ,live under the Japanese flag.
I am rating the Kindle version, otherwise it would have been a 5 star.
Probably the best Kindle military history book I have purchased.
Contrary to my last review of a Kindle book for military history, this one was outstanding.
The maps were good, you could blow them up to see them well, and they were still readable.
As far as the book itself goes, well it is outstanding.
It is an operational history, so while there is a good amount of detail, and a few anecdotes, it focuses on the larger view of the battle.
Wow. I did not know that this battle was so very gruesome.
There may have been too much detail, but when I came to the parts I was most interested, the detail was appropriate.
I was also under the impression that the Marines had more success.
In this instance, the Japanese fought both the Army and the Marines to almost daily failures.
The Japanese also showed their worth as a foe.
I think that the decision to use the atomic bomb was appropriate considering how the battles would have been if we had to invade Japan.
World War II StoryThis the best, the most organized of any relating a battle I have read. Unfortunately, there are many errors in the text. It describes the terrain, the battles, along with individual actions and the actions of those who won the Congressional Medal of Honor. I did not know that t the battle of Okinawa was so hard fought
Because the book was written in such detail, It took about the same time to read as the battle took the US forces to tale Okinawa. It might be valuable to Command and Staff students to study, but for just casual readers to learn what happened, it was tedious reading. It was almost as boring as Chernow's book, Grant, but thankfully not as long.
Exhaustively detailed chronicle of Army action during the Battle of Okinawa. A must read for scholars of American military history. One drawback, however. Photos are of poor quality, often too faded or puffy to make sense of. Still, I would recommend it just as it is.
Technical and yet personal.Technical and personal.The people on both sides were fairly described, in their capabilities and supply abilities: man power and ammunitions.Not my era, but educational.
Excellent Excellent book for those who wants the facts and tactics with a few stories mixed in. I recommend this book.
Good book!I felt that it was too detailed when naming each and every company and squad in each conflict. Good book.
Excellent well written account of the last Battle with Japan in the second world war,what a traumatic story for America & Japan and the young lives lost for the Greed of a few .
Very detailed account of the battle. The vicious nature of the day to day combat very evident in this account. The spirit and courage of the troops on both side is remarkable.
The book is very interesting and difficult to sit down once started reading has a lot of interesting facts concerning geography and history a strong book for information. The only thing I didn’t care for was the maps were to small and light to be ale to see.
Great Book.Fantastic detail. Really enjoyed this book. Had no idea that the U.S losses were so high.Surprised at tree the number of tank losses.
The play by play of the strategy to capture Okinawa. Very, Very detailed on the tactics and reasons each choice was made.
