https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40669974-the-five-red-herrings
Since there was a lot of movement in this story, we were able to visit several places in Scotland during the course of this case’s development.During the last portion of the book, there is a meeting with the fiscal, and each of the police officers present their theory of who committed the crime – complete with the supporting evidence.
– but with more arrows pointing at each person.Then, Lord Peter decides to re-enact the crime as he saw it with each of the police officers playing a role and those who didn’t have a role were there as witnesses.
read during my AIG YearsI Remember: surely Sayers can do better... the intriguing mystery gets lost in the unceasingly tedious recounting of all the various permutations of a train schedule... chapter after chapter of train schedules... TRAIN SCHEDULE, TRAIN SCHEDULES, STOP IT ALREADY!... where are the suspects?... oh there they are, only took a half a book to get to them... some good lines here and there... the characters of Wimsey & Bunter remain wonderful but are given little play.
I can't believe I gave two stars to a Peter Wimsey novel.
Why only two stars?
Well, Lord Wimsey is on a little fishing vacation in Scotland.
There was a murder and Peter gets involved.
Since the setting is in Scotland, the author attempted to add authenticity by having the local characters speak with a Scottish brougue.
There were paragraphs of dialogue written with a thick accent.
Then, there was an overly complicated time table involving train schedules, bicycles, and five artist.
I really had a hard time keeping it all clear.
Continuing my Lord Peter Wimsey re-read.Ah, the Wimsey book I never liked.
And Wimsey immediately knows he's murdered, because of a detail that you really have to have read the book once before to understand - foreknowledge makes the whole of the book much clearer.
I always kind of resented Sayers for not giving the reader that clue early on, because after all isn't the whole point of a classic murder mystery that the reader has ALL the facts presented to them?So we end up with six suspects, all painters, and the novel goes into excruciating detail examining the movements and motives of each of them.
Lord Peter Wimsey is on holiday in Galloway, where people either fish or paint – and some do both.
One evening there is an argument between a Scottish painter, called Campbell, and an English artist, named Waters.
Lord Peter sets off in pursuit of the answer.This mystery involves six suspects, all artists who knew and who had argued with Campbell for different reasons.
The problem is that all of them are possibly guilty of the crime and Lord Peter, and the police, are left to untangle all the different alibi’s and motives.
This was not my favourite Lord Peter Wimsey mystery, but it was still a good read.
There’s a part where Morse’s mentor tells him that he might be able to come up with brilliant theories and connections, but the actual police work, the grunt fact checking stuff, has to get done too, and frankly, he sucks at it...Well that’s as it may be, as Lord Peter would say, but while it may make for a better policeman, it makes for a boring novel.
It was almost ALMOST worth it for the big scene at the end where everybody sits around a table and gets to throw out six different theories and Sayers has done the work for all of them to be totally plausible.
The Fiscal, fortunately enough, happened to be in the town, and joined the party, explaining to Wimsey as they drove along to the mortuary that it was the most painful case he had handled in the whole of his experience, and that he had been much struck by the superiority of the Scots law to the English in these matters, ‘For,’ said he, ‘the publicity of a coroner’s inquest is bound to give much unnecessary pain to the relations, which is avoided by our method of private investigation.’‘That is very true,’ said Wimsey, politely, ‘but think of all the extra fun we get from the Sunday newspapers.
It’s noted which characters have mystery books they could have purloined ideas from; a ‘red herring’ itself is of course a term used far more often in detective novels than in actual detecting; while towards the end of the book, when Wimsey raises the possibility of the killer not being one of the six, he is chastised for being like the worst kind of detective fiction.
Well, it's not a typical Dorothy L Sayers Lord Peter Wimsey.
But the whole writing style seemed completely different to the previous Lord Peter murder mysteries I have read.I did not enjoy the timelines and regimentation as much as I enjoy Lord Peters flights of fancy and 'waffling' as he puts people at their ease and learns things they would never otherwise dream of telling him.I did enjoy the reconstruction of the crime as he believed it to have been carried out, and as I said previously, I did enjoy the ending.
But this will not go down as one of my Sayer favourites.
This book comes perilously close to being a Choose Your Own Adventure novel.Then, to make sure the horse has really been flogged properly, every person who worked on solving the case gets to present their opinions on how the murder was carried out - nobody agrees on a suspect, of course - and then Lord Peter, comparing himself once again to Sherlock Holmes, comes up with the somewhat unlikely solution, pulling two rabbits out of his hat to make his case.
I can't tell who's who anymore!" Lack of differentiation between suspects annoys me.
When Chapter Seven arrived, I felt certain I had reached the end.
The artist might have fallen from the cliff where he was painting, but there are too many suspicious elements - particularly the medical evidence that proves he'd been dead nearly half a day, though eyewitnesses had seen him alive a scant hour earlier.
Five are red herrings, but one has created a masterpiece of murder that baffles everyone, including Lord Peter Wimsey.
1/8: The death of an artist curtails the upper class sleuth's Scottish fishing trip.
6/8: Who murdered the Scottish Artist?
7/8: Theories abound 8/8: Peter and his cohorts piece together the last hours before death.
Let me give you a fictional paragraph that could have been included in the book to give you an idea of the tedious and confusing-ness of train time tables in all their boring glory:"It turns out the Chamley was on the 1.5 to Ayers when we thought he was on the 1.41 to Allen even though his wife found a ticket for the 2.5, which was hard to believe because the train only ran at 1.3, 1.4, or 1.7 except on Sunday when it ran at 2.1 but stopped at Averrs and Arreys or on Wednesdays when it ran at 1.8 and 1.9.
His neighbor Cunnley ran into Miss Bev and Miss Bav on the 1.1 from Ayers stopping in Allen..."The moral lesson I would like everyone to take away from this review is that train time tables are boring.
I really liked this little mystery set in Scotland. It may be that I am just fond of Scotland but I found this delightful. First of all, the last place I would have thought to find Lord Peter is fishing in the Highlands. The thought of that alone makes me giggle. The murder surrounds a disliked artist and five other painter/fishermen are the suspects. It's quite entertaining as Peter makes his way through the conflicting alibis. The ending was a surprise for me. I thought it was a lot of fun.
Other reviews tell me that when The Five Red Herrings was written, so-called "train timetable" mysteries were all the rage, and Dorothy Sayers wrote this book mainly to prove that she could do the same.
Something is missing from the scene, Wimsey declares, and it's because of this object's absence that he knows the death was murder.
And the reason for this is, even if the mystery is confusing and dull, it's still being investigated by Lord Peter, who continues to delight in everything he does.
Five Red Herrings does a couple of things that really annoy me, like having a long section of people positing obviously wrong ways the crime unfolded, and the whole “the reader will of course know what the missing object was” bit — no, I don’t!
The introduction in the new edition drew my attention to the fantastic sense of place and character, and to appreciate again the way that Peter is embedded in the mystery, caring about the people involved.
This is a solid mystery novel, very detailed, very well planned, but it didn't work particularly well for me this time around.
I missed Lord Peter cavorting around being vaguely charming.2.
Lord Peter is on vacation, which has the effect of distancing himself from essentially all familiar characters.
And Lord Peter's dynamic with the plethora of Scottish detectives is not the same.
But no, it's just Lord Peter and a pack of strangers, which is less effective.3.
The whole time I mostly just wanted to be rereading "Have his Carcase" for Harriet-related reasons.
Unlike other Dorothy Sayers books, the mystery was done in the form of character sketches: every chapter focused on a single character, and the chapters were even named after the theme character, and the style of writing changes in many of them to reflect the person that Sayers is describing.
I suppose Sayers got the idea to do this from the premise: the five red herrings seems to suggest multiple takes on the same situation.
I also really liked the opening: the fact that Sayers deliberately withheld the key fact, which even though I vaguely guessed it (I can't give up on a challenge!), added a sort of excitement to the book, since I was strongly motivated to find out if I was right.
“The more you hate everybody for hating you, the more unattractive you grow and the more they hate you.”By her own admission (elsewhere), in this book, “the plot was invented to fit a real locality.” Apparently, written to please her Scottish friends, this is a Sudoku puzzle of clues spread through several hundred pages of prose.
Yes, I deduced the omitted clue (partly because I’m a painter), but that’s cheating.“Even you … look on me as nothing more than an amiable nuisance, don’t you?” “There may be something in what you say.”Quibbles: Too many stage directions.
“Eh, mon!
Sayers’s Lord Peter Wimsey books for years now (and because there are so few, I’ve been parcelling them out, reading one only every so often), I have to say that, while I enjoyed the journey that The Five Red Herrings allowed me to take, I had to just laugh at myself, relax, and amble along, as if I were on an uphill hike and concerned only with forward movement.The plot is simple enough: an artist in a Scottish village dies in an accident—or that’s how it seems for a second; of course he’s been murdered.
Basically, the first half of the book features Lord Peter and all the policemen going through all the permutations of Scotland's mindboggling train schedule, as well as six suspects who are barely distinguishable from each other.
During the second half, the plot really picks up, and we finally get a little characterisation of each of the suspects, as well as some much-needed plot not involving trains or bicycles.
Unfortunately, this leads the reader to hope and even assume that the solution will be surprising and fresh.
Sadly, that hope is dashed.
And there are only approximately two scenes of Lord Peter being awesome.
It's hard to read, and it isn't terribly rewarding, allow the last fifty pages or so is wonderful.There isn't enough of any of the characters one cares about, and actually, if I were rereading the series some time in a couple of years, my advice to myself would be to skip this one, or just read the last fifty pages.The part where it doesn't tell you what Wimsey found, or rather, didn't find, is infuriating.
If you're an artist who works with paints, you'll know.
If you don't, you'll go most of the book without knowing.
Infuriating!
Sayers that I have read, and it took a long time to get going.
The story quickly became bogged down in detail as well, which didn't aid me in my attempts to get to know the characters better, and I had to struggle to keep going throughout most of the book.
The novel scraped a three-star rating only because of the ending, which was wonderfully executed and very exciting.
Overall, it was a passable novel, but it didn't excite me as much as many of the Agatha Christie books of which I have read more.
Five Red Herrings was probably my least favourite of the Wimsey books, and I found it rather infuriating as a radioplay, too. One entire episode was given over to people all expounding wrong theories about the murderer -- theories which I knew to be wrong. The end of the episode, where Peter says they're all wrong, is the highlight of the whole thing, and couldn't come soon enough.The mystery itself is interesting, but far too convoluted.The casting was pretty good, though I missed Gabriel Wolf as Inspector Parker -- whoever read his lines wasn't quite right.
I read this once before, not sure when. Just finished it again. Good fun, but I clearly don't have the kind of mind that devours detective fiction. It is like watching five different people solve a crossword puzzle five different ways, followed by a triumphal resolution.
A very enjoyable book which just stays the right side (for me) of getting bogged down in the minutiae of train times and artistic habits.
Dorothy L Sayers has an eye for place and writes well about Galloway and the Stewartry so the book could serve as a guide for anyone wishing to follow the plot on the ground as it were.
She also catches the dialect well, although for a Scottish taste, Lord Peter Wimsey's descent into it might be annoying; her knowledge of crimes against the person in Scots Law is slightly faulty but I won't say more lest the book's ending is given away.
I'm currently in the process of rereading several of my favorite "Golden Age of Detection" female authors' work, and while it's been about twenty years since I last read this one and didn't remember much of the actual plot, what I *did* remember, or thought I had, was that this was THE most boring of Sayers' books.
The first two-thirds of the novel are somewhat stodgy, although the pacing is actually rather sharp - all that timetable stuff overwhelms the reader, and you don't at first realize what's happening - the night-and-day after the murder is a damnably busy one for a sleepy little town!
I enjoyed the setting of the story (Scotland, in an area devoted to fishing and plein-air painters) and the personalities of the various suspects, and for a long time the book carried me along.
But the actual “how” of the crime eluded me until it was laid out at the end.The end, nevertheless, was what knocked the book down a few notches for me.
There’s a painfully long scene in which each person involved in the investigation gives a different theory of who did it, how, and why; and then there’s an almost equally painfully long re-creation of the crime as it actually happened.
This is my first read of Sayers and her Lord Peter Wimsey and i can see why the series,the character is still read decades after.
Wimsey was a good,smart detective without overdoing it and more important he had a humorous side, a personality that was fun to read.
Lord Wimsey ended the case well but it was a bit uneven novel,story overall.It was a good tryout of the series and a very fun character to read so i look forward to reading the more famous, acclaimed novels of the series.
There were plenty of things about this book that I loved: Lord Peter lapsing into blank verse, the accents of the various characters as re-created by the audiobook narrator, the setting, the re-enactment of the crime.
However, I was frequently lost in the timetable discussions and I found it very difficult to keep the names and the characteristics (not to mention the alibis!) of the various suspects in my head.
As it was an audiobook, there was no easy flipping back a few pages to work things out.
Suffice to say, this is not my favourite Sayers.
But even Sayers at less than her most brilliant is a lot better than countless others!
I say, Wimsey, you had rather a lot of fun with this one, didn't you? I must say I was rather amused as well. This was nearly a comedy. We'll call it three and a half stars, shall we?
