https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31451186-borne
he’s an author i knew i would love just based on his reputation, the reviews i’ve read both by and about him, his tasteful curation of anthologies and other books he’s championed.all of that to say that i can’t really tell you how this compares to his other books, or if there is any connection between this one and the southern reach trilogy, but i do know that i liked this one a lot (as i knew i would), that it was more challenging a read than it appeared at first glance, and that it took me much longer to read than i’d expected.
It’s the kind of writing that makes me a better reader.
Of course, VanderMeer and Gibson write in entirely different styles, but I have to do the same thing with Gibson novels as well.
There is a lot going on in each sentence, and I feel that it gives his novels tremendous reread value.Onto Borne specifically.
All told through beautiful prose that itself lends an eerie literary landscape for the rich characters to inhabit.The most obvious comparison here is VanderMeer’s Area X/Southern Reach trilogy, being his most recent work.
So it’s got that slightly post-modern thing going on.
Holy crap on a cracker!! Mind blown!! Mel 🖤🐺❤️
:)Original Review:This is probably going to be one of those times where I rail against the universe and popularity norms because this novel is an exemplary piece of imaginative fiction that goes well above and beyond the call of any duty to amaze, wonder, and offer up a meal of monstrously epic proportions.First, I should say that no matter how much I loved the weirdness and the atmosphere of VanderMeer's previous trilogy, nothing quite prepared me for just how good this was going to be.
”The closer I approached, the more Borne rose up through Mord’s fur, became more like a hybrid sea anemone and squid: a sleep vase with rippling colors that strayed from purple toward deep blues and sea greens.
The area is full of biotech that is usually hazardous and sometimes even lethal, so when Rachel plucks Borne from Mord’s fur, she is taking a chance that this colorful, vase-like structure will turn out to be one of those death-dealing gizmos.
”He was born, but I had borne him.”While you are considering all this, have an alcohol minnow or three.Wick and Rachel live in the Balcony Cliffs, a haven away from the power struggle over the remains of the city.
Pros:ProseImagery Imagination World buildingBackstory Cons:Pacing.I absolutely adored many things about this book but I think ultimately I admire Jeff VanderMeer's craft more than I enjoyed reading it.
Jeff VanderMeer leaves his readers (or me at least that is) at a distance, the story is told in a very remote manner (even though it is told in a first person narrative) and I never got a more emotional connection to Rachel or Borne or Wick.
Gloriously bizarre. The world building is incredible. Within the first night I started reading this, I had nightmares. There's an icky flying bear that is sort of a GMO cautionary tale. The biotech is wicked (heehee, there's a pun in there, but you have to read the book to get it). This novel grows as you read it, just like it's titular character Borne.
I’ve wanted to read VanderMeer for some time and my plan was to start with the Southern Reach trilogy, his most known work up to date.
Then Borne came along and, after consulting with GR friends, I decided that the most recent novel would be the better place to start my incursion in the author’s oeuvre as it is a standalone story.
The only difference is that Borne does not look like a human being and is a hungry consumer of everything alive.
The first time Rachel realizes she loves born was “Because he didn’t see the world like I saw the world.
4.5 stars!
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend.
All through this extraordinary and wonderful book, I found myself nearly in tears as I watched Rachel (my "grand-daughter" in this story) suffer and struggle in the wreck of a world we are creating for her now.
We are both gods and fools, and have consigned our children to the hell that should be reserved for us, and for our greedy leaders whom we allow to poison and abuse our future.In the early 1/3 of the book, Rachel's attachment to Borne "her son" is magical, and full of newly parental insight and growing love.
The city has been wasted of its natural resources and survival is only possible by scavenging through what remains of the Company's cast-off biotech.And then there's Borne.
VanderMeer isn't exactly subtle in his exploration of how humans abuse "nature" in its different forms and the effects the abuse can take.
What initially may have seemed beneficial to humanity ultimately went too far without anyone realizing in time.
Sometimes it's the nature of humanity and intelligence.
Can Borne, a simple piece of biotech created as a weapon overcome his nature through Rachel's "motherhood?" Does his own self-identity mean anything?
There's something very fantastical about the dystopian world Jeff VanderMeer creates in Borne; this is especially evident in the novel's title character.
It's interesting to see Borne develop through the protagonist's eyes.
However, for all the discussion and questioning about how the world came to be filled with biological mutations, like Borne, I feel there is a lack of depth to this exploration.
I may be overly critical here because I kept being reminded of Margaret Atwood's Oryx and Crake (which I think is absolutely fantastic), and thought Borne suffered by comparison.
That said, while the novel started slow, overall, I liked Borne a lot!
So I was very interested to read BORNE while also approaching it with a little trepidation.BORNE was a really satisfying read and also helped me pinpoint the thing that I'd been missing in the Southern Reach novels: an emotional center.
It is that bond, that need to focus and feel, as well as the uncertainty of what the thing you love actually is and what they're capable of, that pushes the book forward more than any of the larger villains and monsters lying in wait.For readers who like their plots tied up in a neat bow, who prefer plenty of exposition to support worldbuilding, you may not be a good fit for VanderMeer.
While she teaches Borne to read and talk and many other things, we explore themes of consciousness, being human/alive, giving up vs.
Him being like a little child at first, all while also being capable to not only trying to manipulate Rachel through words and batting non-existant eyelashes but also via changing his appearance (shape and colour) and emitting fragrances was really funny.Once again, I'm awed by the kind of world this author was able to create and how light he keeps the tone of the novel despite the heavy topics.
3.5 stars. Dreamy, weird, curious, slow, meditative, amusing, beautiful, violent....Borne is all this, and a lot of tentacles. Definitely reminiscent of the author's Southern Reach trilogy in terms of the dystopia, environmental concerns, strange creatures, and the brutality coupled with the quiet, wistful, and almost remote and distanced feel of the narration.
As Borne interacts first with Rachel and Wick, and then the world at large, Vandermeer asks the reader to consider what makes a person a person.
4. The Answer to The Southern Reach TrilogyI believe I read Vandermeer’s breakout trilogy in the year before I began reviewing in earnest on Goodreads.* Those books are filled with dread, discovery, and at times seem to take a perverse joy in failing to answer the many questions posed throughout the trilogy.
Though I’ll need some time to stew on this one, I believe Vandermeer is asking us to consider to what extent we are comfortable meddling in the natural world with genetic engineering.
Rachel and Wick are two survivors/scavengers that built a shelter for themselves they like to think as fortress.
On one scavenging trips Rachel find Borne which looks like a plant at first ( I really than whoever did the cover for this book, as it helped a lot with picturing Borne).
No matter how I tried to push beyond that to a place where Borne was evil, horrible, a psychopath, I couldn’t do it.”I easily engaged with the characters in this book and liked them, I cared for Borne probably too much just like Rachel.
Trust me: you are going to be hearing about this book for the rest of the year.
It’s one of the best Sci-Fi/Dystopian hybrids to come out in years.
The book follows a scavenger named Rachel during the recent apocalypse.
She becomes obsessed with this being, whom she names Borne.
But who made Borne, and what is its purpose?
I’m taking my sweet time reading this because I’m enjoying it so much, I don’t want it to end.
The suspense, the dark comedy, the twisted Sci-Fi elements–I can’t wait to see how it ends.–Jan Rosenbergfrom The Best Books We Read in April 2017: http://bookriot.com/2017/05/01/riot-r...

She just knows she wants to possess it, if for no other reason than it looks interesting, and is there for the taking.Shortly after Rachel takes Borne home, he begins to grow and change, learn language, form emotional attachments.
As if only to manifest Rachel’s curiosity, he grows far too quickly from infant to child to adolescent to young adult, constantly questioning his own nature and that of the world he was born into, frustrated by the inadequacy of language and reason to define him.
Vandermeer’s imagination and artistry are the selling points of Borne, and are just enough to make it a novel worth reading and discussing.
Although this book falls into the New Weird category very aptly - it's completely a weird read - I found it grew much better as it went, and I ended up really quite enjoying the characters and their story.
I will say, this is never going to be a book that works for everyone, in fact it's actually a super bizarre read which focuses on an organism called Borne, but Borne makes this story great and that's why I ended up giving it 4*s...What we see in this book is a world quite unlike our own.
Two beautiful book editions, a renowned author, and a unique sounding plot all culminated in my anticipating great things from this.
The actual bones of the plot were individual enough to keep me intrigued but I can't say that I was ever emotionally invested in the events.
The polarising effect this book has had on its readers made me eager to discover what exactly it was that affronts some and romanticises others and, unfortunately, I have yet to discover the latter.A received a copy of this in exchange for an honest review.
Thank you to the author, Jeff VanderMeer, and the publisher, Fourth Estate, for this opportunity.
This book has a godzilla-sized flying bear and a gigantic shapeshifting inverted squid being and a lot of heartbreak and love.
“There comes a moment when you witness events so epic you don’t know how to place them in the cosmos or in relation to the normal workings of a day. Worse, when these events recur, at an ever greater magnitude, in a cascade of what you have never seen before and do not know how to classify. Troubling because each time you acclimate, you move on, and, if this continues, there is a mundane grandeur to the scale that renders certain events beyond rebuke or judgment, horror or wonder, or even the g
“There comes a moment when you witness events so epic you don’t know how to place them in the cosmos or in relation to the normal workings of a day.
Worse, when these events recur, at an ever greater magnitude, in a cascade of what you have never seen before and do not know how to classify.
Troubling because each time you acclimate, you move on, and, if this continues, there is a mundane grandeur to the scale that renders certain events beyond rebuke or judgment, horror or wonder, or even the grasp of history.”
Finally a Vandermeer novel that I not only enjoyed reading, but understood.
It’s a full story, a great yarn and a scary look at a possible future for us.For the first time, I am gripped by a JV novel, glued to the pages and the spine chilling story.
Even though I knew it was coming, it still sent a giant shiver down my spine and rose every single hair on my scared little body.
When I first started reading this, I thought I was going to give up thinking I’d struck another JM weird (to me) book.
This one is hard for me to rate.
The average rating is pretty high at 3.93.
It took me quite a while to feel like I knew what the hell was going on in this (I think) post apocolyptic world.
This is the 2nd book by VanDerMeer that's made me feel this way so I'm not sure if I'm just a dip or it's his writing style.
I would have liked more back story as to why the world was in the state it was.
Borne is the most bizarre character I think I've read about thus far.
Audiobook:I don't even know how to explain this story. It is a fantasy, futuristic. It is a love-ish story but not like you'd expect. It is dystopian, dark and deadly. It is a physiological horror. It is a mind game. It was a hallucinogenic trip . I don't know if I liked it, I wanted to quit it but couldn't stop myself from listening. It was crazy and yet it all fit. Brilliantly weird.Note: I heard "Borne" so many times I almost lost my mind.
VanderMeer masterfully builds his world such that we know what it now looked like, dark and grimy, and also what it used to be, and I could see that it was once shiny and futuristic (I do love them alcohol minnows).
As he grows, Borne's character is the one to move the story and its protagonists towards the source of conflict, what VanderMeer, in true Area X style, calls The Company.
Do I dare say then I would have liked it better if VanderMeer betrayed what he usually does and actually gives us an opportunity to know more about the world he's build, the Company, his characters, and even Borne?
There are similarities to Area X here, in the weirdness of the biologically altered creatures and the resilience of the natural world, but I prefer to see them as separate works that examine the author's preoccupations in different ways.I've been a fan of VanderMeer's phantasmagorical imagination since first picking up Veniss Underground around 14 years ago, and have followed the trajectory of his career with close interest thereafter; and while those earlier works gripped me with intensity, his writing has vaulted upward in terms of quality, style and complexity since the publication of Annihilation in 2014.
