https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79548.Moomin
I came across Jansson's work some years back and was utterly charmed.
Anyhow it is rare that I love both the art and writing when it is done by only one person (Mike Mignola's Hellboy work comes to mind).
She wanted to do more fine art painting (she did impressive work in this area too) but generating income was incredibly difficult and that's how she ended up doing the strip (for financial reasons, still you can tell she poured her heart and soul into this).
I always love learning about artist backstories, people don't work in vacuums.
Your children should have these books. Then you should read them all instead of cooking or cleaning for said children.
Having been a fan of Tove Jansson's winsome Moomin books for many years, I was happy and excited to learn that for a few years in the 1950s, the Finnish author published a Moomin comic strip (oddly, in a British newspaper), now collected for the first time in this handsome volume, the first of five.
Moomintroll and Sniff meet Snuffkin and the Snork Maiden in this story as if for the first time, but in completely different ways than they did in 
Tove Jansson’s Moomin books are absurd comic delights that border on the edge of surreal, melancholy, and the fantastical. Whether an adult who missed these, or as gift for a child, these rank with the Roald Dahl and Dr. Seuss books but avoid the misanthropy of the former and the occasional frivolity of the latter. A weird wonderland of laugh out loud humor.
Whimsical but with biting undertones, Jansson’s observations of everyday life, including guests who overstay their welcome, modern art, movie stars, and high society, easily caught the attention of an international audience and still resonate today.This author, and these comic series in particular, is much loved by so many and I wanted in on all the fun too.
Moomin and the Brigands - 4 stars.In which Moomin's relations overstay their welcome and he has a hard time saying no.
4. Moomin's Desert Island - 4 stars.In which the family is stranded on a Desert Island without a book to read.
This book, and the other collection of comic strips and the novels, are a real treat.
They're about a good-naturedly anarchic family of hippo-like trolls who let all kinds of different creatures come live in their house and who get involved in one strange adventure after another.
The drawings are very good - neat line drawings whit each panel a balanced composition in itself, often filled with incident, and even when fairly dense still airy and light, like a hippo creampuff.
I must admit that I gave this book as a gift (to the esteemed Eric) after pretty much just flipping through it and reading the first story....
"Moomin on the Riviera" is my favorite story in this collection, I think, mostly because of how it uses that age-old quandary: why does an artist bother to put a bathing suit on a normally-naked cartoon character?
Snorkmaiden's bikini-shopping makes me giggle just thinking about it....
when she's all blushing in the shop over the "risque" bikini and then she feels better with a sash over it.
I have actually never read the Moomin strips, unless you count flipping though a comic that I couldn't read, though I have read the books.These strips are cool, funny, and cute. I liked the trip to the Rivera.
Jeg tror ikke det er rett bok for meg. Eller at jeg er rett person for boka. Men jeg liker streken.
this was truly delightful
Die Zeichnungen reichen von super niedlich bis drollig lustig und man kann ständig Kleinigenkeiten im Hintergrund entdecken.Davon abgesehen konnte ich die Mumins von einer ganz neuen, nicht immer sympathischen Seite kennen lernen.
Papa Mumin ist z.B. unheimlich egoistisch und stellt seine Lust nach Abenteuer weit über seine Familie.
Von Snorkmaiden darf ich gar nicht anfangen: eingebildet und immer nach anderen Männern aus und trotzdem kann Mumin nicht von ihr lassen.Nichtsdestotrotz sind die Mumins so unheimlich komisch und so knuffig gezeichnet, dass man sie nur liebhaben kann.

Quizás más conocidos por las series de dibujos animados, aquí comienzan las aventuras de una familia de trolls escandinavos llamados Mumins (con todos los demás personajes clásicos como Snufkin y Stiff) . Las historias pueden parecer sencillas, pero encierran enseñanzas valiosas sin ser moralistas, especialmente graciosa es la historia en la Riviera francesa (todos los fans queremos ir a Moomin World o al Museo en Tampere). Existen distintas ediciones en español (ojo con las de Siruela), pero yo leí ésta.
I love the surrealism of the Moomins. In the first strips in this book, Moomin is trying to get rid of his house guests, including a deluge of "poor relations," tiny wiggling creatures who show up with their tiny suitcases and demand cocktails. (He provides these, then builds them many tiny beds.) Another unwanted guest eats the timbers of Moomin's house.
It's been way too long since I last read these! Tove Jansson is my favorite and I will never stop admiring her one of a kind imagination and her way with words. Absolutely brilliant.
I felt bad that I was the only person at work who hadn't read this. it was adorable.
I loved the childlike surrealism of this comic.
This was such a cute book. I loved the little details of the comic, and the style in general. The storylines were absurd and unrealistic, in a good way. It just made me happy.
The comic strip adventures of Moomin and friends - cute and absurd and surreal and utterly charming and adorable and wise. Both the writing and the art are enchanting and lovely. Wonderful.
these iconically weird comics were published in the mid fifties. i find something deeply reassuring every time i rediscover that we, as people, have always been unserious and quirky.
"Täti on irti!"
It's ridiculous how long it's taken me to read Moomin, but after seeing Moomin paraphernalia all over Helsinki, I finally took the plunge. And I'm so glad I did. I love this book to pieces.
More enjoyable adventures with the Moomin family. Jansson remains a unique voice and being able to enjoy her world in comic strip form is a treat.
My favorite Moomin line: "I only want to live in peace and plant potatoes and dream!"
I came to this sideways. I bought a set of dishes with the Moomin characters on them, then a month or two later noticed this book at the local library. The art is charming, the story strange and meandering. It's not quite my cup of tea, but I like the characters.
Actual Rating: 5+/5Trebuie să încep prin a zice că domnul Mecklenfeld este principalul vinovat pentru care am intrat în lumea Mominilor (multe mulțumiri)!
Personajele create de Tove au fost geniale și în cele 4 povești grafice din acest roman le-am urmărit trecând printr-o serie de peripeții (chiar prea multe peripeții)!De la o imagine la alta, autoarea reușește să te captiveze și să te amuze.
Își dorește în fiecare clipă "să se petreacă ceva" și cu siguranță, dorințele lui se împlinesc, având parte de multe aventuri neașteptate.Tușa Jeni, Puftabac, Mimba, Marchizul Mongaga, pirații și alții, sunt toate personaje care îl țin pe cititor într-un râs continuu!
Moomin and the Brigands: 3.5/5Moomin and Family Life: 3.5/5Moomin on the Riviera: 3/5Moomin's Desert Island: 2/5
Aunque recuerdo poco de la trama de los episodios, me acuerdo muy bien cómo era que mi mamá y yo no sentábamos a verlos por Canal 11.
Si vuelve es tuyo, y si no nunca lo fue".El año pasado, por fechas decembrinas, volví a encontrarme con uno de los libros de los moomins, pero no con el mismo: este era de cómics, era más gordito y tenía una presentación todavía más bonita ♥Este tomo recopila 4 historias, todas independientes de las otras y con un final cerrado.
Recuerdo a mi mamá mencionar que aunque la serie le gustara, le parecía demasiado "estresante", cosa que yo no comprendía.
This is the first time I've properly dabbled my toes in moomin comic strips.
I just love them.
I say almost, because there isn't much Snufkin in this book, and there is absolutely no Little My. However, as it is book one of ten, I have to hope she will be popping up later on.There are four stories in this book, including Moomins at the Riviera, which was made into an animated film a couple of years ago (also worth a look for Moomin fans), although it was interesting to see elements from the other stories here had been nabbed and mingled in with the Riviera film to bulk out the story.
A gift, celebrating enjoyment of Moomin stories. -Sniff! Father and Mother have been lost in the spring cleaning!- There you are, NEVER tidy up.- I expect they have just gone off for a while.- But WHY?-Oh just fun. Have you never wanted to run away from home? Even parents need a change sometimes...- Snufkin, you know the world. What does one do when one's parents have run away-Nothing. - But I must do SOMETHING about it!- Come and have a swim with me.-- Do you think they have been drowned?- No, I think they are having a splendid time.
