https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43799.Exit_to_Eden
This is the romance your mother never had the guts to read. The sexual escapades you never thought to dream of and will probably never attempt. She is the your alter-ego as you sweep floors and clean toilets wishing instead you were flicking leather whips onto the backside of firm tanned flesh. He is the man holding in a secret wish to be dominated in a world where his wealth and good looks make him lord of all he sees. Harlequin Romances are for children, Anne Rice wrote a love story for adults.
The impression is given that he has a strong leaning towards being a homosexual and only a mild interest in women.Soon our two characters find themselves at The Club; Lisa at the end of a trip to visit her family and Elliott at the start of his two year contract as a slave.
Call me old fashioned, but when I read BDSM erotica I want there to actually be some bite to the sex sense.I’m also not so big on a main character who after falling in love with her “slave” becomes so overcome with guilt and shame at her sexual history that she practically can’t function and starts to drink herself silly.
i like anne rice.
but, as always with an anne rice book, the story was good and the writing was not.
they escape said island.
nope, it was the guy's unrealized fantasy, which he realized after they'd escaped the island.
he rubbed butter and cinnamon on her breasts, her cooter and IN her cooter.
yep, he put butter and cinnamon inside her.
it is so unsanitary and potentially unsafe to put a food product inside yourself or another.
and too, who the fuck wants to lick butter?
but besides the not super writing and the gross ass butter scene,
Neither of them expected to find real attraction in Eden and neither of them, but least of all Lisa, is prepared for the conflict and confusion these new feelings bring with them.When Lisa flees Eden, taking Elliot with her, she’s not only breaking all the rules she so carefully set herself, she is also opening herself up to the sort of turmoil she’s ill equipped to deal with.This is very much a book in two parts.
It just gets 'outside my box' when it is male-male, female penetrating male, and "consensual rape".
It is written well, it was just not really in my genre of books to read.Negative Critiques I am pushing to find a negative critique: The ending of the story wrapped up quickly.
I would have enjoyed the ending of the book more-so if the main characters had more personal obstacles/roadblocks/what not to overcome.
However, all throughout the book, they continuously drink a lot of alcohol.
But they both go soft for each other and fall in love so deeply over a couple of days that they take off from this island paradise and run around the states throwing money at limousines and five star restaurants and elaborate hotels and dumb rich people bullshit while reverting to a tender vanilla sex relationship.
They've seen no real struggle and wallowed in money their whole lives and are as boring and one-dimensional as hell, in spite of being lucky enough to live rich lives full of experience.
barely remember it—but what i do remember bears exactly zero resemblance to the rosie o'donnel film of the same name.no wonder anne rice hates hollywood.
I was over ten years old when the film Exit to Eden first came out, and memory recollects that it is a comedy and a quick online search shows that it is a far departure from the beautiful story written by Ms. Rice.
When I really love a book, I take my time to read it, putting it down to absorb the story and think through the events, thoughts and feelings of the characters.
I would love to see this book turned into a film.
If you love Romance with a BDSM kick, then Exit to Eden is the book for you.
Pliny the Younger recounted that while living at his the house of his uncle, the famous Pliny the Elder, that the uncle would make, "extracts of everything he read, and always said that there was no book so bad that some good could not be got out of it." (Letters 3.5.8-12)It seems that Ms Rice has spent her professional career trying to prove the elder Pliny wrong.
The good in it is that it inspired a film.
Now, I have not seen the film, and have no intention of ever so doing.
Ugggh.
I won't say that there aren't small parts of EoE that are intriguing or even hot, 'cause there are.
But any semblance of interest this book could have for me is totally ruined by the dynamic between the female and male leads.I'll say spoiler alert for the following, though honestly I'm just saving you time:-Male "sub" lead is not a sub at all and is, in fact, annoying chauvinistic and toppish and an all-around jerk-Female "domme" lead is somehow entranced by Mr. Neanderthal and in the end falls totally in wuv with his unbreakable spirit or some other line of horseshit-They end up together in a sort of him topping sort of relationship though it's not definedSo basically, powerful woman meets chauvinist man and realizes that that is what she needed all this time and wuv commences.Please kill me.
Anne Rice published this book under the name Anne Rampling in 1985. To add to the mystery or a marketing decision?! The first 200 pages read like SF with well thought out details of how "The Club" works. The next 80 pages or so turn into a bad tourist guide for New Orleans when Elliott and Lisa visit many famous restaurants and bars and eat and drink excessively. That's when they realized they are madly in love with one another. The sudden change in the storyline was very disappointing.
Written in Anne Rice’s eloquent yet direct style, ‘Exit to Eden’ is one of the best erotic novels this reader has enjoyed.
This book is a good introduction to Anne Rice’s writing style.
I suppose this could be said about most erotic novels, however what set this one apart for this reader was that it was about two individuals stripping away themselves through raw sexuality and in the end finding love - instead of two individuals finding love and then trying to cope with their sexual issues.
As usual, Anne Rice's frank portrayal of exotic sex took this reader to previously unexplored realms.
Ann Rice, in the guise of her alter egos, likes to explore the world of submission and dominance in directions that are fascinating in some ways, but not really to my personal taste.
I'm mystified by those reviews that claim this book isn't graphic.
It isn't wall-to-wall hardcore porn, but there are definitely graphic sex scenes.
Nothing wrong with that, just be aware of it if you don't want a sexual book.
Finally, the book's ending really bothered me.
without including spoilers, the shift from fantasy porn to harlequin romance really bothered me.
Erotica should never be boring. No excuses, Rice!
The book felt shocking and scandalous then, but now it feels - to me - like a traditional romance novel surrounded by the trappings of BDSM.
However, it's also a traditional romance novel in which two adults fall madly in love with each other, get engaged, and ultimately decide BDSM doesn't work for them any longer.Lisa, the female protagonist, has spent her entire adult life engulfed in BDSM, and views it as her vocation.
She can't reconcile the two elements of herself - someone who enjoys/enjoyed kinky sex, and someone whom Elliot can love.(view spoiler)[They then, on the very last page, get engaged.
Una trama que todo fan de Las 50 Sombras de Grey (ya que ha surgido la insultante comparación) debería leer para que luego quemen esos tres libros que son una ofensa a ese mundo tan fascinante que nos presenta Anne Rice en esta serie de literatura erótica.
Lisa es un personaje muy bien construido, algo dañado pero fuerte, que cae en la inevitable debilidad de la vida junto con un hombre que resulta atractivo en todos los sentidos posibles.
(Which is around the time I read it.)The novel goes along well enough for the first half, but then the main characters 'go conventional'.
This can work, if you truly feel there has been an inclination on the part of the character to do so.
At the time this was written it could've been considered somewhat groundbreaking in subject matter, but, in the end, it falls short of this.
That was a shame.I'm a fan of Rice's writing, but at times I do feel she falls into formula, and lacks the edgy dark beauty that she is capable of.
Now, whereas I hated the Sleeping Beauty series, I really enjoyed Exit to Eden.
Who *wouldn't* want to give Eden a try?
I particularly enjoyed some of the scenes in the book that could never have graced the big screen, (the carnival scenes, for example), but I must say...
I got a little irritated in the second half of the book that focused far too much on the, "Woe 'tis me, I guess I must have a relationship, hm?" I'm all for a happy ending, but it got a tad long-winded here and there in the messy diatribe of "Should I or shouldn't I be with him?"Cue the flailing heroine and me fetching my gin and tonic in an effort to read on with renewed determination.Overall, however, it was a hot, fun, silly read, which can be some of the best.
It's a step beyond erotica and S&M; it's more of a journey of how love grows when one doesn't even know it.
Lisa's character is very raw, her sexual growth is very real, her experiences are something that a lot of people go through when they grow into sexuality at an early age, and then start discovering what their feelings are.Elliot...oh dear, Elliot kills me, I just love him.
Elliot is very real, he's the imperfect man that's so perfect because of his reality, because he's unafraid to be in touch with his sexuality, to live those dark fantasies most of us have but never dwell upon.I also have to express my deep love for Martin Halifax; he's the pillar of the cloud.
I absolutely adore this book. With so many new stories about BDSM, I find myself always going back to this novel as if it is some sort of "source material" that others used and created new tales with. The storyline is steamy. I keep trying to find stories that feel original, and just cannot find something like this. Truly one of my favorite Anne Rice novels. Not to mention, there's a cute film adaptation if you're interested in adaptation theory.
It starts off hot and sexy, but develops into a typical romance. I liked the book enough to finish it, but I was a bit disappointed.
(hide spoiler)] I was positively affected by Lisa and Elliot's relationship; way more than a lot of other love stories I've read.
I love finishing a book knowing that I went through the journey with the couple from beginning to end and feeling like the love developed came from not just a character, but as if he or she were real people.
Or focusing way too much on the sex and writing about it like it was strictly a science experiment (no creativity or elements of progression within the character) and as if sex is the only way people can fall in love.
Anne Rice by any name has written both fiction and fantasy novels.
The story line makes sense; the characters are well drawn and developed within the confines of this novel.
In the realms of BDSM, it is more on the lines of BD (bondage and discipline) and DS (domination and submission) than the SM (sadomasochism) end of the lifestyle.The private island, and the running of it, unbelievable.
A lot of the story does not even take place on the island.
I have read this novel several times, it stands up against a majority of the competition very well.
This was the first "adult" book I ever read...
I wanted to go to the island she described.
I wanted to feel the sting of the crop on my legs.
And when the two of them escaped to New Orleans, I wanted to experience the buttery nipples, dusted with cinnamon...
I wanted to review it first because it was my first, and it opened my eyes to the possibilities of love that insipid cartoons and romance novels had held closed.
I am so grateful this book existed, along with Belinda which I read immediately afterwards, because sometimes even fiction can still speak Truth.
Don't get me wrong, I understand (sort of) why the book went in the direction it did.
People change.
Your way of looking at life changes.
And I LIKED the way it ended.
I didn't LOVE the way it ended.I like how you get to know the characters.
Even if you don't get into the S&M/B&D scene personally, you can begin to understand why it can be appealing to the people who do.
All in all, I liked it.
But I think if you can get your head around the premise, which will be easier for some than others, you'll enjoy this book.
I had read this when I was a teenager, and remember it being really good - so when I saw it in a used bookstore, I figured I'd give it another read.Truthfully, I saw more flaws this time around than high points.
It felt like the book didn't know what it was trying to be - was it erotica?
I don't know which one it was trying to be, but even if you split the book into its component parts, none of them were good examples of that genre.
The erotica wasn't sexy enough.
The romance wasn't dreamy enough.
If you have seen the movie, there is little that stayed the same.
There are no cops, the slaves where no clothing and sign a contract and are required to stay the full length of that contract (no matter what).
Way more risqué than the movie.I knew this going in, but was still surprise at how different the book it (and I do not mean that it was more sexually graphic).
In the movie, the cop story was a large part of the movie and it is not in the book.
I can also see a lot of Anne Rice's Sleeping Beauty series (just much tamer) in this book.
A number of people I know recommended this, telling how great a novel it was.
It is a OK novel, not great, not bad, but it definitely did not live up to the recommendations.
I think Anne Rice (the author) is at her best describing her characters world, their surroundings and this book is good at that.
Anne Rice goes on later in her career with some very memorable characters, this book did not have them.
I would guess that part of the "cult" status of this book had to do with "The Club" and the world surrounding it.
A surprisingly sweet little tale that at first glance seemed to be a titillating account of life as part of an S&M club (told through Lisa, The Perfectionist and the brains behind the club, and Elliott, a new slave), but turned out to be a story of the intimacy and vulnerability that is awoken through completely giving up control and surrendering yourself to another.Containing an interesting take on sex and relationships, and extremely graphic, this isn't one for the faint-hearted or easily shocked but recommended nonetheless (especially for Teresa!)
