https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1175192.The_Head_Girl_of_the_Chalet_School
Although this doesn't have the same grip as the three earlier novels, it's still highly entertaining - particularly the sections containing the Hotel fire and the Gollum-like creature that captures both the Robin and Cornelia. This isn't classed as fantasy but it sure feels like it!
And so, The Head Girl Of The Chalet School is very much a great installment in the series, focused this time on erstwhile troublemaker Grizel Cochrane as she tries to make good in the titular post in her beloved school.
Perhaps it just felt a bit disjointed, with Grizel's spiky character disappearing after the first couple of chapters into Brent-Dyer's attempt to reform her once and for all.
And because this Grizel disappears a little into the Head Girl she must become, the story feels a bit humdrum, even though plenty happens.
Head girls have been and gone (my beloved Bette Rincini has not had her moment in the sun but this is addressed by Helen McClelland's excellent Visitors for the Chalet School) and now it is Grizel's turn.
There are of course the traditional 'oh my god is she dead' moments that only the Chalet School can carry off, and an amazing cameo from an already established character in the series.
(A brief pause: we're four books in, four!, and yet this series is already so layered and thick and satisfying and Brent-Dyer is quite genuinely throwing everything at it like some gorgeous mad scientist of writing and I love it, I love it).Also it's Cornelia Flower's first term.
The tropes for the series are firmly in place by this fourth installment: Someone gets hurt, someone gets sick, someone runs away from the school and gets lost/hurt.
(Item: "Grizel" really was a popular name at the beginning of the 20th century in upper-class England; David Niven had a sister named Grizel.) She is named head girl in hopes it will be the making of her, and of course it is--after she is twice unconscious for days!
And I do laugh over the Chalet School stories, usually in the most tragic places!

It's interesting to begin a book with a girl running - but not away, rather to something.
Of course, it's a place she isn't meant to go and this shadow could be seen as the shadow that haunts a lot of Grizel's actions for the first half of this book.
It is noteworthy that, unlike earlier books, here we have the major illness happening behind the scenes, allowing the focus to be on the perpetrator.
This book is interesting in terms of the CS series because it adopts some of the other concepts EBD has introduced in the La Rochelle series, in particular the concept of fairy-folk and witchcraft.
In this book, Grizel Cochrane is made head girl for two terms.
The staff are not sure that she will cope, particularly when her temper makes her do something irresponsible shortly before she takes up her new role.However, Grizel determines to succeed.
Her two terms as head girl are enlivened by a revengeful prefect, a snow fight which turns nasty, various weddings, an abduction, a trip to Salzburg that has an unpleasant ending, and a surprising discovery.
Great characterisation, interesting plotlines, and all the more enjoyable to read in hardback!
It's many years since I read this, even in the abridged paperback version, and I'd forgotten most of it.
Book 4 - Grizel stuffs up in the beginning, but then generally acts like an exemplary head girl. There's a kidnapping incident with the Robin, a marriage (and a bit of a speech to Grizel about how marriage is a woman's true destiny, etc), and a snow ball fight. Cornelia Flower is introduced, and is American and terrible for a little while, before reforming. Madge and Jem's have their first baby, despite absolutely no mention of Madge's pregnancy, which is rather funny, and Grizel readies herself to leave the school.
Not one of my favourites, although I've still given it 5*, as they are such cute stories. I thought Grizel was a strange choice for head girl given her history, still, she proved us all wrong and made the best of it. I like the way the author puts in little familiar references, Frau Berlin appears in the fire! Also funny that the only reference to Madge's pregnancy is that a walk is too much for her, then we're told she's given birth!
Grizel Cochrane, the reluctant school girl of _The School at the Chalet_ has unexpectedly become Head Girl, a bold move on the part of the school administration. Can she live up to the responsibility of her position? Can she follow the motto, "School First, Self Last"? when Cornelia is captured by a deranged tramp Grizel's mettle is tested. Grizel is a flawed character, thus more interesting than some of the more virtous characters in the Chalet School books.
Grizel's just been appointed head girl in this book, a task which she is not looking forward to, because she knows that she'll have to put the school first and herself last. She's put through many tests, from a fire in the hotel when a group of them are staying for the holidays, to a revengeful girl in school, but comes through with flying colours.
This is the fourth in the Chalet girl series. It's not my favourite as it focuses on Grizel who is not my favourite character. She goes through trials in order to become head girl and then has to show everyone she was the right choice.
First read of the unabridged text with the new Girls Gone By edition. Interesting as usual to see what the paperback edition omitted.
Not one of my favourites - I just never liked Grizel.
Reminded me of reading Enid Blyton school stories when younger. Rather old fashioned now as written in 1928, but a relaxing easy read.
I love these books!! They were my favourite when I was growing up and I loved reading the stories...:)
My next installment in this classic series.I love the series even though I am also happy to take the
I finally acquired the uncut hardback of this and I am amazed at how much was cut from the paperbacks. Finally I know who The Stuffer and Maria are! And a whole lovely chapter on girls talking to Madge. I think this is a lovely picture of Madge the Headmistress. We also fill out Grizel's character a lot more. I loved this.
Apart from this, there is lots of Chaletish stuff going on - old girls get betrothed, staff get married, it snows, it's very hot (there's a reason EBD doesn't normally put two terms into the same book) - and the story is really about Grizel's journey from uncaring rebel to tophole head girl.It's not a hugely convincing journey.
She does indeed become a tophole head girl, but the uncaring rebel inside never really goes away and, as the rest of the series shows, comes back to the fore quite quickly.
