https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1304562.Santa_s_Toy_Shop
I know that I had read this book as a child and yet I am still not quite sure as a Disney child where this fits into actual Disney.
The other thing is that this book is quite interesting if the way that it reads.
The book says this is the doll room but doesn't describe what each of the elves is doing thus allowing for parents to discuss the various activities and then onto the next page where you repeat it with another department.
Although the result is a bit on the strange side it fits the book.
Oh my goodness, Goodreads is awesome if it has this book on it! This is one of my all-time favorite picture books. My copy was so well-loved that I had to buy a back-up copy for whenever I have kids. :) The old-fashioned illustrations have a quality that no one now could duplicate. I absolutely love it.
I remember this fondly from my childhood, so I was excited to find it. The illustrations are lovely.
We had this book when we were little and I recently bought a copy and read it again. I think I only like it so much for the good memories.
My sister and I didn't just read the Christmas themed Little Golden Books at Christmas, we read them all year. Did we have some kind of book or reading addiction?
My favorite Christmas book as a child, and my mom told me her favorite when she was a child. It holds up really well and has a great Disney Christmasy feel. It's not Christmas without this book.Featured on the No Extra Words podcast Special #21.
Christmas time books always put a smile on my face. Walt Disney always did it best.
easy to read
I remember this book growing up and was excited to read it to my kids. I wasn't as impressed the second time around. I thought it was kind of wordy and didn't really flow very well. The illustrations are the best part. However, the kids enjoyed it, so I liked it. On another note, I remember the Disney short cartoon and loved that, it's a classic.
It is an adorable story. Yes I have two of these books. One is dated 1978 and is blue. I purchased this one for my daughter's 6th Christmas in 1987. I do not know the year it was actually printed. It is a very cute book. Our older boys were 4, 5 and 6 when we purchased the older book.
I suspect that this is one of those things that I thought was the coolest thing ever as a child, and then could never remember enough about it to find it as an adult. I sort of remember reading it a couple dozen times.
I wish the rhyming were more consistent throughout the book. Nice artwork, but the elves need more diversity.
It is an adorable book!
Oh I loved this story book as a child. I wish I could find it again.
Warm nostalgia washed over me as just seeing the cover reminded me of early xmas's. I don't remember if i ready it was read to me.....
Not that great.
Nt spectacular. Kind of on the same level as television Christmas specials such as Frosty and Rudolph.
Loved it a lot!
Fun.
This is one of my all-time favorite Christmas books for younger readers. I love the illustrations, the story is simple but enjoyable, and it just leaves me with nice, warm, fuzzy feelings.
One of my favorite Little Golden Books. Did I read it as a child? Probably, but not sure. Certainly read it to my daughter in the late 1970s/early 1980s and to grandchildren in this century.
Perfect children's book for Christmas. It is extremely fun and enjoyable for the whole family.
A family favorite
I loved this book as a child and my boys have enjoyed it this Christmas as well.
