https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12593.The_Wide_Net_and_Other_Stories
First Love - in a settler town the very tail of the Natchez Trace, a deaf-mute orphan Joel describes a series of meetings between Aaron Burr and Harman Blennerhassett who hideout in his room; you need to know a little bit of history in order to enjoy this story.
(3 stars)The Wide Net - William Wallace Jamieson contemplates his young, pregnant wife's possible suicide by drowning; Hazel Jamieson left her husband a note blaming him for abandoning her by staying out all night drinking with his friends; William Wallace calls his friends for help (4 stars)A Still Moment - a priest, a scientist and a murder meet on the road.
I didn't rate this book of short stories because I just finished the second one, which happens to be the title story, "The Wide Net." It is about a young man who becomes angry with his pregnant wife and decides to go on an all-night toot. At least, that is what it ended up being. The next morning when he returns home his wife is not there.  "Then when he got back to the front room he saw she had left him a little letter in an envelope. That was doing something behind someone's back. He took out
I didn't rate this book of short stories because I just finished the second one, which happens to be the title story, "The Wide Net." It is about a young man who becomes angry with his pregnant wife and decides to go on an all-night toot.
After one look he was scared to read the exact words, and he crushed the whole thing in his hand instantly, but what it had said was that she would not put up with him after that and was going to the river to drown herself."'Drown herself ...
Is "The Wide Net" comedy?
I was way more into this than A Curtain of Green and Other Stories and loved the Natchez Trace link between them all. "First Love" was my favorite -- what can I say, unexpected 18th century settings, featuring founding fathers, are my kryptonite. You could have worse kryptonites... like kryptonite.
The really interesting part of this book is Welty's narrative structure, which aligns each of the stories -- despite separate characters, forms and times -- along the historical Southern trade route called the Natchez Trace. Not all of the stories are truly mind-blowingly great, but the collection as a whole is important. Highlights for me are the title story, "First Love," and "A Still Moment."
“She would like to tell him some strange beautiful thing, if she could speak at all, something to make him speak. Communication would be telling something that is all new, so as to have more of the new told back.”
This book was read as a part of The Collected Stories of Eudora Welty.
The fat man launches into a story of a woman in a purple hat who has come into the Palace of Pleasure every day for thirty years and meets a young man there.
The fat man tells the story of the murders.
The fat man shortly after pays the bar bill and also leaves the bar but not before he says he will be back tomorrow to continue the story.
Another mystery of meaning that will have to wait until another day to be deciphered.How do you read Eudora Welty?
So far only read The Wide Net. The story evokes a feeling of this is how it always goes, a matter-of-fact slice of reality.
The story gently eases any expectation for drama with its hypnotic, deliberate pace, its indifference toward suspense.It may be just as effective without dialogue, a silent film.
The dialogue, though, complements this pace.
Sometimes a sentence slips from a character's mouth and hangs, echoing, in the space of the page, eventually fading and swallowed by the Mississippi landscape.When focusing on one character, you feel all the other characters present, somewhere.
The story feels so present.
I have never been so immersed in the worlds of an author's creation, as I am with the stories of Eudora Welty. Not only does she wrap you in the sights, sounds, smells, and textures of her characters' lives, she takes you into their hearts and minds as well. By the time you finish each story, you feel as if you've truly been somewhere, good or bad. These stories are incredibly rich in detail, sometimes joyous, sometimes heartbreaking, sometimes utterly confusing, but all are masterpieces.
Even when a story doesn't quite lift it always instills a sense of nature, yearning and thoughtfulness. When Welty succeeds at connecting her characters, their desires and the appeal of nature, the work moves and feels the inside and the out until one is aware of something profound, forever distant and forever near.
If you like Welty's more mythical and dreamy stories, you'll love A Wide Net. Some of the stories, such as "At the Landing," seem to bear some relation to the Natchez Trace and the imaginative world of The Robber Bridegroom, Welty's novella released the previous year (1942). Recommended.
An excellent collection of short stories. Eudora Welty is one of my favorite authors. She draws a lot of her stories from her life experiences in Mississippi. Her sense of place is really powerful.
A great collection of short stories by Eudora Welty. They range from the rolicking title story to the surreal, other worldly story about a deaf boy's encounter with Aaron Burr to The Landing, a story about a young woman who gives her heart and everything she owns in unrequitted love
Welty, EudoraThe Collected Stories of Eudora WeltyIn compilation only.1) First Love2) The Wide Net3) A Still Moment4) Asphodel5) The Winds6) The Purple Hat7) Livvie8) At the Landing
The former is a one scene story where a man recollects to a stranger stories of an older woman with a purple hat who entices and entrances young men only to discard them when she achieves her goal.
In Livvie we see a young woman married to a septuagenarian and as he approaches death embracing what that might mean for her.
In the final story we meet a young woman being raised by her grandfather.
The man has kept her to a very sheltered existence but now as he approaches his death the young lady is going to see her life change.
I wanted to like these a little more than I did. I'm a big fan of the setting and I really appreciated the Natchez connection between all the stories but though a good number are very good, some of these felt a little dull. Perhaps I wasn't in the right frame of mind to read them, these are stories to take your time with, to appreciate detail and nuance and I might have rushed through some. Anyway, Welty is at her best when she's writing dialog and the title story is a great demonstration of that.
I didn't find these stories that memorable with the exception of the title story which is pretty great, thanks to hilarious dialogue, lots of action, and a touch of magical realism. The writing is well-crafted throughout but the characters don't do very much in most stories, nor do they have interesting interior lives besides being sheltered and lovesick. There is a Southern slowness and humidity to these stories but not much payoff for enduring it.
Eudora Welty (I have typed that as Wlety about 1000 times in my lifetime from back in my college days when I wrote a long term paper on her novel The Optimist’s Daughter – End digression) still remains a soft-hearted version of Flannery O’Connor in that her characters are often larger than life, but they aren’t grotesque masques of humanity.The best story in this collection by far is the title story.
But this was October, and it was six months away, and she acted exactly as though it would be tomorrow.”I am challenged by my feelings about Welty (got it that time) because I have read a few of her books and I try really hard to like her.
Read as part of The Collected Stories.As solid as Welty's writing can be, I think it's impossible to understand and ultimately enjoy the stories in this collection without some sort of background knowledge, for they are not what they seem (in most cases).
I didn't have that background knowledge and therefore can honestly say that the deeper meaning of these stories went over my head, and despite my best intentions I was unable to unpack some underlying themes or read between the lines at all times.
A deeply interesting and intriguing collection of stories by Eudora Welty.
Containing a collection of eight stories the book explores themes such as love, fear, affection, magic, death and life.
I loved some of the stories especially the purple hat, Livvie, the wide net, Asphodel and at the landing.
Once I start reading these stories, I cannot wait to finish the entire collection.
At the same time I also do not want to finish reading them since I will have nothing left to read.A wonderful collection of stories and some like the purple hat has even been adapted into a movie.
Oh, Alright! I'm not going to finish this. I was never going to finish this.I don't know if it's the history lesson, the writing style, the lack of sensuality, or the larger-than-usual print, but this felt very much like an elementary school reading text book.Don't get me wrong. Endora Welty is good at what she does. Some of her descriptions are quite lovely. It's just, I was very aware I was reading a book. That's all I'm saying!
The book was not for me.
I've read just the story "The Wide Net".
I wish I felt differently, but just not for me. Descriptive writing has its fans. I just felt lost in a stream of images that meant nothing to me.
perhaps one must be southern to appreciate her?
for dreamers of pecan trees, glass bottle branches, and dusty dirt lawns...
"First Love" was amazing, rest didn't hit the notes.
Inimitable.
She is the Ernest Hemingway of southern female writers.
