https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/669570.Dragon_Slippers
My first published novel, and I have to say: I am pretty DARN impressed with myself! I read it aloud to my son (6 years old) because he wanted to know what was in Mommy's books. He liked it as well!
But I wanted to get through this book at least once to say that finally I have read a book recommended to me by Goodreads!
Creel is given to the dragon named Theoradus who doesn't want any fight with the knight.
Like: Glasses, Slippers, Books, Dogs etc...
Theoradus collectef slippers.=> I was annoyed by the fact that why the dragons were not telling Creel the purpose of Slippers??
Almost above half of the book Creel didn't know why her slippers were soo strange?
So I would suggest you to control yourself while reading.=> The concept of slippers was a bit odd yet amazing.
Instead, I got a somewhat humorous political story with a strong female heroine whose strength isn’t in fighting, but is a good planner and willing to do what she must to save her friends.I hesitated to read this book for some time, because the premise reminded me of Wrede’s books, which I love, and I was afraid that the book would be one of those situations where I’m reading it, wondering why I’m not reading the other book.
One element I really loved was how strong a character Creel was without having to fit into a “girl becomes a warrior” model.
She doesn’t want to be involved with the fate of her country, but she’ll do what she has to to protect her friends.Another great element of the book is the use of dragons as characters.
All I would read was fantasy (I know better now) but I would have gobble this up then just like I did now.Creel is a poor girl from Carlieff, she has lost her mother and father and is now living with her aunt.
In the story the dragons are personable (if that makes sense) and are characters in their own right.
Creel herself will come to have a strong bond with the golden dragon Shardas.Pace, character development, world building, little twists, and plot were right on.
It flows right and looks like it was done with ease, though still having the tension you need in a story.
*reads original review**groans inwardly*15 year old Amy strikes again...This was a wonderful re-read.
Creative, well-paced, and fun...definitely a treasure.
I definitely disagree with my original assessment of religion in this book.
Of course, I also appreciate myth a lot more now than I did at that age...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~This was a highly amusing, very well written book.
I truly enjoyed it, and found the most distracting fault in the main character's praying to the three gods/godess of her "religion".
Pretty much, that is why this book doesn't get five stars.I truly apreciated discovering that George shares my love of writers like Robin McKinley, Patricia C.
This is the British edition of Dragon Slippers. I love it, it's a fun cover, and they've changed the spellings: color to colour, etc. Also, they made me take out the word 'bloody', which is in the American version!
Bravo! I have to confess, as much as I try to keep my tastes liberal (I read classics, memoirs, fiction and non-fiction), this is really my favorite kind of book. I'm proud to be your goodreads friend, Jessica--this book was pure fun! I especially liked the subtle reference to Goose Girl, another of my favorite reads. This book is the rags-to-riches, up-by-her-bootstraps story of a plucky, talented girl who happens to run into dragons a lot. I loved the characters and the humor. I was glad to see the open ending and can't wait to get on to the sequel.
;)Creel's adventures, right from the time she is sacrificed to a dragon, by her aunt in the hope that a local prince will rescue and then marry her, to the end of the book is definitely full of fun, a little bit of poignancy, a lot of dedication and will, and definitely one to be admired.
Whatever be my reaction to it, it doesn't take away the fact that this is indeed a cute book, definitely meant for the young but can be enjoyed by those who like such simple tales told akin to how fairy and folk tales have been narrated the world over.
While its intended for younger readers, I still enjoyed Creel’s tale of heroism and adventure – it’s crazy to think about how this is acclaimed children/YA fantasy author Jessica Day George’s first book.
Larkin, a girl Creel meets pretty early in the story, is crippled – initially, Creel assumes that she’s sweet, well-mannered, and quiet.
I admire her for the subtle messages she weaves into her stories, whether they are intentional or not.I once again must thank my best friend for buying Dragon Slippers for me.
Highly recommended for younger readers and for anyone searching for a well-written fantasy story about dragons.*review cross-posted on my blog, the quiet voice.
I distinctly remember why I chose to read this book.
Who knew the chain of events afterwards leads her to blueskin slippers, a golden dragon king, and a handsome prince?
Early on I got that the slippers she had were important to the dragons, and I like how the villains and conflict was portrayed.
The ending is not a cliffhanger but rather makes the reader yearn for more of Creel's story.
The other two books in the series Dragon Flight and Dragon Spear have been released and are as good, if not, better than Dragon Slippers.
You are missing out if you don't read this series!!
I love the Buffy film, and Legally Blonde, because they take young women with girly interests and use those to literally and metaphorically kick ass. The heroine here is a talented seamstress, in a world where dressmaking is entirely manual labor. While I enjoy a story about a girl taking up a sword to fight a dragon, a story in which a girl makes a deal with a dragon is even better. And also, it reminds me of Dealing with Dragons.Brilliant.Library copy
Too bad though a dragon really does live in the cave and after Creel's relatives leave her there to be eaten, she is taken inside and gets to meet a dragon.
They come to an arrangement and she ends up being let go with some shoes that she loves and is determined to make her way to the King's Seat in order to get a job working as a seamstress.
Creel eventually gets to the King's Seat and realizes her working in a store for someone else isn't all it's cracked up to be.
When Creel is taken in by a reluctant dragon, she manages to talk her way out of being held prisoner for the unlucky young lord and leaves the dragon's lair with a pair of beautiful blue slippers on her feet - a gift from the Dragon's unexpected hoard (he collects shoes, not gold).
Dragon Slippers by Jessica Day George is similar - the same frustrated, headstrong, clever type of heroine and dealing with remarkable, quirky dragons - but also decidedly unique, as this particular story involves a kingdom at war, spies and traitors, and a magical pair of shoes.
Hating to be a burden and hoping for a new and better life Creel reluctantly agrees to go with her Aunt's crazy plan to be captured by a dragon.
In order to save herself and the dragon anymore trouble she strikes a bargain and ends up with a pair of very nice and very unique pair of slippers.
Because of these slippers Creels encounter other dragons, gets on the bad side of the new princess to be, and has a chance of making her dream come true all while having to save the kingdom from certain disaster.
Why is there always something in the way of Creel finding out what the slippers do?
I was about to give it 2 stars until I reached the final few chapters that got me me sitting up in my chair with wide eyes trying to absorb the story as quickly as possible to satisfy my curiosity.
Creel, the heroine main character, is very intelligent as proven many times in the story.
She outwitted wise dragons that have lived for centuries, figured out evil princess Amelia's plans, and even outsmarted the King and his council!...
But there are too many scenes with Creel just sitting around...
time to stop before I drive you crazy with a million questions too.
He gifts Creel with a pair of shoes of her choice and Creel, after choosing a beautiful pair of blue slippers, sets off to seek her fortune in the king's city as a seamstress.
Creel's talent as a seamstress, her wit and courage will all be tested by treachery that leads to war between her beloved dragons and the kingdom.
Creel is a delightful heroine and I thoroughly enjoyed this engaging book.
Creel is an appealling heroine, outspoken, smart and stubborn, who doesn't wait around to be saved and still manages to win her prince.
The author went out of her way to establish that Creel, the main character, was not pretty- oh, but wait!
Can't a girl be smart AND pretty?
Creel WAS smart, and plucky, and compassionate, and a good advocate for herself and her friends.
She was a strong character, so I can forgive the author her earlier mishaps.
I also loved the dragons, who were surprising in the most wonderful way, and the cast of supporting characters, who were superbly drawn.
I ended up simply falling in love with this story, and I'll certainly be checking out the next two volumes of this series.
AMAZING!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
It's not unusual in such stories to have a murderer or a plotter of murder to find themselves the victim of their own schemes, and forced to eat live coals or placed naked in a barrel of nails and rolled through the streets until dead.Though they were collected and recorded by the Brother's Grimm, the original fairy tales were written mostly by women who had experienced the reality of being orphans at age 10, placed in the custody of people who didn't love them and who often would verbally, physically or sexually abuse them.
The author wants to promote the heroine from being the victim in need of rescue, to the role of fairy tale protector.
Cute story with dragons... But some parts were way too childish and unbelievable...!!
I wanted to love this book, but I could only like it.First, Creel.
I know the title of the book is "Dragon Slippers," but really, the way she came by them makes no sense.
Creel originally wanted something of value from the dragon's hoard, like a fancy schmancy goblet, to sell for some quick cash to get her to the King's Seat.
But when she finds out that the dragon hoards shoes, that plan goes out the window.
The first pair of shoes she describes are ENCRUSTED WITH EMERALDS.
Will Creel (::cringe::) get any smarter?Thus far, the Dragon Slippers series does not supplant The Enchanted Forrest Chronicles in my heart.
I was not that impressed.This book, however, rocks.
Lots and lots of talking dragons with different personalities.
There was something cute and sweet and uplifting about the entire book, although I did hate how that one girl didn't get enough of a comeuppance, seeing as she was not only annoying beyond belief, but was also a traitor into the bargain.(view spoiler)[One scene that the author put in stuck in my head in particular, which was when Creel first meets the bevy of girls in the dressmaking shop.
Their different personalities, their colors...they were simply the best part of the entire book.
She was completely delightful and tons of fun, and her book was as great as she was.
It is the story of a young girl named Creel who is given to a dragon when her family can no longer support her.
From that moment on I knew I had a winning book in my hands.
Creel is a great heroine and a terrific role modle for your kids.
This is a great book for you to read with your kids or let them read without worry.
The dragons are fun, and I could see young boys liking this new fairy tale as much as girls.
So this book was amazing. I was not expecting it to be this good. Gah.
Best book Jessica Day George wrote.
Dragon Slippers (Dragon Slippers, #1) Dragon Flight (Dragon Slippers, #2) Dragon Spear (Dragon Slippers, #3) [I wish I had the option of choosing a set]
As soon as I finished reading it at the end of last year, I put the next book in the series, Wednesdays in the Castle, on my Goodreads Want to Read list.I don't know why I hadn't gone looking for more of her books.
It follows the adventures of Creelisle (Creel) Carlbrun as she is first thrust into her aunt's daft plan of having a dragon - who no one knows for a fact exists - capture her so a nobleman can come rescue her and sweep them all away into the lap of luxury.
The slippers end up being a most practical gift, as Creel has to travel some distance to get to the King’s Seat, where she intends to find employment as a seamstress/embroiderer.
Creel and Shardas part as good friends.Creel befriends Prince Luka on her first day in the King’s Seat.
Their efforts to collar all of the dragons are much too time-consuming, and Creel is forced to move more quickly against Princess Amalia.
Although Creel’s attack fails, the dragon queen – thought to be dead these many years – reappears and flies Amalia straight into the Boiling Sea (which, is not only boiling, but also poisonous), and the King’s Seat is saved.
Read this with my 6th Grader. We both really liked it even though neither of us like the fantasy genre. We're excited to read book #2 and see what happens to Creel, Prince Luka and the Dragons
"It was my aunt who decided to give me to the dragon." Creel lives with her aunt and uncle on their poor farm with lots of impoverished cousins.
I fell in love with Luka the very first meeting, and Creel is a charming, determined, feisty heroine with a lot to do and say.
The dragons are amazing, and I love the twist Jessica Day George spins on the creatures.
I own all but two of her books, and would have to say she is my favorite author.
Besides, princesses are my favorite book topics, and that is what she mainly writes about!!!
