https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/145391.I_Hate_You_Don_t_Leave_Me
To sum things up:Borderline personality disorder (BPD) is a serious mental illness marked by unstable moods, behavior, and relationships, It is one of the most common of all of the personality disorders.
Most people who have BPD suffer from:-Problems with regulating emotions and thoughts-Impulsive and reckless behavior-Unstable relationships with other peopleWomen with BPD are more likely to have co-occurring disorders such as major depression, anxiety disorders, or eating disorders.
In men, BPD is more likely to co-occur with disorders such as substance abuse or antisocial personality disorder A borderline suffers a kind of “emotional hemophilia” they are provoked to rage uncontrollably against the people they love most.
I may be in the minority here, but I hate this book. Its stance on those who deal with BPD is far from empathetic - rather, it perpetuates this myth that all people with BPD are ridiculous and borderline-dangerous individuals who care only for themselves. As someone who suffers from BPD myself, it had me wanting to slit my own throat for the good of humanity by the time I was done. How very "Borderline" of me.
This book is terribly outdated. It lists homosexuality as sexual deviation, and was published before the advent of SSRIs. It also predates the current treatment for borderline personality disorder, Dialetical Behavioral Therapy. Don't bother reading this.
This book uses astonishingly stigmatizing language.
It's the same kind of language that, for example, old-school anthropological studies (ethnographies) tend to use-it renders "the borderline" as both a monolithic type and as other.
Borderline was originally a diagnosis for people, nearly all women, who sought mental health care but didn't get better.
The mental health establishment spent years assuming the treatment failure rests with the borderlines, rather than with their own practices.
This book is a part of a larger trend in mental health care by which Borderline Personality Disorder became the most stigmatized mental disorder in the DSM.
Rather than exploring how BPD patients self-destructive behaviors and possible histories of past physical abuse lead them to stay in abusive relationships, the authors circumvent those aspects with sentences like "provoking" violence and focus on substance abuse.
I think it is important that while dealing with patients or if you have loved ones suffering from any mental illness, not every single behavior is attributed to that original illness, especially with personality disorders.
Besides that, the book offers case studies that trail the behavior of BPD.
I probably would not reccomend the book as a whole to patients for the above mentioned reasons, but definitely copy one of the case studies.
This book does nothing to convince me that the diagnosis of BPD is coherent or particularly useful.
As always, case stories that neatly dovetail with the author's point of view are included, but I found the inclusion of gratuitous diagnosis of famous (and usually beautiful) women as BPD to be highly distasteful.
I can see the appeal of fantasizing about offering therapy to such women, but working out those fantasies in book form is in questionable taste.
Kriesman's (perhaps unconscious) racism is revealed in the story of "Annette," an African American woman whose BPD makes her "too sensitive" to perceived racist slights at her place of work.
This book is about people with Borderline Personality Disorder (BPD), who experience violent mood swings, which interfere with their leading a normal life.
The symptoms are: •A shaky sense of identity, •Sudden violent outbursts, •Severe mood shifts, •Oversensitivity to real or imagined rejection, •Brief, turbulent love affairs, •Frequent periods of intense depression, •Eating disorders, drug or alcohol abuse, and other self-destructive tendencies, •An irrational fear of abandonment and an inability to be alone, •Chronic feelings of emptiness or boredom, •Unstable and intense interpersonal relationships, •Frequent and inappropriate displays of anger.
27-41) The authors claim that someone with four or five of these symptoms would be classified as a person with BPD.
As a mental health professional, I can say that I found this book to be among the best written to help a person better understand their spouse, friend, parent, sibling, etc. who is suffering with Borderline Personality Disorder. It helps the reader to understand how one develops the characteristics one may encounter in relationships with these individuals. A bit technical at times, but true to the criteria as indicated in the Diagnostic and Statistical manual.
While some of the information given by the book can be useful I have stopped reading at 15-20% of it as i couldn't stand the patronizing tone and the way they say borderlines do things as if they wanted to instead of sometimes being just an acquired answer.
Yes, I know we can somehow learn how to deal with things and control the answer to a degree, but it doesn't always work and it is not as if the borderlines want to or enjoy it.
4.5 stars - While in dire need of an update, this book gives a multitude of case studies of fictitious people who are dealing with borderline personality disorder.
Many of the other reviews for this book who suffer from BPD said it made them out to negative people and one person actually said something to the effect of the book making her want to "slit her throat" and made a sarcastic joke about how borderline that made her.
In my opinion, as a diagnosed borderline myself, I feel that her completely negative review with not one positive thing to say is the trait that most indicates the BPD.
This was an interesting read, but the main reason I read it was for research purposes. I have since learned that one of the characters in my book actually has a case of "The Double Bind" personality. Which is why I read The Double Bind by Chris Bohjalian; an enjoyable read, but again, not relevant to my research. The places research can take you! :)
This is the first book I read about BPD. Being a patient myself I found the personal stories of other BPDs and explanations of our conducts to be really good and felt like looking at myself in the mirror. I got a bit bored on the section about the types of psychotherapy because it was a little bit too technical for me but overall is a really good book about the disorder especially for the professionals and the people looking for different types of treatment available (at least in the USA). Must add I read the 2010 edition.
This was a very tough book to get through, because I saw so much of myself in it. If you have BPD, or you know of love someone with it...this is a good book to read. It may help you in understanding a little of what they go through.
I got this book at the library, and lo and behold found out that having a "borderline personality" is a similar but not same diagnosis as "bi-polar".
People with borderline personality condition (BPC) live constantly in a kind of fractured reality.
This book was written in 1989, and contained some remarkably apt comments on why people become borderline.At the age of 18 months to 30 months, toddlers learn about object permanence.
Borderline personalities are those children who because of whatever kind of physical or emotional trauma, never develop this kind of object permanence and relational stability.
This was the ONLY book I could find when searching for something to help me understand my loved one's Borderline Personality Disorder. The book is amazingly detailed, easy to understand with numerous examples and suggestions.
Lots of good information but could certainly be less pathologizing
Described as the definitive work on the subject of borderline personality disorder (BPD), this book is informative and interesting to read.
It does a great job of describing the current diagnostic tools and some of the methods of treatment that are helpful for people suffering from BPD.
I am not arguing with the solid evidence of higher occurrence of BPD in persons with abusive parents or childhood trauma.
What I object to is the complete lack of discussion about the occurrence of BPD in persons with no trauma or abuse in their past and no obvious indicators.
The professionals will get t know the historical background of the illness, in depth description of the symptoms and the most important part is the treatment and tolerance of the reluctant and changing patients.
This benefit will be gained as well from the detailed description of the symptoms that covers all life aspects that can be affected by the illness.
Of course, the treatment and the understanding sections are vital to know that illness can be beaten with therapy, motivation, and commitment of both the professional and the patient.
To gain fully from the book, one reading is definitely not enough!
One was that in the examples the authors kept referring to how borderline "causes" domestic violence; a notion I totally and completely reject.
If anyone would like clarification around this, I can write a lot more on it.My other hang-up was that while the book offered me some insight into life with borderline it didn't inspire a lot of empathy.
I kept wanting to say to the examples "don't do that.
Choose to act differently." I believe I am a person capable of a great amount of empathy, so I'm not sure why this book presented challenges for me in that way.
I love this book.
This is THE BOOK to OWN for anyone that is curious about learning about Borderline Personality Disorder, for the person that has BPD, for a loved one with BPD, or for the therapist.
It is current (2010) and gives stories so you can see what BPD is like.
I got this from the library and I couldn't renew it since so many people were lined up and hand it on hold.
That tells you how many people put this book on hold.
If I was to purchase one book on BPD, this would be it.
While this is a solid introduction to the basics about borderline personality disorder, I have to agree with previous reviews that the entire anecdote about the borderline woman of color who "misreads" or "projects" racism into her workplace conflicts is pretty damn offensive. There's also a troubling grouping of homosexuality with sexual deviancy that hasn't been updated in the new edition, a prissy judgmental attitude toward body modification as a symptom of borderline and a completely misinformed, tone-deaf perception of Twitter as a self-centered enterprise (guys, it's the opposite).
Very good for organising / understanding symptoms, etc. but completely lacked any sensitivity, and I truly resent this habit of talking about people with BPD as if they're impossible and not worth bothering with. If you do that, you're basically saying, 'Go ahead and kill yourself.'
Sexist! Yuck.Keep pushin' me, keep pushin' my lo-oo-oove.
The author refers to people with bpd as “the borderline”.
My biggest beef is that he portrays people with a BPD diagnosis as irrational, sociopathic, narcissistic monsters.
I guess that’s a common assumption among old, boring people, but fuck off with that shit pleeeeeeeeeease, k thx.K, I mentioned he’s sexist, right?
Sorry, BPD people lack empathy?
It pisses me off that people in the mental health field STILL don’t understand BPD and treat it like it’s a disorder for attention seeking, manipulative sociopaths.
Fuck this book forever and ever.
Yet another text in my selfhelpocalypse last year.This one is the updated edition of the foundational text that set up the abstract psychiatric object ‘borderline personality disorder.'I’ll just say upfront that I’m not sure if such an object exists (i.e., outside of abstract theory), and certainly I don’t much care for pop psych books such as this when distributed to laypersons (such as myself) who lack the education and experience to discern what behaviors and ideas by real persons might be sufficiently clinically significant to fall into the clinical factors described in the text that DSM V contends are diagnostic requisites.
J. Kreisman.This book is highly recommended for sufferers of BPD and for those who care about them.Now that I've read it, I can see why.
The book goes into great detail about how our past experiences can have an enormous effect on our developing mind and social interactions.The majority of BPD individuals have suffered trauma or abuse of some kind as children and I am no exception here.
There is a lot of stigma surrounding a diagnosis of BPD and I urge anyone that doesn't fully understand the mental illness to give this a read and to try not to judge us too harshly.
Some argue that the description of BPD in this book was in many ways inaccurate or maybe even judgmental since it has been written some time ago, and well times change.
Could be, however, I’m no expert so I can’t really agree nor disagree.
Nevertheless, reading it has been somehow interesting to me, but at times also a bit too boring as well, for it’s a bit long and repetitive.
I disliked the fact that, as usual, research in such books is based solely on the American society, which is a lot different than that of the middle east.
Therefore, most examples mentioned were hard to relate to.
As someone who has struggled to find a model that adequately captures the full range of my experiences and the objective circumstances of my life and been left hanging by diagnoses like ADHD, or 'potential' bipolar disorder, or depression, or anxiety, this book spoke directly and unequivocally about my life and made it make sense to me.
It can manifest itself as other more well-known disorders (anxiety, depression, ADHD, narcissism, etc) at varying stages throughout the life of someone suffering from it.
What a great book for describing Borderline Personality Disorder. It's a disorder not commonly spoken about, so this book is a great starting point. More than for the patient, I think this book is perfect for family, friends and coworkers to understand the person with BPD in their life. The books gives both facts and stories which helps the reader identify there traits in their loved ones or acquaintances. Its a fast simple read packed with simple knowledge. Well Done.
One of the most educational books that adresses bpd I read.
