https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11692391
'Gaban' (embezzlement) was my second book by Premchand, it was perhaps, my second Hindi novel.This may come as a surprise to my Western peers but such is the sorry state of affairs of Hindi literature in the most predominantly Hindi speaking region of the world.
Broadly speaking, it is a story about a man who, blinded in his love for his wife, tries to leave no stone unturned to satisfy her lust for jewels.
परेमचंद जी के लेखन की सबसे बड़ी विशेषता है कि यह वासतविकता के बेहद समीप है, और यह पुसतक भी इसका अपवाद

I have read very few by Munshi Premchand but whatever i could was worth it. "Gaban" was one of the first to introduce me to Premchand's world. thereafter I always look for an opportunity to read and latest I stumble on columbia university arts students's love and study of Hindi literature where obviously they had eye on premchand aka "the shakespeare of hindi literature".Gaban means stealing. person loves his wife and tries to hide his gaban of money. It is interesting to see how premchand's style of storytelling differs from book to book.
I have read the short version of Gaban. Story is of old times.
This is why he is been seek as the Father of Literature and surpasses many more of his fellow writers.To discuss the story has never been my style while reviewing but I must feel like doing it this time in brief at-least.The Complete story is based on the Character of Ramanath even though when every other character seems equally important and powerful to cast the story in its perfect form.
Amazing depiction of emotions and great use of hindi words at all the places. He has shown a very true picture of Indian traditional society of 70s and before. Inspired me to read more of hindi sahitya. Storyline is good , but not to relate with current situations, as it was written many years back.
While the wife(like most Indian women) is very much obsessed with owning more and more gold ornaments, the husband struggles to meet the household needs but never reveals the true financial situation to his wife.
In order to show off his opulence, he buys gold ornaments on credit which becomes the starting point to force him to manipulate many other things .Sharing some interesting one liners from this book: "Bhekh aur bheekh mein sanatan se mitrata hai.""Vijay bahirmukhi hoti hai, parajay antarmukhi.""Bahudha humare jeevan par unhi ke haathon kathortam aaghaat hota hai, jo humare sachche hitaishi hote hain.""Karz lene waale bala ke himmati hote hain.""Lajja ne sadaiv veeron ko parast kiya hai.
He tries to get back the money from the lady, but fear and his ego do not let him ask for the money.The next day morning her writes a letter to his wife explaining the situation and runs off and boards a train to Calcutta without any ticket.In the train he meets an old man who pays for his ticket and also takes him to his home in Calcutta and gives him shelter.
He does not venture out during the day for the fear that the police would see and take him away for embezzlement.In the meantime the wife reads the letter and she sells off the jewels to pay off the debts and the monies to the octroi office.
This is my second book by Munshi Premchand and I can't help but gasp at the sheer simplicity of words used to weave such complex characters and emotions. You don't find any negative characters - only characters trapped in negative circumstances. His subtle attacks on the social stigmas of that era (untouchability, widowhood, casteism etc) are beautifully written. It's a very satisfying read.
Beautifully written story about love and greed with subtle attacks on the social stigmas (like casteism, untouchability) of that era.
Premchand's novel Gaban ("Embezzlement"), focusing on the middle class' greed is summarized as below:The novel revolves around Ramaa, a young man of malleable moral values and his intrepid wife Jaalpa who seems outwardly flaky and greedy for gold ornaments but hides a much stronger core.
Jaalpa is young and restless and believes all the tall stories her handsome husband tells.Rama soon finds himself committing embezzlement(Gaban) to buy her ornaments which leads to a huge misunderstanding thanks to his cowardice.
Gaban tells its story with impeccable empathy for all its characters.The novel is a broad exploration of middle class hypocrisy and cowardice especially among men.
Rama lead character is married to Jalpa.
Rama who is just new into the job tries to tamper with the accounts and money.
During the course of events Rama tampers with the accounts and with nothing in his hands, he flees from the place to calcutta.
Jalpa enters calcutta just in right time to save Rama from committing such a crime.
With lot of efforts Rama is saved and is freed from all the crimes starting from account tampering.
Towards end of story everyone starts living together.
Story doesn't have a happy ending like our lives.
The story is from a different era but it will be stuck in my mind forever. The beauty about the author is that he is an unbiased observer of the flaws of our society and he is allowing us to feel but be no judge of his characters. A quality rarely found.It's a great book, if anyone wants to have a bite of Hindi literature, go for it. One word of caution: it has negligible or dark humor, so it is not an easy read.
The story of a weak Man and a strong womanA comment on the life of 1950s, the bureaucratic sluggishness, the administrative corruption, police inhumanity and the strength of the ideals of a middle class illiterate woman
I have read this book in train journey. An excellent book which depict a message to society.
Beautiful description of different stages of life, a man passes through.. How trust and being true are bonded to enhance the importance of a healthy relation..
One of the greatest hindi authors writing about plight of the indian society
my favorite novel by premchand ji......
कहानी का नायक, रमानाथ, मसत-मौला, जिममेदारियों से कोसों दूर, आरामपसंद वयकति है | वहीं कहानी की नायिका
कहानी का नायक, रमानाथ, मस्त-मौला, जिम्मेदारियों से कोसों दूर, आरामपसंद व्यक्ति है | वहीं कहानी की ना
गोदान में जहाँ गरामीण कृषक जीवन के विभिनन रंगों को देखने का मौका मिलता है वहीं गबन आपको भारतीय मधयम 
गोदान में जहाँ ग्रामीण कृषक जीवन के विभिन्न रंगों को देखने का मौका मिलता है वहीं गबन आपको भारतीय मध्
परेमचंद का हिंदी साहितय में जो दरजा है यह पुसतक उसके ही अनुरूप है.
गबन कीशुरुआत होती है एक अनादी लड़के की कहानी से जिसके घर वालों को एक धनवान घर से उसके लिए लड़की का रिशता आता है और सब रिशते के लिए राज़ी हो जाते हैं.
नाजों से पली लड़की एक ऐसे घर में बयाह कर आती है जहाँ उसके सपनों जैसा कुछ भी नहीं .
उस लड़की के दिल में बचपन से ही जिस एक वासतु की कामना सदा रही वो थे गहने.
प्रेमचंद का हिंदी साहित्य में जो दर्जा है यह पुस्तक उसके ही अनुरूप है.
गबन कीशुरुआत होती है एक अनादी लड़के की कहानी से जिसके घर वालों को एक धनवान घर से उसके लिए लड़की का रिश्ता आता है और सब रिश्ते के लिए राज़ी हो जाते हैं.
नाजों से पली लड़की एक ऐसे घर में ब्याह कर आती है जहाँ उसके सपनों जैसा कुछ भी नहीं .
उस लड़की के दिल में बचपन से ही जिस एक वास्तु की कामना सदा रही वो थे गहने.
Quite interesting and poignant at the same time. Munshi Premchand will attempt to tantalize your emotional and humorous senses while maintaining a suspense. He touches various themes - lies and deceit, corruption and women's rights and education. The ending seemed overly dramatic though, could've been ended after the court case.
gaban ak aisa dar jo insan ki zindagi kaise change kar deta h vo kaise suru hokar kab jaal se insan ki parak karva deta aise kya majburi ki gaban kar ke zindagi ko pahchan liya kuch aisa hi h premchand ji ki is noval me"gaban"👌👌👌
Hello everybody! This was a best hindi book i was reading in my tough days. I love this book. The characters of this books are awesome and each and every words are writen perfectly.
Another masterpiece by Premchand. The greatest thing about his stories is the simplicity and close to reality feeling. You feel as if things are happening all around you. Characters have flaws like we all have.
Surprised to know, after reading Gaban at some point I was feeling like the lead character...just wanted to sit somewhere in the garden or near the lake or river and read the whole book once and for all...The force of book over you to open the book and read; keeps on going high after each page.
A good candid picture of India... during british eraNot so modern Hindi. But good description... Feels not much has changed in India since then. Though Its a work of fiction but not far from reality.
A must read novel....
beautiful, thought provoking, honest
ShaandarAdbhut katha Kahani hamko us yug ka anubhav karati he jab britishers ka bharat me shashan hua karta tha !
