https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12483882-schoolgirl
Mornings are torture. Glasses are like ghost Words don’t come easy out of your mind and those exact ones which may express what we actually feel are even harder to come by; to have congruity between our thoughts and our words is a rare skill. However, one may not able to put forth the exact words but one may use simple, harmless, docile words to create an atmosphere of enigma to express one’s feelings. It may sound quite simple but had it been so then we might not have been reading Dazai. Schoo
Schoolgirl depicts the story of a young girl who seems to be in conflict with not only her class but also with her emotions, which are so often juxtaposed with how she is supposed to behave.The novella is uninterrupted stream-of-consciousness monologue by a bourgeois high school student who has lost her father and lives alone with her mother.
The absurdity of teenage is peculiar to twentieth century’s literature- we have other examples such as A Clockwork Orange and The Catcher in the Rye which deals with the problem of adolescence but Schoolgirl has perhaps a different treatment to teenage in way that the narrator wants to live life on her own- as non-conformist- but her angst remains inside her unlike the narrator of other books mentioned here.
If it was the latest issue of Teens Today magazine time stamped Japanese school girls of the 1930s and your thirties are the new teens of 2012 or the ageless with the headline this is going to be the rest of your life.
I know I've said this before and I'll probably say it again: those mental trains never stop to give a girl a moment's peace!
You're happy and then you get in the way with your "This is wrong" and you see how everyone else is doing it and you feel like you could never do it "right"?
A short and tense day in the life of unrelenting bleakness.
I yearned for everything long gone.She’s just a kid.
She’s a hypocrite.
She’s bleeding.
She’s drowning.
The world revolts her, but the world is beautiful, but the world is sad, but the world is glittering and peaceful.
There’s definitely something wrong with me.
This man never knew a day’s peace.
His narrative begs the questions - What is wrong with me?
There are no happy endings, no pots of gold, no punchlines, no cures.
Tomorrow will probably be another day like today.
Happiness will never come my way.
The craft of his writing with the mixture of his character equals a major influence on me, and I suspect on contemporary Japanese literature as well.
For instance, Mishima's major influence was Dazai.
Dazai is one unique writer, and a day doesn't go by where I don't think about him.
It reads like a narrative poem, with some quiet beautiful moments, but with a 'punk' attitude.
One of the great writers of the 20th Century, and "Schoolgirl" is small in size, but huge as a classic piece of literature.
Es una belleza este libro. Cada cuento es una joya, impredecibles y cercanos a la vez. Todas las protagonistas, o narradoras, son mujeres, pero no existe ninguna obviedad, todo lo contrario, cada personaje, y cada historia tienen una delicadeza muy especial, el autor parece tener alma femenina, y todas son grandes personajes. Muy recomendado, no conocía a Dazai, a quien seguiré leyendo encantada.
I might not be much of a YA person, but Teenage angst and uncertainty, count me in. I'm all about that. This might be a Japanese book published in 1939, written from female POV, but it's easily relatable; and contemporary if you don't look at the date.
(3.5) "I go about saying how pained and tormented, how lonely and sad I feel, but what do I really mean by that? If I were to speak the truth, I would die." Dazai's pain is on these pages. His mental anguish and hatred of social mores are shown through this discourse of depression and sadness in the eyes of an adolescent; his state of mind constantly on display. "Sometimes happiness arrives one night too late." All throughout his life, happiness either arrived too late or never came at all.This
(3.5)
  "I go about saying how pained and tormented, how lonely and sad I feel, but what do I really mean by that? If I were to speak the truth, I would die."
Dazai's pain is on these pages. His mental anguish and hatred of social mores are shown through this discourse of depression and sadness in the eyes of an adolescent; his state of mind constantly on display.
  "Sometimes happiness arrives one night too late."
All throughout his life, happiness either arrived too late or never came at all.This is Dazai, stripped down, devoid of cloth or wall.
Ialso like to take my glasses off and look at people.
And it'scurious how it becomes impossible to try to communicate with your eyes.Glasses are like a ghost.The reason I hate glasses so much is because I think the beauty of youreyes is the best thing about people.
But there is an edge to her idle thoughts.You can clearly sense the teenage anguish that Dazai through the narrator puts up in between the lines sometimes clearly expressing, sometimes suppressing...it's like she's torn between choosing herself or the responsibilities she owes to her loved ones and the world around her.It gets gloomy at places but it goes along with the narrative.So, it's a suggestive read!PS: Thanks Supreeth for suggesting me to read this book and also the Friedrick Backman ones :)
Cảm giác khi đọc là rất khó chịu, ghê ghê, thậm chí hôm bữa tôi còn nói với bạn là "như vừa chạm tay vào một thứ nhớt nhớt" T.T Tâm tình của cô nữ sinh kia là một khối sền sệt, đặc quánh, nhiều tạp chất, hỗn loạn, bất thường, có thể tràn ra mọi hướng nhưng cũng bị biến dạng dưới sức ép của môi trường, tâm tình của cô ta vừa nhòe nhoẹt vừa rõ ràng, cô ta vừa căm ghét bản thân vừa ái kỷ @@ Tôi không nói là tôi không ưa cô ta hay kiểu người như cô ta mà tôi nghĩ cô ta...
Dù nhiều người có thể cho đấy là "ngu" hay "cam chịu" nhưng tôi lại muốn so sánh tình cảm này với tình yêu của người vợ trong bộ phim Danish girl, tội lắm.
"From the field across the yard, a child's voice called out tearfully, Sis!
The voice wasn't calling for me but I envied the sister whom the child was crying out for.
If I were her, with such a beloved and cossetted little brother, then I wouldn't live my life so shamefully day after day."This reminded me of one of my favourite Dazai stories.
If I had a little brother or a little sister who loved me that much and called to me with tears, my life would not have to be this lonely..."Anyway, "Schoolgirl" reminded me of how much I adored that other little story.
Nói về những góc khuất, tiêu cực trong đời sống nội tâm của con người bằng một giọng văn nhẹ nhàng, cách thể hiện hóm hỉnh. Văn có giọng điệu. Nhiều câu văn rất đẹp. Nói về đời sống nội tâm, những giằng xé bên trong nhưng không bỏ qua vấn đề thời cuộc. Miêu tả nhân vật qua giọng kể của ngôi thứ nhất, thứ hai hay thứ ba đều hay cả.
This is a strikingly modern day inside the thoughts of a slightly depressed teenage girl.
I even didn't mind the sound of drilling from next door quite so much.Most readers probably won't have quite such a voyage with this little story, but if you like intense inner first-person narratives it's a very interesting piece.(Incidentally, one of the books the narrator reads is Belle de Jour.
Several times a week over the past couple of months on Goodreads I've been running into posts about books which I'd thought were only ever films, despite having watched some of them or read numerous reviews about them.
Và như việc quá buồn khi nhận ra con người ta đôi khi vì sợ hãi hay “khổ đau rất cá nhân” hay giả vờ đạo đức khi cảm thấy bản thân làm chuyện tội lỗi mà không dám công khai cái sự giả dối “có thể chấp nhận được” của mình, để rồi quy tất cả cho một tác động vô hình, một thứ quyền lực vô hình nào đó không có thật (hoặc chỉ là thật ở mức độ tưởng tượng), thì thật đáng khinh làm sao.Nó mới đẹp làm sao.
chỉ đôi ba cái hành động thường ngày, đôi ba cái suy nghĩ nội tâm tưởng đâu tầm phào, thế mà lại hay.được nhuộm trong một màu tro u ám bởi thời cuộc lúc ấy (chủ yếu là do chiến tranh và vai trò đã bị đóng đinh của phụ nữ Nhật) thế nhưng không khí không hề bị nặng nề.
nhưng ông ta có viết thêm nữa cũng chả sao mà, như truyện "Nữ sinh" ấy, mình đọc thêm cũng sẽ không thấy chán (nhưng người khác thì có thể...mình không biết).sẽ đọc thêm mấy quyển khác vì mình thích cách hành văn này và thể loại này cực kì cực kì!
4.5 - Very relatable.
This entire day spent in her head is an exercise of introspection where she thinks about herself and how she can improve her actions to be the person she aspires to be.A sort of duality comes out when we realise that the girl is conscious of her own flaws and of being quite unremarkable, but at the same time craving for more and for something extra-ordinary to take place.
"I want to live beautifully" is her aspiration but she knows that "genuine beauty is always meaningless, without virtue".The girl also wants to be taken seriously and as an adult.
Happiness will never come my way.
You wait and wait for happiness, and when finally you can't bear it any longer, you rush out of the house, only to hear later that a marvelous happiness arrived the following day at the home you had abandoned, and now it was too late.
Sometimes happiness arrives one night too late.
Sometimes happiness arrives one night too late.
Happiness...
You pick a new author, you get excited and decide to read as many books from him as you can.
The more you read, the more relatable it gets especially if you consider yourself a soul that's attracted to sadness.
Almost more a short story than even a novella, but still a dense and powerful work. I have been inspired to read more of his novels and most definitely understand why he is such a cult favorite in Japan.
At first you think that it's a simple text. A monologue of a teenage girl about her day. But than you get lost in the timeless narrative about a personality earning to live a happy life without stressful, dull, and monotonous days. And you envy her for her passion.
En mi primer acercamiento a la obra de Osamu Dazai he descubierto a un hombre capaz de adentrarse en el cerebro femenino con extrema gracilidad e inteligencia, ofreciéndonos su particular visión del período japonés de posguerra a través de catorce mujeres que nos explican sus pequeños dramas cotidianos, sus inquietudes, sus pasiones, sus certezas y sus incertidumbres diarias.
Sorprendente y revelador, Colegiala ha terminado siendo un auténtico regocijo como lector, una pequeña pero intensa introducción a la obra de Osamu Dazai que ningún aficionado a la literatura japonesa debería pasar por alto.
Lần đầu đọc Dazai, thấy hết sức mới mẻ :))
Dazai has created a true work of art within Schoolgirl, and I may be biased because I love Dazai’s aesthetic so much, but this was truly stunning.Did I have any qualms with it?I had a qualm when I first began to read it, and that was the very short sentences that read more like a poem than they did a story.
Would I recommend it and who to?I would definitely recommend this novella to everyone and anyone who enjoys Japanese literature, and stories that are likely to become classics in later years.
Or maybe it’s not the slightest bit contemporary and I’ve no idea what life is like for schoolgirls in Japan these days.
I certainly have no idea what it’s like to be a girl but I do remember what life was like as an angst-ridden teenager and I think Dazai’s pretty much nailed that.
Of course in only a hundred pages there’s a lot we’re not going to learn about her life or her thoughts about her life.
..."I want to love everyone," I thought, almost tearfully.
I had never seen anything as beautiful as the translucent leaves and grass.
I want to live beautifully......Tomorrow will probably be another day like today.
You wait and wait for happiness, and when finally you can't bear it any longer, you rush out of the house, only to hear later that a marvelous happiness arrived the following day at the home you had abandoned, and now it was too late.
Sometimes happiness arrives one night too late.
Sometimes happiness arrives one night too late.
Happiness...Btw, a little peek at Plastic Girl:Can you see the resemblance?
I liked this, and it definitely makes me want to read more of Osamu Dazai's work.
I like the narrative framework of the novella, focusing on one day in the life of a schoolgirl living in Tokyo in 1939.
There's a lot going on here, from the obvious impacts of fascism and war that influence the daily life of this girl, to the relatable yet detestable negativity and self-loathing that she experiences.
I see where Dazai is coming from and I understand why so many people love it, but there was something missing here and I just didn't love it like so many others did.
Definitely could benefit from a re-read.
Truyện của Osamu tuy u uất mà cợt nhả, buồn bã nhưng hài hước. Và trong đó người ta thấy nỗi hoang mang của ông, thấy cả những phản kháng, cam chịu và đôi lúc tự huỷ hoại của ông.
Truyện của Dazai Osamu thì hay, mà ông Hoàng Long dịch văn phong đọc phát chán.
Những truyện ngắn trong cuốn Nữ sinh phiên bản Việt Nam (nói thế là bởi Nữ sinh bản của Phương Nam book mà tôi cầm trên tay không dịch nguyên lại Nữ sinh bản gốc mà chỉ lọc lấy vài truyện rồi thêm mấy truyện lạc quẻ khác vào, tôi cũng chả hiểu vì sao 😑), bên cạnh việc miêu tả tâm lí nhân vật quá đỗi khéo léo tài tình, thì còn mang cái vẻ mỉa mai rất nhẹ nhàng hài hước mà nếu không đủ tinh tế thì chỉ có thể nhận ra khi đọc tới những dòng cuối cùng - giống như việc phải bịt mắt để mò mẫm một bức tranh biếm họa chạm nổi vậy.
It was so interesting to get tangled in the young girl's thoughts.
Although, her insecurities, woes, grief, and everyday anxieties aren’t unique by any sense of the word, the mode in which she tells of them are quite interesting.She spoke about how she’d put on facades in order to appease others, but in all actuality she felt she was the entire opposite of what people were allowed to think of her.
Overall, the reader is allowed in this young girls head space who is also trying to come to grips with her changing into a young lady and are swimming in her multitudinous thoughts and emotions that are extending through her mind.
I truly enjoyed this book.
A personal perspective of a school girl. Her endless musings are relatable. She talks all throughout the book. One topic to another flows normally like a liquid changing its form. When a part seems to become inconsequential, she reels me back in to a more meaningful point. It's my first time to read an Osamu Dazai's work and definitely not the last.
