https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1297123.The_Black_Obelisk
I finally read Westen a few weeks ago, and it was admirable enough to send me to more of his books: the harrowing Nazi refugee novel Die Nacht von Lissabon (1962), in which is ensconced a most poignant and unusual love story and is at least as good as Anna Seghers' excellent Transit in evoking the desperation and dread of ordinary people chewed up by the interminable machinations of indifferent bureaucracies and spat back out to the impatient murderers on their tail; and now Der schwarze Obelisk (1956, available in English translation under the title The Black Obelisk).(+)I have a certain intellectual grasp of the incredible German hyperinflation that peaked in 1923, but understanding the numbers and the economics is not the same as grasping what it was like for the unfortunate humans caught in that misery.
The third book of Remarque I have read so far. After this one, I can loudly say, no, not just say, I can scream and shout, not can but will - Erich Maria Remarque is trully my fav. writer. Even now I'm astonished with his words, words which break through my tiny ironic skull and lied down everywhere. And that's something. What makes this more perfect? Words where read at the end while listening to the great sounds of Bach's air.
Only when reading Remarque one gets an irresistible urge to google "How to stop being afraid of death?"This book tells a story about a young guy who survived WW1.
He spent his youth at war and thus did not get to ask himself all the questions young people ask themselves.There are two sides to this story.
The first one tells about Ludwig's everyday life, describes the people he meets in the most hilarious ways, but the point is that this side of the story is aimed at making the reader feel how pointless those daily routines are, how insignificant it all is compared to the second side of the story.
Bet visa tai buvo senokai ir pamažu detalės išdilo iš atminties, nebeprisiminiau, kodėl tiksliai ji man patiko, liko tik mažos detalės apie obeliską, tarpukarį, infliaciją ir užpakaliu iš sienos ištraukiamą vinį.
Turbūt tai ir yra unikaliausia – supinti šitiek daug temų, kontekstų ir epizodų, pajungti juos visus bendram tikslui ir neperspausti Šis romanas sodrus, atrodytų, tiek perkrautas, kad tuoj tuoj kas nors iškris pro kraštą, bet viskas ten iki pat paskutinės detalės dera ir prisideda prie idėjos.
Galbūt prieš keletą metų ir būtų buvę galima manyt kitaip, bet šiandien aišku kaip niekada, kad pasaulis ir vėl kartoja tas pačias Juodajame obeliske atskleidžiamas klaidas.
গলপের শুরু হয় ১৯২৩ সালে, জারমানিতে। ওয়ারডেনবরাক নামের একটি ছোটট শহরে। সে সময় মুদরাসফীতির দারুণ অভিশাপে দিশেহারা হয়ে পড়েছে জারমানির জনগণ। এক ডলারের দাম হয়েছে ছতরিশ হাজার মারক, আর সে দাম বেড়েই চলেছে পরতযেক ঘনটায়! গলপের পরধান চরিতর লাডউইগ বডমার নামের এক তরুণ, সে পরথম বিশবযুদধে লড়াই করেছে, বয়স তার বিশের কোঠায়। লাডউইগ কাজ করে এক কবরফলক তৈরির দোকানে, দোকানের মালিক তার অভিননহৃদয় বনধু জরজ। এনিয়ে সে হীনমনযতায়ও ভোগে, সে মনে করে মানুষের মৃতযুর সুযোগ নেয় তারা। লাডুইগ বযবসায়ী হলেও তার মনটা নরম, গোপনে সে কবিত

The best description of this book is the one that the author himself gave: The story of a belated youth. For me, it is a novel about youth understood in the most poetic sense of the word and told in the most unpretentious manner possible. It's a sincere story.
Okuyalı dört yıl oldu yaklaşık, duygu dünyamı fazlasıyla etkilemişti. Bitirdiğimde hissettiğim şeyi hala hatırlıyorum. Ve genelde bu konuda unutkan olmama rağmen kitaptan birçok sahne hala aklımda, bire bir şahit olmuşum gibi gözümde canlanıyor. Nasıl olduysa atlamışım bu kitabı eklemeyi ve bugün görünce uzun süredir görmediğim ve değer verdiğim birini görmüş gibi oldum.
Remarque is most often known for All Quiet on the Western Front, and only that. It is excellent, of course, but it's also a bit of a shame, because the rest of his stuff is still pretty good. Case in point: The Black Obelisk, a kind of sequel taking place in Germany after WWI, as the population fights merely to survive and go about their business. Everything is unsettled. A thoughtful novel, but also one that flows well.
The Black Obelisk: http://readwithstyle.wordpress.com/20...I continue with the absolutely amazing Erich Maria Remarque and of course with the topic of war.
Set in a small German town, the novel portrays a period of hyperinflation, disillusionment, post-war suffering, and rising of nationalism through the eyes of Ludwig, a naive post-war veteran trying to find his place in a greedy and insensitive world.
Remarque attempts to give us an answer in The Black Obelisk, where the insane, the disillusioned, the opportunistic, the impostors, the nationalists, the crippled, and the naive shape the richness of characters and moods in 1920s Germany.Read more: http://readwithstyle.wordpress.com/20...
Млад търговец на надгробни плочи, ветеран от Първата световна война, поет, пианист, Лудвиг открива своята сродна душа в лицето на душевноболната Изабел.
В нейните възгледи за света, религията, любовта и смъртта сякаш има много повече мъдрост и истина, отколкото в тези на всички останали...
Невъзможното, неосъществимо докосване на две души се развива пред историческия декор на Ваймарската република – хиперинфлацията, зараждането на нацизма, жаждата за реванш.
Всъщност „Черният обелиск“ е носталгичен роман за градчето Верденбрюк между двете световни войни.
С особено чувство за ирония, Ремарк създава колоритна социална панорама на епохата, предшестваща Третия райх.
Препоръчвам на всички почитатели на Ремарк.
Masterpiece! This book really impressed me with its original ideas about life and death, "crazy" and "normal" people, atheism and faith and with its ironic views about everything.
লাডউইগ বডমার,২৫ বছরের যুবক।পরথম বিশবযুদধের একজন সৈনিক।বেঁচে থাকার জনয কৃতজঞ ঘটনাচকরের পরতি।যুদধ থেকে ফেরার পর চাল-চুলোহীন লাডউইগকে আশরয় দিতে এগিয়ে আসে একই ফরনটে যুদধ করা আরেক জন যোদধা জরজ;বয়সের পারথকয সততবেও দুজন ছিল পরাণের বনধু।বেঁচে থাকার তাগিদে কবি সবভাবের লাডউইগ উনমাদ আশরমের গীরজায় অরগান বাদক হিসেবে কাজ করে;পারিশরমিক নয় বরং সপতাহে একদিন একবেলা পেটপূজাই ছিল উদদেশয।সেখানেই পরিচয় ইসাবেল বা জেনির সাথে।ইসাবেল,অভিজাত পরিবারের এক শিকষিতা সুনদরী তরুণী ;সিজোফরেনিয়ার রোগী।ডাকতার ওয়ারনিকের অনুরোধে তার
লাডউইগ বডমার,২৫ বছরের যুবক।প্রথম বিশ্বযুদ্ধের একজন সৈনিক।বেঁচে থাকার জন্য কৃতজ্ঞ ঘটনাচক্রের প্রতি।যু
This is historical-fiction that puts a small German town (60,000) under a microscope for the last 9 months of 1923.
It meant German workers were paid twice a day with a break in the morning so they could rush out with suitcases or wheelbarrows full of cash and try to buy a loaf of bread or another necessity.Many of the characters are involved in funeral monuments, casket making, and grave digging.
Other characters include an exhibitionist, a priest, and a psychiatrist.
Ludwig is the main character.
A Nazi horse butcher is married to the exhibitionist.
Brilliantly paced dialogue and dark humor meet to drown the reader in a German city of the 1920s, where inflation was pushing people to suicide and the extreme political right was gaining momentum. Ludwig works at a funeral home at a time where, day after day the Deutschmark loses more and more of its worth, in exponential steps. The economical strain on the country is well represented, as is the social environment of a small town dealing with its small people. Very, very enjoyable and worth it as a read.
দুই বিশবযুদধের মঝখানের কাহিনী নিয়ে এই গলপ। গলপটা মুদরাসফীতির কবল থেকে নিজেকে বাঁচানোর জনয সংগরাম করার, গলপটা বনধুতবের, গলপটা ভালোবাসার। মারিয়া রেমারক এর অনয বই এর মত এখানেও রয়েছে পরচুর জীবন দরশন।
দুই বিশ্বযুদ্ধের মঝখানের কাহিনী নিয়ে এই গল্প। গল্পটা মুদ্রাস্ফীতির কবল থেকে নিজেকে বাঁচানোর জন্য সংগ্রাম করার, গল্পটা বন্ধুত্বের, গল্পটা ভালোবাসার। মারিয়া রেমার্ক এর অন্য বই এর মত এখানেও রয়েছে প্রচুর জীবন দর্শন।
আমার খুবই পরিয় একটা বই । বার বার চোখে পানি চলে এসেছে পড়তে পড়তে/।।
আমার খুবই প্রিয় একটা বই । বার বার চোখে পানি চলে এসেছে পড়তে পড়তে/।।
Šis kaut kā galīgi nebija manā gaumē. Bija daži labi domu graudi, bet visādi citādi garlaicīgi. Knapi izvilku līdz beigām.
Perhaps this was the way life was in the upheaval and disorganization in Germany between the wars and that was the authors point!
I felt that he needed to get to a stronger conclusion by the end or that he could have split the book up into several smaller books with each of the separate story lines standing on their own.To me this is a prime example of great writing, and that is the only reason I actually finished the book, but a weak storyline.
I thought 4 at first for the actual writing style and 2 for the storyline so I split the difference and gave it a 3.

This book had very little plot, but it was still hard to put down. The writing is poetic, the philosophy is fantastic, and the characters are unique and delightful. It's set just between the first and second world wars in Germany, and it's beautiful.
Там, един непознат, за мен, човек беше отговорил така: "Не е важно какво разбираш от литературата, а какво разбираш за себе си чрез нея".
В книгите на Ремарк има смърт, смърт, смърт, смърт и накрая завършват и кротко, и гръмко пак със смърт.
Там имаше надежда, защото войната не беше свършила, а тук заедно с войната, тя отдавна беше духнала.
Там имаше пари, но нямаше храна.
Тук имаше храна, но нямаше пари.
Там имаше частица морал, тук всички бяха цинично покварени и някак до болка човешки.
Живеем под едно небе, а в толкова различни светове.Къде е любовта, когато има глад...
Sometimes there is a hole in me that seems to extend to the center of the earth.
What am I alive for?
Yes, for what am I alive?*I want to think and at the same time that's the last thing in the world I want to do.*Everyone saves someone at least once.
Even though he may not know it.*But probably that's the way of the world—when we have finally learned something we're too old to apply it—and so it goes, wave after wave, generation after generation.
No one learns anything at all from anyone else.
It wants to survive.
And survival is only possible through forgetfulness.
Pirmoji E.
M. Remarque knyga, kurią skaičiau, buvo „Trys draugai“, tad, paėmusi į rankas „Juodąjį obeliską“, tikėjausi to paties nepersaldintai liūdno ir gilaus pokario metų (Pirmojo pasaulinio karo) Vokietijos gyventojų būties „niekam ir dėl nieko“ perteikimo, o gavau...
dar daugiau.
„Juodajame obeliske“ šis tragizmas taip puikiai suderintas su ironija bei sarkazmu, kad, skaitydama romaną, tame pačiame puslapyje ir nusikvatodavau, ir pajausdavau sunkaus nevilties gumulo gerklėje būvimą.
Remarque žodžio meistras, tikrai.
Niekaip kitaip nepaaiškinsi to, kad net gražiausiose istorijos akimirkose manęs kaip skaitytojos neapleido neužtikrintumo jomis jausmas, lyg visa, kas gražu, čia pat slystų pro pirštus kaip smėlis.
5 žvaigždutės iš 5!
Black Obelisk is a refreshing book, honest and with very good humor. I expected a much different context. I thought this book would be more about Hitler and I was waiting for it all along, because I would definitely enjoy it in his style of writing. Well... Hitler does make an appearance in two sentences at the end of the book. It's ok, the book is great.
Dark humor combined intertwined with the dark reality of in-between world wars Germany. Incredible read.
I don't understand what was in this book that caused me to the read the book in a single sitting. May be the story, time, mental situation...everything just resonated for a while.
"Der Schwarze Obelisk" ist wahrscheinlich eins der besten Bücher Remarques, einer der Romane zu "génération perdue" Thematik und zugleich ein guter Exkurs in die deutsche Geschichte nach dem Versailler Vertrag.
Es handelt sich um das Leben von Ludwig Bodmer, dem jungen Angestellten einer Grabsteinfirma, wessen Lebenslauf dem von Remarque selbst überraschend gleicht, und um seinen Freundeskreis.
Die Bilder des kleinbürgerlichen Lebens in den wilden Zeiten der Inflation, die unglaublich lebendige Charaktere und die Spottlust, welche Remarque seinen Charakteren nur zu gerne zuteilt, machen den Roman zum Lesegenuss - auch wenn dieser Lesegenuss einen sehr traurigen Nachgeschmack hinterlässt.
I mrekullueshem!
"Laimės niekada nereikia skubinti. Tai dar viena svarbi taisyklė."
<...> Mat jeigu tikėtum pranešimais apie mirtį, tai žmogus jau būtų absoliučiai tobulas.
Vien tiktai idealūs tėvai, pasiaukojančios motinos, visų apraudami seneliai, verslininkai, šalia kurių Pranciškus Asyžietis atrodytų beatodairiškas egoistas, gerumu trykštantys generolai, humaniški advokatai, beveik šventi šaudmenų fabrikantai - trumpai tarian, jeigu tikėtum pranešimais apie mirtį, tai atrodytų, jog žemė buvusi apgyvendinta pulko besparnių angelų, apie kuriuos niekas nė nenutuokė.Švietė mėnulis <...> kitas, vėsus, skaidrus, kurį galima gerti.Įsidėmėk tiktai vieną dalyką: teisus vidada tas, kas guli su moterim lovoje.<…> paprastas gyvenimas be jokių problemų, doras amatas, dora žmona, dori vaikai, dorai ištarnautas tau duotas laikas ir dora mirtis - ir viskas priimama kaip savaime suprantamas dalykas, ir diena, ir poilsis, ir nekyla klausimo, kas glūdi giliau.
