https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1140706.Christopher_and_Columbus
I thought this would be a fun light read, but it turned out to be a good example of a book that has not stood the test of time.
(Amusingly, the bookjacket states that it's set on the eve of WWII - given that the book was published in 1919, naming the wrong war should have been an easy mistake to catch.) I read 131 pages and it had yet to arrive at a plot.
A novel's got to have something at stake; even if it's just "can the protagonist keep the surprise party a secret?", there has to be something going on that makes us want to keep reading.
I took this book on vacation with me to a sunny, warm destination with palm trees, and it turned out to be the perfect read - sweet and fluffy, sort of like cotton candy without the toothache at the end.
A few people have recommended Elizabeth and Her German Garden to me but reading the descriptions of that book did not motivate me.
It's only after reading this book that I can see how something like that could be charming.
I would have liked more character development, a slightly faster plot, and then the trim ending (because it's the only appropriate way to end a fluffy read).
Eh no, soluzione a dir poco inaccettabile per l’insofferente zio: le giovani sono tedesche, praticamente il nemico, e non può in alcun modo tenersele in casa.Nemmeno il tempo di abituarsi al nuovo tetto famigliare, che le due sorelle vengono imbarcate: sì, mandarle in America è l’unica scelta auspicabile, se ne occuperanno altri amici di famiglia.Durante la traversata oceanica Anna Rose (soprannominata Cristoforo) e Anna Felicitas (Colombo) conosceranno il gentile Mr. Twist, un ingegnere che ha fatto fortuna inventando la teiera con beccuccio salvagoccia, “più famosa e usata della Bibbia, nelle case degli americani” come verremo presto edotti dall’autrice stessa.Nello slancio di fare del bene, Mr Twist ha tuttavia mal considerato le conseguenze del familiarizzare troppo con le gemelle: naif, un po’ saccenti, quasi totalmente sprovviste di tatto, le Von Twinkler si ritroveranno, una volta sbarcate, ad affrontare avventure e disastri sotto l’ala protettiva dell’ingegnere che le considera alla stregua di sante reliquie.

It's a story about twin girls, orphans, named Anna-Rose and Anna-Felicitas (what kind of name is that?) who have the misfortune of being half English and half German during World War I.
It's just the story of what they do in response to this.
It took me a long time to decide whether I liked the two girls or not, because in some ways they take initiative and take their future into their own hands, but they are also really annoying because they're so naive and they worry about the most trivial things.
The ending saved it, though.
I liked the ending.
A delightful story that is fun to read, not just to finish. Anna-Rose and Anna-Felicitas are seventeen-year-old twins who find themselves orphaned and without a home or even a country since their father was German and their mother was English. World War I has begun and few people are willing to take in even children with any German connections. They are sent away on a ship to live with an uncle's acquaintances in America but nothing seems to turn out as it should...
Delightful is the word that comes to mind. Great vacation read! I laughed often while reading this. Lots of humorous insights about humankind.
I fell in love with the Twinkler sisters, and enjoyed their adventures as they progressed from Pomerania to Acapulco. Typical of Elizabeth von Arnim, beautiful language, humour, and wit.
(Note: The author seems to think Acapulco, where the twins spend the second half of the book, is in California instead of Mexico).As a modern reader, I knew about anti-German feeling during WWI and WWII and anti-Japanese feeling during WWII, including the unfair internment of Japanese-American citizens in the USA.
But, this book is a product of its times, published in 1919, and in the author’s presentation of the German characters the twins encounter on the boat and in the US, she endorses typical stereotypes.
Apparently, the author was okay with the anti-German prejudice; she just didn’t think their half-German ancestry should be held against her two main characters.
With Christopher and Columbus, Elizabeth Von Arnim has written a light hearted comedy reminiscent of Three Men on the Bummel, but with a hint of Don Quixote’s social commentary.
Anti-German feelings and the twins unmistakable rolling ‘R” s make England an uncomfortable place for the girls and more so for their less than hospitable near relations.
Individual adventures can come close to being very dark, but Ms. Von Arnim never gives us over to the worst of what might have been.Christopher and Columbus is a comedy in the classical definition.
Le due fanciulle sono insopportabilmente naive e saccenti, ma per loro fortuna sulla nave che le trasborda incontrano Mr Twist (Teiera Twist, che ha fatto fortuna inventando una teiera con beccuccio antigocciolio, più famosa e usata della Bibbia nelle case degli americani, come veniamo resi edotti) che si intenerisce di fronte alle due cucciole e le tratta come due gattini abbandonati.
Le cucciole attraversano gli eventi con uno spirito a metà tra Pollyanna e Alice, senza però suscitare metà della loro simpatia, sorrette solo dalla magistrale abilità di Arnim di descrivere personaggi e situazioni con uno sguardo tra l’ironico e il dileggiante.
Chic bookA good G rated love story. Being half German I remember my mom telling stories of what it was like to be German during WWII. Not easy
Christopher and Columbus are two twin sisters, half English half German,(actually both named Anna) who are heading towards America on a steamer at the beginning of WW1.
They meet a nice older man who takes pity on them as they cross the Atlantic, and seems to be stuck with them forever as they plunge headfirst into one misadventure after another.
All sorts of things go wrong but the man is a gentleman and the girls are very sweet optimists so of course they all come out all right.
Free on Kindle.
Author of "The Enchanted April" (which I haven't read, yet).
Charmed.
Absolutely.
Totally frivolous, but wonderfully diverting.
Laughed out loud many times (enough to elicit comments of "what are you reading??" from family members).
Chronicling the adventures of a pair of half-English and beginning of WWI damning half-German orphaned twins literally set adrift by unsympathetic English relatives.
Put on board the "St. Luke" embarking for America with abundance of naivety and 200 pounds.
The words.
The twins use the most delightful words.
I want to speak that way, if only to make myself laugh.
Fortunately most of her works are free on Kindle.
I liked this book.
Parts of it made me laugh out loud with enjoyment...until the last chapter, which kind of drove me crazy!
I think the ending was MOST unsatisfactory.Elizabeth von Arnim wrote Christopher and Columbus during WWI; it was published in 1919.
Orphaned twins of a German father and English mother set off on their own for America.
Anti-German sentiment by England and the United States was quite strong, an understatement - it is examined from several vantages.
He has a dreadful, controlling mother, and an interesting sister, who should've had a bigger part in the story.
I really loved this gentle, humorous, uplifting novel about twins Anna-Rose and Anna-Felicitas leaving England for America during the war. Elizabeth von Arnim writes beautifully and effortlessly. The two girls are artless, naturally outspoken and vulnerable orphans, neither completely German, nor completely English. It sounds corny, but it isn't.
Despite the two Anna's difficulties, I think this book is a really sweet one. It shows how people can be strange and unkind, but it's also a tale of hope and courage. And, it's really well written and delightfully vintage.I will certainly read more books by Mrs von Arnim.
Mrs. Von Arnim, il piacere è stato mio!
Elizabeth von Arnim's novels are among the wittiest and most entertaining novels I've ever read.
3.5-4/5
The story was good, but at times I felt it went on and on and on. The subtle humor was very enjoyable.
This was a charming book. Truly enjoyable and fun. A light read, but pretty thorough observations and wittiness sprinkled throughout.
Orphaned twin girls travel to America on a ship. Everything seems to fall into place for them and there is humor in this story.
I normally adore von Arnim's work, but did not become absorbed in this. I decided to give up on it for now.
My dear friend Elizabeth von Arnim! It is a relief that for once she is writing something with an actual happy ending (I think).More review later (I promise! Have so many things to say), gotta go to work.
