https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/735693.The_Twins_at_St_Clare_s
The Twins at St Clare’s by Enid Blyton. Children’s Fiction. Granada Publishing Limited, Frogmore, St. Albans, Herts. Reprinted 1974. 5 Stars. This is a tattered copy I picked up for 10¢ at Sherman Oaks library more than 20 years ago. But such a fun book, the first in the St Clare’s series, a delightful story about twins Pat and Isabel going to a new school. At first they are not very pleased about it. Read how they adjust and eventually love St Clare’s! I am looking forward to reading the whole series.
Re-reading St Clare's I'm re-reading the St Clare's series (I bought the 1970s boxset as opposed to the new ones because they're just too...modern!). I first read the series when I was in infant and primary school (so about 6-9 years old most likely) and I remember loving them. Re-reading this book, it's interesting how I still remember bits of the storyline and the characters. This is the first book in the series where Pat and Isabel O'Sullivan join St Clare's at 14 years old. I love how every
Re-reading St Clare's
I'm re-reading the St Clare's series (I bought the 1970s boxset as opposed to the new ones because they're just too...modern!).
I first read the series when I was in infant and primary school (so about 6-9 years old most likely) and I remember loving them.
Re-reading this book, it's interesting how I still remember bits of the storyline and the characters.
This is the first book in the series where Pat and Isabel O'Sullivan join St Clare's at 14 years old.
I love how everyone says "ought" and "shan't", and they're just so posh.
I love it!
I asked my niece Alexa, who just read all the St. Clare's and Malory Towers, which series she liked best, and she says:"St Clare's because I like the characters better and they become less snobby faster. Their tricks and midnight feasts are WAY better."
Kemarin ada yg tanya bagus mana seri #malorytowers atau #stclare Kebetulan saya baru selesai #reread dua buku MT dan satu SC, jadi saya kasih #minireview ..Karena keduanya bersetting di sekolah berasrama, jadi beberapa plot, tema dan karakter/wataknya nyaris sama.
Teman-teman mereka di St Clare karakterisasinya lebih smooth, dalam artian tidak ada yg menonjol sekali dan nyaris membaur antara si ini dan si anu.
Tapi ini msh buku pertama, barangkali setelah baca ulang seluruh serinya, pendapat saya bisa berubah...I grew up reading #enidblyton books, jadi meski cerita petualangan dan cara penyelesaian kasus-kasusnya terbilang sederhana, saya tetap saja suka.
I love the twins at St Clare's - the adventures Pat and Isabel get up to are hilarious!
My favourite part of the book was the midnight feast.
It really was a feast aswell: bread, butter, pork pie, cake, sardines (ew), Nestles Milk, chocolate, peppermint creams, tinned pineapple AND ginger beer.
"It beats the rest of the St Clare's feasts thats for sure!" I love this book because Enid Blyton really does show a passion for writing.
The twins at St Clares are mystery and adventurous.
They help to branch out reading and a good use of language is used.
Pat and Isabel settle in really well!
Tapi ternyata St. Clare memberikan mereka "pengalaman" yang tak pernah terlupakan.Kedua anak kembar itu merupakan kepala murid di sekolah lama mereka, sehingga mereka terbiasa dipandang dan dihormati.
Hihihihi, anak 14 tahun tidak bisa membersihkan sepatu dan memasak air ^^Lalu kedua anak itu juga mendapat kesulitan dengan pelajaran bahasa Perancis.
Alhasil, mereka memang bisa mengerjakan karangan itu dan mengumpulkannya pada Mam'zelle pada saat tengah malam!
Di St. Clare, guru sejarah yang sebenarnya sedang sakit dan digantikan oleh temannya, Ibu Kennedy (Si Kenny, panggilan dari anak-anak kelas satu).
Sejak saat itu anak-anak kelas satu menjadi baik perlakuannya kepada Bu Kennedy.Ada juga masalah pencurian.
I had loved Enid Blyton, but had never read one of the St Clare's stories until I was 12 or so.
I read the first book that weekend, and the following two the next two weekends.
Years later, after my asking to borrow them every few months, my friend gave over the treasured books, and now they live on my shelves!
St Clare's will have me coming back for many years to come, I hope.
A great series to introduce someone to Enid's work, and one of the treasured memories from my ownchildhood.
Cerita St. Clare ini mirip2 Malory Towers, baik dari plot maupun karakter.
Sayangnya karakter di St. Clare ga sekuat Malory Towers.
Setelah buku pertama, Pat dan Isabel rasanya seperti tempelan aja, dengan karakternya yg baik2.
Ga ada bedanya dengan Hilary.
Karakter Bobby, Janet, dan Carlotta juga hampir sama.
Tapi kalo dijadiin seperti yang gw mau, ntar jadi kaya kloningan Malory Towers ya ;p Ini aja udah cukup kloningan, hahaha.Tapii...gw tetep enjoy banget kok baca St.Clare ini.
Emang sebenernya ga lemah2 banget sih, cuma jadi kerasa nge-blend aja antara Si Kembar, Janet, Kathleen, Hilary, Bobby, Carlotta, dst...
The Twins at St Clare's (St Clare's, #1), Enid Blytonعنوان: دوقلوها در سنت کلر؛ نویسنده: انید بلایتون؛ مترجم: ایلونا جودمردی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، شهر کتاب، هرمس (کیمیا)، 1386، در 204 ص، اندازه 19 در 12 س.م.، شابک: 9643630544؛ جلد 1 از مجموعه سنت کلر
I loved this series as a kid and consequently crazed my parents to send me to boarding schoolYes the reread proves that actually it probably doesn't hold up compared to fiction published now but I do still love this series because it made me a compulsive reader.
Irish girl twins in a girl dormitory school, enchanting youth
Hanni and Nanni are great series for kids! I loved reading the book when I was younger and I am pretty sure I would enjoy them nowadays too if I would read them again. Maybe I do! ;-)
It does however contain the usual amount of tricks, dormy fun and lacrosse matches one has come to expect with an Enid Blyton series set in a school.
The O’Sullivan twins are Pat and Isabel, one quite indistinguishable from the other with the exception of Pat’s tendency to be more stubborn than her twin.
Unfortunately once they arrive, their reluctance to join in with any of the other girls’ activities and Pat’s refusal to wait on the older girls, such is the custom at St Clares, soon earns them the nickname “The Stuck-Up Twins”.
Only through displays of their sense of fair play and honesty do the twins eventually make friends and settle into their school.
I think that these stories still have a place for children today.
Although the twins Isabel and Pat are 14 in the stories I feel that they are more suited to a much younger audience these days.
The twins have previously been at a boarding school called Redroofs and are determined not to enjoy the new school, St. Clare's.
Each chapter tells a story about one or other girl at the school and her problems and they are all resolved in a satisfactory way with a little moral at the end.
Those were the days.
A charming and innocent series of stories.
When they first arrive at st clare's they decide they are going to be horrible and are labelled as the"stuck up twins"by the other girls in their form but they soon learn to adjust and even miss their boarding school when they go home for Christmas.
It is a typical coming of age story where the girls learn to lose their airs and graces and "grow up".I'd say the age range for this book would be 5-8.I think this book would be best used for independent reading in the classroom and would be more likely to be enjoyed by girls.
I absolutely just love this series.I have read every single book,and the characters are so interesting.Take Carlotta for example - a wild,gypsy-like ex-circus girl.Tomboyish Bobby Ellis and the responsible and dignified head girl Hilary Wentworth.Alison,the feather-head who worships and loses her heart to pretty girls/teachers.The Honorable Angela Favorleigh,who is rich but snobby and spoilt(who Alison adores and worships).Don't forget Pauline,Doris,Susan,the spiteful Eileen Paterson,the American girl Sadie,Felicity Ray,the 'poet' Ann-Marie Longden,Kathleen,Mirabel,Janet,Gladys and of course,Claudine the French girl.The twins,Pat and Isabel O'Sullivan.The author has made the characters so interesting and likeable that I loved reading these series.
I loved these when I was younger! My daughters have been listening to the audio book version at bedtime for ages so I picked up a couple of paperbacks from the library, I thought they'd like to experience reading them. They were delighted and have had to repeat myself constantly as their noses are in books and listening to Mum a low priority! In addition, they've been playing "Boarding Schools" in the garden quite a bit over Easter holidays - I'm waiting to be asked if they can go to one!
These books were such a huge part of my childhood and so very important to my reading habits.
Growing up on the German version 'Hanni & Nanni' I would devour these and reread them uncountable times.
These were the books that made me stay up the whole night so that my dad would turn off the power to my room and I would read by candlelight or with a torchlight.
These were the books that introduced me to midnight snacking, to adventure and the importance of friendship.
I loved a lot of Enid Blyton's books but this series was by far my favourite and one day I'll reread them.
What fab books these are! When I read this the first time as a child myself I longed to go to boarding-school. I missed all the morals intertwined within the chapters which were so blatant as an adult reader... cheating, theft, bullying, etc. All dealt with very simply but hopefully instilling a sense of decency in young readers. The language was very dated and I deliberately substituted more modern equivalents to the "you're such a brick", and "golly gosh", etc! My kids loved it!
Nesta colecção conhecemos Isabel e Patrícia O' Sullivan que vão pela primeira vez para o Colégio de Santa Clara. Inicialmente, as duas irmãs, vão para o colégio contrariadas e detestam o ambiente do colégio.As colegas acham-as peneirentas e acabam por lhes aplicar as habituais partidas, e rapidamente as gémeas são integradas no grupo.Um livro cheio de aventuras... e um piquenique à meia-noite =)
I LOVED this series sooo much because 1)Enid Blyton is my all time favourite author and 2)its sooo interesting and there's so many adventures in just one book that just makes you yearn to read the other books as well. Highly recommended for everybody! Thumbs up :D
I had read this when i was schooling.i enjoy this a lot at that time.this is a really perfect books for school children.there lifestyle is really simple than new a days school children.they didn't act like adult.they had real childhood.
I wish I had read this book when I was 10 years old, I know I would have loved it.
انید ماری بلایتون (زادهٔ ۱۱ اوت ۱۸۹۷ در دولویچ شرقی، لندن – درگذشتهٔ ۲۸ نوامبر ۱۹۶۸ در همپستید، لندن) از نویسندگان محبوب ادبیات کودک و نوجوان اهل انگلستان است که شماری از داستانهایش را با نام مری پولاک نوشتهاست.زندگیانید بلایتون در ۱۱ اوت ۱۸۷۹ به دنیا آمد.انید پس از پایان تحصیلاتش معلم شد اما در اوقات فراغتش داستان مینوشت و شعر میسرود.او از سال ۱۹۵۹ به سبب بیماری فعالیتهای ادبیاش را کم کرد و پس از آن نیز کمکم نوشتن مجموعه داستانهایش را کنار گذاشت. این نویسندهٔ پرکار در سالهای پایانی زندگی، حافظه
انید ماری بلایتون (زادهٔ ۱۱ اوت ۱۸۹۷ در دولویچ شرقی، لندن – درگذشتهٔ ۲۸ نوامبر ۱۹۶۸ در همپستید، لندن) از نویسندگان محبوب ادبیات کودک و نوجوان اهل انگلستان است که شماری از داستان‌هایش را با نام مری پولاک نوشته‌است.زندگیانید بلایتون در ۱۱ اوت ۱۸۷۹ به دنیا آمد.انید پس از پایان تحصیلاتش معلم شد اما در اوقات فراغتش داستان می‌نوشت و شعر می‌سرود.او از سال ۱۹۵۹ به سبب بیماری فعالیت‌های ادبی‌اش را کم کرد و پس از آن نیز کم‌کم نوشتن مجموعه داستان‌هایش را کنار گذاشت.
داستان‌های بلایتون به حدود ۹۰ زبان ترجمه شده و کودکان و نوجوانان جهان بیش از ۶۰۰ میلیون نسخه از آثارش را خوانده‌اند.یکی از ویژگی‌های آثار انید بلایتون این است که قهرمانان کودک و نوجوان داستان‌هایش با کمترین کمک از سوی بزرگسالان به ماجراجویی می‌پردازند و افرادی شایسته و متکی به خود به شمار می‌روند.
The Twins At St.Clares by Enid Blyton. The O'sullivan twins are stuck up and don't want to go to St.Clares. But when they do go they find that the school is quite different than they thought. 4/5* A good read, am looking forward to reading the next one.
Akhirnya browsing lah nama Enid Blyton, dan disitu aku baru tau kalau beliau ini, memang penulis cerita anak2.
Buku ini adalah buku pertama dari seri St.Clare yang ditulis oleh Enid Blyton.
Seperti sinopsis yang tertulis di belakang buku ini, buku ini menceritakan tentang si kembar Irlandia, Pat dan Isabel O’Sullivan yang baru lulus dari Redroof School.
Karena itu, dua gadis ini bertekad tidak akan berusaha dengan baik di sekolah barunya.
Sebenarnya, itu dikarenakan orangtua mereka merasa bahwa Pat dan Isabel berubah menjadi gadis yang congkak setelah bersekolah di Redroof School.
Maklum saja, di Redroof School, kedua gadis itu duduk di kelas yang tertinggi dan menjadi ketua murid.
Tapi sebenarnya pengarang buku anak ini sangat pandai memasukkan nilai budi pekerti untuk ditanam dalam benak tanpa harus terkesan menggurui.Dan jangan pernah lupa, bahwa dunia sekolah yang diceritakan Enid untuk St.Claire ketika itu ada pada masa tahun '40-an atau awal tahun '50-an.
Itu sebabnya peran guru dan Kepala Sekolah di sini lebih banyak sebagai karakter protagonis.Aku hanya kecewa karena ritme ini begitu serupa pada setiap buku, dan terlalu ideal.
I started the re-read with the German version of the first book as I knew that version differed from the original and I wanted to see for myself how and why.
I mean, the twins don't ever fight, at least not in this book which just seems odd to me.I also like that the way Blyton pushes the girls and thus her audience in a certain path.
Anyway, this was a delightful trip down memory and since I bought the whole first year at St. Clare's in one ebook, I will likely read the rest of the books as well.
Maybe that will get me over knowing I did not read the real stories as a kid.

Obviously, as an adult my understanding of it is different now; I found it at times a bit preachy, amongst other things.
I understand the reasons for this particular trait though; not only it was still an established style of fiction at the time, it also gives a moral compass for young girls, and actually quite a good one!
Values of honour, hard work, companionship and compassion are all over it.
So I give, to what was one of my favourite series growing up, five stars, for at the time it even made me wish I was a student at a boarding school!
