https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/481462.The_Howling
(Coincidentally, so did Brandner) Distinguishing itself from the bloated, 500 page behemoths being printed these days, The Howling is a lean, fast moving 200 pager that draws the reader quickly to the action and never lets up, and develops the characters along the way while building a succinct occult thriller.Stephen King in his 1981 non-fiction discourse on the horror genre Danse Macabre, estimated that the werewolf, as literature, evolved from the 1886 publication The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde by Robert Louis Stevenson, but was, of course, historical legend in origin.
Brandner begins his novel with a 400-year-old prologue in a forest village near the Greek and Bulgarian border.

Overall, this book was a fast-paced, gripping story of how the werewolf came into existence (according to Brander).
Roy worries about his sex-life.
There, the couple tries to eek out a life that will help heal the wounds of what happened to Karyn.
The shopkeeper, an exotic woman named Marcia, begins an affair with Roy. You can probably fill in the blanks...yep, Marcia is a werewolf.
Roy is attacked--he becomes a werewolf.
Karyn battles to save her life--she lives, albeit with a very anticlimactic battle scene.
There aren't many surprises here, but you could read a worse werewolf story.
If I had known just how miserable this book would make me, I wouldn't have started it.
Karyn is raped right in the beginning of the book.
You get to read every single moment of it.
Next, instead of helping her, her miserable husband cheats on her because the poor man can't cope with everything.
I don't think I'll be reading the rest (for now), but I do hope Roy gets killed.
Poor thing.Yes, I have pet-peeves.
Yes, they can ruin my reading experience.
Supernatural horror can be great even without detailed rape followed by detailed cheating.
Highly enjoyable short and no-frills story on the werewolf theme. Very 80's flavor (storytelling, but of course pay phones, answering machines and a myriad of other details) and much like watching a not-too-high-budget horror flick from the time.With regards to this, I do know that I've seen the movie adaptation of this, but cannot remember enough (a common and slightly depressing statement in my reviews of late...) to even say if it was a faithful one. Pretty sure they changed the ending though.The book is a recommended easy read though for when that feels suitable!
I thought this book was a quick, fun read.
I had watched the movie quite awhile back and all I could remember was the beginning and that the werewolves were scary.
I was probably about 8 or 9, so when I picked up this book I couldnt really compare it to the movie.I really loved the backstory at the beginning of the book about the town of Dradja.
I thought Brandner did a good job at making the reader feel the tension and horror that Karyn felt throughout the book.
I would recommend this book for anyone who likes werewolves or has seen The Howling movies.
The howling."A Re-Read.It's interesting how the movies were created based on these books - the story-line for this original novel actually made it into the fourth Howling movie and not the first, with the exception of the ending, which fits (to a point) the first movie.
It was a delight to be able to re-read this one and find it in digital form, since my old paperback (much loved) was already used when found and has suffered more damage over the years since.What could come across creepy doesn't necessarily do so except for one scene where Karen looks out and sees a wolf downright goading her on the front lawn at night.
I really enjoy reading Gary Brandner's books.
My last books of his to read for now are The Howling Trilogy and what a way to start.
My first 5 star Brandner book!First published in 1977 this werewolf tale is considered a classic by many and I totally agree.
However, Drago hides a secret which is slowly revealed and is far from a safe sanctuary for Karyn and Roy.The book moves at a great pace as the creepy atmosphere of Drago builds, other characters get involved and the werewolf horror starts.The Howling was adapted for the big screen in 1981 and is a great werewolf movie.
But this isn't a review of the movie.After an intruder breaks into her home and rapes her, Kayrn Beatty and her husband, Roy, decide to move to the rural community of Drago.
Kayrn gets raped in the first chapter, they move to Drago in the second chapter and hear the howling for the first time in the third chapter.The novel has a creepy atmosphere due to the weird townspeople and Kayrn and Roy living in the middle of nowhere.Karyn is one of the strongest, most intelligent characters I've ever encountered.
When things start getting strange, she wants to leave Drago immediately.
Werewolves are one of the creatures I love to read about and watch movies about, so The Howling definitey sated my horror appetite.The story is pretty simple - Karyn and her husband Roy move to a tiny little town to help her get over a traumatic event.
And of course there are some graphic sex scenes, but y'know, if you like that kind of thing go for it.This is the first in a trilogy of books, and I think I may try and find the other two because this was great fun.
The movie is one of my all-time favorites, a very intelligent old horror movie with a great cast and great cinematography.
I had to read the book.
Apparently it's been out of print for a number of years, so I got a copy from Amazon.com, and the day it came, I read the thing from cover to cover.
Perhaps the fact that the book is so simple adds to that, in a way - there's no frills, it's just very "real." (As real as a werewolf story can get, anyway!) I felt increasingly unnerved as I read further an further.
4 StarsThis is like a great B-Movie; I mean it is about werewolves.
The movie was good, too; but was a different story; a different background for Karyn and Roy. After a violent act and survival by Karyn; her and Roy go to a small town with a dark history.
No pets roaming, no children playing, no folk out for a Sunday stroll.
Things are completely "off"; but they decide to stay anyway.
Slowly, but surely; their lives together become more separate as the town takes hold.
By the end, Karyn will do what she has to do; if she wants to survive.
Campy fun from the 80's. The cover is fantastic, and is derived, which probably everyone knows, from the film. The book is a fast read, and delivers on a great pulp level. Werewolf tales are not my favorite, but this is a great one. If you haven't seen the film, it is a classic.
I remember calling CAMERON'S CLOSET--the previous book I read by Gary Brandner--"meat 'n' potatoes horror," meaning that it was good but not very innovative.
Well, THE HOWLING is also good, but even less innovative.
The werewolves in this book can quietly shape-shift in just a few moments, and the descriptions of these transformations are vague.Not so the sex scenes.In closing, try to come up with the most generic werewolf story idea you can.
Your idea might closely resemble THE HOWLING.
I have to say it is MUCH easier for the baddies to get to you when live in the mountains and your only means of communication is a phone at the local mom and pop grocery store in town and you don't even know how to drive.
What young adult person didn't know how to drive in the 70's?
They don't mention the gold chains and the half open silk shirt but if you grew up in the 70's you know that they are there.Consider it a time capsule.
Nasty werewolves from the old country transplanted into the mountains in America.
The howling A well written, quick read story of werewolves. Thank goodness it wasn't as scary as the movie! It scared me so bad when I was too young to be watching it
Hmm, this one was really spooky, its eerie small-town setting and vivid writing make it all-the-more chilling.
The Howling,Gary Brandner's werewolf tale manages to create enough suspense to keep the pages turning, The setting is eerie, the werewolf's have enough bite to be interesting, but the characters are a bit flawed and tend to act outside their stereotype.
Karyn Beaty is a perfect example of an author losing focus of character trends.
REALLY?Although this book is loaded with character flaws (not just Karyn), I found it still worked.
If I had to read 600 pages filled with this type of character development I might have had different feelings about the book, but being what it is, I liked it.
I've seen the movie plenty of times, but this was my first time reading the book. Brandner is awesome. There were so many tense moments in this book I thought gnaw my fingernails off. Each and every character is so real, and their interactions, whether in human or wolf form, are perfect. Blood? Oh yeah. Sex? Holy shit, yeah. Horror? yep. Werewolves done right are among my favorites. Brandner is my king of the wolf. Now I want to watch the movie again!Did you hear that?Hear what?The howling.Sweet!
Those who know me know I'm a Horror fanatic. I do mix up my reading genres but nothing grabs me like a good old horror story. This book was right up my alley. I don't know why I have passed on it all these years. This is classic Werewolf, howl at the moon, slash and claw entertainment...and a whole lot more!
I thought this was an old time werewolf novel that sure beats the crap out of the more modern werewolf tales out there. Its everything I thought a werewolf should be. Very enjoyable and well written.
The amount of pages made me do it.For my werewolf book on this Halloween Bingo adventure, I had a three options sitting on my shelf for consideration:The Howling - Gary Brandner The HowlingThe Wolfen - Whitley Strieber The WolfenThe Nightwalker - Thomas Tessier The NightwalkerFor lack of better option, I choose The Howling simply because it was slightly shorter than the other two.
The prologue opens with a lore about a werewolf village in some European town hundreds of years ago, which basically tells you exactly where the book is going.
Just finished this one last night, read over a period of a week or so. This is a slim book, and a quick read, something I have come to appreciate. Surprisingly little actual werewolf action, but the smooth, easy reading style makes up for it. Ending seemed a little rushed to me, with some loose ends, but that will most likely be sorted out in The Howling 2. Brandner is a good writer, so I will track down more of his stuff. Minimal gore and relatively mild sex, except for a disturbing rape at the beginning.
"The Howling" is a 1977 pulp horror novel which has obtained something of a cult name in main due to it's more successful (and, frankly, superior) 1981 film adaptation (directed by the great Joe Dante).
They discover the small community of Drago which seduces, quite literally, Roy into it's ranks and could well hide a dark supernatural threat: a werewolf!Anyone expecting the quirky, dark satire of the film, with it's jabs at sleazy TV journalism and faddish back-to-nature health spas, will be disappointed; Brandner's novel is a far less sophisticated and eventful tale which adds very little meat onto the summary above.
How did I forget that I read this book back in the late 70s?
When I saw the title in a book that I was reading the other day, it jarred my memory and I thought, damn, that was a really good book!
Now I'll reread it to see if it's as good as I remember.
The Howling did have me in suspense and it was still good, just not as great as I remembered.
It's still a good scary read and I plan to read the rest of the trilogy since I've never read the other two.
This is one badass book, which is surprising since I thought it was going to be dull and lame like the movie.
In fact, the werewolf stuff is actually the least interesting aspect of this book.
I really dug the characters and the ghost story town of Drago, but the actual werewolf stuff almost seems like an afterthought until that dramatic ending.The story starts off with a brutal, infuriating scene, and I like that the concept of sexual tension and repression is an overall theme in this book.
But again, the actual werewolf violence is kind of weak throughout, so that's the only aspect that brings this otherwise awesome book down.
Saw this 1977 sucka on the free shelf at the New Hartford Library and nabbed it, eager to read the little novel that inspired the 1980 movie of the same name, one of the best werewolf movies of all time.
I found the novel quite a bit different, (and much less effective) with a married couple who move to a strange little town (?) for some reason in the California mountains after the woman is raped.
Everyone in "Drago" is pretty odd and why anyone would move specifically there is never explained.
Typically, strange disappearances are common there, and it is stuck in the 1950s.
this is everything a werewolf novella should be, flawed characters with personal demons battling the unknown in a rustic setting.
I loved it from start to finish!
this was my first Gary Brandner book and I loved the writing style, there is something about the way it is written that sets it apart that I just can't put my finger on but I have a feeling that after reading a few of his books he will be one of those authors that you can sometimes identify by the writing style alone.
I can't wait to get into the rest of the series.
The Howling.
I've read this book countless times since I first picked it up in 1986.
Every time I read it just gets better.
I love the films which are great horror movies ( well a few of them anyway!
). But the novel is very suspenseful and has you rooting for Karyn all the way through.
I've read a few of Mr. Brandners other books and none are as good as this.
The original movie is more tongue in cheek, than the novel but it does for Werewolves what 'Salems Lot did for Vampires.
Imagine Your Worst Fear A Reality.......
Came to this book not knowing what to expect. I know there is a movie, well a few but haven't seen any of them. Werewolves, I like alongside most other famous or non famous monsters. I figured it may be a bloodbath ala Dog soldiers but it wasn't. Mind you it was still a decent read, more of a mystery whodunit I felt as it kept me guessing who the werewolf could be, threw little red herrings here and there....or did it seeing as how the conclusion played out haha. Not bad :)
