https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4837112-percy-jackson-and-the-sword-of-hades
Lolz this explains everything about Bob :))) 4.5 stars (a little too short, I wanted more to give it 5 :D)
4 stars❤I really liked this book❤If you want to read this book, I hope you havent read The House of Hades yet xD.. I think reading this book first is better since you get to witness the transformation of Bob :P.. Still, it doesnt really make a difference..I love Nico!!He is definitely my second favourite demigod, after my Leo❤A nice book :D
Cause you can't get enough of Percy, right?And that's till I read the final book of the first series.
After I finished The Son of Neptune, my last obsession has been Percy Jackson.
The writing seemed very basic and kind of rushed/not edited.I still liked it, though.
I love everything that's associated with Percy.
How they try to blend in with the people.In there we could see how they can be randomly summoned by the gods/goddesses to run some errands, or aid them in their own problems.
And now I'm starting to hate the gods/goddesses.
It seems like what all they do is sit around on their thrones, watch the demigods fix their personal troubles, see them die.
This book was published in Britain and is hard to find new in the U.S. I sent for a used copy from England before I had read the The Demigod Files which also contains the short story Percy Jackson and the Sword of Hades.
This edition does contains a humorous report card from Chiron and Dionysus on Percy's summer camp activities that is not included in The Demigod Files, but the report card is one only page long.
Had I read The Demigod Files prior to placing my order, I probably would not have sent for this edition.
But when I signed up for like so many freaking reading challenges for this year I knew I had to find the novellas for the Percy Jackson and the Olympians series.I really enjoyed Percy Jackson and the Sword of Hades because I got more of Percy.
So yes, happiness for finding this book because I love the shit out of Percy and I also missed Thalia and Nico.Plus, Hades and Persephone were cool and I wanted to know more about this missing sword.
I can't wait to read the next novella and see what else Percy has to do for these lazy gods.
I would trade any of my other books just to complete the Percy Jackson & the Olympians and The Heroes of Olympus series.
So when I saw this book, Percy Jackson and the Sword of Hades, I literally screamed and fangirled over it while I'm at a book store.
Given that, it cost me only half of the original price and I didn't even know that Percy Jackson and the Olympians # 4.5 exists.
The story line is interesting even though it's shorter than the original series.
Given that the story took place in the Underworld, added more enticement on the plot.
This was fine. Not great, not awful, just okay. A short story that fits itself into the series before the final book, this didn't add anything much to the overall plot. It was still lighthearted and a fun read, though.
I am a  HUGE  Percy Jackson fan. I just  LOVE  the series and Rick with all my heart. As a result, when I heard about this book, I just HAD TO read it. But I am sorry to say this book disappointed me. Immensely.The story line is an interesting one, that takes place in the Underworld. Persephone summons Percy, Thalia and Nico to help find Hades's sword that is built with a Death's key in the hilt (hope I got the term right :P) This key can lock and unlock death (I know! Right!) and also, theoreti
Persephone summons Percy, Thalia and Nico to help find Hades's sword that is built with a Death's key in the hilt (hope I got the term right :P) This key can lock and unlock death (I know!
And needless to say, they do so just at the right moment.With ittie-bitties about Sisyphus, Melinoe and the river Lithe, this 5-chapter story has great potential but (I never thought I'd have to say this for a Rick book) it doesn't live up to it.
You see, if I didn't know how well Rick really writes, I would have given this one 3 stars.
Actual Review: 4,5 starsGosh I miss Percy Jackson and his adventures. This whole story was so much fun! Reading this adventure about the demigod children of the big three brought back so many beautiful memories! Also, I finally witnessed Bob's creation! Percy, Thalia and Nico will always hold a special place in my heart!
I'm really annoyed that this book is only being released in the UK, at least initially. It might be difficult to get it prior to the publication of the 5th book, and it is supposed to take place between books 4 and 5.I really enjoyed the first four books in the series, so I'm looking forward to the next two.
Nice short story set in the Percy Jackson universe featuring Thalia Grace, Percy Jackson, Nico Di Angelo and Ethan Nakamura.
I am so happy I got another story of Percy Jackson!!! This time, i think there should have been a little more background of what Percy new school was like, I just love Ricks discriptions of Percy's different school. If you loved Percy Jackson, this is a great novella if you missed him!!!
Za svakoga ko voli Persija i Nika ovo je savrsena prica :) Puna akcije,humora i svega sto dobra prica treba da ima :) Obavezno preporucujem za ljubitelje Rika Riordana :) P.S. Ako nista drugo,procitajte bar zbog Boba :D
I finally understood Bob the Titan's back story.
من اینو تابستون خونده بودم چرا نزدم جزو خونده ها؟ :))خوب بود به هرحال. خندیدم سرش :دی
this story is in the demigod files
The story is a quick and enjoyable read.The plot is sorta weak, but it's hard to build a strong one when you've only got a 196 pages or so, so it's excusable.
*small applause* While I really would've liked a bigger story to feed off, this was a nice and quick read that I could pick up and finish in 10 minutes or so.
Nonetheless, I have Son of Sobek in my calendar to get a hold of as another short read; but it sounds so much more exciting!
4.5 FOR PTN!  I liked it a lot! Seeing the underworld again, Nico in it! Nico it's getting older 12 years old, the same age that Percy had when he discover who he was. it was fun to see Thalia too. And Nico stays with his father, I can't wait to see what will be going on there.BOB THE TITAN:Can't wait to see him later too. I picture him as a BFF for Tyson haha
Since I've read the Percy Jackson & the Olympian seires this book sounds very good! Also, Rick Riodan is a very good author the book title is very cool. "Percy Jackson and the Sword of Hades."
very cool, I liked how we got to see all three of the big three's kids work together.
Review to come eventually once I finish a few of my reading challenges.
A short read, but entertaining!Read summer 2015
This story was good. I do like his writing and Emma and I love to talk about the books with each other. If anyone is wanting to read this book it was released only in the UK but now it is in the USA in the book 'The Demigod Files' so you can find it there.
Okumaya kıyamıyorum Rick Riordan kitaplarımı, içim gidiyor vallahi. 😪
Unfortunately I found this one after I read The Last Olympian. I guess if I have read it before I could have enjoyed it even more. Still I liked this short story very much. I love the humour and the way greek myths are treated in this series.
For a reader who doesn't know the world of Percy Jackson, this story might be confusing though the plot does not affect the overall series plot.
Percy is pulled along with two other demi-gods to the other world to find the Sword of Hades for Persephone and the story is a quick and enjoyable read.A reader who is not terribly familiar with the tale of Hades and Persephone might find this a good entry point just as the books act as a wonderful springboard to other readings of the Greek Myths.
This was actually 2 books in one - the Percy Jackson book, and a book called the Groovy Greeks (which is not by Rick Riordan, but by the makers from the Horrible Histories books).
The Groovy Greeks is a funny introduction to Greek history, with loads of random and funny trivia and many comics.
groovy.The Percy Jackson book was a quick read, only 72 pages, but it had both Percy, Thalia and Nico (who are three of my favourite characters) and so I enjoyed this immensely.
Despite being short, it loses none of its usual charm and it makes for a fast but fabulous read.
I love adventures and this book took place in the Underworld.
The Sword of Hades is stolen and will be brought to Kronos soon.
If the sword was ever brought to Kronos, there will be a total chaos in the Underworld.
Percy, Nico and Thalia must stop the thief before he escapes from the Umderworld.
They were the children of the Big Three : Zues, Poiseidon and Hades.
And the funny part was when the Titan Iapetus fell into The River Lethe with Percy and got brainwashed.
Son of Poiseidon was fine but the Titan lost his memory and became Bob the titan.
Not as good as the others, but still good for a short story. I really like this series, it's one of my favorites, and I had read the other five books and didn't even know this one existed until yesturday. Percy jackson is still as funny as ever, and this time he meets Thalia and nico, the other children of the big three, hmm... Suspicious enough already huh? Nice light read, would definitely recommend.
