https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/261122.The_Dead_Girls_Dance
That being said, I liked it enough to want to continue on with the series and find out what happens with the characters.This entry in the series starts right where the first book left off.
A lot of stuff happens in a short amount of time and it starts to get really unbelievable, especially Claire continually saving the day being a size 2 16 year-old.The only character I really care about is Claire, and she did a lot of stupid things in this book.
I do like Shane and Claire's developing romance though.I honestly think Glass Houses and this one should have been made into one book in the first place.
Yeahhhhhh...Sorry dudes. I wear the cone of shame- I'm on book five of this series and I am NOT slowing down to write reviews...I WILL come back and add quotes for each book, though! :P Each book gets better and better!!! :D
As if deadly Vampires and a bunch of psychotic college girls isn't enough, now they have to survive Shane's bat-shit crazy father and his vampire-slaying crusade in a city where no one trusts them and no one is their friend.Apart from the fact that 4 teenagers manage to do more than a hundred centuries old vampires can do, this series continues to be extremely unique.
(hide spoiler)]Although admitedly Claire's puppy love for Shane doesn't exactly leave her room to acknowledge when he is behaving like and idiot(which is often), I also like the romance in the series between both couples.The weird thing about these books is that although Claire annoys you with her little girl behaviour, you just can't hold it against her.
Dear Series,I don't know what it is about you, but you confuse me unlike any other series around.
There are times that I like you and I want to get to know you better but then you go and do something stupid to turn me off, only to rekindle my interest in you a few pages later.
It's not fair, dear series.
I'm trying here, dear series.
I want us to be together, I really do, but you've got to be straight with me.
So, why did I read this?I read it 'cause I'm in the mood for reading a series with around 10 books and if anyone can recommend me something better than this, I'll be very grateful.I read the first part  Glass Houses  a year back, and disliked it too.
A 16-year old girl starts going to a college (early admission) in a strange town named Morganville.
Those random weird people tell her that the town is run by Vampires and once you've entered it, you can never escape.This plot is dumb as a fucking doorknob.There are so many flaws and so much of stupidity in it!
At the end of book 1 Glass Houses, Shane's psychopathic, vampire hunting father and his band of thugs showed up.
The vampires are hunting him and Claire, Shane, Eve and Michael are the meat in the sandwich.
She took it and squeezed.[to Ian, the guy who drugged her and was going to rape her] "I'm sorry about your nose." she said.[later] Those boys weren't monsters.
While defending herself from the would be rapists, she cracks Ian in the nose.
Later she thinks, those guys weren't so bad.WTF!!!
3.5 starsThis series is campy and fun book crack :)
Teenagers just aren't going to have much say in the rules.
If you think about the grand scheme of the story they really aren't the people you want to hear more about.Book plot consists of: have a nice happy dinner together = Claire and/or Eve to Michael and/or Shane "You can't tell me what to do!" = C&E either get locked in a room or leave and get caught (repeat 3 or 4 times) = vampire comes along makes big appearance and they live to see another dinner of chili or tacos.GETS OLD!
The Dead Girls' Dance is the second book in the Morganville Vampire series and it picks up right after the ending of the first book.
Claire and her roommates now not only have the vampires to deal with in Morganville but Shane's father has shown up with his bikers buddies.
I'm still kind of comparing this to some of the rather campy horror movies that are usually more for a laugh but that's not necessarily a bad thing either.
Hoping that Claire will mature a bit in the upcoming books.
Things should get a bit more interesting after some of the happenings in this book.
5 Stars: This story was even more intense than Glass Houses.
It was full of emotions throughout the whole book.
Claire's decision at the book's end is heartbreaking, but so in character for her.
This book was so much better than the last one.
Not to disappointed as of yet, and I am not going on a rambling tyrant reveling any details as I did with Glass House.
I strongly recommend!
With the exception of series based books that follow the same path but are just as good.
Overall, Favorite, must read again, recommend!!!
Πέρασε κ δεν ακούμπησε... δεν ηταν κακό... καπως αδιαφορο να το πω...
Sure, I liked Glass House even though I was ready to tear my hair out if I had to read one more fucking page of that book.But here?I couldn't even finish it.Wanna know the reason why I read this?
The fucking cliffhanger.Man, I hate those thing, they're pure evil.Anyways, I kinda have to thank this book because I realized this series annoyed me to no end.
Well, in this book I just couldn't see that.I'm sorry Claire, but you are just useless.
I’m going to make this real short, so here are some thoughts.The Dead Girls' Dance didn’t impress me much.
I felt like the events that the story focused on weren’t so interesting, and this didn’t get me in the right mood.
I didn’t think it was better than  Glass Houses, and it wasn’t worse.
Claire was better though.
Eve and Michael were as good as ever.
Shane.
Meh. He bothered me many times, but in the end he was alight.I got used to Rachel Caine’s cliffhangers so I was bracing myself for a big one.
My good friend Alk told me that book #3,  Midnight Alley, is badass so I’m pretty excited about it.
I love how action-packed these books are...they make for such quick reads!
This is the second book in the Morganville Vampire series and it picks up right where book one leaves off.
It certainly doesn't help when Shane's vampire-hunting father comes to town either, with a plan to take care of all the vampires of Morganville once and for all.If I hadn't read the first book so recently I think I may have been lost for the first several pages as this book picks up mid-scene from the events of book one, with very little reminder cues.
Wow, I'm glad I bought most of the series because these cliff hangers would otherwise make me frantic and would probably keep me up all night thinking when I got the next book.
I love Claire and all, but she's got to get some fire in her stomach.
When Rachel Caine decided to turn michael into a vampire in this book, I agreed because he was in limbo for a while there.
Okay, so I hate werewolves, so I guess I would be devistated if my friend turned into one.
They're best buds but he's made that his friend made the giant leap for him?
This wasn't as funny as the first book, but it still kept me involved. There was a lot of plot progression, but not a massive amount of character development. We get to know more about Morganville, and about Shane's past, but it was hard to feel very empathetic as he was absent through a large chunk of the book. This series is very episodic, which makes it hard to put down. It's fluff. But it's fun fluff.
The characters continue to be the same great personalities they were from the first book, and I really liked Sam. I feel like he may be the first vampire we’ve met who could be as close to good as vampires in this series can get.
Personally I think both Claire and Shane along with Eve and Michael are great couples.
It’s wonderful when the main character continues to evolve over the course of the series.
At the end of the book Shane made it obvious how little he wanted to do with his father, but I wonder how long that will last.
It made me wonder how does Rachel Caine fit so much it to one little book.
Claire is such a strong heroine despite the town's craziness.
I like the realtionship between Claire, Shane, Eve and Michael and how they look after one another.
And how can you forget Shane ....
Claire and Shane have great chemistry and sexual tension.
And I must say Monica she is just evil, I hope she has what is coming for.Overall this is one of those books that you can easily get lost in and when you are finished you will be left wanitng more!
I read a third of this book last night. Although it's okay, I don't think it's really for me, as it's certainly not thrilling me. Possibly too much action and not enough character development for me. So I've decided to move on to another book, and donate the rest of the books I have in this series to charity.
Well it was better than the first book.
Though my real issues where how Claire handled the situations.
Despite Monica, the mean (psycho) girl, trying to kill her in the last book Claire just kind of shrugs it off.
Not to mention that things just happen.
Claire and company don't think things through.
All of the little nuances I'm picking up are a fun look back for moments I still remember happening in the later books.
Not to mention that I love Shane, Eve, Claire, and Michael.
As mentioned there was some rape issues.
That isn't all this book does however - it has its own plot, and we learn more about our characters as they continue to develop and reveal things about their past.Perhaps my favourite thing that happens in this book is the introduction of Sam - Morganville's youngest (and sweetest) vampire.
There's also more of Richard - Monica's cop brother - who I love for the simple fact that he's constantly fed up with everyone and everything around him.While I do think this is one of the less memorable books in the series, it's definitely worth reading, both for the important things that happen and the developments between characters.
It may have been that it took me longer to read this one and I couldn't read it straight through, but I have to say that I got really bored towards the end.I thought Claire did some darn stupid things, I think Eve did some stupid things too, and Michael's choice was certainly an interesting one.The storyline revolved around Claire and Co, trying to get Shane out of jail for something his father did, and actually took place over quite a short amount of time.I can't say I enjoyed the romance, and the book really dragged towards the end.
Can't say I'm looking forward to the next one either.Overall; pretty dull, with stupid characters,6 out of 10.How it ends: (view spoiler)[ Claire manages to get Shane out of the prison, and they go home.
Monica is up to her old shenanegans causing problems for Claire and Eve. Amelie has placed protection on the Glass House four (Eve, Claire, Michael and Shane) but a death occurs and Shane and one of his father's biker friends is accused.
Amelie has revoked her protection for Shane due to the death.
Claire has to find a way to prove Shane is innocent and will do everything she can to protect him, even if her life is at risk.
There are new characters introduced in this installment, good and bad.I love this series!!
I know this is a very short review but this book was super good!!
One thing that shows is the justice system in this town is straight up wrong....I love Shane and the more I read about him the more I realize he is such a strong person who has been through so much.
Shane's dad is a MAJOR asshole.
I am glad that in this book we finally have Eve and Michael they're a match made in heaven.
Eve is one of the most kickass characters in any book series I have ever read.
Overall I love these 4 and how loving they are to each other my problems are monica, oliver and shane's asshole dad.
I like that this book picked up precisely where Glass Houses left off and kept to the fast pace.
And even though she's often annoying because of it, I do like that 16 yr old small-town nerd Claire is written to be naive and sophomoric rather than implausibly sophisticated.
The romantic aspect was also nicely done, as was the introduction of Sam. However, the villains were rather flat--perhaps to underscore that Claire is discovering that humans can be as bad as the vampires--so the sense of brooding menace from the first book was missing.
It's been a busy week since starting my new job with hardly any time to read but I still managed to read this gorgeous shiny book!This book is fun, spooky and just had everything to keep you going.
I'm sorry, but any series that portrays rape (attempted or actual) and attempted murder (as with the first novel) as not serious offences, and in fact brushes them off, gets a huge thumbs down from me.Rant aside, the book read very similar to the first one: disjointed, with some scenes added in for no particular or compelling reason.
The scene is portrayed as being of dire significance, and yet once introduced, he pretty much only crops up again in Eve's diary entry at the conclusion of the book (I actually thought the whole diary thing at the end to be a cute touch, and quite liked it).
In this book, the cliffhanger from the previous novel is resolved rather quickly, and we learn about new challenges faced by the inhabitants of the Glass House.I love how Rachel Caine slowly reveals her vampire lore and back story as the facts become pertinent to the plot.
By the end of the novel, Claire is faced with a difficult choice, where she must decide how much she is willing to sacrifice to save her friends and the people she cares for.Overall, I’m hooked on this series, as it delivers the right blend of adventure, intrigue, and angst to keep me turning the pages well into the night.
Overall, great series that I can’t wait to dive into book three.
At the end of the last book, Glass House, Shane called in his father in a desperate attempt to save them from the wrath of Morganville's vampires.
Of course, they managed to escape that wrath by earning the support and protection of Analee, the Founder of Morganville who had enough clout to keep them safe.The problem is, Shane's father and his vampire slaying biker gang still arrived.
Worse, he has no concern for collateral damage and his gang does not hesitate to kill humans who look like vampires – even resorting to kidnapping humans to follow their plans.And worse still, Shane is quickly implicated in the killings.
