https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17017131-no-more-parades
That is something Ford Madox Ford is quite emphatic about; this war is the end of life as it used to be, and there will be no more parades of any kind—not military, not marital.In ‘Some Do Not’ we saw Tietjens as he prepared to leave England for his assignment in the war.
Once again everyone’s perceptions are the product of prejudice and ill will and it’s impossible to set right a rumor once started; the store keepers are convinced the provincials are reluctant draftees rather than the volunteers they really are.The book is about evenly divided between Tietjens military and marital trials.
I wonder if these books actually work better read aloud than reading them on the page.
The book covers the period of a couple of days of Christopher's life in the midst of the Great War and gives some idea of how maddening the whole experience must have been, both in terms of horror and also in the constant changing of orders about the movement of troops.
It is a wonder that anyone involved survived with any sanity left.Sylvia's viciousness is given free rein, as she manages to turn up in France and cause even greater turmoil in Christopher's life than the Germans or the British commanders, which is quite a feat.I shall continue reading the tetralogy, but need a break from it!
One hundred years of literary activity have created an expectation of what a WWI novel should be: although written in the shadow of that war by an ex-combatant this does not conform to those expectations.The first book of the series seemed to set up a corrupt and decadent civilisation on the brink of disaster: Book two (this one) to me should therefore cover that disaster.
However, Ford just repeats the drawing-room melodrama of Book one but now against the backdrop of the thundering guns on the Western front.
However, I know from my experience of The Good Soldier Ford requires huge amounts of patience and super-aware reading, so no doubt my responses will develop throughout books three and four.He writes astonishingly, and with such control.
It has taken me a monumentally long time to get this far in the Parade's End saga, which I'm reviewing book at a time so I can get my thoughts out along the way.
- I still think Christopher is a wonderful character who's deeply misunderstood and taken for a ride by people around him.
While I'm glad to see the back end of this installment, I still think it's a wonderful book.
I thought perhaps it was just a dodgy digital copy of the book I had, but both my print copies confirm as much, too.
Free download available at eBooks@Adelaide.Opening lines:When you came in the space was desultory, rectangular, warm after the drip of the winter night, and transfused with a brown-orange dust that was light. It is becoming better and better....The sequel of this book is A Man Could Stand UP.
It covers only a short period, a few days in the middle of the First World War; their importance is that they are a high water mark in Sylvia Tietjens' bad treatment of her husband.The events of the novel illuminate Sylvia's character more than Christopher's, and show the reader the reasons behind her actions much more sympathetically and fully than in Some Do Not....
This is a double sided coin, of course, for it does not just mean the destruction of the cruelty and fickleness of Sylvia but also of the virtue and decency of Christopher.
Which is what the book is, really: a very tight winding in the distinct voice of the times.Not a re-read for me.
If I was forced to choose one to re-read, it would definitely be A Man Could Stand Up–, which has some achingly beautiful language and moments.__________I had decided to move this book up on my queue when I saw that the new British TV series was written by Tom Stoppard.
(For Stoppard reviews, see here and here.) Of course, Cumberbatch fever helped.I ended up watching the whole five-part series while I was on a break from reading the novel, which has confused me considerably.
Too obviously an intermediary step of a larger work.
No More Parades by Ford Madox FordAnother version of this note and thoughts on other books are avail
if I don't get some of this story from her perspective, she's going to leave a pretty awful taste in my mouth.
Pretty ballsy of her to see the war as nothing but a roadblock on the path of her lifelong battle with her (equally reckless?)husband.
This has turned out, so far, to be a very interesting study of a man's sense of duty to his country, marriage, and social structure.
It's difficult to feel any sense of compassion for these mega rich self obsessed characters- but they are drawn so completely, and so committed to their positions- I can't help but want to see how this plays out.
I am getting more into this set of 4 books and found this second one more easily read and understood. The writing is still very scattered but that seems more purposeful in indicating the very scattered thought patterns of the characters. I still don't understand the motivation of the main character's seemingly appalling wife. Why does she want him with no money, why does she want to denigrate him in the eyes of his brother, social contacts and family friends? Perhaps that becomes more clear in the later books. (Purchased Ca Foscarina bookshop, Venice)
Really couldn't get into it. Whilst I can appreciate the literary talent that Ford has employed, I couldn't enjoy reading it.
Read Ford Madox Ford’s Some Do Not, and No More Parades.
Very odd.One thing I did relate to though, was the sense Tietjens had of being of the 18th century, out of water in the 20th...
Last week someone said they often wondered "Whose thoughts are these?".
They meant which character was talking or thinking at any one moment, but I wondered how much of Ford was in Tietjens - he said he was based on a man who died, and that his marital situation was based on someone he knew (also dead) from Philadelphia...
You have to read the other two books, was it only to know how she ends up.Sadly I am not at all familiar with the army and customs within the army at all, so especially the first part was difficult to get through at times.
But this can of course not be a reason to give this book a lower rating.
This definitely must be a four star rating.
Maybe one of the last two books in will even reach five stars.In the last chapter Tietjens has a long conversation with General Campion, who is his Godfather also.
You definitely need to read the whole tetralogy.
We see Christopher drawn deeper into despair by his wife Sylvia (probably one of the most evil, heartless characters I have read), suffering all the more cruelly because of his upstanding morals and good nature, and also by having a man die in his arms during a raid.
In this book we see Sylvia's Catholic guilt over her past affairs, stating that the Virgin Mary's child had no father, whilst her's has two.
It's as if by forcing Christopher to have an affair, she can clear her own feelings of guilt.
Looking forward to reading on!...
I found the beginning to be confusing, following Tietjen's train of thought and conversations was difficult with them being so disjointed and repetetive but I understand Ford's reasoning behind it.
It gives the impression of trauma and shell-shock, leaving you as confused and frustrated as the sufferers.
Sylvia Tietjen's character is complex and difficult.
She doesn't seem to know what she wants or how she feels.
We get clarity into their situation as their past is explained, along with their relationships but there are times when Ford expects you to discern understanding from what he has said, without making it explicit.
This one is much more dependent on the other three novels of the tetrology than the novel preceding it, Some Do Not. Whereas Some Do Not covered many relatively brief episodes over a large swath of time, No More Parades is much more grounded chronologically, striving for depth where the former had range.
There is much shown by Ford concerning his characters in both cases, and the use of these two different approaches when used in adjacent volumes is quite pleasing.
No More Parades also further develops the beautifully complicating fact that Sylvia feels some love towards Tietjens despite her frustrations with him, and that he perhaps has feelings for her beyond simply duty or parade.
Book two of Parade's End was a little hard to get into at first.
As the story begins, Tietjens is in a hut with several other soldiers as shells are falling.
A runner that Tietjens sends out comes back wounded and dies in his arms.
In the middle of all that, Tietjens is made aware that his wife has come.
She is desperate to raise some emotion or reaction from him and plans another disastrous situation with her lover, Perowne, that leads to his being disgraced and transferred to the front as the book concludes.
Deservedly acknowledged as one the major British novels of the inter war years. As a reader you are engrossed in the subtlety and refinement of the psychological portraits of the likable/unsufferable Tietjens, his deadly beautiful psychopath wife Sylvia and the supporting cast of characters. With the ominous backdrop of the WW1 Western Front drawing closing in you witness high drama and fate on a Greek tragedy scale.
Creating a 'good' character is difficult and the hero of Ford's novels is just that. Tietjens has plenty of faults but a remarkable ability to bring the best out of people (with the exception of his wife) under the worst circumstances. The part of the book set in the trenches is one of the very best and most unusual treatments of World War One that I have read. I think the novels are seriously underrated.
Book two in the four book series continues the story begun with Some Do Not. Tietjens, the central character, is in the Army and in France where his situation will become more dire as Sylvia, his wonderfully diabolical wife continues to make life complicated for him. The timeline hasn't advanced much, but the writing and the characterizations cement this series' place in the great literature to come out of World War I.
Not an easy read, because the style is dated. I wouldn't recommend it to the average reader who merely wanted entertaining. But I did love it. The novel has a sense of history, a different way of looking at the First World War and how that war was changing society.
Some of the chapters in this book were so long. It hurt. As a whole...this book is still awesome. Tietjens remains an intriguing character...as does Sylvia. And I can't wait to get to the next one. (Sort of...I need a break though).Excellent book though. Just exhausting.
Even better than the first book. Full review on my blog.Side note, I do miss cross-posting here but cannot on principle after GR has gotten so heavy handed about deleting reviews.
See my review here:https://whatmeread.wordpress.com/2016...
Phew. 900 plus pages of exquisite,complex prose and quite possibly the most unpleasant character ever created in literature in Sylvia Tjetiens. Wonderful...
Ford fans, watch this video.http://www.kickstarter.com/projects/6...
This section of the book is very dense and went slowly for me. Hoping it is all worth it in the end.
I'm pretty sure this novel takes part over just two days, at most, it's amazing. The first insight into Sylvia's mind and really just incredible writing
Perhaps the most challenging of the sequence, in terms of modernist difficulty as well as emotional anguish, but more than worth the effort: a book about the Great War should be painful, right?
