https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/82817.Zoya
Excellent read! filled with historical facts,mysterious,characters were wonderful and good storytelling....highly recommend (paperback!)
Cuando la terminé, me dejó una sensación muy melancólica.Su pero es que tiene muy pocas páginas para todo lo que quiere contar; mientras leía sentía que apenas lograba atrapar un barniz del paso del tiempo e incluso, hacia el final, me parecía estar leyendo una crónica de los hechos más relevantes de la historia.
Obviamente, así no se puede profundizar en los personajes, aunque, a pesar de todo, sí lograron traspasarme el dolor y el sentimiento de pérdida de seres queridos, de lugares, de otros tiempos...Me recordó mucho El jinete de bronce, aunque, por supuesto, le falta mucho para estar a la altura de la maravillosa obra de Paullina Simons.
در هفده سالگی؛ احساس بزرگی میکرد، در واقع تقریبا یک زن شده بود با این همه هنوز احساس میکرد دختر بچه ای بیش نیست.
با خود لبخندی زد و با چشمهای نیمه باز، سعی کرد دو کاخ مشابه پشت دهکده را ببیند.
ساعاتی که پیش مادام بود سخت کار میکرد، و همیشه تصور میکرد یک روز فوکین، استاد معروف رقص او را پیدا خواهد کرد.
در کودکی لذتها و وحشتهای مشترکی را با هم تجربه کرده بودند و حال میبایست ماری را میدید با آنکه به مادرش قول داده بود این کار را نکند.
Cuando decidí leer esta novela, lo hice pensando que sería una historia ligera, sin grandes pretensiones, y nada más lejos de la verdad. A mi modo de ver o entender es una novela triste, dura como la vida de la protagonista, y que se aleja totalmente de lo que yo considero es una novela romántica. De todas maneras, es una gran historia repleta de amor y sufrimiento...
This is pretty much the only Danielle Steel novel that I ever liked.
I would get her books as gifts, or I would pick one up thinking I would like it and just never did--they were all too similar, too lacking in substance--the cotton candy of books for me.
This one, I actually thoroughly enjoyed (it was a gift and at first I though, oh no...) Maybe it's because of the whole Russian history aspect...or maybe Ms. Steel was differently inspired for this book.
At any rate, if you don't usually like Danielle Steel, this one might be different for you.
It's amazing what being locked out of ones house for four hours, with no money and no phone, and the only option for somewhere to stay with reading material, is the local Starbucks free library, and the only option on those shelves being those of a book to quit smoking, children's books and a book in Spanish, will induce you to read.
I really liked this book when I was 10, mainly because I was obsessed with the Russian Revolution and cherished the possibility that I might be Anastasia Romanov. I've read it since then and it is the usual Danielle Steel schlock with tons of ellipses to fill space, lots of cliches, and banal unevocative descriptions. But, there's no such thing as a cliche when you're 10! It's a good read for people who are younger, not widely read, or big fans of Danielle Steel, as I used to be.
Reading this book is like watching the trailer for an incredible movie -- and then realizing that you just watched the movie and there was nothing more to come!Every time Zoya is in some new and interesting situation, you think, ah, now it will get really exciting and romantic.
She's a pampered princess in Russia for like, five pages.
Then she's poor in Paris.
Then she's rich again.
Then she's poor again.
And all the time it was like, when will the action really start?
Danielle Steel writes like she's writing Cliff notes for a novel someone else wrote.
I read this one in High School. I really liked it because it was the only thing I could do while in detention hall. (that could be its own story). It was the biggest book my mom had, on her dresser. I stole it to keep me occupied. It worked. I want one of those eggs.
Lovely read! good storytelling,depth and also a few tense moments between certain characters..one can feel the love of family..well written (paperback!)
I don't know but I find all of her novels so realistic and believable...In this case, our main character a young countess Zoya lives a pleasant life with her family in St. Petersburg.
She ends up in Paris but as a countess she doesn't know hard work.
And finally, when you think everything is ok… BAM… you realize that you're not even in the half of the book!
You never know what's going to happen next and … Well, it kept me on the edge of my seat.
I'm giving it three because I loved it when I was younger, but I'm almost positive I'll hate it now like I do with both the Titanic and Vietnam war novels she's written. I'm sure it's full of historical inaccuracies and I'd rather look back on this book as a read I loved as a teen and leave it in the past.
This is not the first time I have read this.
I first read this when I was 9 or 10.
Probably too young but who cares.
Being 38 now, I've read it probably 20 times since then.
normally I read fantasy.
I love "old war love stories", The Bronze Horseman by Paulina Simmons is my all time favorite book.
This is one of the few books I literally fly through.
The ONLY thing wrong is I'm really not a fan of dogs dying in books but that's life.
I will reread this a few dozen more times in my life.
3.5. I liked this book a lot more than I thought I would. I really enjoyed all of the historical aspects of the book, especially the parts about the Russian Revolution. I liked Zoya' s personality and the rest of the characters as well. I realize it was a major part of the story to have Zoya go through a lot of difficult things, but I wish there would have been more of a happy ending for her.
This is one of my favorites. I'm not a huge D.S. fan but this story is one that I love to read; over and over again. Fictional characters fit so seamlessly into actual historical events and she describes it all so beautifully. Almost makes you wish you had been there to see it and enjoy the ride of highs and lows along with the characters in the story.
Preciosa historia de Anastasia Romanof
Kahramanların hepsinin gerçek kahraman olduğu ve dünyada yaşatılması gereken bazı erdemlerin olduğunu okuyucusuna hatırlatan bu eserleri otuzundan, kırkından sonra okumak ne kadar manalı olabilir ki?
Daha kötüsü, yirmi yıl önce mükemmellik konusunda zirvede olan o kitap bir de bakıyorsunuz ki o kadar da mükemmel değilmiş.
Hatta bazı yazarların başka bazı yazarlardan çok kesin çizgilerle aldığı ilhamlar(!) okumakla geçen yılların neticesinde daha önceden görme imkânınızın olmayacağı kadar net bir şekilde görünmeye başlıyor gözünüze ki bu durumda yapılacak tek bir şey var.
Çocukken çok zevkle okuduğum bu yazardan daha sonra bir satır dahi okumadım.
I first read this book about 7 years ago. I had this thoughts Russia and always dreamt of moving there just so that I could attend Christmas mass and feel the snow and all that. This is the only Danielle Steel book I ever liked and reading it a second time gives me reasons why. She kept repeating things it started to annoy, I was here for the story, I just realized that. and also for the love I felt. I always wanted more. I still want more. I want love like this.
At first, despite the bad writing, it was promising, as the interaction between Zoya and Marie wasn't the worst thing, and it was kind of nice to see a Romanov sister besides Anastasia, especially one as overlooked as Maria, in the spotlight.
After Zoya visits the Romanovs (and gets given a puppy, because puppies) while the girls besides Maria have measles, Steel makes a weak attempt to build up the characters of Zoya's brother and father as these really admirable, likable people.
N’ayant rien connu d’autre que le luxe de la haute société jusqu’à ses dix-sept ans, la révolution la force à découvrir un monde tout différent, dans lequel elle doit travailler pour assurer sa subsistance et celle de sa grand-mère.
Et, comme dans toute fiction romantique qui se respecte, elle rencontrera l’amour.Je dois admettre que, à ma grande surprise, j’ai été transportée sur les pas de l’héroïne sans même m’en rendre compte et j’ai apprécié ce roman qui me laissait au départ sceptique.
C’est là qu’elle rencontrera l’amour, une histoire touchante, mais bien trop romancée et rapide à mon goût.Voilà donc l’héroïne partie pour New York, où elle fera à nouveau partie des personnes influentes.
This is one of the two books from Danielle Steel that I've read.
Lol).
I've researched extensively about the Romanov family and watched a lot of documentaries about it.
So when my Algebra Tutor mentioned that she used to read this book about the Czar and his fallen family (it wasn't really about them, though), my heart skipped a bit.
I MUST read this book!Well, it was hard to find a new copy of this at that time so I wasn't able to read it right away.
Lol. I also sympathized with this heroine a lot throughout the story (well, she did have lots of ups and downs).
Would it be weird to say that I enjoyed the first half of the book, more than the second?
The story of Zoya and her Grandmothers escape from Russia and life in Paris was much more interesting to me than her subsequent life in New York.I felt curiously disconnected from much of the story, like reading an outline, rather than reading a novel - which is a problem I've had reading other books of hers.
This wasn't a very good book.
A few pages in, though, I wasn't sure I could continue.This is a world where everyone's gorgeous or handsome, is loved for no reason, and has to be thrown adversity after tragedy just to have something for the author to write about.I get that good fiction tends to have some great event that propels characters forward, but it has to ring true and make sense.
The author also tried to infuse some historical scenes in there, but really, it could have been a variety of countries and/or situations; it wasn't really relevant.From what I gathered from other reviews, this is the way this author operates.
If you didn't see the 1990s TV movie, or want to read the book version of it, Zoya's set in the beautiful backdrop of Russia, during the World War I Europe for this magical and classic Danielle Steel historical romance.
Zoya, a cousin of the Tsar, fled Russia to find safety in Paris France.
While her world changed before her eyes, she joined the local French ballet, and when things settled down in her life, she moved to New York City.
As she rebuilt her life from the bottom up, she held onto the things she held so dear to her heart--her family.
I used to read a lot of Danielle Steel when I was younger, but I stopped as I got older. Reading this book, I remember why I stopped. Tragedy after tragedy happens to the main character, almost to the point of "Damn, give this woman a BREAK already!" The writing style is amateurish and weak. Really, I only picked this one up because of the Russian Revolution aspect of it. While that part of it was interesting, the book dragged and dragged...mostly because you knew just ONE more tragedy was waiting around the corner. A little too melodramatic for me.
Había leído un libro de Danielle Steel y no me había gustado. Pense en darle otra oportunidad con este libro que tenía aparentemente mejor opinión en general y una trama que tenía cosas que pintaban bien... pero la verdad fue incluso peor que el otro, el peor libro que leí en mi vida. No hay trama, no hay desarrollo de los personajes, muertes al por mayor e innecesarias. En fin lo siento pero a mi no me gusto nada y es el último libro que leo de la autora
OMG. When I read this book. I did not return to the owner. I become bitchy about and boy did I just own it!!!!!!!!!!!!! I've read this book many tyms and I have never got bored with it. Zoya from the tym she escapes the Russian Revolution with her grandma, the hardships and pain she went through. wow. Its tells of the tale of richness, to glory , to poverty, war, deaths, beauty and survfival of a young Russian princess from the 1900s to the Cold War. She survived all the wars. IT IS LOVABLE.
Set against the backdrop of the Russian Revolution, Zoya was a good "beach" read while vacationing in the Outer Banks of NC. In typical Danielle Steel fashion, leading character, Zoya, is a strong, determined, beautiful woman who must face and overcome many challenges and obstacles. The writing was somewhat "flat" and when characters died I didn't feel any emotion. The historical setting and connections to the Russian Tsar were the most interesting part of the book for me.
one of my fave novels of her. It's about a Russian girl's life before and after the chaos in Russia. She was one of the people who close to the Tsar's family. Really interesting, she really tasted the sweet and bitter life and best of all, she fought for her happiness and survived the hard times.
I vividly remember this book - my grandmother gave it to me and I read it when I was a teenager. I absolutely loved it. It led me to other Danielle Steel books, which for some reason I kept reading, even after I realized they were all almost exactly the same. This one is, without a doubt, her best (in my opinion), and I'd love to reread it to see if it holds up after over 20 years.
