https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/631147.Mystery_of_the_Glowing_Eye
Danger and intrigue haunt Nancy Drew in this thrilling addition to the book series.
If it had existed and I had read it in 1970.
I enjoyed this book for all the reasons I enjoyed Nancy as a kid-Nancy's independence, persistence in pursuing the clues to a nice tidy mystery ending.
(and I'm still envious of her roadster) Nancy investigates a strange eye shaped glowing light in a museum and the kidnapping of Ned. The coincidences of all the clues leading to ending of these mysteries bugged me a lot as a huge Nancy Drew fan in 197.
Now I'm way too old and they kind of make for torturous reading.
I haven’t read Nancy Drew mysteries for ages, but I honestly loved reading this story of the young detective.
She randomly stares into space a lot, I guess from all the concussions, though she hasn't lost consciousness in three books.In the first chapter a pilotless^ helicopter crashes in Nancy's yard.
The glowing eye thing doesn't make sense at all.She gets a temporary new boyfriend who is a helicopter pilot until Ned makes his own triumphant return flying the helicopter that crashed in Nancy's yard at the beginning.
New Boyfriend and George each give Nancy a vigorous massage after the magnet wall injury.^ It's a robot helicopter running due to "program tapes" which is a 70s version of computer programs?
The ending cracked me up because Carson Drew was asked for his hand in marriage by a woman lawyer who was competing against Nancy and worked at his office.
That was how the story ended.
Besides that, the story was out together in typical Nancy Drew format.
Nancy seemed to take a liking to a pilot who flew her all over the place, but after offering his devotion to helping Nancy, he is never mentioned again.
And of course, Nancy and Ned are "friends" so the pilot can't interfere with that.
I love Nancy Drew, and I am glad I am reading them again as an adult.

I do not remember reading this one when I was younger. The story was pretty complicated, and I guess for its time (1970s) fairly advanced content-wise. And who knew Ned was working on such high-tech, complicated work in his teens? Oh brother. Too much science-fiction vibe in this one for me.
first book i ever read!
Doesn't this cover creep you out?
Peppo read.
a fun read bit doesn't transcend time. no kid this day and age would feel like they could just grab a helicopter driver and putz around town in a copter. I think most young kids would be confused about why they don't just use their cell phones for a lot of this. plus there is a lot of dumb heroics that kids are advised not to do nowadays. the idea of a paralyzing light is interesting.
I'm sure I read this as a kid, but I found a couple at the thrift store & it seemed just RIGHT to read some Nancy Drew.(And my son, Ned, is named after his great grandfather. The connection with Nancy Drew's beau is just a great coincidence.)
Addicting.
Great quick read.
In the mystery of the glowing eye, I was all curled up in my blankets! This story is an amazing story and it was so thrilling! Five Stars from me!
Interesting and fun book.
AWESOME BOOK! full of suspense!
This is the 51st book in the series, dated 1974.The main characters are Nancy, her friends Bess and George (both female), Ned, a friend of hers, and Marty King, an assistant to Nancy's father.Nancy's concerned that Marty will try to take a certain case away from her.
It becomes a matter of trying to find the information needed to stop him, and trying to find where he has taken Ned. Several places are checked, but the crook keeps one step ahead of Nancy.Not really so much a mystery, since the crook is known, but a story of trying to find a way to stop him and free Ned.One very interesting thing is the effect of the culture.
The Mystery of the Glowing Eye  is a children's story by Carolyn Keene (pseudonym) and the 51st book in the  Nancy Drew  series. Nancy Drew and her friends explore the Anderson Museum at Emerson College to solve the kidnapping of Ned Nickerson. And a fiery glowing eye in the museum, the code name Cyclops, and a pilotless helicopter draw them further into the dangerous investigation. I’ve always been a voracious reader. So, as a child, one of my favorite things about summer was the frequent trip
Nancy Drew and her friends explore the Anderson Museum at Emerson College to solve the kidnapping of Ned Nickerson.
And as I would read her most current adventure, I would imagine myself following in her footsteps … taking charge and plunging ahead, getting into mischief, chasing down culprits and solving the mystery.
Even though I haven’t re-read any of these books since I was a child, I still think that Nancy is a great character—her courage, confidence and fierce independence, makes her an iconic source of inspiration for young girls everywhere.
A must-read children's book, 
is another wonderful Nancy Drew mystery.
Nancy and her friends Beth and George try to go and uncover the mysterious case of the glowing eye which Nancy thinks that the cyclops and the mystery of the glowing eye are all connected some how and she needs to know why and try to save her friend Ned from being killed.
It WAS a helicopter about to land on Nancys' frontyard Beth ran inside full of fear while Nancy and George stayed outside.
They read and the note said "Beware of the Cyclops" which Nancy and George stood in complete shock.So yes this was just a small part of the book.
This is by far the best of the Nancy Drew series.
This is the first book where we see some true emotion from Nancy.
I think the character has finally evolved to more of a real person instead of girl wonder with an endless supply of money and time.
She worries over Ned. Ned should be happy - it's the first time I think I've seen her actually care about someone rather than use them or treat them like a victim/perp.
Ahhh...to be Nancy Drew, charming, vivacious and everyone but the bad guys love her.
Another enjoyable (if completely unbelievable) Nancy Drew book.
Still, great fun.
New developments also with the trio and their boyfriends (lots of on-campus fun).
The original books were written before women generally went to university, and its the boys only who have college classes.
The girls come to visit and work on their detective projects.
Also here a serious contender for the heart of Nancy's Dad, and competition for Nancy on the detective front.
Interesting to read a Nancy Drew book further along in the series.
My friend found it in the lake cabin we were renting, and I was SO HAPPY.
It took me right back to childhood summers with Mom's old books and whatever I could get my hands on at the public library.
(I always thought of Nancy and her friends as really smart and tough, but Ned's pals were always stepping in to protect the girls.
And why isn't smart, wealthy Nancy in college like Ned and the other boys?) And the constant references to Bess loving food a bit too much are really sad.
great for nostalgia, but there are better books for the modern reader.
I remember the first time I read Nancy Drew. It blew my mind that there were girls presented with a brain. Most of the stuff I'd read up to that time, was that girls were sugar and spice - fluffy. No brains. To also learn about George who is a tomboy was a nice validation. Carolyn Keene wrote just for me! That is how I felt. When I did more research, I was shocked to find out, Ms. Keene was actually a man ... writing under Frank Dixon. I also loved the Hardy Boys. No wonder I loved these series.
I enjoyed this book--it wasn't as goofy as I had remembered it. The kidnapping of someone Nancy cared about and Nancy's jealousy over her dad's new researcher brought some emotion to it that is usually lacking, though I wasn't impressed with Nancy's workaholism to avoid those emotions. Nancy and her dad's inability to find time to communicate was different and the mystery and sleuthing were fairly good.
I read so many Nancy Drew books in middle school that I forget how many and which ones, but this one I do remember because of the eye on the cover. It was so creepy and cool. I loved the old books. Read some of the new ones as well. I remember receiving this one in the mail from the library. Our library used to send books that you put on hold to you in the mail. I loved it because it was like getting a gift.
This is probably the most scariest Nancy Drew book. Its very interesting too, I would keep this book but like I said its pretty scary... There's a huge eye and Nancy's trying to get it bit it gives out warning. Also Ned it kidnapped. Ned gives Nancy a message that says: BEWARE THE CYCLOPS, in a remote controlled helicopter that lands in her yard. There is lot more I have to say but I'm just going to keep it at that.
I read and gave reviews of all the books I'd won, and out of reading material, I found this book I'd read in grade school. Back then I read everything by Carolyn Keene the library had. It really brought back memories of characters long forgotten. Then I would have given it 5 stars; now as an adult it gets a three.
Nancy Drew is the reason that I read mysteries in the first place. I have always liked them and am enjoying reading the ones that I have missed over the years. They are very well written and easy to follow. I do at times wish she had a cell phone but then I remember that a lot of these books were written before cell phones were such a big part of our lives.
I love almost all the Nancy Drew series (mostly because I've never read some of them) and I started reading them in fifth grade. "Mystery of the Glowing Eye" was one of the first Nancy Drew books I ever read, and I thought it was amazing! If you like Mystery/Crime books you'll love this book. SO READ IT!
