https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15626.My_Sister_Life
I love Pasternak's poetry. This is his early, wild, unhinged work. Or at least, unhinged to me! But I did love two poems: "English Lessons" and "Storm, an Endless Instant." Simply beautiful.I also looked at other translators' versions of these poems, a shocking tour. Rudman and Boychuk seem to shine here, eliciting the elegance and power of Pasternak as a poet.
Breathtaking poems of ethereal light and being inhabit this collection from Boris Pasternak.
Osip Mandelstam said, "To read the poems of Pasternak is to get one's throat clear , to fortify one's breathing.
I see Pasternak's My Sister--Life as a collection of magnificent exercises in breathing .
a cure for tuberculosis." These poems are enchanting; the product of the early life of Pasternak.
This is a beautiful collection of poems that provides a counterweight to the more familiar Pasternak of Doctor Zhivago and his other later work.
Essential reading for fans of  Doctor Zhivago , this influential 1922 debut collection of Pasternak’s poetry remains startling in its nature mysticism and life-force exuberance (Pasternak’s exhortation in the poem “Sparrow Hills” to “Get your soul in motion, stretch it like a sail!” is like Walt Whitman as a caffeinated Zoomba instructor). Translator Mark Rudman (who co-translated the text in 1983 with Ukrainian poet Bohdan Boychuk) in his informative preface says Pasternak was “enchanted” when
, this influential 1922 debut collection of Pasternak’s poetry remains startling in its nature mysticism and life-force exuberance (Pasternak’s exhortation in the poem “Sparrow Hills” to “Get your soul in motion, stretch it like a sail!” is like Walt Whitman as a caffeinated Zoomba instructor).
Translator Mark Rudman (who co-translated the text in 1983 with Ukrainian poet Bohdan Boychuk) in his informative preface says Pasternak was “enchanted” when he wrote these poems, which, he suggests, manage to be both “wild and controlled.” The voice will be familiar to Zhivago readers.
The novel’s final chapter with its compendium of Zhivago’s poetry is pitched in a similar ecstatic vein.
I cannot speak to the accuracy of this translation. However, particularly when compared to so many other translations of Pasternak's poetry I've encountered, this version [Rudman & Boychuk] flows, providing at the very least a glimpse of why Pasternak was so highly regarded in his day.
I am not a fan of poetry so I got this just to read the bio on Pasternak, which was short but interesting. It had cool pictures, don't know why the poetry is acclaimed but of course Boris is a phenom in handling Dr Zhivago.
I have the bilingual edition of this (an old hardcover). Perhaps not my favorite poet but still very important in my development.
csodás versek!!
Magical. I can't even imagine what it must be like in Russian.
