https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/191632.The_Womanly_Art_of_Breastfeeding
That's about it.Most moms work and many of those moms work full-time, so having an entire chapter of a breastfeeding book devoted to advocating that women NOT work is unsupportive, misogynistic and completely out of sync with the reality of breastfeeding today.
Good for you if you want to and can afford to stay home, but since it takes way more dedication to nursing to hook yourself up to a pump every two hours (and then wash your pump parts and bottles etc) than it does to just lift up your shirt and nurse, working moms should be acknowledged as the breastfeeding rock stars we are.
I am a huge breast feeding advocate.
It saves you a lot of money, it's super convenient, it's better for baby and the closeness you feel with your baby is just breath taking.
Weaning her was hard for both of us!That being said, breast feeding is a HUGE commitment.
This book is meant to be supportive and informative, but really, to me it just added to the pressure I felt to do it right.
When I consulted it for tips on weaning my baby it made me feel bad that I was weaning her at all.So, I don't know about this book.
This is a 2-2.5 star book.I checked out The Womanly Art of Breastfeeding (2004 ed.) from my local library to get a jump start on learning about breastfeeding and particularly about pumping after I return to work (baby is not yet born).
The scant number of pages dedicated to working mothers who pump was filled with guilt trips and some actually erroneous information (not sure if that's because it's from 2004 or not).
This book would be so much better and would be a must-read parenting book if LLL could only manage to put aside their biases against certain women.
I wish I'd read this book before my first child was born!
I read a few other breastfeeding books before #1 was born but breastfeeding did not go smoothly and my references books were not very help - didn't address my problem at all.
When I was pregnant with #2, I opted to read this book as well as Husband Coached Childbirth (another one with the weird name but great advice).
They even had my issue with my oldest in it - I wished that I'd read it earlier.
While this book contains some good information on breastfeeding, I found that, overall, it functioned more as an ideological manifesto than a how-to guide.
Still, enough with the attachment parenting cult, the repeated use of William Sears (and no other pediatricians) to hammer home your points, and no acknowledgment of either the difficulties of breastfeeding or the LEGITIMATE NEEDS OF MOTHERS.) When I looked up the section on sleep, for example, I was not given a list of options for approaching night time feedings.
No one has a right to a full night's sleep, the book scolded me.
This book would lead you to believe that as long as you do not have medical interventions then your child will be *perfect*.
My daughter was born with a cleft lip (which we knew about prenatally) and had problems breathing at birth (because of meconium aspiration).
Their only advice for mothers of babies with cleft lips is, "it shouldn't be a problem." This book advocates not giving your child formula for any reason.
If, for any reason, you have to use formula, this book will make you feel horrible.
I reread this book after my daughter was born and it only made me feel despair for the situation we were in.
This book is great for the woman already determined to breastfeed, however I worry that a woman on the fence or that is struggling with negative feelings towards breastfeeding, might be put off by the overly positive portrayal of breastfeeding.
I found the chapter on working mothers especially disappointing, offering some tips in the beginning, but wrapping it up with "success stories" of women who chose to leave their careers for their children.
This is not much different from formulas who offer breastfeeding advice and wrap it up with their own agenda.
This book has a lot of valuable information in it if you are, or would like to, breastfeed.
However, I must say that no one should ever sit down & read the whole thing cover to cover unless they want to know more than anyone ever wanted to about nursing!
Use it to troubleshoot, or pick & choose the chapters that apply, but it was really rough to read the whole thing.
I cheered when I got through the last page.
Although, I have also successfully nursed 3 children already & knew quite a bit of this stuff just through trial & error, so...
This book advocates for FOD (Feeding on Demand) and talks a lot of shit about Kathleen Huggins' PDF (parent directed feeding) system. Hilariously, both methods actually are close to the same, once you get past the terminology. Too much of the book is spent attacking PDF (the breastfeeding philosophy, not the portable document format) and talking about how kick-ass FOD is. I just noticed that I seem to be the only male who reviewed this book. Weird, huh?
Many women need to return to work immediately, particularly in our post-meltdown economy, and do not have supportive workplaces where pumping is possible.
Some women have biological issues that prevent their children from breastfeeding, despite endless endless consultations with lactation experts, weeks on medication to keep their milk production up, and endless hours applying peristaltic pumps to their nipples.
Inability to breastfeed despite the best intentions and greatest efforts has been a factor in the postnatal depression of more than one of my friends.
This is an excellent resource for anyone wishing to breastfeed. Despite LLL's reputation for being militant when it comes to the "breast is best" philosophy, I didn't find the book to be overly dogmatic or off-putting in any way. Excellent troubleshooting section.
Often I read reviews of these books that detect a condescending tone (e.g., that natural birth is the only way to go).
In this reading context, then, I found The Womanly Art of Breastfeeding to be fairly condescending.
One personal example from the book is from a wife whose husband lost interest in the baby because babies "don't do anything." The wife, who was, we assume, breastfeeding every 2-3 hours, spent time and energy coaxing him otherwise and was successful in doing so.
This is a very informative tome, covering lots of different breastfeeding topics.
It covered the stuff that is in all the pregnancy and early childcare books, as well as topics I wouldn't have thought of, such as different feeding holds/techniques, unique troubleshooting information, and lots more.
It includes many different references, not just for breastfeeding, but for other issues as well, such as sleeping, feeding solids, etc.The downfalls to this book, however, were annoying enough that they kind of shadowed my overall reading experience.
One of my problems is that they place themselves (La Leche League) above the medical community as breastfeeding authorities.
DNF, and it was the 2010 edition if that makes any difference.One part mommy-shaming, one part pseudoscientific crap, and two parts informercial for La Leche League, this book made me so angry I almost cracked my Kindle's screen removing it.I'm as pro-breastfeeding as the next woman, but the author of this book seems to delight in making up her own facts.
If you're looking for science-based, shame-free facts about how to breastfeed and why you should consider giving it a whirl if you can, toss this in a dumpster (preferably one that's on fire at the moment) and look elsewhere.
Perhaps, like me, you ended up having a c-section after labor failed to progress and there was fetal distress and you cried because this was not what you wanted and maybe no one was on board with the whole breast crawl in the operating room and maybe you were exhausted and in pain because you are resistant to painkillers and you are trying to have the baby latch and he just doesn't know how and you don't know how because for all the photos and youtube videos in the world you have only two hands and how exactly do you cup your breast with the c-hold and bring your baby to the breast while keeping his mouth open and positioning and all that shit that later comes super easy?
That being said - this book helped me immensely.
During the fog of sleep deprivation of those first few weeks - reading the appropriate chapters and having "someone else" tell me that what I was doing wasn't insane, gave me the strength to forge ahead.
As a first time mom, I had no clue how much pressure there is from other people on how exactly you should be parenting.
Sleep training vs.
attachment parenting vs.
Reading this book in pieces - and re-reading certain sections - helped me tune out all of the noise and focus on what I felt was the best course of action.
I did read it cover to cover and my LO has not even arrived yet, I have also already been attending my local LLL meetings and trying to get comfortable with the wild world of breast feeding, so this probably colors my review somewhat.
If you are looking for a book that is going to say "hurrah for formula" this is probably not the book for you, similarly, given that it is published by a breast feeding support group, one should expect that they are going to advocate exclusively breastfeeding.
Does the book have its own orientation and agenda?
For such a massive tome, a bit thin on details -- for example, every section about problems with nursing was supremely unhelpful and super vague. I found more detailed info from websites like KellyMom and Facebook groups. Perhaps for those who can't get online, this might be a helpful start, but pretty disappointing.
A must for every pregnant woman/new mother's bookshelf!
Book 5 of the year. 1st Doula training book. Excellent read.
Blech. My kid and I figured out things ourselves and definitely found the cultish La Leche League to be a bit much for our taste.
Well then, how about instead of complaining about anything that supports stay at home moms, you just take from the book what works for you and leave the rest?
The war between working mothers and stay at home moms was designed by evil forces who want us at each others' throats instead of building a better world with and for our children.
Society is shifting the other way, as well, as more working women stay home these days and discover that BOTH SIDES OF THE COIN ARE STILL THE SAME COIN.
I think almost every baby can learn to sleep well without CIO, but we parents just don't know where to find other ideas to try since the CIO ones are so publicized.
Lots of great new stuff.Chapter 17- "Alternate routes" with a good variety of issues: exclusive pumping, premature babies, multiples, relactation, induced lactation, special needs babies (clefts, Down syndrome, cystic fibrosis, etc), maternal issues (HIV, diagnostic medical tests, cancer, breast surgery), lactation after baby's death.
And fussy baby ideas, which is so much of an issue for many new and experienced moms, also got a tear-out sheet.
I wish I had read this book a year ago. I read it cover-to-cover instead of hopping around it like with a reference book, and I'm glad I did--ten pages from the end, I finally found out why I had a certain pain in the first month of nursing!!! I feel so much better prepared for weening my firstborn (when she's ready) and nursing any more babies who may come our way 🙂
Other reviews have mentioned that it's helpful as long as you ignore most of it and dig up the parts with actual information, which makes it sound like a pretty lousy book, no?The entirety of chapter 2 on labor describes how natural childbirth is an amazing miracle that you will cherish forever, how obstetricians and hospitals are the enemy, how everything will be magically wonderful as long as you do it naturally, and all problems with birth and breastfeeding stem from any medical procedures that you allowed to happen, which are always referred to as "interventions." In maybe a few places, they concede that some of these interventions may be necessary for those poor souls who have high-risk pregnancies though these women should still fight tooth and nail to do everything naturally.
An incredibly thorough book that covers just about everything you need to know about breastfeeding!
It seems people perceived some kind of lack of information about pumping/needs of working moms, etc.
There is ABUNDANT information about how to pump, as well as how to make breastfeeding (and pumping) succeed during the separation caused by a working mother.
Similarly, the "bias" people perceive about how information for working mothers is portrayed.
But we need to acknowledge the drawbacks of working mothers especially in terms of a successful breastfeeding relationship.
And that is because working mothers are not ideal, from a purely biological standpoint.
I did not like/agree with their ideas on baby's first foods as I do not want to introduce baby cereals and rice so early.They advocate for BFing as long as momma and child are willing/able.
This is a positive since in our Western culture people tend to look down on BFing in general and especially when they are a year plus of age.I skimmed and skipped most of the chapter(s) dealing with the working mom and breast-feeding, as it doesn't apply to me and it's such a long book anyway.
Many of them have great legacies where their children retained their vision for natural birth, breast-feeding, and having many children!
With the publication of this 7th Revised Edition of their handbook, however, it's become clear that they've turned into an organization intent on shaming mothers who don't breastfeed instead.It was difficult for me to read this book because it's written like a religious tract.
Breastfeeding = good behavior, and should you transgress, a) you're not a good mother/person, and b) you're subjecting your child to all sorts of terrible things due to your sinning.
"Babies are born to be breastfed." I don't care if it's a quote from the U.S. Dept of Health and Human Services: it's a ridiculous quote.
The first time I picked up this book I was pregnant with my first child and reading it as an expectant mom who had no previous knowledge of, or experience with, breastfeeding - I found it immensely helpful.
Not only for the 'technical' aspects of breastfeeding, but also for things like what I can expect in terms of how often and how long my baby will eat for, emotionally how will breastfeeding make me feel, and what to do about nursing in public.This time around I read it more critically as a Childbirth Educator for a book club that I am a part of.
If a woman falls into this category, I wish her good luck getting through the rest of the book before getting to the section relevant to her.
And the options LLL offers to these women are ridiculously unrealistic for most modern women.I also felt the authors would only appeal most to 1950s housewives, which I suppose makes sense since the book was first written in 1958.
The authors all seem, from their bios, to have been stay at home mothers.
Overall, the book contained some useful information on general parenting and baby care as well as specifically breastfeeding information.
