https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99731.Pitcairn_s_Island
In the third novel of the "Bounty" trilogy, the mutineers of the "Bounty" take their Tahiti brides and four male islanders and settle on the previously uninhabited island in the Western South Pacific, the place known as Pitcairn's Island.
Bligh and his crew had nothing, but managed to make it all of those miles to safety with only two men lost.In contrast, the mutineers had vast resources, an entire island to themselves along with more supplies from Tahiti and the supplies of the "Bounty" itself, and in the end they end up being murdered by each other.
Not a big fan of fiction...
but have read 3 books of the mutiny on the Bounty.
This novel based on actual events is actually very good.
It really grabbed me and kept me reading.
The characters are very well developed to where you actual start to develop feelings towards them.
No one really knows exactly how things happened on Pitcairn Island, but this book is so well written that it is almost convincing.
I have since learned that this is the third book in a trilogy...
maybe I will have to read the previous 2...
this one was good enough to make me consider it.
It's a messy story of violence, alcoholism, and sexual confusion, in an earthly paradise - Pitcairn has the natural resources to support a couple of hundred inhabitants, but even so the small settlement disintegrated fatally.Nordhoff and Hall dramatise some parts - Fletcher Christian here lives for a few agonising days after the inevitable killing starts, whereas most historical accounts agree that he was one of the first to die - and undersell others - I would very much like someone to write the story from the Tahitian women's perspective, given that they outnumbered the men by three to one after the first spate of killings, and by twelve to one from 1800 when the second last mutineer died.
I have always felt something special about Fletcher Christian. Even though I respected Captain Bligh for his perseverance in 'Men Against the Sea', I could never forgot his inhumane behavior with the sailors. Christian was a great leader, but not nearly as heartless as Bligh. This book makes me cry every time I read it.
Simply amazing tale of humanity... the dark side of humanity that is! This is the best book I've read in years, a vital read about the perils of democracy and vulnerability civilization. It's a story even more timely and important now than it was 200 years ago.
It is a novelized version of the real events that comprised the lives of the mutineers who fled from Tahiti to escape potential capture and punishment along with a few Tahitian men and women.
A few of the men and all of the women and children survive two very awful days, and there is potential, again for peace to reign, but this time alcohol and mental illness lead to several more years of disintegration from which the women eventually flee with the children, to form their own fortified society at the other end of the tiny island.
The society the Americans discover is a peaceful, organized, beautiful, and literate one, but it has been hard-won.
The men who sought refuge on Pitcairn's Island after their mutiny called it an Eden, but from day one it was nothing of the sort: every sort of evil, from murder to adultery to gluttony, came with them.
In the end, however, there is a pleasantly surprising amount of hope.On a side note, while I read the three books in order - "Mutiny," "Men Against the Sea," then "Pitcairn's Island" - and spaced out by many months, I think it would be better to read this novel after "Mutiny." It would, I believe, preserve continuity and leave the characters' personalities fresh in mind.
This book was fascinating and very depressing. What a sad end to the Bounty mutineers and their incredible attempt at making a new life for themselves on Pitcairn Island. I was blown away by their ability to start a new life on an unknown island in the south Pacific and be so isolated. I have learned two things from this book, alcohol ruins everything and be nice to your neighbors because they just may kill you.
The third book in the series and a wonderful capstone. This is a fascinating account of the lives of the mutineers and their Tahitian wives and companions on the isolated island home, Pitcairns Island.
I would have given this four stars because it really is quite a gripping and surprisingly thought-provoking read, but I probably wouldn't have read it had I known how violent it is. Not that the authors weren't reasonably tasteful in describing horrendous events.
I found this postscript to the Bounty mutiny much more interesting than the mutiny itself...
বাউনটি বিদরোহ নিয়ে রচিত টরিলজির ৩য় বই। বাকি দুটোর মতই দারুণ উততেজনায় ভরপুর। বেশ একটা রোমানটিক আবহাওয়া অাছে এ পরবে। বিদরোহী নাবিকদের একটা অংশ তাহিতিতে আশরয় নেয়। বাকিরা ভারপরাপত লেফটেনযানট ও বিদরোহের হোতা ফলেচার করিশচিয়ান এর সাথে আবার জাহাজে চেপে রওনা হয়ে যায় আজানা গনতবযের পথে। তার সঙগী আট জন বিদরোহী এবং আঠারো জন পলিশেনীয়। একদিন তাঁরা একটি দবীপ খুঁজে পায় এবং সেখানেই নিজেরা আলাদা করে বসবাস করতে থাকে। দীরঘ আঠার বছর কেউ তাদের কোন রকম খোঁজ পায় নি। সেখানকার কাহিনী নিয়েই এ পরব।
বাউন্টি বিদ্রোহ নিয়ে রচিত ট্রিলজির ৩য় বই। বাকি দুটোর মতই দারুণ উত্তেজনায় ভরপুর। বেশ একটা রোমান্টিক আবহাওয়া অাছে এ পর্বে। বিদ্রোহী নাবিকদের একটা অংশ তাহিতিতে আশ্রয় নেয়। বাকিরা ভারপ্রাপ্ত লেফটেন্যান্ট ও বিদ্রোহের হোতা ফ্লেচার ক্রিশ্চিয়ান এর সাথে আবার জাহাজে চেপে রওনা হয়ে যায় আজানা গন্তব্যের পথে। তার সঙ্গী আট জন বিদ্রোহী এবং আঠারো জন পলিশেনীয়। একদিন তাঁরা একটি দ্বীপ খুঁজে পায় এবং সেখানেই নিজেরা আলাদা করে বসবাস করতে থাকে। দীর্ঘ আঠার বছর কেউ তাদের কোন রকম খোঁজ পায় নি। সেখানকার কাহিনী নিয়েই এ পর্ব।
The sequel to Mutiny on the Bounty. Fletcher Christian and eight other white men, along with six Polynesian men and twelve Polynesian women, found an idyllic, remote island where they could live out their days in peace, away from the long arm of British law. But add it up. They were short three women. That only started their troubles, though. The story is brutal, and horrifying, and true. I couldn’t put it down.
Epic, it's hard to imagine that this really happened, but it did! One does not need to read the first two books of the trilogy to read this, in fact I had no desire to do so. This could be made into a intriguing film by Spielberg or some great film maker.It was not a book I would have naturally picked up on my own accord, but an avid reader suggested it and I took note and gave it a whorl!
Unbelievable. The entire time reading this book I had to remind myself that all these things I was reading about actually happened. Even after being finished I still can't believe what I just read was real.
The writing is still solid but the story trails into a dark area that makes you yearn for the conflict of Captain Bligh and Mr. Christian.
sounds like a lovely little island
A fitting end to a wonderful trilogy of historical fiction
A dimmer edition to the Bounty series. Liked the first one mostly.
I even remember reading about the American ship stumbling across the descendants of the mutineers years later, but I never did the subtraction to realize that it was not enough years later for all but one of the men on the island to have died natural deaths ...When I picked up this book, I did think that staring an island society with pirates and mutineers might not be the best recipe for assembling a tropical paradise.
Finally McCoy and Quintal died or were killed, and Young and Smith were sober and ready to act civilized so the society flourished.
Pitcairn's Island is the most ambitious of the three books in the Bounty Trilogy.
Whereas Mutiny on the Bounty described the voyage from England to Tahiti and the sailors' rebellion against Captain Bligh and did so from the point of view of Midshipman Roger Byam and Men Against the Sea told of Bligh and the rest of the loyal crew members' 3600 nautical miles sail in an open launch to Timor and did so from the perspective of the ship's doctor, Thomas Ledward, Pitcairn's Island mostly tells things from the third person.
And at book's end it provides us with a somber and elegiac close that will forever have those readers who themselves lust after clear mellow nights on the South Seas looking to the same skies that Smith did.
On sait que les trois livres qui composent le cycle romanesque inspiré par la mutinerie de la « Bounty » peuvent se lire dans un ordre indifférent : chacun d'eux est une oeuvre qui se suffit à elle-même.
Quinze hommes et douze femmes, Blancs et « Indiens » liés par le même destin, se réfugient donc, un beau jour de 1790.
Leur chef, Fletcher Christian, acquis aux idées nouvelles, entend partager équitablement la terre et traiter Blancs et Indiens sur le même pied.
Leur récit, pour incroyable qu'il soit, ne se fonde que sur la réalité la plus exactement repérée.
Looking for Utopia, or the possibility of some kind of other world, I read this book with interest.A bunch of Bounty mutineers leave the world as they know it, as fugitives, accompanied by some economic/social exiles from Tahiti, 1790.
Things were going really well on the deserted island of Pitcairn deep in the unchartered Pacific when the castaways - about 15 of them, half Europeans, half Polynesians - shared the land of the Island, and lived and worked as kind of unintentional communards.
Then when some of the Europeans started to divide up the land - to enclose it - all hell broke loose.
Not a bad read for those who love seafaring & island adventures.
It can be read w/o knowing much about the first 2 entries of the trilogy, other than there was a mutiny & Fletcher Christian was its leader.
The characters are shallowly drawn, & the themes are simply the evils of alcohol & cultural prejudice.
One culture refuses to recognize the other as equal in any way, & the 2nd eventually responds w/ murderous vengeance.
While there are enough twists & surprises to keep the pages turning, this is a slow read w/ lots of chaff to wade through b/t kernels of action.

When I read the authors' apology for the violence in this book in their introduction, I took it as a quaint nod to the sensibilities of an earlier era. But no, Pitcairn's Island is a horrific story of murder and tragedy. In this Heart of Darkness-like account of the Bounty mutineers' attempt to establish a Utopian society on Pitcairn's Island, a remote piece of rock in the South Pacific, things fall apart in gory detail. Still, it is a stunning novel based on a true story, and worthy of reading.
Holy moly. Not sure what I expected from the third volume of the Bounty trilogy, but it wasn't this. For 100 pages or so, Nordhoff and Hall tell the tale of how the Bounty mutineers, joined by a small group of Tahitian men and women, set up an egalitarian community on Pitcairn's Island. It all seems very utopian at first. Incrementally, though, dissatisfaction sets in, and once the first act of violence occurs, it never stops. The last 100 pages are a bloodbath of mounting horror, and I read the whole thing in one day.
Of all the books in the Triology, it is clear that the mutineers and their decendants bore the brunt of the tresspass commited onboard the famous Bounty. This is a hard book to read, as it is a very disturbing tale - especially through the middle - but for those who persevere there is a tale of redemption amidst consequences for sin. Although it should be noted that Pitcairn's troubles seem to continue (even today) with evacuations due to overpopulation, and recent trials concerning a pattern of child molestation that many considered "cultural".
This book is the third in the trilogy The Bounty Trilogy: Mutiny on the Bounty/Men Against the Sea/Pitcairn's Island. With visions of Mel Gibson as Fletcher Christian in my head, I bypassed the first two books in favour of the third and lesser known story of what happened to the mutineers of the Bounty.
this was the conclusion of the Bounty Trilogy and in many ways the most entertaining of the works. The tale of Christian and those who stayed with him and the Bounty. they along with friendly natives find and inhabit Pitcairn's Island. The evolution of the characters and the settlement itself is very entertaining.
