https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13497505-love-does
I think Mr. Goff makes a great overarching point in this book that we, as Christians are called to do MORE than just sit around and argue over whose interpretation of the Bible is better or best.
At the same time, I do think that a lot of Christians do tend to hide in their Bibles instead of living what it says to do.
I did get quite a few good insights out of this book and was inspired to practice loving in more active ways in an effort to live more like Jesus as I am called to do.
My dad, who loves me a lot, has been concerned for me since I rejected Christianity about a year and a half ago, and he bought me this book because he wants us to talk about spirituality through it.
(It's OK if you skip the rest of the review here)When I was a Christian, I was very involved with an organization called Young Life (a nondenominational Christian outreach program with adults making friends with high school and middle school students and sharing the love of God with them), as a high school kid, a volunteer leader during college and law school, and a committee member when I finally finished school and got a job.
He seemed larger than life, yet the kind of person everyone would want to befriend.In fact, were Goff's path to cross with mine, I'd insist on buying him a drink simply so I could hear more of his stories.I completely understand why so many people are singing Love Does's praises.
I try to be mindful of the effort it takes to write a book whenever there is criticism to bestow.)Love Does consists of 30 short chapters, each containing a story of some antic or experience and followed by a spiritual truth of sorts.
The book has some redemptive chapters however most of it comes across as bragging material about how great Mr. Goff's life is.The sub-title is "Discover a secretly incredible life in an ordinary world." Apparently the words "if you have lots of money and time" were left off.I do not know anyone including myself who has the money and/or time to:1.
Buy last minute round trip tickets for two to Europe and run around London for three days.2.
Take a last minute trip to Yosemite and spend three days there.3.
Bob Goff and Donald Miller are friends and similar writers/thinkers, and I had the same issue with this book as I have with Miller's -- the writing tends to annoy me.
Bob Goff is obviously a smart man, and to me it feels like he is just trying to write how his readers might talk.
It's like if my husband left me a to-do list and love notes all around the house, and I say, "I'm not going to bother reading those, I'll just LOVE him." Studying the Bible (sincerely, with a desire to know God) is a way to learn to love Jesus better, not an alternative to loving him.
Each story is like a little proverb Bob uses to connect his life story to the story of Christ.
Bob uses his own life to try to point believers to action in their independent pursuit of Christ.
Now I don’t for a second believe Bob completely would dismiss these things, but there are a number of times he makes derogatory comments about these pursuits.
Instead these proverbs from Bob come interpreted almost solely through the lens of his own experience.While there is great wisdom contained in this book, I am a little concerned with his ethic of using experience as the primary agent to understand God’s work in his life.
I would never have finished this book if a friend hadn't specifically given it to me to read.
I complained all the way through it and was thoroughly annoyed.Overall, I agree with the premise - Christians need to stop talking about loving people and tangibly be there for them.
However, the entire book comes across as a "look what I did" with stretching comparisons to a vague concept of Jesus' life.
There are several inspirational moments and I highlighted a few passages, but there are so many distractions from his message that I couldn't enjoy it as much as I had hoped.Based on his stories, a more accurate title would be _Love & Money Do_.
Those parts are glossed over (if not completely omitted), and how to start a mission this big would help people more than explaining the end result.So, yes I was inspired by some of the stories, but his book is less about "Love Does" and more about "Look What I Did".
I was a little less than half way though this book when I met Bob Goff.
He seemed to be chatting it up with some old friends in the lobby of a conference my husband and I attended.
We nervously lingered and I clutched my book, hoping for a signature.
"Hey guys!!!" he exclaimed, as though he'd ran into some more old friends, grabbing us both in a big hug.
"I'm reading your fantastic book and I was hoping you'd sign it if you have a second," I said.
Love doesn't just feel, or talk or learn.
Love does.
You have got to read this book.
Instead, I finished with a strong motivation to do more within the life I am currently living: to love people better through action, to do the things God created me to do (which are completely different than what Bob was created to do) and let go of the rest, to not worry about "the rules" and instead love people the way God does.Also, Bob wasn't kidding about being available.
Ian and I called him, just to see what would happen.
We left a voicemail, and he called Ian back the next day.
Knowing firsthand he lives out what he wrote in the book makes his words mean that much more.
It's just that I think a better subtitle for the book would be, "Pick an Anicdote, They all Lead to Jesus - No Matter How Far I Have to Stretch I'll Find a Way." So much eye rolling took place while reading, I had a very hard time paying attention to the message.
Which in and of itself is nice - love is about doing something, not just talking about it or believing it.
Oh, but in "doing" love, it helps if you have a lot of money.
The most sincere and helpful part of the book was the Epilogue.
I would like to congratulate and celebrate the new number one slot on my list, Mr. Bob Goff and the book “Love Does”.
Really, I just want you all to know how strongly I feel about the book I just read the last words in.Best.
If there was ever a book I connected with from the opening words, it is “Love Does”.
He’s telling stories about a life lived and how it intertwines with his faith in Jesus.
Follow Jesus and when you live this life to the fullest, “Be Awesome”.Bob, I think you are doing just that.
Thanks for “Love Does”.
Many of the things he "does" are not so much evidence of his love as evidence of his lawyerly wealth, like flying his kids to 30 different countries on a moment's notice, and he seems oblivious to how much of what he "gets away with" is evidence of his privilege, not just a cute metaphor for being a Jesus freak.
Goff shares anecdotes from his life, and uses these anecdotes to make a point about God/Jesus and faith.
In the initial chapter, for example, Goff related a story about him deciding to leave high school as a junior and moving to Yosemite.
When you read chapters like this, you can see why so many people are fans of this book and fans of Goff.
Goff’s stories are engaging and often funny, and the spiritual nuggets resonate with that part of Christians that believe that all too often we unnecessarily complicate faith (and we do).
And I love this part like crazy: "I want to pick a fight because I want someone else's suffering to matter more to me.
I need to pick the fight myself...Then, most important of all, I need to run barefoot toward it.
But I want to go barefoot because it's holy ground; I want to be running because time is short and none of us has as much runway as we think we do; and I want it to be a fight because that's where we can make a difference.
That's what love does." pp 195-196 And, maybe this deserves a fourth star, Bob put his phone number in the back of the book so you can call him if you want.
I highly recommend it to anyone looking for good stories and a great example of how to show Christ in your life through loving others.I was given this book as a Christmas gift because my Mother-in-Law sat next to Bob Goff on a flight from Uganda to the US.
My Father-in-Law can confirm that they sat up the whole flight chatting about many of the stories contained in the book as well as others.
Bob is the genuine article and his examples of how love does are truly inspiring.I would recommend this book for anyone.
A sweet treat of a non-fiction book full of bite-sized bits of wisdom, humor and heart. Goff lives his faith in a refreshing, bold series of deeds…the ‘does’ in love. I especially enjoyed his tales about being a dad, husband and friend. It’s the kind of book that leaves one with the desire to live a little more bravely, try a little harder, love a little more. A splash of sunshine.
I hate it when people recommend a book and don't tell me that it's a Jesus/God book! I read all the stories which were OK and then skipped the part after each story that talks about religious implications. I consider myself a Christian but like to know before I start a book that it leans in the preachy direction.
If you're the author of Love Does, you need a lot of money, plenty of free time and even more privilege in order to live a lovely, whimsical life.I wanted to like Love Does, really I did.
While I'd probably enjoy sharing a cup of coffee with the author in person, his book reads like a wooden collection of stories where he shows off his privilege and tried to make connections to religion in ways that are confusing and unnecessary.
“Have you read this?” “What do you think about this person’s perspective, theology, slant?” As the proverbial commercial always said, “Calgon, take me away!” Then about a week ago, I picked up Bob Goff’s new book Love Does: Discover a Secretly Incredible Life in an Ordinary World.
Instead, Don introduces us to his friend, Bob. He writes, “I don’t know how to explain Bob’s love except to say it is utterly devastating.” Most forewords tell you why you should read the book (and in a way it did), but moreover Don told the reader why we need a person like Bob in our lives.
In 31 short chapters, Goff narrates various personal experiences to illustrate spiritual platitudes. His premise is that God’s love is real, active and whimsical and our love for God and one another must be the same. In tone, humor, word choice and even the terms he found it necessary to explain, this had the feel of an inspirational speaker addressing a middle school youth group. Although simplistic, I did not find his message offensive, but I did find the delivery of that message condescending.
Love Does is a fun book. It’s a fun book because it’s very human, and you get to hear all the crazy things that humans do. In fact, the whole book is a series of anecdotes about one human — author Bob Goff. He recounts the usually hilarious, often unorthodox, and frequently shocking events of his life, and extrapolates spiritual life lessons therefrom. The book’s power lies in its quotable one-liners, heart-tugging tales of love, and poignant insights into human nature. I found myself laughing o
Love Does is a fun book.
In fact, the whole book is a series of anec­dotes about one human — author Bob Goff.
The book’s power lies in its quotable one-liners, heart-tugging tales of love, and poignant insights into human nature.
I also wrote down a few good ideas that I’d like to incor­po­rate into my life.Because of Goff’s abil­ity as a writer, and his strik­ing obser­va­tions on life, the book has the power to encour­age.
Like the bal­loons, the book is fun, attention-grabbing, and enjoy­able.
I probably would have read through to the end of this book if I'd had time before it had to go back to the library.
In my opinion, some of the things Goff advocates, or tolerates in his narrative, are extremely dangerous - as in potentially life-threatening if readers were to follow his example and that of his family.
However, I cannot recommend a book that could potentially lead by example to such unnecessarily dangerous experiments as those recounted in "Love Does." Some things, love doesn't do without a good reason.
And given the assumptions of white, evangelical middle- to upper-middle-class Christians (his primary audience), the people reading his book won't ever question that his approach to extraordinary living is for everybody with little modofication needed.
That they should cultivate a bit more easy-breezy confidence and walk through the barriers that feel like prisons.I think it's telling that of all the protagonists in Goff's stories, none of them (save his daughter and his ex-girlfriend, and the latter is not really the protagonist) are women.
I don't often find the time to read non-fiction, but I LOVED this book. It's written in a funny, engaging style...but it's the message that really got me. That we're to live a life, live a faith, that's fully engaged. And his examples--wow. This was one of those rare books that got me immediately thinking about what small things I can change in my life to make a big difference. I already bought EVERYBODY, ALWAYS and can't wait to dive in!
A good book with a good message. Perfect thing to read in the car on the way to North Dakota for my first college class; making me think that maybe I’m not too crazy!
I don’t remember what they said in the interview, but it made me curious about this lawyer guy and his smiling wife.A few weeks after the conference his book Love Does: Discover a Secretly Incredible Life in an Ordinary World was on sale for $1.99.
I don’t have a problem with rich people, because I want to be one myself.I have another friend who went to IF:Gathering just to hear Bob Goff speak.
Like the book, I just want to do things and be awesome.If you are already interested in learning more about Bob Goff and being encouraged to live life differently then I recommend this book.
It's not fair of me to critique a book like this — one with a theme (that love isn't about a feeling or a choice of words but about DOING and SHOWING how you mean it) I wholeheartedly support.
And yet, I'm going to.Because even though I'm still glad I read it (and I'm glad my purchase of it supports Bob's international non-profit, Restore International) at times, I wasn't always glad to BE reading it.
And I think *that* was my biggest fault with "Love Does." It's precisely because Bob lives SUCH a large life that, to him, what so many of us are limited in doing in the name of Christianity is not enough.
Every once in a while you read a book that enthralls so much you wish everyone in the world would read it.
I doubt you'll be able to read this book without wondering where someone like him comes from or how anybody could see the world in such a unique way.
Love Does: Discover a Secretly Incredible Life in an Ordinary World shows the most important paradigm shifts in his life, filtered through his faith, and wrapped in some of the most wonderful stories I've heard anyone tell.
Highly recommend the audio version just so you can hear Bob tell them to you himself.
I don't understand this book. This book is weird, yo. It reads like narcissistic personality disorder.Here's the - I can't even, I don't even have paragraphs or a substantial review for this. My issue with this book is too basic and too simple. It doesn't need them. It's this: Whimsical people don't have to tell everyone how whimsical they are. Especially not multiple times, in the first paragraph.You can change the verb "whimsical" to whatever verb you like. Funny. Loving. Kind. Whatever. What
I don't understand this book.
This book is weird, yo.
Especially not multiple times, in the first paragraph.You can change the verb "whimsical" to whatever verb you like.
What Not To Wear taught me that if you have to say it on a shirt, you aren't it.And DC Talk taught me, way back in middle school, in amongst the slut shaming and judginess of the Free At Last album, that love is a verb.
Love does not need to DO.
Love does not need an additional verb attached to it.
LOVE IS A VERB.
