https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7430121-miss-hargreaves
Two young gentlemen take shelter in an old church and get chatting with the sexton.
They invent having known a lady who was the friend of the late parson of the church.
Over a period of time with adventures, encounters and some travels, it is all very awkward and she won't go away and in the end, they are driven to flee.Very clever writing indeed, very funny, and yet, there is pathos for the plight of the old woman who wasn't there again today.Highly recommended for something a bit different.The sense of humour, the gentle, very English misty, rainy day humour is similar to the Jerome K.
It has the feel of a classic and I am pleased both that it was reprinted by the Bloomsbury Group (in 2009 - it was originally published in 1939) and that it happened to catch my eye in the library.On holiday in Lusk, Ireland, Norman Huntley and his friend Henry Beddow happen to visit the local church.
But they get the shock of their lives when, on returning home, she actually turns up for an extended stay (replete with her cockatoo, dog, harp and bath) and proceeds to wreak havoc on their hitherto orderly lives.She is a marvellous character and I love the whole idea of imagination bringing forth life.
Foi isso que aconteceu com os amigos Norman e Henry, que morando na Inglaterra foram dar um passeio na Irlanda.
Ao sairem da igreja , até escreveram uma carta para uma suposta Senhora Hargreaves que estaria em um hotel qualquer, a convidando para ir visita-los na Inglaterra.
Uma louca que escapou do manicômio, alguém estava pregando uma peça neles também, ou teria Norman a conhecido em algum momento mas já não se lembrava mais ou realmente o que eles tinham inventado se tornou realidade?
O livro é bem escrito ,cheio de reviravoltas e vai nos fazer pensar duas vezes antes de desejar ou inventar qualquer coisa.
Reason for Reading: I love British literature written during the first half of the 20th century and all the books reprinted in The Bloomsbury Group sound delightful.Summary: Norman Huntley and his friend Henry are visiting an old church and while speaking to the keeper, on a lark, they invent an eighty-plus old woman, Miss Hargreaves, giving her quite an eccentric character, a cockatoo, and a bath she takes with her everywhere.
She latches onto Norman like a dear, long lost friend and Norman's once sedate life as choir member, organist and bookstore helper turns upside down with the havoc created by the imaginary but very real Miss Hargreaves.Comments: This book is simply put, a pure delight!
While on a very boring tour of a rundown old church in the neighborhood they are visiting, the two young men, Norman and Henry, get caught up in telling the local sextant a series of lies about an elderly acquaintance, Miss Hargreaves (pronounced Hargrayves, never Hargreeves).
In this satire of life in a rural village in England, things pretty soon get out of control.What a wonderful character Baker has created in Norman's father Cornelius Huntley.
Cornelius tells wild (and unbelievable)stories about the crazy things that have happened in his life.
This is a fantasy novel.I feel like that statement needs to sink in.
And also this is a quiet domestic novel written in the 1930s with a little old lady.
But, yeah, this is a fantasy novel.Norman Huntley and his friend Henry Beddow every now and then enjoy making up stories.
It's not exactly my cup of tea, but I have to say it's well written and I was honestly moved by its poignant moments, like when (view spoiler)[Miss Hargreaves finally realizes that she is not real, that she is just a thought.
This book is right up my alley - a Bloomsbury reissue of a lost 1940's British gem.
It's hard for me to say if Miss Hargreaves is supposed to be a likable character.
Norman's mother says it best: "I think one could get quite fond of her, and yet never want to set eyes on her again." She is a British octogenarian version of Frankenstein's monster and Norman has a love/hate relationship with his creation.
Even when Norman is loving her, I was felt like I wasn't quite seeing her with sympathetic eyes.
I particularly love this Bloomsbury reissue with the pen and ink drawing on the opening page and the samples of Miss H's poetry in the back.
Por momentos me encantó pero otras veces quería arrojarlo por el inodoro.La historia tiene una premisa muy interesante, un comienzo atrapante y un concepto de trama central que es bastante único y que está bien logrado.
Sin embargo, tiene DEMASIADO relleno.
Hay partes de la novela en las que uno podría saltarse 30 páginas sin perderse de nada.
Las escenas “buenas” son excelentes y los giros de la trama me parecieron bien planeados y divertidos; originales.
Pero las escenas que sobran aburren mucho porque uno nota enseguida que no aportan al avance de la historia.El final en sí me gustó.
I actually bought this book because the premise sounded so cute.
They are shocked when somehow their actions have actually created a real person, Miss Hargreaves.
It is amazing with such an original plot device, Baker manages to create such a stinker.
I ended up just skimming the last half of the book, it was so annoying.
It didn't help that the cathedral of the town and all the people and gatherings that go with it figured so much in the book.
I would need to get some sort of Church of England vocab book just to understand half of what was going on.
Cute idea for a book. I liked it at first but then it was pulled out far too long to the point where it got tiresome and I struggled to finish it.And the main characters were all rather idiotic. They almost could have been lovable in that Wodehouse kind of way... except they weren't.
The premise was so good but I felt like the same thing kept happening over and over.
The work relates the mysterious (but comical) tale of Norman Huntley, who while on vacation in the wilds of Ireland with his friend Henry, whimsically invents a fictional elderly and eccentric woman, the eponymous Miss Hargreaves.The joke backfires (I am tempted by Baker's rhetoric to exclaim, "lo and behold")...Miss Hargreaves appears in Henry's town of Cornford (pseud.
for Cornwall) and anticipated misadventures and misfortunes for the perplexed Henry follow.High jinks and monkeyshines, all reminiscent of the Ealing studio films with Ian Carmichel, Sid James, Peter Sellers, and Margaret Rutherford, enthrall the denizens of Cornford for the subsequent 300 pages.
At best, one might regard this novel as a "demented" Pygmalion with screwball comedy highlights and vague film noir elements.
When Norman and his friend go on holiday they take shelter in a church, get talking to the sexton and mischievously make up a Miss Hargreaves whom they claim was a friend of late vicar of the church.
When they get back home to Cornford, they are horrified to find out that Miss Hargreaves is on her way for a visit.The writing it witty and the story has enough pace to keep you turning the pages wanting to find out what will happen next.
I don't want to give to much away about the fate of the characters, but I loved that this was a very unusual realisation of a story of this period and setting.
Norman, the main character through whom the tale is told, seemed a bit of a wimp to me, but I suppose he was a product of his time.
I will say that I found the story lagged a bit when the title character wasn't present; there's a fair amount of internal monologue, etc.
Recommended for those interested in not-so-modern British stories.
Regarding the audio quality: Elfer does a good job with the characters, but has a wildly frustrating habit of reading the internal stuff and text in a Very Soft Voice, while abruptly switching to a louder voice for dialogue.
Delightful jeu d'esprit new from the Bloomsbury Group! Norman Huntley is an organist in a small cathedral town who finds that his imaginative response to the "spur of the moment" have taken a frightening turn when he and his friend Henry become the unwitting creators of a woman named Miss Hargreaves, first in jocular conversation, then in the flesh. But who is the haunter and who is the haunted? Miss Hargreaves is everywhere! and Norman realizes that he no longer has control of the situation. A novel with endearing characters, hilarious dialogue, improbable probability, and magic!
A very funny book.Be careful what you wish for as it may come true.
Two young men, Norman and Henry, lead fairly uneventful lives in the Thames Valley cathedral city of Cornford.
When, after many adventures with Miss Hargreaves, Norman sends her away a second time, it seems that their story has ended at last.
So imagine the sense of powerlessness and unease when it isn’t merely a character in a story taking on a life of its own, but an apparently real flesh-and-blood person, notwithstanding that it is one sprung from the half-shell of the mind!Glen Cavaliero’s Introduction gives a valuable overview of Frank Baker’s life and work, and many insights, as well as putting Miss Hargreaves into its context.
Bored to tears, Norman makes a vague remark about knowing one of the Reverend's old friends - Henry leaps on to the point as well and within only a few minutes, they have invented the character of Miss Hargreaves, niece to the Duke of Grosvenor, owner of small dog Sarah and cockatoo Dr Pepusch, a marvelous creature of ninety who travels at all times with her harp and hip bath.
"When, on the spur of a moment, Norman Huntley and his friend Henry invent an eighty-three-year-old woman called Miss Hargreaves, they are inspired to mail a letter to their new fictional friend.
On the spur of the moment, Norman says he has a shared acquaintance with the parish's old vicar - and that acquaintance is one Miss Hargreaves.
Once this extraordinary woman has entered your life, you'll never want her to leave."Sometimes I wonder if I've read the same book as everyone else did.
It started out as great fun: Miss Hargreaves arrives in Cornfold in answer to Norman's letter and the fun begins.
"A new library of books from the early twentieth century chosen by readers for readers." Norman, a young man with a vivid imagination, is prone to making up wild stories "on the Spur of the Moment" whe he is in a tight spot.
She's got a stout character and she's funny and although she can be overbearing and difficult, she does sense in some way that she's not like other people.The only thing I didn't like about the book was that if Norman can change things just be making stuff up, why doesn't he?
The silly, harmless, game turns out not to be such, when she arrives on their doorstep, in Buckinghamshire, exactly as he imagined her.Tone: Withdrawn, Sinister, MelancholySetting: England, Buckinghamshire, Ireland, Lusk, Clastrophobic, darkCharacters: Quirky, Eccentric, Conceited Language: First Person, Out-dated, AntiquatedFirst Line: "'Miss Hargreaves-' I murmured."I read a review of this title in Publisher's Weekly and, despite my normal aversion to anything written before 1980 (too much time spent analyzing literature as an English major), I was intrigued by the story.
Along with the narrator and the many people who read this novel seventy years ago, I fell in love with Miss Hargreaves.
Until I read this book, madness was the one side effect of creating people that I could imagine.
Yet, as humorous as this book could be, at times it was downright freaky (there was one night I remember thinking I saw Miss Hargreaves in the kitchen - I remember thinking, What if she plays her harp and wakes up the whole household?
I don't know if Baker meant it as such, but this book could be read as a cautionary tale for people with overactive imaginations.But there are also moments in the book where Norman can't help but feel some pride in his creation and this hinders his ability to get rid of her.
Anytime Miss Hargreaves disappeared from the storyline, I became a little bored.
(No other kind of story except an English one, I think, could deal so lethally in these terms.)This was written in 1940 - magical realism before magical realism was cool.
The purpose behind it was, as advertised, to rediscover authors now virtually forgotten but worthy of being remembered for the stories they tell.
(He is the author behind The Birds, a novel which is the apparently coincidental predecessor to Hitchcock's movie of the same name and similar premise.) Can't wait to pursue the others I've had my sights on in this collection.
He even goes so far as to write her a letter care of a hotel in Hereford.
Hilarity ensues.The premise of this book reminded me of a favorite Twilight Zone episode with Keenan Wynn titled “A World of His Own” about a writer who is able to literally bring his characters to life with his descriptive powers.
However, what was charming in a ½ hour TV anthology becomes grating in a 300 page book.
Miss Hargreaves is a joke that goes on too long and aside from Norman’s lovably dotty father (who can never get Miss Hargreaves name right), the characters are all vaguely unpleasant and mean spirited.
I LOVED the premise of this book: two friends start lying in a church, make-up a story about an eccentric woman, and then actually write her and invite her for a visit.
Imagine their surprise when she actually turns up!
Hilarity ensues – right?
Right?
Parts of the book are funny, even poignant -- and for the most part it’s well written.
But enough to cover over 300 pages.
It’s rather snobbish, misogynistic, ageist, and even anti-Irish.
Everyone seems to just hate this woman, or find her annoying; and while she has some quirks, I just didn’t get it.
Odd. But absolutely wonderfully so!
This amazing Pygmalion of a story recounts the remarkable Spur of a Moment creation of a Miss Hargreaves by Norman and Henry (“The correct pronunciation of her name is, of course, ‘Hargrayves’.
Astonishing as it must seem, there exist people who refer to her as Miss ‘Hargreeves’.
Doubtless they belong to the ranks of those who ‘Macleen’ their teeth”).
A letter posted to this Spur of a Moment results in a very real (of sorts) Miss Hargreaves turning up in town for an extended visit.
Funny, melancholy, slightly sinister, music, a wonderfully scatterbrain father called Cornelius, and swans...
3.5 stars.
Clever plot.
Has a Jeeves and Wooster feel to it where young men get into a mess and have to figure their way out of it.
The father was my favorite character.
He seems like a bumbling fool until he utters something that is so deep and reveals to point of the book.
It needed to be 50 pages shorter.
I got lost a little in some vocabulary especially when it came to describing the cathedral where the main character is an organist...matins, gates, thrones, canons...
The book was written in 1940 in England.

Whimsical early 20th century British novel about a man who invents an 83 year old woman - the eponymous Miss Hargreaves - who then comes to life and wreaks havoc with his simple town life.I think I could have liked this so much better if I liked the characters at all, but I found them aggravating and unsympathetic. The story was also a little too slow for me. I am, however, eager to read the other books that come out of this imprint.
Miss Hargreaves was such a character and her piquant and often outrageous charm was wasted in this book. In fact I was so annoyed that I had to sit and think out an alternate storyline so I could have peace. The first third of the book was the best and I laughed out loud several times, leading me to hope for a jolly romp of a book in the P.G. Wodehouse vein. Unfortunately Miss Hargreaves was done in by her cynical times - I'm sure that was the point - but what a waste and an unsatisfying story.
