https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2715.Salt
Until the first invention by a Paris cook, Nicolas Appert, the “Father of Canning,” most food preservation was salt.
Cold preservation and Clarence Birdseye, founder of the frozen food industry were not far behind.
The last line of an accompanying poem reads, “With salting, front and back, At last strong natures they will not lack.” Bibliothèque NationaleFrom early history the West African silent barter reported by Herodotus and the ancient salt well of Shaanxi and Sichuan to the 1901 salt dome drilling of Spindletop which redefined the terms drill rig and well to mean oil, not salt.
Kurlansky uses his attention to detail and ability to entertain the curious reader in this book that explores much of how salt came to be found on most tables around the world, as well as some of the key customs and traditions that have lasted for centuries, if not millennia.
I challenge anyone who has the time to step outside the box and see if it’s to your taste.It is worth mentioning that, while Kurlansky does make mention of many forms of salt through the narrative, the significant portion of the book relates to sodium chloride (NaCl), common table salt.
The word salt in many different languages.
This was about as interesting as reading the long list of all the ingredients in a box of Twinkies where you can't pronounce half of them, have never heard of the rest and are only reading it because there isn't anything else to read.
That said, the book Twinkie, Deconstructed: My Journey to Discover How the Ingredients Found in Processed Foods Are Grown, Mined (Yes, Mined), and Manipulated Into What America Eats was actually very interesting.
If Steve Ettlinger could make that interesting, I don't see why Kurlansky failed so utterly with Salt.

This book changed my life. I picked it up because fiction novels were all looking the same to me, and because it was thick enough to last the long train ride from Dusseldorf to Maastricht. School textbooks were the only non-fiction I'd ever read, and they had not prepared me for the vibrant and engaging writing found in Salt. Since reading this book I have become a devoted fan of non-fiction writing, which has exposed me to a whole new world of literature.
I'm not entirely sure why this book is so popular and so widely read, since it strikes me as simply a series of stories by Mark Kurlansky that quickly settle into the same basic mantra, which is: 1) Here is this culture; 2) Like the twenty other cultures I have just introduced to you, salt was also important to this culture; 3) These are the ways they gathered salt; 4) Here is a random sprinkling of recipes involving salt.
The one thing about the book that was interesting was how it printed all these old school recipes involving salt, salting and brining.
The material here is thorough and often fascinating, but you must have a strong interest in history if you hope to get through it.
Had I tried to read it in print rather than listening to the audio book, I may not have stayed with it.
The quality and style of presentation in the book is similar to Bill Bryson's, but without the humor.
It's hard to believe this was written by the same guy that put together that goofy book made up of nothing but questions.
Instead, Kurlansky has written a lively book that moves about with rapidity and brio, never bogging down in any area.While at times the author seems to suggest a little too freely that salt was the main ingredient in important historical revolutions (the American, the French, Ghandi’s in India), he does at least add this element so lacking in most other stories.
The legal penalty for eating meat on Friday in England was hanging and this law stood on the books until King Henry VIII broke with the Catholic Church.In the American Revolution, salt would come to play am important role.
Kurlansky clearly has searched complete encyclopaedias on the word 'salt' and has poured it all down in this book, with no connecting narrative or analysis.
And okay, you do get the impression that salt has played a very important role throughout history, and even all around the world, but in the end you're stuck with a dizzying amount of (unreliable) facts.
Kurlansky even has the annoying habit of adding all kinds of other non-salt-related information; unfortunately for him, he regularly makes big mistakes and he repeats himself constantly.
This is certainly not the way that World History should go.
I very much enjoyed this book on world history, roled like a ball of yarn around the role salt played in this history.
This was interesting becuase other books stress the role of the price of bread rather than these salt taxes.
Other people may be interested in the role salt played in the American Revoltion, Morton Salt Company, German and Austrian salt mines, how a lack of Scandinavian salt influenced the Vikings, hydraulic drilling and gas deposits or the numerous old recipes provided (the original ketchup, tomato ketchup, the difference betwwen the Swedish herring surströmming versus sill).
While certainly an interesting and often entertaining read, with many historic details I had never heard before, this book is seriously flawed in several ways.It has a bibliography, but no footnotes or endnotes.
But without detailed endnotes (which a book of this sort really ought to have), I would have to guess which of the many books in the bibliography is the source of any given fact or factoid.
Or perhaps it's time for a (grossly oversimplified and sometimes flat-out wrong) chemistry lesson?
It never quite decides.
Nor can it decide what its theme or focus should be.
Certainly not chemistry.
I don't know if it was because I had just finished a textbook size of a book that was purely about science (A Short History of Nearly Everything) and was in major fiction withdrawal, or the fact that this book was breathtakingly boring, but I could literally not read more than 15 pages before I actually started to drift off into a deep slumber.
For the reader to actually not want to learn anything further about something that kinda seemed interesting at the time.
I was really excited to read Salt: A World History because I thought it would be an unique experience to read about a topic that most people take for granted.
I didn't think it possible to have someone talk about salt for 13 hours and 43 minutes but it was.The book begins with facts about salt and the sharing of some of the salt industry’s 14,000 uses for salt.
I did not realize the strategic importance of salt, especially during the Civil War. My favorite passage from the book was actually a quote from General William Tecumseh Sherman in August 1862.
He stated, “Salt is eminently contraband because of its use in curing meats without which armies cannot be subsisted.” In all my readings of U.S. history and the Civil War, I've never come across a discussion of the importance of salt.
How did you organize this book?
Does each section have a main concept or idea?
Let's read through some of these paragraphs together and you can tell me where you think something might be tangential to the main idea.This book meanders.
One memorable example of this: I read a paragraph about the Egyptians making salt that, in the middle, incorporated a sentence about their trade with the Phoenicians, and then the next sentences finished the explanation salt making.
Some might like their nonfiction to take the scenic route to every idea; I discovered through this book that I am not one of those people.
I hate to give this a 3/5 I really do.
I cannot tell you how many times I picked up and put down this book in stores across the nation....
maybe that should have been my sign.Don't boo me, but this was dry.
Also, I dont know how I would personally fix this, but the layout of the book seemed to need changed.
It was largely geographically based, so then large sections felt very redundant, afterall there is not so much difference between salting anchovies, or cod, or herring.
Perhaps if the sections had been: preservation, tax, wars....
I think this book should have been called Salt: It's Dry. I'm about 25% through it and I'm throwing in the towel (and possibly tossing salt over my shoulder for luck). There was just nothing about the writing or the information presented that was even mildly interesting. Moving on...
450 pages is a lot of salt. Though interesting by the end I was very ready to be done with it.
The history of salt is super interesting, and I learned a lot of amazing facts about human history from reading this book, BUT... the editing was pretty bad. I mean, it has to be pretty bad for you to actually notice that a book is really poorly written. Chapters would end out of nowhere, there were tons of non-sequiturs, etc. It got progressively worse as I got through the book- and then towards the end it became an advertisement for Mortons Salt. I'd recommend this book from a library, but not for purchase.
For a guy who literally looks like the Dos Equis man, Mark Kurlansky has managed to find some of the least interesting subject matter I could imagine and turn them into full histories.
A history of the Basques sounds like it has some potential.My point is: Kurlansky seems to look around for the driest subjects and then to begin to research the heck out of it.
And yes, he really does look like the Dos Equis man.
It doesn't detract from the value of the information, but Salt: A World History does make for an occasional dry and eclectic read.
I would want to stop reading then would come to a part about either a place I've visited or a know about from some reason or other, and then I'd be drawn back into the book.
That being said, I'll admit I was very interested in the book Mauve, which was about organic chemistry.
Anyway, if you want to learn lots of facts about salt, read about place all around the world, learn about commerce, industry and rebellion, this is the book for you.
Just know that there's a lot that you'll probably skim over - like the many recipes from antiquity for food preparations using salt.
I'm inclined to believe that many people might turn away from this book based on that fact, but I found it to be chalked full of so many interesting facts from some of the earliest history.I found all the information presented in the book a little overwhelming at times and I do believe I would have given it 5 stars had I read it more slowly and allowed the information to settle between reads.
I recommend it to anyone who likes cooking, history or cataloging interesting little facts to spew at later dates.
the author read everything there is to read about salt. then he relentlessly put every bit of it in this book. you will wish for the end waay before you get there, i promise.
Previously read Sept 2003 - Checked this out from the library on the recommendation of Carla IreneThe title is pretty self-explanatory: the book discusses how salt was accessed, processed, sold and used from ancient times through today.
I learned quite a bit about Italian and Chinese history & culture that I didn't know before - and I never realized that salt was one of the main reasons for India's revolt against England.
I would recommend this book to anyone who is interested in an overview of history (with a twist) and plan to read more books by Mr. Kurlansky.
Now we find ourselves entering into a similar scenario with the crippling price of gasoline.
The present rise in the cost of gas isn't because of taxes entirely, although they do play a significant role in certain states such as California.
Our current predicament with fuel prices can't be laid at the feet of government because the government is not in control, big business is.
What really rises to the surface in book like this is the same old ancient story: yet another example of those in power screw those who aren't to the wall.
What I learned:*Everybody loves salt fish*Chinese invention stories war with European invention stories - WHO WILL WIN?!*The planets resources -salt, sugar, oil- inspire ruthlessness in certain types of humans - the urge to Pokémon-collect-them-all is deep seated and endless*It's a lot easier to see mistakes and bad behavior via birds eye view of history *Write down the mundane stuff and leave it around for historians to find, otherwise expect to be forgotten once you're gone*Eccentric behavior pays dividends *Deliciousness travels in all directions, and a lot of it emanates from Asia & Italy*SALT SALT SALT SALT*FISH FISH FISH FISH*It seems to remain ok for historians to talk about human slavery like it's just this thing that, y'know, happens on the way to riches.
Today they're like the middle class society poster child*So ....
Of course it's my own fault for imagining a book this long about salt could be engaging.
There were fights centuries ago in England when people's land started caving in when salt brine was extracted from subterranean levels.
An excellent example is Gandhi and the Salt Marsh protests in 1930 which led to protests again British rule, but was started over battles over the rights to collect salt.http://www.history.com/topics/salt-marchThis is a book that would appeal to some history buffs as well as those interested in who has the right to exploit natural resources.
Lots of interesting history in this book but just too much of it.
Sure, human population didn't really take off until we started staying put in one place and domesticating animals and crops, but what do you think preserved those food staples?
Salt didn't just play a role with how we preserve food, but entire wars and civilizations rose and fell due (in part) to their hold on salt.
Venice became a huge European powerhouse in the middle ages because of their saltworks, and I learned that salt even played a part in the American Civil War (all the good salt production was in the north, so the south had to ship it in).
Sure, Mr. Kurlansky might have overly emphasized salt's role on occasion, but that didn't detract from the book one iota.
This is my most-favorite non-fiction book. I find it fascinating and enjoy something new every time I read or listen to it.
Lots of really interesting information, but so, so, so dry. So many recipes... I don't really need to know all the different ways people first created fish sauce, maybe just tell me the important ones. Might try this one in audiobook form at a different time.
While I do think that the stories could've been better tied together, the book presented salt in a new way for me. Plus, the old-school recipes were really interesting, if a little gross.
