https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/648958.Follow_My_Leader
Much of the presented information on blindness and what Jimmy needs to struggle through and learn in order to become self-reliant and able to function on his own without too much (without constant) exterior support is as relevant now as it was in 1957, and especially the minute analysis of how Jimmy and his guide dog Leader become a proverbial well-oiled team are both interesting and surprisingly similar to today (although it should be noted that some of Jimmy's trials and tribulations are indeed a bit dated, such as the fact that Leader was not originally allowed to enter Jimmy's school, something that would NOT even be considered now, something that would in fact be considered as totally unacceptable in today's world, but especially in Europe, the United States, Canada, Australia, in other words, the so-called First World).That all being said and while I generally both enjoy and much appreciate James B.
I LOVED this book when I was a kid.
It was a real opener for a young child about the world of the vision-impaired, and just an involving and inspiring story of what it takes to succeed despite terrible things in your (or in this case, Jimmy's) life.
I think kids should read more books that make them think what it's like to be in someone else's shoes.
I will definitely read this book to my kids someday.
(I did find it funny, even then, that the main character's name was Jimmy Carter.
doesn't detract from the story, though.)
The book is a tail of a young man (a boy) who louses his sight though the misadventures of youth (one I've seen a few time in the area of town I live in around the victoria day long weekend) playing with items which are meant for adults and not children and waking up alive with with ones life changed for life.
The tail of how he goes about getting "Leader" lead me to working with guide dogs myself at a younger age (and as an adult being willing to be a foster parent to future service dogs).
I would recommend this book to all school age children to read, and to many adults as well.
This was one of those books I read as a kid that really stuck with me.
I thought it would be fun to re-read it and see if it was just a "kid thing" or if it could stand the test of time...and it REALLY did!
What a wonderful heartwarming story of how a young boy who faces tragedy works hard to re-learn how to live life to its fullest.
I wanted to find out a little more about the author of this inspiring book and in my search found another great story.
Be patient...the link takes a little bit of time to load but it is worth the wait!
Garfield Story
I really enjoyed this book.
It was a fast and kind of easy read, but it was sweet.
It is about a boy who goes blind and the struggles he has.
He gets a guide-dog.
I hav to say that I love dogs and I have studied them I lot.
I've even considered training guide-dogs.
This book helped me understand the blind more.
I have a very good friend who was born blind.
He is really cool, but when I first met him I was really nervous I was going to affend him.
I can relate to Jimmy's friends.
Guide-dogs are amazing!
When I saw that it had been re-printed once again, I decided that I wanted to see what about the book had such an impact at that age so I re-read it.
In retrospect, it is a book that is best read as a child preferably near the age of the brother (11 yrs) and sister (9 yrs) characters in the book (as I was).
---all such questions that could affect an impressionable child are addressed in the book in a positive manner.
Still a good book, like an old friend it reminds you of the important things in life but doesn't reveal new territory to an adult mind.
This book made a huge impression on me as a kid, so much so, that I remember the plot quite clearly, but couldn't remember the title (nor the author, of course), but the Great God Google was able to divine it. I might have to get a copy of it to read with my son. I wonder if it will hold up?
Jimmy learns Braille and how to work with a seeing eye dog. I was transfixed.
Such a sweet and adorable story that's great for all ages.
✭✭✭½
This book is really good for people who like dramatic stories and who are interested in what blind people's lives are like.
This story takes us through his mourning and anger, his climb toward independence, his ability to forgive, and his bond with Leader, his guide dog.The book scared me as a kid because the fireworks incident was a bit gritty and visceral, but I think I prefer that to having the whole experience toned down for the reader's comfort.
He eventually gets to go to a training center with other newly blind kids, where he trains with his new dog and establishes some mentor relationships and friendships.
That element of forgiveness without ignoring the hurt, along with the insight into the training for newly blind people, made this a really valuable story for kids.
I read this book over and over in elementary school!
What kid who read it didn't?
Not only does this book go into great detail about the everyday things that Jimmy must relearn, but then it presents the awesome challenge of a seeing eye dog!
Who wouldn't love to have a seeing eye dog, right?
The only flaw in this book is that Leader is a lame name.
But I hope it's still in print, because I think it's an excellent book to help kids understand the challenges faced by the blind, and to learn about seeing eye dogs!
I can't walk on nothing.
Take me back." Jimmy carter is an 11 year old boy who wanted to be a professional baseball player, but became blind after a kid who was his friend, Mike threw a firecracker at him during scouts.
"Jimmy threw his arms up and tried to duck, but it was too late.
How to dress up, eat, find his way around the house, walk, and write with new letters called Braille.
Jimmy gets a guide dog named Sirius.(he later changes it to leader) I first read this book in fourth grade.
Will he be friends with mike?
Novel received courtesy of Author's daughterWhen Liz Lazarus sent me a copy of her novel to review, she thoughtfully sent a copy of her father's book, "Follow My Leader".
The speech, dress and customs in the book were very much from the 1950's.
While reading, I felt like I was a little girl again because this book reminded me of things I read while growing up in the 70's.
"Follow My Leader" is the story of Jimmy coming to terms with losing his sight and of him getting a guide dog.
I'm not sure that kids of the 2010's would appreciate this book.
This book is about a boy who is blinded by a firecracker and then gets a seeing eye dog. As a kid, this book both fascinated and frightened me, because I loved to learn how blind people crossed the street, or picked out matching outfits. But I was also very afraid of becoming blind, especially after a short-lived attempt to teach myself braille. I will always love this book, though, because it was a gift from my mom, who read it herself as a girl.
This book is highly recommended! Thoughtfully and realistically written, it helps the reader understand the struggles and accomplishments of someone who is learning how to live with a handicap, personalizing the experience for us. The development of the relationship between the seeing-eye dog and his person is especially interesting and touching.
I loved this book as a child. I too pretended that I was blind. I found a copy of this book at a tag sale and then read it to my 4th grade classes. This is one of those books that you never forget and think about a lot.
And another book about a blind kid that I loved as a child. Just to make a theme of it.
YES YES YES
She's a widow with two school-aged children--how else is she going to support the family?" Given the age of the book, I appreciate the working mother, the smarty-pants little sister, the aunt living nearby, the woman from the State Agency for the Blind.....and so on.Of course the protagonist appears to learn Braille at an enviable rate--the author had to compact all the issues facing the newly blind protagonist in a chapter or two.
It's a book for middle-school readers.With all its flaws, I'm still going to give it five stars because I appreciate the social context.
(Thank goodness!) This is a story of adjustment for Jimmy and though Sirius (or "Leader" as Jimmy changes his name to) is an important part of the story and there is a moment of drama, they both live through this!
Feels a lot like an original Bobsey Twins, Boxcar Children or classic Nancy Drew in time period and writing style, while also being very informative on ways people who are blind have to adjust their lives and ways people who are sighted can help them.
It is the interesting story of a young boy who loses his sight in an accident and the subsequent trials and tribulations he experiences as he learns to deal with his new life as a blind person.
And it is worth noting that the author is also blind, though he lost his sight later in life.
It is interesting and informative in addition to being a great story.
Good old Scholastic and Weekly Reader.
This is one of my childhood books, and one that I can't seem to forget no matter how many years have passed.
He spends some time stubbornly refusing to learn to take care of himself, but when given the opportunity to have a guide dog, his attitude changes for the better.
The dog, originally named Sirius, becomes his gateway to the world.
He changes the dog's name to Leader, because the name Sirius means follower, and he, Jimmy, would be the one to follow wherever his good companion leads.
I would recommend this book to readers aged 7-12.
I thought it sounded a bit depressing, but my 8 year old picked it.
Maybe because at the time it was around the 4th of July and the main character gets blinded in a firework accident.
I couldn't imagine sending a child on a 400 mile bus ride or plane trip alone much less a blind child.
They loved the parts about the seeing eye dog and navigating the world blind.
My 8 year old still likes to talk about where each of her food items are on the clock at the dinner table.
I really liked the conflict resolution and forgiveness.
This is the second time I have read this book.
The first time I read it to my two older children and we all loved it.
The second time I read this to my 8 year old son Camden who is in the 3rd grade.
It has been a few years since I have r as it, and it was as enjoyable the second time as it was the first!
This book teaches students some great character principals.
My son and I had a great discussion about this after reading the book.
This is both entertaining and thought provoking as well as a great character training!

I was out to dinner with friends on Friday night and we got to talking about early reading experiences that galvanized our present-day love of reading. I remembered reading this book at a very young age - probably about 7. (It was published the year I was born.) I loved it. Found it on my brother's bookshelf all those years ago and couldn't put it down. Oh, and I forgot to mention - it also gave me a lifelong, healthy respect for firecrackers. Stay back!
I read this book when I was 12 years old. The story moved me to where I wanted to find out more about blindness and guide dogs. I remember one scene where the character was trying to find out why his dog was growling at certain times. It made me mad for the character and told me a little about other people's cruelty. I would recommend this book for fifth graders all the way up to High School especially those who may struggle with reading. It is a good book with no questionable language.
I read this book as a child. It was how I learned about blind people (e.g. people with seeing disabilities), guide dogs, white canes, and Braille. Although it is probably now archaic, it taught about the danger of using firecrackers which would blind you as well as the training of guide dogs. I probably read this book over and over...
