https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50727.Don_t_Tell_Alfred
Remember thethingie about U & Non-U words: Pardon?
(Non) What?
This drolleryabout diplomacy, inspired by her living in Paris, spoons up like a creamy dessert as the UK ambassador's wife dissesthe bores & le beau monde.
Another Mitfordiana: 'Precocious as it may have been, at six months old I was still living w my parents.' When an American defector (to Russia) attracts a Parisian crowd: 'It can only be some dreary film star.
~~ There are 80 embassies in Paris : 'Are there so many countries in the world?'--'Of course not,' she's told.
They make you long for an enemy.' Mad Mitfordiana.
This is the third Nancy Mitford I have read, and unfortunately I did not enjoy it as much as the first two.
Fanny has to learn the role of Ambassadress and familiarize herself with all the new faces.
Poor Fanny's job is not made easy as the former ambassadress locks herself into one of the suites and refuses to budge.
I did enjoy this novel and there is still the usual sharp Mitford wit prevalent on every page but what disappointed me was the political aspect to the novel, although not heavily talked about, it was still enough to put me off giving it 5 stars.
I love Nancy Mitford and I loved this novel.
It may not quite have the comic punch that The Pursuit of Love and Love in a Cold climate do - but it is often very funny, and best of all reunites us with some of those beloved characters from her other books.
When Alfred is made Ambassador to Paris, Fanny's cosy Oxford life changes to one of diplomacy, receptions, cocktail parties, and dodging the gutter press.
She hires a cousin of hers Northey as her social secretary - an hilarious (and typical Mitford) character and definitely the best part of the book.
The wife of the previous Ambassador (Lady Leone) is none too pleased at having to vacate the kind of life to which she had become accustomed and enjoyed for the previous 5 years.
There are other colorful characters in this novel (2 of whom, Charles-Edouard de Valhubert and his English wife Grace, we last saw occupy center stage in “The Blessing”) who provide its rich and comedic flavor.
Notwithstanding all that, I didn’t enjoy reading “Don’t Tell Alfred” as much as I did “The Blessing.” This review is not to suggest that the former is not a good book.
But just as sometimes we forgive people a lot because of their charm and kindness, so I'll forgive this book because of that particular Mitford quality of happy likeability.
While I know nothing about the experience of being an hon in pursuit of love, or of dealing with an errant but entrancing French husband, I can very much identify with Fanny's experiences of trying to deal with a busy house and four children, none of whom is following the path she would have chosen for them.
The big charmer of this book is beautiful, unscrupulous, enchanting, witty Northey whom Fanny regards with instant affection and describes with love.
Don't Tell Alfred is the third book in Nancy Mitford's series that began with The Pursuit of Love and Love in a Cold Climate.
The Pursuit of Love and Love in a Cold Climate dealt with the 'bright young things' of the inter-war years of the 20s and 30s, satirising high society manners and concerned with the loves and foibles of upper class English families.
The plot wanders somewhat, and Fanny is a rather insipid heroine, but the book was enjoyable enough to keep me reading.Unfortunately, I found it impossible to read Don't Tell Alfred without comparing it to the first two novels.
The sense of sharp melancholy and bitter humor that infected The Pursuit of Love and Love In A Cold ClimatDon't Tell Alfred.
Don't Tell Alfred has a definitely feel of farce, much more episodic.
But I just couldn't shake the feeling that Don't Tell Alfred was like dripping drops of various colors into a whirlpool; taken separately, each drop was beautiful, but mixed up together, pretty dull at the end.
Wacky antics ensue when she and her newly knighted husband Alfred move into the embassy in Paris.I don’t doubt that Mitford’s contemporaries found this book entertaining, but I didn’t like it nearly as well as the first two books in this loose trilogy.
It’s amusing in a few places - particularly I like Fanny and Alfred’s careful non-interference policy concerning their sons, who all seem to have lost their minds.
I suspect much of the humor was lost on me as I missed some of the contemporary references.It's worth a read as a followup to the other books.
To have Fanny at the center, rather than as the narrator, was fantastic! Poor Fanny, dealing with scandal after scandal, and the misadventures of her children - yet it was very entertaining for me!One note, This book should be read after Pursuit of Love, Love In A Cold Climate, and The Blessing, because Mitford expects you to know a lot of characters and their/their family's histories. I can imagine that there would be confusion if the reader hadn't read the previous books first.
Fanny's wrestlings with the former ambassador's wife, who digs in, passively-aggressive occupying a wing of the residence, and with her errant sons, especially the Zen-quoting David who indefinitely occupies the more elegant of the spare rooms, were very, very funny.
Eccessivamente intriso di riferimenti a vicende storico-politiche anglofrancesi.Sebbene a tratti spassoso, in particolare rispetto alle disavventure della nipote/segretaria Northey, ho trovato questo libro di qualità nettamente inferiore rispetto a L’amore in un clima freddo.
It may be due to her narrator, Fanny, who had been very much on the sidelines in the other two novels finally taking central stage.
There is something of a French farce about the novel, which had me smiling and laughing while I was reading it.
I especially loved how she continually takes the piss out of The Daily Mail (renamed of course for the novel).
Fanny and a French companion talk during a country drive and they reflect upon the world they were born into and how the two World Wars had changed civilisation irrevocably but that this was something lost upon the new generation.
La trama è come sempre più o meno inesistente e si basa sul trasferimento come ambasciatore a Parigi di Alfred, il marito di Fanny, la narratrice dei primi due romanzi che qui diventa protagonista.
Nonostante questo Fanny non brilla per originalità, a differenza di tutti gli altri personaggi, che creano terribili scompigli che devono essere tenuti nascosti ad Alfred, già impegnato di suo (da qui il titolo, ovviamente).
La consueta ironia è un po' smorzata dal carattere piuttosto sotto tono di Fanny, caratteristica messa opportunamente in luce dalla prima gaffe (ovvero il non essere riusciti a mandare via dall'ambasciata la precedente moglie di ambasciatore, che intrattiene tutta Parigi nei suoi appartamenti, noncurante del fatto che il mandato del marito è terminato.
Don't Tell Alfred follows the middle aged Fanny in Paris following her husband's appointment as the British ambassador to France.The book doesn't retain some of the charm of Mitford's other novels, mainly because it revolves around life in Paris.
The difficulties inherent in governing France post-WWII are conveyed as are the changing attitudes of youth that both shocked and confused parents during this period.Some of the characters from Mitford's other novels make appearances - such as the charming Uncle Davey and the irascible Uncle Matthew (although much subdued).
Not the best in the trilogy, but still some genuinely funny moments - my favourite was Uncle Matthew showing up in the taxi.
I feel like this quote from Caroline O'Donoghue really nails what's wrong with it though:My favourite terrible thing about Nancy is that she has no idea how straight, non-insane men act.
She doesn't know any, or if she does, she just ignores him until she can find the nearest sister or gay man to talk to.
If you’ve read her books you’ll know that the protagonist Fanny gets married to Alfred, and Nancy has no idea how to write Alfred or their marriage.
The first two books in this wonderful series were written in the 1940s and the third in 1951.
This last story of the Radlett family was written in 1960.
How very sad because she may have had more stories to write about the Radletts (loosely based on her own eccentrically delightful family) and the critics deprived us the joy of reading more.
I am certainly sorry to end this series.
I have no idea why the critics were so harsh -- perhaps by 1960 they no longer appreciated her funny, ironic, and charmingly irreverent style.
I continue to find her writing and her stories absolutely delicious.
This book – the final part of Nancy Mitford’s trilogy centering on narrator Fanny and her assorted friends and relatives – is not good.
I could list why this book fails (I have a list of five primary reasons – and yes, I did actually take notes on why this book didn’t work), but it mostly makes me sad.
Don’t Tell Alfred hints at the sparkle and intelligence Ms. Mitford displayed in her earlier works, but in a way that reminded me of Norma Desmond from Sunset Blvd.
Read the first two books in the trilogy and pretend it’s a duology.
I didn't enjoy this quite as much as The Pursuit of Love and Love in a Cold Climate, although many of the characters are still the same this seems a lot more farcical, particularly with the exploits of the various offspring and 'Grandad' etc.
However I did enjoy the background discussions around the "Europe" question, especially with what's going on today.
And while the grown up children were all terribly annoying, I did think they were an interesting way of showing how the old class system was becoming less important and how much popular culture seemed to be shifting - the cult of youth, and all that.

Nancy Mitford is quintessential British literature - and this book, even if it's not on the level of the wonderful The Pursuit of Love, and its sequel Love In a Cold Climate (from which it borrows some essential characters), is a delightful read.
The tale of a the new ambassador of Great Britain and his wife in wicked Paris is very witty, very funny, written with style, glamourous yet amusingly cruel, and quite right on the target - Mitford's sharp views on the French or on her fellow countrymen are as hilarious as they are true.
Mitford's intelligence and humor are irresistible.
I liked this a little better than the other Nancy Mitford I've read.
The humor is mostly good, and is substantially less reliant on family/social in-jokes as far as I can tell.
Still, the main characters are drawn directly from those autobio/fiction works, and it's not a far stretch to put Mitford in the narrator's seat.
The ending was less than satisfying as well.
Really, none of her endings have been anything but sudden and odd so far.
I'd put this book in the category "understated 60s Franco-British farce;" if that's your idea of a good time, you may find it worth a look.
I'm demonstrably too old to contribute to Goodreads, and here's part of the demonstration: Nancy Mitford's Don't Tell Alfred is terribly funny novel which pokes insightful fun at politics, parenting and the early manifestations of phenomena like Beatlemania. True, it's better if you've read Mitford's semi-autobiographical The Pursuit of Love and Love in a Cold Climate and if you've experienced the late 50's, but Don't Tell Alfred is a stand-alone comedy of manners which transcends its own time. Plus ça change ...Unreservedly recommended - and read Pursuit and Climate too, while you're at it.
I am an admitted "Mitfordophile", perhaps due to having an extremely unique family. I have always loved the aplomb with which her characters navigate through life and Don't Tell Alfred includes some of her most amusing eccentrics. Set in Paris post WWII, Fanny dominates the plot line with Uncle Davey and Uncle Matthew making memorable appearances.(you will remember them from both The Pursuit of Love and Love in a Cold Climate). While not the strongest in the trilogy, I have to admit that I loved every minute of it.
Eh. Interesting, maybe. But somewhere in the 30 or so year gap between the last "autobiographical novel" (one character clearly is a stand-in for Nancy's own Polish lover) the author had her sense of humor gland replaced by a more than a bit nasty irony gland. Oh, and she hates America too (doubtlessly because of her Communist -- and funeral-home exposing -- sister, who moved to California).
This is set entirely in the 1960's and mainly in the French embassy. Its a brilliantly funny story, although it is a set in a world that is changing very rapidly, and you get the feel of that coming through in the book.Has some very funny scenes that still make me laugh out loud everytime I read them.
Uncle Matthew loving cocktail parties and he WILLINGLY went to France!?!
I'm sure there are more, but I can't think through all the eliptical carnage.Besides changing every personality trait of the characters I loved, Nancy added too many new characters I couldn't care about at all, let alone distinguish one from the other.
I'm sorry Nancy, just because you where in love with a Frenchman who worked for de Gaulle, doesn't mean that instantly all his boring politics and life become interesting to the rest of us.
hilariously funny ..." Mitford daringly and deftly juggles foibles of the English, French, Americans, and teenagers in the context of international diplomacy and family dynamics.
Written from the point of view of Fanny, Alfred's wife, the novel recounts ridiculous scenarios during Alfred's first year as English ambassador to France in mid-twentieth century Paris.
These scenarios are laugh-out-loud funny, partly because they are outrageous, partly because they portray human motives and dilemmas so truthfully.
The title, Don't Tell Alfred, comes from many characters' spoken instincts to not bother Alfred with silly goings-on when he was carrying out serious duties of an ambassador.
I'm sure this was a scintillating roman a clef back in the day, but I neither know these people nor really could be made to care. Nancy Mitford was an acclaimed author of her time but this novel is very much of a certain period. While sometimes that can be charming, I didn't find it so. The characterizations were a little broad at times.I didn't quite finish it because - why? I read enough to feel I can claim to have read it for my purposes.I should add I am currently having a fascination with all things Mitford girls.
I should preface this review by saying that I read this book in order to distract myself from a terrible headache with something light, and it’s possible that this adversely affected my reaction. That said, my impression was of a rather unfunny and heavy-footed satire with a strong streak of kids-get-off-my-lawn-itis and occasional interjections of racism. Plus, parts of it didn’t really make sense. A far cry from “The Pursuit of Love” and “Love in a Cold Climate”, alas.
Not anywhere close to perfectly frothy and delightful as Pursuit and Cold Climate, but after third reading, not as terrible as I'd thought upon first finishing it, even reasonably enjoyable. Works well on heels of Blessing.
