https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/394535.Blood_Meridian_or_the_Evening_Redness_in_the_West
He closed the pages tightly together then put one foot on the floor then the other then used his hands to push himself up out of the chair and then put one foot in front of the other until he had walked all the way to the book shelf and then put the book on the book shelf.
And real repetitiv' too.I read that he doesn't see why people like Proust and James because he thinks all novels should be about life and death things.I reckon that's 'cause he's too obsessed with subject matter and not enough with style and art.The dead deer nodded and walked out.
Like how the long, drawn out bulk of Moby Dick exists to make the reader feel the numbingly eventless life of a whaling vessel before it reaches its climactic destination (McCarthy is frequently compared to Melville, btw), Blood Meridian exists to break the reader’s spirit.
Whether or not Chamberlain’s tale is true only adds to the mythic quality – exemplified by the character of Judge Holden.Blood Meridian is really The Judge’s story.
Spilled...emptied...wrung out…soul-ripped...that pretty accurately sums up my emotional composition after finishing this singular work of art. Ironically, I’m sure I only absorbed about 10% of the “message” McCarthy was conveying in this epic exposition on war, violence and man’s affinity for both. Still, even with my imperfect comprehension, I was shaken enough by the experience that, though I finished the book days ago, I’m just now at the point where I can revisit the jumble in my head enoug
The rest of the story follows the kid and his exploits with the Glanton Gang as they cut a swatch of violence across the borderlands that is unlike anything you are likely to have read about before.
McCarthy uses the lawlessness and extreme carnage of the period and the horrific events that transpire as a microcosm to explore the nature of war, violence and man’s unrivaled capacity for unmitigated depravity.
I came to see him as the “Muse of War and Violence.” Here is a great description from the end of the book where the kid muses on where the Judge came from:
For me, this was my second time through and I liked it far better than my first reading.
The apocalypse described in The Road is not too far a cry from the hellish country on the US-Mexico border (which has not really changed if we exchange the scalper mercenaries for the drug cartels) and yet the descriptions and language of Blood Meridian is more beautiful to me.
The symbolism here is quite strong and one wonders whether the author is a nihilist like his characters or if there is really some redeeming quality buried deep inside man...a true American masterpiece.I would read The Border Trilogy after finishing Blood Meridien.
After reading Blood Meridian, I may never view a western film the same way again.
To be certain, it is a masterpiece, a rare and unique work of literature that rises above classification and genre.
And to be certain, McCarthy must be viewed as a great American writer, one of the greatest in our time.
That having been said, this book is not for everyone; it is painfully brutal, violent at it's heart.
Glanton and Judge Holden, based upon actual persons, have been written as archetypal villains.
The Judge may be a composite of Mephistopheles and Conrad's Mr. Kurtz, and perhaps even Richard III.
Strong, powerful book.
Trying to convey how this was so different to anything I've ever read, it occurred to me that it was like a huge black vortex that would suck early nineteenth century marriage plot novels into the void.
Yes, that is the worrying thing - obviously the language is a wonder and can make up for much, but there is a very troubling phenomenon.
and not again in all the world's turning will there be terrains so wild and barbarous to try whether the stuff of creation may be shaped to man's will or whether his own heart is not another kind of clay."
There are two ways to evaluate a book, as far as my unlearned mind can concoct at the moment.
Stylish literary flourishes sometimes cloud our judgment when it comes to evaluating the plot itself, which is, after all, the reason why the book exists.This book is well written.
There are only so many ways one can say that it's hot, dry and empty.
Why do you want to believe that it was like that?
I wonder.By the way, if neglecting quotation marks somehow makes the book classier, why not just go all out and remove spaces between words.
Villainous attacks on people devoid a home, desecration of the west-land, listings of all things in the majestic, transitory landscape like observations by Darwin at the Galapagos in lush (sometimes horrific) detail, murky human psyches, no dialogue, and especially that campfire philosophy by which anyone can find some sort of meaning in their modern lives (especially if you're fortunate enough to inhabit the places which Mr. McCarthy describes!)...
are all the ingredients of a McCarthy book & the way this one is polished, symbolic & graphic makes it my favorite McCarthy book by far.The apocalyptic landscape of "The Road" is here, but it's thankfully not as literal as that novel about human annihilation after cataclysm.
Δεν απέχει απο την εκπληκτική ομορφιά ή τη βαρβαρότητα που προκαλείται απο έναν ασυνείδητο πολιτισμό και επηρεάζεται απο ένα τυχαίο χάος το οποίο έχει αταβιστικά πάντα ενα πρότυπο.
Ο συγγραφέας εκπέμπει ένα φως απο την ψυχή του, παρόλο που η γραφή του ξεκινάει στο σκοτάδι, φτάνει στο αιματοβαμμένο μεσημβρινό τοπίο της κοκκινωπής νύχτας και τελειώνει στο σκοτάδι.
Η λεγεώνα του αίματος χαράζει ένα μονοπάτι στην άγρια Δύση της Αμερικής και ξεκινάει την επική αναζήτηση θυμάτων,κάθε φυλής-θρησκείας-χρώματος-φύλου - ηλικίας-ενοχής-αθωότητας.
Ας πούμε πως σε αυτή την απάνθρωπη εσχατιά δεν υπάρχει τίποτα πιο καθημερινό απο εικόνες δέντρων στα κλαδιά των οποίων κρέμονται νεκρά κατακρεουργημένα μωρά.
If John Gast's visualized panorama seeks to establish the legitimacy of the American Dream, vindicates the Godgiven right of determining the foundations of civilization, then McCarthy's vision of 'American Progress' brutally mocks the same and depicts the wild west as a lawless hunting ground submerged in a moral vaccuum.
And such a solemn message leaves one with a lingering suspicion that if we peeled away the glossy veneer of democracy, modernity and the daily grind of mechanistic endeavours and reduced any society of humans to its bare bones, McCarthy's apocalyptic vision of an amoral world is the only thing that might remain - a perpetual heart of darkness.
Quite possibly the most chilling and horrifying book ever written, 'Blood Meridian' is a unnerving glimpse of humanity at its worst during one of the most savage periods in American history.
Unlike some of Cormac's other work, 'Blood Meridian' is not a particularly easy read for either style or subject matter.
Generally, I only advocate that people read well-written work that is fluid, pacey, and has total command of the language.
'Blood Meridian' is one such book, written on its own terms by an author who plays by his own rules.
It seems apocalyptic at times, with the judge showing the kid the horrors of the world, kind of like the devil and Jesus in the desert.Cormac McCarthy's prose is simple but powerful.
Once the kid hooks up with the judge and the Glantons, things get worse and worse, like getting kicked in the crotch by progressively more spiky shoes.There were a lot of times during my read of Blood Meridian where I had to stop and digest what I just read.
I could only read it for 30-45 minutes at a time before I had to stop and digest.Lastly, what's with the lack of quotation marks?
Based on historical events that took place on the Texas-Mexico border in the 1850s, we follow and witness the grim and bloody coming of age of the Kid, a fourteen-year-old Tennessean who stumbles into a nightmarish world where Indians are murdered and the market for scalps is thriving...They rode on and the sun in the east flushed pale streaks of light and then a deeper run of color like blood seeping up in sudden reaches flaring planewise and where the earth drained up into the sky at the edge of creation the top of the sun rose out of nothing like the head of a great read phallus until it cleared the unseen rim and sat squat and pulsing and malevolent behind them.
First, we have to establish these new versions of the classics will be stylized after McCarthy's Western Novels, starting with Blood Meridian and ending with Cities of the Plain.
Lady Catherines hands grasped nervously at nothing as she looked across the moor.Young women of unfortunate birth shouldnt attempt to reach beyond their station.What?Don't pretend you don't know of what I speak.Eliza spat and turned away.
Her finger moved closer to the knife that hung at her hip.++++++And here's one of the Bible's more memorable passages, McCarthyized:19:1 From out the dark sky over all Gods reckoning the two drifted like fallenleaves downward as Lot tipped back the widebrimmed hat, rubbing his thumb over stubble and spat on the grounddirt.
You were there when it all happened, and that is how it should be if we really want to know evil.
Then when reading it I would come upon some of the most haunting prose, and I would think, like others have, that I wanted to read the book again.
And at times I had to look away.I began feeling that there was nothing right about this book except for its prose.
I picked up the book and started over from the very beginning, and this time I knew all that was happening.
The world of Blood Meridian is at once recognizable, historical—and a prehistoric void, the very birth of violence: The Yumas seemed immobilized by these misfortunes and the kid cocked the pistol and shot down another of their number before they began to collect themselves and move back, taking their dead with them, lofting a flurry of arrows and howling out bloodoaths in their stoneage tongue or invocations to whatever gods of war or fortune they’d the ear of and retreating upon the pan until they were very small indeed.Even the horses looked alien to any they’d ever seen, decked as they were in human hair and teeth and skin.
That's so, said the judge. They do not have to have a reason. But order is not set aside because of their indifference. Rugged individualism.There's a whole unholy host of words one could use in reckoning with this, some more explicated than others. Penchants for ideological idiosyncrasies and survival have shaped mine; yours are your own. May the last speaker standing still breath. Ye carry war of a madman's making onto a foreign land. Ye'll wake more than the dogs. History, human, homicide. W
If you set forth onto the borderline of one culture stretching out its self-assured entrails of weaponry and their users into the breaking and bloodying brains of another, yes, you will find a finality.
Here, in the good ol' U.S.A., that train of genocidal eloquence won and keeps on winning, a canny survivor in the folds of capitalistic corporations decrying the "moochers" and the poor.So long as the majority averts with one eye and glorifies with the other the right of violence to the spoils of humanity, ever it shall be.
However, there are 280 pages before that you have to read, which consist of, in my opinion, nothing more than barren landscapes, borderline shock-value accounts of depravity, and self-indulgent simile.
It's a never-ending journey on the shoulders of quite possibly the most unlikable group of characters I've ever read, which in the hands of a particular writer, may work...McCarthy does NOT pull it off.
What people could see in this miserable story, I'll never know, when his later work like The Road is much more engaging and well paced.
Avoid, unless you enjoy reading about the slaughter of a Mexican village more than 8 times in one book.
In Blood Meridian McCarthy writes about three or four wolves, calls them humans - those characters he bothers to name at all - and shows that with enough talent and powerful prose, a writer and his work can be called "great" without having to develop a single character in 330 pages.Among those who would be unsatisfied with the mere word "great" and have to go further in describing Blood Meridian, unbelievably enough, we find literary critic Harold Bloom.
Mr. Bloom, who has published at least 1,000 pages that say irony and character development are the only measures of a major writer, is ridiculous in his praise, writing that Blood Meridian is "clearly the major esthetic achievement of any living American writer."McCarthy is a writer of overpowering prose, no doubt.
Un testimonio fabuloso de hasta dónde puede llegar la maldad del ser humano, por el fondo, y la excelencia de su arte, por la forma.Es una historia escrita con un estilo tajante, marca de la casa, que lo mismo sirve para describir con gran belleza un amanecer en ese territorio desértico y duro entre EE.UU.
Porque la novela es violenta, llena de personajes y escenarios duros y coléricos en esa frontera que no es solo entre territorios sino entre el hombre y el animal, que es mucho peor que lo uno o lo otro.
In David Foster Wallace's posthumous essay collection Both Flesh and Not there's a little piece called "Five Direly Underappreciated US Novels > 1960," and Wallace goes off on paragraph-long defenses of some books he likes - "Bleak but gorgeous," he says of Omensetter's Luck, "like light through ice." But when he gets to Blood Meridian there's just this one line under it:"Dont even ask."Unfortunately everyone did anyway and this book, where you can identify the good guys as the ones who haven't actively killed any babies or puppies yet, is considered a Great American Novel by people who are probably no fun at parties at all.Based on a true story about how everyone is terrible and life is torment, and also this guy's diary which sounds like a joy, Blood Meridian has more in common with Inferno and Paradise Lost than any specifically earthly matters.
The Judge is the biggest accomplishment of the novel,he is thrilling, and he reads like another man wrote his sections.
I swear, if you were to hand this book to an aspiring artist experiencing a depression-inducing creative block, you may just find yourself with a d.b. on your hands thanks to thoughts like "So wait, this was written by a human being and not an alien?" and "Fuck me!" and "Oh fuck it, I give up." While you'll hear no argument from me that The Road isn't a masterpiece, it is my firm conviction that this'n is even more masterpiece-ier, though far, far darker than The Road is even with all those insinuated cannibals and rapists and cannibal-rapists and rapist-cannibals in the Pulitzer-winner.
Οκ μπορώ να δεχτώ πως στην Ελλάδα δεν είναι πολύ δημοφιλές λόγω της θεματολογίας του (Άγρια δύση και νεότερη ιστορία των Ηνωμένων πολιτειών), όμως ειλικρινά το συγκεκριμένο ανάγνωσμα είναι ένα έπος...Μέσα από τα μάτια του Κιντ (!!!!!!!!!!
Δολοφόνοι, καιροσκόποι, εγκληματίες, ιδεολόγοι, πόρνες, Ινδιάνοι θα βρεθούν στον δρόμο του φτιάχνοντας έναν "πίνακα", ένα ψηφιδωτό που όμως έχεις την εντύπωση πως ανά πάσα στιγμή μπορεί να καταρρεύσει!!
Οι σκηνές που περιγράφονται είναι βίαιες και σε συνδυασμό με τις περιγραφές του ΜακΚαρθυ μετατρέπουν το ανάγνωσμα σε ένα ταξίδι που δεν έχει επιστροφή...Απλά τεράστιο βιβλίο!!!
While people who do not write could likely marvel at what he manages in this novel, I think those who love and study the craft of writing will receive the most bang for their buck while reading this.
From the earless Toadvine to the hairless Judge (whose part in this tale seems much larger than I first imagined) to the quiet-and-violent kid, each character is subtly and passionately drawn, giving you just enough information so that you can tell them apart but never so much that you feel like McCarthy is demanding you imagine them one certain way.
I sat in awe, reading the final chapter.
Those who travel desert places do indeed meet with creatures surpassing all description.They’re riding through the mountains, deserts, muddy and dusty pueblos, leaving behind them piles of mutilated and scalped bodies, massacred people and animals as well.
Glanton, leader of the gang, the earless Toadvine, black Jackson and white Jackson, ex-priest Tobin, the kid and Holden, the judge.
Death is always quick.One of the most intriguing person and undisputed leader is Judge Holden.
Before man was, war waited for him.
Every man in the company claims to have encountered that sootysouled rascal in some other place.There is one more protagonist of that story.
Seductively dark, desolate, and violent, Blood Meridian speaks to you on a very primal level. On reading this a second time, I can definitely say that it’s one of my all-time favorites; a stark, bleak, brutal country I’ll be drawn to again and again.
Cormac McCarthy is on good speaking terms with the dark.
Written 30 years ago, Blood Meridian is filled with gorgeous prose, 'a vicious snarl of flies', 'a vomit of gore', 'profound and absolute darkness'.
You can see it, almost smell it as you are reading.
It is also full and to bursting with indiscriminate killing, butchery, and base cruelty.
Join Toadvine, Bathcat, Tobin, the kid, and the judge out on the trail.
I will never be able to get the judge out of my head.
I love McCarthy's early work. It's much denser, grimmer, and richer than "All the Pretty Horses" and what follows.
The Christian God does not reign over McCarthy's deserts and scrubland; this is the world of El Diablo, a place where magic works and the twinkle of the raven's eye forbodes of more death.The protagonist is a young drifter, known as the Kid, a cipher and everyman, who shows no real traces of pleasure or disgust, eagerness or reluctance at the depravities undertaken by the gang of Indian scalp-hunters that he ends up joining after a prior military expedition into Mexico - led by the naïve and glory-hungry Captain White - comes to disaster against a savage band of Comanches.
