https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25135194-prisoners-of-geography
Well, you really shouldn’t laugh, but – Once I saw this programme, I can’t remember what, it’s hard to keep track what with this and that and the other, but they were talking about earthquakes and they showed this huge plain somewhere, like Iran I think, and there was a little river in the middle, and so that was the only place there was a village, everywhere else on this plain was deserted.
Africa has got a lot of famous long rivers but they don’t join up and so you can’t sail your goods down them because every 20 miles there’s a waterfall.
He states it will be out soon.This one is for the main 10 regions of divisions in geography today: Russia, China, United States, Western Europe, Africa, The Middle East, India & Pakistan, Korea & Japan, Latin America, and lastly The Artic.If you have learned your history and politico from the stance of administration ideologies, religion, colonialism or any whole piece belief system of division or operations, you need to read this book.Because the mountain ranges, rivers, deserts, oceans will alter, change.
And structure still insists functions and outcomes in majority.
Reading about Brazil and its complicated connections to other countries, comparing it to Argentina with its access to the Atlantic through the Rio De La Plata, I found myself repeatedly humming a song by a Swedish sailor-poet-songwriter called Evert Taube.
However, this lovely love song between a Swedish sailor and a young girl called Carmencita from Samborombom, in the Rio De La Plata area, shows exactly what this nonfiction book on geography explains in plain facts: some areas are more accessible, and enhance global communication, while others are more remote, and thus stay isolated, culturally and technologically.
Country C enjoys a strong trading economy because it has access to the sea.
And so it goes.Most people reading it will probably get one or two "aha" moments when the book gives them an insight they hadn't had before.
But it's not quite as good as it could be.The main problem is that the book is one long dry lecture.
And you do not make a good book solely by allowing an expert to drone on and on in lecture-theatre style.
There is lots of good stuff in here, even if it can be quite dull and the main thesis doesn't entirely work every time.
Asia, Korea/Japan, Latin America, Arctic.The author’s claim, that natural corridors and natural barriers explain “everything,” is belied by the rise and fall of empires as plains, mountains, seas and rivers stay put.Where I'm coming from: for example, Addicted to War: Why the U.
For the truth, see Open Veins of Latin America: Five Centuries of the Pillage of a Continent, Eduardo Galeano, goodreads.com/book/show/187149.Open_V...To the author, “idiots” think the problems of the Middle East are due to Israel.
158]To this author, Mexico is a problem for America, supplying illegal labor and drugs.
Areas of Jungle, desert and high mountains have provided natural boundaries but also create problems for transporting goods and for travel.
Yes, when you are born the natural lay of the land and climate will have predetermined – to an extent – how prosperous a country you will be born into.History provides the second set of answers.
Some countries with natural resources of gas, oil and minerals have been able to utilise their good fortune to enrich their nation (though not necessarily the people who live there).
Overall an interesting read, but little new information for anyone with more than just a passing interest in history or (geo-)politics.
There is too much ''America is awesome'' and too little actual in depth information.
I had the impression that there would be ten actual maps, ones that you don't see or use very often to define your view of the world, but could be considered important nonetheless.
Rather, the author just uses the generic maps that exist of the world's major continents and regions.
If you are looking for something more in-depth, look further.
What a great read, this was such an interesting topic, well explained and clear . I highly recommend this book to any lover of geopolitical issues and whoever wants to get a glimpse on how the foreseeable future might play out . If you love maps and history this book is for you!
الطبعة الأولى 2015.يتألف الكتاب من إحدى عشر فصلا يتناول كل منها بلدا أو اقليما جغرافيا وهي كالتالي: روسيا، الصين، الولايات المتحدة الأمريكية، أوروبا الغربية، أفريقيا، الشرق الأوسط، الهند وباكستان، كوريا واليابان، أمريكا اللاتينية، والمنطقة المتجمدة الشمالية.
تلعب الجغرافيا السياسية دورا هاما في أوروبا والتي تتكون من عدد كبير من الدول في مساحة صغيرة نسبيا مقارنة بالولايات المتحدة او روسيا على سبيل المثال.
كما يتطرق الكتاب إلى موضوع الهجرة الداخلية بين دول أوروبا والهجرة الخارجية من دول الشرق الأوسط وأفريقيا نحو دول اوروبا الغربية ومدى تأثير هذه الهجرات على تغيير ثقافة وسياسة وحياة أوروبا الاجتماعية.
What we have not heard is a lot about Russia’s interference in Eastern Ukraine which Eastern Europe is very concerned about.Tim Marshall’s excellent book Prisoners of Geography which examines ten maps of the world and then given a concise geopolitical history of that region.
One could go forensically through all the chapters and set them out here but the reader needs to engage this book.What Tim Marshall gives the reader is an excellent lesson and reminders that geography influences political decisions, strategic decisions of governments and the attitudes of the people.
Prisoners of Geography: Ten Maps That Tell You Everything You Need To Know About The World by Tim Marshall attempts to explain the world by presenting ten maps of the planet.
Mountains, rivers, deserts, and oceans created borders even before Europe drew lines on a map.
Marshall takes maps of ten regions of the world and uses them to explain the political and cultural realities of the modern world.
Prisoners of Geography is a nicely done work that provides a picture (map) and then goes on to describe the history, culture, and the political realities of the region.
The author includes general details which are enough to connect the dots of history and politics, but his primary focus is on how the presence of mountain ranges, rivers, plains, climate, technology, flora, fauna and natural resources either nurtured or damaged the economic development of countries and/or its vulnerability to war.
Lovely ocean beaches are certainly places where one can relax, and if the underlying geology is amiable to the building of ports for deep-water shipping, a country has a major leg up for production and prosperity.
"Geography has always been a prison of sorts-one that defines what a nation is or can be, and one from which our world leaders have often struggled to break free"This book is a rather grand introduction to geopolitics. It contains ten respectably shirt chapters and there are illustrations showing us the geo strategic realities for the different countries.I particularly enjoyed the chapter on the Arctic. It was most interesting and there is such a lot going on there.This book has gone into a lot of detail, and has left me with rather a lot to think about.
Marshall could have kept up the initial presentation and analysis throughout the book, but at some point the editors decided to shorten the pages and compress regions together. As a fellow reviewer says, "It is solid stuff, but after some time this geography thing gets a bit repetitive – plains, mountains, rivers, plainsmountainsrivers, portsportsports ..."
Partly this is because of all that wonderful farmland but it's also partly because we're home to the world's longest navigable rivers, so we can get all that grain to market.He lays out why the entire continent of Africa is becoming a Chinese colony, and the chapter on India and Pakistan is a pocket history of the region and it will not cheer you to learn that, again, geography dictates that nothing is resolved there anytime soon, or ever.
One Indian politician is even on record as saying they ought to just nuke Pakistan and deal with the literal and figurative fallout so India can move on without the Pakistani thorn in their sides.

This is a good introduction to geopolitics. In ten short chapters it illustrates the geostrategic realities for countries and regions. It explains why the Ukraine is so important to Russia, the limits of chinese assertiveness in its backyard and why africa is so poor.My only criticism is that it is too short
Several disclaimers:  1. I am a historical geographer by inclination and education, and I have taught history and geography. I have also published articles in leading scholarly journals.2. I have read the forward and the first half of the first section concerning Russia and cannot read further.3. Tim Marshall is an incredibly ignorant smug ass and the living avatar of the Dunning-Kruger effect. This is an opinion I formed of him while reading this book. This opinion is not one I believe any new
This opinion is not one I believe any new information short of meeting him and having him explain that he wrote this book as a cruel joke can shake.
Cribbing liberally from his dogeared volume Military History for Complete Dummies, Marshall reiterates the absolute worst ideas the Geographic Determinism arguments of the early 20th century and pretends that they are his very own profound truths about the human condition, rather than entirely discredited theories (and profoundly and inescapably racist ones at that).
Subtitle: Ten Maps That Explain Everything About the World - or in U.K. editions: Ten Maps That Tell You Everything You Need to Know About Global PoliticsI’ve always been relatively good at geography, and yet I wouldn’t say I’m particularly interested in or fascinated by the subject.
So, much of this book was not news to me; I’ve been listening to my husband talk about these topics at the dinner table for years.
I recommended the book to my husband; after about ten pages he said, “Haven’t I been saying this to you for years?” Yes, Dear, you have; but NOW I understand it.
Marshall's book itself offers several good cases (I'm not even counting the Cold War), like Jerusalem: a city of no geographic strategic importance, but one of the most important cities in the world nevertheless.
Marshall has a great chapter on Africa, but again, it's not Africa's geography and demography per se that are causing trouble (or at least not only), it's the geographic and ethnic realities in conjunction with the arbitrary national borders that were drawn ignoring those realities – as Marshall himself eloquently describes.Anyway, if you set all this aside and read the book as an examination of one important factor in the global Great Game, it's a really enjoyable, enlightening read.
Educativa pentru cei care doresc sa inteleaga contextul politic actual. As fi vrut doar sa explice mai in detaliu anumite aspecte istorice.
Il capitolo 3 inizia con una manciata di pagine sulla storia della colonizzazione dell'America del Nord.
Ora, si sa che "durante la colonizzazione europea delle Americhe i popoli nativi americani, che contavano all'origine circa più di 80 milioni di individui, vennero ridotti del 90% (Wikipedia), tant'è che si parla di "Genocidio dei nativi americani".
L'autore non ne accenna affatto, l'unico vago riferimento è il seguente: il Pacifico era stato raggiunto ed era ormai evidente che le tribù indiane sopravvissute sarebbero state sottomesse: non c’erano minacce per gli Stati Uniti.
As a youth I studied the Annales school of history - a structuralist method which deals with geography first as a motor of history, and human plans and actions very much last.
I say 'studied' rather than 'read' because Annales history was notoriously dry and notoriously long.
Tim Marshall's book takes a similar approach but is brief, crisp and only mildly arid.Prisoners of Geography is at its strongest when explaining why big global powers want what they want.
In such cases Marshall doesn't really even try for a geography-first approach.
It's a great idea for a book, and I think Tim Marshall successfully pulled it off.
That's because, as he says on page 2, he wants us to understand that "The physical realities that underpin national and international politics are often disregarded in both writing about history and in contemporary reporting of world affairs." A worthy goal, no doubt, and I believe Marshall has earned the right to say, "Mission accomplished!"My only complaint is that the maps are sort of disappointing.
Simple black-and-white maps laid out across two facing pages seem embarrassingly low-tech, in this day and age.
3 stars - It was good.Interesting and extremely relevant read – I particularly enjoyed the chapter on the Arctic.
-------------------------------------------Favorite Quote: When we are reaching for the stars, the challenges ahead are such that we will perhaps have to come together to meet them: to travel the universe not as Russians, Americans, or Chinese but as representatives of humanity.
But so far, although we have broken free from the shackles of gravity, we are still imprisoned in our own minds, confined by our suspicion of the “other,” and thus our primal competition for resources.First Sentence: Vladimir Putin says he is a religious man, a great supporter of the Russian Orthodox Church.
Reading it made me understand, and perhaps in some way even sympathize, with certain positions countries take and view as being in their national interest.That said, I think the book's subtitle — "Ten Maps That Explain Everything About the World" — somewhat obfuscates what this book really is.
There are only a couple of instances where Marshall explains the origins of a country's borders — for example, the Sykes-Picot agreement that carved up the Middle East following WWI — but I would have liked to see a few more pages devoted to the reasoning and rationale that led to nations' borders being drawn the way they were.
The book seems to me about geo-tactics, mostly about how geography defines possible military attacks and defences.It did not convince me of its thesis that we are prisoners of geography.The one that convinced me of exactly the opposite was Why Nations Fail: The Origins of Power, Prosperity, and PovertyPlus: the maps in the book are not great either :-(
A very interesting read that provides a potted history of the geopolitical realities. At times the tone was a little strange but I think this is largely the result of attempting to pitch highly complex ideas at ordinary readers. There are lots of fascinating detail here, and the book does give you a lot to think about.
Very good book for putting oneself in the collective shoes of various geopolitical powers and their fears and strategy. The book takes into account the geographic advantages and threats of various regions and explains why great powers make the moves they do and gives some insight into what is likely to be coming down the road. A good primer for gaining literacy in geopolitics.
A book about the complexity of geopolitics, written with the simplicity necessary for a neophyte to get it. Big plus for the author's sense of humour, which permeates from time to time in the middle of the most serious subjects, giving you a laughing jolt when you least expect it. Totally worth the read for anyone interested in the subject.
