https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36249638-how-to-walk-away
“When you don’t know what to do for yourself, do something for somebody else” Sometimes a book comes along that makes my heart skip a beat. This is one of those times. I may not have come across this novel but a friend had just finished reading it and loved it. She thought I might enjoy it too.She was right. I loved it!Margaret Jacobsen has worked hard all of her life and things are starting to pay off. She’s dating an awesome guy, she’s going to be starting a great new job, and on a night out
I may not have come across this novel but a friend had just finished reading it and loved it.
I loved it!Margaret Jacobsen has worked hard all of her life and things are starting to pay off.
She’s dating an awesome guy, she’s going to be starting a great new job, and on a night out with her boyfriend, Chip, she has a strong feeling that things are about to get even better.We’ve all heard that saying that life can change in a moment, or the blink of an eye.
I’m guessing here, but I think the overly-positive approach to the topic driving this plot will divide readers.
There will be those who undoubtedly appreciate the lightness the author brings to such heavy subject matter and there will be others—like myself—who struggle to connect emotionally and yearn for something deeper, more meaningful and authentic.Piecing together what happens after the major plot point is revealed is pretty simple, so I’m not going to dissect things here, but I will say Margaret’s new reality lacked some credibility.
The author relied heavily on their exaggerated antics to carry the story forward, which only served to highlight how weak the heart of the plot truly was.
4.5 stars for this one.When you can accurately predict nearly the entire plot of a book, yet you still can't tear yourself away from it—that's when you know you've found a good one.Margaret Jacobsen has always been an overachiever.
It's also the story of how it's always great to have family and supporters and loved ones around, but you have to learn to do things for yourself, too.I'm being a little evasive with the plot even though many reviews explain just what happened to Margaret.
Then on day, Chip, the perfect man, decided to take her flying.
Her sister, Kit, who has been estranged form the family for several years, comes back into her life and provides a cushion for Margaret (Maggie) as she copes with her current situation, her parents, Chip, Chip's Mother and her own feelings about her physical injuries.
During the course of her hospitalization and recovery, Margaret learns a lot about the people in her life through how they treat her and react to her injuries.A lot of research went into Margaret's medical condition, burns, prognosis and physical therapy options.
Margaret thinks this is it!
Something happened that day that changed every fiber of Margaret's being.
On that fateful day..
Margaret lost herself.
This is the story of how Margaret found herself.
A story of finding Courage, Hope, Resilience, and Strength.
This is the story of new beginnings.
I felt renewed by this story.
I felt a resurgence of energy and hope within me.
I don't typically read stories like this and I thought it was particularly refreshing.
I think the protagonist was brave and personified the type of courage I would hope to possess if faced with a similar situation.
I loved this book so much!!!
Lots of laugh out loud moments, lots of tears, wonderful characters (her sister Kit and her Instagram was the best!) and smart dialogue!
This was probably the best chick lit book I have ever come across (unless Me Before You is chick lit)!
I wanted to say that this was the audio version.
If you are looking to try audio, this would make a fantastic first listen!
She makes this novel so easy to follow and so much fun to listen to!
Thank you to all my Goodreads friends for putting this book on my radar!
this book was about Margaret’s struggle and journey to the other side of tragedy...
along the way she found out who the true people in her life were....Margaret didn’t always do things how I would have liked, but who am I to judge?
I’ve never fortunately been in this situation....
there were also some people in her life that frustrated me quite a bit, and some of the things said were mind blowing....
there were also some people in Margaret’s life that exceeded both her and my expectations....
I realize I’ve been pretty vague....
Yes, it was unputdownable!The roller coaster ride it takes you on is fascinating and totally captivating!It’s a story of courage.
A story of acceptance.It is also a romance, but don’t expect an alpha take charge, sexy, hot between the sheets kind of read.
No, this is a heartfelt, hard fought for, humorous kind of love story that warmed my heart and pulled on it’s strings!The main characters are one of a kind, down to earth, and so lovable!And yes, of course, I went in totally blind, as those five star ratings piqued my interest ;)This is my first read by this author and can tell you she is one gifted author.
5 utterly uplifting stars to How to Walk Away!
🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 I was gobsmacked by Katherine Center’s previous book, Happiness for Beginners.
I found out there is a genre that is exactly this- UpLit. How to Walk Away is another rendition of UpLit. Margaret is in the prime of her life, when it all may have been taken from her in an instant as the result of a tragic accident.
How to Walk Away is a charming, witty, heartbreaking, and affecting story of love and family, and it cheered me up when I needed it most.
I absolutely loved this novel, it was lighthearted and engaging.
Margaret's life is almost perfect.
She has a wonderful boyfriend, recently finished her studies and has just (unofficially) landed her dream job.
Her life falls apart when she suffers an accident that causes her to end up in the hospital with a life-changing injury and facing difficulties she never imagined.
I was captivated from the beginning.
The characters are likable, interesting, and made me smile throughout.
This is a novel about overcoming obstacles, family relationships, and hope.
Overall, I loved this book and recommend it to readers of contemporary fiction.
⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ / 5Wow and here I thought the last book I read was emotional! How to Walk Away by Katherine Center made me cry even harder than The Ones We Choose did. However, in this book there is more romance and much more of an "inspirational story" vibe. Margaret Jacobsen is 27 years old when she gets on a Cessna prop plane with her boyfriend who is working on getting his pilot's license. She is terrified of flying, but she gets on anyway because she wants to face her fears (plus she thinks her boyfr
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ / 5Wow and here I thought the last book I read was emotional!
What follows is the story of how Margaret copes with a life changing injury, and how everyone else reacts as well.
This book made me cry like a BABY, and I loved what a strong personality Margaret is.
If there is a real Margaret Jacobsen out there I want her to be my best friend because she was such a relatable character, and she was freaking hilarious.
It felt like your best friend was telling you her life story and it just felt so real to me.
I don’t read a lot of what is typically classified as women’s fiction because sometimes the plots can be too formulaic and predictable.
But there are authors in that genre who don’t fit into what I realize are probably my unwarranted and stereotypical beliefs about women’s fiction (and based on what I’ve read recently it’s time to change those beliefs!) I’ve read great women’s fiction by Jojo Moyes, Jodi Picoult, Abbi Waxman, and Liane Moriarty.
And now I’m adding Katherine Center to that list.
That was not in the flight plan and neither were the serious injuries that Margaret would sustain while Chip walked away from the crash unscathed.
They pipe up time and time again: "Now that's a question for the doctor."Although we eye Margaret as our main concern, Katherine Center lines her story with interesting characters including an unpredictable sister, Kitty, that she hasn't seen in three years, and a mother who refuses to address this.
Center taps mightily into the emotional side as well giving us a fully rounded main character.
4.5 Stars!HOW TO WALK AWAY by KATHERINE CENTER was an extremely uplifting, kind, and heartwarming novel that captured my heart and drew me in almost immediately.
KATHERINE CENTER delivers a well-written and engaging read here with interesting, honest and believable characters.
The witty banter that ensued between the characters was extremely enjoyable and made me smile quite a few times.
This book was definitely an inspirational, entertaining, enjoyable, and unforgettable story that was a most welcome and refreshing read for me.
This was my first novel that I have read by Katherine Center and it won’t be my last.
2.5 If you look at the average rating and glowing reviews of this book, you will soon realize I am definitely in the minority with my opinion.
Fluffy reads, feel good reads, they definitely have a place for many, after a heavy read, or sad read, we all need something to lighten our day.
So, yes I may be in the minority, but it's just how I felt.
Don't let my review put you off reading this,unless your name is Irene, lol, I am probably just not the right reader for this type of book.
I highly recommend it for anyone who likes a story of redemption peppered with tears of sorrow and tears of joy.Maggie thinks her life is exactly the way she wants it.
As a reader, nothing is worse for me than a lack of authenticity, so I was very impressed that the dialogue and character development felt as genuine as it did.Furthermore, each person in Maggie's life serves a different role in helping her heal, or walk away from the initial shock of what's happened to her.
not really haha.How to Walk Away was my first read by Katherine Center and I can definitely see why so many readers love her books!
How to Walk Away is a very uplifting and powerful story about learning to move on from things that cannot be changed.
Margaret is ultimately paralyzed by the accident and her fiance Chip doesn't even have a scratch on him.
Even though the story is focused mainly on Margaret, I enjoyed the dynamics of Margaret's sister, her father, and mother that the author nicely weaves into the plot.
I read this along side my lovely traveling sisters.
COURAGE. HOW TO WALK AWAY is a multi-layered story....with a wham-bang of a start....about the turbulent life of Margaret "Maggie" Jacobsen, her darkest fears, disappointments and courage to overcome adversity.Author Katherine Center creates interesting characters....especially a resourceful big sister Kitty and gives our protagonist a strong will and witty voice to keep the reader engaged while the story moves right along.More here than your usual chick-lit fare. Read in a day and REALLY enjoyed it!Many thanks to St. Martin's Press and NetGalley for the ARC COMING MAY 15, 2018, in exchange for an unbiased review.
Library Overdrive Audiobook narrated by Therese Plummer.“The earth dropped away from us ‘again’”...“Hold on”.Hold on to ‘what’, I was thinking.
“They were the very definition of helpless”, Margaret says.
Those were the last words before the plane crash.At the start —the audio- narrator was fine.
I was engaged & curious to see where this story was going.
Soon after the crash - my interest decrease.
I felt the dialogue was lacking authenticity big time!!!!Both the writing and the reader were WAY TOO PERKY CHIPPER after a very tragic accident.
I couldn’t take this book serious.
Thanks to NetGalley for an advanced ebook in exchange for an honest review.This book isn't hitting the stores until May 15th and so I strongly recommend my fellow reviewers head on over to NetGalley and check it out.
At times, I wanted to throttle both her mother and fiancee for the way they behaved or what they said, but at least with the former, it was really from a place of love.
Margaret's Scottish PTwas my favorite character in the book, even though we don't get to hear his p.o.v. 4 very powerful stars!
The story is one that is tragically heartbreaking while being powerfully inspiring all in the turn of a page.
There's humor in the heartbreak and hope in the darkest of places to make this one powerfully compelling read.
Such a beautiful book that I do hope readers will give a chance and pick this one up for one emotional ride.I received an advance copy from the publisher via NetGalley.For more reviews please visit https://carriesbookreviews.com/
It was good to know she had my back.
“Not yet.” (c)Q:“I read an article that if you have a talent and you don’t find a way to use it, your life can collapse in on itself like a black hole.”I gave her a look.
“Too late.” (c)Q:I didn’t want to look in that mirror to find that I was gone.
(c)Q:“I just read the article, and it seemed like information you should have.”“Why?” I asked.
Not even close.But you can look for reasons to be grateful.More than that, you can work to create them.That’s what I’ve taken from all this.
(c)Q:I know better than to look backward.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ I immediately jumped at the chance for an advanced copy of How To Walk Away when a comparison was made to Me Before You - despite knowing the potential outcome of a book that might possibly give me feelings . . . .  I accepted the challenge. And I’m so happy to report that I stayed strong and did not ruin my eye makeup! It appears not a whole lot is being said about the plot in the blurb, so I’m going to attempt to keep my mouth shut
I immediately jumped at the chance for an advanced copy of How To Walk Away when a comparison was made to Me Before You - despite knowing the potential outcome of a book that might possibly give me feelings .
If you’re looking for a feel good book, How To Walk Away should go to the top of your to-read list this summer.And even though I know anything can be cut and I’m not supposed to post direct quotes, I can’t help but leave this one itsy bitsy lil’ thing right here because it’s perfect .
★ 4 “There are all kinds of happy endings” stars!!! ★  “When you don’t know what to do for yourself, do something for somebody else.” How to Walk Away contém uma dolorosa, emocionante e linda história sobre mudanças, coragem, determinação e superação. Com personagens falhos, alguns desses foram capazes de despertar em mim a revolta e indignação. Uma verdadeira montanha-russa de emoções e sentimentos. Esse livro me cativou desde a primeira página e embora tenha sido um pouquinho previsível em de
How to Walk Away contém uma dolorosa, emocionante e linda história sobre mudanças, coragem, determinação e superação.
Histórias como essa me faz abrir os olhos e refletir muito sobre a minha vida.
A dar valor ao que realmente importa e parar de me queixar por coisas pequenas, insignificantes e sem peso algum.Esse é o primeiro livro que leio da autora e gostei demais da escrita.
Narrativa fluida e completamente envolvente.Definitivamente essa história e personagens ganharam um espaço especial no meu coração!
“Because that’s all we can do: carry the sorrow when we have to, and absolutely savor the joy when we can.
I’m paraphrasing, but the ultimate message in the book is you have to live the life you were given, look for reasons to be grateful, work to create them while finding inspiration in the struggle, and pull joy out of hardship.
Recommended to readers who enjoy humorous character-driven feel-good novels.*I received a copy of the book from Netgalley in exchange for an honest review *this title will be published May 15, 2018Many thanks to the traveling sisters I read and discussed the book with - you always make the experience of reading a book better.
But luckily the book didn’t continue down that path.
So many times books like these have a “Mr. Perfect” type of love interest, so I was very happy to see that Ian was different.
As for the other characters, I really liked Margaret’s sister, Kitty.
I also really liked that the book was realistic.
Like I mentioned previously, Ian felt like a realistic love interest, but besides that, the way Margaret’s condition was handled felt very realistic as well.
The realistic characters and realistic portrayal of life in a wheelchair combined with great writing makes this book a hit!
Warm, witty, and wonderfully observed. Reads like an intimate conversation with your best friend!
Margaret is tougher than she thinks and with the help of her sister and her physical therapist Ian, she slowly begins to create a new path for herself while learning to adjust to newly discovered family secrets and heartbreak.
And most importantly, the ending is outstanding.How to Walk Away is thought-provoking and handles a tough subject effectively and realistically, refusing to sugarcoat Margaret’s predicament which I appreciated.
That message certainly resonates with me and is a good reminder that while certain things cannot be changed, I can alter how I approach responding to those things.How to Walk Away is a fantastic book that I will continue thinking about for a long time.
An inspirational story that kept getting better and better as the story progressed. I’ve finally gotten a lil settled after moving & am starting to get some regular reading time back. I was glad that I had this novel to sneak a few chapters here and there. I loved Maggie and her attitude throughout. Her voice was honest and believable. The story itself felt real... no prefectly tied bows. ‘You get one life, and it only goes forward. And there really are all kinds of happy endings.’ 5 stars.
A poignant and inspiring story of resilience and recovery.SUMMARYMargaret Jacobson has a picture perfect life just around the corner.
She has just graduated from college with an MBA, has obtained a dream job, and has a fabulous boyfriend she adores.
Will she ever find love again?“When you don’t know what to do for yourself, do something for somebody else.”REVIEWHOW TO WALK AWAY is a book about life lessons.
The story is a touching and inspiring chronicle of loss, forgiveness, and moving on with life.
The writing, story and characters merge beautifully to create a memorable book.
