https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37759098-girls-night-out
I can't promise you'll feel sorry for any of the characters, as that will be up to you, but I can promise that by the end of the book you're brain will be digesting every aspect long after you close the book.I really don't want to discuss any specific plot points, because this book is best read going in blind, but I did love how the story flips between the days of the girls' trip and the present day where Ashley is missing.
A must-read for women of all ages!!!Girls’ Night Out by Liz Fenton and Lisa Steinke is a gripping tale of friendship and the cracks that form over time.
This argument has caused a divide between the two women, but Natalie is not telling Ashley the real reason she wants to sell the company—the secret she has been keeping from the world.
Natalie agrees to the girls’ trip thinking it may give her an opportunity to convince Ashley to sell, but will she be able to tell Ashley the truth?
My reviews can also be seen at: https://deesradreadsandreviews.wordpr...3.5 StarsAshley, Natalie, and Lauren have traveled all the way to Tulum, Mexico in hopes of rekindling their previous friendships.The book opens in present time.
She heads to her hotel room to find Ashley, hoping she can help her figure out what happened.
Ashley and Natalie work together but they had barely seen Lauren after a tragedy and a terrible fight the year before.Unfortunately, the trip hadn’t been going as planned.
I liked that the authors dedicated the book to friendship.All in all, this was an interesting read with some good twists, engaging characters, and an intriguing plot.
The fact that the authors of this book are friends added so much authenticity to the book, their friendship poured through the pages...Ashley, Natalie, and Lauren have been the best of friends for decades...
There are a lot of secrets and hurt between these girls, and even the best of margaritas cannot quickly fix this...This really was a book about secrets and forgiveness...
Natalie and Lauren were much more likable and relatable, there were times in this book I thought they should just be BFFs and forget about Ashley!This book really had a bit of everything friendship, secrets, forgiveness and a mystery...
The mystery of the disappearance of one woman who goes missing as the three friends are in Tulum, Mexico, trying to repair their friendship kept me reading to the end, but their differences and arguments got tedious and none of the women was likeable.The story not only alternates from the three women’s points of view, it also bounces back and forth between the few days before Ashley disappears to the days after.
"The saddest thing about betrayal is that it never comes from your enemies." (Chobir Dokan)The penetrating rays of the intense sun beckon three estranged friends to mend their disjointed relationships on the beaches of the Yucatan Peninsula.
It was time to have a face-to-face meeting and sort out the future come hell or high water.Not even Mexico has enough tequila shots to deaden the anxiety that these women faced in finding a mutual platform for discussion.
He seems to have Ashley's attention, though.
Was she running away from something or towards something?Liz Fenton and Lisa Steinke (quite the writing duo) have created the perfect getaway from one hot spot of existence into another.
Ashley, Natalie, and Lauren have all been good friends for years but at this point in their lives all the relationships have gotten pretty rocky so Ashley had planned the week in Tulum, Mexico in an attempt to mend their friendship.As the story begins Natalie wakes up on the beach the morning after what should have been their last night together with no memory of how she got there.
As Natalie returns to the room she shares with Ashley she finds her friends hasn’t returned and gets worried something happened that Natalie isn’t remembering.I have to say having read The Good Widow and now Girls’ Night Out what I find Liz Fenton and Lisa Steinke absolutely excel at is getting their settings across in their stories.
I love Lisa and Liz's books and am very thankful to Amazon Publishing for sending me an advanced copy.Ashley, Natalie and Lauren have been friends for 20+ years.
One morning Ashley is no where to be found and Natalie and Lauren start the search for Ashley that may really end their 20 years of friendship...The thing I enjoyed most about this book was the exploration of friendship and relationships.
I think that relationships are hard but you also need to be unselfish which in this book all 3 women are pretty selfish people.
So the question is, does friendship work between two selfish people?
In hope of repairing their broken friendship, Ashley invites the girls on a spur of the moment trip to Mexico.
After a tragic fight one night between the girls, Ashley disappears.
The story is told from multiple POV's between Ashley, Natalie, and Lauren plus different timelines.
The timeline would alternate between 2 days before/3 days before Ashley's disappearance etc.
AND honestly, I felt like I was hit in the head with a frisbee multiple times constantly hearing about the fighting between the girls.
Especially Natalie and Ashley receiving an offer from Revlon who wants to buy the company they share together.
4 suspenseful stars to Girls’ Night Out! ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ Liz Fenton and Lisa Steinke are lifelong best friends who co-author books. I read and enjoyed two of them, and I have anticipated Girls’ Night Out since they posted on Facebook about their girls’ trip to Tulum, Mexico when they were in the writing process. Follow them on Facebook if you have not already. They are so fun! The setting in Tulum piqued my interest because I traveled there years ago, and I remember its immense beauty well. Ashley, Nata
I read and enjoyed two of them, and I have anticipated Girls’ Night Out since they posted on Facebook about their girls’ trip to Tulum, Mexico when they were in the writing process.
Ashley, Natalie, and Lauren were best friends for over twenty years, but lately they have not spoken.
When one friend (Ashley) disappears on the trip, Natalie and Lauren try to figure out where she is, but their memories are not clear because there was plenty of drinking on girls’ night.
Will these friends and their friendship survive the trip to Tulum?Thank you to Amazon Publishing/Lake Union for the complimentary ARC.
I need to though going by this fantastic read.The authors write up at the back of the book also impacted on me after I had finished the story then got to read this.We all have friendships, sometimes we don’t see eye to eye, we fall out.
Your vulnerability is laid bare.These friends had a long standing relationship for over twenty years.So the duo authors revealing what it was like writing this book certainly I could taste a little of what the characters felt within the confines of these pages.Don’t get me wrong, this is a thriller.
Unfortunately, I came out the other side with just an average, “hmm...that was just an OK” read.Three women, lifelong friends.
Two of the three are business partners as well.
They hope to rebuild their fractured friendships and maybe even make a final decision on the direction of their business.Of course, nothing goes smoothly, to say the least.
Told from all three voices, and in different timelines, before and after the disappearance.
There seemed to be nothing of substance that made any of the three women’s voices distinguishable from one another.
I received a copy of this book via Netgalley.
Each one takes turns telling their story, what their history is with each other, their hopes for this trip and their true feelings about their other friends.The reader will not want to put this book down because of the hidden secrets that are revealed on every page.Fenton and Steinke play a masterful game of suspense and draw readers into a web that will only unravel itself at the very end to know the real truth as to whether three women can save their friendship and ultimately their lives.#netgalley #GirlsNightOut
Natalie, Ashley and Lauren have been best friends since college but life happened and they drifted apart so in hope of repairing their broken friendship, Ashley invited them on a trip to Mexico.
After days of fighting with each other, Ashley disappears and the others are trying to figure out what happened.
I did not connect with the characters, all three women seemed too immature for their age, they are selfish and whiny and at times I had a hard time telling them apart.
The part of the tension between Natalie and Ashley is that they received an offer from Revlon who wants to buy off their company.
One wants to sell, the other one does’t.
Girls Night Out started off intriguing and I was drawn into the lives of these three friends and their secrets and troubling past.
I was turning those pages as fast as I could but I soon got weary of being drawn into their consent resentment for each other and things from their past and the bickening between them.
The tension does increase as Natalie and Lauren search for answers as to what happened the night their friend Ashley disappears.
The drama also increases and unfortunately for me I didn’t really find anything interesting in the dynamics between these friends.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/1.5 StarsYeeeesh. This one did not work for me AT. ALL. The story here is about three 40-somethings who take a girls’ trip in order to reconnect. There’s drama between two of them due to the fact that they hit the bigtime with their company “BloMe” (okay I’ll give credit where it’s due to that name) when they invented something every woman didn’t even know they needed until they saw it . . . .  Now one wants to sell and the other doesn
There’s drama between two of them due to the fact that they hit the bigtime with their company “BloMe” (okay I’ll give credit where it’s due to that name) when they invented something every woman didn’t even know they needed until they saw it .
Warning for anyone who might be interested in going on a trip with me – there’s a pretty simple code you should respect and it goes a lil’ summin’ like .
ARC provided by NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.
I received this book for free from the authors in exchange for an honest review.
This book started off really strong.
I just couldn’t put it down!
It wasn’t as big of a reveal as I thought it was going to be.
That being said I still enjoyed the book overall.
I really liked how the authors combined chick lit elements with thriller/suspense elements.
The book was a strong blend of the two genres.
As for the characters, I wasn’t a big fan of any of them.
I just couldn’t get over some of their reasonings for the things they did and the attitudes they held.
It's trouble in paradise for three best friends struggling to make amends in the latest thriller from the dynamic writing duo of Liz Fenton and Lisa Steinke. GIRLS' NIGHT OUT is a chilling page-turner full of secrets and hostility that will leave readers shocked again and again... and again. I loved it
3.5 Stars* (rounded down)Ashley, Natalie and Lauren have been best friends since College, yet as time has gone on, their friendship has waned.
As a way to re-solidify their friendship, and celebrate their all turning the big 40, Ashley plans a trip to Tulum, Mexico.
Big secrets.
Maybe Ashley would not have gone taken off.
And now she’s missing.“Girls Night Out” is a quick, easy read.
It was crazy, suspenseful and intriguing.
In addition the events were somewhat unbelievable, regardless, I still found the book entertaining and would recommend it to those looking for a mystery/suspense.
This was a buddy read with Kaceey.
Before I start my review, I just want to say that I'm so happy that I waited until after my trip to Mexico to read this. It soooo would've given me nightmares! Dynamic duo Liz Fenton and Lisa Steinke are back causing trouble for us with  Girls Night Out . Three estranged long-term friends Natalie, Ashley, and Lauren decide to vacation in Tulum, Mexico (been here before and it's AMAZING! Definitely try to make an effort to visit before it becomes the next Cancun) for a girls getaway in hopes of h
. Three estranged long-term friends Natalie, Ashley, and Lauren decide to vacation in Tulum, Mexico (been here before and it's AMAZING!
Definitely try to make an effort to visit before it becomes the next Cancun) for a girls getaway in hopes of healing old wounds and starting the next chapters of their lives together.
When Natalie tries to find Ashley at their shared hotel room, she is nowhere to be found—Ashley is missing!Natalie and Lauren decide to involve the authorities, but also try to retrace their steps and figure out what exactly happened the night before.
^^^^ that’s now me laughing at then meNat, Ashley and Lauren decide to have a girls’ trip to Tulum to try to repair their friendship, which has fallen apart.
Yes, Mexico has gangs and violence and bad people and you could get killed BUT SO DOES EVERY OTHER COUNTRY, MOTHERFUCKERS!!
Just like every country has bad, every country also has good and this book touched on none of the good and beauty of Mexico and it’s people.
The amount of times I read lines like “*insert bad thing here* this is mexico after all” filled my travel loving soul with rage.
Thanks to NetGalley and the publishers for a free, electronic ARC of this novel.  In a desperate attempt to rekindle their dying friendship, Natalie, Lauren and Ashley take a vacation to Tulum, Mexico, a resort town known for its restorative properties. When Ashley goes missing after a girl’s night out, Lauren and Natalie must try and recover their foggy, alcohol-infused memories, as well as come to terms with their own secrets and feelings, and try to discover what happened to Ashley. Did she
In a desperate attempt to rekindle their dying friendship, Natalie, Lauren and Ashley take a vacation to Tulum, Mexico, a resort town known for its restorative properties.
Liz Fenton and Lisa Steinke, authors of “The Good Widow”, return with “Girls’ Night Out”.
Lauren, Natalie and Ashley are grown women who abandon their husbands and families to travel to a resort in Mexico to try and rekindle a friendship that should have been dissolved years ago.
Ashley is a completely unlikable character, she is completely selfish, shallow and self-centred and without Lauren and Natalie, she has absolutely no appealing characteristics.
After the halfway point, I found this novel difficult to put down.
Liz and Lisa's GIRLS NIGHT OUT is a strong follow-up to the bestselling THE GOOD WIDOW. Three friends go on a girls' trip to Mexico to try to repair their friendship. But when one of them goes missing after a night out drinking--and fighting--they're left trying to puzzle out what happened the night before. Sparkling characters, real friendships, and a fast-paced mystery: what more could you ask for in your next read?
A story about friendship and betrayal that’s beautifully written and stays with you after reading it.
Lauren, Ashley and Natalie are friends that are not as close as they used to be, so Ashley invites them to stay with her in Mexico hoping that they can build bridges between them, but it will take more than sea, sand and Sangria’s when friends are keeping secrets from each other!!After a night out with local Marco, Natalie wakes up the next day on the beach alone and Ashley is missing.
Has something happened to her or has she run away!!I loved the dynamics of this friendship, 3 close friends but 1 will always feel left out.
We all have secrets that we may not want to share and this book just blew me away.
The tension mounted even more when the police arrived, but up until that point, I didn’t think there was that much suspense.GIRLS’ NIGHT OUT gives wonderful reasons for friendships to repair themselves and for women to support each other.GIRLS’ NIGHT OUT was suspenseful because of the missing friend, but the majority of the book was about repairing friendships and revealing secrets.Most of the secrets dealt with domestic abuse which is an excellent topic to get out in the open.
This had many of the same aspects that worked so well for me in TGW; it’s extremely fast paced and exciting, it’s addictive the kind of book you can’t put down until you finish and it’s set in another stunning location that the authors bring to life!At its core this book is about female friendships and not just the fun, sunny side.
You get to hear from all three ladies and it flips from the day they arrive to the morning after the night Ashley disappears.
Look, I'm not going to go deep into the plot - I'm going to explain why this book resonated with me.Best friendships are like marriages and family - there are ups and downs.
It's easy to take your irritations and frustrations out on the people you know best.
Jokes aside, this resonated with me because I happen to have two best girl friends - we do a girls trip every year and there have definitely been ups and downs and drama and yada yada throughout our 20 plus years of friendship.
I did want to know what happened to Ashley - this ending.
Their relationships become more and more strained over the week, and then on the last night one of the women, Ashley, disappears, leaving Lauren and Natalie frantically looking for her..
Or has something more sinister happened?This book is told in alternating chapters from before the fateful night and from after it, with the women taking turns to narrate.
Honestly though I found none of them sympathetic with each of them in turn trying to blame the others for their unhappy lives.All in all, the majority of this novel is about three stubborn, selfish cows that spend their whole time arguing.
One of my top 5 reads this year.
This story rocked me!Ashley,Natalie and Lauren try to heal deep wounds and plan a girls getaway to Tulum Mexico.
Old wounds,secrets and their choices lead them in other directions.
When Ashley disappears they try to find her and figure out what happened.
Only one of them can't remember anything from that night.
Worse was it actually one of them?.This had me on the edge of my seat up all night reading it.
Intense story of friendships, the choices they make and the consequences from it.
After all it is Mexico.
I LOVED LOVED every second I spent with this book!
From the very first line to the very last, I couldn't put this book down.
This is the trip to put everything back to the way it was before everything that happened to them, happened.2) Tulum, Mexico, a place for healing and spirituality.
Perfect for three friends who need to heal their relationship.3) Lots and lots of alcohol = REAL feelings and truth come out.
EVERYTHING.I love how this story is told too.
Each chapter is told by a friend while on the trip.
