https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/588242.Kiss_of_the_Spider_Woman
Puig revolutionizes the way the novel is framed: his awesome work is a play, a stream of consciousness, a historic document, a research paper, a review of films...
it's ALL these things in one poignant & EXTREMELY hard-to-put-down novel!The two main characters (Molina, the sad, deceitful & complex "Spider Woman," who lures and tests the headstrong Valentin) hold entire worlds inside of them.
They are both outcasts, tragic creatures, perhaps two of the most human characters ever devised in these terrains.
But this one is better.PS The Broadway production of "Spiderwoman" is one of the most underrated plays in ALL of human history!
-- What are you reading?-- Kiss of the Spider Woman.-- Hey, I've heard of that.-- Likely because of the movie that was made of it.-- How is the book?-- Fantastic. Essentially all dialogue, but somehow all the more descriptive for it.-- Huh. You gonna finish those fries?
I mean, I don't know, maybe I'm just cranky, because I don't think that's necessarily a bad point if that was where he was going with it, but I can't help it, the footnotes just really screwed things up for me.
I did really like this book, which is beautifully written, and I'd love to see the movie, which I bet is good, especially since this reads like a script -- or actually scripts.
Chissà perché la tristezza la si sente sempre lì?"E cosa può aiutare ad allentare le tensioni se non il raccontarsi una storia?Il cinema.La magia del cinema trasporta, attraverso le parole di Molina, in un mondo immaginario costellato di vamp, donne bellissime, situazioni surreali, donne pantere, zombie, che sollevano l'anima e lo spirito dei due reietti.Ma soprattutto, consentono a Molina e Valenin di scambiare posizioni e punti di vista sulla vita, sull'amore, sulla politica e sul sacrificio per difendere i propri ideali, sulla propria identità reale e sociale.Forza e tenerezza.Ribellione e sottomissione.Due personalità agli antipodi provano a comprendersi, per sostenersi reciprocamente.
Conversation, transcripts, reports, foot notes, movie summaries, everything but the usual descriptive linear way.
The story is about two prisoners - Arregui, with political charges, and Molina, for 'corrupting the youth' - that is, homosexuality.
Of course the main plot twist, (view spoiler)[that Molina is a spy for the prison warden, also complicates matters.
Puig makes the assertion that Molina imitates the romantic heroes of his movies, and ties this into the strange psychosexual theories about homosexuality he scatters in the footnotes.
(hide spoiler)]Even despite all these bizarre theories about love, which seem so silly now.
En una única pregunta detonante.—Dejas de lado las historias de cómo llegaron allí, el por qué, y a dónde quieren ir a dar y dejas de lado la técnica peculiar en la que está escrita toda la novela, y que aún así, podría pasar por ensayos sobre la homosexualidad, sinopsis de películas y, entre otras cosas, sin dejar de lado la historia de los protagonistas, sus inquietudes y demás y todo eso.—Ah, bueno… es que yo sólo quería empezar el planteamiento.—No, no, pues hay que ser más cuidados al plantear planteamientos para que no andes dejando tantos cabos sueltos y hagas una reseñita superficial con toda tu palabrería.—Bueno, es que tampoco se trata de hacer la súper-reseña.—Ya, ya sé.
I looked the movie up just now and was surprised to find that they actually filmed the movie scenes that Molina (Hurt) relate from memory to Valentin (Julia).
(I use the pronoun "he" because that's how Molina is seen by most characters in the book, and consequently the pronoun the author uses.) Valentin is imprisoned for being a political deviant, a left wing extremist.
But he also believes that relations between a man and a woman need to be on equal terms.To pass the time in their cell, Molina narrates from memory his favourite movies while these two disparate prisoners slowly get to know each other.
"E’ fantastico il potere di una parola" (Pube angelicale) ”E cosa c’è di male se uno è debole come una donna? Perché un uomo o chiunque, un cane, o una checca, non può essere sensibile se ne ha voglia”“Non so, ma a un uomo esagerare in quel senso può essere di ostacolo”“Per cosa? Per torturare?”“No, per farla finita con i torturatori”  Argentina, 1974. Due uomini, diversi per carattere e stile di vita, si ritrovano compagni di cella. Valentín lotta in clandestinità contro il regime militare, stu
Il primo film che Molina racconta a Valentín.L’angusto spazio della cella e la solitudine spingono i due uomini a trovare un terreno comune: Molina intrattiene Valentín raccontandogli le trame dei film che più ha amato; per entrambi diventa il primo passo verso una conoscenza profonda che si trasforma in un’amicizia intima e autentica.
O, utilizzando le categorie psicoanalitiche cui lo stesso Puig fa esplicito riferimento, si assiste alla nascita di un IO a cui contribuiscono entrambi i protagonisti, ciascuno portatore prevalente di un’altra istanza psichica (ES per Molina, SuperIO per Valentín): diventa quindi possibile vivere le passioni e porsi degli ideali senza esserne distrutti, anche se solo nello spazio limitato della cella.
Maravilloso.
As Molina works his way through several movies, the reader begins to notice that they cover a wide range of themes, including political awareness, power, questions of identity and the true nature of the characters, sacrifice, betrayal, and the nature of relationships, but even more importantly, they are all about different forms of repression and imprisonment.
The films recounted by Molina in this novel provide great insight into various means of repression forced on others by outside forces; it is also, in part, a story which examines the ways in which different people seek to transcend their own forms of imprisonment.
Better than I thought it'd be, very creepy and original. It wasn't the most memorable book in the world, though.
Hay libros que llegan en el momento adecuado. Justo cuando deben llegar. Puig tiene el diálogo en la sangre. Y, además, a construyó una historia que yo mismo repliqué parcialmente medio siglo después.Bellísimo.
I am legit stunned.Rating and review later. Right now I am speechless.
Manuel Puig had an unusual structure and premise for his book, which at first was highly intriguing, but soon became ponderous and lost it's way.
His style has been described as experimental and creative, and maybe that's the case, but it felt more like a watered down script, consisting only of lines of dialogue to tell the story, but with the disadvantage of no sense of place or mood.
The premise of having the whole novel set in a prison cell seemed to have potential and indeed early on I felt a great novel was on the cards.
It seems like a book that will end up dividing opinion.
Esses mesmos que bradarão se essa criança estiver em perigo de ser adoptada por uma família de homossexuais...Se a sociedade não fosse tão hipócrita e defensora de valores sem qualquer valor, o mundo seria um lugar muito mais bonito, sem ter de haver homens e mulheres que vivem escondidos atrás da culpa e do medo de serem quem são.Esta minha conversa não interessa nada, mas também não interessam as notas do Manuel Puig, porque este romance não é sobre homossexuais.
Non mi è facile parlarne, poiché l’emozione nasce esclusivamente dagli impercettibili cambiamenti nel rapporto tra due uomini che sono reclusi in una cella, da cui escono solo per brevi attimi, scanditi e separati da una serie di “trame” di film che Molina racconta a Valentín.
E di questo non si pentirà mai, tanto che nella bellissima chiusa del romanzo dirà, rivolgendosi nel delirio che segue alla tortura a Marta, la donna che ama, ma in realtà parlando a Molina, che ormai è morto: “Ah quanto t’amo!
Ringrazio @Ale per la recensione che ha scritto nel Giro del Mondo, perchè non avevo mai sentito nominare nè il libro nè l'autore e quindi se non fosse stato per lei non lo avrei mai letto.La struttura è molto originale e mi ha colpito il fatto che, nonostante il libro sia costituito completamente da dialoghi, non abbia mai sentito la mancanza di narrazioni e descrizioni.
Insomma, Puig non solo è riuscito a scrivere un libro solo con dialoghi, ma è riuscito a scrivere un bel libro solo con dialoghi.Carinissime le descrizioni dei film, realistici e ben riusciti i personaggi.
4.5
You're kind of swept up in the dialogue between unidentifiable characters in an unidentifiable setting--and you're left in this limbo for a good 20 or so pages.
The question of sexual and gender politics really pulled me into the story--particularly insofar as Molina is the sexual 'deviant' but has the more conventional views on sex/gender roles; moreover, you have the 'official' footnotes alerting you both to Puig's presence and absence as a passer of judgment--and what do they mean in the context of the text?
Oh, and I *loved* Molina's film/story-telling--so wonderful.
An incredible novel.

Una novela no convencional, distinta, elocuente y sencilla .- Un diálogo entre dos presos (uno político y otro homosexual ) que lleva implícito el conflicto emocional de cada uno; temores y sueños que hilvanan sus conversaciones alternadas con historias cinematográficas contadas por uno de ellos para amortiguar el duro paso del tiempo. Esa relación que se crea bajo las extremas condiciones va a construir  un lazo emocional fortísimo que llevará su espíritu  a extremos inverosímiles pero necesarios para compensar los sentimientos  que ha desatado el sacrificio compartido.
Totalmente spiazzante, dall'inizio alla fine.
Most everything about this odd book is enjoyable: the dialogue is crisp and never flat, the characters believably drawn, and the film plots that comprise much of the storytelling are told with startling freshness.
And yet, Kiss of the Spider Woman is strangely, almost resolutely, pointless.
The use of these footnotes is meant to destabilize our distinction between the truth of the novel and the fictions of reality.
One thing Kiss of the Spider Woman has going for it is rhythm; Puig is a master of dialogue.
Kiss of the Spider Woman is a book confused on one side by its strict romanticism and on the other by its strict cynicism.
no comment.i have a few rules regarding bookface. one of 'em being that you just don't write a book report within a month of DFJ reporting on the same book. i mean, c'mon. it'd be like singing a duet with morrissey. or crossing swords with john holmes. or moving into the kremlin directly after stalin. or going scotch for scotch with christopher hitchens... you're only gonna look like an asshole when compared to a master.
На екрана - двама души в една килия, диалогът им, плюс многоточията. В киносалона - авторът, преводачът-нинджа, аз и читателят, заел книгата преди мен от библиотеката и подчертавал тънко с молив. Голям филм.
Una novela extraordinaria. La había leído como hace diez años, pero me gustó mucho más esta segunda. Manuel Puig es un escritor espectacular.
The book opens with a description of a scene - one person is describing a woman and how you notice something odd about her  she's not a woman like all the othersWhat about her eyes a second disembodiment voice asks.
One chapter down and I've learnt little more than two names.Slowly, ever so slowly, more is revealed, they are two men sharing a prison cell, Molina the story teller has been imprisoned for sexual improprietary with a minor and seeing as he is gay the judge seized the opportunity to throw the proverbial book at him.
I haven't seen the movie but I was not surprised by this: Molina is a difficult role for any actor.Molina here is a gay guy who is in a Latin American prison for child molestation.
But they found one thing to share: their love for stories, specifically those told in movies.
Molina loves to tell these stories based on the movies he had seen, Valentin survives the monotony of each day, especially during the nights he couldn't sleep, listening to Molina.
A wonderful love story, told in such a unique way
porque este sueño es corto, pero es feliz3,5Es verdaderamente sorprendente la habilidad de Puig para definir a sus dos protagonistas exclusivamente a base de diálogos, tratados además de forma totalmente natural, apenas afectada. La relación entre ambos rezuma una ternura que contrasta perfectamente con lo sórdido del contexto, una celda durante la dictadura militar argentina. Las películas que le cuenta Molina a Valentín para hacer más llevaderas las interminables horas en prisión (serie B de l
Las películas que le cuenta Molina a Valentín para hacer más llevaderas las interminables horas en prisión (serie B de los 40', de las cuales en realidad sólo había visto La Mujer Pantera) no sólo estructuran una narración bastante inusual: a través de ellas y a partir de las impresiones o detalles que Molina y Valentín destacan, el lector va comprendiendo los sentimientos que forman sus respectivos caracteres; así, Molina se acuerda de la letra de los boleros, da una gran importancia a las miradas o a los peinados de las actrices, y se recrea en la exaltación de sus sentimientos, mientras que Valentín trata de analizar todo desde un punto de vista social y político.
Es este, en realidad, el verdadero encanto de la novela.
This book is a modern masterpiece, and something everyone should read once.
The main characters, Valentine and Molina, are slowly defined by their reactions to the world and each other, their relationship building and layering until they finally come together in a moment of passion- or is it desperation?- and then continue on to the heartbreaking, eviscerating ending that leaves you no question as to why this fascinating novel has haunted so many people for so long.
Deeply human, incredible humane, this is a book that changes the way the reader sees life.
