https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18526938-murder-underground
Mavis Doriel Hay only wrote three mysteries, but was popular in her time, and British Library Crime Classics are to be applauded for bringing long out of print novels, and authors, back to our attention.
Miss Pongleton is not much mourned by her fellow boarders, but they are intrigued by the mystery of her death – not least as Bob Thurlow, the young man of maid Nellie, is implicated in the crime.
Even worse, Basil is a young man whose alibi is decidedly suspicious and this concerns Betty Watson, who also lives at the Frampton and who is keen on him.
Still, I enjoyed reading it, although the feckless Basil and other over-the-top characters make so many ridiculous decisions that the novel becomes more of a slapstick comedy than a Golden Age cozy.In Murder Underground, first released in 1934, the irascible but wealthy spinster Euphemia Pongleton meets her end in a Tube station, strangled by her own dog’s leash.
Even so, readers, even 80 years later, will still enjoy this quick-read, as long as they curb their expectations; therefore, I am still grateful that the British Library has republished the three detective novels Mavis Doriel Hay wrote.
But unfortunately Mavis Doriel Hay is no Patrick Hamilton, though it has to be said that the best parts of the novel are her descriptions of this suffocating world and its denizens who are “apt to appear in the foreground of one’s daily view unpleasantly larger than life but rather less than human.” There is, for example, “a middle-aged lady who liked to accentuate the gaunt strangeness of her appearance by unfashionable clothes” – all hand-crafted and redolent of sheep – and a gentleman “greyly respectable in melancholy solitude”.
And much of the book is taken up with the muddling antics of a buffoon – one Basil Pongleton, a tedious nephew – whose exploits cause mystery and suspicion amongst the police and other characters...but not the reader, since we are already privy to his antics.
3.5*I enjoyed the setting and characters in this Golden Age mystery.
This isn't really a 'detective' story, even of the cozy variety, since none of the main characters do any real investigating and the police are mostly "off stage".
Instead, the reader pieces together clues from the actions, statements and reactions of the various people involved.
The author does at one point deliberately prevent the reader from information available to the characters but by that time I had already a firm suspicion.
I did like the way it all came together in the end & the brief glimpse into the police thinking that came right before that.
Published by British Library Crime Classics and downloaded via NetGalley.When Miss Pongleton is found murdered on the stairs of Belsize Park station, her fellow-boarders in the Frampton Hotel are not overwhelmed with grief at the death of a tiresome old woman.
Even though I guessed the culprit quite early on, it was a delight to watch all the pieces of clues knit together so seamlessly.An enjoyable read for anyone who likes the classic mysteries.If you like the review and would like to read reviews on other books I have made, visit my blog at www.finalchapterreadersgroup.wordpres...
Miss Euphemia Pongleton is found dead, strangled with her own dog lead, on the stairs at Belsize Park underground station.
She was a boarder at the Frampton, where her fellow residents are at first shocked and then curious.
Over the next few days, the police try to untangle alibis, red herrings, misleading statements and misguided attempts to cover up for loved ones.
Meanwhile, the boarders of the Frampton take their own steps to resolve the crime.A lively and amusing Golden Age mystery.
There is even a sweet little map of Belsize Park station.

This is a classic British who done it; written by an author who wrote only a few mysteries. When one of the lodgers at Frampton house is discovered murdered in a tube station almost everyone is a suspect. Due to the victim's irascibility she could have unlimited enemies. This is fun, compelling mystery and several of the characters share names with rolls on the 1970s British TV show Are You Being Served including Slocumb and Grange(r).
The police investigations are almost completely sidelined in this story, as residents and friends of residents of a boarding house try to escape suspicion and solve the murder of a fellow resident.Frankly, I think all the young women in this story would do well by ditching their respective young men, who caused them a great deal of stress and bother for not much reason at all.
In 1934’s Murder Underground by Mavis Doriel Hay, Miss Euphenia Pongleton goes to ride the London Underground to visit the dentist and, deciding to walk the 220 stairs down to the bottom, she gets strangled with her dog’s leash before she gets to the bottom.
Promptly, the police arrest Bob Thurlow, the suitor of Nellie, the maid of Miss Pongleton, when they find a brooch in an envelope in her bag.
So the police decide that Thurlow murdered Miss Pongleton just for the brooch and got too scared to look for the brooch once he killed the woman.
When they read their evening papers they must have cursed themselves for being so unobservant, but doubtless many of them made up for it by copious inventiveness and told their friends how they had sensed tragedy in the air or noticed an anxious look in Miss Pongleton’s eyes.”A Friday morning in 1934 seemed just as usual, people hurrying off to their daily toil, when a bundle of clothes on the stairs at Belsize tube station, turns out to be the body of Miss Euphemia Pongleton.
Considering how very much I love these old books and British murder mysteries in general, overall this one was, like the dead woman, Miss Euphemia Pongleton, a bit tiresome.
There we discover that while these people feel sorry that she met such a terrible end, they're also realistic, with one woman noting that "It would be hypocritical to pretend that any one of us is overwhelmed at the removal of Miss Pongleton." This conversation is very lively, with a novelist, Mrs. Daymer, applying her "expert" knowledge of the police, of investigations, and of the victim herself while "surveying the possibilities of the situation." The other boarders voice their own opinions or come up with logical questions that are discussed in turn, each one speculating on motive, means and opportunity.
I really enjoyed this humorous romp set in mid 1930's London. This is one of a series of murder mysteries from this period by 'forgotten' authors which has been reissued by the British Library. I was going to do a review but then I read this one on the back of the book by Dorothy L Sayers.'This detective novel is much more than interesting. The numerous characters are well differentiated, and include one of the most feckless, exasperating and lifelike literary men that ever confused a trail.'Couldn't have put it better myself Dorothy!
A cross between a Christie and a Sayers, this is a republished novel by the lesser known Mavis Doriel Hay. Based on the murder of a dottie old bird at Belsize Park on the Northern Line, it's a fairly traditional who dunnit. I guessed relatively early on who the culprit was. Enjoyable, but for me wasn't quite up to Miss Marple standards.
Having read and enjoyed some of the other British Crime library offerings 'The lake district Murder' I've been picking off the rest largely as part of kindle unlimited.
I had high hopes for this as Dorothy L Sayers rated it highly apparently - I have no idea why - maybe it was in her religious phase and she was hoping it would turn people away from crime fiction and back to the bible!It's dreadful; slow, turgid, containg cardboard characters with ridiculous names.
Some authors are destined to be quickly forgotten and this one really should have remained so.
Read Dorothy L Sayers or Agatha Christie, skip this
3.5 stars. #BLCCchallenge
More humor than mystery,it is an enjoyable romp with a slapstick ending.
This is a British Library Crime Classics novel.If someone asked me whether or not they should read this book, I would say that it would be enjoyed more as an example of the early style of crime detection novels.
If you like that old style of writing and crime solving, yes, absolutely you should read this book.
I don't know why I love those little hidden gems of maps and other such things tucked away in a novel like this, but love them I do!Yes, this book is old fashioned in its writing techniques and language.
On the other hand, the digressions are pretty frustrating and didn't make this a very compelling read.I also just like the overall idea of the British Library Crime Classic series of reprints of forgotten titles from the 1920's & 1930's (which the series describes as the "Golden Age").
.Trivia Note: The actual Poisoned Pen Press edition cover has a piece of a broken "OUT" sign just visible under the Front Cover banner which is not seen in the British Library edition, but even the official url page doesn't show that.
The story reflects the class distinctions of the time it was written (1934), and though it describes its scenes from a firmly middle-class point of view and reflects these distinctions in the speech patterns given to different characters it generally avoids what we would now see as a patronising approach.
One character in particular, Mrs. Birtle in Coventry uses a series of amusing made-up words - complacid, jocacious, congerated iron - "for I always think that long words sound genteel".
I look forward to seeing how she will use the conventions of such a story.
She lives at the Frampton private hotel and many of her fellow residents as well as her own nearest and dearest come under suspicion, especially her niece and nephew who both stand to benefit from her will which she changes frequently according to which one of them is in favour at that moment.This is a case where, as one of the police characters says, they could really do without some of the information with which they are bombarded.
This novel of detection from the Golden Age of Crime Fiction sees Euphemia Pongleton, who despite her early demise features massively in the tale, murdered on the stairs leading down to Belsize Park underground station in London.
Not surprisingly, therefore, all of them come under suspicion from the police, who despite investigating the crime have a low profile in the story, with there being no particular detective or police officer taking the lead.Indeed, there is no leading amateur investigator either although Mrs Daymer is often to the forefront and other residents of the Frampton are always willing to put in their views in an attempt to discover the killer.
Loved the chapter titles and the many colorful nicknames for person and place.
And the book itself is gorgeous (which is why it jumped off the display table at Hatchards and into my arms!) and includes maps of the station and its surroundings.Will definitely be taking the stairs at Belsize Park the next time I am in London.And will be back to shop at Hatchards since they do the best display tables in town.
The remodeled Foyles is bigger and brighter with more stock than Hatchards and definitely worth a browse and buy but Hatchards is much more loving and intimate in its selection and presentation.
I do like Golden Age crime writers and am looking forward to exploring some of the hidden gems in this British Library series, however I feel there is a reason this novel may have remained unearthed. It has all the ingredients of a classic crime tale, but ultimately it seems hollow. Some of the characters are interchangeable, with only Basil, the wayward nephew having any kind of grip on the reader. I found the gentle mocking of some of the servants and the landlady a hoot! Worth a read but not in the "A" league of Christie et al.
I hadn't ever heard of Mavis Doriel Hay....even though I love British mysteries. I can't remember where I came across this, perhaps it was recommended by Amazon. However it came to my attention, I'm glad it did.This was a very fun read, even if a long time mystery reader will probably figure out the culprit before it is revealed. The introduction indicates that Hay didn't write very mysteries, but I think I will look up her other books.
For a book of its age (I have read a lot from this era) I found the writing style quite fresh, and although some of the characters were a little two dimensional, many were nicely drawn. I did guess 'who done it' but enjoyed watching how they tried to keep suspicion from falling on themselves. Only disappointment was the finding of a vital clue in a scrapbook - too much of a stretch and simply unnesesary.
Miss Euphemia Pongleton of the Frampton Private Hotel is found dead on the stairs of the Belsize Underground station. Not well liked so there are a few suspects including the possible beneficiaries of her will.Unfortunately I found the majority of the characters annoying, with a too talky and repetitive style of writing which was probably indicative of the style of the 1930's (The book was written in 1934).A NetGalley Book
I liked this 1930s murder mystery, probably because I knew setting for the story. But I didn't enjoy it as much as The Cornish Coast Murder. That said, I found it entertaining enough to read over a few days, whereas The Cornish Coast Murder I read within 24 hours over a couple of days.
A nice 1930s English mystery, nothing to knock your socks off but satisfying if you're craving a good old-fashioned English whodunit you haven't read before.
Proper old fashioned crime story. Likeable characters, clever and funny, loved it.
