https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/148934.Over_My_Dead_Body
When a young Yugoslavian woman shows up asking the detective to help her compatriot and friend with the trouble over accusations of a theft, Nero Wolfe refuses right away without bothering to listen to her pleas.
The woman drops a bomb - literally speaking - which left both him and Archie Goodwin speechless (as well as yours truly when I read it the first time).
Nero Wolfe has to start the investigation which became personal for him and a little later for Archie Goodwin as well.
Speaking of the latter, Archie Goodwin shows himself a good detective on his own right, not on Nero Wolfe level, but quite competent nonetheless.
But, this being a Nero Wolfe story there is a murder at the fencing school while Archie is there.
He also finds something that makes his own situation look very bad.This is one of the most complex, convoluted, and political of the Nero Wolfe stories that I have read but it is still entertaining and enjoyable due in large part to the relationships and interplay among the various characters.
And here I always thought you went to the supermarket and bought a bottle!Nero Wolfe stories are always an enjoyable and nostalgic trip into a different time.
He said it was because he didn't have any idea who did it and he figured if he stayed near Wolfe, then things would certainly become clear.
Archie displayed more brilliance than usual, but he just used his brains to make sure he was following Wolfe's instructions.Others have mentioned the frequent use of 1930s slang in this series.
I'm less sure, for instance, that "alphabet piano" was the slang of the times, than simply Archie's way of referring to a typewriter.
That sort of thing and that Archie and Wolfe had to use more code (because there were always others hanging around) kept me on my reading toes.This series continues to be enjoyable.
wow who knew that Nero Wolfe had a DAUGHTER and was a freedom fighter in his youth. WOW and learned even more about the area of Serbia/Croatia.
This is a serviceable Nero Wolfe mystery newly available for Kindle. Just right for reading on a trip, I thought. The mystery revolves around Wolfe's long lost adopted daughter and intrigue in the Balkans. However this book didn't grab me like some Wolfe mysteries. Perhaps because the reasons for my trip were not all happy ones, no book could have been 5 stars.
Not as good as previous books, but ok.I love some of the things Archie does and the way he and Nero think.
If you’re new to this series, I suggest reading Fer-De-Lance and Some Buried Caesar before reading this - only because I think they are better.
They are all stand alones.Two female immigrants come to New York and teach fencing.
One is accused of stealing from a customer.
Two men end up dead.The audiobook narrator Michael Prichard was good.DATA:Narrative mode: 1st person Archie.
Unabridged audiobook length: 7 hrs and 23 mins.
Setting: 1938 New York City.
Book copyright: 1939.
Rex Stout's Nero Wolfe books are always delightful reads, with his genius melding of Holmesian ratiocination and Marlovian tough-guy bark.
This one is a little more complicated than some, with a complex geopolitical background and a large array of characters.
Wolfe and his narrating leg man Archie Goodwin attempt to solve the murder of a fencing student, but the novel delves more than any other in the series (as I recall) into Wolfe's own personal history as a young man.
Stout knows how to write with verve and style, and his plotting is first rate.
A very good entry in the series.
Rex Stout is one of my favorite authors, so it’s sad to be disappointed in a Nero Wolfe novel.
There’s some vague international subterfuge which doesn’t really have to make sense.
Archie makes two pretty successful tricks, and Wolfe doesn’t have any big tricks up his sleeve.
We do learn that Fritz is terrified of women, which explains why he stays with Wolfe for decades.
It was good, but pretty forgettable, which is why I’m going into detail in my review.
There’s nothing worse than reading a book and then, years later, forgetting what it was about.
While Wolfe is back to his typical self (not leaving home as in the previous 2!), some of his personal background is revealed in this one. Archie seemed a bit more hardboiled than I remember! The series remains poised on the edge between hardboiled & Golden Age in style, a tricky feat that Stout manages to perfection.
Balkan politics of the just barely pre-World War II days keeps elbowing to the front of this book, when the reader wants more about Nero Wolfe's long lost (adopted, he tells Archie) daughter, who suddenly appears in New York asking for his help when she's accused first of theft, and then of murder.
Naturally, Wolfe is sure she's innocent, once he's convinced himself that she is his daughter, even after a second body is found in her apartment.
The international aspect--and pressures from on high--keep Inspector Cramer chomping his cigar, and unusually willing to let Wolfe do his work for him.
I am a hopeless Rex Stout fan, so I am almost never disappointed in these classic novels. In this book, international intrigue involving the Balkins in the 1940's bring two immigrants to the U.S. One of them claims she is the adopted daughter of Nero Wolfe, famous PI. When a murder occurs where the girl works, Nero and Archie become involved. I enjoy the banter between Nero and Archie, Wolfe's right hand man. I enjoyed the twists and turns in this book that kept me guessing till the end.
I'm a big fan of Rex Stout's Nero Wolfe series, but haven't read one in quite a while. Wolfe and Archie Goodwin are, in my estimation, the best detective team since Holmes and Watson. Over My Dead Body isn't a strong detective story per se, but is a hugely enjoyable escapade related in Goodwin's incomparably witty and buoyant narration.
Another fine Nero Wolfe mystery, this time involving a young woman suspected of murder and claiming to be his long-lost daughter. I confess that I sometimes tire of Archie Goodwin; he can be too much of a wise-ass and it's hard to get past the various bigotries of the day that he displays so vividly. Still, the mysteries are always good and Wolfe is a unique character.
I am reading through all the Nero Wolfe novels and this is the best I have hit so far. The mystery is a little simple but it is fun.I don't think this book would be a good introduction to the series but if you read a couple of these this one should make you happy.
Nero Wolfe doesn't disappoint. The NYC life, Archie Goodwin and their relationship with the police makes it almost like a carnival.
Nearly too many suspects to keep up with. Unique plot based on (I guess) Mr. Stout’s experience in politics. Discovered that Mr. Stout is where most of those classic detective icons come from.
This book was exciting, the mystery is complex and confusing, and I think it may be my favorite in the series so far.
This book reveals a lot of Nero's past.
Fencing, international intrigue, lots of inspector Kramer, the inside dirt on Nero, classy call girls and swarming stupid flatfoots ...
But in context it's about the fact that the mystery has an international angle which means extra trouble for Kramer and he is itching about that, not really jumping off on different ethnic groups.
With the help of his assistant, Archie Goodwin, she is soon off the hook, but then bodies begin to turn up and the real detective work begins.
By the time I reached the end, I didn't really care who was the murderer--as the book is more about the relationship between Nero Wolfe, Archie, and others than it is about crime solving.
Written in 1940, the language is occasionally and appropriately dated, but marvelous in dialogue.
If you don't care too much about "who done it," the dialogue will bring you a frequent smile, e.g., "Nero Wolfe?
He never goes anywhere anytime for anybody"--Archie Goodwin
This was one of the first Nero Wolfe books I ever read.
But it still has plenty of good exchanges, mostly as always between Wolfe and Archie, and Stout always did a good job with one-shot secondary characters.
Not a main player, the books don't need that, but a recurring and occasionally important character like Lily Rowan.
Reading this book is less fun if one has also read The Black Mountain, and knows what happens in it, and that that is the only other time Carla will ever be referenced in these stories.
Still, on the whole, not a bad time.
I first knew this story from the A&E TV movie starring Maury Chaykin, Timothy Hutton & Bill Smitrovich and it was definitely in my top 3. To find out more details of Wolfe's personal life whilst watching him solve a series of murders through that brilliant episode was fantastic. And now I've read the book and I love this story even more. More depth, more detail, more twists & turns, bringing this wonderful story to life in my imagination supplemented with the visuals from the tv episode. My hats off to Rex Stout!
You've got to love that wit! Both Archie and Nero both. When a young lady, who is foreign, comes to meet with and ask for help she also carries a secret. The secret is - she is Nero's adopted daughter. And she hopes that Nero can help her and her friend who are being falsely accused of theft. But then the bodies start to pile up and theft is the least of their concerns.But with the hint of some international intrigue and the chasing and misdirection, make this a fun one.
I really don't have much to say about this book, other than I liked it. The plot was a bit too international-intrigue for me, but I definitely enjoyed the major twist at the end. There are plenty of great lines in this one, too. I get a real kick out of Rex Stout's use of slang and imagery, and this novel had its fair share. I'm only seven stories into the massive collection of Nero Wolfe stories and I'm having a great time.
Every mystery needs a twist to make it extra interesting and in this one, that twist is Nero Wolfe’s daughter. Her existence comes as a surprise to everyone except (presumably) Wolfe and it adds an extra twist to the story. Wolfe isn’t working to support his orchids, but to keep his daughter out of jail. The mystery itself is solid, but not fantastic.
Number 7 in the series and is a good stereotype for all Wolfe novels. All the essential elements are present: Wolfe doesn't leave the house, Cramer plays a large role, Saul, Fred, and Orrie make appearances, and Archie has plenty of action and one liners. A fun entry into the canon and one that makes me glad of my decision to slowly read through all the Nero Wolfe novels.
I liked this book, it had a cool twist at the end. There were also some timely international references which might point to how closely the world was watching certain countries in 1938 and I found that interesting.
The one with Wolfe's daughter! I liked her a lot and I wish there had been more repercussions from her re-appearance in Wolfe's life. At least mentions in later books about what happened to her.Best part: Archie escaping from the fencing studio out from the under the nose of Cramer and his men.
A sprinkle of international intrigue and some background on Nero Wolfe's origins are highlights of this entry in Stout's series. And Archie's first person narration provides the wit and humor that keep me reading and rereading these books!
Good bookI like Rex Stout's books, in my younger days I read them all the time. I forgot about the outdated slang which is sometimes hard to follow. Otherwise this book was very entertaining.
Excellent, as usual. Reminder: Fencing
Amazing! We learn a bit more about Nero Wolfe. I agree with the book review, written in the Saturday Review near the initial publication: “Swell!”
