https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24384.The_Cricket_in_Times_Square
Type out the first few paragraphs of A Cricket in Times Square as you read them.
Feel the music in your fingers.
2. Turn to the end of the book (if you have read it before!), and type out the last few paragraphs.
(Read this book to a second grader—any second grader—and you’ll see!) Cricket also speaks to the forests and rivers and natural wonders that we carry inside us no matter where we are.
Yet the book also speaks to we lovers of cities, with its great mix of cultures (a cat, a mouse, a cricket, all friends?
I remember my third grade teacher reading this book aloud to us every day after lunch, and I remember really enjoying it, but I could barely remember the main characters when I recently picked it up again!
I fell in love with it while reading it this time, it's such a charming story.
I love this kind of children's book - a self-contained book with appealing characters you root for, amusing escapades, a unique and distinct setting that you grow to know and understand, and an overarching plot that keeps you hooked.
This plot keeps the stories tied together, but the escapades are as intriguing and could be just as easily read on their own.
3.5 stars. Would have been higher but for the kind of painful portrayal of two Chinese gentleman and of Mario's mother; they felt rather like stereotypes.This was one of my favourite stories as a kid. I read this and "Tucker's Countryside" several times over. The characters are gentle and kind, even somewhat greedy Tucker mouse. Harry cat remains sleek and cool on this reread, which doesn't surprise me as that's what cats are.
Charming, sweet, and endearing . . . a timeless juvenile classic celebrating friendship, and learning to embrace challenges by working together to rise above adversity - but yet staying true to one's roots.
It's a good book to read right now (early September) because it ends in September.
(According to the book, crickets chirp most in late summer.
This book spans from the beginning of summer to September.) It is also a good book to read if you are planning a trip to New York City, or even Connecticut (Chester's original home.)The Chinese man's accent is just awful and I cleaned it up when I read this book aloud to my son, but basically it has a good depiction of Chinese people (and people in general) in this book.
A lot to like (loved the scenes that depicted NYC in all its glory), but several instances where characters' actions rang a sour note. They acted one way for chapter upon chapter then said or did something that rang completely untrue. Took you out of the story. In a way, it felt almost like a talented self-published author's first publication. There was a lot to like but it was marred by several glaring mistakes that should have been instantly recognizable.
A lot of the environment is completely recognizable, like the area in the Times Square subway station where Mario's family's newsstand is -- on the pedestrian level where the shuttle train is.
(Acceptably white, European immigrants, but all the same.)Because, I have to deduct major points for the entirely unfortunate Chinatown plotline, in which Mario learns that crickets are "sacred" in China and so finds a Chinese person who of course knows everything about crickets -- um, "clickets" -- and wants to give an unlimited number of free things to a random child, and acts like a crazy person a lot.
Very cute!
It's a pleasant enough diversion, I suppose, apart from its plausibility problems: Chester Cricket ends up travelling from Connecticut to Times Square in a picnic basket, gets claimed by a kid whose folks run a newsstand in the train station, and befriends a mouse who's a bit of a hustler (Tucker, the closest thing to an interesting character in the book) and a quiet, feral (in name only; he acts anything but feral) cat named Harry.
And given that the lifespan of a cricket is mere months--they die in the fall--the book's pretend happy ending of Chester going back to the Connecticut countryside seems disingenuous at best.
This book was dated, written in the 50s I believe, so the old Chinese man in Chinatown spoke with an "l" in lieu of "r"s ("velly" instead of "very", etc.).
That was a bit on the not-so-good side and brought this book down a star, but the rest of the book was really quite sweet.
Cute book, that I could have sworn I read as a child, but remembered very little of it.
I would recommend this book, with the caveat of the less than PC writing of the old Chinese man.
Selden's style and story stand both the test of time and the test of multi-generational readability.
I'll proceed reading the next volumes as my villainous children are just as pleased with this story as I am.By the way, Garth Williams is probably one of the best children's book illustrators in the last century.
I don't mean stories about crickets and mice and all that.
I mean stories for children that are so gently written and done with such a superb hand.
A truly delightful and heartwarming little tale for all ages. It touches upon themes of homesickness, prejudice, fame and friendship between Chester Cricket and his human and animal friends. The perfect story to read on the plane coming home from a New York City vacation!
This is definitely meant for a younger reader, maybe 2-4th grades, but I thought it was such a cute, sweet story of friendship. Reminds me of Charlotte’s Web and Stuart Little.
This was one of my favorites growing up and I recently re-read it. Guess what? It's even better than I remember. A great adventure with engaging characters. My Rating: 5 stars
A cricket, a mouse, and a cat are an unlikely trio--but that's the primary cast of friendy characters in this book.
Chester Cricket is from the country and accidentally ends up in the Times Square subway station in Manhatten.
Surrounded by new friends, Chester is excited to see new sights and experience new things.
And his friends are thrilled to find out about Chester's musical talent.
Primarily ignored by humans, the three animals enjoy unlikely friendships that will be remembered for a long time.I really liked this story.
Another book that I wish I had read when I was younger; although I am still able to enjoy it now.
This was a childhood favorite (I still own my original copy!) and I re-read it both to pass off a reading challenge category and because I'd been wanting to remind myself of the story. The cuteness of the story held up well. The only thing that didn't hold up was the stereotyped and possibly racist characterization of Mario and Chester's Chinese friend.
Because the Owlet fell in love with Trumpet of the Swan (we read it five times in a row!) I bought her this for Christmas. After one more go round with E.B. White we dove in, me hoping to prove that there is more than one good chapter book in the world. There is.Now I just need a third gentle, excellent chapter book about anthropomorphized animals who are musically inclined.
What a delightful story! Sometimes, it really is good to be a kid again.
3.5This one really played with my emotions-- happy then sad then happy then sad.
For 9-13-ish. I didn't like this book because it was sad when Chester left. It also was sad when Chester stopped giving performances. I think it was cute how the trio of animals kept on having parties even if the humans knew they were.
O'Brien.My main criticism is the treatment of a character named Sai Fong, a Chinese gentleman who owns a shop in NYC's Chinatown and plays an active role in the story in two chapters.
I would love to share this story with my kids but how to approach the chapters steeped in racism?
On the one hand, I think this could be an excellent learning moment for teaching my kids to always read critically and reject being spoon-fed racism, no matter how sweet the words or cute the package.
The Cricket in Times Square was one of my favorite books I've read.
The book is about a cricket who finds his life in Times Square.
Also, in the book, there is this kid named Mario.
Mario finds Chester in his parent's shop.
Both Tucker and Harry show Chester around Times Square and he likes it there.
Later in the book, Chester finds out that he has musical talents.
He chirps songs and when Mario finds out, he is surprised that he has a pet that makes music.
Chester soon finds himself back home to Connecticut because Mario thinks that he is unhappy.
A cricket named Chester finds himself in the heart of New York City’s underground Times Square station after he slipped in a picnic basket back in Connecticut.
A young boy named Mario, whose family owns a periodical stand in the subway station, finds the cricket when he hears him chirping late one night.
While in the subway station he makes friends with an arrogant mouse named Tucker and a mellow cat named Harry.
I was incredibly bored reading this book.
It took me way too long to read because I just could not get into it.
When I saw the audio on overdrive, I decided that I wanted to revisit the story.
And while I wasn't as enchanted by it as I remember my younger self being, it was still an enjoyable story.
Here he meets Tucker Mouse and Harry Cat. The three become fast friends and adventures take place.
I can see why I would have enjoyed this so much when I was younger.
It was nice to revist a story that I had loved and to still be able to appreciate it.
The audio was enjoyable and well done.
Harry was my favorite.
I didn't connect with the characters in an emotional way.
It was hard for me to muster enough sympathy to feel for these characters.
I didn't feel a thing when the cricket stopped singing, or wanted to go home.
He was a little TOO good to be truly interesting.
The mouse was annoying, and did a lot of bad things, but was never caught or punished.
The book just never grabbed me, the characters weren't developed well enough, and overall, I just found the book lacking.
Might be a good read for some, but this one was not for me.

I read this with my 10-year-old, and we both thoroughly enjoyed it! In this day and age of social media and the perception that the number of 'likes', comments, and attention we get are what is most important, I loved the message the cricket gave in this book that his influence to just a few in the meadows of Connecticut was just as important to him as his influence to the throngs of thousands in New York City. A great book to read with your kids!
This book was a treat for both my son and me. A neat, clean, heartfelt story. It was ideal for using during a unit study on music, because we would stop whenever a piece of music was mentioned and pull up a youtube video with a recording. That way, we had a fuller experience of the story, and my son got some great exposure to a variety of musical styles.
4.0 This was one of those books that brings back good childhood memories. Nostalgia may make me rate this higher than it should be but it was cute and filled with a heartwarming story. Sometimes it is nice to read a story that isn't filled with angst or major conflict. My youngest son said he would give it 5 stars because it was a good story and he loved the cricket.
My fourth grade teacher read this to us and I remember I really liked it . So I decided to read it with my intervention group . I like to just as much as I did. The vocabulary is great for teaching second grade and the content , is terrific for teaching empathy , friendship and comprehension .
