https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/606714.Shadows_of_Ecstasy
However, "Shadows of Ecstasy" was actually the first novel Williams wrote and the 1933 publication was an extensive revision of the earlier work.
The novel has some interesting features.
By 1933 Williams had greatly improved in his technique but I suspect that the earlier version may have had limitations which he could not effectively overcome and his creative interest may have waned.
And it is possible that, considering the lapse of time which separates the two final novels, Williams had simply become more involved with other areas.While I personally found "Shadows of Ecstasy" weaker than the others, it still offers insights--especially regarding the place of great literature as an ethical value system within Christianity.
I like Williams but this wasn't as good as The Place of the Lion. Still, I enjoyed it. People have asked me what Williams' novels are like. It's pretty hard to describe but they're a bit like C.S. Lewis's last of the space trilogy, That Hideous Strength, only if it had been written by Algernon Blackwood. Then people ask me who Algernon Blackwood was, and since when did Lewis write a space trilogy? :-)
The set-up for what could have been a promising theological thriller in his usual mode is squandered and energy and interest dissipate until the novel doesn't so much end as simply drift off into the bathos of a gun-battle followed by a slow fade-out.
Basically, Williams sets up a situation where a lunatic has decided to destroy Western civilisation because, well, because it's civilised and it goes in for order and science instead of the ecstasy of being and feeling.
And the Superman somehow convinces him that you can only be a real poet if you discard reason and order and plunge into the depths of passion and being.
(See for example T.S. Eliot's introduction to All Hallows' Eve.) Williams seems to have put all his ideas of romantic theology into the mouth of the "bad guy" and then went out of his way to avoid calling him bad.
I think reading Shadows can help one to understand where Charles Wrenn was coming from when he quipped about burning Williams as a heretic.The ideas about Love and how to practice it herein I think are borderline psychologically unhealthy and it is troubling to think that people actually tried (try?) to put them into practice.
At any rate, I've come to terms with the notion that the best way to enjoy Charles Williams' novels is to overlook this fact.
Normally I like Williams' ambiguity -- I think it's part of his stories' power.
A story that is about living in an ambiguous world, where no morality is certain, out of the necessity of your own being.
Living the life you have to, in the face of the choices you can't control.
Is physical action, such as murder, truly irrelevant if the perpetrator burns with what, for lack of other words, seems terrifying similar to the Joy of the Lord and the Glory of God?
What does one do with a book, thrust in the middle of this collection, that seems to be about the necessity of living first and foremost for oneself?
My new least favorite Charles Williams book.
Williams seems fascinated by it, but does not convey his fascination in such a way that the reader also becomes fascinated.
I suspect it is also a tale about his friends, his fellow Inklings.
Perhaps Tolkien is Roger, Lewis is Caithness and the O fellow who's name I can't remember that wrote primarily nonfiction and perhaps some poetry is Bernard.
As I have only read the book through once, and not under the best conditions, and also have not done extensive bibliographical studies on the inklings I of course can not be sure, but I have my suspicions.
I was liking this book pretty well when I thought good power was coming out of Africa to confront the Western world. Then it turned out that evil power was coming out of Africa to confront the Western world. So that was a big disappointment.However, I did like the rest of the book. In fact, disappointment aside, I'd place it in my two or three favorite Williams novels. The main characters are interesting and imperfect and misguided. The antagonist is especially interesting, a particularly good portrayal of a powerful (but not all-powerful) and dispassionate Antichrist.
This one, his first published novel, is not his best. It starts off well enough, but towards the end there are too many long monologues explaining Considine's philosophy.
This isn't as emotionally involving a novel as  All Hallows' Eve , but it's unusual and memorable. In a subdued style that reads a little like an homage to H.G. Wells, Williams depicts a military and magical attack on Europe (and Western civilization and rational thought in general) led by a character who, as far as I know, has rarely appeared in fantasy novels: a secular humanist fascist pagan superman Messiah, who is the smartest and most honest person in the world. Williams gives equal weight
In a subdued style that reads a little like an homage to H.G. Wells, Williams depicts a military and magical attack on Europe (and Western civilization and rational thought in general) led by a character who, as far as I know, has rarely appeared in fantasy novels: a secular humanist fascist pagan superman Messiah, who is the smartest and most honest person in the world.
Williams gives equal weight to the possibilities that this person is the Antichrist, or that he's closer to the truth than anyone else, or both.
Clive Barker in his later fantasy writing and James Blaylock both carry on this tradition in very different styles.
His followers begin a revolutionary movement to destroy European civilization."By about half-way through the novel, it becomes apparent that Williams is re-working the life of Jesus.
The immortal "adept" is a type of Christ, though judgment about whether he is good or Antichrist is skillfully suspended, even to the end.
Hence we get a fascinating commentary on the life of Jesus by Williams' variations on the themes of Judas' betrayal, the resurrection of Lazarus, the last supper, the resurrection of Christ himself.
It was both informative and disconcerting to see that sort of racism on display.
Beyond the racism however, we see in the attitude of these aristocrats that they're particular nature is the perfect expression of the "right sort" of Christian: intellectually active, well-educated, disdainful of the vulgar, faithful and with a stiff upper-lip.
The view of Christianity on display is of an aristocratic Christianity, a distortion, I think, of the Augustinian hierarchy toward God. In this book's distortion, humans are, themselves, hierarchically ordered, first by race and then by class.
I absolutely loved parts of this book, and found other parts to be quite frustrating.
I recently re-read this book, having read it many years ago.The basic premise is that, in the 1930s, a general uprising begins in the African colonies, with well-armed rebels suddenly attacking the forces of the colonial powers.
At the same time, a mysterious figure announces a puzzling manifesto.Meanwhile, a strange man shows up in London, claiming to be two centuries old, living on by sheer force of will.
The Archbishop's face visible at moments as he turned and returned, knelt and rose, spread out or closed his hands, was more sombre than that of the other priests, but it was no more strongly moved.
Philip had once seen his father the moment before a successful but very dangerous operation, and the look of the celebrant reminded him of Sir Bernard then: it was the look of a man conscious of the gravity of the work before him but conscious also of an entire capacity to deal with it.
What I find fascinating about his novels is that his treatment of good and evil is never reduced to simple black-and-white divisions.
The reader is often challenged to exercise his/her own discernment in deciphering the difference.Although this novel was intriguing in its treatment of a rather bizarre effort to defeat death, I did not find this book quite as compelling as some of his others.
His writing style is often difficult to follow and at some points during the book, it seemed that the effort was not always worth the reward.
In my opinion, this book is not at all up to the standard of Williams' other novels.
There are some interesting characters and ideas but a lot of inconsistencies and rough edges as well.
Read it if you have read the other novels and want this one for completeness.
The one memorable character for me was Isabel, and her most memorable quote,"But those that die may be lordlier than you; they are obedient to defeat.
Can you live truly till you have been quite defeated?
You talk of living by your hurts, but perhaps you avoid the utter hurt that's destruction."
Almost done reading this metaphysical thriller on the quest of immortality, achieved somewhat by Nigel Considine who has duped Roger and certain Zulu elite into following him, but Sir Bernard and Fr. Caithness are wise to his schemes. Reminds me in some ways of G. K. Chesterton's The Man Who Was Thursday and C. S. Lewis' That Hideous Strength. I had already read C. W. S. Williams' The Place of the Lion, years before with some fascination.
I found this really hard to follow in places. Basically it is the story of a man who seeks conquer the world and overcome death by some mystical lifestyle. This man, Nigel Considine, is an Anti-Christ figure. Historically interesting is the fact that the story was published prior to WWII and Hitler's world-conquering aspirations. However, I found the story hard to follow in many places where Williams describes the spirituality Considine and those who follow him.
A fascinating, astute Anti-Christ story. I understood his point much better the second time around, because it really helped knowing where it was going. Again, Williams gave me my usual heartburn about trying to figure out whether or not he is a good author. This one is a count for him.Also read Fall 2012
I read a slew of Williams' novels and one history on the recommendation of a faculty friend at Union Theological Seminary in New York. Although I liked the history, Descent of the Dove, I wasn't very impressed by the novels. If I were a high church Anglican with Neo-Platonic leanings I probably would have taken them more seriously.
While the ideas are here the book struggles to work them through in coherent imagery and narrative. Many of the notions Williams is working through are highly relevant to the 21st century but the narrative is overwhelmed with verbosity. The characters rarely rise above representation. It is interesting as an early work from which he developed as a writer.
Estimated read date
What if there was a way for you to live forever. What would you give up to do so? Another great Williams book, with the usual great story muddied by soem hard slogging through the writing.
Difficult but rewarding.
A gripping tale of struggle with dark forces in which we live.
Good.
