https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114308.Swimmy
Leo Lionni has certainly made this book extremely intense yet heartwarming at the same time as I have felt sympathy for Swimmy after he lost his family to a tuna fish and I can understand how many children and adults will also sympathize with Swimmy's predicament, especially if they lost loved ones to an accident.Parents should know that at the beginning of this book, Swimmy's family is eaten by a giant tuna fish and that might be too upsetting for smaller children to handle.
What an odd little book! It recounts the adventures of Swimmy after his school of fish is eaten and he seeks out to find a new one. Along the way, he meets other sea creatures. Some of the phrases are quite good, "and eel whose tail was almost too far away to remember" and some are quite dull, "a strange fish pulled by an invisible thread." The illustrations interesting but not altogether my cup of tea, though I appreciate their merits. Overall, not a favorite, but I'm glad I was able to read this classic.
Cute story and fascinating, gorgeous illustrations. Again, Leo Lionni delves into the matter-of-factness of life and shows that one little fish can make a difference. We really enjoyed reading this book together.
Well, I clearly need to read more Leo Lionni.
I really enjoyed Swimmy for its beautiful, Carle-like, painting style which young children will particularly love, but also for our plucky little hero!
There is some lovely language in here to decribe the various creatures Swimmy encounters and I can see children wanting to mimic and play with these similes and metaphors but for me, it was Swimmy's cunning against the huge adversaries that won me over.
It might feel dated to us but I think children would love the huge double-page spreads of a world under the sea.
I used this book to teach finding theme to my high school students. Some of them thought it was dumb, but a lot of them (who thought that it was dumb before we started) ended up actually liking it a lot.It's a good book, and a good one to read with kids. It's a simple story, but told very well and it really does show the wonders of broadening your mind and being yourself and working together to get things done. It's a good book. It's worth reading, even if you only skim it in the book store.
A classic book on the theme of cooperation. Pairs nicely with Marcus Pfister's The Rainbow Fish and Al Clements' Big Al.
Swimmy is a fish who lives in the sea where all the little fished were red except for him he was black and swam faster than his brothers and sister.
This is a contemporary realistic book with a problem centered story, Swimmy saw how a fish ate his brothers and sister and he wanted to protect his new friends so he came up with a plan to keep them safe.
He didn’t have to help the little red fish but he may have wanted to help them because of what happen to his brothers and sisters.

Swimmy is a nice book with a somewhat startling sweep-over of Swimmy's family's deaths.  Though perhaps that sweep-over is good, given the audience that Lionni writes for.  Otherwise, this book does a great job reinforcing positive notions about teamwork, and has absolutely stunning illustrations.  This would be best, probably, for a smaller child with a good vocabulary and an eye for detail.Review cross-listed here!
Great book for little ones!1). Kids have fun trying to find the little black fish “swimmy” on each page. It reminds me of Where’s Waldo.2). The lesson of the story is uplifting. It doesn’t matter how small you are, you can over come size objections, think about solutions, and be just as advantageous as the big.3). Another lesson of the story is that life is not all about staying safe. Sometimes it’s about having to take risks to live a little.
I love the message of teamwork and the aquatic illustrations.
I liked the jellyfish
A cute book with watercolor pictures. It would be great for a sea unit since it covers different sea animals. This book also encourages problem solving.
The illustration of this book is amazing and eye catching. I love the story of a little fish with his big idea. I also like the description of the ocean life that Swimmy sees. This is a great engaging book for the little people in out lives. The pictures can be discussed in detail and the lessons can go anyway the reader wants it to go.
Swimmy by Leo Lionni is a creative book that demonstrates the story of a young fish named Swimmy who is a lone black fish with red brothers and sisters.
He successfully uses stamps to his advantage with the red fish showing how uniform and identical they are while making the black fish colored in solid and different.
The plot of the book is specifically directed with accepting ones individuality and not being afraid to be the only black fish in a school of red.
When a dangerous fish comes, Swimmy gets away.
He then gets a great idea to keep him and his school of fish safe.2.
Appropriate classroom use (subject area) (1 pt)This would be a good book to read aloud to the class at story time.
Individual students who might benefit from reading (1 pt)Any students who love fish would love this book.5.
Small group use (literature circles) (1 pt)The students could definitely read this book aloud to each other in small groups.6.
Whole class use (read aloud) (1 pt)This would definitely be a book that I would read aloud to my students.
He is able to divert being eaten by a very large tuna due to his fast swimming ability.
He is able to get away, only to find himself in the deep dark waters all alone.
The book follows his journey through the waters as he is searching for his family.
This is a perfect book to read to my students as it provides two lesson.
Being different is a wonderful thing, and if a group of people can band together they can tackle any large obstacle.
The illustrations are simple water colors yet oh so beautiful.
• Swimmy is the only black fish in a school of red fish, then tragedy struck forcing swimmy to swim farther than he ever has and seen more than he has ever seen. When he finds his school again he teaches them to work together. • Grades k-3• This book could be used in an art class or in a lesson about working together. • Individual students that may benefit from this book include students that need a reminder about the importance of working together.• This could be used in a literature circle to
When he finds his school again he teaches them to work together.
•	Grades k-3•	This book could be used in an art class or in a lesson about working together.
•	Individual students that may benefit from this book include students that need a reminder about the importance of working together.•	This could be used in a literature circle to have students come up with a different way for the school of fish to solve their problem.
•	This could be used with the entire class to talk about the art in the book.
Swimmy is about a little black fish whose red sisters and brothers with whom he lived got swallowed by a big tuna.
He then makes incredible and fascinating discoveries of the creatures of the world (I particularly liked the jellyfish which was beautiful).
I feel like this first part is about growing up and having to face the world by yourself.
Even if you feel helpless at first, you eventually learn to sort things out, you learn about yourself and about what surrounds you, and you are able to find happiness again.
After that, Swimmy finds other fishes of his kind, but who are terrified of the big tuna.
Among all the red fish, Swimmy dramatically stands out as different.
Eventually finding a school of red fish who are fearful of being swallowed, resourceful Swimmy teaches them to swim together wherein the individual red fish becomes a large figure of one.
Swimmy becomes the eye and stands out from the crowd in a very loving way, thus allowing him to not only embrace his individuality, but also to lead the way to be the seeing eye for all.This 1964 Caldecott Honor Book combines a necessary story with lovely illustrations.
Another one from the The 20th Century Children's Book Treasury: Celebrated Picture Books and Stories to Read Aloud that loses a lot with miniature images. As for Swimmy I think its a cute short tale and with larger images to be able see more detail could be quite enchanting.Reprinted and/or excerpt included in The 20th-Century Children's Book Treasury: Picture Books and Stories to Read Aloud.
The two lessons behind this story are that (1) it is ok to be different and to embrace being unique and (2) when people join and collaboratively work with one another you can accomplish any big task ahead of you.
This would be a great story to read at the beginning of the school year and to any age!
When you begin the year with this book it allows you flow right into the idea that in the classroom we are all going to embrace and welcome everyone's differences and that joining together will provide a sense of community and family.
1964 Caldecott Honor.
Favorite Illustration: the forest of colorful, lace-like seaweed growing from "sugar-candy rocks."Swimmy is a little fish who, after being left alone, goes out to see all of the wonders of the ocean.
Upon finding a new school of fish, Swimmy must convince them to work together to brave the dangers so that they, too, can enjoy the wonders and beauty of the ocean.
I really enjoyed the peaceful, beautiful illustrations in this book.
They look like they were made from watercolor paint washes with stamped details.
However they were done, they were gorgeous artistic renditions that brought to mind the beauty of the underwater world.
I have to admit I have never read this book in the English version, but I do own a French version of this book called Nageot. My sister and I were given this book when we were young, and we have our own translation of the book (written if I remember correctly using a French/English dictionary) inserted into this book on a type written piece of paper. Beautiful photos, and a treasure from my childhood.
A little black fish is left saddened and alone when all the red fish from his group are eaten. He swims through the ocean until he finds another school of red fish to join. Only this time, he teaches them how to swim in a formation that looks like a big fish, with him as the eye.Illustrations are very arty, watercolors.
This is still a great story after all these years. Very good to show young children some of the ocean creatures, and the overall theme of cooperating together for the greater good. And the illustrations are marvelous, textured and colorful, with that runny watercolor look.
The illustrations of Swimmy's underwater world are wonderful...somewhat whimsical in tone but showing both the wonders and dangers of Swimmy's ocean. Swimmy helps the other fish to problem solve, think outside of the box, and overcome their fears.
While I didn't care for the story as much, I did enjoy looking at the illustrations. I thought that it had a nice, clever ending. I'd recommend it.*Taken from my book reviews blog: http://reviewsatmse.blogspot.com/2008...
I've used this book in my theatre classes and language arts class. As an educator, I've found so many opportunities for movement, crafts, creating dialogue, character building, teamwork, etc... in this one little book. I love working with it and the kids I've worked with have loved it too.
A story about a small black fish that help saves the other fishes.
