https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17278.The_Feynman_Lectures_on_Physics_Vol_1
I picked up the first volume and upon a cursory glance, I happened to read this paragraph, in utter admiration and reverence:"A poet once said, 'The whole universe is in a glass of wine.' We will probably never know in what sense he meant it, for poets do not write to be understood.
But it is true that if we look at a glass of wine closely enough we see the entire universe.
If our small minds, for some convenience, divide this glass of wine, this universe, into parts -- physics, biology, geology, astronomy, psychology, and so on -- remember that nature does not know it!
The most wonderful gift from my brother on my 17th birthday. At first I didn't realize what I was holding in my hands. But it gradually became clear that this book is a work of genius. Feynman has explained every concept of Physics so beautifully. No wonder these lectures are still cherished by all. Best one to get all the concepts cleared and at the same time, have fun learning about the Physics of the world around us.Feynman is one of the reasons I fell in love with Physics.
The book went through many editions and many corrections were made to it.[The preface acknowledgement into sections were really long - it took me more than 30 minutes (and I'm being conservative here) just to get past that!]Chapter 1: Atoms in Motion1-1: Introduction"This two-year course in physics is presented from the point of view that you, the reader, are going to be a physicist.""We do not yet know the all the basic laws [of nature]; there is an expanding frontier of ignorance.""Everything we know is only some kind of approximation, because we know that we do not know all the laws [of nature] as yet."Some words on the nature and philosophy of science.
Well worth the read (listen) if you have any interest in physics or mathematics. I listened to the audio recording rather than reading a transcript. Excellent material. Feynman was such an exciting and funny speaker.
Read & Reread & read again..
The Feynman Lectures on PhysicsFeynman, Leighton and SandsThis beautiful three volume set (sold individually in the silver paperbacks– and possible to order as a hardback set in red) is a perfect gift for a science lover (or scientist) Bringing together the lectures which made up the introductory physics course at Caltech as taught by Richard Feynman they cover mechanics, radiation, heat, quantum mechanics, electromagnetism and matter; it is a comprehensive set of lectures by one of the worlds greatest science educators and most well known Physicists.
Excellent and well written, but also awe-inspiring and thought-provoking book I've ever come across with. I do recomend it amply! Two thumps up! If you are in the deal to figure things out, this book is one of those which can help you in that way. This book is indeed a work of a genius. Feyman has this odd quality of explaining the concepts of physics so beautifully. It's an excellent gift for a science lover. I may add that the language of this book is written in a tremendous lucid way.
Best explanation of physics ever
On the other hand, I cannot recommend this book to its originally intended audience, the fact that this approach is completely different makes some ideas really hard to follow if you are not already familiar with the topic, however, some chapters are really good and can serve this purpose.
This book also consists of complex equations as well as complex scenarios, it talks about quantum physics and eventually theoretical physics, and if you would like to prepare for a physics major then this will most definetly help you.Some of the things I disliked about this particular volume was that it did not include any practice worksheets so that I can retain the information that I had learnt.
Another thing that I disliked was that they did not include hyperlinks to Feynman's lecture videos where he thoroughly explains the concept of the chapters.
Io un minimo di background scientifico-tecnologico ce l'ho, ma avendo letto tutto il volume d'un fiato, non so quanto materiale mi rimarrà impresso.
Ma la matematica è manipolata con destrezza da Feynman, attraverso spericolate semplificazioni che come per magia avvicinano maggiormente al nocciolo della realtà fisica, spogliandolo di ogni distrazione analitica superflua.E' sicuramente un'opera influente, da consigliare assolutamente ad un giovane che sia in procinto di fare delle scelte sul proprio futuro, ma anche agli ex-giovani come me che vedranno certamente rinfocolata la loro passione per la conoscenza, spesso soffocata dalle afflizioni della vita quotidiana.
I’d give it ten stars, if I could!
HE WILL PRESENT YOU A COMPLETELY NEW VIEW
Somehow I was expecting this to be a highly technical book that I would have to struggle to understand. It is not. It might be a bit difficult for the general public who have no scientific education, but it is quite accessible to what is commonly called the intelligent layman.
I adore Feynman. But I don't recommend his famous lecture series. At least not in the audible format. Maybe a video or a kindle version would be better.
Amazing. Great to review the old topics, but probably not great for the first time through.
My review refers to the Audible audiobook (http://www.audible.com/pd/Science-Tec...).
Feynman's emblematic figures set high the expectations regarding this audiobook, the fact that the "audiobook" is in fact the audio recording of frontal lectures accounts for the audiobook to be much less enjoyable that one would expect it to be.
Last but not least, the fact that the lectures happened quite some time ago doesn't help the quality of the audio.
After some time listening it, I just realized my time could be better spent on some audiobooks which are actually properly designed to be an auditory experience.


A text book, world famous and in the most lucid language of Physics. I have studied a few chapters intensively although I own this book [I have purchased this book multiple times due to relocation] You can guess its importance. Its for those who want to understand how legendary minds really work. Good for a physics student and good for those who want to do research of any kind on such a text, physics or other wise.
If you want to know something about Physics this is a good place to start. They are beautiful. Several of the lectures from Volume 1 have been reissued under more user-friendly covers, but for anyone with a good grounding in Secondary School Physics and Maths, these, with some application on the part of the reader, are quite accessible. Volumes 2 and 3 I found less approachable as an enthusiastic amateur.
An excellent book about physics, with good explanations and examples. It's readable and mostly understandable, even if you're not into physics. I recollected/found out some fascinating facts about our world from it. And this quite a big book is only one of three volumes. Highly recommended for general education.
This is a great book if you have an interest in physics, not so great if you are looking for a cook book. The book is a collection of Nobel Prize winning physicist Richard Feynman's lectures at Cal Tech. Considering his audience and the subject it is a surprisingly readable book. Maybe each lecture would make a nice bed time story for a future Einstein.
One of the best books to understand the physical world. Man's discoveries of are of no end and the author has given best explanation and exposure to the physics concepts known till his date. Nevertheless, principally, book bridges the gap between the mathematical equations and physical concepts.
Outside of art (or maybe not), physics is mankind's most beautiful achievement; these three volumes are probably the most beautiful ever written about physics.
This is an excellent set of physics lectures. Feynman was very talented at right to heart of the matter and making everything seem obvious.
Fascinating. I listened on Audiobook and would have benefitted greatly from visuals, but it was fun listening to Feynman speak in his own voice.
Very good and very informative. I never imagined Feynman had such a strong accent
Brilliantly covers basic undergraduate physics. Wish I had a teacher like this.
A great classic, with all the wit of Feynman writing. A must read for all aficionaos of scientific essays.
