https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26.The_Lost_Continent
One of his very few favorable reviews of American cities was of the ski town of Stowe, Vermont which caters almost exclusively to the rich.When he is traveling through the southwest he complains about the Mexican music on the radio.
Just once I wanted him to roll into some town that he liked and get into an interesting conversation with one of its residents.Here are examples of the cheeriness with which Bryson opens a few of his chapters:“I drove on and on across South Dakota.

In which a bilious Bryson, returning to the U.S. after living in England, borrows his mom’s car (wit
I come from Des Moines. Somebody had to. Thus begins Bill Bryson his travelogue, setting the tone for what is going to follow: he is a smart-aleck, and he is going to be at his sarcastic best in taking down small-town America through which he is going to travel.Des Moines in Iowa is a typical small town in America where nothing ever happens and nobody ever leaves, because that is the only life they have known and they are happy with it. But not so young Bill – he watched one TV show on Europe w
These would have been extremely enjoyable except for two issues – Senior Mr. Bryson’s penchant for getting lost as well as his unbearable thrift (as Bill says, “[h]e was a child of the Depression and where capital outlays were involved he always wore the haunted look of a fugitive who has just heard blood hounds in the distance”) which made him avoid good restaurants and forced them to stay almost always in rundown motels.But as happens to most of us, the onset of age made Bryson view these journeys more and more favourably through the rose-tinted glasses of fond memory; until one day he came back to the home of his youth and set across the country of his birth in an ageing Chevrolet Chevette.
Well, ain't it somethin for dat rascally Mr. Bryson wit all o dat funny Northern talk to make his way down here to Dixie and spend some time wid us! We sure do 'ppreciate you takin us into your rich and well-knowed book, Mr. Bryson. And yer gosh-darn-right, God save all those poor folk who done shopped at K-Mart! They should've spent their nickels at Crate & Barrel had they knowed what to do wid demselves.....
Bryson is a fat, cynical white guy traveling around the country, proclaiming in the subtitle: "Travels in Small Town America." But like most fat white guys, Bryson is scared of small town America.
How can you write a book about small town America when you're too scared to stop in any small towns???
This book spouts so much hateful white guy racism that I can't even bring myself to give it away.
While I am 100% against burning or destroying any kind of book, I simply cannot let this one leave my hands.
I can’t express how much I enjoyed hearing about boring god awful places as much as I did during the reading of this book.
When people regale me with their travel stories I usually glaze over but I was strangely riveted and the more dismal a place he visited the more fun I seemed to have!
I’m officially a Bill Bryson fan I really don’t know why it took me so long to read him but now I just want more more more!
Sometimes I feel like I'm the only person who's noticed the fact that Bill Bryson is a smug bastard who casts a pall of depressing sarcasm over everything he writes about.
I mean, I'm all for sarcasm in most cases, but it's as though all of his subjects are cheapened and made despicable by his prose.
In The Lost Continent, he turns every small-town inhabitant into an ignorant, obnoxious caricature.
If you'd like a travelogue with value and interest, try Blue Highways, by William Least Heat Moon, who actually has some respect for his fellow human beings.
I have been to many of the places in the west that he traveled to in this book and it was interesting to me to read about his experiences which were so different to what I experienced.
We had a great breakfast in Sundance, WY and the waitress was so super nice and cheerful that I actually purchased a t-shirt to remember her.
Bill Bryson did not get to eat there as The Shriners had taken over and the waitress would not help him.
His constant nasty comments about women also made me angry.
More broadly, Bryson leaves a depressingly accurate description of the tawdriness and vulgarity of America's built environment - a cement desert of motels, burger joints, gas stations, strip malls, freeways and parking lots repeated ad nauseam throughout the Lower 48 - that is painfully recognizable even 25 years later.
If you have ever wondered at the wanton debasement that has been visited on the land by its greedy natives, if you have ever been saddened by the pitiless ugliness that surrounds you in America's cities, towns and suburbs, then surely this book is for you.
PS This was Bryson's first book.
When reading this book, American readers may very well feel like they are eavesdropping on a conversation not intended for their ears.
From an American's point of view, I was at times amazed by the important landmarks Bryson missed seeing or failed to appreciate.
Part II, about Bryson's travels in the West, seems tacked on and unnecessary for the book (except for his description of his drive through the Colorado mountains to Cripple Creek and his depiction of his first view of the Grand Canyon ("The fog parted.
This was the book that made me fall in love with Bill Bryson's writing many years ago. It helps a little bit that we both grew up in Iowa, but this man is so funny, I cannot imagine any reader not having a great time with his books. Enjoy a fun road trip across America in this rollicking tale.
Instead it was a book about a guy a little younger than me, driving across country, spending most of his time in his car by himself and making some sort of funny and more not-funny at all remarks about America, and stopping at various tourist traps and historical sites where he inevitably grumbles about merchandising, any cost involved, and how bored he is by historical sites (so, um, don't go to them, it's a big fucking country) Parts of the book are enjoyable, but too much of it is just snarky little comments that haven't aged too well in the twenty five years since the book was published.
Here he promises to follow the path of old holidays with his parents, when as a child he was hauled around the country visiting towns of dubious merit and passing time at ‘freebie’ attractions that failed to delight or even stay long in the memory.
In fact, he states early on his desire to track down the perfect American town, devising a tick list drawn from memories of these early adventures and his own upbringing in Des Moines, Iowa.In total, Bryson covers nearly 14000 miles and visits numerous states throughout the Union.

Hey, I just remembered - I don't like Bill Bryson.I made it all the way to the end of the first CD, just to be certain I wasn't mistaken about my opinion, and nope, I wasn't.I still don't like Bill Bryson.This is especially repugnant coming straight off Something Rich and Strange: Selected StoriesNote to self: Please stop trying with this guy. You do not like him. You never have, you never will.
Nothing to write home about, not even if you are from small-town America. The author, in this book, is caught up in himself and his wit rather than the subject, the small towns of America.
Unfortunately, the point of the book strayed from revisiting some of the places his father took him as a kid to visiting every boring sad town he could find, where he stayed at a boring sad hotel, and ate at the greasiest and saddest restaurants.
However, without talking to anyone besides a waitress and a hotel resptionists he makes this sweeping judgement, "I drove on, thinking what an ironic thing it was that the really beautiful places in America-the Smoky Mountains, Appalachia, and now Vermont-were always inhabited by the poorest, most uneducated people."I know he went out of his way to pick the worst and most boring towns in America because in California he visited LA, Fresno, and Jackson.
So I read Bryson first paragraph:I come from Des Moines.
Bryson's book seems like a good example of how to enact the construction of "normal." Overweight?
If anything, Bryson's book is a chronicling of his extreme naiveté at his own unearned privilege.It seems like the only group not worth mocking in his book are queer folk, and that's probably because they are so invisible to him that they're not even on the radar to mock.
Each trip through each state is as steroetypically perfect as is the idea of a fat white man calling a long circular drive across an entire continent with no particular destination a 'vacation.' To find this book any less than humurous one would have to maintain a cynicism much more deeply rooted than Bryson portrays his own to be, or, perhaps, you might just have to come from one of the dozens of small towns that he makes fun of along the way!
As my father always used to tell me, 'You see, son, there's always someone in the world worse off than you.' And I always used to think, 'So?'  Bryson returns to England after ten years and decides to take a road trip full of nostalgic stops. He reflects on many a good adventure with his family and, in particular, his father. Wholly entertaining and engaging!Audiobook CommentsRead by William Roberts - and he did a fab job. But, it's a pet peeve when an author tells such a personal story but doe
As my father always used to tell me, 'You see, son, there's always someone in the world worse off than you.' And I always used to think, 'So?'
 Bryson returns to England after ten years and decides to take a road trip full of nostalgic stops. He reflects on many a good adventure with his family and, in particular, his father. Wholly entertaining and engaging!Audiobook CommentsRead by William Roberts - and he did a fab job. But, it's a pet peeve when an author tells such a personal story but doesn't narrate his own house.Blog | Instagram | Twitter
He treats it like a disposable tissue, with as little interest in where it came from and in where it's going.
How did Bryson have the audacity to write a book about America and not visit an inner-city slum?
How could he treat the Sequoias so thoughtlessly, be so little moved by the sadness and beauty of the Old South, the haunting eeriness of West Texas, how could he miss the pretty, solid, dependable beauty of Maine, or the sorrow of loss that arises as each new suburban development imposes the same mask over the gorgeous landscape that is our home?
This isn’t my favorite Bryson book by any means, but as always, I thoroughly enjoyed his humor and wit.
This book was like experiencing a road trip across small-town America with a very witty and observant travel guide.
One of my favorite quotes:“The most splendid thing about the Amish is the names they give their towns.
Everywhere else in America towns are named either after the first white person to get there or the last Indian to leave.
But the Amish obviously gave the matter of town names some thought and graced their communities with intriguing, not to say provocative, appellations: Blue Ball, Bird in Hand, and Intercourse, to name but three.
Che bel libro, mi ha divertito tanto. È una guida stravagante ed emozionante non per il tipo di scrittura ma perché ti fa viaggiare insieme all'autore con le descrizioni dei luoghi. Ho scoperto posti che non avevo mai sentito prima e che pensavo fossero inesistenti. Consiglio assolutamente di leggere questo libro selvaggio sempre con internet a portata di mano per scoprire in tempo reale quello che si legge.Ineguagliabile.
Bryson was a longtime expat in England who returned to the US apparently so he could cynically criticize just about everyone and everything he saw here.
It sounds like this "journey" was a labor of hate.I also lived in England for a couple of years before returning to the US.
But when I returned, I saw this country with fresh eyes and now feel better able to appreciate both its strengths and its faults.
Bryson sounds like he just came back to show us how much better HE is than us.
Having grown up in small towns in the Midwest, I really identified with the places (unfortunately, for the most part) that Bryson visited in his journey.
I loved how Bryson, a Des Moines native, moved away to the UK for 20 years and thus explores the country as a knowing outsider.
The tone of the book is almost explaining the US to the British, so it was great to get a fresh perspective on things.
Bryson's curmudgeonly displeasure at the many inconveniences he encounters along the way is a constant source of humor.
I can't recommend this book enough.
This is the first Bill Bryson book I have read and it's not hard to see why he has become so popular.
Bryson's descriptions make you feel as though you can see what he can sees.
Clearly this is meant to be a humourous read, but I have to say, I barely cracked a smile.I'm not saying it's a bad book.
I feel compelled to walk in his footsteps and see how my perception and experience marry with his.
For now, I will consider reading what he has to say about my homeland, Australia, in his book, Down Under.

Bill's first travel book, published in 1989, is very irreverent and very funny - some of the cultural references may be dated for younger readers, but as I am nearly same age as be is, not a problem for me. I still have some catching up to do on some of his other books!
I knew something was amiss when the first chapter consisted of nothing more than Bill Bryson taking an enormous steaming dump on his home state of Iowa.
Maybe I would have enjoyed this book more if I'd read it when it was new, or at least before I read so much of his later, better work, but as it is, I couldn't really recommend this book to anyone, either as a first Bryson or a tenth.
