https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23396625-beyond-the-last-path
This needs editing badlyThis was a great story, but plagued by terrible editing. Please, if you read this book...be prepared for that. It was very frustrating, especially after paying full price.
What happened to some of the other people.What is surprising is that the book isn't full of bitterness instead what is pointed out how survival depended a lot of time of other prisoners trying to support each other in one way or other.
In some sense replacing the family members they had lost along the way.I highly recommend reading this book I'm also including a link (for everyone that likes to get some additional info) to The August 1944 American air raid on a weapons factory at the Nazis’ horrific concentration camp was one of the most precise bombing missions of the war.
This is the story of Eugene Weinstock, a Jewish member of the resistance that began in the early stages of the Holocaust.
His story is both horrific and beautiful, as it includes both the savagery and nobility that exists in humans.Mr. Weinstock tells us about the underground resistance in Buchenwald, where he was shipped to, which they say is the only organized underground in any German concentration camp.
We also get to learn about some of the heroes of the Holocaust, men who saved the lives of hundreds, some even thousands, from inside Buchenwald while also fighting for their own lives, and we get to learn their names.Eugene tells his story from the beginning of the Holocaust up to the moment of his liberation.
RemarkableA remarkable book that reveals the struggle to remain alive through organization and discipline in a vast horror chamber.
The Underground of Buchenwald, the day to day terrors, and the liberation of the camp are described with such brutal clarity and honesty by Eugene Weinstock.
And prior to his and his son's capture, the authors struggle to escape the closing ring of the invading German army is a macabre adventure.
What sets this book apart in many ways is the authors ability to infuse dark humor throughout its gruesome contents.
It reveals how one man and many others were able to remain human while in the captivity of monsters.
One of the best survival of the Holocaust StoriesThis one by a Hungarian survivor of Buchenwald. What a story! The amazing thing was the unique camp Underground that maintained discipline and kept many, many men (and children) alive. As usual, how anyone at all survived is a miracle but this was exceptional. Lots of outwitting the Nazis but unfortunately, they were fighting a mostly losing battle. Quite a brave story told dispassionately. A truly humane and compassionate memoir.
The power of organized resistanceThe never ending story of man's inhumanity to man This book is a different slant with organized resistance in a concentration camp. The decision to sacrifice a few to save the many would be one of the hardest things to do but in Buchenwald it was done. Through resistance many lives were saved
The horrors of the holocaustThe most horrible time in history when life was disposable and no thought was given to preserving it. The author describes the conditions of the concentration camp and the brutality inflicted on fellow humans. This story brings home why we must never forget.
Must readI was born in 1943, so only read things as I was growing up, but did not fully understand until the account I just read. Thank you for sharing this terrible time in history, so we can understand the suffering you experienced. Thank god for people as yourself who survived to tell the world.
Outstanding story of survival, of courage and perseverance.The best book on concentration camp life I've read. The ability of these men to overcome one of the most horrible events in human history is astounding.
World War II StoryThis book, written shortly after the war, is supposed to be a story of life in Buchenwald. However, much of it appears to be fantasy. I am referring to the incredibly well organized air attack by the Americans, and much of the description of the liberation.
Staying human in an inhuman placeThis well written memoir is moving and uplifting despite the tense material. It's the best book I've read in several years, and I average two books per week.
Accomplished by few !  It is just so hard to believe and impossible to understand, man's inhumanity to each other. We must learn from stories such as this, BELIEVE, it can happen again, if we Don' t do our part to stop it.
HistoryThis book details an important part of history that all should learn. It takes you through the journey of one man's fight for survival in the concentration camp, Buchenwald.
Desperately needs an editor, but regardless one of the best holocaust memoirs I've read.
PraiseSuch an uplifting, but sad story. Proof that there are those capable of taking the high road no matter what the circumstances are.
A Survivor's StoryThis was an excellent factual book. It fully and clearly describes the horrors of the holocaust. This is a must read book.. Very well written!
Very Well DoneThis book shows the pointless tragedy of war and racial hatred.
It also shows the internal strength of the prisoners and how they forged on together to fight for their lives.
I have read many books on the holocaust and Word War 2.I have also interviewed many veteran soldiers who lived through the war and they relived their stories of what they witnessed when there, including at least four who were with there when they liberated those camps.
Their lives were changed forever after what they saw, and this book just confirms why.
The most powerful testimony. ..I have read, maybe hundreds, of accounts of the Holocaust and camps. Never found two the same. Each was profound in the recital of horror and Nazi depravity. This one stands out as one of the most well-recounted, and it should be read by everyone who backs the U.N. and Muslims rising up in this modern era. We must never forget the lessons of such madness.
A hard read. So much suffering, and by the end, hes speaking after liberation, and you can feel the anger inside him. The one downfall of the book, is you hear about his son before his capture, and hear his son is ok and safe from germans while father is in camp, but nothing at all after fathers release about what happened to his son.
A well written, matter of fact account that starts in 1940 with life as a refugee in Nazi occupied Belgium and transitions to survival in Buchenwald from 1943 until liberation. Stunning in the level of unrelenting, unending, non-sensical brutality inflicted upon the prisoners.Based on the original copyright, the book was probably written in 1946. Not long after the camp liberation.
Eugene Weinstock's story of survival in Buchenwald where instead of using the gas chambers for mass exterminations the Nazis used mass starvation and over-work the prisoners to death. He weighed just 80 lbs. when the Americans liberated the camp.
I read the same story in another book. This is that same book. But with pictures. It should say this before you buy it.This story is the same as Henri' war. If you have read that book. Don't buy this one and visa versa.
Duplication of another book. This book is a duplication of another book entitled "Henri's War: A Buchenwald Holocaust Story." I began to notice stories I had read before so I checked both books and they are identical. Can the cost of this book be refunded?
Hard to readBut a true must read. There is so much that we need to learn and so much we don't learn Shame on us.
GBook was interesting and AND INFORMATIVE . I AM VERY MUCH INTERESTED in World war true stories and I READ WHAT EVER I can find on said subject.
Good readI like reading first hand reports of the struggles and triumphs of the Jews. We will never forget history's lessons.
