https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/546018.Roots
Throughout your largely tragic life, you would never have imagined that your story would ever be written, let alone read by a bookish teenager in far-away India, for whom slavery till that day was only a fact learned from school textbooks, mucked up to pass hated history exams.
He suffered with you, Mr.Kinte, as you lay chained up in the dark and dank hold of the slaving vessel: he felt the searing pain as your foot was cut off as punishment for trying to run away: he choked back the bitter disappointment, along with you, when your master told you that the money you had saved up was not enough to buy you freedom (namely, that you were too poor to pay for what you were worth!)and he suffered the agony of separation with you as your daughter was sold off.
The release of the novel, combined with its hugely popular television adaptation, Roots (1977), led to a cultural sensation in the United States, and it is considered to be one of the most important U.S. works of the 20th century.
او که مسلمانی باورمند است، عقیده دارد که بردگان از اصل و ریشه ی خویش فاصله گرفته، و سرسپرده ی سفیدپوستان شده‌ اند، اما به تدریج زبان انگلیسی را می‌آموزد، و درمی‌یابد که اینان هرگز در آفریقا نبوده‌ اند، و برده، زاده شده‌ اند.
اما هرگز از اعتقادات خود برنمی‌گردد، و پیوسته تلاش می‌کند آفریقایی‌ تباران را، با میراث خویش آشنا سازد.
I could understand why Alex Haley is the best-selling African-American author to date.I wanted to give this book a 5.
In addition, reading both "The African" and "Jubilee" helped me to see a little more of what Haley was getting at with writing Roots.Now that I understand his perspective better, I can see that Roots definitely had an agenda.
Enjoy!The Autobiography of Malcolm X, Alex Haley, 1965Jubilee, Margaret Walker, 1966https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...The African, Harold Courlander, 1967https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Also from Goodreads discussion below this review:Roots: Philip Nobile “The Village Voice” February 23, 1993After Haley’s death, his private papers were released and reviewed by Philip Nobile, who published a definitive article in 1993.
Magnificent.
The epic chronicle of a family through many generations of cruelty, hardship and suffering.
But it's much more than that really; it's the history of slavery in America.
What happened to the characters in this book happened to millions of others and it's a story that needed to be told and Alex Haley did a masterful job of telling it.
Roots should be required reading in high schools because all of us, regardless of age, race, or gender should understand this history.
You can't tell the history of America without telling the history of slavery.
Knjiga, a potom i serija, koje smo mnogo voleli... Kako bi bilo lepo kad bi se neko setio evergrin naslova i ponovo objavio ovu knjigu... Pre nekoliko godina sam nabavila originalni box set serije pa mogu da uživam u njoj kad god poželim... Makar nešto... :)
Just to be Kunta with his aspirations and dreams and then to be ripped from it just in a split second by someone with their own ideas and taken away from the only thing he knows.
Half the book was about Kunta and then the next chapter that's it.
I didn't really like that.All in all, I loved how the family kept its tradition and promise to make sure they knew about Kunta and where he came from.
Not many ppl can say that and I'm sure it would give you a sense of PRIDE to be able to say "yes, my so and so was this person or that person."WONDERFUL BOOK!!
درباره ی بردگی کتاب و فیلم کم نخوندم و کم ندیدم اما چیزی که کتاب ریشه ها رو خاص میکنه، توصیف وضعیت «برده بودن» نیست، وصف مسیر دردناک و تلخ «برده شدن»ه.. 400 صفحه اول کتاب، از زندگی کونتا کینته ی مسلمان آفریقایی در دهکده اش، تا برده شدنش و آورده شدنش به امریکا، بهترین، جذابترین و تأثیرگذارترین بخش ریشه هاس..الکس هیلی بعد از دوازده سال تحقیق، سفر به آفریقا و پیدا کردن دهکده ای که اجدادش در اون زندگی میکردن، کتابی رو مینویسه که زندگی هفت نسل از خانواده اش رو روایت میکنه، به این امید «که این سرگذشت،


It is here, despite the conflict being the horror of abduction leading into a lifetime of slavery, where I finally realized I needed to let go of my desire to experience any character development and submit instead to Haley's true gifts, which are research and story-telling.The story, from roughly pages 192 to 853, is often compelling.
It was not, and the final pages, where he discusses the death of his father, made no cogent sense to me and had no connection to the rest of the story.I applaud the incredible scope of this book and its huge cultural, ancestral, social and spiritual contributions, but I really struggled with the writing.
I don't know why I've never read this book before now. It's excellent. Yes, as a Midwestern, middle-aged white person, the repeated use of the N-word was jarring, but definitely necessary to the story. It got a point across that I don't think would have been properly conveyed any other way. I'm going to re-watch the miniseries soon. It came out when I was in grade school, so I don't remember it well. But I highly recommend the book.
African-American writer Haley based this book on the oral stories of his family history, handed down to him as a child by his grandmother, who was part of a chain of family memory-keepers going back to the 18th century, to (and even before) the arrival of their ancestor Kunta Kinte in this country as a kidnapped slave.
These devices are dropped in the much shorter accounts of the later generations, beginning with his grandparents (he was born in 1921), which read more like, and actually are, conventional nonfiction.) But the earlier generations take up the vast majority of the book; so I've classified it accordingly as historical fiction.However, that's in no way said in derogation.
I appreciate the author's research of his own roots and the overall message this book has.
The problem I had with it was that the writing style was uninteresting.
It wasn't bad but it made the characters too two-dimensional for me to enjoy the story overall.
They were all empty and I couldn't cheer for them or feel for them.
But I understand why the book is important to some and why it has the position it has, I just didn't notice the literary value it supposedly has.
Plus the plagiarism accusations can't be good for an author's reputation and respect.
And Alex Haley had claimed not to be just writing a novel, but telling the story of his family--who he claimed he had traced back to its roots in Africa where his ancestor Kunta Kinte, in what is today Gambia, had been kidnapped into slavery and brought to America.
And as a Village Voice article by Philip Nobile detailed, Haley's own notes reveal that Kunta Kinte and Roots is largely a work of Haley's imagination.All right then, what we're dealing with is a novel.
تعجب كونتا كنتي من بعض أفراد قبيلته الذين كانوا عبيداً عندهم مقابل الأكل والشرب أو مقابل حياتهم لكونهم كانوا في الأصل إما أعداء أو سجناء ..
واستغرب قبولهم و ارتضاءهم لهذا الوضع، فاستفسر من والده الذي رد عليه بقوله:-لقد أصبحوا عبيداً عندما لم يكونوا شجعاناً لدرجة يفضلون الموت عن الأسر هكذا تربى "كونتا كنتي"، أن العبد شخص يدعوا للاحتقار، كيف لا وهو سليل عائلته الذائعة الصيت بتاريخها وثقافتها ..
سالها قبل خوانده ام. من که با آدمهایش زندگی کردم. فکر کنم اگر دوباره بخوانم هم بازهم این تجربه تکرارشود. بلاخره کتاب مشهور و شاید هم از آثار کلاسیک باشد.
از کودکی کیزی به بعد رو خوندم. خوب بود
While nothing can undermine the horrors experienced by slaves during this period, there was some question in my mind about the integrity of the author and thus, his ability to accurately portray these truths, even within the framework of fiction.
These things shouldn't even be written for people to have to read, never mind have actually happened.
I think the new tv series will show this in a truly powerful fashion.Yet that is the conundrum of this work- Haley seems to excellently illustrate this life, this man Kunte Kinte, yet we also know he stole from other authors.
أعتقد أن عدداً لا بأس به من جيلى - مواليد أوائل الثمانينيات - قد شاهد المسلسل الأجنبى الشهير المأخوذ
"Based on Alex Haley’s novel, Roots: The Saga of an American Family, whose 1977 TV adaptation remains one of the most-watched dramas in US TV history, this powerful story remains as relevant today as it was nearly forty years ago."source

this is a perfect example of a book that would benefit from GR offering different rating criteria, rather than just one overall rating. because of the cultural and historical significance of roots, it deserves 5-stars. but because i was really expecting much stronger writing and a smoother style - i mean, he's got 900 pages to work with here; it's not like there's a shortage of space - i feel like the book was only 2 to 3-stars on the quality of writing. i did very much enjoy the dialects haley
for example, kunta kinte, so fierce, strong and determined to get free...skip ahead 4 years and he's resigned to his lot and on edge a bit still, but content-ish.
as well, the book - at least the edition i read - just went directly from the novel into alex haley's own recollections.
it's about time i actually, finally, read roots and, really, for my criticisms of haley's writing style, i did find myself very engaged with the story of kunta kinte and the generations of his family.
After trying to escape, he is punished severely and sent to live on another plantation, where he is able to develop more of a sense of self, while still refusing to adopt the 'American' slave mentality.
The subsequent four generations spin their stories in the latter portion of the book, with each collection of slaves (and eventually freed blacks) holding onto the oral history Kunta Kinte brought with him.
Beginning well before any delivery to the shores of America, Haley facilitates a bond with Kunta Kinte before pushing the narrative into the darker and more sinister aspects of race relations and the acceptance of the slave trade and use of slaves on plantations across the colonial region.
This is probably the book that started my historical fiction fixation.
I read this in my early teenage years along with the Clan of the Cavebear books, Gone With The Wind and the North and South series.
I love how it brings history to life.
The characters are real and you can sympathize with their situations -- particularly Kunta Kinte's.
It made the horrible practice of slavery real and how it dehumanizing it was.
I think that reading it at a young age made me into a more compassionate person.
I also liked how the book explained Kunta's African heritage.
Wow...I will be doing a FULL review for this soon.
From BBC Four:A historical portrait of American slavery, recounting the journey of one family and their will to survive, endure and ultimately carry on their legacy despite enormous hardship.Episode 1Juffere, West Africa, 1767 - young, proud Kunta Kinte is being initiated as a Mandinka warrior and ready to start thinking about his future.
But the young warrior's indomitable spirit is not ready to be subjugated.Episode 2: The American Revolutionary War, 1782.
كيف لها ألا تسكب ( بنها ) دمعاً ، قهوتي في حضرة ( الجذور ) ترسم صورة ذاك الصبي ( كونتا كونتي ) الفتى المسلم الذي أُنتزع من أحضان أدغال أفريقيا ليلقى به في جحيم العبودية رواية مأساوية لأحداث حقيقية تفاعلت معها بكل مشاعري بعد أن تنتصف الرواية ستصعقك مفاجأة إقشعر لها جسدي حين قال ( وطرقا الباب يحملان طفلا ) وإستطرد الكاتب ( هذا الطفل كان أنا ) !!
the tv series was one of the rarest tv series which were imported into china when i was small(fucking early 90's), and i ass-rimmedly loved it. i can now still remember that excrement and vomit filled blackbirder cabin much more imprinted than the tub YIKES!scene of The Cormorant,,,...///囧
سنرى في تلك البيئة التنميط الشديد بسلطة الهوية الاجتماعية واستجابة الناس لها، وكبت مشاعرهم وإنسانيتهم ليصبحوا وفق النموذج الأمثل لتمثيل رجل القرية أو سيدة القرية.كانت نقطة الذروة لكشف ذلك القهر النفسي الرهيب – بالنسبة لي – ، عندما ودع كونتا والدته وقريته بكل مشاعر الحب والارتباط بتلك الأسرة، ثم عاد بعد أربعة أشهر ليعجز أن يعبر عن مشاعره لوالدته ووالده، والحاجز المبني من المكانة التي وصل إليها كونتا باعتباره " رجلاً" !
ربما كانت هذه الفترة في أعين الناس عين السعادة والراحة التي يريدها " كونتا " كما سارت به الرواية، لكننا عند التأمل نجد أن تلك عبودية لكنها محبوبة لأنها أول ما نشأ وترعرع فيها " كونتا"، ولأنها مقارنة بما سيأتي لاحقاً تعتبر جنّة، أي أنها مستوى أخف من مستويات العبودية!
Επίσης μας λέει για τις παραδόσεις, τις συνήθειες, τα πανηγύρια, τις αγροτικές δουλειές...νομίζω ότι το κομμάτι της ζωής του Κούντα στο Τζουφούρε θα καλύψει την περιέργεια για ένα χαμένο πια πολιτισμό όποιου το διαβάσει .Και ερχόμαστε στο επόμενο κομμάτι του πρώτου μισού του βιβλίου (ναι, ακόμη στο πρώτο μισό είμαστε), όταν οι λευκοί αιχμαλωτίζουν τον Κούντα και τον μεταφέρουν αλυσοδεμένο μαζί με πολλούς άλλους μαύρους στην Αμερική με ένα πλοίο.
Δεν ξέρω αν θα έπρεπε να λείπει ολόκληρο το δεύτερο μισό του βιβλίου, ίσως θα ήταν καλύτερα να τελειώσει με την ιστορία του Κούντα και να κάνει απλή αναφορά στη ζωή της κόρης του.
If you haven't read this amazing story, you have to grab it. The author not only found his own past but has shared it with readers in a remarkable way. You can't help but fall in love with the family and empathize with their plight. Some day I woiuld love to be able to look up my own ancestors and find the lives they came before and the legacy left behind, great job!
