https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/184429.Literature_and_Revolution
Artist Aleksandr Rodchenko created this work at the time Literature and Revolution by Leon Trotsky was published in 1924.Since my interest is art and aesthetics, I wanted to read a book by an early 20th century Communist that is considered a major work in the field.
Art then will become more general, will mature, will become tempered, and will become, the most perfect method of the progressive building of life in every field.
But then again, who would claim modern art is “the most perfect method of the progressive building of life in every field?”“Man will occupy himself with re-registering mountains and rivers, and will earnestly and repeatedly make improvements in nature.
With my great admiration both for Futurists and Formalists, and Trotsky's criticisms of them, I did not expect much from this book. Yet, Trotsky's brilliant exposee does not only utilize ideologemes to brand something as retrograde. His discussion of both Futurists and Formalists is enlightening because it gives these movements their due while at the same time criticizing them. Trotsky also suggest non passé thoughts on relations of art to politics and ideology in a very nuanced fashion. Very convincing
Ένα εξαιρετικά καλογραμμένο βιβλίο,με πολύ ενδιαφέρουσες απόψεις-οπτικές γύρω από την Τέχνη και όχι 
Very readable, apart from a few searches on Wikipedia on the Russian literary figures that he mentions. The chapter about the 'fellow-travellers' is the one that requires most Wikipedia. He makes a very convincing case against Formalism and against "art for art's sake". The middle chapters were the best for me. The last chapter had a lot of utopian day-dreaming, so I didn't find it that appealing.
Trotsky's criticisms are harsh yet fair.
He knew his stuff.
It's an optimistic look at the literature to follow the revolution, with acknowledgement that so far, it wasn't very good but showed promise.My only criticism of this book is that, at the end, he has a lot to say about people refashioning nature, of the idea popular a hundred-plus years ago, of the age of dam- and canal-building, etc.
It doesn't hold up to modern environmental realities.
Of course, at the time, Russia was not only vast but largely undeveloped, so no one there was particularly worried about losing natural beauty.
Sebuah buku kritikan sastera, sosial dan falsafah yang bagus untuk dibaca oleh pembaca-pembaca di Malaysia terutama yang ingin berfikiran lebih jauh dalam berkarya. Juga bagus dibaca oleh penerbit, individu yang berangan-angan atau bercita-cita jadi penerbit, penerbit baru, pengkritik penerbit, pengkritik penulis, penulis, penulis baru, dan individu yang berangan-angan atau bercita-cita jadi penulis.
It's very difficult to view art through materialist perspective. Trotsky offers a great vision towards a free revolutionary art but still can't get himself out of didacticism, and i always have a major proplem when art is related to morality and utilitarian functions.
Trotsky shares his great knowledge and understanding of literature of the world . His belief of greater ideas for mankind thru open literature and discussion of new ideas and theories.
Even without having read most of the books that Trotsky references, you can see his mind at work, methodically analyzing and criticizing the art of the time.
