https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28212.And_the_Band_Played_On
The gay plague got covered only because it finally had struck people who counted, people who were not homosexuals. 1) This is an absolutely astounding piece of investigative journalism. Shilts has dug deep into the history of the AIDs crisis: from its very early origins in Africa, being passed around by a lack of medical hygiene, to the bath houses of New York and San Francisco. He has provided a comprehensive, horrific history of the disease, its victims, and the uncaring government who allowe
He has provided a comprehensive, horrific history of the disease, its victims, and the uncaring government who allowed it to spread out of control.2) Shilts is an AMAZING writer.
Homophobia is not surprising to me in this often shitty world we live in, and yet I still managed to be shocked at the way medical professionals, government officials, and the media repeatedly failed the gay victims at the centre of this crisis.We have teams around the world whose job it is to quickly isolate and stop infectious diseases before they can become epidemics.
This book brought back the early 80s in hallucinatory detail.
I remember when we first heard about Gay Cancer, and how hard it was to get any decent information.
I bought this book the week it came out, and it changed my view of everything.
This is the book that made me understand viscerally that me and mine mattered nothing to the government.
The Cassandras, dismissed, reviled and hushed at the time, are sadly proven right.
This book should be required reading for anyone entering any sort of health care profession or who might be a health care consumer some day.
It could happen again.This book changed my life.
But it doesn't always pass away, and from one bad dream to another, it is men who pass away ..."-Albert Camus, The PlaguePerhaps the most astonishing factor in this book, more so than the wasting disease of AIDS, is the totally pervasive sense of callous indifference.
How the senators wanted to leave the issue out of mind.
How the press refused to cover the issue until it spread from the homosexual male community.
But he still typifies the wanton ignorance and total psychopathy which involves spreading an unknown disease to hundreds of people, often telling his partners after the act, "I have gay cancer.
Because the individuals initially infected were mostly gay or drug users, the public was extremely apathetic.
Due to the transmission methods (sodomy, IV drugs, etc.), AIDS was seen as an "embarrassing" disease and was ignored by the media and government officials (federal AND local, Dems AND Reps, Feinstein, Reagan, and many more).
Everett Koop (Reagan's surgeon general who published the first realistic and understandable report on the insidious disease, disregarding common "pc-isms").
This should be required reading for all; while it appears daunting at 600 pages, it is extremely interesting, well researched, and worth the time spent.
This book took me a long time to read. I could only read small bits at a time. It was both informative and heartbreaking. And it made me think of friends I've lost. But other friends of mine actually lived through this time. It was a complete travesty how long it took this country to come to action against AIDS.
This book is really important, considering:1. We are likely not safe from another random crazy deadly virus that will catch us offguard.2. You have probably underestimated what an asshole Reagan was.3. You might be going to see Milk soon and would like to read of some of what happened after him in SF politics.4. Prop 8 effing passed, proving our society has farther to come than perhaps we realized.Points deducted because apparently the Patient Zero story is a bit hinky. Also it's often a lot to keep plodding through it. Still worthwhile, especially as a historical document.
Shilts documents the search for the virus in all its muddled, politicized, under-funded, disregarded insanity, during which gay men died quickly or slowly, without drugs that did more than eased their passing for years, in their homes or in facilities that had no more notion of how to care for them than they did, cared for by each other and, slowly, by medical personnel who knew they might be risking their own lives.
Doctors, blood banks, and drug companies vied to make money as gays, drug users, and recipients of blood transfusions who got blood while blood banks argued against testing blood for the disease because it was expensive died.
I actually think this book should be required reading at college level for any political science class that is examining the flaws of what our system can become.
Not only in the military industrial complex but perhaps also in the Health Industrial complex - where, as this book so chillingly portrays, the reality is those in power seek to protect that status quo, even if conscious evil intent is absent.
I wait for us, with faith we still can, to come to our collective senses once again.This book was a bright light on injustice ...
Randy Shilts presents the epic tale of the beginning of the AIDs epidemic through the eyes of health officials, scientists, doctors, politicians, patients, and the media.
The book travels all over the world in a careful timeline starting with the very first AIDs patients and ending in 1988.One of the most affecting parts for me was reading about the partisanship, bickering, and politics that overcame good science and public health decisions.
Equal parts medical detective story and train wreck.
I missed my busstop while reading it and ended up by the side of a highway in the hinterlands.
pathologists don't do endobronchial biopsies, pulmonologists do, 2.nobody has to twist a pulmonologists arm to do an endobronchial biopsy or for a pathologist to interpret one, 3.I was around when AIDS showed up and we were fascinated by it and were eager to get that material, 4.Since this little sentence has things in it that I know are false, what is the author saying with it - is he building a case?
Many other stories ring false and have doubtless been spun somehow, after all this book has a message and the author is the man with a hammer.
What I got was a book that was 70% politics (about people I've never heard of, mostly) 10% human drama, 20% history, and only trace of science.
That may not sound fair to Shiltz, but I also felt unfairly treated, when I bought a book that seemed like it would be a tense drama about one of the most important epidemics in the 20th century, and it ended up making me yawn and wonder if I should finish reading it.I recommend this for people who like politics more than science, and anyone who wants a well-rounded understanding of American history.
If someone wished to write an how NOT to, he /she should follow how this book reads.
No one wanted to do anything about it as long as it was kept within the blacks, queers, and hemophiliacs.
As long as it was GRID it didn't matter.When they were told that it was bloodborne and there was a test for it, the American Red Cross didn't want to run the test because it cut into their profits.
This is a great book and should be required reading before graduation.
278), the author identifies the early divisions between San Francisco gays and how this ideological divide stunted the response to the AIDS epidemic (I don't think it was unintentional that Shilts echoed the first line from the Book of Genesis: "In the beginning God created the Heavens and the Earth .
Then those tallies begin to skyrocket and the story of AIDS moves faster than we can keep pace with (as of today, we have 33.4 million infected worldwide and 25 million mortalities).I think about the younger people that I meet who believe that HIV is a manageable disease and it makes me angry.
We've got guts too, plus an awful lot of heart.'""Other doctors were shooting up mice with semen to show that sperm actually was causing the immune suppression.""By NIH budget calculations, the life of a gay man was worth about one-quarter that of a member of the American Legion ...
By the time they were done talking, Gaetan had charmed the man back into bed.""Early Tuesday morning, Shands Hospital (Florida) loaded MacDonald in a private Learjet air ambulance with a doctor and a nurse.
The ambulance stopped at 10th Street (San Francisco), double-parked, and (MacDonald) was quickly bundled onto a gurney.
#2, Reading "Backlash" by Susan Faludi and suddenly learning what it meant to stick up for myself as a woman, and to notice subtle differences between the sexes I had never been adult to pick up on before.
I felt bad that the AIDS quilt was in town and I was so swamped with fulltime school and fulltime work that I couldn't go view it.
I picked up this book instead to educate myself about something I did not know enough about, and finished it a completely changed person.
And as everyone knows, the repercussions from AIDS have been massive.
Tremendously thorough, very engaging, heartbreaking and furious. This was, sadly, a perfect book to read given the recent administration's demonstrated negligence and ineffectiveness in dealing with large-scale crises. Especially crises that are most devastating to vulnerable communities (i.e., everyone not white, cis, straight, Christian, male).
A friend of mine loaned me this book in the late eighties, and it cut through the illogical and gimmicky rhetoric I was hearing about HIV/AIDS in my late teens.
I guess from the outset, I saw AIDS as a medical problem, not a moral one, and I when I read this book I discovered I was not the only person who felt this way.
Older and wiser, I knew to stop what I was doing and open up the class to a discussion on HIV/AIDS.
This landmark work is a detailed investigative report and eventual scathing indictment of the social and political forces that helped contribute to the tragic and rapid spread of the AIDS epidemic in its earliest years. Twenty years later, it still stands as one of the most important books on its topic.
A great and compelling book, but somehow, even in Reagan's America, it's hard to go along with the conspiracy theorists who make out that the government was merrily fiddling away while Rome burned. I mean, look at the response which people got when they wanted to close the bath houses.
They are actors and writers and designers and dancers and editors and retailers and decorators and sometimes when you see their names in the obituary pages of the [ New York] Times  you think, yes, I knew that fellow....The dead are homosexuals who have contracted and will perish from AIDS.
Almost everyone who knew them knows this, but there is a gentle, loving conspiracy of silence to deny reality....Men are dying and we in the press cough politely and draw curtains of discretion across the truth.
But this book showed me that I don't know as much as I thought I knew.
Shilts can hardly be faulted for this given his professional and personal immersion in San Francisco's gay community so I don't think it's reasonable to criticize him for not being impartial, but I do wish he'd explicitly acknowledged his authorial power and influence at one point or another.
ATBPO upends both of these charges, and for this reason alone is certainly a classic.
Shilts weaves together a stunningly wide variety of people and perspectives, bouncing between the ramifications the early AIDS epidemic had on public health, public policy, medicial/scientific research, blood banks, the gay community, government spending, media coverage, social stigma...ad infinitum.
This book catalogs one of the great nadirs of modern American life; a time when institutionalized apathy and indifference in almost every government and societal institution directly lead to the unspeakable suffering and death of tens of thousands of Americans at the hands of the most frightening plague of the modern age.
This is a great book to read in conjunction with Oshinsky's Bellevue, which details the history of medicine in general and includes a brief summary of the story told in this book.
Even though this book was written in 1987, it is worth reading now because of its attention to how the AIDS virus was handled by not only medical personnel but the government who was meant to protect individuals from serious epidemics like AIDS.
When you finish reading the book, treat yourself to the HBO original movie that brought this book to life.
I skipped most of the first part, only because I had just read the book.
Because, as depressing a book as this turned out to be, it was also incredibly hard to put down.I was born in 1982, so I didn't know what AIDS was until the early nineties, I suppose.
Now he knew better."This book gives a detailed account on what happened in the early years of the AIDS epidemic.
I've read a few books with darker subject matter, but all books had one thing in common: that while there are bad people, there are also good people.
And that's the important thing to remember, and to try and be one of the good people, too, if at all possible.
The book touched me in so many ways and I am not sure I have the talent, time or patience to express all of them in a review.People with aids have a Deficient immune system and therefor they contract many painful and horrible diseases that people with an intact immune system do not get.
The right wing political movements were (are) mostly opposed to gay behavior, and therefore stay away from the issue.
This caused delays in understanding the disease, its cause and prevention.There is a movie based on this book, I watched some of it and it is good.
So if you don't have time or want to read the book, you can watch the movie.
It highlights the stories of different people who died of AIDS as well as the doctors, researchers, and politicians working to combat the epidemic.
While this book did make me sad to see the stories of so many different people who died of AIDS, this book mostly made me so incredibly angry.
DO SOMETHING”I wanted to read this book because most of my knowledge of the AIDS epidemic came from seeing it portrayed in fictionalized ways in books or movies.
I’d recommend reading this book if you’re interested in learning more about the early days of the AIDS epidemic.
Here we are, in October of 2014, watching the Ebola crisis finally hitting the U.S. Where it goes, nobody knows, but we are already seeing a botched effort to contain the disease.As of today, there are 36 million people living with HIV/AIDS and 36 million people who have died of the disease over the past 55 years (including those who perished up to 22 years before the disease was identified).
Interestingly enough, the main epidemiologist working at the Centers for Disease Control at the onset of AIDS had been in the field during the 1974 discovery of the Ebola virus.I watch the panic unfolding on the news, on social media and I think about this book.
In 1981, when doctors first started noticing young men turning up in their offices with strange ailments that usually only afflicted the elderly, they pushed for a strong research backing to find out what was causing it.
The news that the virus that causes AIDS was isolated (and thus we could start on devising a test that would tell people if they were infected or not) was withheld for more than a year while researchers argued over who would get the credit (and thus the royalties).
I read  Randy Shilts tome for a Sociology of HIV/AIDS course at University of Toronto in the summer of 2005, arguably one of the most popular and most difficult courses to get into on the undergraduate schedule.
We read Shilts' book as a text and avoided more technical writing because it lacked the humanity of a person caught in the streets at the beginning of the global epidemic.
There is a global lesson learned, and I hope every person has a chance to read this beautiful and required polemic on pandemic disease in the modern world.
Like so many straight people, I had few contacts in the gay world when the AIDS epidemic began to take hold, and since (as I now know, thanks to Shilts) almost no major newspapers or media were following the story, it wasn't until the news broke about Rock Hudson that I began to understand what was happening.
Shilts fills in those gaps for everyone like me.
As the book progresses in its mesmerizing, chronological style, jumping from place to place, alternating personal stories with political and medical intrigue, the moments of frustration and disbelief grow.
