https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/106164.The_Medical_Detectives
Updating this rating to 5 stars (January 6th, 2008), because it was one of the five best books I read in 2007.This "classic collection of award-winning medical investigative reporting", published in 1988, is an excellent book.
Each of the 25 case studies originally appeared as an "Annals of medicine" piece in the New Yorker, and there's not a dud in the bunch.
Furthermore, to be fair, the possibility has to be acknowledged that my vague "I do not like thee Doctor Fell" reaction to Sacks can be traced back to nothing more than damning him by association with Robin Williams.
25 fascinating case studies, each concisely and elegantly presented.
This was a wonderful read because it presented medical facts and histories of diseases and their epidemiology in an incredibly accessible manner. It's not easy to make non fiction enjoyable, more so when you're writing about the gruesome subject of disease! But Berton Roueché does a splendid job of that.The cases have been written in the manner of detective stories and make for really riveting reading. The stories I liked the most was that of Rabies, mass hysteria and of course, typhoid Mary.

One of my favorite books from childhood--it's very old-fashioned (when's the last time you thought of Farrah Fawcett-Majors as a current fad?), and medically/socially out-of-date, but most of these essays still have the thrill of a good episode of House (note: it's never Lupus). Some of these I believe were episodes of House. Heroes are not the doctors (who are basically good and pragmatic, occasionally wry), or the patients (who are confused, pathetic, simply drawn)--it's the group procedural detective work, and the wonderful, New Yorker-style editing. Some favorites: "Eleven Blue Men," "Two Blue Hands," "Sandy"--but all are good like chocolate.
This book have changed my idea about epidimiology. For someone like me, who loves sherlock holmes, Agatha christie and every detective and detection story, this book was the best ever. Although it was written along time ago but I found it to be usful and it helped me a lot. planing to read it again, and more than that, to study it.
What a great book!
Roueche was a writer for the New Yorker, covering medical mystery stories.
This book was suggested to me by Maggie Merman, a doctor in Atlanta whom I rotated with when I was a medical student.
Fabulous stories about all sorts of medical mysteries: the blue men, an orange man, a case of rabies, a case of a boy poisoned by his blue jeans...
His descriptions of ticks and of the rabies virus are great.
The stories are written in lay terms, so they are each to follow.
This book provided much of the content for House, MD , the first seasons. House, MD fans will recognize the anthrax from insulation case.
Berton Roueché's writing is unparalleled in the realm of nonfiction medical narratives.
Unlike so much of science writing involving outbreaks, his work brims with technical details integrated well enough to inform the reader and inspire curiosity.
You finish every story feeling like you've learned something, which might not attract a general reader with little interest in epidemiology.
At times, he overuses long quotes and dedicates a page or two to the ramblings of a subject, but it's clear from the sections that are purely Roueché that he was meticulous researcher and master story crafter.
(Also, his uncanny access to CDC researchers and physicians?
I'm no PhD holder, so a lot of this was over my head and a bit drawn out. Roueche does a good job of describing the uniqueness of a lot of these situations but for a regular schmoe like me it holds interest half as well.For those in the medical game I could see this book being a wild world of entertaining patience and guessing while they are figuring out rare diseases and such. For the regulars out there, prepare to be somewhat lost but interested enough to keep reading.
An excellent book regarding real medical mysteries. It is written in an interview format, which makes the stories more realistic. The cases presented in the book are really fascinating. Definitely try it if you are a bit into medicine or biology!
After watching House M.D., I decided to do some reading about medical mysteries. This is a great collection of essays that features a broad array of medical problems that took a while to diagnose.
Roueche' captures our interest with true cases and the history behind diseases and their treatment.
Not all diseases are caused by bacteria, viruses, fungi, or parasites.
Some are caused by poisons or improper nutrition.
The author covers the entire spectrum, giving an example of each.
He presents us with a case of rabies, its treatment, and its history, which is rather wild.
We learn why rabies was also called hydrophobia, which is an aversion to water.
One example was to toss the victim into the water until he was forced to swallow water and supposedly cured.
Stories you'll want to tell someone else about!
(Though maybe not over dinner...)A compilation of 25 different unusual medical cases.
A handful are presented as the doctor trying to figure out what could be causing certain symptoms, but with most, the disease is known and it's up to epidemiologists to track down the specific cause along with who else might be affected--or infected, as the case may be.
* * * * *Somewhat uneven writing between chapters, with some very slow and tedious to get through (particularly the chapter about aspirin) and others high interest to the end.
I ended up retelling many of the stories to my kids.
I guess you can tell there's a strong medical influence in our home!
The main difference here is viruses, bacteria and poisons instead of human serial killers.The book was written in the 80s, so some of the medical information is probably outdated now, but it did not really matter to me, since my favorite part of the book was the medical investigation: identify a disease, find the source of an outbreak and control any possible wider spread.
A little worrisome, given that now I think I will have some horrible disease and no one will know what it is, but other than that I loved it!
Every now and then I thought his style was a little confusing, in that vast passages of the book are just quotes from various doctors on the case — not that this was a bad thing, but that it was sometimes confusing to remember, after 5 or more pages, which of the ten doctors that were involved with the case was speaking.
But, despite this, it was a very engaging read, whether because of fear of disease, or just in general.
The stories are very interesting generally, though some more so than others.
I especially liked the ones where the ailment was very unusual.
lolI do feel like a lot of the more technical talk could have been cut out; it tended to make the stories drag.
I hate to sound like I think they should be "dumbed down" but after all, they're not written with doctors and scientists in mind.
A fascinating collection of stories, perfect for the type of people who watch Discovery Health or shows like Medical Mysteries or Untold Stories of the ER.
Some of these stories go all the way back to the late 1940s.
But some are still obscure and mysterious.
And since it was broken up into stories of about 20 pages or so, it made for good reading when I didn't have tons of time.
Not sure who I will pass this along to -- has to be someone with a medical bent in order for it to be appreciated.
I really enjoyed this book. It has simple cases of "medical mysteries" and tracks the ways in which doctors, epidemiologists, amateur entymologists, etc., helped crack the cases. The stories were compiled in the 50's and 60's, so there is a lot of emphasis on mroe epidemiological mysteries like smallpox outbreaks or salmonella infections. What's interesting is that, even though most of the diseases he covers are common, (even ancient!), figuring out what they are can often be a herculean task. And once a disease is diagnosed, figuring out the reservoir of the infection is trickier still.
This is the seminal book of the medical mystery genre. I loved it, even though many of the stories from the 1950s were amusingly dated (oh the horror - a single injection of anti-rabies serum used in the Pasteur regimen cost an alarming FIVE WHOLE DOLLARS!). SoMe of the diseases were unfamiliar, but for a veterinarian there any also plenty of old friends like tularemia, rabies, and psittacosis discussed in this book. I love the matter-of-fact descriptions of the tried and true epidemiological fieldwork. Makes me want to get an advanced degree in epidemiology!
I liked much of this book and gave it three stars which is interesting because I did not finish it.
Many of the cases are interesting and it is nicely paced in how he breaks down all the cases, but after a while I just lost interest in this book.
I started reading other books in between each case and then found myself unwilling to pick it up again.
I have no real explanaition for why I lost such interest in this book even though I found it enjoyable.
I would recommend it to anyone with an interest in the subject.
What fun! I love the quote on the opening page: "I hope that Lord Gran and you are well--no easy thing seeing that there are above 1500 diseases to which Man is subjected." (from a letter written by Sidney Smith) This book gives short, pithy chapters chronicling the adventures of epidemiologists, public health specialists, doctors, and sufferers in their fight against some of the more dramatic of the 1500. The book is fascinating and fun to read, though it will make you reel if you're prone to hypochondria.
Even if medical histories or medical non-fiction are not your cup of tea, I would still recommend reading this book. Yes, the specifics about each of the cases are very interesting from a diagnostic and medical standpoint, but - more than that - this book is about thinking outside of the box to problem-solve. If you are at all jazzed by mysteries or logic puzzles, I think you would really enjoy this.
If you like reading Dr. Lisa Sanders "Diagnosis" column in The New York Times Magazine, you will enjoy The Medical Detectives. Similarly, this compilation of cases comes from what was a regular column in The New Yorker magazine. It is especially interesting as the cases date from 1947 to 1988, so you can see the progress of medicine over the years. If you don't like watching "CSI" or "House", then don't read this book.
This book was fascinating. Each chapter is a real life medical mystery--most cases are two-pronged: what is the disease? Once we know that, where did it start, how did it spread, and do we need to stop it? You get an insight into epidemiology in this book, which is new for me. It also has a wonderful mid-twentieth century charm: all the medical detecting is leg work, phone calls, and research in books.
A fantastic read if you are looking for something medical. Every chapter is a new story about the diseases and cases that doctor deal with (almost) every day. As this book was written in the 1950s to 60s the medical technology was much different and it was very interesting to see how doctors then delt with problems that we can easily deal with now. Over all, if you are looking to feed your science side and love diseases and medicine, this book is for you
This reads like a thriller ...and in many ways is one. The anecdotes put together in this book go over some medical mysteries looking at diseases and poisons. Some of the best chapters include the man who turned orange and the scary story of a man who returns from his trip around the world with a parasite that won't leave.
I am thoroughly enjoying this. Brilliantly written and a mesmerizing reminder of how much has changed in 60 years. Gone are the days of typhus in NYC! Yet the deductive diagnostic and investigative process remains the same. Medical mysteries have become passé these days, yet I find Roueché's, the first ever, read fresh. Can't wait to get back to it.
A collection of articles that ran in the New Yorker from the later '50s to the late '80s. The stories are interesting, but perhaps even more fascinating is the glimpse into the recent past before small pox was eradicated, when bats where just become known as vectors for rabies, when aspirin was the best treatment for rheumatoid arthritis.
My dad gave me a copy of this book when I was probably 9 or 10 because he loved it, and we've spent the intervening decade + referring to its different stories - even more fun now that medical school brings up the individual diseases I learned about first in these puzzles. One of my most fondly remembered childhood readings.
This book is excellent! The writing is good, the stories intriguing, and even though some of the stories are 50+ years old, the information is still pertinent. I was swooning over the fabulous vocabulary in one story, I learned exactly what anthrax is in another, and I learned to be more cautious about food.
