https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6070950-bed-of-roses
Oh my heart, this was such a beautiful story!It’s been a while since I read Nora Roberts’s contemporary romance novel, and Bed of Roses didn’t disappoint.
This was exactly what I want from my read!I loved NR’s excellent writing.I loved this very simple yet well-knit plot.I loved both main and secondary characters.I loved the romance between Jack and Emma.I loved the true friendship between these four women.I loved the drama and the groveling.I loved the ending… very, very beautiful!What surprised me the most about this book was how wonderful Emma is!
She’s beautiful inside and out, so loving, thoughtful, caring, kind, reasonable, open-hearted, hard-working, clever, and reliable.
Nora Roberts is definitely hitting the ball inside of the park in this series.It's just so meh.Maybe I just have to keep reading to find the hero and heroine that I like better. Yeah, that's what I'll do.No. No. It's just a flesh wound. It will get better.I have a good feeling about the next book. Really.
The amount of page time spent on Emma's flower preparations (flower names of which I was not familiar with and sounded like a foreign language to me so I struggled even picturing them) countless business meetings, wedding preparations and endless code names MOB, MOG, BMO, RB, etc., got really tedious to read through and annoying at some points.
Naturally Jack being a typical guy is too stunned and tries to process what she's telling him and instead of giving him the chance to actually TALK, she takes his stunned reaction and runs with it like a woman scorned.
4 1/2 starsAfter finding Vision in White a good but slightly disappointing read, I "knew" - as far as anyone can know such thing - that I'd enjoy Bed of Roses better.
Something to do with this 2nd book being better received by most readers and my having lower expectations, I guess.
No matter why, I did find Bed of Roses highly entertaining.Emma was the main reason this book worked for me, with her utterly romantic nature.
Argh!Anyway, besides that small bump in the road, I thoroughly enjoyed watching Emma and Jack's friendship develop and grow into love.
I don't know about that first book that received such crappy reviews .
I fell in love with Emma and Jack and CERTAINLY all the "Vows" wedding planner group of friends (all of which will have a book of course).
I loved how all the four girlfriends interacted with each other, and the guys .
Great book.
Do not miss this romantic tale, even if you're not normally attracted to the ever prolific (and sometime skeptical thinking in how does she "write all those so quickly") thinkiing of Nora Roberts books.
No suspense or mystery involved.The relationship between the four friends is the cornerstone of the series and Bed of Roses is Emmaline Grant's story.
Emma is the florist at Vows, the wedding planning business that she co-owns with her three best friends, Parker, Mac and Laurel.
(There's no disputing that this man works as hard as he plays!) I got a kick out of the testosterone-centric moments in this book - poker, beer, and male bonding at its' best!Jack and Emma have been friends for several years, but are in denial about their mutual attraction to each other.
She’s had the hots for Jack, her best friend’s brother’s best friend, for 10 years now, but has never made a move because she didn’t want to make their friendship awkward.
Watching Emma and Jack navigate the slippery slope between romance and long-term friendship was sweet and fun and made me teary in a few places, if I’m being honest.
There might be bumps along the road, but there are always great friends to pick you up and dust you off and help you find your rainbow’s end.
Short Review: Bed of Roses, is the second book in Nora Roberts Bride Quartet series.
It’s a solid book with well developed characters and if you always buy every book that Nora Roberts writes I’m not writing this review for you.
So now you now where I’m coming from and you can read my review a bit more enlightened.For me Nora Roberts’ books always, and I do mean always (no equivocation), have fully developed characters that you want to sit down and have dinner with.
This quartet of books features four different women, best friends, Parker, Laurel, Emma and Mac, who own and run a ‘premier wedding planning company’ called Vows.
it was amazing it made me cry
Gostei da parte do romance e do facto de mais uma vez o seu interesse amoroso ser alguém do círculo de amigos e foi engraçado ela e o Jack serem amigos há tanto tempo e só agora admitirem à atração que sentiam um pelo o outro.
O Jack acabou por ser um pouco mais desenvolvido com toda ã situação de não querer comprometer-se a sério com a Emma mas claro que no fim acaba tudo bem e ã Emma vê o seu sonho realizado.http://algodaodoceparaocerebro.blogsp...
This was so dumb and cheesy. The only saving grace were the snippets we'd get from the perspective of other characters.
Many women love Nora Roberts, and after having fallen for her In Death series that she writes under the pseudonym J.D. Robb at the end of last year, I figured, why not try her other works?
I think what makes a series and/or its characters sexy is having good character development and good chemistry between the MCs - but I'm just not seeing that with this series.And I'm sorry to all NR fans out there, but I honestly can't imagine her other works being any more suitable to my reading tastes, either.
4 stars; from just sheer enjoyment, I would have given this 4 1/2, but I deducted half a star for two reasons: (a) the heroine is the personality twin of the heroine in Convincing Alex of the Stanislaskis series; and (b) TOO MUCH WEDDING DETAIL!!!!
I know it's a book about wedding planners, but come on!
When the plot hits the conflict and all of the women group together to protect Emma, all I could think was that was really insulting to Emma, and really immature of her to hide behind them.
Nora Roberts has a formula in her romance series that really works for me.
It's a winning theme that carries across many of her books, and it is one of which I will NEVER tire.This series doesn't have quite as much strife in it as some, as the something happening to mess it up is more like an argument and a misunderstanding than something like a not-so-friendly ghost coming back from the grave to drive the lovers apart, causing them to be in mortal danger.
As with any of the Nora Roberts series I have read, I want to continue with the story now!
I felt like the players were much fleshed out then in the first, Vision in White.
They’ve been like siblings since they were twelve, and in the past few years and have started noticing each other in a different way.Emma is the florist in her quarter of Vows, the wedding planning business she owns with her 3 best friends.
The story line is defiantly not a new one, but it works for me.There is a lot of banter between everyone.
However I am so glad I liked this one.
I was contemplating jumping off Nora’s wagon after the last few books.
This was also OK but I did like it a bit better than the first of the series. You see more personalities and different characters and you kind of figuring out who Will end up together in the later series. It has a little bit more humor too.
This series is more than a contemporary romance, there’s a little of chick-lit in it as well, but especially it’s an ode to female friendship.
Mac, Emma, Laurel and Parker are such friends and it’s always a pleasure and a hoot to read about them and their bond.An added plus, we didn’t get to read only about female friendship, but male friendship as well, and discovered how different they are.
She knew what Jack was like, they’ve been going out for months, a little longer and he’d mellow, I’m sure.
Ki kendisi de bu masalları ilk elden deneyimlemek istese de şansı şu zamana kadar pek yaver gitmemiştir.Dört ortak, Parker’ın ağabeyi Delaney ve onun arkadaşı mimar Jack ayrılmaz bir ailedir.
Jack ve Emma arasındaki ufak kıvılcımlar bir gün büyüyüp ikisinin de karşı koyamayacağı bir hale büründüğünde, işler karışmaya başlayacaktır.Aralarındaki uyum çok güzeldi gerçekten.
İlk kitapta olduğu gibi Vows’u kuran yakın arkadaşlar Mac, Parker, Laurel ve Emma ayrılmaz bir bütün olmaya devam ediyorlardı.
Anahtar serisinde olduğu gibi yazar aşkı da önemli bir yere koysa da ilk olarak dostluğu, ana karakterlerin arasındaki güçlü ve sağlam bağları ön plana çıkarıyor.
If Emma was in the room with me I'd throw her out the window.
Her friends were just as bad.
He was willing to admit that he had blown it (even though I think that she should be the one saying those words) and they won't even listen to ONE WORD.
Friends like that.....who needs them.
And I want to throw my computer out the window.
She's finally deigned to forgive him for all his sins against her, and he's going to do the big grovel.
And I'm going to puke.
I just don't want to listen to this last ten minutes if somehow she isn't going to redeem herself.
And I love Parker, but I think I like her a little bit less after that whole scenario, so my enjoyment of the book took a hit there.To be honest, I feel as if Emma basically showed Jack that it was either a marriage or a break-up in their future and wow, way to push a guy to ask you to marry him.
The constant abbreviations for various wedding guests were also a little bit much here, and I don't think Roberts truly understands the game of soccer, because the way she wrote that brief scene with Parker and Emma just made me roll my eyes because of its inaccuracy.However, I'm still very much looking forward to the next two books.
But I can't deny that my very favorite scene in this book was when the five women were discussing prior kisses (or prior lacks of kisses) from Jack.As for the romance itself, I was sailing along, no strong feelings but getting mild enjoyment from it, until requisite the big fight, and then I was just kind of gaping at how Jack was made into the bad guy.
I could have dealt with Emma's refusal to communicate or to let Jack communicate and with the hissy fit she throws, but when her friends joined in to baby her and to leave Jack (their friend, too) out in the cold, I lost my taste for this book.
I have all four of this series on my Kobo from the library and I'm going to finish them but I'm feeling suffocated in fondant and flower petals.There's zero suspense.
Lost all respect for Emma when she had a major meltdown because the man she'd been dating for two months hadn't declared his love, asked her to marry him, given her a key, and let her tart the place up with girly flowers.Well, duh.
And don't get me started on the fight between him and Del over Emma as if she was some kind of possession who couldn't choose her own date.I wanted some fun wedding problems, but they're few and far between and always handled so perfectly.Everything's perfect.
Ok, I would have given this a 4 because of the emotion I felt between Emma and Jack, BUT all the damn wedding and flower talk bumped it down for me. Way too much of that going on. Loved Jack and Emma though...great couple.
And I ended up loathing the other characters in this book who decided that well they couldn't be friends with Jack anymore since Emma was so hurt.
So of course this will totally be okay with Emma even though she knows before she gets involved with Jack, he is not looking for anyone to settle down with.Honestly the chemistry between these two was meh.
But I really did get ticked towards the end when all of the so-called friends freeze Jack out after Emma seriously acted like a freaking child.
Of course all romances need to end with an engagement, apparently, but I think his concerns about not wanting to be so involved were worthy, too, and I wish they had tackled the subject slowly, getting him more and more comfortable with Emma having a presence in his life, until he realizes that yes, they are basically married already.
What kind of a friend are you?"(After it's revealed that Parker also kissed Jack way back) "I think it's disgusting," Mac muttered.
The good kind of crying...Besides flowers, Emma is also the heart of Vows.
It is characteristic of her that she doesn't so much “dump” boyfriends as she introduces them to their next romantic possibility.Emma is also smart enough to know before they even begin that a relationship with Del's friend Jack could spell lots and lots of pain for them and all their friends.
Jack has been friends with Del forever and all four of the ladies at Vows know him pretty well.
Not just the partners at Vows, though that's surely center-stage, but Del and Jack's friendship is beautifully depicted and faithfully explored by Roberts.
Bed of Roses by Nora Roberts is one of my favourite romances!I love wedding themed works - movies, books, art, pictures, clothing, dresses, make-up, hair, etc!
At the time of reading this book, I was OBSESSED with wedding dress shows, so it was only fitting that I binged all four book in this fantabulous series!
Nora writes a beautiful contemporary romance novel that fits well within the series.
I definitely related to two of the girls more than the others, but all readers are different!I'd definitely recommend this series if you want a super cute romance novel that isn't going to make you think hard.
This i the 2nd book in the Bride Quartet and it tells Emma and Jack's story.
Emma and Jack try moving from friends to lovers.I am giving this book a 2 1/2 star because I liked it up to page 304.
Emma and Jack's interactions through most of the book are a joy to read, fun and upbeat with enough heat to liven them up without being over the top.
While I expected a fight scene and would have relished reading it, the scene that I read and her emotional break was embarrassing and ruined the end of the book for me.
The second book in the series of four friends who run an upscale wedding business.
He's an architect and best friend of the brother of one of the other women in the quartet.Friends who fall in love.
Girl from a happy home falls for the guarded bachelor type guy.
I think to fall for the charm of Nora Roberts, I need to space the reading of the books further apart.
The next two books in the quartet were set up and will be published in six months.
I can wait and I will read them just because I liked the four women in the books.
n Bed of Roses, florist Emma Grant is finding career success with her friends at Vows wedding planning company, and her love life appears to be thriving.
Though men swarm around her, she still hasn’t found Mr. Right.
And the last place she’s looking is right under her nose.Okay, this was a little cheesier than I would have liked but that is Emma Grant and frankly I ate up the cheese as if it was brie.
I love the friendships and their business...
and I am enjoying reading how each find love.
