https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13817.Shards_of_a_Broken_Crown
In this book, Pug is all like:Another great book from Feist - this one wraps up the Serpentwar Series and is almost more of a full book Epilogue than a final chapter (I hope that description makes sense).
I know he is trying to honor past characters, and that is a common thing for royalty to do, but for the first third of the book I got confused if he was talking about a current character in the story line or one from previous storylines.
If you don't want spoilers, click to something else!At the end of the third book, the demon king Jakan was defeated (with no drama or tension) by Pug, Tomas, Miranda and the annoying Nakor.
In short, this whole thing could have been crammed into a single chapter of epilogue at the end of Demon King, which for all its faults, was a much better story than this.The first irritation for me is the constantly mysterious Nakor, who disguises any and every true mystery and pleasure in the book with cryptic phrases and silly smiles.
Το τρίτο ο μεγάλος πόλεμος φτάνει στο αποκορύφωμα του καθώς οι ήρωες μας αντιλαμβάνονται ότι παίζονται πολλά περισσότερα από τον έλεγχο κάποιων εδαφών, με τις σκοτεινές δυνάμεις του σύμπαντος να επιδιώκουν την καταστροφή.
Στο τέταρτο, όμως, η κατάσταση δεν είναι δεν είναι και τόσο καλή καθώς μετά την κορύφωση δεν υπάρχουν και πολλά να πούμε, με αποτέλεσμα να μοιάζει με ένα τεράστιο επίλογο που αν και αυτός έχει μία κορύφωση που στο τέλος στην πραγματικότητα λίγο ο συγγραφέας μας ξενερώνει.
Συνολικά πάντως μπορώ να πω ότι αν και δε φτάνει την πρώτη σειρά σίγουρα πρόκειται για ένα εξαιρετικό δείγμα του είδους που πιστεύω ότι μάλλον αφήνει ικανοποιημένους τους φανατικούς.
No clever games in the style of Jimmy the Hand or heroic endavours by any of our heroes, no.The thing is that Feist tried really hard to give the general feel of a kingdom at war here, with the perils and feelings of devastation, the civilians turning on each other, and the hardship of each day.
But nevertheless, when the only character you can actually relate to is the one the writer has desperately tried to portray as being childish and immature, you know something is wrong with the book.I wouldn’t have shed the tear had Feist just written another fifty pages to Rage of A Demon King, and called it the end.
On that, it looks like Feist has made much more of Midkemia, and when I can't find something else to grab me, I will probably turn to these books.
They aren't great, but they are dependably good.In this series, the character of Erik dominates the first book, but his character is rather thin, and by this book he is relegated to a side story, and he remains rather dull.
Dash, it turns out, is a pretty worthwhile character.
I'm afraid however that they have now grown up and will thus be too good to be interesting in later books.I also enjoyed Pug in this book, and always Nakor.
Please, please it can't end here!: This is a book that hits you at many different levels.
This has a normalising effect on the characters and you end up seeing them as ordinary people effected by extra ordinary circumstances.
On another level it is a great military campaign, the kingdom of the west has to fight a two front campaign and no one but Feist can take you there like this.
The only problem with the book is that it ends.
There are hints and suspicions woven into the book about Nakor but you still don't know that much about his heritage.
Pug's amazing, Nakor's amazing, Jimmy and Dash's (and Arutha's) struggles with constantly living in the shadows of their forefathers is incredibly relatable to me and everything is just so masterfully done. EXCELLENT end to the Serpentwar.
It was a pretty solid ending overall.
I liked that this book focused primarily on Dash and Jimmy this time around.
I find/found Dash's character to be incredibly charming and interesting, and his inevitable decision at the end of the book seemed right to me.
And finally setting the stage for the overall series to move forward from here.
Looking forward to seeing where else this goes, but i'm not sure how excited i am for 6 or 7 flashback books (one series being based on a 90s adventure PC game) before we get back to Pug and friends dealing with their new shadow-war.
While interesting it wandered much more in scope, and in character views, and I think this affected my view of the story.
I read this as an ebook and found that there was no break between viewing the story from character to another and this caused confusion several times.
I would read about Eric fighting and giving orders on the field, and the next line would be Patrick being hailed at the palace.
This was not a chapter based separation but between character interactions.
Perhaps the printed version is more clear, but the nook version was not.As such fair warning to those reading on ebook format.
I like the brothers, Jimmy and Dash, but I couldn't really get into "the brothers' tale."Rereading it now, though, I was quite pleased with the story, for the same reason I enjoy Feist's other stories.
I liked watching Jimmy and Dash come into their own, and watching the men from Novindus embrace the concept of a nation.I did find myself wishing that this particular saga was a quintet.
I really wanted to know what happens next in Dash's life.
The rest of the characters, the rest of their stories will be plain enough, but Dash...
his looked interesting.Not that Feist ever has uninteresting stories.
Really struggled with this book. Not sure if this is because there was quite a gap between me finishing the previous book be starting this one. I just found that I didn't really care and I had to force myself to finish. Very little tension and even though old characters, such as Pug were included, they did not feel as developed to me. I loved this series but am not sure now whether to continue. Will leave for a bit and then try the next saga and hopefully find my interest reawakened
And haste again won. It was quite enjoyable to read about warfare and different schemes to keep kingdom together and then in the middle of book out of nowhere came some mystic black power which appearance felt to book story and style likes nails on blackboard. Book badly needs refurbishing and reediting to make it more enjoyable as the story was great.
Feist could have combined the military story of Erik von Darkmoor, the economic story of Roo Avery and the political story of Krondor's ruling nobility into a story of the compromises and struggles needed to restore peace and prosperity.Instead, it was a largely pointless exercise in box-checking, in which the main characters are largely passive.
The evil plot comes largely out of nowhere in the final act of the book, and is resolved almost as quickly as it's introduced with little help from the characters we've spent most of the book following.As for the political plotline of the invasion from Kesh, we're treated to some second-rate skullduggery and lots of hamhanded blustering from the mouth of Patrick, the new Prince of Krondor, who is uniformly dismissed as incompetent and over his head (if generally decent).
I loved the third, 5 stars all the way, and this fourth book was also pretty good but the climax was pitiful.
As did Roo. I get that Calis had his big moment in book 3 (another example of random magic solving the story's crisis) but for a character who cared so much about the invasion from Novindus, it seems very out of character for him to retreat to his home and spend the final chapter of this saga doing pretty much nothing at all.Oh well, Feist has his moments.
I've read 12 of his books and on average they're 3-star novels.
The concluding story of the Serpent War is another gem from Feist. With the defeat and death of the Emerald Queen one might think that the Kingdom would have time to rebuild and consolidate. Not a bit of it. The Keshians seize the opportunity to make a grab for land they claim as their own and he Emerald Queens old general sets himself up as King of the Bitter Sea and is looking to expand his empire. With Krondor destroyed and many dead as a result of war with the Emerald Queen who is left to d
With the defeat and death of the Emerald Queen one might think that the Kingdom would have time to rebuild and consolidate.
With Krondor destroyed and many dead as a result of war with the Emerald Queen who is left to defend the Kingdom.
Even with magical help from Pug, Miranda and Nakor can the kingdom survive treachery, and war on many fronts?
This was I felt an excellent conclusion to the Serpent War saga wrapping up a lot of loose ends whilst at the same time providing struggles enough for the survivors to take into future stories.
The whole book has portrayed a stagnant and quite narrow battle line and a war of attrition, and suddenly Pug swoops north and fight the 'end of level baddy'.
I don't know; perhaps had Fadawah been dealt with earlier, and then Erik, Tomas, Pug etc arrived at a besieged Krondor in time to save the day, after the fight had really been joined, then perhaps that might have worked.I'm just left feeling a little flat by the end.
Who knows.Next is the Krondor: trilogy - three Feist books I've actually never read!
with a Feist novel before but that's how I feel regarding this instalment.
I can't be arsed going back and looking for examples but there are sentences that make no sense.
After the last instalment, which was epic, this pales devastatingly.
I am actually convinced that a ghost writer was given a bigger role that they should have been.You get to know an author's style after reading a number of their books and this is not Feist's usual delivery.
It makes no sense to me that this could be anyone's favourite in the series because of it's mediocrity.
This book follows the aftermath of the demon's defeat.
The armies of the Kingdom are stretched and the Emerald Queen's forces have decided they want to carve out a new kingdom for themselves.
Dash and Jimmy feature more prominently in this book.
Feist tends to focus on a couple of characters in each book and these 2 are mischievous like their Grandfather Jimmy the Hand so they were fun to follow.
This series in particular has killed off many of the original main characters, so it has more emotional punch than some of the other series.

I liked this one because I found Jimmy and Dash, who were big focuses in this one, a lot more interesting than Erik and Roo, who were big focuses in the previous few.
Because I found the characters interesting it gave back some of the magic of the series I felt in the beginning, but this book 4 was a lot of aftermath and set up for more to come after what felt like a weak climax.
It does the job well enough that it makes me want to continue the series and feel that it looks promising when I had nearly wanted to put it down and only possibly return at a later date.
Enfin ! ENFIN ! Après 4 mois, je suis enfin parvenu à me traîner (c'est vraiment le mot) jusqu'au bout de ce quatrième tome. Deux-trois chapitres de plus à la fin du tome 3 auraient suffi à boucler le cycle, plutôt que de le traîner en longueur pendant 650 pages -_-'Et pourtant, les trois premiers tomes étaient géniaux.Maintenant, j'espère que le cycle du Conclave des Ombres saura reprendre sur de bonnes bases :)
Having read the first three books in this series, it only seemed appropriate to finish it. Like the previous volume, this novel is basically a lot of battles as a new foe takes on the forces of the Kingdom. The war takes place in a number of locations and involves all the main characters, focussing mainly on Jimmy and Dash, who both acquire new and exciting roles by the end of the book.I could have done with more non-fighting plot but this book is OK as it stands.
I've thoroughly enjoyed the Serpentwar Sagas, even though I now realise I should have started with The Rift Wars, these will be visited by future reading. Raymond Feist is not afraid to kill off his darings, which is a refreshing concept, even though I'd fallen in love with them.
Dash and Jimmy lives serving the kingdom trying to repair and restore the lands in the aftermath of the war. Plans within plans, still fighting a great evil, Nakor's works for the good Lady. Pug and Miranda and Tomas also have a strong role.
Great easy read
Well worth reading .It leaves you wondering what is going to happens next, sometimes you figure it out but sometimes you don't. I enjoy reading his books.
Concludes the serpent warA little disappointed as the plot was developing well but then was resolved by pug saying I've had enough. I felt cheated
4.5*. A great conclusion to another series set in this all-immersive universe.
Most satisfying read - of the whole 4 books. Had no idea I would read them all so quickly, back-to-back. I usually become bored with a series and need a break after book 2.
So far, this one is the best book of all the saga.
Sometimes I missed the intervention of some of the characters and I wished something more from the ending, but the story of two brothers Jimmy and Dash, grandchildren of famous Jimmy The Hand was the most interesting so far, since the adventures of Arutha on his multiple quests.
I surely detested the death of so loved heroes, and the stupidity of others, but it maid only better the raise of the worthy ones.
Sadly, for me, the previous books made it hard to keep hope of some good story, but nevertheless it was an important basis for the fourth part.
