https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76237.The_Further_Adventures_of_Sherlock_Holmes
The first thing that struck me about this book was the loving care and research that had been made by Richard Lancelyn Green in coming up with this collection of apocryphal Sherlock Holmes stories.
This is not a collection of Sherlockian pastiches in the present sense, because the authors had, most painstakingly, tried to write Sherlock Holmes stories as they were written by Sire Arthur Conan Doyle, and NOT their own stories using the canonical characters.
They are gentle, and on many occasion very much reminiscent of the fact that Sire Arthur had written his stories strictly as per the norms of literary entertainment that was followed & encouraged in late Victorian era.
I read this during a time where anything Sherlock Holmes was basically 5 star material to me. Now, that I'm older, I have found some Holmes stories that weren't horrible, but weren't all that great either. This book, fortunately, was a nice and welcome set of Sherlock stories.4.5 stars
I've never met a Sherlock Holmes story I didn't love.
It's a really great series for anyone into Sherlock Holmes or who likes mystery stories in general - the adaptation is mostly faithful and usually well paced to sustain the tension, the characterisation of Holmes and Watson is a joy and the acting, particularly by Brett, is absolutely superb.
I still think the whole thing is nothing too grand but if you like Sherlock Holmes I doubt you'd regret reading it and a few of the stories are pretty good.
Elementary
Dull as dishwater.
Eleven stories of varying quality - and to be truthful, even the best of them isn't brilliant - written around the period 1920-1950, by authors wishing to "add" to Conan Doyle's detective canon.
Some are little more than mediocre attempts to produce fresh cases for the famous private detective, others attempt to pastiche Holmes' and Watson's characters.
Few go down the whodunnit route - I always feel the actual detection in the Conan Doyle stories could be sharper and more challenging - but nothing here takes it on much.
Well I like any Sherlock Holmes story I have read (so far) and this book is no exception. The stories in this book are true to the spirit of Conan Doyle's hero and very enjoyable. Well written and enjoyable even I think without the Holmes name being mentioned. So much the better for being about and in spirit the estimable of Sherlock Holmes.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
The quality here is very mixed; but there are some stories (particularly in the second half) that so successfully capture the flavour of the original adventures that at times I felt I could be reading lost tales from Conan Doyle's own pen. Even the less successful ones were still enjoyable.
I thoroughly enjoyed The Albino’s Treasure.
The idea of Sherlock Holmes getting caught up in a turf war between rival master villains Fu Manchu and Zenith the Albino could easily have been gimmicky, but this novel works well as a Holmes story in its own right, its crossover elements mostly relegated to the background.
Many Holmes continuations seek to say profound or awkward things about the character and canon, which I generally enjoy but can backfire terribly.
This confines its ambitions to being thoroughly entertaining -- which is, after all, the only thing Conan Doyle's original stories were aiming for -- and this it fulfills admirably.
Really one of the best collections of Sherlock Holmes pastiches I've read. The first story, The Adventure of the First Class Carriage, is the only clunker, and even it isn't bad, just middling. Each of the authors does a remarkably good job recapturing the originals, and though a few of the plots are predictable, others are very tight. The twist at the end of the final story, The Adventure of Hillerman Hall, is a special treat, even though (view spoiler)[the relevant character would have been quite a bit older at the time the story is set (hide spoiler)].
The only non-canon book I've enjoyed is Shadows Over Baker Street, edited by the marvelous John Pelan (who is a helluva nice guy, to boot). On the whole, I am put off by authors' attempts to meddle with others' characters.
First time reader of this author and now i am hooked. This was such a great, easy and creative series. i was hooked after the first page. The characters were easy to fall in love with and follow, along with the story. the author made the mental visions so easy and vivid of the surroundings and the characters actions felt so real.i would highly recommend this author and this series.
The Further Adventures of Sherlock Holmes: After Sir Arthur Conan DoyleGreen, Richard LancelynI have become an addict of these genre inspired books, i find the authors like Richard Green bring a great perspective in insight into the character of Sherlock holmes.
This is a rather entertaining "further adventures" collection not from the pen of Conan Doyle (except Adrian) that is well worth reading, with a rather well known (or is she) client in one of the last adventures.
A real mixed bag of stories featuring Sherlock Holmes. A very good introduction places each story in context.
very interesting.
Great book.
More excellent reading!
Same narrator as the Louise Penny books.
Amazing to think that these were written SO very long ago. Do they stand to the test of time? Damn right they do!! This bloke was a genius.
It was good
Green's introduction to the collection, and the history behind each of the stories is actually more interesting than most of the tales themselves, which can become a little repetitive.
This book is an amazing work of mystery,I've become quite infatuated with Sherlock Holmes and his theory of deductive reasoning.
this book is amazing n best for me
Mildly entertaining
it interesting...lots of mystery..
Sherlock Holmes stories by other authors.
