https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1058074.I_Remember
Perché, dopo la meraviglia di questa scoperta così semplice e facile (tanto che viene subito la voglia di cominciare a scrivere il proprio personale ‘I Remember’), c’è la meraviglia di come Brainard snocciola i suoi ricordi: chiaro, diretto, franco, generoso, intimo, divertente, spiritoso, intelligente, brillante, toccante, profondo, originale, disarmante… E che ritmo, che fluire… sì, c’è musica, c’è danza...
Uno dei più belli che leggerò.Uno per uno, i cosiddetti libri fondamentali della nostra epoca saranno dimenticati, mentre la piccola, semplice gemma di Joe Brainard è destinata a restare.
If there could be an ideal task in creative writing it is this one: write a story or a poem where every sentence begins "I remember" and tell the truth.
The lesson here is simple: the more intimate is your confessions, the more connection they establish, the more power they generate, the more touching they are.This is what Joe Brainard did in 1970 and it still reads fresh.
For my money, though, a very similar kind of concept (yet even more stunningly executed) was done by Édouard Levé some 35 yrs later in his "Autoportrait".
Read them both, be surprised by their deceptive simplicity.
I had an early edition of this book and I imagine this one is the same. Maybe not? Nevertheless it's a classic and it seems to be a writer's favorite. in many ways it reminds me of Raymond Queneau's Writing in Style. It is probably one of the great writing manuals as well as a work of poetry. Prose work to the max. Whatever you call it, this work is a masterpiece.
There is an audio out there which I am unsure still exists of Brainard reading say thirty minutes of I Remember.
I had a dream last night of a friend showing it to me recently, and loving not just the reading but the concept.
I mean, in terms of star-systems I did/do actually find it amazing, but the bitterness in my wanting to write this kind of book without being obvious in imitation, even though Brainard is obscure/whatever, leaves me disjointed.
Each episode is only a few lines long, and by exhibiting each memory free of context, without any gesture towards linear narrative, and completely without subjective hierarchy, Brainard's method comes across as guilelessly radical - even though he does away with narrative structure, I Remember is compulsively readable, emotionally engaging, and weirdly enveloping; I found myself dredging up memorable moments from my own life and free-associating wildly, and it is only through great self-control that I didn't put those thoughts down on paper (lucky for you).
I loved this book when I first read it over thirty years ago (the edition with the yellowy-orange French-looking cover, published by Full Court Press).
I loved it for the glamour of all the references to American brands and customs, which made it seem both real and other-worldly.
I loved the complete unavailability of some of the memories and the way others were not only available but shared.
Looking at it now, after thre decades, I find that I still love it.
pretty much perfect. i don't know why i'm only giving it 4 stars. i guess because i wish it was about 10,000 pages longer.
thanks to David E and others on goodreads, I too am now a fan of Joe Brainard and his wonderful 1975 memoir, recently reissued by Granary Books.Yes, it's as good as they told me it would be.
It carries a cumulative emotional power.Brainard had this wonderful combination of acute observation, innocence, humor.
His memories are both intensely personal and nearly universal.
Some random passages:I remember an algebra teacher who very generously passed me.
I think he truly undersood that algebra, for me, was totally out of the question, so he pretty much ignored me.
He died the next year of cancer.I remember globes.
Joe remembered cinnamon toothpicks, twice!
There's little sense of cohesion on any page (or block of ten pages), making it feel extremely vulnerable.
Unfortunately, it feels more lazy than innovative, as Brainard couldn't be troubled to shape his recollections cogently or into a narrative.
The prose, while competent and so minutely divided that it defies most analysis, isn't particularly winning and does not have the rhythm or heart of poetry many prose poets chase, though it certainly has a human heart behind it.
Fans of innovative fiction or prose poetry in particular may find this more interesting than general readers.
12)I remember a drunk man in a tuxedo in a bar who wanted Ron Padgett and me to go home with him but we said no and he gave us all his money.
25)I remember "Le Metro," (A coffeehouse on Second Avenue that had poetry readings) Paul Blackburn.
34)I remember after people are gone thinking of things I should have said but didn't.
78)I remember noisy candy wrappers when you don't want to make any noise.
112)I remember, at parties, after you've said all you can think of to say to a person - but there you both stand.
122)I remember thinking that "S.O.S." meant something dirty.
Se siente debajo de la superficie de las páginas, cierta orquestación, cierto murmullo de aguas que corre veladamente debajo de la tierra que pisamos en sus palabras.Pero, no deja de transmitirnos esa puerilidad, esa inocencia, que subyace no en los recuerdos, sino en lo que quiere recordar, y cómo nos lo dice.Hoy papá dijo: Brainard es un Rulfo.
Brainard vuelve a la tierra llena de fantasmas que es su memoria, y la reconstruye a su antojo, a sus ganas, aceptando unas cosas, negando otras y pasando por alto muchas más."Me acuerdo" es un libro espléndido, bello, en ocasiones reminiscente a la obra de Mapplethorpe, aquella donde exponía imágenes de flores junto a infantes desnudos.¿Qué puede ser el recuerdo sino eso?
On its face I Remember is nothing more than a seemingly endless series of brief declarative statements starting with the simple words of the title.
Brainard is so forthright, so perceptive, so directly simple and his memories so real, so particular that, as one reviewer put it, "his history coincides with ours." There is no narrative in the sense of beginning-middle-end but the memories pile on top of each other such that you know Brainard and his story maybe better than if he had tried autobiography.
Indeed, every time I read it there is in my mind a parallel series of my own memories rushing in.
p108I remember The Millionaire on TV and how you never got to see his face.I remember "Two hairs past a freckle" when someone asks you what time it is and you don't have a watch.I remember when I was very young a hand-wringer washing machine in our basement and visions of what it could do to your hand if it got caught in it.I remember pink underwear sometimes when something red faded in the wash.I remember sometimes blue underwear.I remember lint all over blue jeans when you forgot and left a Kleenex in your pocket.I remember "panty raids."I remember "Which twin has the Toni!"I remember "Does she or doesn't she?"I remember "There's no business like show business" (the song) and how it always got to me.I remember folding paper into cootie catchers.
I remember that I promised myself I wasn't going to do a concept review of I Remember, and then did 
Brilliantly simple, and adaptable as an exercise for one's own writing or workshops at any level. Smart in its resistance to order, how it insists on remaining strange and wondrous and haphazard. A great book. I hope one day when we colonize space that I can take this to the Moon with me.
Unique and enjoyable. Brought back a flood of memories and inspired me to write my own "I remembers."
I remember reading this book and thinking what a brilliant gimmick and then trying to copy it and finding it is not as easy as that.
Couldn't tell you how it works, but it works.
Wow!! This book is awesome!!! Enter into the head of Joe Brainard and find yourself in his memories! :)
Mi immagino Joe Brainard sul lettino dello psicologo a snocciolare tutti i suoi Mi Ricordo. Lo psicologo prende nota, e scopre che dall’elenco di queste frasi viene fuori un capolavoro incredibile. Telefona a un suo amico che lavora in una casa editrice e...
As I started peeling an orange, every action I was doing in the present became an "I remember" statement in my head-- for at least a half-hour.
Everything I looked at became, I remember, as if it had already happened-- because my brain had been trained to repeat and expect that statement at the beginning of a sentence.I Remember grows on you.
When you find yourself moving your wrist back and fourth, (I remember, with a limp wrist, shaking your hand back and fourth real fast until it feels like jelly.) remembering awkward elevator moments, objects and facts about your childhood, you know that there is a certain quality of nostalgia that grabs at you.
This review pretty much sums up the book for me.
The magic in this work is in its ability to bounce between the mundane/trivial corporeal AND the heartrending massive events that change the structure of who-we-are.
And reading this explodes a kaleidoscope of remembrances from my own past, often things I don't really want to recall.
As someone who has always been forward looking; as someone who always scorns nostalgia; as someone who wants to forget the past; this was a nice slap in the face.
A remembrance that wistful memory is not always trite; that intense memories are not always painful; and that memory as such is not something to throw away.
Joe Brainard puts together a wide compilation of personal, social, cultural, and economic memories across the span of over 100 pages.
It ranges from what fresh cut grass smells like on a Sunday morning to personal experiences that Joe, as a young gay man, experienced finding himself in a world unkind to such life choices.The book is powerful, moving, easy to read, has a sense of familiarity, and can speak across the generations.
I Remember is a book that manages to be miraculously unpretentious and sophisticated.
Using a list of seemingly random memories -- much like a twitter feed (except 1,000,000 x better) -- all of which begin with the words "I remember," Brainard weaves together personal memories and cultural references that are often hilarious and poignant, and are guaranteed to trigger your own memories of the same.
Importantly, he includes his gay experiences/outlook (sometimes frank or "graphic" in the sex department, but never overwrought) and binds these experiences to the larger cultural narrative in ways that are (still) ignored or oppressed, and -- to me anyway -- often feel beyond our collective ability to describe in our current post-AIDS era of grief, denial, and extreme anxiety about gay life/sex.
A short, perfect book.
There are parts of this book that are very personal and incriminating.
Brainard was extremely self aware, almost to a fault.
He was a renowned visual artist, yes, but he was extremely aware of his motives not only as a writer but as a person, which is obvious in his writing.
I'm tired of people saying writers are "honest"- usually that means that the reader simply connected with the tone, narrative, or whatever- but this book is honest in a different (better) way.
Brainard is able to construct meaning from the mundane without sounding trite.
I saw this book recommended by one of my favorite authors, Michael Cunningham (he wrote THE HOURS).
Michael teaches a Creative Writing course at Columbia University and I'm sure he implores his students to read this one.
It is an easy, simple read of "I REMEMBER..." lines of memories from the 1940s and 1950s.
It is a 'must read' for any writer who has writers block as it will spur new ideas into one's head, encouraging one to write their very OWN 'I Remember' lines.
I really enjoyed it, relating and laughing several times--I ended up finishing it in one day as a break from another book.
It is a list of memories that Joe Brainard has collected from throughout his life, in no particular order, about anything and everything.
Some memories made me see back in time to the reality of vanished decades.
Some memories felt like they had been pulled straight from the back of my own mind.
Some memories were TMI.
The wonderful thing about this book is its ability to stimulate the reader's mind to memory.
You read his memories, and you start to remember yourself: things in your life that are the same as in his, things that are different.
All the warmth, humor and good-natured silliness of Brainard's art are here in these "poems"--1-3 sentence reminiscences that meander from his Tulsa childhood to sexual experiences in New York in the mid '60s. Brainard records impressions like a camera, not trying to sort them or make them mean, or bothering much to distinguish "high" from "low." In the process, he mananges to describe an America of a certain time and place more vividly than longer, more macho efforts to tackle 'The American Experience,' and creates an irresistable world where everything's seemingly available to art.
An astonishing little book, so unconventional and so perfect. I'd heard of this book years ago but could never find a copy. Then I found this reprint version at a bookstore across the street (The Paper Hound, for those people in Vancouver who love bookstores).I remember many of the same things, but of course Brainard remembers more and remembers better. So much is packed into each little sentence or paragraph. Definitely leaves you wanting more, but at the same time, makes you feel like you have had enough. That is the miracle of this perfect little strange book.
