https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35068432-i-ll-be-gone-in-the-dark
It’s about a pure monster that should be one of the best known unsolved crime cases in American history, but many people have probably never heard of the Golden State Killer.
He may have also been responsible for a series of break-ins in Visalia a few years earlier, and if so there’s another murder to hang on him there for shooting a man who stopped an intruder from abducting his daughter in the middle of the night from their home.It was Michelle McNamara who branded him the Golden State Killer after she began writing about the case on her blog and in magazine articles.
That summer I hunted the serial killer at night from my daughter’s playroom. For the most part I mimicked the bedtime routine of a normal person. Teeth brushed. Pajamas on. But after my husband and daughter fell asleep, I’d retreat to my makeshift workspace and boot up my laptop, that fifteen-inch-wide hatch of endless possibilities…I rarely moved but I leaped decades with a few keystrokes. Yearbooks. Marriage certificates. Mug shots. I scoured thousands of pages of 1970s-era police files. I po
McNamara would be forever haunted by what she’d later describe as “the specter of that question mark where the killer’s face should be.”  - From Vulture articleShe takes us along with her, introducing readers to three general groups of people, the victims, the professional investigators, and her small band of amateur sleuths.
During her research, McNamara coined the GSK tag for him, the Golden State Killer.Attacks attributed to the GSK – image from the Sacramento County DA’s office by way of the NY TimesMcNamara takes us through not just the clues that accumulated over the years, but methodologies for looking into them.
ETA 4/25/18 in the most holy crap, hopeful, bawling kind of way:  I hope you got him, Michelle. I hope THEY got him. #IllBeGoneInTheDark #MichelleMcNamara #stepintothelight https://t.co/ewq3NyCz56— Patton Oswalt (@pattonoswalt) April 25, 2018 I'm not crying. You're crying.Original Review, 11/16/17: Confession: I'm what you would call a murderino. I listen to My Favorite Murder religiously, I watch the hell out of Investigation Discovery (City Confidential is amazing), and I listen to a few other
McNamara shared so much of herself in this book without overwhelming it, and you really feel her dedication in the text.
In a weird way, I almost felt like I had gained a friend during the book, like I was in the car driving with her or scanning through text-filled databases in the middle of the night, too, and that's a difficult feeling to evoke, especially in this genre.
Likewise, the story focuses on the many of detectives (both law enforcement and less official sleuths) who worked the case and the victims as much as it does the killer.
A very enjoyable read!TW: graphic depictions of rape/assault/murderThough true crime is a great field of interest to me, I haven't read many books of this variety.
The order of them became muddled as I delved deeper into the book, but it's possibly not due to the writing itself but factors of my personal experience, such as choosing to listen to the audiobook version or my lack of knowledge of true crime novels in general.
This books is full of detail and great value towards closing this case.
It was a pleasure to listen to this following the capture of Joseph Deangelo, and it's excruciating to think that Michelle was so close to unveiling one of the most notorious serial rapists and murderers in US history.
If you haven't managed to snag this one yet, I highly recommend listening to the audiobook if that's your thing; all the narrators were beyond excellent and audible has all the pdf downloads available to view alongside while listening.
Highly recommended for fans of true crime and those looking to get a glimpse not only into the EAR, but also Michelle's personal life and struggles as well.
This book reminded me of how taut the atmosphere was in those days, as the author details her hunt for a prolific serial rapist, which eventually escalated to murder, who went on a virtually unchecked rape and murder spree in California in the seventies.
Michelle was a true crime journalist, who started the website, ‘TrueCrimeDiary.com, as this case became an obsession with her.
Michelle's private life musings, added a more personal touch, something that might not always come off so well in the true crime arena, but I think the author was attempting to share with readers how her obsession and desire to see the case solved influenced and bled over into her personal life, taking up her every waking thought.
what will happen?fulfilling book riot's 2018 read harder challenge task #2: A book of true crimeno extry points this time.there’s almost no point in my writing a content-based review of this book - i’m late to the party and better folks than me have already admirably and exhaustively covered both what the book is about and the unusual circumstances occurring beyond its covers - michelle mcnamara’s sudden death two years before the book’s publication, and the arrest of the golden state killer two months after it hit shelves.
After spending enough hours with them, I’ve noticed a few things about detectives.
What truly frightened her and kept her awake at night was the fact that the Golden State Killer has gotten away with his 10 year reign of terror and is possibly blending into society as someone's husband or dad now.Yes, McNamara was obsessed with her search for the monster.
She rightfully felt until the day she died that she was on the verge of identifying the killer, probably through an Ancestry.com like site.
It is a terrifying book, yet full of compassion and understanding for the victims.
5, well I'll be sleeping with a baseball bat forever now stars!!!🎶Everyday I'm feeling fine,Drinking wine,Forever reading true crime🎶This starts with an introduction by juggernaut thriller author Gillian Flynn and ends with a heartbreaking and beautiful epilogue by McNamara's husband and esteemed actor Patton Oswalt.
I just want bracelets on his wrists and a cell door slamming behind him.”It is certainly very interesting having read this book after DeAngelo has now been caught and knowing how easy it would've been for him to just slip through the cracks and live the rest of his life a free man.
Since its publication earlier this year, some have asked whether Michelle McNamara's utterly engrossing true crime book,  I'll Be Gone in the Dark , would be as popular if McNamara, the wife of comedian and actor Patton Oswalt, hadn't died suddenly while writing the book in 2016. While that tragedy certainly raised the book's profile, the fact is, this is a tremendously well-written and compelling book, worthy of every bit of acclaim it's gotten. It's just sad McNamara isn't around to appreciate
It's just sad McNamara isn't around to appreciate the response to her years of hard work."Violent men unknown to me have occupied my mind all my adult life—long before 2007, when I first learned of the offender I would eventually dub the Golden State Killer.
There was a reason that police detectives were willing to talk with her and rehash the crimes they couldn't solve—because they knew she got them.In his blurb for the book, Stephen King said it best: "What readers need to know—what makes this book so special—is that it deals with two obsessions, one light and one dark.
The Golden State Killer is the dark half; Michelle McNamara is the light half.
UPDATE: An arrest has been made, 72 year old Joseph James DeAngelo a former police officer.This book is easily one of the best True Crimes books I have ever read.
Michelle spent nearly a decade intricately researching and playing amateur detective trying to weave together 40 years of evidence in an herculean effort to discover the true identity of The Golden State killer.
I hope he's caught not just because of the vile crimes he's committed but as tribute to the life of Michelle McNamara.A Must Read!
2018 Around The Year In 52 Books: A book rated 5 Stars by at least 1 friend.2018 Popsugar Reading Challenge: True Crime.
One would have had to have been in a news blackout, at least here in the states, to have not heard about the long overdue capture of the rapist and murderer, called the Golden State killer.
It was part of a sisters read and it helped, talking to oyhers, able to share our thoughts.It is terrible that after sll her work, Michelle died, way to young, before she saw this book published, nor the man who had been here obsession so long captured.
Her husband narrates the end of the sufio, talking abbout his wife, and her work.
I've been waiting for this book for a long time, having been a fan of McNamara's True Crime Diary blog (http://www.truecrimediary.com).
But what makes it so special is how it becomes this living testament to the drive, strength and power of its author, a portrait of how her ample mind operated, and how her heart interpreted.
And for all of us who loved true crime from a similarly young age and for whom the fascination has never left, it feels like a lovesong from a fellow pilgrim.Don't miss it.
This one didn’t quite do it for me. I found the story interesting because I knew absolutely nothing about this killer that got away (not a spoiler). The development of the methodologies to apprehend criminals was fascinating and many of the terms are commonplace today. It’s an uneven book and I found myself mentally re-writing sentences for clarity. The messy sentences (in places) may be the result of piecing together a book from the deceased author’s notes and trying to retain her voice. It’s worth reading if you are a fan of true crime.
I was very wary of reading this book, because it just sounded so, so creepy and when I bought it, the killer had not yet been caught.
Yet when he was recently, after so many years, I felt compelled to know the background and read the book.
This story is so disturbing, I could not get it out of my head and I could definitely not read it at night.
The writing is excellent and the fact that the killer has actually been caught feels like a stunning ending to this horrible story.
I loved this book.” -Stephen KingHad Michelle McNamara lived, I think she would have been proud of how well this book has been received, but I think she would have been even more moved to see that the man, Joseph James DeAngelo, she named "The Golden State killer" has been arrested and being charged for his heinous crimes.
Michelle interviewed various detectives working diligently to solve the crimes, she read police reports, interviewed victims and their family members, she devoted countless hours to research, traveling to various locations, collecting box after box of reports.
As is often the case, some of the content matter may be difficult for some, so proceed with caution if you are sensitive.Click on this next part only if you have finished the book and done some follow-up research:(view spoiler)[Shortly after finishing and discovering at the time of publication the killer still hadn’t been caught, I had to jump online and do some searching.
(I will leave you to your own web search if you are interested in the details) What I hope they do is either some follow up chapters or a whole new book that takes the evidence that McNamara tracked down over the years and compares it against the person found to be the killer.
I found this book completely fascinating, and as someone who has read a lot of true crime and studied forensic psychology, I really enjoyed it!I think McNamara does a brilliant job at describing her own obsession with the case and the lengths that people go to when researching, whether this be officer's on the case officially or people at home interested in the case.
I liked learning about geographical profiling and learning of all the different theories purported by researcher's and investigator's alike (for example, the killer using a plane).While I loved this book, I really wish that Michelle McNamara was alive today to see how greatly received her work has been and how it has sparked a new generation of investigators into crime.
I don’t think McNamara’s writing is particularly brilliant unless you are interested in what type of clothing and music were popular at the time of a crime rather than details of the cases (not to mention the fact that she only wrote half of it before she died, making it EXTREMELY choppy); the timeline itself is 100% disjointed and hops from past to future to past again without rhyme or reason; despite the “EAR” or “ONS” or “EAR/ONS” being responsible for 50+ crimes hardly any are covered in this book; and last, but certainly not least, McNamara doesn’t seem to have had too much insight into the case at all, but rather an obsession/borderline addiction where conjecture rules and fellow couch commandos are considered experts (if you’ve ever been on a site like Websleuths or the like, you’ll know the exact opposite is true).
Reviews of this book were terrific from the get go - once available for readers....yet, my husband said....”don’t do it”.
“Cherry”, by Nico Walker, might be the new ‘it’ popular book — ( which I haven’t read), leaving the doorway open for old news of “I’ll Be Gone in the Dark”.
The writing WAS outstanding - as readers have said - and learning about the author - Michelle McNamara’s and her family were things I didn’t know anything about - other than she died in her sleep before finishing this book.
Lastly, many are clamouring for the police to recognize McNamara publicly and her book as the true solvers of the mystery and I have to say " Did y'all not read the book?" The author clearly implies that all she cared about is the Golden State Killer  being caught and that it didn't matter who in the end solved it.Overall, this was perhaps one of my favorite audios of 2018 and certainly it has earned a spot on one of my all time favorites list.
Michelle McNamara was a renowned true crime writer who ran a popular blog dedicated to cold cases.
The unfinished manuscript was published posthumously as I’ll Be Gone in the Dark in February 2018, some two years after McNamara’s death.
As it is, it is still very good, and demonstrates, as Capote did with In Cold Blood, that the true crime genre does not have to limit itself to the traditional murder mystery format.I’ll Be Gone in the Dark is not structured chronologically.
So, while I definitely recommend I’ll Be Gone in the Dark, it is also worth making time for a book like Ghettoside or The Corner).
And, I believe, it has enough details that, if someone who reads this book knew that guy, he will be brought to justice at last.He pointed a knife at her and issued a chilling warning: "Make one move and you'll be silent forever and I'll be gone in the dark." pg 61Gillian Flynn writes a stellar introduction: "I've always thought the least appreciated aspect of a great true crime writer is humanity.
Michelle McNamara was an investigative journalist who created and operated the web site, True Crime Diary, where true crime aficionados discussed cold cases, and were dogged in their determination to pursue criminals.But one case evaded investigators and police for decades: the rapist turned killer, dubbed The Golden State Killer (GSK) by Michelle.
This was the case that haunted Michelle McNamara, the one that interrupted family gatherings and holidays, the one that kept her up until the wee hours of the morning pursuing leads.
The brutality of the GSK is the stuff of nightmares but Michelle McNamara wrote with sensitivity, avoiding some of the grisly details out of respect for the victims and their families.
As I read through the timeline of his crimes and ways in which he tortured and terrified his victims, I had a few restless nights.Coming into contact with someone like him is my worst nightmare.
She brought true crime writing to another level and I am truly devastated that we will never get another true crime novel from her, she really would have changed the entire game.I know the investigative team have yet to attribute any of the credit of his identification and capture to McNamara's work, but if you've read the book and if you have any semblance of the spotlight that she focused on this lesser-known serial rapist/murderer, then you know that is bullshit.
This book reads as if a true crime book and a memoir had a baby.It works though and it's great!Damn, I wish Michelle McNamara had lived long enough to see Detective Paul Holes arrest the Golden State Killer aka the East Area Rapist (EAR).
All the facts and details of this case was laid out well but McNamara also had this amazing ability to bring heart into this book with all of the interviews with the victims, detectives and people involved with catching Joseph James DeAngelo, the EAR.McNamara also brought humor and some levity into this book when describing her life with husband Patton Oswalt and her obsession with catching the EAR.Working as a personal crimes volunteer for the Seattle Police Department for 2 years, I felt like McNamara nailed it with what happens to victims.
Thanks to her team of fellow investigators and editors, as well as her husband, her remaining notes were pieced together to finish and publish the book.McNamara's utter and complete devotion to her subject shines strongly throughout the book.
It's difficult--no, impossible--to piece together a linear narrative of the EAR-ONS' crimes, which to me is crucial for understanding how the investigation unfolded.
This sparse exploration of individual instances of the EAR-ONS crimes, coupled with a timeline that jumps back and forth, makes it very difficult to follow along with the book's overall narrative structure.
***Update 4/26/2018: the monster has been unmasked "The truth was, I was jittery from sugar, hunger, and spending too much time alone in the dark absorbing a fifty-chapter horror story narrated in the kind of dead voice used by desk clerks at the DMV." ~Michelle McNamara, I'll Be Gone in the Dark  I probably would have been drawn to this book eventually no matter what. Well-written true crime that unfolds like the best of a police procedural with all the markers of a gripping horror suspense nov
Before picking up this book I had never heard of the East Area Rapist - Original Night Stalker (EAR/ONS) (renamed the Golden State Killer by Michelle), yet he is one of the most prolific serial offenders in US history (50 known sexual assaults and at least 10 murders) and who remains at large.
In her quest to finally unmask the Golden State Killer's true identity once and for all, McNamara shows the heart-wrenching toll on all parties who share in this consuming need to know -- the victims families of course -- but also the retired detectives who carried the burden for decades and those who were forced to take that burden to the grave with them.
FIVE THINGS I LIKED ABOUT I’LL BE GONE IN THE DARK (AND FIVE THINGS I DIDN’T)By now, most everyone knows that police have, decades after he killed more than a dozen people and raped more than 50, found and arrested the alleged Golden State Killer, the subject of this true crime book by Michelle McNamara.It’s a phenomenal story, and I’m sure there will be an expanded edition* when the book comes out in paperback.
(It’s also currently being made into an HBO documentary.) The sad thing is, McNamara never got to hear about it; indeed, she didn’t even get to finish this book.
I’m so glad I read this book knowing that Michelle McNamara’s efforts were not wasted and that the killer is now safely behind bars.
At first it was hard to wrap my head around Michelle’s level of obsessiveness with the case but as I read further and further I was equally as fascinated, madly googling all the places and looking up the crime scenes and victims photos, my own interest in the case kept growing at an alarming rate that I started to understand a little better Michelle’s head space and her commitment to getting answers, it’s almost as if her enthusiasm was infectious!
I’m in awe and absolutely amazed at the level of dedication and patience needed to sift through so much content to be able to get a book like this written let alone published.
