https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/243399.Miss_Pym_Disposes
Written in 1946, I did notice rather more dated references in contrast to some of Agatha Christie’s 1930 novels but I was surprised how relevant some of the issues raised still remain.The story begins when a legacy leaves French teacher, Miss Lucy Pym, in a comfortable position to become a lady of leisure and sees her set her mind to writing a treatise of psychology, which becomes an unexpected bestseller.
Not that Miss Pym feels she has much to offer the students of Leys Physical Training College, a community that rouses at 5:30 a.m. and moves seamlessly through a series of exhaustive physical pursuits and works the Seniors into a heightened state of anxiety in the week of Final Examinations and the Demonstration.
There are also references to actors and acting, something with which Tey, who also wrote plays using the name Gordon Daviot, was very familiar.In reading this novel I learned a lot about women's physical training colleges in England in the early part of the 20th century.
A novel which features apparently criminal behaviour set in a women's college and having as its central characters a number of students and teachers invites comparison with Dorothy L Sayers'Gaudy Night.
By this point in my reread of Josephine Tey it's more than clear that she did not write ordinary books.
Along with Miss Pym we meet the inmates of the Leys school for young women, and seeing through her eyes there are perhaps two students who are less than lovely, and one instructor; everyone else is charming, and indispensable.
It's a different sort of suspense than is often found in the genre – rather than being kept waiting to find out whodunnit or whether this one will escape the murderer or that one escape the law, here it is a wait to see which of these people I've quickly come to like will a) die and b) be responsible.
Wow, just wow!
I thought Daughter of Time was the masterpiece.
Now I'm not so sure.
What a loss that this incredible wit and writer of the most subtle social psychology aware mystery crossover was gone so quickly.
Girls and young women being full humans with barely any love interest in the mix at all.
Tey was 80 years ahead of her own time.
It was very good when I was almost 30, better when I was just past 50 and great now.
And I understand Henrietta's original job offer decision IMMENSELY better now too.
The girls are worth the patience.
3.5 Stars
Nominalno, ovo je krimić, ali zločin se desi tek negde na tri četvrtine knjige i odmah je jasno (čitaocima, ne pripovedačici) ko je počinilac - ali ne zbog nekakvih gusto posejanih nagoveštaja nego zbog motivacije likova koja je vrlo brižljivo razrađena u prethodne tri četvrtine teksta.U međuvremenu možemo da uživamo u:a) retko zabavnoj junakinji - gđica Pim je usedelica koja je bukvalno slučajno napisala bestseler iz oblasti popularne psihologije, retko duhovita (često na svoj račun), oštrog oka za detalje, ali mnogo fleksibilnija i tolerantnija nego npr.
godine) stravičnim posledicama,d) engleštini koja varira od onog simpatičnog ponošenja domaćom kuhinjom (domaćom.
kuhinjom.
According to the cover of the book "Josephine Tey is one of the best known and best loved of all crime writers." She is "the classic mystery writer." Yet I had never heard of her or her books before this recommendation, and by halfway through the book I was still waiting for a crime to happen and the biggest mystery to me was why I was still reading.I think your impression of any book you read has a lot to do with your expectations ahead of ever turning that first page.
The psychological study is minute, the humour sharp and quotable, the characters detached yet devatastingly human.
I don't know what to call this insofar as this is as much a character study of various female students in the forties as it is a mystery novel that advocates applied psychology and body language reading to solve crimes.
It is a good whodunnit (though I'd guessed the final twist, it was still quite smart) but it's not its primary purpose, its primary purpose is to look at the consequences of murder on people's lives.
Sayers' Gaudy Night is a masterpiece and Miss Pym Disposes is a Really Good Book.
I would not compare this work with "Gaudy Night." Other than the fact that it takes place in a school, there is no comparison, and even the school setting is not the same.
Even if it were not necessary to spend the first two-thirds of the book developing the characters and their relationships in order to provide an adequate motive for the murder, the exploration of those characters and relationships would be worth the time, as would the introduction we get to another place and time.
If this had been the first book I'de ever read, by Josephine Tey, I'd never had read another one.
The reader should be aware this is not representative of her usual work.It was, in terms of language, well written, although missing some of Tey's usually faultless description.
The characters were very well drawn, one of Tey's greatest strengths.
Editors failed Tey in allowing this one to pass.
For a whodunnit it takes FOREVER to get to the crime.
And I mean, forever.
Very disappointing readOne can't help wondering if it would have been better written as a play.
Sorry Miss Tey: Could Do Better.

This is not so much a murder mystery than a 'psychological' study of the inhabitants of a women's Phys.
Ed. college in post war Britain by Miss Pym, a visiting author of a successful pop psychology book.
This is definitely not a page turner, although there is a nice twist at the very end which did surprise me.The writing itself probably deserves more than the three stars I've allotted it but I found the detail of the lives of these young women and teachers excessive to the point of being, at times, boring and the leisurely pace of the novel frustrating.
This cozy mystery doesn't really get going till three fourths into the book. The ending will knock you out of the boat. I finished this two days ago and am still recovering.
Witty, sharp, and very well-written.
Tey is less interested in writing a mystery novel than in using the conventions of the mystery novel to examine time, place, and character.
How much do we really know about other people?
Is it possible to read character on the face and in the body?
And where are we to find first causes?
The attempt to assign responsibility and to understand the causation of human behaviour is fruitless; in this story, Miss Pym is able to to trace back the cause of what happens to at least six different people, including herself.
Reseña completa en Fábulas estelares.La señorita Pym y sus disposiciones han resultado ser una auténtica sorpresa. Me esperaba una novela al uso a lo Agatha Christie y al final ha sido todo muy psicológico, gimnástico y entrañable.
The “fatal accident” doesn’t occur until well into the last half of the book, and is not hard for the reader to see through.
This is sedately paced and mildly amusing, and it notably has an almost entirely female cast.According to the brief bio of Tey, also on the cover, she “worked as a physical trainer before publishing her first novel in 1929”.
That apparently inspired the setting for this book: Miss Pym is a newly successful author who visits a women’s “physical training college”, where vigorous young women are practicing everything from ballet to cricket to anatomy.
Miss Pym lingers on campus, ensconced in an unassuming dorm room where she is surrounded with students and their daily drama.
As with the other non-detective Teys, this isn't really a classic mystery.
The psychological portraits are drawn beforehand, and they are what is interesting about this novel.
They are also fairly uneventful, and if psychological portraits aren't your thing, you'll be bored.
I like Tey's writing, she's witty and clear and I wasn't bored reading her.
But there is an unbelievable amount of casual and unnecessary racism here, which makes for uncomfortable reading for a person from the 21st century, and it is more than what I'd seen in her other writing, which is why I was surprised.
Massive ending spoilers and all book discussion (view spoiler)[So Innes took the blame for Beau murdering Rouse just super casually.
And the whole thing where Rouse is apparently hated by EVERY SINGLE PERSON except the principal and Innes is loved by EVERY SINGLE PERSON except the principal is frustrating.
The whole thing where Henrietta is gonna give Rouse the most amazing possible job result even after being given good reason to believe Rouse is cheating in tests (although not being given evidence because for some reason Miss Pym *immediately disposes (heh) of this evidence when she finds it!) and when she's always at the lower end of the test results and bad at theory is super frustrating.
When the crime does take place, it is almost obscure and you know the true murderer even before it is revealed in the last page of the book.I though loved the characters and would have liked to see more of The Nut Tart and her Rick and the theater actor Teddy, he was a perfect foil to serious plot.I have learnt two things about the writer so far from reading two of her books: she does believe in face-reading a great deal and was aware that it is considered less intellectual and that she believe passionately in innocence of Richard III in the alleged crime of murder of the princes in the tower.
In the end, the character of Miss Pym, as well as the girls, is tested.The charm of the setting and characters would have made this story an instant favourite, but I also deeply enjoyed the prolonged, relaxed lead-up to the crime; we are immersed in the world of the girls’ studies and career concerns so that when the curiously unlikable and duplicitous Rouse is given the opportunity of a prestigious teaching post over the more natural choice of the brilliant Innes, the impact is properly felt by the reader as much as by their confused and outraged peers.It’s a lovely work of crime fiction despite the unchallenging plot, with a sort of frothy girl-school good nature and underlying human nature that make an interesting mix, and Tey’s writing style is delightful.
A small masterpiece of a mystery,  Miss Pym Disposes is unconventional in several ways.
Setting of the scene, meticulous and entrancing in both the splendid cast of characters and the locale, takes most of book, while the crime and its resolution occurs in last quarter.
I certainly did.Many mystery books disappoint by disingenuously ignoring obvious clues.
The clues are subtly placed in the wrenching human drama that  Josephine Tey develops as a prelude to the crime.
Miss Pym, who "could never see less than three sides to any question," is left to disentangle some challenging moral dilemmas, which she does with characteristic grace.
Miss Pym Disposes is not a conventional murder mystery, no matter what the blurbs tell you.
Miss Pym, the surprise successful author of a pop psychology book goes to Ley's school at the request of her school-friend Henrietta, where she is to guest lecture the young women.
Interestingly, murder comes late in the book and is probably the least interesting thing about it.
Tey's characterizations and her depictions of the young women (through Miss Pym's eyes) and their daily lives are sharp-eyed and precise and true.
Miss Pym's psychological musings are the cherry on top.
I took this book to England with me and it was the perfect choice!
The setting is a girls' school in a British small village, much like the ones I experienced.
Miss Pym is a charming character that I used to follow faithfully, then forgot about.
I like Tey's stories because they hold a mystery, but you don't realize what the mystery is until you have met and known all the characters.
I think this book's main event didn't occur until 2/3rds into it.
Then Miss Pym defies the logical denouement for another surprise.
If you love British characters and well written mysteries, you will love this one.
Published in 1946, Miss Pym Disposes isn't a conventional murder mystery.
I read The Daughter of Time years ago; I was expecting something like it in this book.
Miss Pym is a former high school teacher turned best-selling author of a pop psychology book visiting an old friend who is now the principal of a women's physical training college.
Miss Pym becomes interested in the lives and personalities of the college students and their teachers and, when a death occurs, reluctantly is involved in the circumstances surrounding the event.
Miss Pym sets off at the end of the book ready to write another book, this time about face-reading.
Hacía mucho que no leía un libro literalmente en un día. No es que el misterio me atrapase tanto que no pudiera dejarlo, de hecho todo lo que ocurre es bastante previsible, sino que la historia está contada de forma tan amena y la ambientación tan bien hecha que te metes de lleno en el libro y te cuesta salir de él. Si además de eso te gustan especialmente las historias british de detectives y los internados ingleses seguro que no podrás apartar los ojos de las páginas.
It's not a thrilling subject (and I certainly wouldn't think to write a book about it), but Josephine Tey succeeds in writing an interesting, psychological portrait of the ins and outs of life at an English training college.
In addition, she follows the old writer's adage to "write what you know" for she herself attended a women's Physical Training CollegeI don't think this novel is for everyone--and if you pick it up expecting a hard-boiled--or even soft-boiled--mystery, you will be disappointed.
But, if you approach this novel as a English comedy of manners--not a mystery--it will not disappoint.
An ordinary woman who became famous by writing a scathing critique of current psychological mumbo-jumbo which was only discovered by accident, when we meet her she has somehow become convinced that makes her an expert in psychology.
This is why I still read mysteries - because at their best they show you ordinary people dropped into unusual situations, and I love watching the results.
Tey has captured beautifully the off-balanced feeling of being young and about to launch into the "real world".
The very real lack of proportion that the young struggle with and that's only balanced by time or really great suffering.
For those who have missed my other reviews of the amazing Josephine Tey I will once again sing the praises of this outstanding writer-not just mystery writer but writer writer.   is set in a somewhat different milieu than Tey's usual country estate/small English town. It takes place in the world of academia and begins as an ordinary misdeed that blooms into murder.Tey is a master at taking simple plot and handling them with brilliant ease that transforms them into outstanding, absorbing mystery
For those who have missed my other reviews of the amazing Josephine Tey I will once again sing the praises of this outstanding writer-not just mystery writer but writer writer.
is set in a somewhat different milieu than Tey's usual country estate/small English town.
It takes place in the world of academia and begins as an ordinary misdeed that blooms into murder.Tey is a master at taking simple plot and handling them with brilliant ease that transforms them into outstanding, absorbing mystery novels of the highest rank.Recommended: as usual, both for those who enjoy well-written British cozies or fabulous writing and absorbing stories.
Really 4.5 stars.In some ways it reminded me of Dorothy Sayers "Gaudy Night" in the setting.
Although quite a different book where it is not towards the latter part where the mystery unfolds and becomes more of a mystery novel.
With a writer of this talent it is amazing that a mystery book could be like this and you just hung on the story of the various observations through the eyes of Miss Pym. Quite amusing and parts that had me laugh out loud while also dealing with serious moral matters.The ending quite surprised me in in some ways, but really perfect in how it was all set up.
An odd book. I'd never read anything by Josephine Tey and thought I should. It takes place in a training college for female gym teachers, for a start. That's odd, and so is the fact that the chief protagonist is the author of a book who goes to visit the college and stays on for a couple of weeks because she likes the girl students. Just saying. Nothing about this book was convincing. I may try something else by her because she must have developed her very good reputation for some good books, surely?
