https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/96642.Rocket_Boys
Only a certain type of person--- a special combination of musicianship, athleticism and geekiness, if you will--- will truly comprehend the depth of connection I felt after reading Homer's elation at having Dorothy Plunk drift off to sleep on his shoulder while the bus plowed through West Virginia backcountry.
and somehow, for it, the pay off in the end is greater--- i was heartbroken to read the epilogue about dorothy, that she was even the first part of it at all.homer, i really liked you, man.
because i feel like we're friends, and it's never too late for a rocket scientist (you charmer!) ...
What a great story of growing up, coping with difficulties, ambition, family disappointments, friends, teachers; in short, the things that made Homer Hickam, Jr. the man he is today.There was a lot of nostalgia in this book for me.
We grew up just fine.Homer and the Rocket Boys had that kind of freedom.
The hard work and persistence of those boys is awe-inspiring to me.
I just hope a few of them can take inspiration from the themes of hard work and never say die attitude on these pages.
A big thanks to Homer Hickam, Jr. for sharing his story and his town with us.
The story of Homer Hickam who while growing up in now extinct Coalwood, West Virginia, forms a group of higher reaching miner's son's who become proficient backyard rocket launchers and provide much needed hope to the entire town. If you're of an age to remember Sputnik and the great arms race and enjoy a soundtrack of songs from the early 1960's you will most likely be a fan of this endearing coming of age tale which was the basis of the film October Sky. Book 4.5 stars. Epilogue 5 stars.
Coalwood held quite a childhood.
The strong connections of shared culture and identity of work.
The gossip, the dust, the pattern of days- this book takes you there.And it also took me back to my own.
More limestone than coal- but ever present.This is the second reading for about 1/2 of this book.
Years ago I read the first half and never finished it.
Reading time was so much rarer then.
As it was and felt.As are the dangers and excursions and wild freedom of childhood and adolescent roaming.
Culture was treacherous but it hadn't lost its anchors.
Having recently read and enjoyed Carrying Albert Home: The Somewhat True Story of A Man, His Wife, and Her Alligator, I decided to go back and read the first book by West Virginia coal miner’s kid turned rocket scientist and best-selling author Homer Hickam.
Rocket Boys, perhaps best known as the book that inspired the movie October Sky, is a heart-warming coming-of-age memoir about a group of boys who dreamt of the future in a town that had very little future to dream about.
*1 Star - The only thing that would improve this book is a good bonfire.
His mother wanted to ensure he got out of the town and encouraged him to build rockets as a means of proving to his father that he was smart enough to go to college.This book inspired the movie October Sky which has long been a favourite feel good movie of mine.
While the book was about that too, it was also about a lifestyle in which children where given much greater freedoms and responsibilities.When Hickam and his buddies decided to build a rocket they went to the corner store and bought explosive chemicals in order to make it happen.
Just like the town folk of Coalwood, West Virginia, in Hickman’s memoir – October Sky (Rocket Boys) - that gathered to watch, I was mouth-open, dumbstruck-awed!
Equally so, I was impressed with Hickman’s memoir – a time capsule of sorts that encompasses: rocketry, the race to space; cold-war-era fears and feats; coal mining; family dynamics; friendship; teenage wows and woes coming-of-age in the nineteen-fifties.
And for the most part, I found that Hickman’s inclusion of intimate details surrounding his personal life, music, school, friendships, parent-son complexities, love quests, cars, and social endeavors gave warmth, humor, era insight, and humanistic value to his memoir.
Loved it! The sequels are not as good as he milks the story for more and more books, but the original is fantastic. I've read this three or four times and bought the movie (October Sky). This is a great book about coming of age and relationships and meeting your goals and is great for all kids.
Interesting that "October Sky" (the name of the movie) is an anagram of "Rocket Boys" (the name of the book - the original name anyway).Although I was a teenager more than a decade later than Hickam was, some of the things he wrote about hit close to home.
We did not achieve Hickam's level or come anywhere near his scientific approach, but nevertheless remembering these things made me feel a connection to his tale.
I think everyone can empathize with a quest for intellectual independence.One thing that struck me was how well Hickam constructed, or perhaps experienced, parallels to what the boys are doing with their rockets.
Quick and light. Enjoyable read. Nothing heavy about this one.
Read with child #2 for her 9th grade honors English Summer assignment. Actually really enjoyed. Science was a bit above me, but it wasn't too tedious. Got to have a talk with said child #2 about the brain and hormones of the average teenage boy. Fun. Have hopes for her teacher, this book was a great choice. Lot's of great "if you want to learn it or earn it, you can if you work for it" moments without that being the obvious message. Kindle borrow
a modern coming-of-age classicreview to come shortly.....
This book was not my favorite.
This isn’t my favorite genre of books anyways, but one of my best friends recommended it to me, so I though I would give it a try.
The book is super long- about 430 pages!
I ended up skimming a majority of it.
There were some inappropriate parts, as well as a LOT of swearing- like several times per chapter.
This man is incredible though!
His story is so inspiring!
Even though everyone in his town worked in the mines, he defied the odds to build rockets and other amazing things!
I just finished reading this wonderful memoir of six boys growing up in a dead-end coal-mining town in West Virginia. The writing is lyrical and wholesome, yet quietly incisive, similar to Harper Lee's To Kill a Mockingbird. Hickam interweaves several stories with incredible skill, evoking the dreams and sorrows of teenage boys, recalling the nascent years of the space race, describing the hardships of living in southern West Virginia when coal was king. I highly recommend it.
Noticed that one of my Goodread friends is reading this and realized I had never posted it on my list. One of the best I have read largely because I enjoy coming of age stories and really identify with the time period.
this book was so good and I love it a lot okay.When I was in seventh grade and it was in that awkward week before exams and summer, my teachers would put on movies to distract the armies of twelve year olds contained within four walls.
In honor of my years-old love for the story of Homer & co, I decided to purchase a copy of  Rocket Boys from the gift shop of that mine.
I love this book and have already recommended it to several others. I laughed and cried and learned a lot.
When in Wales recently I finished reading October Sky by Homer H Hickam, which seemed to have a certain synchronicity for me at that moment in time.
The book is set in Coalwood, West Virginia, a long way from Aberdare in the valleys of South Wales where I spent my earliest years and where its unmissable cemetery is the final resting place for generations of my ancestors.
However, October Sky is also about the young Homer's fascination with rockets and his boyish indignation at the Russians who are at that time (Sputnik, 1957) winning the Space Race.
He likes to build rockets his dad doesn't want him to but his mom is ok with it as long as he does not blow himself up.
He starts building his rockets with his friends Roy Lee, Sherman, O'Dell, and Quentin.
They start trying out the formulas for the rocker fuel.
Then they start building the parts with Sonny's dad's worker friend Mr. Van Dyke.
Then something goes wrong in the coal mine and Mr. Van Dyke is dead and Sonny's dad is hurt really bad they try to stay strong as a family together and hopefully they will get threw all of it.
Homer Hickam recounts how he and his classmates, inspired by the launch of Sputnick, taught themselves (with a little help from some key adults) how to build rockets in the late 1950s.
Hickam proves himself a more than capable storyteller, mixing equal parts nostalgia, humor, and teenage angst as he tells his story, including a warts-and-all look at his hometown and the coal company which gave it life.
The result is a finely crafted tale of heartbreak and consternation, despair and, ultimately, triumph.His relationship with his parents was compelling in its complexity, and I appreciated the honest look at himself, his strengths and foibles, as he progressed through his journey.A first rate book.
If you love to read about someones life that is really boring, the person is lame and very selfish. There are tons of science related things(that the normal person doesn't care about) and it's story line needs to be flushed down the toilet. And it would have been slightly decent if there was romance. (I know that there was a little bit, but it was only four lines and no detail so I didn't count it.) So if you are some one who likes those kind of books then you are going to love "October Sky."
I thoroughly enjoyed this book. I love timepieces, and the West Virginia coal town was a lovely setting, good and bad. Reminded me of how much Steinbeck integrated Salinas Valley commonly in his stories. I also liked Hickham's tendency to go on tangents that didn't move the story along - details about people in Coalwood just for the sake of it. I tend to talk/write that way. Although it's frowned upon a lot, I just love as much detail as possible
This book was certainly entertaining and emotional. Sonny Hickam's story is certainly a touching one, and space and science enthusiasts will enjoy this book to no end. But, for all you tearjerker lovers, there were many parts where I almost cried. The only reason I gave this book four stars was because of some confusing parts in the story.
I'm probably a sucker for this book because I've had a challenging relationship with my father and because I've been passionate about space exploration for much of my life. If you've had one or both of these situations happen to you, this book and the movie upon which it was based (October Sky) will move you. Go forth and read.
A wonderful, coming of age story of Homer Hickam and his Big Creek Missile Agency friends. I found myself captivated by his experiences, point of view and the descriptive way he captured so many youthhood relationships, from his father to his beloved cat and so many others in between. This novel was both touching and relatable, a fantastic read.
Một cuốn hay mà ít người biết (list bạn bè gần trăm người mà mới có một người đọc cuốn này).Thấy tội quá nên bới lên cho ai hứng thú thì đọc thử.
About ten chapters later, I realized I could not have been more wrong.
It is close to perfection as a memoir; writing so good that you don't even notice it; a great story; a lot of depth of interpersonal relationships; extremely appealing characters; a difficult father-son relationship with a believable and satisfying resolution; a teacher who believes in her students and stands by them at all costs.
It is a MUST-READ!PS - The movie based on the book is called October Sky. It's not bad, but it misses a lot of the undercurrents that make the book so great.
As much as I liked the movie, the book actually made the boys of Coalwood seem even more remarkable.
As is often the case with nonfiction books that are turned into movies, it was refreshing to remove the over-dramatization and see what actually happened (or at least Sonny's version of it) in the hills of West Virginia.I waited to write my review until after watching the movie again, which only made me reflect more positively on the book.
In all aspects of the October Sky/Rocket Boys story...
To see that some aspects of the story were actually MORE dramatic in real life...
I personally enjoy reading memoirs because it's not an autobiography that's like "hey here's some general stuff about me" but rather a personal interpretation of the most important time of a person's life.
That's the vibe I got from October Sky. I can imagine Homer Hickam sitting somewhere trying to come up with the best way to describe the dread he felt towards working in the mine, the resentment he held toward his brother, the reverence he had for Miss Riley, and the intense effort that went into creating the rocket(s).
He should be very proud of the final copy he created, and I must say, I'm fascinated by the story he retold.
I loved this memoir; I'd seen the film October Sky in wood shop class back in grade 7 (our class was making wooden rockets) but I hadn't read the book until now and it was truly an amazing and nostalgic coming-of-age story set in a time when space was the latest thing and a group of boys find something fun to do in all the commotion of the changing times by launching amateur rockets from a shed. Well-written and vivid, this book is definitely worth reading.
