https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/511389.Medieval_Cities
Founding story of Western Europe, particularly in the origin of its cities. In effect, the city was the catalyst of medieval Europe, leading to personal freedom, economic freedom, expansion in trade, legal autonomy, and so forth, in a move way from feudalism. This was only made possible after the economic isolation of Western Europe from the Mediterranean due to the Muslim conquests. The only 'true' cities which existed before then in 'Europe' were Rome and Constantinople.I would have liked more detailed citations, but this is still a short book which ties together an interesting creation mythos about the West.
In this book, Pirenne traces the decline of (European) cities as a result of this crisis, and their revival in the 11th and 12th centuries due to the reopening of the ancient trade routes.Pirenne argues that the barbarian take-over of the Roman empire did not immediately result in a decline of civilization because the tribes adopted Roman ways and continued the Roman economic and political systems.
Cities such as Marseilles continued to function pretty much as they had during Roman times, as ports of entry for eastern merchandise as well as independent manufacturing and administrative centers.The real crisis occurred when Islam took over the periphery of Europe, and encroached into that continent itself, shutting off access to Asia and Africa.
Saggio assai famoso, che quando uscì ebbe un impatto notevolissimo sulla storiografia tardoantica e medievale europea: Pirenne per la prima volta traccia il solco e i limiti della sua celebre tesi, che riasumendo per sommi capi dice che:a) si può definire una teoria generale, valida per tutta Europa, che spiega come le città siano rinate (e in molti casi letteralmente rifondate) dopo il cataclisma barbarico dell'alto medioevo;b) la rinascita delle città si spiega con il rifiorire del commercio: intorno al nucleo dei borghi murati in cui s'erano rifugiati i nobili al collasso cittadino, nasce un  borgo nuovo , abitato da una masnada di fuoriusciti e scappati di casa che formeranno la borghesia cittadina e la nascente classe mercantile;c) il commercio sparisce  completamente  quando gli Arabi irrompono sulla scena mediterranea nel VII secolo, dividendo nettamente in due l'unità mediterranea, fulcro del commercio antico, e determinando l'appassimento dell'economia europea, priva pure di monete prezioso in quanto venute meno le fonti di approvviggionamento dell'oro (storicamente, la via che congiunge attraverso il Sahara l'Africa tropicale con la Tunisia).
This and Marc Bloch's French Rural History should be read together.Darn it. How men wrote love letters back in the good olden times.
This series of lectures provides an excellent introduction to the urban history of Western Europe from 600 a.d. to 1200 a.d. Pirenne that the emergence of the Islam dynasties following the Mohammed's Hegira in 622 a.d. caused the entire commercial system of the Roman empire to collapse.
The merchants acquired the hereditary status and trading rights in specific cities.
The bourgeois gradually gained the right to form their own councils to govern the cities.
The success of the bourgeois caused serfdom to decline any serf who managed to live in a city for a year without being recaptured acquired freedom and the right to remain in the city.
His books are always really enjoyable to read, clear and approachable while still being very intelligent.
These nascent merchant communities settled in old Roman cities (or in fortified suburbs around them) and inspired changes not only in the economic, but also in the political, social, and cultural life of European cities.There are lots of way to nit-pick Pirenne's writings.
But this, along with Mohammed and Charlemagne offers a pretty great introduction to medieval economic life from about 400-1200.
It's clear, readable, and does a wonderful job presenting its basic development.
It's also a great jumping-off point to more specific economic studies of the period.
Historical purists may poo-poo his use of such statements as "We can say that the town of Flanders, etc, etc;" others may also have issue with a lack of footnoting or direct references to the (obviously sizable, given the breadth of Pirenne's knowledge of facts, dates, and events) body of scholarship that backs Pirenne's work, though a bibliography is included in the last pages.What I adored this book for was its readability, and for Pirenne's connections between population increases, the appearance of independent merchants, the formation of communes and cities, and the increasing dominion of lay authority and governance in civil matters.
Indeed, it is that simplicity and clarity that makes this book so compelling.
Of course, those of us who do not have the time to do this, we must accept, as an article of faith, that Henri Pirenne is so well versed in this history that, given the opportunity to expand on his thesis, he can support all those generalizations, some of which seem too good to be true (life not being so simple).
Excelente libro. Pionero en explicar la caída de la economía occidental tras la expansión del Islam y, como producto de esto, la creación del feudalismo -a causa de motivos económicos-. Además es ameno e instruyente. La escuela de los Annales franceses es y será una gran motivación para ser historiador, pues al menos para mí lo es.
Afortunadamente -también, el autor no se reduce a divulgar en esta pequeña obra las claves para entender el origen de las ciudades medievales, un origen totalmente de la mano del comercio y, por tanto, del crecimiento de una nueva clase social en contraposición a las otras dos existentes, nobleza y clero, me refiero a la burguesía, sino que además el autor recalca algo muy importante, y es que la libertad individual, la igualdad de derechos ante la ley, comienzan aquí a hacerse un sitio en la sociedad, medio a codazos con el clero y la nobleza y medio a abrazos.
Medieval Cities: Their Origin and the Revival of Trade by Henri Pirenne was a very informative, yet dull book.
Pirenne does a fantastic job explaining how medieval cities sprung up form the Dark Ages and revived the trade between Europe and China on the Silk Road.
Surprisingly, this method worked and the new cities that were popping up everywhere were controlling trade and social classes.
The middle class played the largest role in the creation of new medieval cities, with the way they controlled trade and gained jobs through various apprenticeships.
Every class, however, played a pivotal role in the strengthening of Europe after the Dark Ages.
Pirenne argues that, in the period after what he calls the "closing of the Mediterranean," cities (which he defines by their political independence and their fostering of a merchant middle class) disappeared from western Europe, not to reappear until the eleventh century.
The heroes of his story are the merchants, who, he strongly implies, are the forerunners of capitalism, democracy, and a more nebulously defined "liberty."Historians of the Middle Ages will find much to argue with here, as is to be expected from a book almost a century old.
MEDIEVAL CITIES: Their Origins and the Revival of Trade.
This book, published by Princeton University Press, is a translation from the French of a series of lectures given by Professor Pirenne of (then) the University of Ghent to students at Princeton.
It was not until trade began to revive in the early Middle Ages that old cities cast off their lethargy and new ones appeared.
When trade revived and a merchant class appeared it was due to contact with Byzantium.
Mr. Pirenne's theories of the beginning of Medieval cities can be summed up even briefer than this slim title, but I won’t give it away.
He was writing at a time when language was quainter, wordier, and he often throws in Latin words (of which I love to try to figure out, but my intention on reading the book was to learn history, not Latin).
I learned a bit, but I really struggled with the verbosity.If you’re interested in Medieval history, this is certainly something worth reading among other titles.
The struggle is only 167 pages long!
Lecture series often make great books.
Not least because lectures are normally awarded to distinguished scholars with a lifetime of research at their command and an opportunity to distill it down to the essentials.So here we have Pirenne's famous Thesis and a brief yet dense description of the decline of European cities, their adolescence as centres of episcopal administration, and their revival in the high Middle Ages.
It's obviously a little dated, but still retains an essential quality in its broad strokes.
And it is a key work of historiography that shows just what it means to be a timeless book.
Ünlü tarihçi Pirenne'nin ortaçağ kentlerinin doğuşu ve kentli kimliği üzerine konuşma notlarından oluşan eseridir. Orta çağda ticaretin gelişmeye başlamasıyla beraber feodal ekonomiden kent ekonomisine nasıl geçildiği ve yeni, özgür tüccar sınıfın ihtiyaçları ve gücü doğrultusunda bu yeni ekonominin kendi kurumlarını, ilk belediye kurumlarını hangi şartlar altında ve nasıl yarattığına değiniyor. Mutlaka okunması gerektiğini düşünüyorum. Bilgi verdiği kadar konuları çok özet geçtiği için daha fazlasını okumak için açlık yaratıyor.
Medieval Cities presents the Pirenne Thesis, a cogent and convincing argument for the formation of early European cities by trade. Originally presented as a series of lectures, Pirenne argues from few sources, all the more convincingly relying on logic, etymology and philology. Medieval Cities is an entirely inspiring thesis and presentation of an entire life’s work. I believe I understand the label of ‘a classic,’ ascribed by my edition, from Princeton University Press.
Ortaçağda "kent"in yükselişi hakkında öğretici bir eser. Dili ağır değil ve aşırı detaycı değil, ama anlatılanların altında derin bir araştırma ve bilgi birikimi olduğu hissedilebiliyor. Bu arada yazarın Roma'nın çöküşü ile Ortaçağ ortamının başlamasına geçiş konusunda kendine has denebilecek, biraz farklı bir yorumu var...(İletişim Yayınları'nın bastığı Türkçe tercümeden okudum; İlber Ortaylı'nın yazdığı bir önsöz de var.)
This is an exceptionally clear and lively work of economic and social history, the perfect companion to Pirenne's Mohammed and Charlemagne. I can't vouch for how well his thesis has held up, but it seems plausible enough. And more importantly, it's fun to read.
ağır bir konusu olmasına rağmen ben kitabı çok akıcı buldum. ortaçağ Avrupasında köylerin kente dönüşümü çok güzel, gerçekçi bir dille anlatılmış.keşke bizans-osmanlı ticaret sentezine de değinilmiş olsaydı.
Ortaçağ boyunca ticaret algısından tutun, şehirleşme, burjuva sınıfının oluşumu gibi birçok konu bu kitapta açıklanıyor. Tarih meraklılarının büyük bir keyifle okuyacağına inanıyorum.
A little dry but a pretty excellent overview of the rise of commerce in Medieval Europe! Inspired me to brush up on my knowledge of history.
Why being a bourgeois is not a such a bad idea
è il libro in cui si tratteggia la " tesi Pirenne " , poi sviluppata in " maometto e carlomagno " . ma fare un'analisi delle città del medioevo e scordarsi le città italiane mi sembra riduttivo
