https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2306.Novels
This could be because she thinks that she can do better, the fact that she might just not want to be married to anyone, or because she is in love with a man named Lawrence Selden, but he is not rich enough to become her husband.
This quote explains very well Lily’s attitude in life, when a man she decided she wanted to marry had become engaged to another woman, “Lily’s passing light-heartedness sand beneath a renewed sense of failure.
She is already made rich by growing up with her Aunt Peniston, and she knows that she is an attractive woman, which leads to the coming and going of men in this novel.
Well...I've enjoyed my first classic book of 2009, Edith Wharton's The House of Mirth.
I know it may do me good to experience the type of ending that Wharton leaves us in The House of Mirth, but that does not mean that I feel good about it right now(I just finished the book a few seconds ago).
All of Wharton's characters come from a similiar experience, those who have money in New York(and other states and countries) and those who want or are acquiring money in the same time period.
This was a book club choice and I rather unwillingly started it. I'd read many Wharton and Henry James books in my 20s. It really is a brilliantly written book that gives you a knowledge of NY Society at the turn of the century. What a group of dull, self-centered, shallow people! However, with a couple of more inquisitive, intellectual people, it remains a fascinating book. It's one thing to write about the past, and another thing to write about a world you know, which Wharton does.
The Age of Confusion.Certainly an age among the wealthy classes of New York which managed to adhere to conventions and extreme morals of the time, yet at the risk of scandal, wIlling to forego life time dreams and promises.
The love affair which was doomed from the outset, was mainly hampered by Archer's ill-timed marriage to innocent youngling, and seemed a good idea at the time.
And Archer, withdrew from the love of his life.He was given a last chance to meet with Ellen, but declined, probably because of wasted years too many to contemplate.
The fourth novel, "The Age of Innocence" was a good read, which I wasn't expecting. Much more of a page turner than "The Reef" or "The Custom of the Country". I was a little surprised at the ending of "The Age of Innocence", but then when I reflected on the style exhibited in the previous three novels I nodded my head in acceptance.
Age of InnocenceA delightful look at a long past way of life by an author of the era. Her brief, admiring reference to Theodore Roosevelt showed that, like him, she understood that, as Bob Dylan sang, “the times they are a changing”.
This is a review for House of Mirth, which Natalie told me to read. I did read Age of Innocence and liked it. I just couldn't get into this one. I didn't seem to like any of the characters and didn't like the one who I think is the main character.
I just finished reading The Reef in this collection of four of Edith Wharton’s books.
And where Dickens long strings of phrases bring to life the sights, sounds, and smells of a dreary London slum, Ms. Wharton connects the dots of emotions and thoughts of upper-class people trained to present a reserved facade to everyone.This book confused me in two ways; the title and the ending.
Did she spend so much time connecting the dots of their thoughts and emotions so by the end we would know enough about each character to know what happened?
Set in 1875 in New York high society, the novel is both incredibly beautiful (the sentiments of the main character towards the woman he loves, who happens to be his fiancee's cousin, as well as the writing itself) and somewhat infuriating when you realize how small-minded and even cruel the seemingly genteel characters can be under their veneer of civility.
Newland Archer must decide if he should follow thru on his commitment to marry young and beautiful May Archer or follow his increasingly strong feelings for her cousin Ellen Olenska, who has returned to New York to escape an unhappy marriage with a Polish nobleman, but the plot is just as much about the accepted modes of behavior (and deception) within a small social circle and how far one can push against them.
Upon finishing I was too tired to fully digest the ending, but it's absolutely the way it had to happen.
The main female character was very tedious.
I didn't even care that the end was abrupt and didn't tie much up.
The book was a bore.The Custom of the Country was much more fluent and readable than the reef.
The main character was pretty well-developed.
An okay read.The Age of Innocence interesting because it was from a guy's perspective.
Too many society rules contradicted rules in the other stories.
Probably would've been fine if I hadn't read them all back to back.
There is something about the way Wharton describes the very rich of late 1800s America, in The House of Mirth, that can only really be captured with the very delicate paper of this edition. Of the story, it is the imperfect natures of the characters that draws me in and the fact that, whilst they resolve some issues, they are still flawed in the end. It may not be as gritty as some novelists with the setting, but it feels as though the emotions are...it helps to remind me that the glittering world of money isn't an Austen-esque world.
I had read The House of Mirth and The Age of Innocence before this, but I reread them and then tackled the The Custom of the Country and The Reef. These novels are all wonderful, especially the brutal and claustrophobic world of Society they present. The women characters especially have such potential and absoluetly no where to go with all their energies and intelligence, so that to watch their eventual defeats seems particularly poigant.
Loved Custom of the Country. If Wharton's good characters, Newland Archer and Lilly Bart find life unsatisfactory, her evil character, Undine Spragg doesn't. Nothing gets in her way and really she allows nothing to inhibit her rise in the rarefied worlds of Paris and New York. The funniest parts of the book are those where Undine learns how the aristocracy really live in late 19th century France. It is not that different from the old monied families of New York.
Wharton's novel is a departure from what you expect in a novel of manners and it can even be described as depressing. The question of what are we to take from this is strong as it seems to chronicle a wasted life to serve as a lesson for others. It does show the the attractions and terrors of society, especially against the inability of an individual to face reality and make adjustments.
I read this as part of a literature discussion group, paired with Phillip Roth's American Pastoral. While it was hard to connect with turn-of-the-century New York City, especially given the upper-upper class insularity of Wharton's 40 Families world, the writing--so descriptive and lyrical--was a joy.
This is a very satisfying, beautiful edition, and The Age of Innocence is a supreme American novel. And just want to add The House of Mirth to the 5-star review. Amazing, beautiful, perfect prose marred only by some lazy bigotry that Wharton shared with so many other writers.
Truthfully I only read bits and pieces of Edith Whartons novels because I had to read them for a class. I didn't particularly like her writing. I found it boring and most of the time didn't bother to keep up with the material.
This volume includes four Wharton novels, but I only read the first--"House of Mirth"--before lending the book to my mother. Brilliant writing and some terrific characters, but in the end I didn't care enough about the main character to really care about what happened to her. Sorry, Edith.
The House of Mirth - finished 09/07/11The Reef - finished 10/16/12The Custom of the Country - finished 10/06/13The Age of Innocence - finished 10/16/14 wow. what a tremendous novel. what a master wharton is at showing you just what she wants to show you and when. stunning, really.
Well I didn't get through all 4 stories in the book. I started with "The House of Mirth," and it was all I could do to get through that one! I think I would have done better with an English teacher or Cliff notes to help me through it.
I recently re-read this book and enjoyed it even more than the first time. It is a sad comment on the way women were treated in those times. It really brings home to me how lucky we are now to be able to earn a living.
Have read House of Mirth. Dry but interesting in the psychological dynamics of the characters. Essentially it's interesting for the head games and social intrigue of the rich social climbing characters, and those already at the top trying to stay there(or who fall down).
Very interesting to see how the other half once lived. I enjoyed the book, however I confess to enjoying the Merchant & Ivory movie versions better. So lush, it colored in the prose.
House of Mirth is on my short list of best books ever read.
House of Mirth: A thought-provoking piece by Wharton. Powerful tale of money and the consequences of being without it.
Reading The Custom of the Country now.
I love love love Edith Wharton's writing. I'm reading The Custom of the Country. I've already read Ethan Frome and could gush on about it forever. Very strange for a girl who doesn't like fiction!
The Age of Innocence is my favorite.
Read "The Custom of the Country" from this collection. Enjoyed it. Plan on reading the remaining titles.
Absolute classics that still resonate. Loved them in high school and still love them today.
