https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61994.Prince_of_Chaos
About a year ago, I was putting the finishing touches on my review of the First Chronicles of Amber, saying that the anticipation built to an amazing level toward the end, and that the ending was right up there with Stormbringer and The Dark Tower.
I'm sure Zelanzy had a lot planned for further Amber novels but this one left a distinctive meh taste in my mouth.The Second Chronicles of Amber aren't all bad, however.
Not a bad series of books but they would have been better had they not had to follow the First Chronicles of Amber.
Finished this series and I'm looking forward to reading something else. Luckily these are quick books to read so it doesn't take too much time.This book finished the series and I found the ending to be unsatisfactory. This book basically was composed of characters jumping between locations powered by newly found power/energy. Jump to some spot, some conflict happens, jump away, some conflict happens, jump away.I'd just stick to the first five Amber Chronicle books, leave 6 through 10 closed.
Okay, having read the whole of the "second series" of Amber books (#6-10, starting with Trumps of Doom, I can now say conclusively, "Don't bother."In the first series, Zelazny had an awesome hero, an awesome universe, and an awesome plot that spanned five (albeit short, by today's standards) books.
In this follow-up series, the hero is--if not dumb, at least ignorant and incapable, the universe is made up as he goes (including none of what was awesome about Amber and Shadow), and the plot is device-driven and unsatisfying.'Nuff said.
1 star from Kat: http://www.fantasyliterature.com/revi...
Started and finished in one sitting - the second half of this series (The Merlin Cycle) were definitely inferior to the first 5, which were good, and exceptional at times.
The writing itself wasn't quite as good either, though it kept the same snappy, realistic feel that was so refreshing in all the previous books.
The ending itself was fitting, and I enjoyed the return of Corwin as a major piece in this novel.
Overall, I'm glad I read The Chronicles of Amber - they were a refreshing change of pace, fun and short novels, with some great ideas and great execution.
the second Amber series is so mediocre compared to the first. apparently Zelazny did not think the plot through to the end, given the ridiculous number of dropped storylines that didn't amount to anything.
კარგი, მთლიანი სერია და მით უმეტეს მერლინის ქვე-სერია ნამდვილად არ იყო შედევრი, 2-3 წიგნი საერთოდაც მაკულატურას უფრო გავდა, მარა ცუდი ან კარგი კიარა, რაიმე ფინალს არ იმსახურებდა?
ეს კიდე პროსტა შეწყდა, კი არ დასრულდა - გაწყდა რა.მაგრამ ალბათ რაღაც სასწაული ფინალი უნდა ყოფილიყო სერია რომ ამოექაჩა.
არადა ზელაზნის ნამდვილად შეუძლია ძალიან მაგარი რამეების წერა, ფინალების - მით უმეტეს.
ეს კი ალბათ უკვე მე-10 წიგნია და დაეზარა, იფიქრა ისედაც ჭამენო...
წაკითხვა ჯობია საერთოდაც :)
a anti-climax but still a wonderful series.will reread this in future.
Overall I liked the Merlin saga even better than Corwin's stories.
I many ways it felt like book one and book two of a series, rather than the two sets of five books each, where the first book introduced a new concept and story and the second took it further, developing additional layers and ideas.That said, there were quite a few moments where I just didn't know what was going on.
Nevertheless, I would have preferred a method of resolving the major plot that didn't involve inventing a new kind of magic item that isn't consistent with any other part of the stories.Nevertheless, I enjoyed the book and the series.
It felt like a conclusion, what with a couple of mirrored moments from the first series, but there's a few bits and pieces left hanging.
Again, just like real life.I love how we see more of life in the Courts of Chaos.
The plotline of the succession to the throne of Chaos was brought up as an aside several books back and is raised again here, but in a manner that leaves a lot to be desired - I'd have accepted Mandor saying at some point in the previous book, "There's been more than a few duels and assassinations at home, be a bit careful, hey, Merlin?" but the thirty or so relatives in the line of succession suddenly gets reduced to three and nobody acts surprised until after the fact, or notices - in the intrigue-ridden Courts of Chaos - that, hmmm, there's been a lot of state funerals lately.As a conclusion it feels rushed.
These books focus on Merlin (Corwin's son) and to begin with I enjoyed the first couple of books as much as I enjoyed Corwin's story.
Luke, Merlin, and the T'yiga are really the only intersting characters throughout the novels and around book 9 the plot really lost its focus.
The trial/quest that Merlin had to go through reminded me of the hellrides that went on...
and on in previous books.
(hide spoiler)]The ending was very abrupt and Zelazny left most of the plot issues unresolved, almost as if he were planning on writing future novels.
I think my ultimately opinion reflects much of what other people hav esaid; good series, but the Corwin cycle, that is the first 5, are superior to the Merlin Cycle of the last Five.
The later are still emminately enjoyable, but they lack alot of the 'oomph' that carried the others through.As I had mentioned before, something that was a tad irritating in this series was the way world-building elements from the first novels were some-times undermined.
There is a level of abstraction that diverges from some o fthe thematic elements of the first set of books.
What a strange ending. This one starts out back with the "things are happening without any prior explanation or set-up", followed by another healthy dose of "everyone who was my enemy and was set us as the main bad guys turns out to be friends now or was helping me all along", ending up with "people I thought were friends turn out to be the surprise ending bad guys".  This is seriously the soap opera of epic fantasy...
Oh ....Roger....The world must miss you. I know these particular books are not for everyone, but the imagery in these, make me want more.More of your stories and imagination.
spoilers:i'm kinda disappointed that Merlin didn't destroy both Chaos and Order, collect all the 9 rings and ruled by himself along with Ghostwheel. Now that would be a great ending, but nontheless it was a good journey.
A long time ago when I read the Merlin books I really liked them, mostly because of the combination between the classic fantasy of the Amber series, and the computer geek that was Merlin. Ghost seemed such a cool idea back then.Rereading the books now I realized that Ghost never fulfilled its potential. I think it could have been much more interesting for it to be a main character instead of a device used to get people out of trouble when the going got tough.
This was a terrific series, lots of weird and wonderful ideas and images. I was very sorry to finish as that is the end of the Zelazny Amber novels, someday soon I'll head back to Amber and read some of the handful of short stories he set there.
He spent just the right amount of time on every arc, adding a few new ones that added a certain, nostalgic element to the whole work that really just left me reading the last page, and feeling that it really was the end of the story, but not the character’s lives, or the adventures they would have going forward.There were also a lot of fourth wall jokes that I got a kick out of, including:"Before we could depart, however, I heard voiced from that hallway.
An end to Merlin's tale, this book mostly takes place in the Courts of Chaos. While it brings most plot lines to an end, it leaves some questions unanswered, especially around Corwin, Amber, and Ghostwheel.
Except that in Prince of Chaos, final book of series, I am hesitant to call it “good” or that it actually ended.
By the end of the story, and many worlds later, three universes - Shadow, Pattern and Chaos - were revealed in all their cosmic super-powers.
The first 5 books were Corwin-centric, and the last 5 were about Merle’s coming of age into his destiny.
So, all good things must come to an end.
So, all good things must come to an end.
Zelazny passed away of cancer at age 58, a prolific life ended too soon.
The final book in Zelazny's Chronicles of Amber is enjoyable, but alas, not among the best in the series.
I understand why so much had to happen in this book: Zelazny was wrapping up this second part of the Amber series, taking care of all the loose ends built up around Merle in the previous few books.
The author does a serviceable job in bringing everything to a satisfying conclusion, but I'd have preferred something -- dare I say it?
I loved the entire Amber/Chaos series. The ending of this book left me wanting though. The ending felt too sudden As if there should have been more. It almost felt like the author got tired of writing and just did a quick wrap up. A little disappointing for such an amazingly detailed series.
I have long wanted to read a book by Roger Zelazny but somehow just never got around to it until this novel landed on my shelves.
It takes so much thought and creativity on the part of the writer to create as well as the reader to visualize and understand.
And, while I haven't read the earlier novels in this series I intend to do so.
Thus, he reaches for his father but only finds his ghost who helps as best he can to maintain the balance of these alternate worlds.
Where is his father?
Has his mother imprisoned him or has he died and she has hidden his body?
I was hoping for a big payoff after all of the time investing in reading the first four of this series especially the last two which seemed to just add more threads and convoluted storylines, reminding me of the middle seasons of 'Lost'.And like 'Lost', I was fairly disappointed with the ending.
Eventually even arch enemy brother Jurt befriends Merlin and helps his cause because he decided now that becoming king might be a hassle and maybe it wasn't worth fighting for after all.
I enjoyed the hell out of this, the final book of the second series of Amber books concerning Merlin, son of Corwin.I read this and it's predecessors years ago.
In my recent review of Trumps of Doom, the first of this second Amber series, I recalled some memories of disappointment back in the day but couldn't remember why as I have had a great time rereading these books.
But now I have an idea of why I had that long ago impression.
Still, this is very much worth the read.
However I discovered that (view spoiler)[ the story does not wrap up that well!!
(hide spoiler)]
The rabbit hole still continued to grow, although, by this last book the trails should have been receding back to a resolution, IMO.
I still loved the story and the direction it took, but overall this last book started getting a little too busy and harder to follow.
The thing that really knocks the rating down, for me, is the lack of closure at the end.
I would like to know what happened with many characters and events that were sort of left 'hanging'.This is still probably my new favorite series of all-time, though I would have liked a lot more closure in the ending.
Ugh, and BLECH. Ten books in this series, each half being its own stand-alone story. The first five books are PHENOMENAL. The second five, culminating in this MESS, this awful, confusing, meandering MESS that ends up with no climax, no REASON, no ANYTHING. Too many names, too many plots, too much CHAOS (literally and figuratively in this particular series). Nothing describes these 2nd five books, and this FINAL book better than this: A MESS!Ugh. Remind me NEVER to read these 2nd five books again.
I had to finish this series against my persistent urge of not wanting to after reading mixed reviews with some of them being terrible. Not to mention the 1-star rating I gave the previous book in the series, but this one somewhat delivers, same as the rest of the series. Every ending has left me somewhat dissatisfied, including this one. I liked it, but I wouldn't recommend this series to anyone. Well, maybe someone who had read all the other better books in the prison library and these were still unread. I'd say read them. Otherwise, find something else..
I'm not quite sure what Zelazny had in mind with the five book Merlin Cycle. He began with an interesting plot but wrapped it all up at the end of the 3rd book. He then had to start up a new plot in book four and the series never really recovered. Maybe he planned it as a 3 book series, maybe he ran out of ideas, it's tough to say, but the result is a rather disappointing end to an otherwise excellent series.
Mulle näib, et kuigi autor on Merlinit mõnikord teenimatult liiga taipamatu udupeana kujutanud, meeldib ta mulle isegi rohkem, kui Corwin. Ja kuigi mõnes vahepealses episoodis selles sarjas kiskus asi kuidagi väga imelikuks ja käest ära, siis siinsetest seiklustest tulev lisainformatsioon nii Amberi, Kaose kui ka vahepealsete varjusüsteemide ning ka Mustri ja Logruse kohta andis kokkuvõttes kuidagi palju parema taustasüsteemi ka esimeses sarjas toimunule. Peaks vist uuesti alustama otsast... :P
