https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/765430.Who_Censored_Roger_Rabbit_
This hardcover is numbered 40 of 300 copies produced, with an additional 20 copies for contributors, The book is signed by Gary K. Wolf and Wayne Anderson (artwork).
That's when I finally noticed on the end credits that it was based upon a book I had never ever heard about.When I eventually found a copy of the book, the story I read only had fleeting similarities beyond the names and occupations of the main characters.
If they'd been more true to the book, it would have lost out on its cross generation appeal.Even though I can honestly say that I prefer the movie that was loosely based upon it better, this was still an interesting read, and I like some of the key plot differences and concepts that can be found in the book.
This book is so amazing. The ending was not what I expected it to be. It kept me guessing till the very last page. This is one of my new favorite books!
Okay but far from greatI didn't realise when I reviewed on Amazon it would overtake my initial review on Goodreads. I'll review again shortly.
WOW. I LOVED this! Frickin' hilarious, clever, and brilliant. I was not prepared for that ending. And, as in most mysteries I read (I don't read many), I got a little lost in the middle. But it was great!If you loved Garfield: His 9 Lives, you will like or love this.
The cartoonish elements are downplayed, somewhat associated with racism and classism, but never really addressed in such a way to get across a point.The plot is windy and twisty, but never particularly engaging.
The result is a book that felt, unfortunately, half-realized until it reached the silver screen, where it comes fully into its own.I'm glad I read the book, but would probably recommend to anyone that they skip it and watch the film instead, unless they are a die-hard fan of the story and wants to see where some of the superficial elements of the film came from.It's a worthy effort, but ultimately not quite as good as it wants to be.
Getting away from comparisons and to this book itself, it's a nice homage to noir detective novels and the first person voice is pretty fun to read.
The world Wolf crafts is also an interesting one of toon/human segregation.
Wolf also creates a demented cast of characters to populate the world that make for a fun time as he interrogates them.
Overall, it's a fun read if you're a fan of the noir detective genre and don't expect it to hew too closely to the movie Who Framed Roger Rabbit.
Here's a movie that is so uniquely cinematic that it couldn't ever work as a book." Every time I watch "Who Framed Roger Rabbit" that pops into my mind.
So, imagine my surprise when I discovered that, in fact, the movie was based on a book.
There are some aspects that don't quite work--the last act, in particular, falls apart a little with the "solution" to the murder coming very much out of left field--but, for the most part, this is a mystery about double crosses and violence that takes itself seriously even as half the cast are comic strip characters talking through word balloons.
Roger and cast are a lot more grimy here, but it all sort of mostly works.
I originally read this shortly after the Disney film came out.
As many have said, the only things the book and film have in common are a detective named Eddie Valiant and a Toon named Roger Rabbit, who is accused of killing a human.
Roger is married to Jessica Rabbit, a humanoid Toon knockout and he does work with Baby Herman.
I actually snagged it yesterday afternoon, sat down to read last night, and finished it before going to bed.
Definitely worth reading again, and I'm sure I'll come back to it from time to time.
3.5Esta lectura fue inesperada y debo resaltar que he tenido que desterrar toda idea preconcebida de la película para abordar la historia pues...
La película de Disney me encantó, pero es una película de Disney, debe ser políticamente correcta y con mucha acción.
No es una historia plagada de acción, si no un old-fashion detective story, fue como leer algún relato protagonizado por Humprey Bogart, donde a través de las entrevistas que va realizando el protagonista Eddie Valiant vamos develando el misterio.
Lo único que no me gustó tanto fue que el misterio da tantos giros que cuando se resuelve andaba un poco confundido sin saber en realidad qué creer XD.
for years, ever since I heard that it was the basis for Who Framed Roger Rabbit a movie I love.
The plot-Eddie Valiant is hired by Roger Rabbit to find out what is going on with his contract.
The day after Eddie is hired, both Rocco and Roger are dead.
First of all, Roger is a comic strip character.
The characters who are animated are in...comic book strips.
The book is set in the 1980's, so cartoon characters are wearing jeans.
No, really, Roger Rabbit dies from being shot(view spoiler)[by a genie.
Seriously, go watch Who Framed Roger Rabbit.
Toons live side-by-side with humans, all around the world.
They are no cuddly stars, just there to provide entertainment to humans.
Eddie Valiant relies on cards to pay the rent, he's a decent man and still a true alcohol lover.
You won't see a single character with no vices here.If you ask me, I tend to prefer the book.
What with the scathing remarks in Eddie's thoughts and the weirdness of the toons speaking in baloons, I can't remind of a single boring chapter.
But, in Eddie's words, with toons you know enough to expect the ridiculous!
Read summer of 1988, in anticipation of the blockbuster hit movie of almost the same name.
Another case wherein I liked the film better than the book, although I loved the idea.
Jessica, e in generale i cartoni umanoidi, rappresentano un'ovvia eccezione.La storia del libro inizia con un detective privato, Eddie Valiant, assunto dal coniglio Roger Rabbit per una questione legale a riguardo del proprio contratto di lavoro: i fratelli De Greasy, Dominic e Rocco, che hanno su di lui diritti in esclusiva, gli avrebbero promesso una strip tutta sua mentre invece si ritrova dopo anni a fare la spalla di Baby Herman.
Nel libro non c'è alcun bisogno di una giustificazione per il razzismo, cosa che trovo più realistica, anche se la storia del fratello di Valiant era meravigliosa.
The part with the murderous genie was not really my favorite and with any other book i think I would have been less accepting of it because with murder mystery books I like to have a chance to guess who the killer is and not have it be a character that was never mentioned before the reveal.
The only reason I think I was ok with it is because it fits with the wacky out of the blue feel of the book.
Even though the genie comes out of nowhere I don't mind, that's sort of the whole book.
Wonderful Centipede Press edition of the novel that the movie "Who Framed Roger Rabbit" was adapted from. The dust cover artwork and interior illustrations by Wayne Anderson are excellent. It also features an illuminating and engrossing introduction by the author.The Toon world in the novel and the movie is essentially the same, but the plot is significantly different. The novel more closely follows the hard-boiled detective genre conventions.I hope that Centipede Press does Wolf's follow up novel, Who P-P-P-Plugged Roger Rabbit?
Only four characters from the book made it into the film: Eddie Valiant, Roger Rabbit, Jessica Rabbit (and yes she's a knockout in the book as well!) and Baby Herman.
The whole point is different but after reading the book and watching the film, I can feel a similiar vibe.
Along the way, Valiant discovers truths Roger failed to tell him, in particular that two weeks earlier, his wife of a year, Jessica left him to go back to her former lover, Rocco DeGreasy.
The story, in its way is cheesy with its standard film noir detective talk but this book is a lot of fun.
This review is going to be rife with spoilers so do not continue if you are interested in reading this book.
Thing is the wish only lasts a year so once the year was up Jessica realized she didn't know why she was with Roger and divorced him.
In the end it turns out Roger killed himself and was attempting to put the frame on Eddie for his death.
That's right people, our beloved Roger Rabbit was a suicidal pseudo-rapist who tried to get Eddie incarcerated for life...
Oh, hey, there's a reason to still read the book!
A fun enough read, though by no means necessary unless you're curious about the origins of the much-more-entertaining film it later inspired.
While I haven't read terribly much in the film noir, private eye genre, the dialogue and premise seemed kind of forced and hokey.
There were definitely laugh-out-loud spots here and there, as well as moments where a sudden piece of the puzzle would drop in your lap and you'd be compelled to keep reading just a little longer, but it's a jerky trip.
Nonetheless, there are definitely worse curiosities out there.P.S.
Where the movie is a doughnut of family entertainment sprinkled with film noir, the book is a pound cake of Raymond Chandler with whimsy icing.
These contrasts--book and movie, whimsy and noir--are distracting, and I was constantly comparing and analyzing, rather than enjoying this oddball story.Wolf's concept is more sophisticated than just "cartoons walking among us".
The device is used inconsistently: characters have to move the things out of the way or otherwise have to deal with them, but only when convenient to the plot.
But it's impossible to get uptight about little things like details of continuity when dealing with such an off-the-wall book.
A Terrific Surprise! It was not until the third to last page that I fully understood how wildly this novel diverges from the movie. My familiarity and love for the film made it somewhat difficult to accept Mr. Wolf's version of the characters but sticking it out was more than worth it. The ending was far more emotionally impactful than I had anticipated and left me quietly contemplative for for a solid 10 minutes as I re-read the last chapter twice. I am left feeling grateful to Mr. Wolf for giving me two amazing gifts, 25 years apart.
While the book is certainly nothing like the movie I grew up with, it is interesting in its own right. I found myself imagining how different aspects of the book could have been included in the movie, particularly the use of physical speak and thought bubbles. The storyline is considerably different--the end is definitely less saccharine. I enjoyed the book, but I think I was too hung up on the movie to fully appreciate the source text.
I had heard that the book was worlds away from the eventual film, and boy did I hear right! I'm glad, though. It was a solid mystery with extraordinarily entertaining narration and enough red herrings to keep me guessing for most of the run. It was nice and short, too, which, for a story like this, is in its favor. I'm glad I read it. Probably won't again, but I'm glad I did.
Do you remember the movie? Well this is nothing like it and it's dark as fuck. The book is well written, with good plot-twists that developes an interesting mystery. I, however, have mixed feelings about the end. Granted, it wasn't bad, but it was not what I was expecting, and I cannot say if it was creative or not.An overall 3.5
Surprisingly dark for the novel that "Who Framed Roger Rabbit?" is based on. Has the same basic cast as the movie, but the similarities pretty much end there. The entire plot is completely different. The toons in the story are intended to function as an allegory for racial tensions that is completely absent from the film.
Not like the movie. It was gritty, I liked it. I wouldn't bring it up if I was chatting a girl up in a bar, though.
This is the book that inspired the film "Who Framed Roger Rabbit?" But put the film out of your mind--this is a completely different story.Eddie Valiant is a former Marine and now a private investigator in the Sam Pade mold: cynical, hard-drinking, prefers action to introspection.
But he's not stupid and he does have a soft spot or two, especially for the Truth.Roger Rabbit hires him because the DeGreasys, owners of the largest comic syndicate, won't honor their commitment to give him his own strip.
Roger is convinced Rocco is holding Jessica against her will.Eddie does a cursory investigation and is convinced that Roger is nuts.
#readingchallenge2016 (my book from my childhood)The intent for the read was to compare the book to the beloved movie, and what I found was a completely different Toon Town Story Line.
I would say, normally I wouldn’t mind such large changes from book-to-movie, but the issues with the writing on a larger scale lend me to rate this poorly, so it’s not just the differences.The book follows a seemingly more intense (rated R), Toon Town.
This setting, with its segregation and toon-racism lends wonderfully to a darker case of betrayal and murder, however, I felt the whodunit didn’t read well.
I learned about this book through The Dom on YouTube and his Lost in Adaptation series.
I feel like so many parts of this book shouldn't have worked for me.
I can't say I really like Eddie, but I really, really liked this book as a whole experience.
It just worked for me.(view spoiler)[I will say the implications of the Jessica story line aren't exactly welcome or comfortable.
I was glad Eddie got her off because while I don't think I was supposed to like her character, in a weird way I did.
(hide spoiler)]
