https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40961543-the-reluctant-fundamentalist
At a Bookstore in India  Sir, I see that you are checking out this book by Mohsin Hamid . I read it a few days back. How did I find it you ask? Well, it was pretty interesting. I found the narration style of the author quite unique. I think that alone was reason enough to make it worth. Oh, you are getting distracted. I see you are eyeing those shining new book covers of The Hunger Games and The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo. They came out after the movies were released. No, I have not seen the
I see in your grip on the book and the way your eyes exuded enthusiasm when you saw the new cover, that you like to buy books.
You feel this story line has been covered umpteen times in many books.
You are turning some pages to look if you find it interesting.Reading a full page from the middle of the book is also a good idea.
I have to admit the ending is not so interesting but I hope that won’t make the whole book useless for you.
I like to talk to people about books.
Would you like to recommend some book to me?
Apparently we were denied entry into United States because a passenger was on their no-fly list.On landing in Japan, as we all emptied the plane, I saw a family of about 6 - a young boy, bearded, about 20, and women of different ages wearing burkha's - sitting quietly in the center seats not meeting anyones eyes.
Changez a young muslim, confident, achiever, confused, looking for acceptance, searching for identity, guilty of abandoning family, trying to define his patriotism, enjoying the fruits of his labor - all his layers come through with such clarity.
Vietnam, Korea, the straits of Taiwan ..."I thought there was so much more to be said about how the East wants what the West has got without wanting to be colonised and disembowelled by the West, and how America is the very embodiment of guilty pleasure, and how this love hate thing is like to drive entire countryfuls of young men raving mad, given the repressive anti-sex poverty-stricken societies they come from, and how this explains a whole lot, but Hamsid's touch was so light you could almost have mistaken it for shallowness.
And I'm glad I made an introduction with Mohsin Hamid's The Reluctant Fundamentalist, who earlier wrote Moth Smoke, a novel, which Rahul Bose is now adapting into a film.Lately, there has been a flowering of young Pakistani writers like Hamid and Kamila Shamsie (Cartography, Salt And Saffron), and in many ways, this is the first literary stirring that the country is witnessing.The Reluctant Fundamentalist looks at the increasingly volatile and precariously balanced relationship between the West (United States) and East (South Asian Muslim countries), and how without a certain sense empathy, this equation will steadily spiral downwards.Interestingly, Hamid’s point here is that a feeling of fundamentalism can arise in the unlikeliest of people, when they feel pushed to a corner.The novel’s protagonist, Changez is a Princeton graduate, has led a charmed life back in Pakistan and is all set for a enviable career in New York.He bags a job with one of the premium companies of the city, Underwood Samson and in a short while, is recogonised as one of the firm’s brightest young talents.If he thought life couldn't get better, he’s proved wrong.
In one sustained monologue, a young Pakistani named Changez relates his life story to an unidentified American man in a cafe in the city of Lahore.
Changez, a Princeton graduate who once worked as an analyst for a Manhattan financial firm, tells us how his optimistic view of America began to darken in the aftermath of 9/11.
I liked this book for its elegant style and outsider's viewpoint, but my favorite part of it is the mysterious relationship between the narrator and his American listener.
Tension and threat bubble beneath the novel's polite surface, and the possible explanations for that tension keep the reader guessing and give the novel sublety, power and depth.
Nine Reasons To Read This One:Because it’s short, yet evocative: a relief at a time when authors nee
The structure of this is tale is Changez telling his personal story to a burly American visitor (probably a spook of some sort) to his country, in his function as a guide to Pakistan.
Changez, born to fading gentry in Pakistan, has attended Princeton on scholarship, gotten a lucrative job with a top tier financial company, and is in love with beautiful, blond upper-class Yank.
Essentially what we have here is a foreigner (Changez) falling in love with America (get it?
For example, Changez feels an affinity with the jeepney driver in the Philippines, yet the choices he makes are all to strive within the western world.
This is the second book I read by a Pakistani author, first being My Feudal Lord by Tehmina Durrani, which I judged on the basis of its subject and not on writing style and since I read it around 6 years ago, all I could recall was that it was simple but affected me enough to evoke emotions of empathy which might not hold true at present having read many great books and becoming more aware and objective about the world around me since then so it might not feature in the league of extra ordinary but it definitely left an impression which reluctant fundamentalist, as I highly doubt would be able to achieve.
You're not told why the American is there, or what he does, or quite why young Changez is telling him these things.
After all, they said--- full scholarship to Princeton, near-six-figure Wall Street job at 22, beautiful American girlfriend: how dare he dislike America?
Changez is secular, and his disdain for Americans isn't religious as much it is based on tribe and class and a sense of falling between identities.
"The Reluctant Fundamentalist" is an unexpected find, and a story with a whole cast of ghosts and ideas happening just behind the main narrative.
One of the most contentiously rated novels I've seen hereI'd had the book for 2-3 years probably, when, a couple months ago, I determined that I needed to make shelf space.
It's all in the first person, the words are being spoken by the narrator, Changez, to an American man, never named, whose apparently only occasional words are never explicitly heard, simply acknowledged in the narration by something like,Oh, but you mustn't assume that I believed that, sir.
“When my turn came, I said I hoped one day to be the dictator of an Islamic republic with nuclear capability; the others appeared shocked, and I was forced to explain that I had been joking.” It explores, but only manages to scratch the surface, the question of religious fundamentalist amongst contemporary Muslim youth.
No, it doesn't explore it, but makes a joke out of it, through an artificially constructed dilemma of one Changez, a Pakistani expat in the United States, who has turned to "fundamentalism" after the history-making day of nine-eleven.Location: Lahore, the famous Food Street in Old city.
It is now 2013, and no doubt many Pakistanis like our titular narrator have reason to be suspicious of America, perhaps over secret agreements and drone strikes.
The Reluctant Fundamentalist is trying to be a political allegory yet also a complex psychological piece, yet it accomplishes neither.
It concerns the narrator, his own ugly little mind, and how he seeks to change the world to that image he creates.What sort of person does it take to be a fundamentalist, or some other such extremist belief?
He drinks beer and lusts like the rest.This book disappointed me.
I instead found the narrator's rotten mind more interesting.
I plan to make a discussion video about this book, so I'll save a lot of my thoughts, but let me say that this was brilliant.The second-person narration is extremely powerful, as it confronts "you"—the implied American (or Western) reader—and implicates you directly in the events that have taken place in the novel and as complicit with the politics that shaped the landscape that produced it.
Everything is mediated through Changez, the entire story is told through his perspective, and the American voice is ostensibly erased, especially interesting considering the discourse in post-9/11 society that has attempted to erase any dissenting voice.Finally, the ending, so ambiguous and heavy with discomfort, is so challenging and so productive.
Sjajan... neobican... ima ono "nesto" specificno za autore poreklom iz Indije i Pakistana... sjednom finom notom humora meni veoma dragog... Prava je kupio jedan srpski izdavac, ali je zapao u teskoce i knjiga verovatno nece skoro biti objavljena na srpskom... Za sve one kojima se dopala knjiga Pitanja i odgovori Vikasa Svarupa (Laguna) ili Beli tigar (IPS)
The reason why he has come back to Pakistan is the subject of the story.Changez narrates his tale to his invisible (in literary terms!) guest, and we listen.
This shadow listener, in facts, works well as a literary device and also serves to enhance a feeling of creeping menace slowly slipping into the barmy Lahore evening.Well, in my opinion, the positives end there.Changez is explaining why he became disillusioned with America and became the “reluctant fundamentalist” of the title: however, his story doesn’t hold water.
Supremely interesting and well told, but I'll have to think a lot more about the ending. Still, I'm very glad I read it.
In other words a TRUE revolutionary.The interests of Hamid's much denounced muslim nation (he identifies with Afghanistan as much as he does with Pakistan) would be much better served had he produced a more self critical novel that would cause the average pakistani or generic third world muslim to introspect and self reflect about why they are such non-entities on the world stage (other than BLAME AMERICA FIRST) and perhaps suggest some way they might be able to pull themselves up by the bootstrap and get out from under the heel of the IMF, the World Bank and the instruments of America's considerable military might.
The Reluctant Fundamentalist is a lesson in civility.
Its pacing is practiced and hospitable.
There is ceremony and sublimation.
Such is the story of Changez, a Pakistani Princeton graduate and one-time corporate star in NYC, told on a wonderful day in Lahore.
The novel offers a modest immigrant's tale.
While it is clear there is extreme emotion just under the surface, the notion of any real threat remains uncertain.
It is this menace which propels the narrative, enhances our suspicions, allows to err on the side of a hasty credible threat.The novel is masterful as an illumination, as an idyll and as a pointing a finger at our own fears.
Da quale recesso recondito della tua mente orientale?Tu stesso, ragazzo pakistano, te ne stupisti e ti facesti ribrezzo e ti stigmatizzasti da solo, e tentasti di estirpare quella parte di te che ancora non eri riuscito ad addomesticare ai valori dell’occidente.E in un attimo, per quel paese terrorizzato colpito al cuore, regredito in un giorno di settembre del 2011 indietro di decenni, i tuoi pieni voti e la tua riconosciuta determinazione professionale non sarebbero contati più.Di te sarebbe rimasto a fuoco il colore della pelle catalizzatore di miriadi di sospetti indifferenziati, e la cosmopolita New York si sarebbe mostrata con il nuovo volto, il volto dell’ostilità.Il fondamentalista riluttante è un ottimo libro ben narrato, ben scritto, efficace nel descrivere una realtà che fa pensare, ho apprezzato meno la storia d’amore che nell’economia del racconto ci sta perché rende più tormentato ed elastico il legame di attrazione e repulsione che il fondamentalista riluttante intrattiene con l’America, ma avrei preferito una relazione sentimentale meno improbabile, più normale, che non avrebbe sacrificato una oncia alla bellezza di un romanzo che ritengo del tutto consigliabile.

I mean, the love story of Jack and Rose provided the sample of two lovers' personal tragedy amidst the bigger tragedy of the sinking Titanic but I cannot say the same of Changez and Erica as their drama is totally mawkish and their characters, caricaturist.I was able to relate with some scenes in the book like when I go to the US, the airport security always asks me to line up in the non-American queue because I show them a non-American driver's license.
The reluctant fundamentalist promises a lot, but ends up just so plain, and bland. Firstly, the title is misleading, there's nothing about religion, chauvinism, or fundamentalism. It's mostly, the turmoil of a Pakistani secular muslim, who apparently, is in love-hate relationship with America, and this girl, Erica. The prose and style reminds me too much of The Fall by Albert Camus, second person narrative, talking to a stranger in a cafe. I guess the writer didn't want to write anything serious except the title. For one thing, the great east-west cultural conflict is well done, and its real short.
Sure he has access to the halls of power, and an education they could only dream of, yet he is cut-off from the Pakistani community in New York, making him easy to empathize with.
And the way Hamid paints Changez's growing dissatisfaction with America is believable and spot on.
Through Changez's reactions to him, we see how a rational, educated man who likes Americans, but sees through their bluster, can come to also fear Americans.
And when Changez leaves the American at his hotel's gate, that waiter is jogging after them.
Mohsin Hamid also wrote "Moth Smoke," and that brought me to this book--the flashy title could have been ignored.
At first, the way he wrote it seemed charming but quickly turned annoying.
He assimilates and loves his life in America but his outlook changes after September 11.
While Hamid describes the book as a love story, he makes just enough commentary on America's colonialist attitude (which he writes almost as prose--it's worth cutting out and gluing to...something for future...whatever) and the main character's transition that I can see neo-cons picking it up and renewing their conviction.
To further the continuance of the romantic motif of holding on to memories, Changez, too, suffers from the irrational inability to let go, for even after he returns to Pakistan he cannot form a new relationship because he cannot let go of Erica’s memory.Erica is one of the most important characters in The Reluctant Fundamentalist because she is the corporeal representation of everything Changez dreams of in America.
Indeed, following the tragic events of September 11th, the people of the United States were also trapped in the country’s own idealized version of its past and struggling with its own nostalgia, thus also unable to accept Changez as an American convert, to use the narrator’s terms.
I do think that this book is very accurate in its description of how one in Pakistan, and plenty of other countries, are likely to view America.
Their society was amazing before the US was around and yet the US is somehow to blame for their own lack of progress in say the last thousand years or so.
It is interesting that a character so apparently progressive and informed so quickly judges an entire society of people by the actions of a few or its foreign policy while taking no responsibility for the actions of his own people, his own government, or the select neighboring countries he views as friends.
So far a total disappointment.What happened to the brilliant author of Moth Smoke?This book with his narrator's monologue looks like an attempt to simplify both: literature and points of view.Even irony seems put here and there without a logic.And the effect of all these fake attempts to pretend the narrator is really having a conversation with the stereotype of an American businessman in Lahore is really disturbing.I hope that Hamid is going to surprise me, but still page after page, chapter after chapter I am becoming pessimist.
And this unbearable omniscient figure keeps on narrating for (apparently) the whole book without intermissions.
Help!
I seem to be reading lots of books about immigrants lately.
I've had this audiobook in my shelf to read for a while now.
For some reason I decided to download it this weekend and couldn't stop listening until the end.I also think that writing a good review about The Reluctant Fundamentalist is way above my pay-grade, so I am going to use a few adjectives to describe the book and my reaction to it as best I can:About the book: Enigmatic,Candid, elegant, nuanced, relevant, thoughtful, bitter, powerful...About my reaction to it: Ambivalent, enchanted, spooked, surprised, cautious,mesmerized...I might come back later and add some other thoughts but for now I think that the best I can do.This was a powerful book to read and listen to.Satya Bhabha the narrator of the audiobook, was superb.
3.5 StarsHonestly, I don’t think I would have enjoyed this at all if I hadn’t read it for a class. This opens a lot of discussion and there really IS a lot to unpack here.But it also slams you over the head with the symbolism??(Your girlfriend am-Erica can’t accept you until you assimilate and pretend to be someone else? You come to resent the unforgiving firm you work at with its U.S. initials??) (RTC maybe probably not)
it was different from what I usually read.I could relate to changez cause I know so many Pakistanis.
what annoyed me about this book was the character's relationship with Erica!
they were so ill-suited and his attachment to her was so not understandable to me!how the character's personality changed was really interesting to read and to look at things from a point of view of a Muslim who lived in America at the time of 9/11.
anyway I rated this 3 stars cause I felt like the story needed more insights and it left me with a sense of un-closure
