https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/514313.Bringing_Down_the_House
Bringing Down the House: The Inside Story of Six M.I.T. Students Who Took Vegas for Millions follows six M.I.T. students who form a blackjack card-counting team.
If I hadn't know that this was non-fiction prior to having read it, I would have thought that this was a literary thriller.Did you know card-counting is not cheating?
However, casinos don't look upon card-counters too kindly.
Casinos have their own set of rules for handling card-counters..
In addition, there is also a "semi-sequel" to this book, entitled Busting Vegas: A True Story of Monumental Excess, Sex, Love, Violence, and Beating the Odds.I'd recommend this to anyone who likes the Ocean's movies and the movie that this book was based on, 21.
Nope, they then act like very bad sports indeed by getting these winners banned from each and every casino in the world.Gambling in general and casinos in particular were very much in the grip of the Mafia until times not so long gone by.
It's only for fun you see, you must only play for fun, just the luck of the draw and not win too much too often, it can't be a business, nor a career, nor a way to make money, nope, only the casinos are allowed to take gambling that seriously.
The pace of this book was off at certain times and the characters were not believable most of the time, even though it was supposedly a true story.
If you delve past the surface, you will find out that it is not actually a true story all of the time.
The relationships seemed the same and I imagine that the main character actually hooked up with the rams cheerleader a couple of times, but the book makes it seem as though they dated for years.
He placed Excalibur halfway down the Strip from Luxor (or was it MGM Grand), which is all wrong, they are right across the street from one another (which works out for either Luxor or MGM in relation to Excalibur), half way down the Strip from Luxor would be like the Bellagio or one of those casinos.
I just thought he was taking some liberties, which he was, I mean it's not like it's difficult to tell the casinos apart just by looking at them.
Why would you not give some info like that, especially when most of the book reads like a travel guide dropping names of places.
I disliked Bringing Down the House, and can't understand why everyone I know who's read it has raved about it.I'll grant that it's an interesting story.
Done improperly, it's annoying as fuck; the worst parts of Casino Royale were the bits with the twit in the casino explaining how poker works to the presumably incredibly competent agent sent by the British government to keep an eye on the money.Virtually every piece of dialogue in this book is like that.
And it's a shame, because there's an interesting true story under all the dross.You want a good book to read, on a similar subject?
I see people saying how they do not enjoy the fact that Ben Mezrich added some extra events that didn’t happen to the real team.
I understand that these were added to the book to give it more of a story, but I felt as though Ben really stretched it.
I felt as though that relationship didn’t add to the book at all.
Wanting to find out what happens to Kevin Lewis and his team of MIT students.
Each character, except Felicia, added something new to the adventures our team goes on, and really helped moved the story along.
"Bringing Down the House: The Inside Story of Six M.I.T. Students Who Took Vegas for Millions" by Ben Mezrich is a nonfiction work that takes a look at a group of MIT graduates and dropouts who develop and perfect a card counting system, which they use to great effect.
Specifically, the book concerns Kevin Miller, who is apparently Asian despite the inventive pseudonym, and his involvement with the team of MIT card counters.As I read this book, I kept flipping back to the frontispiece and wondering, sometimes aloud, why Mezrich has six other titles to his credit.
Does that mean she thought card counting was really boring, or is she just so ridiculous that she actually thinks “consulting” is an “addictive” proposition?
Some readers thought that immoderate use of cursing kind of brought the book to a lower level.
As I was reading the book, I imagined myself as Kevin Lewis or one of the other MIT members gambling and outsmarting the system.
Also, some of the detail in this book was not as good as I thought it would be.
When he got voted out the team, Mickey gave Martinez, Fisher, and Kevin warning about the growing technology that the casinos were starting to obtain.
There was not really a good poetic use of language in is book.
It had its weaknesses, such as Jill's underdeveloped character (who for unexplained reasons seemed motivated to join the blackjack team in pursuit of something other than wealth and looked down on those who claimed they planned to stick around just long enough to reach a specific financial goal), but was vicariously thrilling and entertaining overall.I will stick with Busting Vegas to the end, because I am a stubborn reader who can appreciate a good story even when it's rendered poorly, but I've lost interest in reading anything else by Ben Mezrich.
This book was such a fast, easy and satisfying read (how often do all three of those adjectives apply to one book), and if you're a fan of Clooney's OCEAN'S 11, you'll love it.In addition to giving a really gripping account of how these ballsy little geeks managed to get past the Vegas system (Think the Rain Main blackjack sequence times about 10), the author also gives some really cool backstory into the history of "old" Vegas and "new" Vegas (the security, the mob, the corporations, the back rooms, the strippers, the private investigation firms) in order to show you what these guys were truly up against.
I have to admit, I was riveted, although the writing itself leaves something to be desired.
My husband's aunt used to be a dealer in Atlantic City so I've heard a lot of stories from her, but this book really opened my eyes to the gambling industry.
The book made me NOT want to gamble and pretty much squelched what miniscule desire I had to visit Vegas anyway.
And then to make more money from the writing (and I use this word loosely) of a book.
Though I have to admit I did find myself rooting for them and I have absolutely no sympathy for the gaming industry.
Real page turner. Thought they were gonna get nailed but they beat the system although had a few dust ups. Wonderful description of Vegas and other casino sites. Worth your time.

Excellent book, read whilst chilling by the pool on holiday and was a really enjoyable read.
Backed by “shady investors” that they supposedly never met, the team used a decades-old method of card counting (a modified version of “hi-lo,” based on the number of high cards left in the deck) and some interesting hand signals to collectively rake in the millions.This is Mezrich’s first non-fiction book, and it shows; oh does it ever show.
In sum, there might be an interesting story here, but this book, while admittedly fun to read, with its flat drama and unsympathetic characters (aw, poor Kevin, making a great living at a trading firm, trying to “get out” of the humdrum existence of the MIT grad with the house and two cars...
The book version is tamed which is expected because it is based on actual events while the movie was exaggerated for cinematic event.I am definitely not into gambling except when I was in high school and all of us in the family used to play dugtugan and 45 or bantukan when we were in the barrio in Lipuso and we just had nothing to do at night or when the sun was too hot to go and farm.
I don't think I will have the change to do card counting and I definitely have no patience to memorize those cards.
The book is well written, but what is irritating is that it holds itself out as a non-fiction, but after reading about the book online, it appears the book is far more fiction then non-fiction.
The person that the book is centered around has apparently admitted several key scenes from the book didn't happen, and that many other scenes were similarly fabricated.
Also, because many of the people in the book are composites of two or more people, it makes me wonder what, if anything, from the book is actually accurate.
Having said that, the book is well written, and was a page turner.
Sometimes, the fact that a book is based on something that actually happened adds a bit more value to my read.
This is a book that is based on the actual stories of the MIT blackjack team.
The book moves back and forth between the events of the MIT team and the author's present day research.
When I started the book, all I wanted was to play blackjack and I did too.
But when I was done with the book, the harsh reality hit my face - You're always a loser eventually, when it comes to Casinos.
I guess the main thing I liked about this book was the Cinderella-like story of a bunch of college kids making beaucoup bucks off the casinos - more or less legally.
The story doesn't really build to any kind of climatic ending, though, and the author's interludes - especially the one where he interviews a stripper while she gives him a lap dance - seem almost like "filler" material.
Still, the story of how these groups organized and their tactics for winning are pretty amazing and worth the read.
Expect a healthy dose of swearing whenever the college kids are directly quoted.
This book has reaffirmed how not into gambling I am. I've never been to Vegas, but I get nervous playing penny slots in Atlantic City so the whole world just freaks me out. But this story is so incredible. So seemingly impossible. And yet believable. These kids are smarter than me, and they're bolder than me. This book is worth reading, and it will make you see the world of Vegas in a whole new way.
Interesting story, pedestrian writing. The author doesn't engage any potential themes, just seems content telling the story in a faux-suspenseful, overly sentimental way, and is self-indulgent in including himself in the narrative. It reads like a halfway decent high school report. Nonfiction can be much more skillfully done than this.
This is a really simple read, but good when you're looking for something quick (like a 2 hour plane ride). It kept me interested(except the parts where they talk about card counting strategy) and I didn't really want it to end. It might not have been as good if it wasn't the first book I read in months, but it sure did serve it's purpose!
The book is full of intense and interesting scenes with at one point the card counting team making over $150,000 a night.
The author did do a good job at conveying the basic card counting strategy used by the students." attached to a two star review.
I disagree that the writing is a "complete hack job" as the author effectively conveys the intensity of the situations in the book leaving the reader on the edge of their seats.
Other important aspects of the book is the journey the team went through and the personal struggles of Kevin.I would recommend this book if you are fascinated with card counting and/or love scenes with high intensity.
The only thing I can appreciate was the little essay on card counting that Kevin Lewis provided (or should I say Jeffrey Ma).It’s a trap that all nonfiction books fall into.
But tell a few “white lies” and you risk huge repercussions of fabricating what is supposed to be “nonfiction”.I realize that there was a disclaimer saying that “some” events were fabricated to make the story flow better, but putting in extremes like robberies, private corporations with shady methods, and fake characters, it almost feels like lying.
I would much rather read a story with more truth in it.
Genius characters but no genius story lines
It couldn't keep me interested which is why it took me a month to read it off and on. The last 50 pages went a little faster. Just shows genius doesn't necessarily come with good judgement.
Interesting and intriguing. Keeps your focus.
I have to agree with Petra because I felt that the team thought long and hard about a way they can gamble legally and they succeeded.
I feel the casinos were just angry that they were losing so much money and that is why they wanted to stop Kevin and his crew.
I highly agree with Greg because even though the author did use some harsh language, it was needed to help you visualize the book better and help you feel what the characters are feeling better.
When just a small blackjack club turns out to be a ring of card savants with a system for playing large and winning big!Personally, I believe that the book was very well written.
I thought that the author portrayed each character in a believable way.
Some readers believed that the large use of swear words in the book was a weakness, but I think the opposite.
I think that the author was trying to show the different feelings of the characters by trying to help the reader connect.
A strength that I found in the book is the ability the author has to connect you with one of the characters.
"Bringing Down the House" is a fictional work inspired by real life events.
As a fictional work it is a fast read and does hold one's interest.
I know nothing about cards, nor gambling, but was intrigued by the premise that a bunch of brilliant students from MIT could use mathematical theories of probability to beat the "house" at Blackjack.
Mezrich does succeed in conveying how seductive the gambling world can be, particularly if you are a geeky MIT engineer.
The lights, the danger, the money and the thrill induce a drug-like high into these young students and becomes an itch needing continual scratching.
