https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/248470.River_Secrets
4.5*I really love this series, but this was my least favourite. I found it to be more predictable and a bit slower, especially following the amazingness that was "Enna Burning." But, I love Razo and he was a pleasure to follow!
This is possibly my favorite of Shannon Hale's books so far (although it is hard to choose). The plot was perhaps slightly more predictable (just slightly), but Razo's character is absolutely hilarious! I love how Hale takes time to add in little funny or observant tidbits that aren't necessarily pertinent to the plot, but that add depth to the characters. This is definitely a worthwhile read (but read Goose Girl and Enna Burning first.)
Enna and Finn accompany him in the group, and they're having trouble because apparently Enna's just watched "Ten Things I Hate About You" and is wishing for a Heath Ledger-esque show of foolishness and Big Declaration of Love (like singing and dancing on the bleachers to "Can't Take My Eyes Off of You" in front of the entire soccer and track teams while he dodges campus police.) So anyway, pretty darn predictable in that lonely Razo will find a great girl, turn out to be crucial to the success of the mission, and I'll be darned, he even grew a few inches to boot.
I was really excited about this one since it had Razo as the main character.
He is the funniest character of the series and I'm so glad he got to shine in his own book.
Here is a quick run down of the book: Razo and the other soldiers of Bayern's Own must go to Tira to help along with the peace that is trying to be formed.
I don't want to give too much away, but suffice to say that Razo's talents get to be displayed and there are interesting subplots as well dealing with Finn and Enna (who are seen a good deal in this book).
I really love this series.
It's not too terribly heavy so it's a great fantasy to jump into after a long day with just the right amount of politics, romance, and adventure.
Surprisingly, I like that it switches to a completely different narrator each book (tbh it reminds me of the Lunar Chronicles) and I love seeing how the different plot lines and characters mesh together to create this rich world and awesome cast of characters.
I really liked Razo because of how friendly, smart, and innocent he was and I hope there are still plenty of great Razo moments in  Forest Born  11+
Such a happy ending! I loved this book series!
I enjoyed this one much more than the previous book, which wasn't bad either. This one felt more wholesome I suppose, and I really enjoyed reading about Razo and watching him grow up and mature. He gets a really good, interesting story and a cute romance too. Enna and Finn are there as background characters, although we see little of Geric and Isi. I wonder who's story we get to see next?A really awesome YA series. Released recently with new covers, so easy enough to find to buy. Five stars!
=DIf The Goose Girl took on a fairytale vibe and Enna Burning a dark tone, then River Secrets takes a happy, light, mysterious tone.So I'll quickly get into why I took a 0.5 stars from my rating.
Basically, the previous two books had the characters learn how to speak the languages of different elements.
(Burning people with fire.
Someone trying to use poison.Who Would I Recommend This Book To:Those who first read the The Goose Girl and Enna Burning.Those who like more magical elements that aren't too magical-like and are believable.
He's always so funny and a trustworthy friend.Quick overview: Razo is chosen to join an elite mission to escort the ambassador to Tira.
To make sure the Bayern soldiers return home and possibly avoid another war, Razo is going to have to use his talents to figure out who is trying to frame Bayern for the burnings before the assembly votes on whether to start the war again.
I know my overview's a little scratchy, but if you've read the other two books it doesn't really matter.
You already know how great these books are.
A great book!!
I can't justify 5 stars because then it would be in competition with some of my favorite books of all time, and it's not QUITE there.
I think this book is an excellent example of character development.
I had no idea I loved Razo as much as I do.
In previous books, he was just the comic relief.
Who knew Bettin broke his heart as badly as she did?
Who knew he had a photographic memory?
And by the end of the book, I loved him even more for the man he'd become.
I love her!
He falls in love with a girl who has an ability to speak with water, but he himself does not have an ability.I like though, that while the other books are about a person discovering a strength, an ability, a power that they have, this book has the same basic theme, even though our main character does not have an ability.Razo is a self-proclaimed screw-up.
And that is really the main theme of all these books: discovering that you are special and full of worth, no matter if you have a supernatural power or not.As always, the book is well-written, the characters are complex and endearing, the plot moves along with wonderful suspense and action.
I would have to call this Shannon's worst work I've read.
The storyline was boring and dragged a lot.
The entire first half of the book was devoted to Razo's feeling bad for himself and whining a lot.
"I'm so short.
I suck at everything.
Nobody likes me.
My girlfriend married someone else.
I am no good at swordplay.
Woe is me.
Finally, about 3/4 way into the book, the story started going somewhere.
Overall, it's an okay read if you have endless hours of boredom facing you.
I won't be reading it again.
Sorry Shannon, you have failed me.
Razo isn’t much good at anything.
He’s as short as the girls.
He isn’t handy with a sword.
And he always ends up in the thick of trouble.
It’s beyond him why the captain the guard would choose to appoint him for the delicate—and dangerous—mission into Tira.
To secure peace only a year after recent war.Naturally Razo is the first to discover a burned body.And then there’s the assassination attempts.And the girl who calls him a tree rat.All in all it’s just possible he should have stayed home.I loved Razo’s voice: his modesty, his self-deprecating humor, his ecstasy over small things.
Pretty much pure happiness. I mean, Razo. <3 <34.5 stars.
Complex and edge-of-your-seat tense as the Bayern folk try to work out a peace with enemies still traumatized by the secret fire weapon that worked such havoc on their soldiers.
Enna, the source of that burning, is with the delegation, working for peace, even when she knows it will mean her life if she is identified.
Razo the forest boy is the main character, a friend of the queen's brought to observe the success of the peace mission.
He is the one to discover someone in Tira is trying to hatch a plot to destroy the peace and re-start the war.
I've been blowing through these audiobooks, but I guess I finished this one too fast, because I can't listen to Forest Born until July 1st. I've maxed out the number of titles I'm allowed to borrow for the month. Whoops :/Right now, though, I am satisfied, because Razo is my favorite, and Dasha is my favorite, and Razo + Dasha are my favorite.Much love for this book <3
I absolutely LOVED Razo. He’s crazy, and his being short and untalented with the sword won him a title as a spy. I loved the book. The romance wasn’t bad, and I only caught one minor part that Shannon Hale didn’t have to include to make the story enjoyable.Great job!! Sadly, I only have one more to go.😊
I did enjoy The Goose Girl and Enna Burning a little more because the plots were more intriguing, but there are plenty of reasons to love River Secrets, too.First of all: Razo.
You can't help but see Razo as your own little brother, and feel so proud of him when the book is through.Another thing I loved, as I always do in Shannon Hale's books, is her world-building.
Her world gets bigger and bigger in each book, and in River Secrets you're more thoroughly introduced to the country of Tira.
Razo is the best! He is definitely my favorite character so far! His narrative is super funny and and yet he can still be serious and work as a spy. There was quite a bit of suggestive dialogue and content but I still really loved this book!
Either way, it's still an excellent read and a lovely addition to the series.This book focuses on Razo, a comical and humble character.
He's loyal as they come, but when he's sent on a dangerous mission to Tira, Bayern's long-standing enemy, to help pave a new peace, he questions his captain's choice.
There was very little romance, though Razo did think back to a lost love from his forest days a few times and a romance from the previous book continues, with nothing more than a kiss here or there.
I liked Razo in previous books, but I suspect that was because he only played a small part.
I know the similes and stuff were what made the writing so Bayern-ish in Enna Burning (I think it's a forest-born thing) but Razo used them TO DEATH.
There were some good lines, though, like, "Loafing is just a hobby of mine," or when Enna tells Razo, "You'd eat a plate and call it pleasantly crunchy." Oh, and I did like the descriptions of Ingridan!
It makes Enna's talents less special.All the Dasha stuff was annoying -- the is-she-good-is-she-bad stuff, I mean.
Oh oh oh oh I can scarcely believe my own good fortune.Besides very decidedly being my favorite YA author, Shannon Hale is a mastermind of the uncliche, well-written fantasy.
When I found out that this book was to be devoted entirely to him, I could scarcely contain my glee.In her own flowing, poetic, and beautiful way - Shannon Hale weaves yet another story that is sure to intrigue readers of all ages.Now that the war with Tira is over, Bayern seeks to reestablish good relations with it's neighboring countries.
You probably can guess what it is by reading the title but still, if I were you, I would read this spectacular book for the sensation of Shannon Hale’s words intoxicating your mind with images of Dasha’s hair, as orange as an open flames ends or the power of fighting fire with fire.
The one reason I enjoy Hale’s books is because her words float into my mind and take their places, all the while creating a beautiful and perfect illustration that are so great that I see them instead of the black words on the plain, white page.
This book is a whodunnit wrapped in layers of fantasy and comedy, and it is just such an enjoyable read.
Razo makes for a fantastic narrator.This is the best kind of whodunnit, because there are four main questions instead of just the who?
I spent a good portion of the book wracking my brains, and could not come up with an answer.
I did figure it out, roughly fifteen pages ahead of Razo - which is perfect, since I spent the whole book in suspense, but still got to feel clever in the end.I wonder, though, whether there is a missed opportunity here.
It follows The Goose Girl and Enna Burning and focuses on one of readers’ (and the author’s) favorite characters from these books, Razo of the forest.In the previous books, Razo’s friend Isi, who has wind magic, became queen of Bayern and his friend Enna, who has fire magic, helped Bayern win a battle with Tira.
Now Bayern and Tira are swapping ambassadors and opening diplomatic relations.
The people of Bayern are not popular in Tira because of what Enna, the fire mage, did to their army.
Enna isn’t happy about her role in the battle, either, so she asks to go to Tira with the ambassador, hoping to redeem herself by doing something constructive instead of destructive with her magic.Read More: http://www.fantasyliterature.com/revi...
I like this series. My only complaint is I wish there was more description. I love the way shannon hale writes and I look forward to the next one. I like that the strong characters are mainly girls. Wahoo!!
I liked it quite a bit. Must re read and give proper review.
Not as good as all her other books but it was good.
Another great tale by Shannon Hale and amazing narration by the Full Cast Audio team!
This is the third book in The Books of Bayern series, and follows Razo (one of the side characters) on his own journey of self discovery and love.
Shannon Hale has an amazing way of writing fantastic characters.
I also loved that some of the important characters from the previous books played a role in this story but that this book was a whole unique story all on it's own.
A quick confession about my rating: if River of Secrets hadn’t come after Enna Burning I probably wouldn’t have enjoyed this one as much as the first two books in this series.Razo from The Goose Girl was probably one of my favorite characters from the book and I felt a little bad when we didn’t see a little more of him in Enna Burning.
Surprisingly I didn’t expect Razo’s character development to be done as well as it was.That said, I didn’t enjoy the plot as much as I wanted to.
