https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/193749.When_the_Air_Hits_Your_Brain
This is the sort of book you think of long after you've finished.
Her teenage, indigent parents were told to go away and have another child as this one wouldn't leave hospital and wouldn't live long.
Some months after her death her parents who had never been back to visit hersent a statue of a laughing girl to the hospital with a little plaque in memory of their daughterThe author wasn't concerned about too many of the technicalities of brain surgery although there is enough science to make it instructive, but about the effects on the patient, for better, or quite often for worse.
I learned about radio surgery--spine surgery- ( which are are growing in this country) - more specifics within the operating rooms - functional Nero surgery- electrical stimulating devices- recent advances - and new advances of surgery for Parkinson's disease.
NOTE: KGO - SF Bay Area radio host - Ron Owens - had brain surgery for Parkisons disease.
They put an electrical stimulator inside his brain to help control symptoms such as shaking - and slowing down the progression of the disease itself.
He shared with his viewers on the radio - before - during - and after his brain surgery.
Great success story.
The story has both great humor and pathos and I haven't both cried and laughed in the same sitting like I did with this book in as long as I can remember.
If the patient isn't dead, you can always make him worse if you try hard enough.4.
One look at the patient is better than a thousand phone calls from the nurse.5.
Operating on the wrong patient or doing the wrong side of the body makes for a very bad day--always ask the patient what side their pain is on, which leg hurts, which hand is numb.A great book and one I will certainly read again.
Failure instructs better than successWhen does compassion stop being useful to a dying patient.
Why neurosurgeons look down their noses at internists and vice versa.The case studies involving infant neurosurgery – specifically the story of Rebecca – and the story of Sarah the pregnant cancer patient was fascinating and utterly heart breaking at the same timeAs a side note, I am pretty sure that the writers of Grey’s Anatomy liberally “borrowed” some of the stories in this book.Recommended for anyone who has a love for medical memoirs.
I truly enjoyed this book. I liked the author's voice and style. I liked his narrative, and I liked his questioning. It's a great read, and an informative one. Oh, and I really like his descriptions. Like this one:“The soul’s tapestry lies woven in the brain’s nerve threads. Delicate, inviolate, the brain floats serenely in a bone vault like the crown jewel of biology. What motivated the vast leap in intellectual horsepower between chimp and man? Between tree dweller and moon walker? Is the brain a gift from God, or simply the jackpot of a trillion rolls of DNA dice?”
Times have changed, neurosurgery has changed, but the basics are still there because our brains and nervous systems remain the same.It's a portrait of a young physician/surgeon as he develops his skills, makes errors, slowly but sadly adopts the attitude of many surgeons, that of surgical psychopath.
That designation simply means that he removes himself so far from the personality of the patient and his fears and emotions, and concentrates solely on the mechanics and outcomes of each of his procedures.There were moments in the book when, as a nurse, I flat out didn't like Dr. Vertosick.
'You don't have to be a brain surgeon', kaže anglo-saksonska poslovica, kad se govori o poslu koji ne zahtijeva značajne cerebralne sposobnosti. Ispostavlja se da je jedan od njih i posao neurokirurga. ne, ne traži se genijalnost, ali sigurna ruka, čelični živci i otporan želudac-definitivno. Autor nas u ovom djelu brutalno i bez imalo uljepšavanja provodi svojom specijalizacijom iz neurokirurgije, od samih početaka i gotovo slučajnog izbora sve do konačno teškos tečenog znanja neurokirurga. Kroz beznadežne slučajeve, i one druge. kroz suze, uspjehe i neuspjehe. ako ikog zanima kako medicinska profesija izgleda iznutra, knjigu svakako preporučujem.
Fascinating, but brief. Worth noting for current readers, this was first published in 1977. I don't know how much the science has progressed, but pretty sure, significantly. Still--this is one doctor's experience, and he tells his story with a respect for the patient and the profession. It was good to be reminded that there are doctors who regard their patients with compassion.
Here in the U.S., we generally believe all surgeons are arrogant SOB’s. Vertosick’s book is proof that not all surgeons fit that mold. If you like memoir’s with a medical focus, this one is worth reading.Full review at TheBibliophage.com
I’m both fascinated and disturbed by this subject. I guess it’s fascinatingly disturbing. But the stories in this memoir of the author’s early training as a neurosurgeon are compelling and memorable. And he comes off very likable and humble to me, which makes him all the more intelligent, right?Audible version is excellent.
This was yesterday's audible daily deal and I thought to myself "that sounds intersting" I am so glad I decided to buy it, this book was more than interesting, it was fucking amazing! I learned, I laughed, and I cried my fucking eyes out at work. This book is more than just a look at the life of a neurosurgion, it is a look at life itself. I am not in a medical profession and have never had any interest in medicine at all, but I can not recommend this book enough!
A wonderfully interesting read about the life of a neurosurgeon, and the various cases he had.It balances the human story and the science story perfectly, and I felt like I got a lot out of the book. Who knew cancerous cells basically reverted your cells back into the cells you had as a baby, before they matured?I'll definitely look into more books about neurosurgery!
Vertosick lets readers tag along as he moves from medical student to intern to resident and up the chain of command supervising others in a hospital setting.
Yes, his book provides interesting case studies full of technical detail.
It also lets us see how surgeons are all-too-human: skill isn't innate, it comes with practice; there's a bit of infighting between neurologists and neurosurgeons; everyone's sleep deprived; there are hazing rituals; most surgeons are arrogant; and nobody is perfect.
It's a harsh reality but one that everyone has to deal with at some point.
As a surgeon, he's confronted with the reality of death every day.
i'm not a expert with words.. so i cant find words to describe how great of a book this one was❤❤❤a must read book, not only for medical personnel but for allthanks dr Vertosick for sharing your experience with us 😊😊
i'm not a expert with words.. so i cant find words to describe how great of a book this one was❤️❤️❤️a must read book, not only for medical personnel but for allthanks dr Vertosick for sharing your experience with us 😊😊
“Failure instructs better than success.”   So basically, Vertosick fell into neurosurgery by accident.
Reading memoirs by neurosurgeons made me realize the strenuous and demanding nature of this medical speciality.
For starters, the brain is not like any other organ.
Sometimes these mistakes are permanent, which is a lesson Vertosick learned the hard way.
When Vertosick discussed his patients, I felt like I was right there in the surgical unit with them.
It was a fascinating read, but I think I went through it too quickly.
I need to sit down sometime to re-read it and take notes because Vertosick also is great at describing neuroanatomy and neurophysiology concepts.
Slightly reminiscent of "The House of God" (his Rules are just as funny as those in that book) but actually true, Vertosick describes incidents and episodes from his neurosurgical training which helped to shape him.
What he says is truly funny in places, but he also writes about his thoughts (on becoming a neurosurgical psychopath, for example) in an entertaining but serious way.
As the author himself says" This book is about the human aspects of disease, the human dimension of those who suffer from it, and the human dimension of those neophytes....who learn to treat it".
Yes. The rest of the "Rules"2/ The only minor operation is one that someone else is doing.
Incredible retelling of real cases experienced by the doctor during his neurosurgical residency.
They are filled with interesting and fascinating stories about patients with neurological disorders.
This book has some of that, interesting neurological patient histories, but it also adds in lots of the intense drama of the operating room.
The procedures are fascinating (one surgery to remove a pituitary tumor is done through the nose) and one slip of the knife can determine the difference between a patient walking out of the recovery room and ending up paralyzed and intubated, or perhaps simply losing the ability to communicate using language ever again.
You get a behind the scenes glimpse into the world of residency, told in a completely humble and honest way.
This doctor tells stories of his life as he goes through medical school and onto practicing as a neurosurgeon.
He talks about how much some patients affected him and gives the stories of successful surgeries as well as failures and how these events changed him.
He talks about the butterfly effect in his life.
He was late signing up for a college major and chose a path that led him to go go medical school.
The author is very aware of his own fallibility and does a great job telling the stories of his life.
The title is a little odd but the book is great.
Excellent account - for a lay reader - of what it's like to be a neurosurgeon in training.
Not as elegantly written, perhaps, as Henry Marsh's Do No Harm, but equally illuminating if not more so.
The detailed descriptions of operative procedures are stunningly good, and some of the case histories - e.g. the disaster of a ruptured aneurysm - read like nail-biting thrillers, often without happy outcomes.
When things go wrong neurological disasters tend to be truly disastrous.
One of the most interesting aspects of the book is the insights it gives into how surgeons deal with inevitable failures by turning into what he calls everyday 'surgical psychopaths'.
In high school, I stumbled upon this on a clearance shelf and after reading it decided I should focus on medical school, not vet school, like I had planned.
Many books written by doctors either dumb things down too much, assuming a reader is stupid, or are just plain dull, but this book was just right for me.
I was (and still am) in love with medical topics, but this book turned me on the to crazy world of neuroscience.
Total disclosure: my stint as a neuroscience major lasted only about three months in college.
Despite that, I'm still glad I found this book and the author got me hooked on the topics.

I spent my dark (or brilliant) training years in early 2000s. Although Dr Vertosick was trained many years ahead in other country, I could FULLY understand his mistakes, his agony, his complexes, and his triumph. Reading this book, I remembered the numerous days and nights in hospitals, confronted with helpless challenges, dying patients, and sleeplessness. Yes, it was great days of my life and it must be others' who wanna be a NEUROSURGEON.
I love the brain, so this was a great read to me. I really enjoyed Vertosick's writing style... very insightful and he was funny too. This book took you through his evolution from young intern to world-class neurosurgeon, and included many different patient cases. A great read for just about anyone.
Thoroughly enjoyed this. Just wish it had come with pictures/diagrams so I could better understand what he was describing. But as the author says, "its not about the technology, it isn't even really about the medicine. Its about the human aspect of the disease, the human dimension of those who suffer from it, and the human dimension of those neophytes, like me, who learn to treat it."
This book was fascinating. If you are averse to blood and oozing brain tissue you might not want to tackle it, but it really is unlike any book I've ever read before, and worth the read. As the author states in his postscript, the book is less about the technology of brain surgery than it is about the human aspect of the disease, the people who suffer from it, and those who learn to treat it.
This is one of those books that take you back. I am by no means a neurosurgeon but I am a doctor. This book helped me relive my own training and residency. Every doctor has stories but Dr. Vertosick is a master story teller. This book is sad, funny, reverent, hopeful and full of wisdom for anyone interested in the pathways of human travel.
I like a good, true medical story. Medicine is moving forward at a rapid pace. This story needs to be seen as a history. Just in my life nerosurgery went from 100% death to a more acceptable outcome.
Loved this. The right mix of medical detail and human interest. You get to know the author himself too. I listened on audio....very well narrated.
This book changed my life forever. When my husband and I first read it, he was in banking. Sixteen years later, he is a neurosurgeon. How's that for impact.
