https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3761.You_Only_Live_Twice
(B+) 77% | GoodNotes: James Bond, ninja tourist, prefers labor and vice simple and direct, but is sent to Japan: land of subtext and etiquette.
Entrusted in the hands of top Japanese agent Tiger Tanaka, Bond spends the majority of the book immersed in Japanese culture.
And, of course, because Blofield grows more evil by the page, I was silently cheering as 007 dueled his rival in true Japanese ninja style.You Only Live Twice is one of the few instances where I may have enjoyed the movie version slightly more than the book.
While I enjoyed seeing Bond in a different role as a foreign service officer and learning about a culture different than his own, I pined for the action of the big screen.
Nobody needs to be reminded that suave and sexy Sean Connery was its hero Bond, James Bond.“You only live twice:Once when you are bornAnd once when you look death in the face.”Bond composes the haiku in the novel, but it is actually by Basho, a Japanese poet.I thorougly enjoyed the book and found it to be the best of the three Bond novels I had read so far.Playboy magazine featured excerpts from Ian Fleming's "You Only Live Twice" in its May and June 1964 editions, having artwork by Daniel Schwartz.Towards the fag end of 1969, the film was released at a cinema hall in Calcutta.
“You only live twice:Once when you are bornAnd once when you look death in the face”Ian Fleming’s 12th Bond book is set in Japan and concludes his brilliant Blofeld trilogy.While the films use Blofeld and Spectre to a greater degree, Fleming’s Blofeld shows up in three books – Thunderball, On Her Majesty’s Secret Service and here.
First published in 1964, we see Fleming at the height of his considerable narrative powers, but tragically he only had a few months to live.Months after Blofeld killed Bond’s wife Tracy, Bond is a mess and M sends him East on an “impossible” mission.
But this is after all James Bond and our hero crashes headlong into more trouble than anyone expected.
However, as soon as James saunters out of M's office to kiss Moneypenny, it all goes downhill from there.JAPANIt's always dangerous when Bond leaves England to deal with "foreigners." In this book we have Japan.
Dr. Shatterhand has chosen Japan because of it's high rate of suicide, and has created this evil sanctuary for people to come and kill themselves, delighting in every death.Why?
(view spoiler)[Blofeld (hide spoiler)] has always been a little kooky but he's always had some kind of plan or reasoning behind his actions.This was a huge disappointment and also was stupid.Tanaka also somehow convinces Bond to go to the island with no gun.
Fleming's Bond books really take a dive after the-event-which-shall-not-be-named.
Forty-five years ago, there were very few Japanese men over 6ft tall.
Like every damn single man on that island wouldn't be all up in Bond's business from second one, seeing as how he nabbed the most eligible woman in Japan!So it sounds like 3.5 stars is ridiculously generous, doesn't it?
3) The Toyota 2000GT that Bond's first gal-pal drives:Über cool car.
I forgot to mention Nancy Sinatra's rendition of "You Only Live Twice", a syrupy ballad with a screechy violin hook that embeds itself in the brain extremely deeply.
Ever.Well, I have to admit that Fleming's attempts at dazzling his readers with bullshit are one of the reasons this series has been fun.
(Even more so if you have a patient reading buddy who doesn't mind sounding out some of the ideas with you.)On the flip side, what I haven't enjoyed so much are the plots of the Bond novels.
We meet Blofeld and Bunt again, but they are mere mad shadows of their characters from On Her Majesty's Secret Service.
This feather-bedding, this shirking of an honest day’s work, is sapping at ever-increasing speed the moral fibre of the British.”The reason that international terrorist organisation SPECTRE replaced Russian Spy body SMERSH as James Bond’s main villain was, that as the Fifties progressed, it became increasingly ludicrous to suggest that Britain was at the forefront of the anti-Soviet fight.
That’s one Swinging Sixties icon taking a swing at another, but it does sound like the more 1950’s Bond of the book.
In short this is a novel in which Bond is a lot like the country he represents (or Fleming’s perception of it anyway).
"I’ve found that one must try and teach people that there’s no top limit to disaster – that, so long as breath remains in your body, you’ve got to accept the miseries of life.
They are part of the human condition."- Ian Fleming, You Only Live TwiceIan Fleming took James Bond off the interstate of his more traditional espionage novels with the last couple books.
You Only Live Twice is Fleming putting James back into the "game".
The settting for most of this novel is Japan.
Bond is hunting (for the Japanese) Dr. Guntram Shatterhand, who turns out to be Ernst Stavro Blofeld, the head of SPECTRE.
James Bond's twelfth adventure takes him to Japan, but this is not really a novel involving the usual gunplay & gambling.
Fleming creates an excellent picture of a culture far removed from our own & we are introduced to some of his greatest characters.
Despite the story revolving considerably around death there is a surprising amount of humour for a Fleming novel.
Having read the story quite a few times before I can also recommend two excellent audio versions, an abridged one read by Richard E Grant & an unabridged one read by Martin Jarvis.
The two certainly do not have a lot in common.For good measure, the original trailer.One word about the movie that makes it more awesome than the book: The screenplay was written by my beloved Roald Dahl.
I'm not sure what to say about that, other than it's sort of interesting that Bond "dies" in both the book and the movie, though at different parts in their stories and under different circumstances.
Anyway, the deaths sort of seem profound now that I know Fleming died a few months after the publication of the book.Seriously, it was like they threw out the book entirely and just let Dahl go bug-nuts crazy with his own story.
(The posthumous 007 novel "The Man With the Golden Gun" is an essentially unfinished first draft, lacking the rich detail that Fleming usually spent months adding after he got his story down on paper.) The concluding book in what has become known as The Blofeld Trilogy (started in 1961's "Thunderball," in which Bond and archvillain Ernst Stavro Blofeld never meet, and picked up in 1963's "On Her Majesty's Secret Service"), it seems to have divided fans and critics alike, primarily due to the travelogue nature of the novel's initial 2/3, and the fact that the main "action" is largely confined to the final 40 pages.
I thought there was definitely an element of "I am so sick of writing these books" in this one.
For example, "You want me to begin with Bond winning some sort of gambling game like in most of the other books?
Fuck you!" and "You want a death trap?
Okay, how about having Bond's testicles dangle over a LIVE ACTIVE VOLCANIC GEYSER!
Go to hell!" and "You want the scene where Bond instantly masters some skill that other people take years to?
Okay - watch him LEARN TO WRITE HAIKU!
mildly inappropriate
I do not remember many of the long scenes with Tiger Tanaka, which either were not in the issue(s) I had, or which were mercifully left on the cutting room floor.In this, the third of Fleming's SPECTRE novels, James Bond catches up with Ernst Stavro Blofeld and his infamous consort Irma Blunt at a Japanese castle and blows them to kingdom come.
(We shall see!)The love interest in You Only Live Twice is the delectable Kissy Suzuki, who makes her living diving nude for abalone.
The last of the Blofeld trilogy and also the last Bond novel to be published in Fleming's lifetime.
Bond's career is falling apart after the murder of his wife in the previous novel.
M revokes his 00 status and assigns him to the diplomatic branch, sending him on a seemingly impossible mission to Japan, to negotiate with the head of their secret service.Much like the end of "From Russia With Love", where Bond is supposedly fatally poisoned.
This novel also builds up to the already-revealed-on-the-cover missing, presumed dead, status of Bond at the end of this novel.
Since I have been wanting to read Bond books, I figured why not.Shortly into the reading, my friend asked me what I thought of Vance's performance.
Vance has definitely earned a place on my list of favourite audiobook narrators.This is the twelfth Bond book, taking place shortly after the violent death of Bond's wife of only a few hours.
This leads Bond to Japan and a friendship with Tiger Tanaka.This is the last Bond book published by Ian Fleming in his life time, and it differs significantly from the film.
Bond's mission changes significantly when Tanaka asks him to deal with the "Castle of Death" that has been built on a Japanese island.
Most of the book is taken up with; first, an extended sequence where Bond and the head of the Japanese Secret Service - the inevitably inscrutable Tiger Tanaka - travel around Japan arguing over the merits of Nihon v Old Blighty; and, second, a lengthy sequence where Bond hides out in a Japanese fishing village and falls in love with one of the locals, who just *happens* to be movie star gorgeous and speaks perfect English.
Yes, Fleming overdoes the "fish out of water in Japan" routine, with Tiger Tanaka endlessly chiding Bond for failing some point of protocol.
However, I was quite disappointed that there was basically no action until the final fifth of the book and not once did he punch anyone in the face (I R DISAPPOINT).It's obvious from the book that Ian Fleming had quite a good understanding of Japanese culture and wrote about in a very sympathetic way considering the time when the book was written.However the blurb on the back should have read: "Boorish, washed up Western spy goes on a supposedly impossible mission but spends most of the time looking at tautening Japanese breasts and insulting his hosts before strangling Blofeld in his volcano lair".Is that a spoiler?
I'll start from the beginning of the series and find out.
This Bond novel is arguably the best in the Fleming series.
Not only is it an excellent spy and revenge story, it's also a chilling account of the human condition in post-war Japan.
As a result the suicide elements in the book are very emotional; all of this in concurrence with Bond's own emotions, having just lost his wife, and now given a chance for revenge.
You Only Live Twice was supposed to be Fleming's last Bond novel yet (unfortunately) was not.
Interesting that one of Fleming's best books became one of the worst Bond movies.
4.5 StarsI enjoyed this one mostly due to it's Japanese setting.
The piranha filled lake was a nice touch but I'd like to have seen more of the snakes, spiders and scorpions.
I also liked how much of the novel came across as an almost tranquil tale of life in a Japanese fishing village, quite a change from the usual bustle of Europe Bond finds himself lost in.
Overall one of the better Bond novels, although given it's unusual nature I can see how it may be polarizing to some of the more action oriented fans.
It's not even impressive, there is nothing clandestine going on, no secret laboratories designing a poison that would destroy life in the Pacific, or something.
This is going too far) Thank goodness, they're both finally dead.If I hadn't read the last 10 pages of the book, I would have given it two stars, since what I have written above is the impression I'd got by that point.The last star is taken away by Bond's cliffhangerish amnesia in the end.
A life-threatening pregnancy from a secret lover?This novel is too ugly to live.
Bond who has been learning to act and look Japanese (there is talk of makeup, but apparently something else took place as having lost his memory I assume he won't know to put the makeup on everyday).
Kissy gets pregnant and is planning to tell Bond about it at "the right time" hoping he will marry her.
The book ends with Bond wondering about his memory (having seen a Russian city mentioned in a newspaper he finds it familiar).
Why do people review films on a book site?
What the....Anyway, this is far from being the best Bond book.
He goes to Japan, and in exchange for the Japanese offering the British intelligence material, Bond has to kill a foreigner who has built a garden full of deadly plants and other hazards that attract lots of people to commit suicide.A reasonable plot line, then, so what's wrong with it?
Very little action, and very few dilemmas for Bond to try and get out of.
Reminds me of the last few Sharpe novels where the formula lacked a little something.
Set in Japan and written with knowledgeable details regarding essential do’s and don’ts as advised by Tiger Tanaka, Head of the Japanese Secret Service, to Bondo-san, that is, James Bond before pursuing his heroic mission, the fiction’s title “You Only Live Twice” has since been mysterious to me from its 1967 movie title. I mean its translated meaning is something philosophical, its context required for more understanding. In fact, it’s taken from the first line of a 17-syllable haiku by Basho, the most famous Japanese poet (1644-1694) in the Edo period. (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matsuo_...)
You Only Live Twice (1964) by Ian Fleming was published some eleven years after his first James Bond book, Casino Royale, and five months before Fleming would die on August 12, 1964.
In You Only Live Twice, many chapters are dedicated to great expositions inserted into dialogue, often by Bond's Japanese contact Tiger Tanaka, on the Japanese way of life, including honor, suicide, samurais, and the plot of the story--this mysterious ''Collector of Death''.
It is as though Fleming is attempting to write Bond's final love story, but pulls back the reins suddenly to dispose of Blofeld in a matter of a few pages and to return back to Kuro Island to be with Kissy.
I gave up twice before finally reading this in whole.
Coming of the high notes of Thunderball and On Her Majesty's Secret Service in the "Blofeld Trilogy" this hits rock bottom.
The only thing compelling about this is Bond's ally Henderson.
No characters are interesting - who does nothing but being lead to the finale the entire book whilst sobbing over his past wife Theresa.
Finally, Blofeld's plan is just bizar and not even Ian Fleming can take it this unrealisticly far.
I would highly recommend you skip this and read literally any other original James Bond novel.
Easily the worst of Fleming's "Blofeld Trilogy." After the death of his wife Tracy, James Bond is distracted at the office, bungling missions, and leaving work to sit in silent reflection.
Tiger Tanaka, the head of Japanese Intelligence, agrees to let Bond have it in return for a favor: Bond must infiltrate a nearby island, gain access to the castle within and kill Dr. Shatterhead, a madman who is coaxing Japanese citizens to come to his island and commit suicide.As a follow-up to the events in the excellent On Her Majesty's Secret Service, You Only Live Twice is very disappointing.
He is a shattered character who has lost his wife eight months earlier and is unsure who or what he’s fighting for.The book itself starts strongly and declines as the story progresses.
The novel deals on a personal level with the change in Bond from a depressed man in mourning, to a man of action bent on revenge, to an amnesiac living as a fisherman.
Bond realises that Shatterhand is Ernst Stavro Blofeld (making his third appearance) and sets out on a revenge mission to kill him and his wife, Irma Bunt.The last 40 or so pages contain all the action.
Where the novel takes him from there distinctly follows the vulnerable and core personality of Bond, and undoubtedly is this adventure of Commander James Bond the most personal of kinds.This book being set in Japan, there's some interesting diversity in imagery and comfort that other Bond novels don't have.
Bond is very much a Western person, and this is something that Fleming maintains; Bond isn't at home in the East, isn't necessarily all that comfortable, interested, or persuaded by the customs, and this creates a very friendly, intimate portrayal of James Bond.
