https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46722.The_Coming_Plague
A couple weeks after I read this wonderful book (years ago) I was walking across the Brooklyn Bridge and saw a woman that looked just like the jacket photo of Laurie Garrett.
I stopped and asked "Are you Laurie Garrett?" And, of course, she was.
I attended a reading she gave a few years later when she was releasing a book on the public health system, and afterwards I wanted to get her to sign my copy--but I was afraid she might remember me.
And I was also afraid she wouldn't.
Ebola's back. Want to know how it all started? Read this book. If you're not terrified by the time you're done, you're not paying attention or you have far too much faith in the strength of man versus microbes. I read this for a graduate-level history class on "Ecology, Disease, and Population". Needless to say, we spent quite a bit of time studying how disease has shaped human history.
Even if the book is no longer new, it still teaches a lot.
The book is directed toward serious readers who want the complete history of the new plagues that have confronted us in the last century, think the Bolivian hemorrhagic fever, the Marbug virus, Yellow fever, the Brazilian meningitis epidemic, Lassa fever, Ebola, swine flu, Legionnaires’ disease, sexually transmitted diseases and injecting drug users, AIDS, toxic shock syndrome and what can be done to stop this trend.
I am no hypochondriac; I tend to treat pains with nonchalance in fact, but when you read this book you start worrying.
But the bacteria that causes Legionnaires' disease probably killed thousands more people in the years after air conditioning systems were invented, and these deaths were attributed to other causes.)Garrett's book is a masterpiece of reporting and synthesis that, with the exception of chunks here and there, reads like a novel.
Just one tiny example of her thoroughness is a footnote in which she lists every major influenza pandemic since the year 1173, along with the probable origin, geographical scope, and estimated mortality of each.
although it's now somewhat out of date, this remains far and away the most comprehensive and interesting book about diseases i've read. what sets this apart from the rest of the disease books on my shelf is the sheer amount of ground covered and how well it's presented. it doesn't particularly seem like it would be a fast read, yet it is.
This is my kind of horror book.
I think it scared me more than just about any other book I’ve ever read, but I loved it.
I appreciated the author’s skillful and entertaining story telling and admired her scientific accuracy.I can’t vouch that the information is current; I read this when it was first published.
I’d continue to recommend this to anyone who’s interested in medicine, disease, and human health.I enjoyed this book so much that when Laurie Garrett was speaking in my city, I went to hear her; she’s very personable and knowledgeable.
This book terrified me.If you think globalization and urbanization in distant places have had no ill effect on the quality of life on this planet, think again.
I encourage everyone to buy several copies and send one to each of your representatives: local, state, and federal.This copy will go to some government official, as soon as I figure out where it might do the best good.(BTW, this edition was published in 1994.
I wonder if a revised and updated edition is available.
Such a revision would more than likely be even more frightening.)
I mean, the answer to that is probably not because, frankly, it's kind of terrifying.Let me put that a different way.Want to hear actual facts and research about Ebola instead of news bites?The Coming Plague was easily the best thing I read in library school.
Just examine that name for a second and guess how much reading a library school student does.
Then have a snack because I've been ordering you around a lot here and I feel bad about that, so please, enjoy.Author Laurie Garrett also wrote this great post, "5 Myths About Ebola" that you should probably check out: http://www.newsday.com/opinion/five-m...Okay, full disclosure, this is a long book.
pretty good. certainly thorough. "epidemic" is tossed around pretty liberally -- if a fever burns out a south american village, does it make a sound? poor editing, with numerous phrases and sentences repeated verbatim and certain acronyms expanded not at all, on late use, or multiple times. i'd like to have seen more on the virology and suppression of HIV and fewer tedious pages of stats and prediction histories. worth reading, though.
This is probably one of the most informative books I've ever read. Laurie Garrett's knowledge of public health issues, coupled with her keen ability to write in Lay Terms-- makes this somewhat dry (but necessary) information a whole lot more palatable. It's been 11 years since I originally read it, so time for another read.
I read this when it came out -- and thought it was brilliant. It seems not to have aged much, judging by recent reviews.
This is an amazing book. Garret gives an overview of all the nastiest diseases on the horizon: Ebola, Marburg...her central point, that expanding human territory is likely to increase contact with animal reservoirs, and that sooner or later, something is going to develop that is both deadly and swiftly spread.Come to think of it, I'd love to read an updated edition.
Laurie Garrett's book The Coming Plague: Newly Emerging Diseases in a World Out of Balance is nearly 20 years old but it offers very interesting background information about the first round of Ebola in Africa, plus important discussion of how diseases develop and spread.
In her trenchant piece Foreign Policy published Oct. 6, 2014, dhe writes: "First, a rapid point-of-care diagnostic that can find Ebola virus in a single droplet of blood must be developed.
I would never have thought that I'd spend entire days reading an 800-page book about diseases...but I did, because Laurie Garrett is one of those rare scientists who can write captivating sentences.
This book chronicles both the emergence of, and response to, historically important deadly diseases and the role of the CDC, other government agencies, and nasty scientist political maneuvering in the attempts to contain said diseases.
I also like this book because it's evidence in favor of my belief that humans will never really "win" in our struggle to triumph over nature.
Personally, I find that comforting...but if it freaks you out, this is probably not the book for you.
A terrifying and humbling look at the manner in which human behavior is serving to intensify, spread and otherwise benefit viral and bacterial agents.
Everything from anti-immunization efforts, prostitution, non-sterile hospital equipment, re-use of syringes, global warming, refugees, global animal trade, increased UV radiation, pollution...
all make the world more hospitable to microbes, and less hospitable to humans.
In an age when the most wealthy nation in the world can't agree to give health care to it's own citizens, those living in the developing world are left on their own.
And with global travel, disease can and does spread rapidly.
This is the best book you can read about disease, and it was the best thing I read in library school.
Seriously, all of library school.
You can just imagine how many books you have to read for something called "library school."Probably a more important read than ever, the Coming Plague talks quite a bit about Ebola, for one, and the different methods by which diseases can be fought, how difficult it is to eradicate a disease, and how often politics and science can't get on the same page.Don't look at the number of pages.
Just pick it up and start.
My husband got this one for me when he was TDY to Boston years ago. It is right up my alley in what I like to read. I would like to have been a microbiologist. If you are also interested in microbes you will enjoy this book.
Written by a UCSC graduate, this book covers all of the many ways our actions contribute to the spread of disease vectors. Fascinating, scary and informative.
The best portions on this book are following the disease detectives from the CDC and other organizations as they investigated real-world outbreaks in the field.
In this respect, the book was similar to Beating Back the Devil: On the Front Lines with the Disease Detectives of the Epidemic Intelligence Service, and to a lesser extent The Hot Zone: A Terrifying True Story, and The Demon in the Freezer.
This is not a bad thing, as it was still very readable and not overly technical.Where the book did drag was some sections on disease outbreaks, especially where it go too much in to statistics.
Her point does come to a compelling conclusion at the end - we need better infrastructure to prevent disease, particularly after the gutting of the social safety net in the 80s and 90s - but it could have been said in far few pages, with half as many case studies.The argument maybe suffered in my eyes because of how little convincing I needed that we less solve problems than change old ones to new ones - antibiotics just creating new germs, antimalarials creating different types of disease, new plagues shamed the same old way - and so someone else might need this much convincing.
I really wanted to like this book, and indeed, right up until I casually fact-checked a shocking number for an article I was writing, I was enjoying the depth of information about epidemiology.
I'm a microbiology student who has been fascinated with parasitology and infectious disease for a very long time, so this seemed like it was right up my alley.
And then I tripped over her facts - or rather, falsehoods.
Wow… that's a horrifying number.
There were about 250,000 people living in NYC that summer, and 3215 of them succumbed to the disease.
I read this book when it first came out and I was working in a biological chemical factory.
This really hit home to me.
We were in a way already dealing with some of the issues mentioned in the book.
My job title at the time (my tongue-in-cheek title) was mad cow queen.
You have to wonder what people who don't want universal health care are thinking.
With so many people out of work and losing their health insurance, do we really want them getting sick and passing the pandemic on to the rest of us.
This book truly is amazing and one of the most eye-opening books I have ever read. It explores every aspect of post Word War II diseases and their effects on humanity from a political, economical, and behavioral standpoint. While this is not a fast or easy read (I had a hard time getting through the last few chapters) it is well worth your time. Exploding with information. Fascinating.
The title puts me off a little, because it sounds like it will be a doomsday alarmist proclamation about how we are creating and ignoring new diseases, and that new diseases are somehow "winning" the evolutionary "war". But in essence, it is a thorough look at how and why "new" diseases emerge and the fight that goes on against new and old diseases every day.
Mocna rzecz. Bardzo mocna. Tego się nie da czytać jednym ciągiem, bo za bardzo dołuje. Przebija wszystkie thrillery czy inne postapo. A co gorsza - to nie jest fikcja, to literatura faktu. Podziwiam mrówczą pracę autorki. No a podsumowanie jest proste: nie należy pytać, czy wystąpi pandemia, pytać można tylko: kiedy.Czy damy radę wszystko przewidzieć i przygotować się. Nie, nie ma szans.
Bwahahahaha. I'll write a review for this one of these days. Read this in high school and it's remained on my shelves since. Recommended for people who think drowning in your own blood is strangely intriguing.Don't read this if you're prone to hypochondria. Or have a tendency to google your symptoms.Hemorrhagic fevers are awesome.
Nothing matters because we're all gonna die!!!!!!!
Almost 20 years later, the FDA still refuses to restrict antibiotics and livestock feed.
First, I want to focus on what I liked about Garrett's dense and detailed work.
These men and women are all but lost in today's world and Garrett truly emphasizes why their absence is a detriment to public health today.
As someone who dabbled in journalism, this severely rubbed me the wrong way.There was also the tone of desperation towards the end regarding to eminent "plague".
I realize it is the title of her book, but I don't think she needed to end on such a paranoid note.
I learned a great deal and plan to read more of Garrett's work.
Because of this, it often did not even feel like I was reading a book about the science and history of disease outbreaks and instead was reading a thriller novel, which shifted between different times, places, and people, but still kept a common thread of the same organizations, the same or similar diseases, and even some people who kept showing up over and over throughout the story.
I feel like this book fell a little short of its intended goal however; while she does a great job with scaring people, showing them what is wrong, and stirring them up to want to change things, she does not explain enough about what can be done.
