https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7244.The_Poisonwood_Bible
Wrong again, read Tom Hiney's "On the Missionary Trail" for a non-fiction perspective that documents ways in which many missionaries were actually upsetting the colonial balance by preparing native peoples for independence, tutoring leaders on negotiation with world powers, recording native history and cultural practices and transcribing their languages, ; see also Philips Jenkins' "The Next Christendom".https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...* Marriage is an oppressive institution that consumes women; they need to escape.
Clearly all Belgians, American, colonialists, businessmen, husbands/fathers, missionaries, and mothers (to a lesser extent) are to be found culpable in the downfall of the Congo, as if this type of situation has never occurred in history before.
I read this over a two day span in college when I was home for winter break. We had a power outage so I found the sunniest room in the house and read all day. Although I prefer Kingsolver's works about the American southwest, this remains one of the most fascinating books I have ever read.
But dead, some men matter more than others.”•	The butterfly effect: “The sting of a fly… can launch the end of the world.” And “Every life is different because you passed this way.”•	Nature, nurture, how landscape shapes peoples, despite their attempts to shape it.•	Sin, original sin (snakes), sins of the Father and consequences - for individuals, but also in terms of colonialism, reparations, freedom.•	Guilt, judgement and privilege, especially survivor guilt and white privilege.
There's plenty of goodreads reviewers who felt differently, but I found The Poisonwood Bible to be a very strong and very different piece of historical fiction. It's a slower story than I normally like, something you might want to consider before deciding whether to try this 600+ page exploration of colonialism, postcolonialism and postcolonial attitudes, but I very much enjoyed this incredibly detailed portrait of a family and a society set in the Belgian Congo of 1959. And I, unlike some othe
It's a slower story than I normally like, something you might want to consider before deciding whether to try this 600+ page exploration of colonialism, postcolonialism and postcolonial attitudes, but I very much enjoyed this incredibly detailed portrait of a family and a society set in the Belgian Congo of 1959.
I didn't really see this as a book about lessons or morals, I saw it as a close look at the reality of this time and the different way it can be perceived depending on your point of view.I like writers who explore without trying to impart a lesson, who lay out a canvas but let the reader draw their own conclusions from it.
The author had an agenda and she really didn't mind continually slapping us in the face with it.
But to equate one group of people with only one characteristic (American = greedy, capitalistic devil) and another group with the entirely opposite characteristic (African = naive, innocent angel) is not just a little prejudicial.
In fact, I would assume that the only evil African was Mobutu (who, I interpreted, was probably OK until corrupted by America) and the only really good American was Leah (since she ended up reviling the US).
For the person who most affected the major characters' lives, we end up knowing remarkably little about him, other than that he was a "despicable man".
5 epic, no wonder this book is so well-loved stars, to The Poisonwood Bible! ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ Review of the audio. 🎧 The Price family, including minister father, Nathan, mother, Orleanna, and four daughters, traveled to the Belgian Congo in the late 1950s to serve a Baptist mission. The mom and daughters are the narrators, and I enjoyed the audio narrator’s voices for each of the characters (even her southern accent wasn’t too off the mark!). I do have to warn for audio fans, there were so many charact
5 epic, no wonder this book is so well-loved stars, to The Poisonwood Bible!
The mom and daughters are the narrators, and I enjoyed the audio narrator’s voices for each of the characters (even her southern accent wasn’t too off the mark!).
I will most definitely be reading this book in the future, once I’ve forgotten a little.
The book was epic in proportions because it covered this entire family over a long period of time, and not a stone was left unturned.
This was a Traveling Sister read, which I enjoyed immensely!
💕 As I read the book, I wondered how the author thought up all this story!
Reviewing in the face of the great billows of love projected towards this novel is a hapless task, your hat blows off and your eyes get all teary and if you say one wrong thing small children run out of nowhere and stone you or just bite your calves.
3) For 350 pages the writing is lovely and the recreation of one tiny corner of the Congo convinced me.
Ah if it was only all like that, then we could remain friends and there would be no tears before bedtime.4) After that it goes really wrong.
5) But 350 pages can't be denied.
In this novel, the father character is entirely hideous and the mother and each daughter represent a plight of some kind.
Their existence is to present arguments for and against lots of important issues in Africa, but for me that kind of thing is an extremely dissatisfying fiction experience.
I suppose there is an argument for fictionalizing reality in order to make it more palatable and invite a larger audience to your cause, but I don't think this novel is successful in that regard.
Like Orleanna who can't wear shoes in Atlanta because she needs to feel dirt between her feet I prefer to walk to church (with stroller and kids) in Minus degree weather because that's my connection to my family and culture in Germany.
The author lingered on the fact that Africans (especially villagers) can't grasp the fact of a family owning or keeping more than they need or consume at any point.
They go straight to the refreshment table (in the middle of the meeting, untouched foods and all) eat, and then go home.
Kingsolver casts a spell with the language she uses to describe three decades in the collective lives of the Price family, beginning with their time as missionaries in the Belgian Congo.
The ending family is a mirror image of the beginning, Leah Price and her four sons serving as the anti-missionary to Nathan Price’s strict and misguided zealotry.
Kingsolver is clearly critical of the Christian mission and Western capitalism, and her argument is persuasive.
What is maddening about the narrative is Kingsolver’s use of straw man arguments, when she does not need to!
Her articulation of the most subtle nuances of experience, the profoundly different narrative voices she assumes like an experienced character actress, and the way she fluently plays with language, show Kingsolver's love and mastery of her craft.Having been brought up by ultra-religious Christian parents myself, I found the children's and wife's experience strongly resonant and painfully authentic.I think you have to have lived it to know how accurate and insightful she is in her exposition of the nature of evangelical authoritarianism, it's effect on character, the power of rigidly imposed gender roles, the monomaniacal aspects of monotheism, the not-so-subtle and pervasive racism and sexism.
The experiences of the family are told by the preacher’s wife, Orleanna, and their four daughters, the vain Rachel, twins Leah, who is devoted to her father, and Adah, damaged at birth but more aware than anyone realizes, and the baby, Ruth Ann. The events take place during a period when Congo was eager to cast off its colonial chains and we see some details of events of the time.Barbara Kingsolver - from the GuardianThis is a tale not merely about a missionary family in an alien land, but about learning to see what is in plain sight.
We end up caring so much for the four doomed Price sisters because their personalities are so different; this affords the reader a chance to breeze through the resounding narrative and never arrive at boredom.
He is in the background, just like all the historical pinpoints of paramount significance (chief of which is Lumumba's assassination, the rise of the dictatorship and the segue to the countless genocides...), & the women (including the thoughts of an older mother Price on her deathbed) are where they belong, in the forefront.
RACHELI am the oldest sister and a typical teenage girl, oh-jeez-oh-man.
‘Well, in the fallout from the Léopoldville riots, the report of a Belgian parliamentary working group on the future of the Congo was published in which a strong demand for "internal autonomy" was noted.
Issues including federalism, ethnicity and the future role of Belgium in Congolese affairs were left unresolved after the delegates failed to reach agreement,’ he said.‘Well I guess that's us brought up to date, then,’ I sighed.
Daddy doesn't seem to like the Congolese at all.
The narrative is picked up by one of Orleanna's four daughters, Leah, who at the age of 14 begins as perhaps the most devoted to the calling of her father, the Reverend Nathan Price, a minister who campaigned with the Southern Baptist Mission League and raised tithes from his congregation in Bethlehem, Georgia for the opportunity to relocate his family to the village on the Kwilu River and save its souls.The experience of the Prices in Congo is also related by Leah's fearless five-year-old sister Ruth May, her crooked spined but sharp minded 14-year-old twin Adah and her vapid 16-year-old sister Rachel.
Accepting a book recommendation offered up by my fellow Equinox Book Challenge participant, I chose to explore another novel related to the struggles of a maturing African continent.
Learning that Kingsolver set this book in Africa, I wondered if it might complement some of the topics about which I had recently read, while also offering me something with a little less political frustration.
Kingsolver presents an all-consuming novel that pushes the limits through the eyes of an American family, at times offering the presumptive ignorance of missionaries while also exploring massive clashes in cultural differences between the Western world and African villages.
Reading about social injustices can do this to me sometimes.The Poisonwood Bible is a story of a Baptist preacher Nathan Price who chooses to become a missionary in the Belgian Congo of 1959.
Along with his unwavering beliefs and desire to bring salvation and enlightenment to savage natives, Nathan takes his wife and four daughters to Africa.
Nathan Price symbolizes the colonialist forces that think it is their right (if not responsibility) to bring change to the countries they misunderstand and look down upon, at any cost, including destroying people's cultures, religions, and leadership.
There were parts of the book that dragged for me -- and the whole catalyst for why these four girls and their mother were transplanted to Africa (a highly controlling husband/father) was never completely resolved to my satisfaction (he sort of disappears in to the jungle halfway through the book, never to return).From a Christian standpoint, I was also disappointed in how missionaries were generally portrayed -- self-seeking, greedy and Bible-thumping morons who were either frothing at the mouth or couldn't get out of the country fast enough when the going got tough.
My local book club is discussing this book tomorrow morning -- I read this before I joined Goodreads. This story was 'gripping' -(I still remember my gut was hurting at times) - This novel left a lasting -- YEARS LASTING impression -- Highly recommend it!!!!!!!!
I loved how Kingsolver shows the world view of an entire family who is experiencing the same basic situations in the Congo, but each member deals with these things very differently.
So when Barbara Kingsolver sends missionary Nathan Price along with his wife and four daughters off to Africa in The Poisonwood Bible, you can be sure that salvation is the one thing they're not likely to find.
The first part of The Poisonwood Bible revolves around Nathan's intransigent, bullying personality and his effect on both his family and the village they have come to.
3 stars !....This book had moments of perfection in its poetic prose (5 star quality) to sections of the most horrible chick-lit (1.5 star quality).The narrative of the Congo was fascinating both historically and anthropologically.
At times I felt connected to the collective unconscious.
(view spoiler)[ The hunt scene as well as the death of Ruth May come to mind as examples of this.
Nathan Price, a stubborn Baptist preacher, decides to take his wife Orleanna and their four daughters to the Belgian Congo, in an attempt to convert the natives to Christianity.
Some of the girls adjust to the new way of life better than others, but it seems as though there is always another obstacle for them to tackle.Each chapter is narrated by a different family member, except for Nathan.
The story then proceeds for over 150 pages, and this is my one criticism of the book - it does feel a little long-winded.
The ratings and reviews for this book are mixed, and I can understand that because I am balancing some love/hate feelings myself.
But it's compelling in it's unique way, and it's certainly tragic.The story is about a fanatical Baptist preacher from Georgia who takes his wife and 4 daughters on a Christian mission to the Belgian Congo in 1959.
And the methods used by some of these Christian missions is also quite baffling.
That's certainly the case here.The book is written from 5 points of view, the mother and the 4 daughters.
I sort of expected the book to end when they finally left the village, but I still had another 150 pages to go.
And I was left wondering when we in the US are ever going to learn to keep our nose out of other countries' business.
I'm rapidly reaching the conclusion that I should stay away from Oprah's books because I don't think I've really enjoyed any of them.
That being said, if you like Oprah's books, you will probably like this one also.
Bought the book a year ago and it took me some time to start reading it.
Five narrators of different ages telling different stories add to the incredible atmosphere of colonial Congo and I'm enjoying both the stories and the language, witty at times.
The book is definitely food for thought regarding bringing christianity to non-Christians in those days, moreover, the culture clash problems described gives you a good insight into how to understand people whose mentality and reactions to the world around are different from yours.
This novel will definitely stay in my memory for a long, long time ...
It is told in the five different voices of the female members of the family and I have to admit to liking Adah's chapters the most.
She has a wonderful way of looking at things and I especially liked the way she referred to her bible thumping father as "Our Father" sarcastically likening him to God himself.
Rachel provided the humour to the book and I enjoyed her chapters after she left the family and made her own way in life in South Africa.
In truth I liked all five of them and became totally involved in their lives.
Altogether a beautiful book.
Though I'll not re-read the book, I thought it was an absolute masterpiece, the best book I'd read in years!Told in different voices, of various members of a missionary family in the Congo, it tells of the fanaticism of the Baptist missionary father, and the trials, tribulations, and reachings for life-affirmation of his daughters.
(I know that's a pretty awkward sentence - what can I say - like s.penk I'm past-one beer here.) It also was an introduction to the the events surrounding the independence of the Congo, which even though told in a novel, had a real ring of truth.And I certainly may reread it some time.
I'm finding that rereading books I enjoyed long ago, at a much different age, can be very rewarding.
With no regard for the well-being of his family, he drags his wife and four daughters to deepest Africa, because, of course, he is on a mission from God. Price embodies everything that I find wrong with religion - close-minded rigidity, the belief that every word of the bible is absolute and must be obeyed, and the uniquely Christian belief that man has been given permission to run roughshod over all of nature.
In short, he is one of the most loathsome characters I've ever met.Price turns out to be unpopular with the natives as well.
wonderfully written and surprisingly engaging masterpiece, illustrating the fluidity of perspective, the strength of women, and the damage that greed and possessiveness can inflict. very strong and individualistic characterizations for each of the narrative voices. understanding of a certain place and time in the Congo comes slowly but steadily to the reader and never feels forced. although kingsolver's liberal tendencies are clear, to me at least they do not unbalance the novel - except perhaps in the depiction of the minister/father. overall a novel of wisdom and beauty, well worth re-reading.
Prelepa knjiga, sjajan prevod Gorana Kapetanovica :)
