https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41014903-warcross
Marie Lu is a lovely person, but that doesn't mean I'm not going to rip into her brain baby's ass and yank its innards from its throat.Nice Natalie: Must you be so vulgar?Cynical Natalie: Yes. Besides, you can't deny feeling thoroughly underwhelmed by Warcross.Nice Natalie: Thoroughly is a bit of an overstatement.
Why couldn't she have gotten it by doing something selfish but also sympathetic, like hacking bank accounts to pay the bills after her dad died?Nice Natalie: Just because you're going through an antihero phase doesn't make good characters bad.Cynical Natalie: Hey, I love Wonder Woman just as much as you, and she's as pure-hearted as they come.
Imagine wandering through the most realistic virtual Paris ever, or lounging in a full simulation of Hawaii’s beaches. Imagine flying through a fantasy world of dragons and elves. Anything. Tokyo. Virtual reality. Spies. Do I really need to say anymore?Oh okay, I guess I'll say some more. Aside from a few kinks that will probably be ironed out by the final publication, Warcross is a thrilling sea of action and exciting sci-fi possibility. It presents a world that, given our current technology,
Unfortunately, or fortunately, she gets caught.Warcross is a virtual reality combat game created by young billionaire, Hideo Tanaka.
When Emika hacks into Warcross, she thinks she's in big trouble, so it comes as a huge surprise when Hideo offers her an undercover job as a player (and a spy) in the game.It is a very visual book, full of stunning world descriptions as the players find themselves in new and exciting arenas.
Such as (view spoiler)[why the end of the game was a trigger (hide spoiler)] and (view spoiler)[Hideo's real explanation for why he hired Emika.
I want dwayne the rock to bench press me I'm pretty sure it'll hurt less than whatever is happening right now.This was so fucking INCREDIBLE and like...ohm y god I'm just [takes deep breath] [dinosaur noises] “They believe that objects have souls. The more love you put into one, the more beautiful it becomes.” Marie Lu said this book was “a love letter to all [her] favourite things” and I keep imagining a tree that died and got chopped up into tiny pieces to become stardust that will find us aga
Marie Lu said this book was “a love letter to all [her] favourite things” and I keep imagining a tree that died and got chopped up into tiny pieces to become stardust that will find us again after billions of years and write us a perfumed love letter dusted in golden light and signed with a kiss…in the form of this book.ok I'm just being dramatic but seriously...reading warcross was like this weird holiday special from the universe that I've never expected and that was also the goddamn best feeling in the world I want to marry it!!*sprays rose water on this book*so.
4.75*Oh my god this was AWESOME! Such a great book. BiblioBabble TK very soon!!!!*thanks to Penguin Canada for the ARC!*
I LOVE THIS BOOK SO MUCH.
You will love it too.
It is beautiful and smart and Emika is a funny, flawed, *awesome* heroine.
And Hideo, omg, SO MANY FEELINGS.
The setting in this book are exploding with radness--the conversations, the technology, the intricacies of the world.
I knew from both the LEGEND series and TYE that Marie Lu was a master worldbuilder, but this clinches it.
I read this book FAST, and it totally got me out of a reading slump.
The ending was satisfying , but I have no idea how I will survive until Book 2, I really don't.
I got done reading and wanted to go find some Warcross glasses/contacts and run through one of those virtual worlds (the snowy one was my favorite obvs).
The idea that the team captain was in a fancy wheelchair in real life but still got to run around as his Warcross avatar made me so happy (just the sense of infinite possibility and not having real-world physical limitations for a short time).
How Emika is one of my new favorite characters...
I LOVED THIS BOOK SO SO MUCHWarcross is absolutely one of my favorite books of the year. It's thrilling, it's engaging, and the twists in this novel are still driving me wild. I loved absolutely everything about this novel. Hoping to film a glowing review for my YouTube channel soon!!I received a free copy of this book from Penguin Teen at Book Expo 2017. I had no obligation to review this book and all opinions are my own.
Warcross is more than just a game.
It’s a way of life.
And for Emika, Warcross has recently become her saviour… and job.
It’s professionally-written, with a serious atmosphere, and a badass heroine you’ll root for.
Even the love interest didn’t hold a candle to him.
Actually, there’s nothing I disliked about this book… except that I didn’t fall for the romance.
I enjoyed reading about the Warcross game so badly I wanted to experience it myself.
But this game fascinated me, especially Emika’s role in it.
Emika herself wasn’t so interested in her teammates, so that has to change… and I have a feeling it will.Such shocking final events.
Reading the blurb gave me a feeling of "been there, done that more times than I can count", but I was so intrigued by the consistently high ratings that my curiosity stayed piqued.
I actually picked this up without reading the summary again (the last time I did was probably 3 months ago) and I love the open perspective it gave me.
I could truly picture this book being turned into a hollywood blockbuster film; my only concern is that we do not have the technology yet to do the story the justice it so richly deserves.If I could solve these problems, then I could control something.
DNF at 50% - audiobook Pretty much from the beginning, I wasn’t too thrilled about this book.
Poor orphan girl who becomes the chosen one for a talent that feels like she got overnight.
For doing a nice thing… Does it mean she's not like other girls?
Let's be real, giving her rainbow hair won’t hide how bland she is.But the last drop for me was when the romance that started.
When the interactions started being cringy I just decided to DNF the whole thing.Life's too short for cringy YA romance book with a predictable plot.
I don't even want to say much about the plot (hah if you know me, I normally like to go into books blind anyway).
However, I LOVED Ready Player One, mostly because I played World of Warcraft for years when I was in college (heyo to my gamer friends.) And if you've read Ready Player One, you know its the perfect balance between fun references to crazy intense plot line, and it appeals to an audience beyond the themes it references.
Like when we read Ready Player One together, he's constantly nudging me and freaking out because Marie Lu knows her stuff.
If this sounds at all familiar, you have probably encountered the synopsis of a lil book called Ready Player One at some point or another.Specifically, Warcross (book not game) is about this gal named Emika, who is a bounty hunter in New York City.
its been 6 days since i read this and im still trying to coherently write a review,,,,, but thats not possible so i'll just scream that THIS WAS REALLY FUCKING GOOD AND I TAKE BACK EVERY BAD THING I EVER SAID ABOUT NOT HIDEOUS HIDEO AND EMIKA'S RAINBOW HAIR.
i fucking love them and also what the absolute FUCK was this ending.
just some other side screaming: i predicted the identity of zero!!!!!
i cant wait for the next book because this ending was fucking hell.
------giving this book another try after dnfing it the first time.
Marie Lu is a legit talent. I love the way she can genre-hop and kick ass every time.
4.5 starsYASSSS. Marie Lu, the queen, IS BACK!
I love the concept and how it was staged, I loved the atmosphere, I loved the camaraderie, the team chemistry, the choice to highlight the sense of community Warcross, just like all sports, creates among people all over the world, people from different places and ethnicities and backgrounds yet brought together by something as simple as a game, as simple as the fun they have watching or playing it.
It's one of the most beautiful things in the world, feeling part of a group of people who share their love for something joyful and healthy like sports and games.
I felt like I wasn't really going to get into this book.
I'm not sure if it was my mood, that I wasn't really ready for a gaming book or what.
What is going to happen in the next book?
It was pretty obvious to me right up front who the hacker in Warcross was that wanted to take out the creator, Hideo Tanka.
She hacked into the Warcross game and everyone saw her.
Hideo pays off Emika's debts and hires her to find out who is hacking into this game.
This was a 3-star book for me up until the last 15 pages and just wow.(view spoiler)[I'm usually great at predicting endings of books but even I didn't see that coming. I'm shook. (hide spoiler)]But in other news, for the first time in two months  I FINISHED A BOOK!!!! Also the main character is named Emika Emi and I wanna know who let her have that name? It's mine. She can't have it. Anyways, Me, Emi, and not the Emi in the book have actually finished a book. I actually remembered how to read!!
This was a 3-star book for me up until the last 15 pages and just wow.(view spoiler)[I'm usually great at predicting endings of books but even I didn't see that coming.
(hide spoiler)]But in other news, for the first time in two months 
Anyways, Me, Emi, and not the Emi in the book have actually finished a book.
But that might have to do with the fact for the two months I've been in this horrendous slump, I've spent more time then I probably should admit watching a group of dudes who suck at video games play video games.
i wish i could just copy + paste the emotions i'm feeling right now so i could accurately convey my love for this book ✘ http://playwarcross.com/  honestly it's been a while since a book has made me feel so ♥‿♥ and i don't know if i'm ready to talk about warcross yet..... but right now i'm not even capable of doing anything but stare at my wall and think about this book anyways so i might as well be semi-productive and write my review while doing thatif you don't care about my unnecessarily long
shoutout to marie lu for creating such amazing characters, i found myself falling in love with everyone and everyTHING* in this book (*wikki my baby robot can i adopt you)back when i read legend i remember not caring about the characters and suddenly i deeply care for EVERY SINGLE PERSON like what why how did this happen i don't want to get emotionally attached to all of them???
thank you.now i'm silmultaneously hella excited for warcross #2 and also scared shitless that anything will happen to my favs in the next book, like pls, be kind @ marie lu©
update: I used up valuable space in my suitcase for other books and brought Warcross to Japan and took pretty photos of it in Tokyo. the pages are slightly heat-warped and it was a completely extra thing to do but do I have any regrets? of course not-----------------------------------so I read this more than half a year ago so there probably is never going to be a full review but someone give me three reasons why I should NOT bring this book on my trip to Tokyo in July just to take pictures of the book in Tokyo
this was everything i wish ‘ready player one’ could have been.
it wasnt convoluted with high-tech coding jargon or bogged down with gaming references - this was a fun story about a girl who unexpectedly finds herself entered in a global gaming competition.
and i really enjoyed this, even though i couldnt care less about gaming.
marie lu has an effortless style of writing that makes it so easy to inhale her stories and this was no exception.
some components were a bit predictable, but overall this was a fun and enjoyable read!
very much looking forward to 'wildcard' later this year!
Maybe I was wrong, and maybe someday I'll look back and regret lashing out like that. I'm still not entirely sure why I threw myself into the fire over this specific incident. But sometimes, people kick you to the ground at recess because they think the shape of your eyes is funny. They lunge at you because they see a vulnerable body. Or a different skin color. Or a difficult name. Or a girl. They think that you won't hit back—that you'll just lower your eyes and hide. And sometimes, to protec
And she might just end up regretting the offer she just took from him that leads to the Warcross empire going downhill.I'd first like to say that Emika Chen is the girl every other girl would want.
I wasn't interested in the beginning because everything was just about explaining Warcross and was really, just about Warcross, and I really just wanted to get to the point where Emika hacks into the game and is offered this grand prize by Hideo.
meh.
it was all right i guess?
wasn't expecting much but is2g the romance and the mention of emika's rainbow hair in nearly every chapter made me physically want to put myself into a chokehold.
first person narrative wasn't doing shit for me either.the extra stars are mainly just kudos for the poc, disability, and minor lgbt rep.
side note: hideo is blander than a sack of flour.
which is disappointing because there are barely any asian male love interests in books.
---ya'll: are getting arcs for this book like crazyme: is getting a second helping of baked potatoesso who's the real winner here
And I also struggled with the whole "90% OF THE WORLD IS PLAYING WARCROSS NOW!" because there is no reality where I would've been into games like this so...??
I just struggle to think that 90% of the world will someday be into virtual gaming realities...Or maybe I am fish soup.
I mean, she was a hopeless do-gooder and I'm tired of the trope of "oh I have a criminal record and am 'bad' but ACTUALLY IT WAS FOR SUCH A PURE AND GOOD REASON." Give me Kaz Brekker and, like, actual badness if you're going to claim that card.
Hideo is the only character besides Emika who we really learn very much about, but he's an incredibly enjoyable aspect of the story, despite feeling a little blurry and "grey" for most of the book (I constantly found myself second-guessing his motives).GAME MECHANICS ➳➳As someone who has been gaming my entire life, including MMO playing, I loved the explanations of how the game worked, the ins and outs of the teams and their missions, the challenges they faced...
I literally cannot right now because the last 15% of the book deeessttroooooooyyed me, NNNNNNGGGGGGGGGGHHHHHH.I finished this when the trailer for Ready Player One dropped and I'M JUST SO MUCH MORE EXCITED.Virtual reality world, bounty hunters, badass heroine, game-changing twists....seriously.
What more can I want??!This book was such a delicious and exploding piece of treasure.
Thank you for one of the best books I've had the greatest pleasure of reading this year.
Thanks for that thrilling ride.
Thanks for all the fun...because now, it's all 'go big or go home'.
So bring us home mami.
Bring it all in, baby.
Warcross is everything I wish Ready Player One had been. It has a great cast of diverse characters who each have a decisive role in the plot. A thriller-type mystery plotline to keep things interesting. Romance with plenty of (natural, non-fabricated) drama, just the way I like it. A dynamic heroine who is true to herself throughout the book. Extra points for the rainbow hair.All around, just a great read.
3.5 Stars “Everything's science fiction until someone makes it science fact” I’m going to go ahead and say it: It’s not very original. The idea of an immersive gaming system where you control an avatar and it has real world complications has been done many times. (Examples: #1, #2, #3, #4,#5, and #6 )What is new is the fun and diverse cast at the forefront of the story. Our main character is a young Asian female with rainbow-colored hair and a sleeve of tattoos who doesn’t tolerate being undere
Most of them don’t seem fully-developed yet, and this reflects most with our main character who is astoundingly good at everything she does.
But for Emika to be great at physically catching bad-guys in the real world, have top-notch criminal hacking skills (despite dropping out of high school) and kick butt at Warcross felt too much.
(Can you imagine Skyrim with those glasses?)It’s weird to me that I have so many negatives and I’m still rating this so high, but it’s also not at all weird because that ending.
The characters and world are both fun, but underdeveloped.
It’s 4am and I literally just read this in one sitting. I have SO. MANY. THOUGHTS. MY BRAIN IS OVERWHELMED. BUT IN A REALLY REALLY GOOD WAY.
Full review postedWhat is this?? I’m writing a review after 446 years?? Is this real life??(marie lu, the destroyer of my soul drew this guys, this woman is too talented to be human) Reasons why Warcross is the Best Book rn - EMIKA CHEN IS A QUEEN AMONG PEASANTS - She’s a hacker, bounty hunter, and all-round-boss- She has rainbow hair !!!- THE BOOK IS BASICALLY READY PLAYER ONE BUT SET IN TOKYO WHATTTT- The writing is so easy to read I basically read it all in a day- Marie lu leAVES SO MANY EAST

