https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/389345.Magic_Science_and_Religion_and_Other_Essays
20130118 For Social Anthropology 3400 (core requirement), Winter Q 2013.I am not enjoying this ethnography at all. Not only is it hopelessly antiquated, factually incorrect, and infuriating in its condescending language (members of hunter/gatherer cultures are described as "savages" and "primitives"), but it's also as slow as molasses. Plus, I resent having to read anything that takes me away from studying for my two osteology classes right now. Hrmph.20130122 Never before have I so deliberately skimmed a book for the bare minimum of comprehension needed in order to pass a college course. I barely even felt guilty about it.
It describes the way magic in primitive cultures turns into relgious ritual as they progress, and gives lots of real-wrold examples of cultures undergoing this transition, and the way it changes their understanding of the world.
I would have thought that an organic, myth-rich magical tradition would be hampered by its evolution to abstract ritual, but in actuality most primitive magic was (and is) very perfunctory, even boring.
In many cultures it seems the witch doctor is like the modern accountant; he knows what he's doing and does it well, but almost nobody envies him the scope of his work.
The book alternates between grand theory and specific generalizations about the Kiriwinians. Soem of the specific stuff is very interesting. Some of it is pretty boring.The larger theory is not particularly supported, contrary to the assertions in the introduction. The differences asserted between our culture and the Kirwinians' culture are very interesting. The minus points are because some of it was what caused me to take so long reading it. But I don't know what it was.
He points out that many myths tend to be justifications of social relationships, especially those which involve inequalities of wealth, privilege, or power; but in particular, he sees myths as justifying magical practices.The third essay, "Baloma: The Spirits of the Dead in the Trobriand Islands" [1916], written a decade earlier than the other two, is a description of beliefs about the spirits of the dead (baloma) and the afterlife in the Trobriand Islands, where he did most of his fieldwork.
0
It's truly a piece of classical, old-school anthropology.The second essay worth reading is the one about the anthropological perspective on war.
For example, this is how he criticizes totalitarism:"The German nation, once leading in science and in art, rich in a highly differentiated regional folklore, peasant life and economic diversity, has now been changed into a large-scale barracks.
[..] The progressive extinction of this diversity is the price which Germany, as a nation, had to pay in order to make Germany, the state, so powerful.
So read Baloma and the essay on war, ignore the others and you'll lose nothing.
The initial thoughts about science and religion among native peoples were interesting, but the myths themselves were unembellished enough to be uninteresting and the field observations made me feel like I was watching an ant farm of aliens rather than humans. Oddly, the same effect worked for me in The War of the Worlds, but in nonfiction I want more consideration of the humanity that binds rather than the oddity of otherness.For a look at how Malinowski compares with Martha Gellhorn and Anderson Cooper, check out my full-length book review.
I picked up Magic, Science and Religion as a painless way to get in touch with Malinowski's writing style. In fact it is quite interesting and readable, therefore I shall proceed to longer writings as soon as possible. In this short essay, Malinowski draws similarities and differences between the three, arguing that magic in its specificity and seriousness can be very much like science, with precise rules and "professionals". Religion, on the other hand, is done collectively, each individual takes place no matter how initiated he is.
I first picked this book up for school many years ago and never got around to reading it. While I'm not a big fan of Bronislaw's writing style, as some of it seems a bit naive, I can appreciate everything he wrote about in the book. The essays on Magic, Science, and Religion were thought provoking and interesting how he blures the lines of each.
No soy antropolog y por lo tanto mi percepcion del libro no es tan profunda como debiera.Sin embargo es un muy libro, que analiza una parte importante del ser humano, esa parte que parece ser la mas irracional de nuestra sociedad, en lo particular la discusion sobre la utilidad del mito de la religion, fue la parte que mas me gusto, sera por que soy pragmatico
If you are an anthropologist u have to read this stuff. It's part if where we came from and how we got to where we are in the field today. But it definitely isn't "light" reading. No paranormal activity or raging sex scenes. But hey, we gotta have at least one foot in reality. Or would Malinowski say otherwise? Hmmmmmm.
This book is really 3 papers delivered by Malinowski on the subject of religion. It is a must-read for any mythologist, mythographer, religious studies major. He has a very engaging style of writing. A very much "wind in the palms" style of ethnography that brings the exotic to life.
متوفر للقراءة في موقع مكتبة الاسكندريةhttp://dar.bibalex.org/webpages/mainp...
Fascinating stuff!
RTC
