https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/897867.The_Greengage_Summer
$1.99 Kindle sale, Sept. 20, 2018, for this 1958 novel by Rumer Godden. My GR friend Hana loved it, and she has great taste in literary fiction, so I bit!
Greengages, or reines-claudes.This must have been lurking on the back shelf in the spare bedroom for years, ever since I bought it on a bookseller's recommendation as a way of weaning a teen off Jacqueline Wilson and onto something slightly more grown-up.
A bittersweet evocation of August days in the Champagne district, it is set just after WW1, when the narrator was thirteen.
A real mystery knits itself up, with more than one type of border crossed, innocence lost, and the swither between child and adult that is thirteen.With penicillin and paracetamol, nowadays there would have to be some other way of removing the responsible adults.
But remove them one must.
This 13 year old's (Cecil is her name) tale of a summer spent at a hotel in France during the 1920's is magnificent.It has succulent fruit, ripe and golden, and all of it is not in the orchard.
Lovely, lovely and incredibly realistic and yet heart leaping tale for many of our own memories of the wild summer days of freedom near the ends of our childhoods.
Chronological glory and I was never so glad to see Uncle William in my life.Best quality of read in spirit and in lyrical prose for the year and exactly what I needed for a gloomy spring.
The Greengage Summer is a coming-of-age novel based on a real summer in Rumer Godden’s life.
This was Rumer as a child and it was during this memorable trip to France she learned some things which would stay with her forever.The five English children—Joss, Cecil, Hester, Willmouse (the only boy) and Vicky—were left stranded in a French hotel when their mother was bitten on the leg and the wound turned septicemic.
Mrs. Grey was confined to hospital and the children were at the mercy of an unusual assortment of French-speaking hotel staff.
Of the children, Cecil, spoke the most French and served as translator for the group.
'On and off , all that hot French August, we made ourselves ill from eating the Greengages.....A wonderful coming of age novel .Love and deceit in the Champagne country of the Marne.I found this charming with atmosphere of a hot summer where the Grey children stay in Les Oeillets while their mother recovers in hospital.No one is quite what they seem and what happens in this tale of young innocence?Beautifully written.
Les Oeillets caters to these battlefield visitors and the owner, Mademoiselle Zizi, and the manager, Madame Corbet, make the most of the gruesome relics—the bullet holes on the staircase and a bloodstain in one of the guest rooms, carefully renewed with pan drippings at regular intervals.I thought that no one could do children better than Elizabeth Goudge, but now I’ll have to add Rumer Godden as another author who can create sympathetic and utterly believable children and young people; each of the five English children has a distinctive voice and personality and we see the world and its ‘grown-up’ inhabitants through their perceptive eyes and quick ears.
As Godden writes — in Cecil’s voice — early on in the book: “To wake for the first time in a new place can be like another birth.” The reader senses a maturing journey ahead for Cecil and her four siblings, left alone by their sick mother, who has to be hospitalized in a nearby town as soon as they arrive at the idiosyncratic Les Oeillets, their country house hotel.
Gigi.To read 'The Greengage Summer’ is like spending a sunny Summer weekend in a beautiful French country hotel, with delicious food and drink, in the company of characters with faults, foibles and charms that make for most entertaining company.
Ostensibly a coming of age story about the awakening of sexuality, it deals with ordinary people put in an extraordinary situation where unworldly children (ranging in ages from sixteen to four years old are suddenly thrust into a very worldly adult environment without proper supervision.
How the various characters deal with the situation and each other is very human and natural--warts and all.
The story is told through the innocent eyes of a thirteen year old girl and raises questions about perceptions, appearances, love, loyalty, deceit and the consequences of ones actions.Apparently, this is based on a real story experienced by the author when she was abroad with her mother and siblings when she was 15 and her older sister was 18.
The hotel proves to be a hotbed of various passions and the cat is put among the pigeons when Cecil’s beautiful sixteen-year-old sister, Joss, comes downstairs after a period of illness and immediately attracts the attention of Eliot – to the fury of his lover, the hotel owner, Mademoiselle Zizi.
I was recently reminded of this book by Godden, which I had read several years ago. I recall enjoying it and think that perhaps I should refresh my memory and read it again!
I was hankering after a good, humane, warm, smart and funny story, one that was not self-conscious or tortured, one I could sit by the pool and linger over.
That was when Rumer Godden's name drifted into my mind--I had loved her work as a teenager, so I chose this one.
She gets inside the minds of children like no one else except Elizabeth Bowen.
Godden has a pitch perfect ear for the efforts of children to understand grown-ups, and the delightful 13 year old narrator, Cecil's awkwardness and self-doubt, even as she knows much more than she wishes to.
THE GREENGAGE SUMMER. (1958). Rumer Godden. *****. My experience with Rumer Godden’s writings has been limited. I’ve read two of her works: “Black Narcissus,” and “The River.” I can also recommend the film made from “The River” directed by Jean Renoir. I found this novel to be excellent. It starts off as a sleeper, but you soon get involved with the characters and are caught up in their adventures. A mother from a small town in England decides that her children need to explore something differen
The brood included her five children, four girls and one boy.
Then there was the boy – about 10-years old – who had a great interest in fashion.
The children really didn’t speak French past their school training, so had to do a lot of guessing about what was said to them.
They soon discovered that quite a lot was going on at this hotel, Les Oeillets (The Violets), that went beyond their knowledge of life.
There is a great air of mystery about Mr. Eliot, too, that puzzles the children.
I guess I’m going to have to find more of Ms. Godden’s novels.
(I've been reading her books since before I can remember!) While I don't always enjoy these types of coming-of-age novels, this one was different enough to still be rather fascinating, though it did feel a bit slight.
Especially regarding what happened in the end.Apparently some editions of this book have a preface by Rumer Godden which explains "how this book came to be written".
(I've read her memoirs, apparently, but considering the fact I just had to look up whether or not I had, it's not surprising I really can't remember if she addresses the story behind this book.)
The children spend the summer at a little country hotel in France and get a worldly education they weren't expecting.
The funniest character is Willmouse, the only boy in the family, who is more like a girl than any of his four sisters.
Willmouse is quite a dandy in the making.
He spends the days with his dolls in his atelier under the cherry tree.
The one irritating thing about this book is that there are places with French dialogue and no translation.
Crazy French people hurling insults at each other is no fun when you have no idea what they're saying.

What can I say? Loved it! My first Rumer Godden and I daresay it will not be the last. I wanted the story to go on and on. I want to make a quick note of two cute references she had in there: the children called their patchy clothes their "scarecrows"...I loved that. And because it was a family of 5, they referred to the youngest children as the Littles...and we do the same thing! Only we have the Middles too.
I know I first read The Greengage Summer as a girl, and was mostly puzzled then at how different it was from Godden's children's books - how unsettled and lacking in resolution. Reading it again as an adult, it was absolutely glorious, redolent of summer, and smarting with the realization of ambiguity that is so important to the best coming-of-age novels.
As I read this book, I was drawn back to my own childhood in the character of the narrator, the oldest child but one, who often has to be the responsible person in the face of flighty, immature behavior of the French innkeeper adults who neither want nor handle well these "wild" English children thrust upon them when their mother ends up hospitalized at the start of their summer holiday abroad.
Godden made me feel the joys of summer freedom, the playfulness at trying out forbidden adult behaviors, and the terror and confusion when it all starts to go wrong.
Most of the time, she is 13-year-old Cecil (short for Cecilia, I think, though Godden never says) Grey telling what happened to her brother, her sisters and herself that summer while their mother was in hospital.
This is a story of a family of extremely bright, precocious children caught between childhood and adulthood.
An English mother decides to take her bratty lot to France to show them the sacrifices made for them in The Great War. She is bitten by a fly and becomes extremely ill on he way to the Marne, is hospitalised and the children are alone at the hotel of mother's choice but without mother.
At the beginning it seems to be a nice adult novel about children and their stay in France between wars.
But DO read them last as they enrich the story immensely.
‘The Greengage summer like other Rumer Godden novels I have read is wonderfully evocotive of place.
There is a constant feeling of a hot and hazy summer, of being in a place that is both exciting and strange, where one is never sure who is who, and what is what.
Their mother is ill in a local hospital and so they come under the "care" of Eliot a mysterious Englishman at the hotel, whom they are all strangely drawn to.
The preface - written by Rumer Godden explains how this novel came to be written and in a sense the story behind it, a true story and one that makes fascinating reading.
The Greengage Summer was written in 1958.My 2013 Pan Macmillan edition has a preface from Godden herself explaining that this story is 'partly true'.When she was 15 (in 1922), her mother, in a fit of despair declared 'we are going to the Battlefields of France.'What followed was an exquisite coming of age tale about discovery, deceit and international thieves!
The story was deliciously melodramatic at times and I would think, 'that can't possibly be true.' Reading the preface at the end was a wonderful realisation that sometimes life is indeed stranger than fiction.Full review here - http://bronasbooks.blogspot.com.au/20...
When their mother takes ill and is hospitalized while on a family vacation to see the battlefields of France, five British children are left to fend for themselves in a small hotel, with minimal supervision.
An adult coming of age novel, mature teens with a taste for old fashioned books should also appreciate it.
The second oldest daughter narrates as she observes the hotel owner, the employees, the guests, and her own siblings.
Highly recommended and something different for book clubs to discuss, although finding copies may be difficult.
I first read this book as a teenager and was happy to find the audio version on the library shelf so that I could renew my acquaintance with this author and her work. I found I had forgotten the details of the story but had a sense of the atmosphere which comes through. The characters are well drawn and there is a fine sense of place. This might appear to be a story about children on holiday but there is a sense of menace that comes through and the end of the novel comes as a surprise.
Rachel bought me a new copy this week when I discovered to my shock that it was not on my shelves! How could I have lost it? I devoured it again in 48 hours - soothing my coughing nights. A truly idyllic description of crazy French holidays, and the revelation that I had not spotted (25 odd years ago when I first read this) that Willmouse was obviously gay. A re-read must. Now on to the Peacock Spring.
Can't believe I haven't read this? (love this author) - saw this on the "recommended" shelf at the library. Finished - it was good and I liked it but didn't love it. It did drive me crazy that there was so much French that was not translated or explained by other dialog. And all the characters were introduced in such a flurry it took me almost the whole book to get them straight.
Note to anyone else who might want to read this. DON'T read the author's introduction until you've read the book. It contains spoilers. Unfortunately, I did, so I pretty much knew what would happen at the end before I really started the book. That said, it was well written, with very evocative descriptions, and it was possible to lose yourself in the place and time.
I am really enjoying Godden's books right now. I love how everything fell into place towards the end- I couldn't read fast enough to see how it ended. Anyway, it was a good read. planning on looking for more of her booksAt the library.
I love Rumer Godden's writing, and I would have given this one 5 stars except that the Preface in this edition should have been an afterword, as it gave away too much of the story... And the ending of the book was so abrupt. But overall a lot of gorgeous writing.
This is another book by Rumer Godden with children as the main characters. I didn't care for The River or Peacock Spring, and I didn't like this one either. Although this one was the best of the three.
