https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/160194.Noises_Off
I've seen this three times.
It's the most clever play, hysterically funny, really laugh-until-it-hurts-funny, but it has to be done by somebody top-notch.
Happily, I've only bombed out once.Michael Frayn suffers from being an all-rounder.
I once read some advice he gave to aspiring writers.
Find one thing to say and keep saying it, that's what people want out of an author.
All-rounders are never respected.
Luckily for most writers, they do only have about one thing to say.Frayn couldn't be further from that.
It may hurt his pocket, but honestly, Michael Frayn, there are grateful readers out there.
"Noises Off!" is the funniest comedy I have ever seen or read.In "Noises Off!" a group of actors is preparing to stage a production of the smash farce "Nothing On." This is part of why this play is so funny: The play that the actors are butchering is hilarious in itself.
They forget lines and stage directions, lose contact lenses and deal with a set that won't work right.
But, the script contains hilarious "bios" of the actors that presumably appear in the playbill.
And the side-by-side scripts of the second act (lines and directions for what is happening on stage and back stage) are really funny.
As I laughed through reading this play it brought me back to my early college years when I saw The Dinner Party on Broadway.
I laughed so hard during that play I cried!
So after hearing that there was a film version of this play I immediately thought during the second act I have to watch this play to get the full experience.This is a play within a play.
The reader/audience gets to see everything that happens behind the scenes while the performance continues on stage.
The hilarity continues with each act as things slowly start to go wrong.
One of the funniest things I've ever read!
My first exposure to Noises Off came from a class in college, where it was listed on the course syllabus.
We read portions of the text in class, and actually disrupted the class above us because we were laughing so hard and so loud.
I will say, though, that most of the humor in this script will be more appreciated by those who have worked in or around the world of theater.
I viewed the movie with a non-theater type, and they were not nearly as amused.
It's worth several reads!
It could really range from one star to five stars – all depending on how much of the play you were actually able to absorb from a reading.
It is a broad farce about what might go wrong during the rehearsal of a new play.
The characters all play a minimum of two parts.
I’d love to see this on stage, where it would have a chance to work for the audience, but reading it is futile.
Frayn is well known for his farces as exemplified in many of his other works.
A really good time! How? How is it that a writer can make a can of sardines so funny? I loved every character and every hysterical predicament the actors put themselves in while trying to put on their show.
This was highly amusing. Oddly, I feel like walking around with a plate of sardines in striped boxers. Read the damn book.
The troupe of actors performing the farce 'Nothing on' suffers from internal strife and compromised professionalism.
The coup de grace in the published version is the notes from the programme of the fictional performance of 'Nothing on', complete with notes about the actors and a very serious discussion of the bedroom farce as a glimpse of the noumenal.
Good enough for a few weeks' worth of laugh therapy.Michael Frayn se toneelstuk oor 'n span onbeholpe akteurs wat 'n klug op die planke bring, is in druk net so prettig as op die verhoog of in die filmweergawe.
I don't laugh when someone gets hit over the head for no reason.
I don't laugh when someone flubs and does an "oopsie!" I do laugh when all the sudden in the third act Brooke stops and blinks one eye, because I know from the set-up in the first act that that one gesture means she has lost a contact, and with everything else going wrong this is the cherry on top of the chaos cake.The entire play is a web of cause and effect.
The best part: You almost never know when something has actually gone wrong, since the entire play is things going wrong.
Reading the play is like reading the script to the movie and I could hear all the characters in my head.So perhaps you're thinking "why read it?" Because deep down there is still that theatre nerd inside of me who marvels at the wonder of the stage.
While the script gives quite a few stage directions, there's still so much that's left to the director and cast that you can't help but be impressed at every single company that takes this on.If you're in to theatre at all, this is worth reading sometime.
If you love the movie, read this.
It begins with a company performing the final dress rehearsal of the fictional sex farce, Nothing On. The first act provides the set-up for the completely hysterical second act and the disastrous finale.
Frayn establishes the cast of characters so perfectly that when things fall apart backstage during the tour in the second act, every moment is laugh out loud funny.
By the conclusion in the third act, there is nothing left to do but watch the ensuing disintegration with helpless glee.
I also rented the DVD of Noises Off to watch after I finished the play so that I could see it performed.
A farce of a farce--farce squared. A group of rather unfortunate actors try to put on a play while various affairs, alcohol problems, rivalries, and psychological problems gum up the works. It's difficult to read, particularly the second act where the action happening on stage runs down one side of the page while the action happening backstage is on the other. While the movie was entertaining, I don't think it captured everything here completely.
SIX WORD REVIEW: Sardines and sheikhs and backstage drama!
First show I ever saw on Broadway. I have seen many versions. I have directed scenes from it with student companies. I auditioned for it recently (without success). One of the funniest plays ever written. Anyone who has been in a touring theatre company will recognize the reality underlying the hilarious extremes. Not to be missed, if you ever get the chance to see/read it.
I had more trouble reading this play than any other play I have ever read, including Shakespeare.
I really enjoyed it and we watched the movie version of the play as part of our library group discussion.
I got more out of watching the play/movie having read it first but it was definitely more fun to watch than to read.
The movie version was hilarious and the cast was absolutely outstanding...Michael Caine, Carol Burnett, Christopher Reeve, John Ritter, Marilu Henner, Julie Haggerty, Nicollette Sheridan, and Mark Linn Baker.
I would recommend it to anyone who enjoys theater or comedy.
I have never laughed so hard at reading a script.
Secondly, as an actor, I actually could see the ridiculous slapstick stuff that happens in this play actually happening.The play is based in two acts.
The first act is the final dress rehearsal, the second act is a month into the run, and then it jumps ahead again another month into the run.I honestly laughed and laughed at the situations they find themselves in and the relationships that steadily deteriorate through the play.If you want a laugh that pokes fun at actors and the ridiculous situations they put themselves in then read this.
I’d heard reading this play was better than the filmed version, which I stumbled across and enjoyed somewhat. But it wasn’t so: it is better enjoyed watching than reading, partly because the timing of the action is so important and partly because the reaction of the characters lends to the enjoyment.
Reading this is a really interesting experience because you have to keep so many simultaneous actions in your head. I was trading off between this and another novel for a bit, and I realized that this one needed my full attention. It's really funny, even just in the reading, but I didn't know Peter Bogdanovich filmed an adaptation! I'm definitely going to watch that.
It's hard to get people to laugh out loud while they're reading, but by Act 3, I could barely keep reading because I was laughing so much. I laughed until I cried, I laughed until my stomach hurt, I laughed until the cat got really annoyed.
If the live production is as hilarious as the script, I'm in! I loved everything from the characters to the stage directions. A quick and fun read - highly recommended for someone who loves a good farce.
One of my favorite shows of all time!
One of my most favoritest plays in the entire history of ever, whether onstage or in script form. Even the stage directions are hilarious!
Genius--the greatest farce since Shakespeare. Equally hilarious in London and New York. The only modern rival for best play-within-a-play is the same author's award-winning drama "Copenhagen".
A difficult read, but it is worth it. A very smart comedy. Lloyd Dallas is a very fun character.
However, if acts two and three weren't the funny things I've ever seen in theatre, I don't know what is.
What also helps elevate the comedy for me is that this play focuses on a play production (and a bad one that is).
As a person who was in theatre all four years of high school and even did a show in community theatre, I LOVED the atmosphere of a production gone HORRIBLY.
Also, the subplots this play weaves in elevate the comedy even more.
In short, this play is the funniest piece of theatre I've ever seen/read.
To call Michael Frayn's script 'batshit crazy' would not be giving it enough credit.
To look at a script of 'Noises Off' may give you a headache and I give credit to any director who tackles the project.
'Noises Off' cannot be read, it has to be seen and luckily, I was able to see my alma mater perform it a year ago.
Frayn's script, a farcical play-within-a-play is a onion of hilarity (it has layers).
Act Two is a whirlwind of physical comedy and callbacks that will make you go cross-eyed trying to keep up.
The comedy unfolds as a play within a play, Act 1 delivering us the basic plot of Nothing On and introducing us to the ill-prepared cast; Act 2 giving us the behind-the-scenes look at the opening matinee; and Act 3, a busted-up performance hardly in sync with the original.
Mistaken identities, miscommunication, and love and lust all play central parts for this ragtag group of characters, barreling through this play while the effects of reality behind-the-scenes mix with the fantasy of the play.
I wouldn't care to read it again, but I would love to see it live.
I can see the humour in this play, but it is hard to experience on the page.
It's so difficult following who's who; it would make a lot sense in the theatre where you can put a face to the name(s).
Plus a lot of the comedy comes from frustration, which gets a bit tiresome after a while.
Still, the ingenuity of the play within a play, seen from the front, then from back stage, and finally from the front again as everything falls down around their ears is very clever.
Seeing this in a theatre is now on my bucket list.
A slapstick look at a play within a play - the fictional cast start rough and deteriorate during their run until the play itself melts down in a hilarious parody of the theater.Very funny play. Clear to see why it is a staple for theater companies everywhere. The three variations of the performance, all pulled in different directions by the interaction of the bickering cast, are hilarious when compared. Highly recommend.
Exactly what it claims to be, this is a ludicrously hilarious farce. I'm prepping this one for performance this fall, and after reading it can't believe I've waited this long--I've heard about it for years, even had it presented to me on occasion!--to get it on stage!
