https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/57858.Tao_of_Jeet_Kune_Do
I took martial arts a pre-teen/teen. I sucked at it. My teacher was a strict Asian badass, I was so terrifed of him. lol What can I say, I am a delicate flower. Physical activities are not my forte.     I am such a nerd when it comes to Bruce Lee.
At forty-five, I felt I was too old and my body too stiff to achieve any real ability in jeet-kune-do."You will never learn anything new unless you are ready to accept yourself with your limitations," Bruce answered.
"You must accept the fact that you are capable in some directions and limited in others, and you must develop your capabilities." "But ten years ago I could easily kick over my head," I said.
My capabilities exceed my limitations."Bruce's capabilities did in fact exceed his limitations and, until his youthful death, he was one of the biggest stars in films.
The text is replete with diagrams and theory for the applied sciences of combat but it remains in essence a manuscript of mixed opinions, maxims and philosophy rather than a “how-to” book.I can say as a practicioner of Brazilian Jiu Jitsu, many traditional martial arts, wrestling, boxing and MMA/vale tudo in general, Lee’s “The Way of the Stopping Fist” (as a concept of fighting rather than a codified set of technique) is far and away more complete in its construction and more global in its application than any of its predecessors and yet still has gems to be unearthed by novice and experienced modern fighters.
In "Tao of Jeet Kune Do", the only character is Bruce Lee. He is also the author of the book.
He was eager to learn martial arts mainly because he was bullied in school.
One famous quote was, "Be like water." He says that "Jeet Kune Do" is just a name.
Bruce Lee's audience is anyone who wants to learn martial arts.
I'm not just learning about martial arts, but i'm learning about Bruce Lee's life, and discipline.
I love learning the "Way of the Intercepting Fist." It calms my life, because it has morals and quotes.
While JKD employs techniques and concepts from these systems, Lee remained adamant that no good came of organized styles built on fixed forms.
I’d recommend you get the print edition if you can, which is large-format paperback as I recall.) The book combines a philosophy of martial arts with nitty-gritty discussion of the technical aspects of combat.
(It should be noted that pragmatism is not a virtue in the movie-making industry.) Lee demonstrates that he’s given a lot of thought to the subject and done the training when he discusses technical concepts.
The last technical chapter discusses the approaches to attack, focusing heavily on JKD’s five types of attack.
Although this book is more for martial arts practitioner than the casual readers but I'm personally interested in Lee's philosophies. The first part of it is absolutely vital and satisfying and the last part as well. Bruce wrote magnificently about oneself and the art of expressing it honestly. He masterly simplifies everything and put everything regarding oneself into a clearer and freeing perspective.It's impossible to read this one and not gain something, I know I gained many.
Cool for fans, but I still can't throw a one inch punch.
What can I say about this book & this man.
Bruce lee has always had such an influence on me, especially in my teens.
This book describes the art that he created called `Jeet kune do`- the way of the intercepting fist.
One of my favourite quotes of his which sums up his philosophy goes as follows:- "Be formless, shapeless like water.
Now you put water into a cup, it becomes the cup.
You put water into a bottle, it becomes the bottle.
You put water into a teapot, it becomes a teapot.
Be water my water."- Bruce Lee
During my adolescence Bruce Lee was a hero of mine.
He was a minority hero who broke down racial barriers.
I remember seeing a documentary about Lee. It interviewed famous black Americans who considered Lee a hero of theirs as well just because he wasn't white (and he could kick butt like no one else).
I bought this book back in the 80's and still have it.
There's philosophy, art and, of course, martial arts.
It is a testimony to a truly fascinating life.
I don't agree with all the philosophy, but I appreciate the depths to which Bruce Lee lived his art.
I don't have the exact read start and finish dates on many books I have read this year. The dates are approximated, as I have been in & out of the hospital, and on bed rest, and read 2-5 books a day depending on the book & length and my ability to focus. All dates are approximated, by month.I have studied this book since I was 9....
So good. No one says it better than Bruce Lee himself... "Self-knowledge is the basis of Jeet Kun Do because it is effective, not only for the individual's martial art, but also for his life as a human being."What an honor it must have been to have known him.
This is a collection of tips and techniques from Bruce Lee about his martial arts technique.
I think it would be most helpful as a martial arts/jeet kune do reference manual and improvement guide, including not only the movements and musculature necessary but also the mental focus and way of thought.
The whole collection of material gives some insight into Bruce Lee's way of thinking--perhaps most especially the diagrams, drawings and hand-written notes by BL scattered through the text.
Even as such it's a difficult read--there are many sections that are just collections of essentially one-liners, frequently overlapping each other in material and even words, and then at other times barely related to each other.
There is a reason why, more than 20 years after his death, that Bruce Lee is still getting articles about his way and his own personal technique written in magazines and why he is still revered by so many. This book is a good example of the reasons why. The important thing though is to learn from his example, understand it, and then create your own method instead of just following it.
Great book with detailed information about Jeet Kune Do and the philosophy behind it. Although it's incomplete but it's satisfying to read Lee's philosophy. A must read for those who are interested in this matter.
He was concerned that, once named, his approach to Martial Arts could be misinterpreted or exploited.Anyway, 40 years after Bruce Lee's death, this volume and the 4 paperback volumes of "Bruce Lee's Fighting Method" (now also available in one Hardcover volume) offer, in my opinion, the best overview of his practical and philosophical views on unarmed combat.
The "Tao of Jeet Kune Do" is a comprehensive collection of Bruce's writings and drawings on a variety of Martial Arts topics...
Since each section is a compilation of separate notes, there is much duplication of material, but I never felt this was a problem.
It is there where Bruce Lee is most poignant.What brought me to this book:I've been looking for books that refer to methodologies of operating with a clear mind.
I know the concept is covered in meditation books—but I felt they might go too far into the meditation aspects and not in the ‘meditation’ as a way of engaging in life.A mentor recalled that Bruce Lee touches on this topic in this book.
More specifically through mental mastery, he mastered his body.Philosophical points:In the book Bruce Lee outlines his philosophical underpinnings for his great achievement.
В детстве мне хотелось быть похожей на него, мы с отцом смотрели фильмы, где Брюс, hot and sexy, виртуозно поражал врагов, и это было прекрасно, словно весна.
Скажи их кто-нибудь другой, ты бы мог проигнорировать, но когда ты представляешь, как эти слова выходят изо рта Брюса Ли, они наполняются особенной силой, весом, ты начинаешь пытаться понимать.
Интересно также было узнать, что Брюс Ли не принимал религию и прочее перекладывание ответственности за свои поступки, призывал отказываться от клетки правил в бою и так далее.
"Если вы хотите, чтобы открылась истина, никогда не будьте ни «за», ни «против».
I’ve seen all his movies, and his TV shows like The Green Hornet and Longside, and admire his philosophical messages on life.This book discusses how Jeet Kune Do is not just some fighting style, or like what Mr. Lee said, “organised despair”, it was rather an “art of expressing the human body” by pushing to their fullest potential, with no limitations.Each page has what reminds me of stanzas in a poem, 10 rows with two to three sentences each.
This felt like meditation, showing me how our minds can affect our outcomes.
On the one hand, this is a glimpse into the notebooks of arguably the most important person in the popularisation of martial arts and a good look at the training philosophy of someone whose approaches to breaking down the formality of traditional martial arts have really taken off in the past thirty years.On the other hand, we have to remember that what a book does for the reader is also important.
It's not going to provide the kind of clear insight into Bruce Lee's life that a good biography might.
this is a game changer....everyone takes something different from this book, it's so open to many interpretations but the best part about it is the fact you really get to dive into Bruce Lee's mind.
you get to see what he was thinking, what he was trying to accomplish and most of all a way of life.
if you're an athelte who lifts or plays ball you'll learn something.
if you're a Buddhist or Christian looking for a new spritual perspective you'll learn something.
if you're wandering aimlessly in life and looking to find a path, a way, or "TAO" you'll learn something.
Concrete no-nonsense martial arts. Very good for the martial artist and athlete alike. This book really encouraged me to branch out in Martial Arts and learn the traditional sports like wrestling and boxing.
Yes!
Great book from a great man
This is what certainly drew me into Bruce Lee. This view that learning is a constructive process, and not an end, and this comes through in the beginning of this book as he discusses his philosophy and mental approach to martial arts.
Many take Bruce's philosophy of "absorbing what is useful, discarding what is useful and adding what is uniquely your own" to mean that once liberated from the classical mess, you are permitted to construct your own subjective take on martial arts.
What he sought out to do in response to the classical mess of martial arts was create a more applicable, constructive, and adaptable fighting method, based on the concepts of simplicity, directness and being alive.
I was twelve and it was my birthday.
After school, I went to a bookstore and bought a paperback of this literary work of art.
It's good to revisit this book once more now that I'm 33.
If Bruce Lee achieved so much that actors his age weren't able to, it's because his growth mindset, drive, and passion for his work enabled him to thrive in his colourful but sadly, short life.
Give this book a read to get a glimpse of how the amazing Bruce Lee was as a mentor.
An incomplete guide to "emptying your cup so that it may be filled again".
Gathered from Bruce's writings and sketches, this book teaches you the philosophy behind Jeet Kune Do. This book is a must-read for anyone doing martial arts.
Techniques, practices, motivation, reasons.
"Take what is useful and develop from there." The best parts of this book are the very first and last pages.
They offer you topics to meditate, think and discuss upon.If you are not that much into martial arts, get this book for an hour or two and read the best parts.
It's your daily dose of Zen.
Very informative and a great look into Bruce's mind when it came to the martial arts. This would make a great read for anyone that has ever been a fan of his or even had the slightest interest in martial arts.Learn about Jeet Kune Do. What it is and the idea behind the style. Follow that up with Bruce's views on becoming a better fighter from coordination to power and endurance both body and mind.
I purchased this book right after watching the movie "Dragon: The Bruce Lee Story." It took me a year to absorbed and strive to apply all the philosophy in it. I still have the original book I purchased, and it is filled with my personal notes, observations, and references. 10 Stars if I could rate it that many!

I love bruce lee.
Holy crap.
This book was short and sweet.
full of anecdotes on fighting.
His sheer understanding of the physics, biology and the anatomy and physiology of the body is amazing.
The man clearly saw martial arts as a science and an art.
If you follow his methods.
You will be calm.
Happy and protected.
This was a great book honestly for anyone.
I consider it great self help I recommend this for those who read zen in the martial arts, and have a general interest in fighting and how fighting can be turned into a science
