https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32530.The_Third_Victim
Lorraine "Rainie" Connor is a police officer in the small town of Bakersville, Oregon and has just been called to a shooting at the K-8 school.
But is it a coincidence that the only two living students left in the school are the sheriff's children?Bakersville is a small idyllic town where everyone knows everyone.
Bakersville being a small town though there is still some talk that Rainie did in fact kill her mother and what roll the sheriff may have had in getting the case dropped.
He arrives in Bakersville to study the latest in a sad string of school shootings.
I've been a fan of Lisa Gardner for years and this book is the first book Quincy and Rainie appear together.
Rainie is a small-town cop, and Quincy is an FBI Profiler drawn to her town when a school shooting happens.
Her performance didn't turn me off of the story, probably because I've read it so many times before, but I wouldn't recommend it.
If you haven't read a Lisa Gardner book before The Third Victim is a perfect place to start.
Watching as she sees parents, teachers and children all running around frantic she quickly discovers that already there are a couple of children dead and several others injured.Not knowing if the shooter is still inside the school, Rainie enters slowly and with plenty of caution.
Rainie is in disbelief at what she is seeing thinking it's not possible that Shep's son is the shooter.
There is just something about Lisa Gardner's books that are not only thrilling, but they seem to get you hooked from page one right through to the last page.
Only safe and secure in today can we be smug about yesterday, even though it was us standing bare in that yesterday.Since we are talking about this, so on similar thought, though the book is set around 1999/2000 and Internet and the whole online scene was still in its nascent stages, was still reasonable hadn't imploded like it is now with social media, even then our crusaders (great chemistry there ; I loved the protagonist, she was something else) so yeah even then they should have checked the computers first, you know, just saying ?
Really liked Ms Gardner's writing. This one had a really interesting plot and great characters.
This story is a detective who-done-it of a school shooting in a small town in Oregon.It follows the formula of a good build-up, a good mystery, and reasonably credible characters – but I found the resolution very unconvincing.
OK – we know who did it, so that’s good.But several things I just couldn’t buy into:(view spoiler)[We are never told of the actual mechanics of the school shooting.
Speaking of his father (the town sheriff), why was he never brought in for questioning by our many investigators?How did our main character, Rainee, walk so easily into the juvenile detention centre and get Danny to spill the “beans”?
The real world can, and often does, suck.
We all know there are "bad guys/gals" out there and silently pray that they don't enter our own little piece of the world, but for far too many, they do enter, and consume their lives.
This is a well told story of a terrible act and the woman who fights against her own demons to bring the true killer to justice.
If you want to get a good grasp of the difference between serial killers and mass murderers, Lisa did her research; you can learn something here.
Another great read by Lisa Gardner- 3.5 - to 4.0 for me- Sometimes I get a little tired of the thriller, killer, serial psycho nut jobs that seems not only to focus on 'someone' but also they have to focus on someone (male or female) that is in law enforcement as well. Having said that- the book kept my interest and of course at some point I will pick up number 3 in this series!
Educational, educational, educational--boy, can we tell that Lisa Gardner did a bunch of research on mass murderers vs. serial killers and various homocidal types. Which she dumped on us in dialogue. Ugh. Very slooooooow plot.Mostly I was interested in Rainie and Quincy's backstory. Eh.
Totally addicted to these characters already! While I was definitely on the edge of my seat for much of the suspense, I mostly couldn't wait to get back to Quincy and Rainie and their lives. Can't wait to read more.
This book deals with school shootings, in particular a young boy who opens fire in his K-8 grade school.
When the smoke clears, a teacher is dead along with 2 eight year old girls, and a young boy is holding the proverbial smoking guns!
Lots of red herrings, guestimations, and finger pointing in this book.
Plus add in a female cop with a tortured past - gotta love it.
For me, there was a wow I didn't see that coming - which I truly love in a book.4 stars and 2 thumbs up!
I think the less you know going into the series the better.
The book opens up with Officer Rainie who is complaining about how slow the crime is in Bakersville, Oregon.
Be careful what you wish for Rainie because a school shooting has just occurred.
Rainie is thrown into the politics of the school shooting.
She needs to figure out who has committed the crime, well also respecting those families who the shooting has affected.
I also loved the relationship between FBI profiler Quincy and Officer Rainie.
This was the first book in the series that Rainie was introduced and I really hearing her backstory.
Amazon says:"Rainie Conner initially joined the small-town police force in Bakersville, Ore., to escape the ghosts of her past.
When she responds to a call from the local school and discovers students screaming, bodies lying inert in the rooms and one young boy holding two guns, however, Rainie find herself leading a controversial investigation and struggling to contain her childhood memories.
The fact that the boy is the son of the town sheriff, Rainie's superior and friend, only intensifies the pressure Rainie endures from members of the community, the FBI and the media.
This is author I've enjoyed over the years and " The Third Victim" was well done. She seems to always write about Oregon but supposedly resides in New England. This story is about a small town that has a school shooting. The sheriff's son is found holding two guns when the homicide squad enters the school. I was fond of Officer Rainie Conner who led the investigation. Very good murder mystery.
Il très bon thriller... Cette auteur est très douée pour construire des histoires ou meurtre psychologie et sentiment se mêlent très bien.
Another great book by Lisa Gardner.
Officer Rainie Connor finds herself leading her first homicide investigation.
The horrific crime has devastated the small town of Bakersville, Oregon.
Rainie finds that the crime hits very close to home and it brings back her own nightmare that happened fourteen years ago.
FBI Profiler Pierce Quincy, is the best of the best and he finds himself drawn to Rainie in a way he has never been drawn to a female before.
A must read if you like a suspense crime novel, this is definitely the book for you!
This book actually was a mystery/thriller.
It's not exactly a shock when the killer is uncovered because the person was always a suspect...but there was really no evidence that would've made that person really stick out or that would've made you lean toward them over any other suspect.
Even once the killer is revealed everything wraps up fast and gets glossed over-motive, past crimes, the significance of the title of the book.
She would be soooo much better off just sticking to to the thriller part of the books and avoiding any romance at all.
This book is about a school shooting in a small town in Oregon and is the first book that Rainie and Quincey appear together.
Rainie is the cop tasked with unraveling the mystery of who is really behind the shooting and has demons of her own to deal with.
FBI Profiler Quincey is dealing with his ex-wife and the decision they must make to take their daughter off life support after a horrific car accident.
Quincey and Rainie are drawn to each other both personally and professionally but Rainie can't quite let go of her demons.
The Third Victim (Lisa Gardner)Another good psychological thriller from Lisa Gardner.Rainie Connor is a police officer in a small town in Oregon.
An unthinkable and tragic crime happens and Sheriff Shep is caught in this web.
His son has confessed to the crime, but is he the perpetrator, or could he be a victim.
Having her friend Shep's son as prime suspect , does not make this easier.
Soon she must come to terms with her demons from the past.
A secret so devastating is has haunted her for the past 14 years.
All I will say it was ok.
picked up today at the doctors office. they have a shelf that had books in that u can pick up and read. very interesting
These are quality books. Lisa Garnder is the real deal!
A wonderful mystery thriller with a lot of suspense and action that youwon't want to put down until you finish. The setting is the small town ofBakersville, Oregon where Rainie Connor is a homicide detective leadingher first homicide case with the help of FBI profiler Pierce Quincy. The casedelves into Rainie's background and reveals what actually happened toher fourteen years earlier.. It is well written with a good plot and characters.Enjoy!!
I wrote my review in the update. It’s the only way I’ve figured out to have pic of book and author. Very good book and series. I’m definitely going to read the next one.
This was another great book by Lisa Gardner with lots of twists and turns and no obvious solutions.
Great storyline, however based on a school shooting, parts of the story pretty upsetting... Love how the Detectives and FBI profilers work together to get the job done!!!
Weer een goed boek, toch ook wel een goede serie. Ik ben benieuwd naar deel 3.
I enjoyed the story but didn't care for the audiobook narration.
Il n’y a donc pas vraiment de problèmes ici avec cette histoire.Nous découvrons dès le début de l’histoire : Rainie, un agent de police dans une petite ville de province.
On sait très bien de par son attitude que Rainie veut se livrer et se débarrasser du fardeau qu’elle porte et en même temps elle le refuse catégoriquement.Pour ce qui est de l’enquête de meurtre, c’est vrai que le lecteur sait parfaitement dès le début de l’histoire qu’il existe un meurtrier autre que cet enfant, mais nous ne savons pas véritablement s’il y a un ou deux coupables.
Lorraine (Rainie)Connor is a police officer in the small town of Bakersville, Oregon and has just been called to a shooting at the K though 8 School where the Sherrif's two children attend.
Two eight year old girls and a teacher have all been shot and killed and several other children wounded.
As Rainie carefully and slowly moves through the halls, a classroom door opens and the Sherrif comes out with his hands up and his own thirteen year old son, Danny, is holding a gun in each of his hands.
