https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/125286.The_Beak_of_the_Finch
Neither too dry nor too familiar, Weiner's writing is as wonderful as his subject matter.Rosemary and Peter Grant are two evolutionary biologists who did what no one had attempted to do before: beginning in the early 70's, they studied, measured, and documented every detail of the finches on Daphne Major, one of the Galapagos islands, in an effort to determine if evolutionary changes could be observed over a span of decades instead of eons.
I'm ashamed to say that I didn’t know until recently (after reading Dawkins’ magnificent book The Ancestor’s Tale) that evolution can in fact be observed happening in real time and not only in as short a time as centuries, but also in decades and even years.
The Beak of the Finch had some very interesting ideas about the different paths evolution follows under different circumstances, such as when a species is being subjected to opposing selection forces by both sexual and natural selections, or when droughts and floods occur in successions.
"We are doing what the dinosaurs did before us, only faster.We bring strangers together to make strange bedfellows, and we remake the beds they lie in, all at once."
As Jonathan Weiner points out in this classic of science writing, the word "evolution" comes from the Latin word for unfolding, rolling out like a scroll.That's an appropriate concept for this book, which unfurls before the reader an impressive array of late-20th-century scientific research into natural selection, sexual selection and speciation – all of it hammering home again and again: Not only was Darwin right, he was righter than he knew.As the book's title implies, Weiner focuses on Darwin's finches, the baker's dozen of Galapagos species whose beaks so aptly tell the tale of adaptation and selection.
This was a really interesting look into the constant evolution of finches in the Galapagos.
Parts of it were a little slow (and I definitely got bogged down by the constant repetition of "beak" and "finch," though that probably couldn't be helped, given the subject), but other parts were very interesting.
I can see why he would do it because it's interesting to think about human evolution through the lens of finches, but it seemed like a weird transition to me.
Overall, this was pretty quick and interesting to read, even if I probably won't ever need to know anything about finches again.
The Beak of the Finch is an excellent introduction to contemporary evolutionary theory. There was quite a lot of detail about studies into the Galapagos finches, which was great! The finches & how quickly they are evolving is super interesting. I also have a new found appreciation for the lengths that ecologists go to for their field work. I think that this book struck a nice balance between hard science, human interest, history and philosophy. It is nice to learn a bit about the scientists' lives, while still having the book firmly focused on their scientific achievements.
In 1973 Rosemary and Peter Grant went to the Galapagos Islands to take a look at Darwin's finches.
The Grants went to see if they could observe evolution in action as they felt that even Darwin did not completely understand his own theory and the evolutionary process was not always the slow and gradual one he believed it to be.
In the approximately 30 years that the Grant's and their various assistants have been watching, these tiny birds have shown a remarkable ability to quickly adapt to changes in the environment, climate, and other pressures that nature puts in their path.
For most people with a high school education, natural selection, at the level depicted in the book, is pure common sense.
However, the book invites you experience every trial and tribulation of the marooned Galapagian finches and of the pathetic scientists who waste their lives watching and measuring them.
However, mere natural selection does not alone give you "evolution." The book only dabbles in the critical issue of speciation.
(1) Some readers may be surprised to discover what natural selection is, having neither any education nor imagination that would have previously acquainted them with the idea.
This was a buddy read with my Pulitzer-non fiction-group, and after 10 pages, I ordered Charles Darwins The origin of Species from the library, as I could read between the lines, that some of my fellow group members had read it (The Origin)- and since there were many references to Darwin in Weiners book, I decided to read Darwin first. Well good thing that I did, because in The Beak of the Finch there are references to Darwin throughout the entire book. You can read it anyway, but I strongly rec
This was a buddy read with my Pulitzer-non fiction-group, and after 10 pages, I ordered Charles Darwin´s The origin of Species from the library, as I could read between the lines, that some of my fellow group members had read it (The Origin)- and since there were many references to Darwin in Weiner´s book, I decided to read Darwin first.
I found it funny to bring stories like a naked Ian Abbott meating a barnacle beak: Abbot squatted on his haunches, watching as the sun set on the neighboring island of Santa Cruz, and hundreds of seabirds beat their way back to their roosts on Daphne Major.
A description of evolution research and results mostly in the Galapagos Island and mostly on the famous "Darwin Finches" with references to the research that Darwin himself conducted and the (wrong and right) conclusions that he came to.It seems that I have read so many books about Darwin's "On the Origin of Species" and so many books that refer to "On the Origin of Species" that it is about time I read "On the Origin of Species"…… To some extent, it is like the Bible, I prefer to read references, books about and interpretations of the Bible than reading the book itself…….
Lần này thì không thể đổ lỗi cho non-fiction là khó đọc :((Đầu tiên là quá thán phục cặp vợ chồng Grant dành hết đời sống ở quần đảo trứ danh trong thuyết tuyến hóa, những nhà khoa học yêu nghề có rất nhiều (trong sách nhắc đến hơn chục nhà), nhưng chẳng được nhắc mấy trong giới công chúng, mà toàn tràn ngập những nghệ sĩ nửa vời trên báo.
The single best non-academic, book-length riposte to doubters of natural selection. Brilliant and accessible to readers without any special scientific background, patient and uncondescending toward creationists (though firmly dismissing creationist claims), it made for the perfect accompaniment to my recent Galapagos island trip. You will also learn more about — and enjoy learning more about — finches, and El Niños, and the Humboldt current, and Darwinian angst than you ever thought possible.
This work expands upon the two biographies I read recently about Charles Darwin and evolution.
The setting is a tiny island called Daphne Major in the Galapago Islands, and the work is about a 21 year finch study conducted by Rosemary and Peter Grant.
I had a lot of questions as I read the book, and pretty much all of them were answered by the time I got to the end.
Questions like how do pesticides and antibiotics make creatures evolve, and why don't humans show the variations that Daphne Major finches do?
Lots of people I know rave about this book, but my feeling was….
Unless you are an avid bird-enthusiast, this book feels very repetitive, and overly complimentary to the Grants, almost as if it were an advertisement for their work.
They are wonderful people (I met them recently when they came to my university to give a talk) but if Jonathon Weiner spent so much time with them, didn’t he observe anything less flattering?
Didn’t she ever want to become a professor, too?
I wish Jonathon Weiner had included tension in the book, it would have made it infinitely more interesting.
This book is really important.
The study of how micro-evolution happens from one year to the next to the next in the Galapagos gave me a lot of insight into how the environment shapes species.
Traits are constantly changing, yet the graph jitters back and forth around some more-or-less average value.
It's really not average, though, because climate, rainfall, etc.
are all fundamentally chaotic systems.
Over geologic time that can either result in vast changes or effective stasis, depending on the situation.
It's cool to picture how macro-evolution happens as a result of thousands of years of micro-evolution.
It got repetitive. Let me some up. No rain: things happen to the finches and certain types are selected. Lots of rain: things happen to the finches and certain types are selected. #no spoilers on what. It was interesting the quotes from Darwin and the implications on modern results. As a none scientist, it dragged on a little to much for me to follow.
Good book. I found just about every chapter interesting, but my attention would wane by the end of each chapter. Once I got the gist of the chapter’s content, the second and third examples were oftentimes unnecessary. Well structured and well written. I can see why it won a Pulitzer.
Without being condescending, he explains why evolution is accessible knowledge and important to understand.
Loosely following the decades-long study of Galapagos finches by Peter and Rosemary Grant, this book explains evolution in real time with the help of real people.
For example, what would consciousness be naturally selected for in humans?
At the same time, it's always seemed to me that humans have lived a particularly charmed evolutionary existence - walking upright, thumbs, language, brains that are far more developed that any other animal.
Read this book and I promise that you'll have plenty to say the next time the dreaded topic of science comes up in conversation.
Let's start here: Someone really should invent a new word.
Evolution, like gravity, is fact.
It's far beyond theory status, as most people seem to use and understand the word.
And dammit; it's not something you "believe" in (that would be like saying you believe in dirt).
Clearly written, fascinating, enjoyable, clear, focused and concise, directed toward the layman but backed up with real science, verifiable facts and an ultimately undeniable thesis make for a book that should be required reading for everyone (it will be for my kids).The book seems to lose some steam towards the end as the author tries to make some larger points.
Especially poignant this month that we commemorate the 200th anniversary of Charles Darwin’s birth, and the 150th anniversary of the publication of his “The Origin of the Species.” Weiner’s book details the study of Darwin’s finches by Princeton evolutionary biologists: Peter and Rosemary Grant.
The Grants monitored every single finch on the island of Daphne Major in the Galápagos Islands over more than two decades.
Charles Darwin himself would have loved this book even though it proved part of his treatise wrong.
As Darwin surmised (and the Grants demonstrate how) the numerous finch species that live isolated on these tiny islands all emerged from only one mainland species.
Really interesting and very well narrated, but I will admit I got reeeally sick of hearing, "natural selection scrutinizes daily and hourly..." First of all, natural selection is not a dude with a magnifying glass.
He said it about seven or eight times in the first fourth or so of the book.
Anyway, I enjoyed it, but am not convinced it was Pulitzer Prize-worthy.
But then, it's the rare Pulitzer Prize winner that I do enjoy or am even interested in, so, as I have stated many a time, I may just have poor taste.
In this book Jonathan Weiner shows us that natural selection is neither rare nor slow: it is taking place by the hour, and we can watch.
If this notion thrills you, you will love this book.
-- humans, too.
Weiner puts the microscope on enterobacteria in the human gut as they react to antibiotics, and he puts the lens on the Heliothis moth as it evolves to resist pesticides in the cotton fields.
Finally, he zooms back to show us that planet Earth is our Daphne Major, and that the variable human mind is our beak.
Timely for me since we were visiting Galapagos Isles while I read this. A great summary of best of where evolutionary science is heading...with Darwin's Galapagos finch as stars of the show with current research that is revolutionizing how we 'see' evolution in action. Great science writer...Pulitzer Prize in 95 for this book.
One of the best books about evolution and science ever written. Read this, and then read The Voyage of the Beagle by Darwin.
Great beginning and end, but it was a bit slow for me in the middle.
[also recommended by Fabricio on MV Origin]
It’s the story of evolution on the Galápagos archipelago, via the study of Darwin’s finches by a team of scientists led by Peter and Rosemary Grant of Princeton University.
AND – it’s written like a thriller.Me – I don’t need to be convinced – I’ve been an evolutionist since my first Anthropology class, back in ’68, “Beginnings Of Mankind.” I was an Evolutionary Psychologist before the words joined and evolved into a new Field of study.
Not all that dissimilar from Tolstoy’s “coincidence of circumstance,” or DeLillo’s “infinite regression,” or Wallace’s “permutations of complications.”Upon reading this book, in the winter of 2015, I thought … maybe there’s another mechanism of evolution besides natural and sexual selection?
I started it from the airplane leaving the Galapagos.
From my window I could see the harsh hat-shaped island of Daphne Major where Peter and Rosemary Grant have spent countless hours with their associates measuring every finch and every component interconnected to the lives of these small birds to watch evolution happening in front of their eyes.
I appreciated both the proof that the ensuing data provides for natural selection and evolution which Darwin could only logically assume as well as the implications for how we treat the planet and plan strategies for intervention from antibiotics to species introduction.
(Full disclosure: my fantasy football team is called Darwin's Finches.) One thing the book does well is explain how Peter and Rosemary Grant, the married biologist couple who did most of the research between the 1970s and 90s, collected their data, analysed it, and reached their conclusions--great info on how science is done on the ground.
I thought a book this old might feel outdated, but the detailed descriptions of direct biological data gathering felt very fresh to me.
