https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/643898.Cue_for_Treason
I say HAD to, but after the first chapter I secretly enjoyed HAVING to read it.
It later helped me to enjoy Shakespeare a little more, as I understood more of the background of Shakespeare and what it was he did and where he was in the world.
We even had to do a big bristol board layout of the Globe Theatre, so that was helpful, later on, too.
I have re-read this book in the last ten year, and will do so again in the future.
This book definitely got me hooked on Shakespearean and Elizabethan times!
This book was amazing. The descriptions, while a bit hard for me to picture since I'm not familiar with what the English countryside looked like in the Shakespearian era, were beautiful. The whole thing was fast paced, kept you guessing till the very end, and, the end. I love it WAY too much. It was surprisingly easy to read despite it being set in the time of Shakespeare. I'd recommend this to anyone who likes action, adventure and historical fiction.
I've been reading this book for school.it is actually quite interesting and I really enjoyed. It was quick paced and interesting.
And yes it was as good as I remember.The plot is as follows: Peter Brownrigg, a boy growing up in the Lake District in Elizabethan England, becomes involved in a local rebellion against a mean and unscrupulous landowner.
They travel south to London, and it is here that Peter learns of a treasonous plot against the Queen.I won't tell any more, other than that it has lots of suspense and adventure.
One thing I learnt from it but had forgotten where, and made me laugh when I re-read it, was a cure for a stitch: touch your knee with your chin, or chin with your knee!
As is the case with most children's books, author Trease sanitizes Shakespeare and rather softens the Queen.
It's always interesting to read books set during her reign and find out whether the author knows the real history or believes the revisionist history written by English "historians." Trease doesn't really commit himself to either version of history, although he makes a passing remark about her Faith not being the same Faith that previous monarchs had held.
"Cue for Treason" is a pretty good, exciting book (probably aimed for the Hardy Boys/Nancy Drew age group), with a dash of seemingly unbiased history.
I liked this book. It was interesting, and had a good plot. It was about boring in the start, but it got interesting, and I liked how they added in Shakespeare. I just didn't find it very interesting. 3 stars.
I had to read this for grade 9 English, and I loved it. I read ahead, alot, one of the best books I have ever read. Full of action and things I never expected. My favourite character was Kit. I highly suggest everyone read this book.
Read for gr. 9 EnglishWell, about a month later...I'm done!It was actually a pretty good book, for a school book
Very good.
Not great, to me, on the level of _A Traveller In Time_ or _Minnow On The Say_.
Which I was hoping for, but you can't have everything.
:) The characters are a bit too generic for that, though I did like Kit a lot.
Limiting Shakespeare's time on stage seems wise, especially when he was portrayed with a bit of a halo.
But the book probably ended up less about theatre than I hoped.
We got chases across mountains, instead, and I must say those were very good.
But _Cue For Treason_ is still good enough to recommend.
I have it in the back of my head to read this book again for years.
It was used in my junior high English class as an introduction of Shakespeare's world and I loved it.
I was curious if a 25 year gap had coloured my memory but reading it again now proved just as rewarding.
Yes, this is a book written for a young adult audience but it is more than accessible at any age.
If you read this when you were younger, I highly recommend giving it another go.
If you have never read it before, then it is definitely worth picking up for the first time!
How did my mother never give me a Geoffrey Trease historical fiction book when I was young? How did she moss them? I was made aware of this author at a Women's month Historical Fiction day at the Eltham Library Victoria, and thought. I would find a copy of his books to read. I now know the name of another historical fiction writer for younger readers that I will highly recommend. Well paced, good tension and let's you understand a bit of history.
A fun Elizabethan adventure story for youngsters, with Shakespeare, a roving acting company, and spies.
I really enjoyed this! A fun story with a compelling conspiracy.
This book made me really bored... I read three other books while reading it
Delightful read. I enjoyed the book
I loved the mystery and suspense in this novel! Read it with my grade 9 English students and they enjoyed the plot as well.
This was one of the first novels I read as a adolescent. Absolutely loved it.
Reasonably paced historical fiction for kids. Somewhat anachronistic.
The ending was so unsatisfying
However before you read Cue for Treason you need to know its history, or at least I thought it was useful to know it.
Another few things I forgave because of the book's purpose was the sappy ending- the girl and the boy get married despite the clash of their social classes, they live in a big house, have children, don't get punished, and they all live happily ever after.
But that was how people would have seen Hitler during WWII, so again the book's history saves it from my criticism.
It has been some time since I read a Tudor themed novel and, even though this is mainly for Young Adults, I LOVE the setting, the plot, and the Shakespeare/players tie-in.
;))Interesting descriptions of the Cumberland countryside lent an authentic feel to this gripping and mysterious tale of a young boy determined to put a stop to a band of treasonous men if it's the last thing he does- which, in a few cases, it almost is!
Any and all historical fiction (Elizabethan/Shakespearean) lovers will enjoy this book, and I would especially recommend to YA boys.
The story is set in Elizabethan England and is based around Peter, a 14 year old runaway who ends up an actor for a playing company.
She is also a runaway to avoid being married to Sir Phillip who only wants to marry her for her inheritance.
Sir Phillip is also the man Peter is running away from.Peter and Kit get caught up in Elizabethan politics and have adventures together.
Throughout their adventures they encoutner several important historical figures such as Queen Elizabeth and William Shakespheare.I really enjoying reading this book and following Peter and Kit as they unravel the conspiracal plan which invloves a plot to assasinate the Queen and install a new regime in England.
Grade 9 English syllabus included this book.
I quite adore conversations about Shakespeare and have obviously read a few Shakespeare biographies as well as novels where he's a character.
This book includes the girl-pretending-to-be-a-boy-to-act plot, which is such a dead horse trope that somehow bothers me a lot.
I dislike that its used as a short-cut in writing female characters in historical fiction in the hopes of making them "relatable" to modern young readers.
I also generally dislike the way Shakespeare is portrayed in fictional media and for that reason cannot understand why I willingly consume it whenever available and considered writing a thesis about it.
A good historical fiction novel, a bit old-fashioned, but since it takes place in Elizabethan England (1590's) it doesn't feel too dated.
The plot, which involves a 15-year old boy fleeing for his life from an unjust nobleman, joining up with a traveling group of theatrical players, making his way to London, and eventually helping foil a plot to murder the Queen is pure balderdash, but author Geoffrey Trease keeps things moving at a good clip, and the story never drags.
It's an old-fashioned adventure story, with a good sense of time and place.

An appealing historical novel for pre-teens. One of my favorites as a kid. Cool plot about a girl trying to break into the Elizabethan theatre world - and so compelled to impersonate a boy who happens to be surprisingly natural at playing female Shakespearean roles! She meets Will and other greats, and gets into an exciting, dangerous adventure that is related to the gunpowder plot, if I recall correctly. Well written in the British style. Maybe it seems dated now, but I'm surprised it hasn't gotten higher ratings.
Interesting as a youthful period piece introducing young readers to Shakespearean England, which is no doubt why it is so widely used that way in schools across North America. But as a novel? For me, the action is straightforward and predictable, the characters uncomplicated and static, and there are entirely too many hokey coincidences. Written in the 1940s, Cue for Treason bears the stamp of its era in the way that the Narnia books show their age, but without the thematic depth that would make it as timeless and fresh as C.S. Lewis's series.
I had to read this particular book in grade 9 as part of our curriculum and was glad that I got the chance to do so. Overall a very simple read and quite enjoyable. With the main character on the run from the law, bumping into character such as Shakespeare and queen Elizabeth, all while trying to prove his innocence!! I won't give away the ending for those who haven't read it, but if you're looking for a quick read with a little adventure, you can't go wrong with this one.
Required reading in Grade 7 I think.Story set in late 1500 early 1600s England when Elizabeth 1st rules. Follows the adventures of a boy and a girl as they travel across England in a theater group.They encounter Will Shakespeare and Richard Burbage and even save the life of the queen when they come upon a conspiracy to execute her.One of the few required reading books in school that I enjoyed. Great adventure story with a historical background.
