https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13105.The_Tenth_Insight
We can will and create almost anything we wish, but real fulfillment comes only when we first tune into our inner direction and divine guidance.Real healing takes place when we can envision a new kind of future for ourselves that excites us.Inspiration is what keeps us well.Self-imposed hell.
There is no conspiratorial evil in the world, no satanic plot to which we fall prey - there is only human fear, and the bizarre ways that humans try to ward it off.
References to Satan are a metaphor, a symbolic way of warning people to look to the divine for security, not to their sometimes tragic ego urges and habits.
I found The Tenth Insight to be even more powerful than The Celestine Prophecy. Putting all of the spiritual lessons we have learned to work and keeping our vibration high will take practice, but the more confident and solid we are in our knowing of our paths, the stronger we will be. Throuth this allegory, of sorts, Redfield has described how it can work, even with the dark trying to close in. Light and love is always the answer.
This book did not provide me with more answers to life. Instead, it left me with more questions. Personally, I've discovered it's the "questions" that I cherish most, more so than hoping for a discovery, a revelation. I don't expect I'll ever have those answers about life's journey even if I lived many lifetimes. That's okay. I remember back in my college days when one of my professors said, " when you graduate and discover that you have more questions than answers than when you first came here, then you will have had a great education." He was right.
Now why did I chose this life experience? To enter into a family that would abandon me, sexual abuse, child abuse... co-dependant relationships? Yes.. I see so that I would evolve from a consciouness of fear to a consciousness of Love. To reunite with All That Is. To show the way of the Dragon.Definately read this one.
I loved the Celestine Prophecy so much that I had to get this book. I tried to read it back in 2006 and couldn't get all the way through it. I have tried again this past month and am down to the last 50 pages or so, but have put it down again in favor of several other recommended books.This book does not grip me the way Celestine did; it seems forced and a little too out there for me. I don't walk away feeling "enlightened" or feeling like I can relate to it.
Our greatest mistake, in my opinion, is to think that human spirituality is somehow already understood and established...
Actual note found inside a library copy of this book, so I'm posting it for posterity and giving it one star.
Judging from the movie adaptation that I watched a few years ago, I would have to agree with the reviewer below.-MC"Dear Cheryl,The Tenth Insight soon lost me.
After page 130 I had trouble making sense of it.
I could follow connecting with the spiritual energy within.
I could follow Redfield's being mad at what the white man did to the Indian, and building that into his story.
The Celestine Prophecy was great but in the Tenth Insight, for me James Redfield got lost.(signed) Dad"
A very insightful (no pun intended) book. The Tenth Insight is very complex, as it involves several different things at the same time:- Recognition of more than the physical (Earthly) dimension – similar to the second insight- Remembering who one is via one’s birth vision –what is your mission on Earth? – and whether one is focused enough and disciplined enough respectively, to fulfilling the birth vision and bringing it about- Recognizing in remembering one’s birth vision that one also has a bi
Yes, the story unfolds as coincidental, but that is the first insight (from the previous book) all over again … the lesson is, we need to be(come) aware of those coincidences and recognize what they mean and the purpose(s) they are to fulfill.
Gelezen aug. 1996
It is the second book in The Celestine Prophecy series.
There were a lot of moments where the narrator was thrust into this non physical spiritual world and that was pretty cool.
I liked the developing relationships between characters and hope that is explored more in the last two books.
Did I Like It?:I really liked this second book in The Celestine Prophecy series!
I’m really liking this series so far and am stoked to have found a spiritual adventure series.
If you have read the first one and liked it, then I definitely recommend picking up the second one!
So our hero goes on a quest to regain his hold of all the previous insights, the tenth insight and, oh yeah, his reporter friend has gone missing.He comes across Wil (remember Wil, the native Peruvian with the non-Peruvian name) who is now an interdimentional traveler (I guess the ninth insight does more than make you invisible) and an evil power generating experiment that has a bunch of people in the other dimension a little nervous.
His efforts are disrupting the souls in The Afterlife, and creating earthquakes.Nameless Narrator must track down the Tenth Insight, find some folks in the forest, and stop Feyman.The hitch:The Tenth Insight isn't written down anywhere.
That's why Nameless Narrator needs to find some other folks in the forest.Cue stupidity:The Tenth Insight says we all live multiple lives (see Eastern philosophy, subject "reincarnation").
Each person's soul has a mission designed to help it achieve the World Vision.
If the soul is to fulfill its mission, the person must find the Insights and integrate them into his/her life.
We know that after death, we have to look at our lives again; and we’re going to agonize over every missed opportunity, over every case in which we failed to act.
We’re living life in a more deliberate way.
We don’t want to miss a single important event.
An exciting, revealing, motivating book that wasn't meant as a motivating book. An aid in exploring oneself. A book about the changes some people are experiencing in this day and age. The increased consciousness and the chance happenings and meeting of people. An extension of Carl Jung’s Synchronisity theory
کتاب پیشگویی های اسمانی واقعا زیبا بود اما مطالب سری دوم این کتاب رو میشه در 30 صفحه خلاصه کرد
Apparently that previous story was about the discovery of lost insights.
The story that was to be the wrapper for the golden nuggets of insight felt entirely constructed and mechanical.
Basically, the insight is that we are all in this together and if we could only feel the unifying spiritual vibes we could fix everything.
But, the good news is that over the course of human (and universal) history (and future) we are evolving not only physically but spiritually.
Because the world is split into those that are spiritually headed towards this grand unification of sprits and those who are stuck with fear (cue up Revelations here).
Liệu bạn có đang sử dụng năng lượng của người khác?
It can only be found in a person's own internal insight, when merging with others who too begin to have an internal vision of the 10th insight and how the history of the world has taken man to the societal turmoil we are in today.
It will take their combined knowledge of the 10th Insight to save a pristine valley from destruction by an intense energy source that is the obsession of a man who once held the same beliefs of a World Vision that the other 6 major players in this tale hold.
So extreme left and right wing people are just making up lies because they are so obsessed with their beliefs, they are not open to listening to any facts that differ from them.
The Truth is when all of them agree to come into alignment, and stop trying to fight, because the more you resist something, the more it will stay out of your reach.
They must agree on a whole different set of Truths, because neither side knows what it is, they are holding on so hard to the lies.
But the World can go on, if fanatics could stop and be reached on a mental level.
The adventure wasn't as captivating as The Celestine Prophecy and at times seemed slow or forced.
It absolutely comes with an important message which is why I recommend the Celestine Prophecy and now this one to bring it all into practice.
We truly are all souls just trying to find our path, practice and speak our truth, and contribute our part in the "bigger picture." James Redfield does a good job with making an adventure out of finding our way and gives clues of what to look for, because, really- life is an adventure, especially when you're trying to raise your vibrations and find your tribe.
extremely interesting book full of spiritual knowledge, including our birth vision, earth vision.
also animals how they represent a part of ourselves and different meanings for each animal when we see them examples seeing a hare means they are pointing out a direction for you emotionally or physically.crows are the holders of the laws of spirit they increase our perceptions of spiritual reality.hawks are alert observant their presence means that it is important at that time to increase our alertness and pay attention to subtle signs.
This book has helped me to gain more clarity many aspects of my life.
It presents complex topics (history, economy, spirituality, etc) in simple -- some would say 'simple-minded', and I might agree with them if I were not biased in favor of Redfield's convictions -- language.
I give it four stars because, though it is just a piece of a larger puzzle, I think many of the ideas have transformative potential and I hope that they will spread.
Though I think Redfield is guilty of technofantasy, I find his thoughts valuable.
This book was a continuation of The Celestine Prophecy.
It didn't quite hold my interest as much as the first--I think mainly because it didn't seem as concise in its points.
There was also much more VERY long one-sided conversations/explanations which to me, took away from the adventure and excitement of the story.If you read The Celestine Prophecy, you know this series is fiction, yet based on a non-fiction premise, and for me this came out more in The Tenth Insight with all the explaining the characters did.
I'm glad I read it; however, it didn't keep me engaged as well as the first.
Listening to it on audio tapes.
Stopped on cassette 5 out of 7.
I saw the movie, Celestine Prophecy, which took me on a spiritual, emotional rollercoaster...and was a great flick.
I thought the book would offer more, only some input on the different insights and how it concides with the spiritual realm and after-life ancestral aspects...he tries to explain in this audiobook series.
As a Christian, not sure if I can receive the Eastern religious beliefs and afterlife is able to connect with our earthly realm.
Yet, I am convinced of the spiritual realm (angelic) with earthly realm (humans and atmosphere).
I find that there are some books out there that deepen our spirituality by tying in with our own life experiences.
The Tenth Insight will take the reader on a journey deep within themselves to places that they will easily recognize and yet can barely believe.
The reader will have an opportunity to reflect on the life that they are living now and see how it matches up the the one that they have always imagined.
This book is well worth the read for anyone looking to reflect on living a life with intention while trying to puzzle through the mysteries.

I was ready for this book. I had previously read the Celestine Prophecy twice (different times). This was an excellent expansion of the previous insights but more importantly reinforced and pulled together different personal viewpoints. Using a story to illustrate these important concepts works very well for me as I find it clarifies things to "see" them in action. Enjoyed this book very much. And am off to read the next one ... so I am journeying to Shambhala.
This is the sequel to the Celestine Prophecy. It is more philosophical and less plot oriented, but unfortunately the philosophy, on the whole, is more esoteric and less interesting. The metaphysics of "The Afterlife" are questionable to me, and the "10th Insight" is not very clear. I wouldn't particularly recommend this to anyone unless they loved the Celestine Prophecy and are looking to be inspired to continue to pay attention to meaningful coincidences in their lives.
Extremely thought provoking. Goosebumps many times. Great read. I'm looking forward to reading more of his work. Extremely thought provoking. Goosebumps many times. Great read. I'm looking forward to reading more of his work. Amazon wants 3 more words before I can submit. Bad review on the review process.
كتاب (بصيرت دهم) ادامهي كتاب (پيشگويي آسماني) است. به عقيدهي نويسنده هر موجودي كه به جهان ميآيد، با نيتي پاك پا به عالم هستي ميگذارد. از آغاز حتي پيش از آنكه نطفهي موجودي بسته شود همه چيز بر او آشكار است. ولادت يك انسان دور از پاكي و خلوص نيست، اما پس از پاگذاردن به دنياي مادي و نشو و نما به تدريج اهداف راستين به دست فراموشي سپرده ميشود و آدمي در قيد و بند دلبستگيهاي پست مادي اسير ميشود
كتاب (بصيرت دهم) ادامه‌ي كتاب (پيش‌گويي آسماني) است. به عقيده‌ي نويسنده هر موجودي كه به جهان مي‌آيد، با نيتي پاك پا به عالم هستي مي‌گذارد. از آغاز حتي پيش از آنكه نطفه‌ي موجودي بسته شود همه چيز بر او آشكار است. ولادت يك انسان دور از پاكي و خلوص نيست، اما پس از پاگذاردن به دنياي مادي و نشو و نما به تدريج اهداف راستين به دست فراموشي سپرده مي‌شود و آدمي در قيد و بند دل‌بستگي‌هاي پست مادي اسير مي‌شود
