https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/484192.Eagle_in_the_Snow
Set in the 4th and 5th centuries, the time of Honorius, Stilicho, and Galla Placidia, the story is told in the first person in flashback by the dour Roman General Maximus, to a group of tribesmen in Segontium (modern-day Caernarfon, Wales).
Due to a quirk of fate, the Rhine freezes over and the barbarians cross on the ice to the west bank, overwhelming the Romans at the 30th milestone between Augusta Treverorum (Trier) and Moguntiacum (Mainz).
In history, this Rhine battle actually did contribute to the collapse of the Western Roman Empire not many years hence.
The author has clearly done his historical research.
If you want to experience alongside the main character what it's like to be a Roman general just before the fall of the Empire, trying to raise an army and get them equipped before the German tribes overrun your frontier - which we, as readers, know they eventually will - then this is the book for you.
Behind me I left my youth, my middle age, my wife, and my happiness.
There was no middle way any longer, and I did not care.Review from my blog, 
For those less interested in Roman military fiction, like the Rhine itself, "Eagle" runs much deeper.Breem paints a very detailed and accurate picture of life in Maximus' world.
The ending is inevitable - though such is the emotive monologue by Maximus that one can't help but feel hope and optimism at each turn in the ultimate series of battles.The Rugged Land edition of the book (published in 2004) provides a detailed list of characters, historical timeline, Roman and modern place names, and glossaries of tribes and 5th century terms.
4,25/5 o lo que es lo mismo, que está MUY bien pero con alguna reserva.Se desarrolla durante los últimos años del imperio romano de Occidente, cuando las tribus bárbaras invadieron la Galia atravesando la frontera del Rin. El protagonista es Máximo, el general romano a cargo de la defensa de esa frontera.
La angustia de la defensa en inferioridad de condiciones, el sufrimiento, el orgullo, el valor o la cobardía, las lealtades y las traiciones, las penalidades y los sentimientos de los personajes, de la legión XX en su conjunto …eso es lo que más vale, ahí se lleva las cinco estrellas y eso es lo que hace a este libro algo digno de ser leído.Es fácil escribir sobre héroes o victorias o finales felices.
As the Roman Empire is crumbling in the early Fifth Century, a Legion is sent to try to hold the Rhine during a bitter winter, and keep the massing barbarian tribes from crossing.
As Stephen Pressfield's Introduction points out, this book doesn't read like a historical novel, it reads like an account written at the time: the details and sense of place are fantastic but never take the reader out of the story, and the interior monologues are shot through with the beauty and stoicism of Marcus Aurelius's MEDITATIONS.
I unpinned my cloak and shut my eyes, and felt the sun upon my face.
It was better, I thought, to remember the happy times instead.
I loved it all, the writing, the story and the characters. I thought the battle scenes were very well done and the setting at the end of the empire was new for me so I found it very interesting.
It's the story of the dying of things: empires, men, armies, a civilisation.
It's a story of the end of Rome suffused with the nostalgia for fallen things that is a legacy of the northern tribes that defeated the Empire and replaced it on this island.
While there were elements of nostalgia for a lost golden age in Roman civilisation, the twilight mood of Eagle in the Snow is a product of a people and a writer whose civilisation rests upon three supports: the Classical tradition of Rome and Greece, the Judeo-Christian and the foreshadowing of ultimate loss that results from the Ragnarok of the Anglo-Saxons.
Me faltan conocimientos para haberla disfrutado del todo. La última parte del libro es rápida e intrépida.
Story: 3 (Melodramatic to the extreme)Characters: 2 (Basic archetypes with poor dialogue)Accuracy: 1 (Outdated and polemic)I can't understand this book's popularity.
Thirdly, despite being fairly unique in covering the military fall of the Roman Empire the book is filled with cliches, many of them outdated even at the time of writing.
There was never a Roman Empire like this, and if its fall could be solved by the simple expedient of listening to one practical soldier then it would have been.
The late Empire is full of perfectly competent soldiers who became emperors or warlords.
Throughout the book, I felt disconnected with the characters and felt they were not developed well.
At times, I felt like this might end up being a 2.5 star read and at others a solid 3 stars.
The end really picked up during the last battle scene and it was here, finally, that I felt I could really feel emotionally connected to the characters and drawn in to the battle scene.
Looking back, I think as a writer, Breem improved as the story moved along so what felt choppy and cold initially, felt more smooth and connected later on.
At the end of a twenty mile march in the pouring rain, their clothes sodden and their feet sore, they could erect a camp complete with defenses in the space of forty minutes and then fight a sixty minute action afterwards." Maximus told them "It is no good learning to march fifteen miles if you are so out of breath at the end of it that you cannot kill a man first try when he is stabbing at you.
He will kill you first instead, and your long walk will have been a waste of time."
While contending with the Picts he hears word of the loss of two legions along the Danube, with the chilling realization that the Empire and even civilization itself may not last forever.He is then posted on the Rhine to defend against the Germanic tribes with only a single legion.
When the river freezes over on the last day of the year 400 A.D., the tribes are free to cross and enter Gaul.One horrendous, bloody battle succeeds another, and Paulinus's forces are ground away.
As the Vandals and Teutons break through into Gaul, Paulinus makes his way toward Rome alone and is a witness as his premonition about the Empire's fall is realized.
This is a very sad book, but in the end an uplifting one if You know what I mean for this.
The story of a detachment of people, their leader and how they had to follow orders until the very end.
Now We know exactly what book Steven Pressfield was reading when He wrote Gates of Fire: An Epic Novel of the Battle of Thermopylae.A great empire about to fall is the perfect background to tell the story of honor, bravery and the sense of duty that It is lacking today in our lives.Loving this book and I know You'll too.
Absolutely tremendous novel that deals with the waning of the Roman empire and is a terrific, exciting read. Imagine the first half hour of "Gladiator" but better. The general here is also a Maximus, but not the same; this Maximus has to stand against the enormous hordes that are about to sweep over the Northern borders of the Roman empire, and who will basically end the empire in the West.A magnificent book.
I just finished reading Eagle in the Snow. It held me spellbound from cover to cover. The portrayal of the actions and the characters was so strong to me that I still feel, painfully, a sense of loss. This is not one book you can jump from carelessly to another waiting on you shelf. It needs to be savored.
He has a great plot to work with but what isn't history is contrived. Thinly written, even the battles can be flatly written - or sentimental. I can see why this might have been a milestone, why people who came early might be attached to it. Perhaps it's aged poorly; it seemed a tissue of cliches to me.
I love this book, one of the few I have read more than once. The characters are real and brought to life in a beautifully layered Roman world.The mark of a great author is when they can get you shivering in the cold, sweating in the heat of battle, Wallace Breem does this with ease.An absolute must for anyone with even a vague interest in the Roman world
This is a very gripping story, a bit slow to start but soon becomes one of those books you can't put down. It is very moving in parts and is perfect for those grey winter days.
I wanted this novel to be as good as the intro and blurbs said it was.This novel only needed a few tweaks to make it the brilliant and moving novel that the introduction and jacket quotes say it is.
Unfortunately, the tweaks were not done.The relationships and nuances were too subtle so as to be lost in the confusing passages of time and additions of new characters on every page.
This allusion was also ten pages and five new characters removed from the actual conversation dealing with the result of thumb-cutting, a result that made the main character want to throw-up for shame, anger, frustration, etc.
He seems to be a late representative of an imperial Britain and of an English officer class educated to govern the empire.
So while Breem's knowledge of Roman history is deep and wide (as one would expect from the Classical education of his generation) there is an interesting implicit - and ultimately suspicious - one-to-one correlation between the perspective of a early 20th century British officer of the old school and his Roman counterpart.
In other words, Breem seems to project his disgust with the new post-War Britain onto the last days of the Roman Empire.
About the book- Maximus is a man of honour and duty.
A strong character lawfull to his orders, a man who decides to stay and fight till the end,knowning that this will be his last battle.
He knows that the Empire will fall.
But deep inside he knows from the start the way that this will end.He fights only to defend what he always believed and admired, he fights and then falls together with his Empire.
However that is not a drawback since you get to know Maximus more than enough during the book, and so the rest of the characters.
This book is one of the true hidden gems of the historical fiction genre, the story is so well told you can feel the cold, you can feel every sword thrust, every spear cast, the fear, the panic, the blood.This book was the inspiration for the greatest of roman films gladiator and whilst the story is very different, the style, and the characters show why.
This book lives up there with Gates of Fire as in my all time top ten of historical fiction titles.
and i read hundreds of books each year.
I can give you the reader / buyer no higher reading recommendation for a book, this really is a do not miss title...
a reviewers words cannot do justice to a book like this.The highest recommendation...you must read this.(Parm)
I'm not a lover of first person perspective in books and, while I can cope with that on a pacy, exciting read, I found the novel hard going at times.That is more than made up for really by the main character and the general feel of the book.
It is almost possible to feel the world as we know it ending as the plot moves on.
They make it an unhappy book, for certain, but if you want happy, the end of the empire is not a subject to choose.
One of the very best Roman novels I've ever found.
There on the edge of the decayed Empire, in the early 5th century, an exhausted and aging Roman general is left to defend the river frontier between Roman Gaul and the massing German tribes beyond.
Breem's hero understands all too well that as the river freezes and cold and hunger drive the tribesmen toward Roman territory, his prospects are darker by the day.
Unwilling to abandon the local population, committed to a fading ideal of service and honour, Breem's general Maximus fights a war he knows he--- and the Empire ---can't win.
This book gives great portrayals of what made Rome in one of the last stands against the barbarians.
Maximus remains true as we see him hold to Roman gravitas and discipline in the face of insurmountable odds.
The corruption, the weakness of civic leaders, the citizens unwilling to serve, all leading to the fall of Rome.
The soldiers fight and die because they know how to do nothing else, but was it worth the cost?This is not a book that will inspire hope.
Sounds quite familiar to what modern soldiers experience.
Muy interesante por el periodo en el que se ambienta y por lo bien que se cuenta la historia. Aunque sabes como terminará, te mantiene en tensión esperando algún giro imprevisto.Por A o por B he tardado mucho en terminarla, pero no porque se me haya atrancado, me ha dejado satisfecho.
A stark, tragic story of the twilight of the Western Roman Empire. The fragility of the frontier, the stagnation of a once-great empire, the last march of the Twentieth Legion and their final battle are all so poignantly portrayed.
One of my favorite historic military reads. Set during the waning days of the Empire when the Romans are under ever increasing pressure to hold back the "Barbarians" in Northern and central Europe. Snapped this book out of a bargain bin 10 years ago and will likely never part with it.
Super good. Such atmospheric writing. The description of the cold of winter left me feeling chilled. Not at all surprised this is a classic.
A superb account of the final collapse of Rome's Rhine frontier in the 4th century. Grim, powerful, compelling.
