https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/194622.The_Stranger_from_the_Sea
"Save a stranger from the sea, and he will turn your enemee." - Old Cornish sayingIn Book 8 of what is one of my favorite series of all time (in close running with Mary Stewart’s Merlin series), a stranger is rescued from the sea and inserts himself into the lives of the Poldarks.
I admit to missing them a bit; however, I thoroughly enjoyed getting to know Clowance and Jeremy Poldark.
"Why hadn’t he, Ross, perceived more to his son than his apparent carelessness, his seemingly detached, feckless, facile attitude to life?" At the same time, Jeremy is uncertain how to approach his father.
Let's be clear this was still good but for me more of a struggle. Two problems - it's all about the kids; Jeremy, Clowance, Valentine etc and there's a lot of social history. The first half is Napoleon and politics the second half is steam engines. I miss all the miners and minor characters like Zacky and Jud and Drake and Sam. Plus I don't like Stephen Carrington - he can go straight back in the sea.
Ross and Demelza have settled into a mature marriage, and while they still love each other passionately, the fiery jealousy and emotions of their younger years have quieted.
As with all parents, they watch them make mistakes in love and life, without being able to make decisions for them.
This adds a new dimension to both their characters.The main focus of the series is shifting to the younger generation, just like it does to us all in real life, but I don't mind that at all, since the writing and the story line remain excellent.
Not to fear, Winston Graham knows precisely how to tell a story with continuity and progress mixed in perfect proportions.Life has continued apace since we left Ross at a moment of sadness, but revelation, and Ross now finds himself in a very respectable, but not affluent, position:”He had made little money.
I am happy to say that Ross and Demelza have raised lovely children, smart and unassuming and in so many ways reflective of both their parents.
And, in the way he has often failed to appreciate Demelza, Ross is prone to failing to recognize the value of those who love him most.
That is, until I read this novel, the first of the series for me.
In this novel, Winston Graham provides rich character sketches of Clowance and Jeremy, two of the Poldark children.
You see her becoming acquainted with a young man who was fished out of the sea, and are witness to her growing attraction to him.
The reader may consider Stephen Carrington as a force of nature in terms of his personality and spirit.Jeremy's story is especially touching.
In addition to Ross and Demelza, you begin to see in this novel how the lives of their children are shaping themselves.
My knowledge of historic events during this time period is embarrasingly lacking, but I remember references to Napoleon and the "Battle of Waterloo." My memory of this event and some of the historic figures was enough that I felt a little prescient as the characters of the book attempted to navigate the politics and business climate of the time.
I would have been content to read the entire book series without inner knowledge of George Warleggan's love life, but the author takes us through that journey nonetheless.
Despite containing less excitement in this book than some of the previous, it held my attention through some long reading sessions!
The Stranger From The Sea is the eighth book in the Poldark saga by Winston Graham and continues the sweeping story of the Poldark family.
This series has been a marvelous blend of historical fact and romantic fiction.
Lol!Without giving too much away and focusing too much on the cast, I want to say that once again Winston Graham has left me wanting more.
Realistic characters that are vivid and complex stay with me long after I've read these books.
If you only read one series in your life - read this one - you won't be sorry!
On the eve of a battle.In Cornwall the story opens with widower George wooing Harriet.
Clowance is now in her late teens.This, the 8th in the series marks a change in the nature of this family saga.
It starts to fully develop the next generation in the Poldark family, whilst continuing to develop many of the established characters.I really liked the change in focus on the historical front, with the differing attitudes towards the use of new technology, with the growth of the age of steam and its potential effect on the lives and fortunes of the lives of the Cornish mining communities.It seems that many of the storylines started in this book continue in the next book 'The Miller's Dance, which I look forward to reading soon.

The Stranger from the Sea (Poldark, #8), Winston Graham
As for the namesake of the book, Stephen, I find myself unable to get interested in him, but in view of Clowance's refusal of Lord Edward, I suspect we'll learn more about him.Jeremy is by far the most interesting character here.
His loss of Cuby is very well told, and of course the last chapter of THAT has yet to be written.Again, this contains some of the sparkle and readability of the earlier Poldark novels, but seems to stray too much into Napoleonic politics to make it as fun a read.
Not a favorite but I definitely plan on continuing. I found it to be somewhat boring compared to the others in the series but shouldn't be skipped because there are stories being laid that I'm sure will become more interesting in the next book, at least I hope so. ;)
I cannot quit the Poldarks!
Although this book marks a significant transition to the younger generation of Poldarks and Warleggans, there’s still a satisfying number of pages with Ross and Demelza and George Warleggan.It’s 1810 and the king’s madness has returned.
Warleggan is one of the speculators, and his unwise investment marks one of the few times we see him stumble.
I greatly missed Sam and Drake and Morwenna and Dwight, and there’s very little of Caroline.This is delightfully well written, and I look forward to the next book.
Thoroughly enjoying this series. I would have given this 3.5 if I could. Definitely setting the stage for upcoming events. Love these characters! So well developed.
The industrial revolution begins surrounded by "soap-opera" like plot lines.
It's all new content for me as book 7 seemed to catch up with where the TV show is now. I found myself stopping and replaying things often because I didn't want to miss any of it.This book jumps ahead 10 years, though, so the grown characters is an interesting change.
This time we delve into the lives of Jeremy and Clowance, Ross and Demelza's older children.
Jeremy is now 19, Clowance 17, and they are experiencing life as people on the brink of adulthood.
I absolutely adore the warm, friendly relationships that the children have with their parents.
It's been a long time since I read a book where teens thought their parents worthy of praise and deserving of respect, and vice-versa!
Demelza and Clowance's relationship is especially charming.
Ross and Jeremy admire and respect one another without fear or burden of vulnerability because they trust each other with their feelings.
I thoroughly enjoyed all the previous Poldark books - I've always felt that I was in the hands of a master romance spinner.
You get the feeling the author rushed through the first half of the book while his editor was on vacation.
He uses "inimical" twice within a couple pages which bothers me because that's a once-a-book kind of word.
I'm going to have to use "inimical" in conversation today.
We'll see how all this plays out in the next books.The author recovered in the second half of the book - some really strong writing about parent-child relationships and the book ended on such a sweet/sad note.
Clearly a "set-up" for events to come, this book hops over a decade or so to start the stories of the second generation.
To be fair, after the ending of the near-perfect book seven, I fully understand that temptation.
Yet -- although most of the previous characters still are around -- the personalities of the children need to work up a head of "steam" before any of them become quite as distinct.
As a result, only one thing of consequence (brilliantly slipping Ross into early 19th Century high politics to explain a still-mysterious event) occurs in this book.
Very good continuation of the saga of these Cornwall families. Story begins ten years after the prior book in the series so the second generation family members are the center characters. Very good background of the history of the late days of the Napoleonic wars too.
Difficult read for me. Too many new characters introduced without continuity from the previous book IMO.
I found this particular volume rather flat.... nothing of really lasting significance happens, which left me wondering "what was the point?" There's also a lot of technical discussion about boilers, steam engines and pumping machines, which I wasn't particularly interested in and didn't understand anyway! However as always Graham's superb writing skills and his ability to bring a distant period of history to vibrant life, kept me turning the pages and I am looking forward to continuing the saga in due course.
After the last Poldark book, I could see why Winston Graham finished the series.
When he picks up the story- 8 years later, Jeremy and Cowlance are in their young adults and there is another Poldark child, Isabella Rose.
Ross and Demelza are settled into their lives and they watch with concern and pride as their two oldest children begin to make their way in the world.The story was a bit clunky at first as Graham picked up the threads after years away from the Poldark's story, but it finally found its rhythm about half way through.Enjoyable read if you love the Poldark saga.
Again a wonderful novel in the Poldark-series! At the beginning I had a little difficulty coming into the story, because a period of 10 years had to be covered. To the end however the story took me completely and I can't wait to read the next book!
Ahh this is my least favorite in the series so far, just because it was 80% war political commentary and 20% typical Cornish drama. I was a bit disappointed about the transition from the last book and it’s shocking death ending and the minor mention of it in the big time jump in this one.
number 8 in the poldark series. Ross and Demelza are growing up, as are their children. The book is more about them and coming of age of the steam powered engines.

Our beloved Ross and Demelza are older now so the book shifts to the experiences of their two older children, Jeremy and Clowance.
Jeremy has been sneaking off to "fish" many days in the week, to Ross' consternation that he has raised a "flippant" young man.
What he does not know and what Jeremy doesn't tell him is that Jeremy and his two closest friends are taking day trips to visit a man with knowledge of steam engines.
Meanwhile, Clowance is being courted by three different men: a wealthy and titled young man, a miner from town and a stranger from the sea that Jeremy and his friends rescue.
This novel jumps ahead ten years from the previous one in the series and focuses on the next generation of Poldarks and Warleggans.
What is his story?
I was disappointed to learn that Valentine has turned into a rather dissolute young man but since we are missing ten years in his life, one can only imagine what growing up in the Warleggan household was like.
I could have lived with a little less detail on steam engines, but I can see how this has significance to Jeremy's story.
The story ends rather abruptly, leaving me wondering how things will develop in the next book, The Miller's Dance.
