https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32432.Fear_Nothing
At one point I was having a flashback to another Koontz book where there is a super dog, a man and woman, and an other thing that wanted to kill the dog.
He somehow has a super hot girlfriend who is a deejay, and also knows her way around guns (like most female characters in Koontz's books).
He also has a best friend who is a surfer that talks like he's in his 50s though he is the same age as Christopher (late 20s).
The setting of Moonlight Bay must have only 20 people that live there since that is all who seemed to make up this book.
Koontz Group Read September 2017  Second read - 2017 These are the Items not listed in my first read.- Chris Snow born with "XP" - Xeroderma Pigmentosum - skin cancer when exposed to bright lights. During day, Chris always wears sunglasses, as light can make him "blind". ("Wikipedia" lists - 1 person per 250,000 in USA has XP.) - This allows him go to Kirk's Funeral Home at night & prove his father's body was swapped at Mercy Hospital. They would not let him enter to see the body, they sai
("Wikipedia" lists - 1 person per 250,000 in USA has XP.) - This allows him go to Kirk's Funeral Home at night & prove his father's body was swapped at Mercy Hospital.
Chris' XP let's him escape a chase in the night.- Fort Wyver uses world-wide "Resus" monkeys ("Wikipedia") used for experiments to chase kill him.
first read - 2015"Fear Nothing" is (Moonlight 1) like "Seize the Night" (Moonlight 2) an exciting chase book with Chris Snow as the main character.
In this book, his dad's dead body (Steven Snow) was to be creamated and is instead swapped with a dead hitchhiker by Kirk's Funeral Home for the "closed" Fort Wyvern's experiments.
This is the one and only Dean Koontz novel I've ever read, since it managed to put me right off DK forever. It wasn't awful, but wow, it was just so, so (so, so, so) many extra and unneeded words. IIRC, it took the main character something like seven full pages just to make his way up a flight of stairs at one point, and it wasn't because the steps were just that exciting. I can't believe I actually finished this. I guess some writers are just not for me.
A preachy protagonist.
The Koontzian equivalent of a manic pixie girl (who is, of course, deeply and madly in love with the protagonist).
Yeah, Fear Nothing is one of those quintessential Koontz books: pretty by-the-numbers stuff, but still fun.Something I appreciated is the reference to Watchers; the goings on in Moonlight Bay are explained as an “improvement upon” the scientific discoveries from Koontz’s most famous work.
This author does not typically reference himself, but in this case it worked.
Fear Nothing is just plain fun.
Recommended for established Koontz fans, or anyone looking for a breezy summer read!
5 stars.🇺🇸🦋
This was an exciting, suspenseful book! Chris Snow is a complex character and I look forward to seeing what happens next in the series!!
Instead they say “you shouldn’t know all of it, just enough to forget what you saw.” There is a tell all at the end where Chris finds answers in a letter.
Roosevelt knows what is going on but he won’t tell Chris.
Finally at the end of the scene, Roosevelt tells Chris that he must not ask any more questions or “they” will kill Chris’ friends, but “they” are not interested in killing Chris.
He won’t give any more details.Too many things are not explained, for example: Why some revered Chris and were in awe of him and wouldn’t kill him.
Why wouldn’t people tell Chris the whole story?
It’s just a good, solid story with a very likable lead (and a black lab).Fear Nothing is about a 28 year old man named Chris Snow.
At night, he explores the small town of Midnight Bay, where he lives.This novel begins in the evening, as Chris gets a phone call that his father has passed away from cancer.
Yeah, that’s right.The events of the novel take place primarily over a 24 hour period, as Chris explores his town and visits friends and enemies, trying to find the truth about his father’s death.
Koontz published a sequel, Seize the Night, the following year.
I loved this book! Christopher Snow is a character to remember. He's one of my favorites.
I like Koontz, but a lot of his books seem to be too similar for me.---Despite not being a big fan of the 'formula novel' - you know, all those books that authors constantly crank out and end up on the top of the NYT bestseller's list - I have to say that I enjoyed this book.
I haven't really happened upon an engrossing read yet this year, but this book turned out to be one that had me longing to pick it up again.
As with other Koontz novels, this book was a psychological thriller with a supernatural twist.
After he’s gone and the body is taken to be cremated, Chris remembers his father wants to be cremated with a picture of Chris’s mother who died two years ago in a car accident.
Apparently someone wants to do more tests on Chris’s father.This is the beginning of a strange night full of events for Chris Snow which leads him to discover a frightening military experiment has been going on in Moonlight Bay for years.
There’s another book with the same characters, but they didn’t win me over enough to want to read more about them.
Fear Nothing introduces Christopher Snow, a 20-something surfer who suffers from Xeroderma Pigmentosum - he can't go out during the day, as light is deadly for him.
His friend, Bobby, is a multimilionaire who drinks Heineken and has nothing better to do and go on adventures.Still, there's a pleasant story there.
This work is the antithesis of Intensity, which is propably Koontz's best novel.
Fear Nothing contains a good story that screams for a good teller; unfortunately it suffers from too many of Koontz's literary abuses to be properly enjoyed.
Chris' natural element is the night, and his parents, both academics, chose to live in Moonlight Bay because in a small town Chris can make the nightscape his own, roaming freely through the town on his bike, surfing in the moonlight, exploring while most people sleep.But Chris' brilliant mother, a scientist, was killed in a car accident two years ago, and as the book opens his father, Steven Snow, is dying of cancer; Chris' protected life is about to change forever.
His best friend has had hints of something wrong because of the frightening nocturnal visitors that have come to his beach house.
The entire 400 page novel takes place in a single night, this makes the story feel like an out of control freight train but maintains a well-organized structure by Koontz.
In terms of character, there really is only one the reader can grab onto and that is the main protagonist, Christopher Snow.
The concept of the vulnerable protagonist is expertly done by Koontz and adds a layer of danger to every adventure Snow takes on.
There are aspects of ‘Watchers’, ‘Lightning’, ‘Innocence’, and more; this goes back to the theory that Koontz keeps re-writing the same story and slapping on a different title.Overall, this is the most fun 3 star book that I’ve ever read.
One of the people that I follow on Instagram wanted to read a marathon of Dean Koontz books from what is considered his best works and I decided to join along.
I really enjoyed reading it because I kept thinking, "This book is insane!" One drawback was whenever Koontz would describe surf lingo or something similar it would take me out of the story.
I tried to give him the benefit of the doubt thinking that it might not have been common knowledge when this book was written in 1998, but I feel like it was.There really isn't an ending to this book.
This was a great read can't wait to read the second book in the trilogy
A doll was waiting for me.This narrow, life-sustaining realm under the smoke seemed to be an alternate world into which I had fallen after stepping through a door between dimensions.An inhuman cry issued from him, primitive and psychotic, a caterwaul of the sort that sometimes wakes you in the night and leaves you wondering about the species of origin."And they left me a warning," Bobby said.I pictured a threatening note laboriously printed in crude block letters - WATCH YOUR ASS.
Once again, Dean Koontz proves he is a hit or miss writer.This first book of the so-called "Moonlight Bay" trilogy has an intriguing main character, (Christopher Snow), an interesting premise involving secret experimentation at an abandoned military base using retroviruses to enhance intelligence in animals, and a nice setting on the California coast.
Consequently he lives by night; even too many candles in a room make him squint.
Monkeys, especially monkeys with heightened intelligence and an evil streak always make for great horror fiction.It seems even Koontz has abandoned this trilogy since the second book was published in 1999 and nothing since.
Accompanied by his dog Orson, girlfriend Sasha and friend Bobby, he accidentally uncovers a secret from an apparently abandoned military base in Moonlight Bay. As he attempts to learn more about it, he and his friends are met with increasing amounts of threats and violence.
The ending was disappointing as it felt rushed since it wrapped up in just a few pages and it left the book feeling incomplete as it didn't answer many of the questions about other parts of the plot.
The plot has the same basic characters as some of Koontz's books - hero, intelligent dog and a child with a mental affliction.
"Although I wasn't trained for this work, there was no one but me to do the job." This quote really sums up almost every Dean Koontz protagonist, and Christopher Snow is no different. Although there is darkness and creepiness in this book, it is very inspiring. It gives hope, because no matter what is happening in the world, there is always something good out there.  "A lot of the time, reality is what you make it."  I don't know why I haven't read this book before, because it's one of the best
Although there is darkness and creepiness in this book, it is very inspiring.
I don't know why I haven't read this book before, because it's one of the best Koontz novels that I've read.
The characters are vivid, the storyline is creepy, and it has a beautiful message.
Although Chris has a less than ideal life, he lives.
There isn't a lot that I can say about this book without giving away lots of the plot.
You spend most of your time in Chris Snow's head, following a trail that leads to creepier and creepier revelations.
Just read the book.
Even my mother got me busy doing cross stitching.But then as it was a year of doing what I want to do, when I saw Fear Nothing from across the room, I just had to have it.
Just like that, I was back to reading, and reading and reading and reading.After all these years it's still one of my favourite books, that I looked everywhere for my own copy.
Finally found one this year, and I am just over the moon.
I've read better books of course, other more amazing stories that just simply leave me with no words.
Not as good as I first thought but towards the end you could detect a hint of a sequel in the offing. As apocalyptic books go I've read better and I've read better books by Dean Koontz. It's been a long time since I've read one of his books. I may keep an eye out for a sequel as I think anyone who reads this book will want a sense of closure on the subject and story
Comparing that book to Fear Nothing, I feel that the actual plot itself and the sense of adventure is a little bit better in Seize the Night, but I feel like the reader really gets to know Christopher and his friends and love life better in Fear Nothing.A complaint that I have in this book that mirrors my feelings in Seize the Night is Bobbie's attitude or personality.
This may be coming from my author side and not my reader side, but it felt like he could have cut back on the extra words by half and it still would have been a great book.Anyways, this was a good read and full of suspense and thrills.
He wasn't expected to live long but somehow he is 28 and has experienced his mother's death and now his father's.
His father's last words to Chris are, "Fear Nothing".
Chris sees people taking his father's body and the mystery begins.
He travels through the night with his best buddy, Orson to solve the mystery enlisting his childhood friend, Bobby, and girlfriend Sasha.It is a creepy book but has underlying lessons in it.
Friends are worth anything to keep, worrying about tomorrow lessens your enjoyment of today and there is always something good in your life, so enjoy it.
On to the second book.
When its down to a man that has to live by night, a deejay, a surfer and a dog to save the world, I kind of feel like all is lost.
Chris Snow has his hands full with the revalations that he is dealt in a 12 hour period after his fathers death.
And why not when you wrap a twisted situation into the mix and there is death and destruction surrounding you.
Im such a short period everyone he holds dear are willing to band together and take on the bad guys.I love Dean Koontz writing, but thus one just wasn't for me.
In 23 B.C., the poet Horace said, "Seize the day, put no trust in the morrow." The irony of Horace quote is that Christopher Snow seize the night instead and marvels at it. While everybody slumbers, he prowls the street from dusk 'til dawn. Twenty-eight years old Chris have a Xeroderma-Pigmentosum since birth and no one suspected him to reach adulthood.In the event of his father's death, Chris doesn't have the time to grieve, he must survive the night and search for the truth. Without fear, he
In 23 B.C., the poet Horace said, "Seize the day, put no trust in the morrow."
The irony of Horace quote is that Christopher Snow seize the night instead and marvels at it.
. A secret no one can escape....A Dean Koontz creation that is worthy to be called 
. The tension accelerates at an unrelenting pace and will keep you reading 'til you catch your breath yet again.
Infact, Koontz love for poetry and philosophy made this more interesting.
This one captured my attention, so much, that I'm reading the sequel already.

Awesome book. I now know why so many fans want a another Moonlight Bay book. It is amazing how Dean Koontz intertwines his books. The reason behind the plot of Fear Nothing stems from the golden retriever we meet in Watchers which was originally published 3 years earlier. Many fans want Odd Thomas and Chris Snow to meet. We left Odd at a dinner in Moonlight Bay. Chris Snow is such an original Character. I've never heard of the condition Chris suffers from but it is real. To be able to write a story around that is truly an art.
Another of my favorite Koontz books... wish he would write another in this series
Surprisingly good....
