https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7148931-the-4-hour-body
LoL!) and then complaining that they work out 2 hours a day and can't lose weight, or when I see meatheads doing bicep curls and shrugs when they have quadriceps that look like they should be in a weelchair, I am filled with righteous indignation at whatever exercise and beauty industry brainwashed these people into thinking that these were the pathways to strength and health.On the other hand, the principles that Ferriss uses to develop his crazy ideas are all perfectly sound.
Instead of mild interest, though, I spent the entire read alternating between spitting anger and abject boredom.The cornerstone of the book is Ferriss' self-experimentation.
Self-experimentation is where the big theories and scientific discoveries start, take shape, and get you thinking about the world in ways you hadn't before.
Science is what you do after you've come up with all these great ideas and interesting observations.
Ferriss, you see, decides to teach the world (men) how to give a woman a 15 minute orgasm.
But I have no problem writing a whole book insisting to readers, through a stream-of-consciousness narrative told in OCD-level detail, that my umbrella-carrying behavior is what controls my weather.Of course, if you want to really track the weather around you, you'll have to be willing to pay hundreds of dollars a week on expensive and time-consuming diagnostic tests to keep tracking your weather in minute detail, so that you can adjust your umbrella-carrying behavior in case the weather starts getting out of hand.Also, I, Tim Ferris, am constantly having sex with models and partying with rockstars, as my 8 billion Twitter followers can avow.
Anyone who read my review of 4 Hour Work Week knows that I think that Tim Ferriss is a total smug dick.
At the moment I am trying out his slow-carb method, which means I eat protein, veg, and beans for 6 days on and then one mega "refeeding" (read: binge) day a week.
I'm hopeful that this structure is going to work since the binge day will keep me from all the cheats through the week that keep me from achieving my goals.
I hope to be back here in a few weeks with some positive results!As for the sex part of the book, I have to take a pass.
You can think of it as a collection of short essays (my understanding is that the book started life as a collection of blog posts by author Tim Ferris) that attempt to “hack” the human body using little tricks and unexpected methods.
Because I actually tried some of this stuff.I'm always eager to try new weight loss methods, especially ones making the claims he did: that you don't have to count calories, that you can have a cheat day once a week in which you are encouraged to eat literally whatever you want, even to the point of making yourself sick.
II'd never read a health book which starts out by describing being backstage at a NIN concert.
In the 4-Hour Body, Tim Ferriss chronicles his eclectic experiences at hacking his body: weight loss & muscle gain, perfect abs and perfect baseball swing, tripling his testosterone, holding his breath for three minutes, & more.
Even if you don't implement a single thing in this book, you'll have a barrel of fun reading it.
He's motivated me to get back to my ideal weight, and I'm already half way there by implementing some of his regimen.
Since dropping gluten & high-fructose corn syrup from my diet, my allergies have all but disappeared, and my inflammation has dropped so much that most of my shoulder pain (which I've had for 10+ years) is gone!Knowing how much pain I'm missing out on has kept me motivated to continue the positive diet change and life-hacking my body, 4 Hour Body style!*I marked that I've "finished" the book -- I've finished the sections for my personal goals.
You do not have to read the full book - just the parts you need!
In it he professes to have the solution to many of your health woes and promises to help you accomplish such things as "Sleep 2 hours per day and perform better than on 8 hours." (I'll spare you the pain of reading his incredibly scientific and boring explanation by telling you that this requires an unbelievably complicated schedule of sleeping a few minutes at a time all day long.
Besides being incredibly scientific and difficult to read, Ferris is simply too cocky and stuck on himself to gain my trust.
In that way, it seems more like a "Choose Your Own Adventure" book: you want to lose fat?
Life is one big experiment for Ferriss - so in that way, I admire his approach.
The chapters that I chose to focus on were fat loss, building strength, and injury prevention.
The strength and muscle building chapter is more forward and actually quite simple: less is more.
In the end, this book needs to be read critically, but with an open mind (does that make sense?) If this sounds like something that you would like to do - this interactive approach - then I totally recommend it.
A lot of people miss the point of this book.
Tim throws out a lot of factoids, many of which may be oversimplified or even wrong out of context.
But his methodology is right.
The point of this book that seems to get missed is to 1) use your body as a laboratory and 2) MEASURE EVERYTHING.He records everything meticulously.
Anyone who reads it should not take his word on the specifics as anything more than "This worked for me." What they do need to take is his methodology and principles and extend them to their own lives.
It's not in the same level of 'The 4 hour work week' but definitely is worth reading. Timothy is a bit crazy in this book, some of the chapters have too much technical information which looses the grip. So, i skipped the chapters which i found impractical and not applicable to my life and finished in just 2 days.
I get the impression many people miss the point of Tim's work.
Try things, isolate variables.
I beat Tim to the punch on most of this stuff, and found myself nodding in agreement (Though I've had better luck in strength gains using different methods).
Much of the same stuff that Tim has tried has worked for me in the past.
He left the reader with a cliffhanger on the 50K run, but having used Brian Mackenzie's methods for years I can tell you it works for many of us.
I hope it works for Tim and the rest of you who try it too.
I hated this book, mostly because it sells asscience this guy's statistically insignificant, biased and poorly designed life experiment. It's less entertaining than a car crash, but has a bit of the morbid interest about the damage it may cause to society. Not to mention the sex bit, which is pathetic in its definition, scope, and intended results. Luckily, for the better knowing women it will probably mark him as a clueless lover. I read the first half, abandoned it for a year, and then skimmed through the rest: nothing to call my attention. No more Ferriss for me, ever.
His constant humblebragging is pretty hard to take.The 4 Hour Body is laid out like a recipe book based on what goals you want to achieve.
My main beef with the book is that Timothy Ferriss routinely takes an adversarial tone where he pits his Protocol against the standard exercise/regimens and proclaims his method much simpler and more effective.
But oftentimes his Protocol is equally or exceedingly crazy!
Make no mistake - if you follow his Protocols you are going to seem like a crazy person.
Authored by self proclaimed internet guru, Tim Ferriss, the 4-Hour Body is a rambling mix of diet, workout, drugs, sex and body manipulation that should be called 'The Narcissist's Bible'.
Given that I purchased this book I decided to go on the diet in early January.After three weeks on the 4 hour body diet I can say I lost 5 lbs, however, the side effects were massive!
I felt so crummy that I decided to quit the diet by making a plate full of french toast for breakfast (a total no no in his book).
Ferriss' book has some good ideas in it, but it needs to be edited down... significantly. It's bloated with anecdotes, hype and rhetoric that waste time. It is true that Ketosis diets work, and so I don't think this is a gimmick. The book, however, can simply be put to the side. A few pages of dietary lists and exercises cover 90% of the useful knowledge. I didn't even bother with his pathetic "superhuman sex" advice.
Have you read Tim Ferris's blog posts?
It reads like an infomercial.
Over the years, X has been:1) Running a successful business2) Losing 10lbs 3) Adding 34Lbs of muscle4) Learning a new language5) Flying around the worldCritics call him a snake oil salesman, his fans (and there are plenty) call him a genius life hacker.
Of course, it's liberally seasoned with name dropping and wonderful claims that you usually associate with late night TV, but a waste of time it is not.I give it only a 3 star because of the sensationalism and the marketing tactics that I find distasteful.
If you give it some time though, you'll find something whether you're interested in fitness, life hacks or are a hypochondriac.
His writing style is easy to read, and he enhances that ease by sectioning off different parts of the book - mid-chapter - to let you know "this part is super technical if you want to skip it" or "this is just an anecdote I have if you're not interested," which is handy, because I was only mildly interested in the science and not at all interested in his anecdotes.
The book breaks down into four sections - weight loss, muscle gain, sexual health and this weird sort of potpourri category that is random knowledge he picked up while working on these other things.
If I were to write a book on the same topic with the same information, it would probably come out reading like the DSM-IV, but Ferriss does a good job of including plenty of entertaining anecdotes and humor to help us along, not to mention simple and concise explanations.As the subtitle promises, the content of the book is definitely uncommon.
While it will help him sell books, unfortunately I think it will also cause people to label him as a fraud and therefore dismiss all the other information that is definitely worth reading and considering.The Ugly:The author actually weighed his poop.This was a guest review by Edward Bartlett.
Every time I sat down to read it, I would immediately get sucked into the text--oblivious to all distractions (often on a bus commute), immune to morning commute sleepiness.
4HB is science, health, fitness, and nutrition written in a highly engaging way with advice that is then easily applied to one's own life.
When I'm feeling motivated again, I'll switch back over to The Fat Flush Plan, which is similar but doesn't require beans.In summary, this is an excellent and well-researched book.
If you care at all about your health and fitness you should read it (though probably not straight through ;-) ).
One of my passions is diet & exercise books.
I read them religiously instead of dieting or exercising.
What makes this book such an interesting novelty for me is that the author is into extreme conduct.
Spoiler alert: being female, I was looking forward to learning how to have a 15 minute orgasm.
He proceeded to relate his experience at sex class in San Francisco where he learned the technique that will guarantee a woman would have an orgasm in 15 minutes or less.
And, in the end, the author is so enthusiastic about life that it is contagious and inspiring.
Okay, Timothy is a crazy weirdo who thinks everything he does is perfect, and because he's tested it - then it's true and if you don't do it, you are then dumb and wrong.
Filled with what he promises as a "minimalist approach" to a better life, I read this as a joke at first and also to see what the heck he had to say.
Want to lose weight?
Only eat beans and veggies for every meal (if he were to read this he might call my bluff, as he says you can eat other things, but it's basically beans and veggies).
Ferris is the human test gerbil...great research, some excellent ideas to get in shape and to push yourself to become something better.
کتاب بسی مفیدی بود.
تیم فریس از اون آدمایی که ایدهی ۲۰/۸۰ رو خیلی خوب دنبال میکنه و وقت میزاره.تو این کتاب با انواع آزمایشها و تستهایی که رو خودش انجام داده، اطلاعاتی که از مصاحبهها و کتابهایی که خونده گرفته و بر اساس مدلهای موجود کارکرد بدن، میاد میگه چطور میشه سریع چربی سوزوند، عضله به دست آورد و سکس خوب داشت و خوب خوابید.من بخش عضلهسازی و سوزوندن چربی رو خوندم.
دو هفته هم تست کردم.
البته نه به صورت کامل و دقیق.
با یه سری تغییر.هفتهی اول ۲.۵ کیلو کم کردم.
هفتهی دوم ۱۰۰ گرم اضافه کردم((:البته ب
کتاب بسی مفیدی بود.
تیم فریس از اون آدمایی که ایده‌ی ۲۰/۸۰ رو خیلی خوب دنبال می‌کنه و وقت می‌زاره.تو این کتاب با انواع آزمایش‌ها و تست‌هایی که رو خودش انجام داده، اطلاعاتی که از مصاحبه‌ها و کتاب‌هایی که خونده گرفته و بر اساس مدل‌های موجود کارکرد بدن، میاد میگه چطور میشه سریع چربی سوزوند، عضله به دست آورد و سکس خوب داشت و خوب خوابید.من بخش عضله‌سازی و سوزوندن چربی رو خوندم.
با یه سری تغییر.هفته‌ی اول ۲.۵ کیلو کم کردم.
هفته‌ی دوم ۱۰۰ گرم اضافه کردم((:البته برنامه دارم وضعیت مالی‌ام ثبات بیشتری داشت، دوباره شروع کنم به ادامه دادن.
Тим Феррис суммировал в книге свой опыт по снижению веса (% жира), развитию мускулатуры, обучению плаванию, бегу на марафонские дистанции, здоровому питанию и сексу, восстановлению после травм, улучшению сна. Он потратил на это четверть миллиона долларов и десятилетия жизни, вы можете купить эти знания за $5 и прочитав книгу за 10 часов, сделать свое тело привлекательным и здоровым.
I'm also fascinated by the disconnect in the fact that the author sells this idea of getting the most results out of the least possible effort, but that he himself is the most precocious person on the planet and clearly puts 200% effort into everything he does or takes an interest in.
Real experiments backed up by real data.I'm a life-long experimenter, and The 4HB appeals to me because it teaches people how to do experiments, track the data, and draw conclusions from it.A number of reviews confuse how this book is marketed with the content it contains.
Personally, I think the marketing strategy for this book has been well-planned and executed, FWIW.However, the material is based on solid science, and teaches you how to discern the scheisters from the scientists.
There are lots of claims by health products, but not much back up by scientific evidence.
On one hand it's an addictive read.
Tim's commitment to self-experimentation is pretty amazing.On the other I felt a lot of it was written from a perspective too far removed from my own to be useful.
Tim's background in the nutrition industry is obvious, and most chapters focus around some combination of drugs or micronutrients, and this is a persistent bias.
The small chapters on meatless diets were obviously written by a meat eater (though the inclusion of Scott Jurek's shopping list was fascinating - three pages of it!), even though he included interviews with the right people (such as Mike Mahler).Overall though it's still inspiring.
Worth reading.
This was by far the single most effective "self-help" book I have encountered.
In fact it is quite possibly the only effective self-help book I have ever encountered.
Whatever your goal may be, whether it is weight loss, muscle gain, healing old injuries, becoming a better swimmer, or having better sex, this book not only gives you simple, easy to follow instructions supported by a plethora of data, but everything I tried worked, and worked quickly.
Everything.I do not usually like books like this that seem trendy or fad-like, but I have never encountered a book I can recommend more highly than the 4-Hour body.
The writing style is not so great and the book is a bit of a hodgepodge. I missed the subtitle on my edition, so I am reading merrily along about cutting carbs and building muscle, then all of a sudden, Nina Hartley is talking about how to give a female a great orgasm. I am giving it 2-3 stars; however, if Tim (or Nina's) advice pans out, this will move up to 4 stars.
