https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/252127.The_Gentleman_from_San_Francisco_and_Other_Stories
Introduction--The Gentleman from San Francisco--The Primer of Love--Chang's Dreams--Temir-Aksak-Khan--Long Ago--An Unknown Friend--At Sea, at Night--Graffiti--Mitya's Love--Sunstroke--Night--The Caucasus--Late Hour--Visiting Cards--Zoyka and Valeria--The Riverside Tavern--A Cold Autumn
Ivan Bunin (1870-1953) is one of Russia's most overlooked writers. The stories are set in Russia, parts of Europe and France, where the author lived the last 30 years of his life. The pieces are really extraordinary in that they are about ordinary people who are brought to life in very colorful ways. The language is rich and detailed, sensuous, and reads like poetry. Nobel prize for 1933 and 1st Russian to win it.
I would love to read more Bunin. Beautiful short stories. He isn't a Russian author that many people know about, which is a real shame.
Ivan Bunin was the odd man out of Russian letters the early nineteenth century -- in a highly factionalized literary world, he stood by himself, or rather, in what he saw as the grand tradition of realists, not in the revolutionary vein of Gorky's but instead that of Tolstoy.
Like many of the great novelists of the early twentieth century -- Joyce, Proust and Faulkner come to mind -- the effect of the passage of time is one of Bunin's great themes.
If Bunin had been as interested in people as they were he might have stood with them.
THE GENTLEMAN FROM SAN FRANCISCO and other stories. (1923). Ivan Bunin. ****. Ivan Bunin (1870-1953) was the first Russian writer to win the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1933. He wrote several novels, but was primarily known for his short stories. This collection was read in an on-line version scanned in from an editon published by Thomas Seltzer, Pubisher, in New York. What made this interesting was that translation was attributed to three men, two of whom were Leonard Woolf and D. H. Lawrence
THE GENTLEMAN FROM SAN FRANCISCO and other stories.
Ivan Bunin.
Ivan Bunin (1870-1953) was the first Russian writer to win the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1933.
He wrote several novels, but was primarily known for his short stories.
I didn’t know that they knew Russian!
It is selfishness rounded off with a sort of nihilism that we don’t see today.
It was an interesting read from an author that doesn’t seem to be much read today.
The stories in this collection included: “The Man From San Francisco,” “Gentle Breathing,” “Kasmir Stanislavovitch,” and “Son.” Recommended.
https://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/44998http://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-...
Most of the stories had very little plot, no great dialogues, they were rather sketches of a fleeting encounter, or an affair or a nostalgic recollection that echoed the fragility of our joys and existence.
The dead man goes back by the same ship, 'hidden from the living: in a tarred coffin' and on board goes on the same chandelier-lit, festive ball.The standout piece is 'Mitya's Love', the longest story in the book.
An adulterous affair, the sea, the night, a journey - these are recurring motifs in the book.And I was not surprised to find a mention of an episode from the Buddha's life in one of the stories.
Even more surprisingly this is an easy read - not a phrase commonly used to describe Russian writers' books.Bunin has an incredible talent for making normal people and events seem extraordinary.
The rest of the book was just as fun to read.Russian writers have never been my favorite, but Bunin reads more like a British writer than his Russian contemporaries.
I can't wait to read more things he has written.This was a great palate cleanser coming off of a disappointing book.
It took me less than 24 hours to read the entire thing, and I didn't want to put it down until it was finished.
Nobel Prize ProjectYear: 1933Winner: Ivan BuninReview: The title story was great, one of the most insightful, thought provoking stories I've read in a long time. The other three stories in the collection were fairly innocuous character portraits, not exactly exciting but well-written. "Son" was the best of those. I will definitely be checking out more by this guy.Verdict: I don't know whether he was the best possible choice, but this is fundamentally Nobel-quality writing.
Not sure if this is the edition I read, but probably they have most of the same stories.
I find Bunin to be a captivating author in the Russian tradition.
Compared to the others, what makes Bunin stand out is his visual sense.
On the other hand, I sometimes feel Bunin stresses these visual aspects because he has less of a handle on the social/emotional aspects.
It's hard for me to hold that against him, however.I would say these stories should be pretty easy to pick up and enjoy, something I encourage everyone to do.
Господин из Сан - Франциско: 2Чистый понедельник: 3Лёгкое дыхание: 4
Perhaps most haunting, most intriguing are the series of letters to “An Unknown Friend.” In it, the mysterious friend receives in a letter an excellent treatise on the nature of love, best exemplified by the following quote, “Perhaps as a result of my having experienced certain feelings towards you a right has come to exist.
For example, has there ever been a single Romeo who hasn’t demanded that his love be requited even when his hopes are unfounded, or any Othello who’s not been jealous by rights?
The love I feel for something or someone becomes part of me, part of my being .
Этот рассказ служит очередным напоминанием людям об ложных жизненных ценностях.Иван Бунин приложил усилия для того чтобы читатель иногда вспоминал подлинные ценности жизни, а возможно и переосмыслил текущие.Ничем таким особенным это произведение автора не выделяется, но эта работа несомненно стоит внимания.
All gems...When I first read it, 'A Cold Autumn' brought tears to my eyes and shivers up my spine. And it still does.
A gentle, sweet memories about ancient Rusia. Really should do read!
Just Fantastic..... I recommend it for everyone!
One of my all time favorite books. Somewhat dark but meaningful
I thought "Son" was the best by far.
