https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/668.We_the_Living
I think most of the books I've read in this vein were descended from "1984", but this is without doubt my favorite execution of the familiar thematic focus.
This book was just so evocative for me; it did an incredible job of capturing the crushing force of living under a sociopolitical regime that cares not for the wants or needs of the individual.
I found something incredibly uplifting about this tale of unrelenting downward pressure.
It was simply...beautiful.I've recommended it to i-don't-know-how-many people, and very few people I've ever met have read it, but this book is one of my top 3, no doubt.
I just finished this book.
My soul has never been so pained by a novel.
Very few books affect me like this one did.
I knew very little about Communism or what the USSR was like.
It caused so much anger and frustration in me, but the pain comes from the truths that it enlightens about humanity.
We are creatures of pain and suffering and joy and and triumph.
This is the first Ayn Rand novel I have read.
It is her first novel.
It is an inventment of your soul, so read this when you have the endurance to enjoy Ayn Rand's We The Living.
Kira says,"Well, if I asked people whether they believed in life, they'd never understand what I meant.
So I ask them if they believe in God. And if they say they do--then I know they don't believe in life."This is because no matter to whom you are speaking, no matter what religion they follow, God is always the highest conception of the highest possible.
A believer in God has placed their highest conception above their own possibility, above their own life.
Whatever such a person believes in, it isn't life."It's a rare gift," Kira says, "to feel reverence for your own life and to want the best, the greatest, the highest possible, here, now, for your very own.
If you're reading it simply for the novel then skip the introduction.
If on the other hand you are interested in Ms. Rand's thought processes then by all means read the introduction.
That could be the case as I noted, I'm not a "student" of Ms.Rand's philosophy, I've simply read her work and some little about her.Wherever you stand or whatever you think about the woman herself this is a book I'd recommend.
Fountainhead was the first book from Ayn Rand that I read.
I found it deeply inspirational, book that pushed me to think outside the box.
I felt even emotionally exhausted, but in a good way.
Then I read Anthem, which I thought was good, but not as Fountainhead.
I haven't had the chance to read Atlas Shrugged yet, but I don't think that it can surpass We the living.
It is one of the best books I have ever read.
It is a must read.
You don't need to like Ayn Rand or her philosophy to like this book.
The book begins with Kira, a hot little harlot who might have been working at a strip joint (if they weren't so damn bourgeois!), as she seeks to find a nightlife for herself in her newly Soviet city of Petrograd.
He happens to be a philosopher, and that's how this book meets its philosophy quota.
Over time, her close personal friendship with a secret police agent (WTF?!?) becomes sexual, and the real story begins.
Truly, trying to masquerade as faithful to multiple sexual partners is something we can all relate to.
This particular anniversary edition of Rand's first novel (originally published in 1936) has an introduction with a major spoiler regarding a choice the main character Kira makes in her life, a choice that is the heart of the book.
The important part to remember, and what makes this book relevant to me at this moment in history is this, from Rand's 1958 forward:"We The Living is not a story about Soviet Russia in 1925.
It is a story about Dictatorship, any dictatorship, anywhere, at any time, whether it be Soviet Russia, Nazi Germany, or ~~ which this novel might do its share in helping to prevent ~~ a socialist America." This book is supposed to be semi-autobiographical.
If you liked Ayn Rand’s other books, you’d like this one too.If you like her politics and enjoy her writing, then this is a must-read because it’s practically an autobiography.If none of the above applies, then this would be an unpleasant experience.Moved to https://covers2covers.wordpress.com/2...
Айн Рэндийн анхны удаа хэвлүүлсэн "Бид амьд хүмүүс" гэх энэхүү романы үйл явдал 1922-25 онд тухайн үеийн ЗХУ-ын Петроград одоогийн Санкт-Петербург хотод ээдрээт хувь тавилангаар холбогдсон гурван залуугийн түүхээр өрнөнө.Кира бол зохиолын гол баатар.
Энэ бол ердөө хүн хүнээрээ л үлдэх явдал байсан билээ.
Рэндийн орчноо илэрхийлэх уран тансаг хэв маяг, толгой эргэм романтик хайр дурлал, ээдрээтэй хувь заяа тэдгээр нь тухайн цаг үеийн нийгмийн байдалтайгаа хэрхэн уялдаж өөртөө шингээж авч байгааг нь бишрэн магтахаас ч үг минь багадаж байна.Айн Рэндийн тухайн үеийн ЗХУ - аас 21 тэйдээ Америкийг зорин гарч явсан байдаг бол романы гол баатар Кира гарч явах замдаа өвлийн аниргүй дайдад ганцаараа амьсгал хураасан билээ.
I also feel that it would work as a companion piece for 1984 because the tensions between the sordid details of daily life and the hypocrisy of the political system are clearly seen in both books.
Rand's philosophy is clear but not too overstated so it is easy to read it simply as a novel, not a political tract.
It feels like a detail added on after a first draft of the novel to distinguish Rand from Kira (she makes a point of the difference in her introduction).
While Rand experienced first-hand much of the life in Russia she portrays in We the Living, Rand smartly understood that often fantasy can be more effective than reality, hence we have incredible co-incidences, master manipulators, tragic love triangles (c'mon, what girl doesn't dream of being loved by two dynamic men?), valiant death scenes, all these sort of super-life scenarios not totally believable, but intended to enthrall the reader, likely just as Rand was enthralled by writing it.
You can tell Rand had a real fondness for "old Russia" by the sensitive way she paints a portrait of the city woven into the lives of her characters.
The plot fits the language and the behavior of the characters.
How Kira thinks is how Ayn Rand thinks....and if that doesn't appeal to you, well then the whole novel may not appeal to you.
Do strong, determined people appeal to you?This is a book that describes the Bolshevik era.
Ayn Rand's writing, her description of places and events is so sharp and clear.
The events fit the language.
Tell me!" But at the same time you know you have to wait because Kira's path takes time too.
Past events are read in a speedy blur.
It's funny because this book usually only gets 5 stars or a 1 star, and here I am giving it a three star.I'll come up with a coherent review in the morning. Overall it was a good classic. Exhausting. But good.
The former Basle professor did not perhaps imagine that he would end up as a reactionary; but obviously governments have to suit themselves to those they govern and the enormous human army of Russians--patient, resigned, fatalistic and oriental--is incapable of living in freedom; they need a tyrant; now more than ever, they, like every other people in fact, even those in the West, are anxiously looking for something solid in their institutions, ideas, and men, havens where they can cast anchor for a while and rest their souls, tired out with much wandering.” Coupled with Mussolini’s concept that fascism is managed inequality, with rule by the elite, the triumph of the few over quantity, it is readily apparent that Rand’s politics are one-part fascistic, at least in their assumptions, if not in their overall policy preferences.
Most histories and novels that I have read about that turbulent time tell of a Russia that was struggling for existence, barely legitimate in the eyes of her own citizens, in the midst of an ongoing civil war, and experimenting with a limited form of Capitalism that Lenin euphamistically called the "New Economic Policy." But that's not the Soviet Russia that Rand portrays in "We the Living".
Instead, Rand describes a government that is an ultra-efficient in its oppression of its own citizens, which was able to find dissenters who merely think questioning thoughts about the new Soviet reality, and which is able to perform super-human feats to keep their own citizens in line.I find many similarities between "We the Living" and Upton Sinclair's novel "The Jungle".
I would recommend this book to some who is either (a) lacking motivation in their life (b) wants to know more from a fictional perspective what communism is like to live in (c) has had their heart broken by an ideal (d) Rand lovers.
I want to focus on the love triangle of Andrei-Kira-Leo here.
Although carrying on a passionate affair with Andrei, she is loyal (I know, it's a paradox) to Leo always and that is the one ember that keeps her going, this all encompassing love.
Kira, starting out promising, ends up being the most disappointing female Rand character yet.
There are no amazing machines or amazing feats in We The Living, the most amazing thing that anyone does is survive under the early Communist rule.
Kira and Andrei struggle against it in their own individual ways, one choosing death over a life of lost ideals and the other dying in an attempt to escape.
Holding on to the idea of the individual must have been impossible in early Communist Russia.
Rand should know - she escaped Russia in 1926.
If you are interested in life in the 1920's, We the Living is a must read book.
The gritty realism of just how unjust and difficult such a system the Soviet Socialist Union was becoming appeals to my love of historical realism.The passionate love affairs and beliefs of the characters were very vividly drawn.
Alida Valli was mesmerizingly great as the main character, Kira, and it was the later film star Rossano Brazzi's first movie.
Several other great Italian actors were in it too, and their performances added richly to the movie.
The script stayed quite close to the book, except in one or two places where the censors had to be appeased.
Book and movie - highly recommended.

This book helped clear up some of Rand's religious philosophy. At one point, the Heroin asks a friend if he believes in God. When the friend answers no, she says that was the right answer, because if you believe in God then you don't believe in life. She goes on to explain that when people believe in God they believe in something higher than themselves that they can never achieve, and she doesn't want to believe that there is something she can never achieve. I found her reason for being an atheist ironic.
The one great benefit of reading We the Living is that it encapsulates pretty exactly what Rand spends many hundreds more pages doing in Atlas Shrugged and The Fountainhead: mainly, hating on the collective, venerating capitalism, and (God help us all) describing how free-thinking women shouldn't be slaves to anyone except their capitalist sexual partners.I find Rand's philosophy beyond problematic, but to my mind We the Living helps explain just how she arrived at the ideas she entertained and became the person she did.
(And avoid Anthem.
For the love of all that's holy, avoid Anthem!)
It reads like a Russian novel. Kira the beautiful young woman, Leo the dark handsome lover and Andrei the Communist disciple and lover of Kira. Kira and Leo are on the outer of the post revolution Russia with chequered family pasts and a belief in individual freedom. They struggle against a system that has no interest in people like them. There are inevitable deaths. Slowly the communist honeymoon ends and the return to a system that runs unofficially through the black market, black mail, corruption and greed.

Айн Ранд рисува градежа на Съветска Русия сред ледените страници на “Ние, живите”http://www.knigolandia.info/2010/03/b...Преди време написах хубави думи за другите два романа на Ранд – “Изворът” и “Атлас изправи рамене”. И за миг не съм мислел, че първият й роман ще ги надмине, но това е факт – “Ние, живите” е най-силната й книга и залагам главата си за това твърдение.
WOW...that's all that comes to mind! A book about life, death, love, struggle and hope when you have NOTHING to live for, to hope for...you just can't stop reading until the very last word and once you're done, you can't wrap your head around it. A must read so you can appreciate how lucky you are...
Mind blowing. Heartbreaking. Uncovers all effects when an impossible and irrational ideal is adapted by a country. The Communism.
A través de Kira observamos la confusión en Petrogrado aumentando gradualmente y cómo a medida que pasa el tiempo se persigue más a aquellos que no se posicionan a favor del leninismo, o simplemente no toman posición, desde los más jóvenes hasta los más viejos, y en todos los ámbitos, desde universidades hasta los subterfugios de un sistema joven y todavía sin consolidar.La verdad es que me parece todo un éxito que Rand publicara una novela tan atrevida, y además que que esta fuera la primera.
the first one by a person who knows the facts and also having escaped can tell them.”"From the Foreword by Ayn Rand:"When, at the age of twelve, at the time of the Russian revolution, I first heard the Communist principle that Man must exist for the sake of the State, I perceived that this was the essential issue, that this principle was evil, and that it could lead to nothing but evil, regardless of any methods, details, decrees, policies, promises and pious platitudes.
First published in 1936, the novel ‘We the Living’ by Ayn Rand is, as stated in the preface, ‘the closest she would ever come to writing an autobiography’.
The protagonist Kira, like Rand, grows up in Russia, is from a bourgeois family, loses all life’s luxuries and is forced to live under much hardship.
She refuses to allow herself to become overly entangled in the ideals of her family or Soviet society, life is harsh, cruel, and uncertain.Kira is finally able to enter the Technological Institute to pursue her dreams of becoming an engineer, but this privilege is also taken away due to her family’s former bourgeois status, work prospects are also difficult.
Хамгийн харгис хатуу, амсахыг хүсэмгүй гашуун, тэгсэн хэрнээ уншихгүй орхиж чадашгүй "хэрцгий" зохиол түүнээс л гарч байна.
Энэ бол үнэхээрийн сайн зохиол гэж алга ташиж, баяр хүргэхээс илүүтэйгээр зүгээр л хөмхий зуулттай хэрнээ хүлээн зөвшөөрч 5/5 оноо өгөх мэдрэмж.
2. Кира, Лео, АндрейЗохиолын гол баатрууд дэндүү хүчирхэг хүмүүс.
"Бурхан гэдэг бол хүн өөрөөсөө дээгүүр тавьдаг зүйлийн биелэл юм.
Хэрэв хүн санаанаасаа зохиосон зүйлээ өөрөөсөө дээгүүр тавьж байгаа бол өөрийнхөө болон амьдралынхаа талаар маш доогуур бодолтой байна гэсэн үг" Кира Аргунова /х150/ Лео Кирад ухаангүй хайртай, гэвч нийгмийн өмнө нугарчих шиг.
Өөрийн гэсэн үнэт зүйлээ хамгаалж үлдэж чадсан уу гэдэг их л эргэлзээтэй.
