https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79879.From_Head_to_Toe
Listen this is an incredible book. Not only is it a riveting story of attempts and accomplishments across multi-species lines (CAN you do it???), it celebrates each highlighted ability equally. Its greatest strength is the illustrations. The multi-racial children are ALL gender ambiguous and their animal pairings explode gender and racial stereotypes.IMHO 9/10; lacks clear inclusion of disabilities.
Carle obviously adores animals.2.
His hair is somewhat less pleasing than his fabricsAnd then somewhere, way, way down at the bottom of the hierarchy comes "Human face and figure." It is always jarring to me to compare his beautifully articulated animals that practically roar and pop off the page with his blocky, oddly proportioned human bodies and his primitive human faces.But it is especially jarring in From Head to Toe, in which every page pairs an animal with a human figure.
No story or character arcs at all just a bunch of animals saying "can you do this?"
Duuuuuuude I absolutely love this, and want to give it 5 stars, but WHY DID THIS BEAUTIFUL BOOK HAVE TO ADD IN THE "I'M A DONKEY AND I KICK MY LEGS.
CAN YOU DO IT?" FUCK YOU, ERIC CARLE.
I'VE ALREADY BEEN BEATEN UP IN STORYTIME, I'M NOT GETTING BEATEN UP AGAIN.
On a more reasonable note, I will just paperclip that page so it is never seen by children's eyes during storytime.
Because the book is great, with good interactive movement and different animals doing different things.
I really think it'd be great for all ages.
But damn you, donkey.
This is a very interactive book so this is not for circle time if you want them to sit. The children love to be real silly with the actions in this book mimicking what they can do from head to toe; funny indeed.
A cute book that goes through several animals showing what they can do in body movements as compared to a human. Very clever.
Jorgia loved this book so much! Lots of giggles :p
Read from the HarperCollins Treasury of Picture Book Classics . I prefer Carle's other books, but it is a fun lead in to singing. This is one my daughter can "read" alone after only a time or two of reading and she loves to do the actions as well, it's a pretty good get up and play story. -- Added board book to our shelves. 3/10/13
I took this book with me to Barcelona in my first year of uni, where I had the opportunity to teach English in a small village primary school. This was such an interactive and fun way for children to begin to learn basic words in the English language and solidify their knowledge by acting out the described movements. We read this book as a shared reading activity in their hall, acting out each page brought such excitement for the children and really boosted their confidence in learning English.
A question-and-answer format introduces young children to basic body parts and simple movements. Different animals ask the questions; several children give the answers. Young readers will happily embrace the opportunity to move and be part of the action. Young children will enjoy the illustrations and will have fun identifying the various animals in the book.Highly recommended.
My favorite Eric Carle book. Would be great when you want the kids up and moving.
I love to try all the things the animals do in this book!! My favorite is to kick like a donkey!
I love this one and need to get a copy asap. We turn it into a pose like an animal game.
For kids who can hold their necks up!
This is a great book because in this book it show different action movement for children. Also children can have their gross motor skill to move their body. They also can learn different type of emotion from this book and thing that they know. It is a good book for children.
Can you do it?In this classic Eric Carle book, he depicts animals teaching children how to do simple movements with their bodies.
It is a must read for young children.Professional Recommendation/Review #2: HarperCollins Can you turn your head like a penguin?
Carle's boldly colored collages on white backgrounds exaggerate each animal's movements and lend this 'animal-aerobics' approach to exercise visual as well as physical fun.Response to Two Professional Reviews: The professional reviews both see this book as a positive motivator for young children as well as a way to get them involved in fun movements or exercises.
The characters of the various animals and the various children show that everybody can do the same thing, no matter how different they are.
The writing style of the book contains words that are easy for the children to read.
They are very important in this book because it shows that no matter where you come from, you can do anything that other people can do.
Also, the book can open the children’s eyes up to see that a variety of animals inhabit this Earth.
The book teaches the children a variety of lessons that will open their eyes to a new perspective on the world.
The large, colorful pictures and the simple, clear text keep children bending and stretching right along with the animals!
Each page of this book has a different animal moving a different body part and a picture of a kid doing the same thing.
It's a great book for moving around and for learning body part vocabulary and some verbs.Eric Carle is an American designer, illustrator, and writer of children's books.
His background is in graphic design but since the late 1960's when he illustrated Bill Martin Jr's "Brown Bear, Brown Bear, What Do You See?" he has been creating books for children.
If you're interested in the picture book categories I'll be reading from as part of the challenge be sure to check out the link here: 2017 Challenges.After reading so much Eric Carle last year, I was happy to find that I still enjoyed his works and this one in particular.
Little did I know that this book encourages movement in children with the help of animals.
If you're looking for a way to assist your young child in moving around more or becoming more flexible I would definitely recommend this book.
I did like this book because children love to read or listen to a book that has body movement. The pictures are great, and they are easy for children to copy the movements. They are able to see different animals and how they move. During reading time we can talk about animals, the different movements, and colors.I think children would respond with excitement to this book. While reading this book, I would read it first. Then, I would demonstrate the movement the animals do. (Can you do it? I can do it!)
Eric Carle delivers another imaginative reading book to introduce the different parts of the body to children. The book allows creativity amongst children, whilst pointing at the various body parts – ‘I am a camel and I bend my knees. Can you do it?’ The main emphasis of the book is about movement – and I can see it being used in initial warm up exercises in lower key stage one P.E lessons. The book will engage children because of its interactive nature of the story.
Pretty much a standard Eric Carl book. It provides a good list of a variety of animals and verbs. The thing I like about it is that it almost invites the reader to participate in the activities the characters are doing.
Good book to get the kids participating through movement.
Any thing that gets my kid moving is good
From Head to Toe is an interactive story that is written to get children moving along with the actions in the book.
Children are able to copy what each animal does and use actions to help remember the words in the book.
This used to be one of my favorite stories growing up and i enjoyed being able to interact while reading the book.
I chose this book as apart of my author study.
I am going to be studying Erik Carle and the rest of his interactive books.
Copyright: 1997Genre: FictionPages: 32Reading Level: P-1 DLit Requirement: Interactive book 3Summary: A fun collage picture book that will make kids clap and rhyme.
The book teaches about the names of some animals but the weird thing was that some of the colors of the animals are wrong.
The wrong color of the animal is meant to bring the kids attention in and make them pay attention to what the animal is doing like staring at them.
Response: I thought the book itself is one that i would read to my kids.
Week 7: Author Study WeekInterest Level: Grades K - 2Reading Level:Grade level Equivalent: 2.5Lexile® Measure: 80LDRA: 6Guided Reading: DType of Book: Emergent Reader BookAge Range: 4-8Grade Level: Prek-2ndEric Carle continues to engage us as we read his books.
This story invites children to act along with each animal as they make a movement and mimic their movements.
I don't see any potential problems with this book to use in the classroom.I love his unique ways of drawing and showing character expression in his books with his unique way of illustrating his books.
Eric Carle took the words out of me when he expressed his book."Just as alphabet books introduce the
This is another book that first my middle child had me read to her every day, and now my newest addition requires me to read to her every day. The fun in this book is not reading it sitting down, but standing up and doing the motions along with the animals who ask the child if they also can do it. I love that this combines getting the wiggles out and controlled movement AND book reading! This book and the book Going on a Bear Hunt are some of the most loved and worn out books in the household.
From Head to Toe is a fun-filled interactive book that encourages kids to stomp, bend and move like familiar animal friends. The pictures are simple and colorful, and ones kids will enjoy.I have used this book in library story times, and the kids have loved it. The result is a lot of giggles, wiggles, and a resounding, "I can do it!"This is a great book for teaching kids to follow instructions, move their bodies, and develop confidence. Recommended for kids ages 2-6. - Sherry Ellis, author of Don't Feed the Elephant!
