https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/58077.Grave_Sight
3.5 stars! Ok, I'm going to be nice and round this up to 4 stars. My reasoning? I LOATHED, HATED Dead Until Dark by this author. I used to be Tru Blood obsessed (the television series) and the book series was a huge let down.So when my manager/boss who doesn't read PNR or urban fantasy very often told me that this was a guilty pleasure series, I HAD to read it. Plus this sounded like an adult version of the Meg Cabot (Jenny Carroll) series 1-800-WHERE-R-U, a series I grew up on and loved. When
Instead, she is left with the ability to locate dead bodies and can see what happened to them when they die.
Harper along with her stepbrother Tolliver, travel the country making a living locating bodies and determining how they died.
Through a series of events Harper and Tolliver become entwined in the investigation of the two deaths despite desperately wanting to leave town.
It surprised me because I hadn't liked this author's previous work, but this series is strong on its own and honestly much better than the Sookie Stackhouse series.
I would love to see this book made into a series or film.
Harper, the ghost whisperer, and her brother, Tolliver, are close.
Creepy close.
Co-dependent, strange sexual tension, WTF close.Some things just shouldn't beThankfully, we find out that they are not actually siblings, but that their parents married each other when they were teens.
They should have been weeded out of the gene pool as children in some sort of fork-in-an-outlet accident.This would have done the jobI can't say that there were any big surprises in this book, and the characters were pretty flat and predictable.
This series is setting up for one big giant dysfunctional family reunion ho-down.
At first, I thought that this books was great.
it didn't quite lose its momentum, I just stopped liking the characters.
In this book, everything feels a bit off.
You don't feel with or for the characters.
Even though this whole book was written from her POV, I didn't feel like knowing her at all.
She described her painful past but I still felt as if she was talking about someone else.
But to me, she felt too distant to care about.
I will probably buy the next book in this series but definitely in a paperback form only.
I really liked Harris' Sookie Stackhouse, so I thought I'd give this series a try.
Harper, like Sookie, has a limited paranormal ability - she can find dead people & see them, along with the few seconds of their death.
The limitations of her 'gift' make the story more interesting.As a heroine, I didn't like Harper as well as Sookie.
The character of Harper permeates the book (as it should, since she's telling the story) & she's just not as upbeat as Sookie, so I didn't end the book with the same optimism, but I'm looking forward to reading the next!
Ugh. I am beginning to think that the more I read of Charlaine Harris, the less I like her.
I guess I could just write a list, like our heroine, who Charlaine describes as a list-maker with little opportunity, first does 26 pages from the end of the book.
Harper was just about as boring and cold and unlikeable a character as I've ever read.
Harper's relationship with her 'brother' is super creepy.
Harper and Tolliver seem more like exes who realized that they love each other but are better as friends but who don't really want to let go either.
Great new series by this author. I love the concepts and am warming up to the characters. I love the unusual things Harper is blessed with. This one seems a lot different than Sookie, Aurora, or Lily. Which is good. I think of all her characters as distinct.Edit: it’s not new anymore. That is just what I thought when I started reading it. I liked Harper’s ability. I had read the ones mentioned above and now I have read all of these with the addition of the Midnight Texas series.
In our introduction to this interesting duo, Harper and Tolliver are summoned to Sarn, Arkansas by a wealthy widow who wants to locate the body of her dead son’s girlfriend, Tini Hopkins.
Harper and Tolliver are not made to feel welcome in Sarn at all, and while they want nothing more than to head on out to their next assignment, they are cautioned by the sheriff to stick around when Helen Hopkins, Tini’s mother, is found bludgeoned to death shortly after they visited her at her request.
Quick review:Cover: Interesting Rating:  NC-17 Steaminess:  Steam Thumbs Up:  4Overall: I found it very interestingCharacters: Well DonePlot: Small town secret come to bite you every timePage Turner: Yes Series Cont.?
Yes Recommend:  YesBook Boyfriend: TolliverSUMMARY (50 words or less)Okay, so mysteries are my first love so I enjoyed this one.
I liked Tolliver and Harper’s relationship.
I like the tension and the dynamics created between them and I overall enjoyed the story.For a full review and yummy pic, see my blog post at:http://mybookboyfriend.blogspot.com/2...
Audio ReviewAlyssa Bresnahan did a really good job with this series.
She really brought this series to life for me.
This series is paranormal, but more along the line of cozy mysteries rather than Sookie's books that are dark, sexy, and filled with vampires and other paranormals.Harper Connelly is a 24 year old, who finds dead people (bodies) for a living.
She is hired by people who are usually looking for a missing relative, whom they suspect is dead thus Harper gives them closure.In this book she and Tolliver are in a small Southern town.
Harper was hired to find a teen girl who the authorities suspect may have been abducted or was a victim of a murder/suicide.
Since then she has sort of a beacon that directs her to dead bodies.
Once close enough she can see how that specific person died and see their last moments.
So she is called out to this small town to find a body of a girl that went missing a while back.
(view spoiler)[Since so much emphasis was placed upon who the biological father of the dead girl was.
(hide spoiler)] What I couldn't pinpoint was who the actual murderer was.
Another aspect of the book was the very close, borderline incestuous relationship Harper had with her step-brother, Tolliver.
Harper has some extreme anxiety issues that only Tolliver can keep grounded.
Read this one a couple of years ago.
Picked up an Audible copy on sale.
A good read/listen while on a long car trip.
Harper and Tolliver are stepbrother/sister - very hard childhood - parents were alcoholics and one of their sisters missing.
Harper was struck by lightening and ever since she can sense how someone died when near their remains.
Usually looked upon with suspicion, they travel when hired to answer questions for the bereaved or law enforcement.
The series is good.
(view spoiler)[Some may not like the series as Harper and Tolliver develop an intimate relationship.
(hide spoiler)] 4 stars.
I did stay up till 1:30 am finishing the book up, so that says something...right?Due to a freak lightning strike when she was a teen, Harper Connelly has the ability to find dead bodies and know how they died.
The story starts when they are called in to locate the body of a missing teenage girl in a small town.
I think that was why I went ahead and finished up the book last night.
I do love Charlaine Harris' Sookie series, so I may try to give the Harper books another shot.
Things I really liked: Harper and her brother.
Glimpses of the numinous, though those were rare and wispy, more rare than the humor, which was also sparse.Things that pushed me toward the edge: claustrophobic atmosphere, and far too many murders, especially of helpless people.
The thing is, I don't read mysteries because I don't want to read about murders.
I like mysteries that don't have anything to do with murder.
I did some skimming through the middle, as we descended to one note, everyone hating on Harper as she grimly pushed forward to assemble clues.But I will try another, as I did like those things up top.
"Grave Sight" is the first book in Harris' newest mystery series.
In this book Harper and her step brother Tolliver are invited to Sarne, a small AR town, to help find body of a missing teenage girl.
The body is found very quickly, but this discovery for some mysterious reason triggers a series of crimes, some against Harper and Tolliver.
The two are forced to stay in town and eventually uncover who is behind these awful crimes.I enjoyed this book very much.
Nevertheless, I am planning to continue reading about Harper, the 4th book in the series just came out.Reading challenge: #13 - mystery
Together with her stepbrother/business manager, Tolliver Lang, Harper travels to Sarne Alabama at the request of a grieving mother desperate to locate the body of the young woman her deceased son is accused of killing in a murder/suicide.
Harper's dry, matter of fact personality and intriguing abilities make her a very appealing heroine.
She and Tolliver have an interesting dynamic as they share a closeness not usually found in non-biological siblings, and there is a certain amount of subtle sexual tension between the two that they are apparently not yet ready to confront.
Looking forward to Harper and Tolliver's further adventures.
This is a rather dodgy and unreliable line of work, as the plot of "Grave Sight" shows us.Harper and Tolliver arrive in a small Arkansas town to attempt to find a local teenaged girl who disappeared months before.
Harper locates the body quickly, and determines that Dell indeed did not kill Teenie, but instead of calming the situation, this only sets the town into a more pronounced uproar, which drags both Harper and Tolliver right into the middle of it and ends up involving everyone from high school football players to the town drunk to high-powered lawyers and the local sheriff.
I saw a blurb on the most recent Harper Connelly book and it looked very interesting so I decided to start at the beginning.This series follows Harper Connelly, a woman who was struck by lightning at the age of 12 and who, as a result, can find dead people.
Harper does, but finding the body of Teenie Harper sets off a series of events that serve to unearth a whole host of unsavory town secrets.
What set this book apart for me was learning about Harper and Tolliver.
After being struck by lightning in her teens, Harper gains the ability to see the last few moments of a person's life when she comes in contact with their body.
Doubts quickly arise as to the true nature of the crime, and the pair are introduced to the darker side of the small town as the search for a killer begins.
Or just members of the town who mistrust Harper, and her abilities...~*~*~*~*~I didn't mind this series (more the first three books, though).
I'm probably only one of two people in the world who isn't a fan of the Sookie Stackhouse series, but I was definitely looking forward to reading Charlaine Harris's GRAVE SIGHT.
I wasn't disappointed--I think this book is an excellent start to a new series.
As they travel to the town of Sarne, the bodies start piling up, Harper and Tolliver are suddenly suspects in a murder, and the suspect list just keeps growing and growing.
The outcome was definitely, at least to me, unexpected, and I thoroughly enjoyed this beginning of Ms. Harris's new series.
Thank goodness Charlaine Harris has more than one series going, so I can continue to get my fix!
In Grave Sight, Harper is called to a town to find the body of a young girl who was supposedly killed by her boyfriend, who then committed suicide.
Harper finds the body and when she "reads" the boyfriend's grave, she discovers that he was also murdered.
And, with her other book series, Charlaine Harris gives us something to think about as we empathize with the main characters.
Story-wise it's a good mystery and I didn't guess the ending until...well, the end.
I'm not sure if this will be explained a little more in the next books but so far she's not that likeable.
Her brother Tolliver is a bit of a mystery too and I'm still not sure what makes him tick.It's a good book but I'm hoping it will become a bit more fleshed out in the rest of the series.
Reread this time by audiobook - I also have the paperback.Harper can find dead bodies and figure out how people died. She's hired to go to a town to look for a missing girl and get embroiled in a huge F-up there. I really like these books but just to warn you they're very dark and not humerous at all. As I was listening to this book I started to realize that Charlaine Harris is one deep woman. Her books are so different and so intriguing. She really is a talented writer.
The only problem is that nobody really wants Harper there, especially after the body is found, two other body are confirmed as ‘murdered’ and another death strikes Sarne again.I admit that I think I may have liked this book a whole lot more the first time I read it.
I found Harper to be a intriguing character her talents is still nothing I have read in any other book, that I can remember, but I think I found Tolliver even more interesting.
But actually, I quite enjoyed Grave Sight: again, as with the Kelley Armstrong books, I found that it was light but fun, and with the bonus of the non-sexual intense relationship between Harper and her step brother, too.
See also: my massive love for Supernatural and the erotically co-dependent Sam and Dean (which this book has a fair amount in common with).There's nothing especially unique about this, it's true, but it's actually full of strong female characters, interesting relationships (e.g. the casual but not meaningless sex that Harper has)...
I'm not sure how I feel about this one yet.
I'm a fan of Ms. Harris' Sookie Stackhouse series.
So I decided to check this one out.
At first I was really enjoying it.
I started connecting with the characters right away.
Then about halfway through it all just fell apart.
Even though it was written in first person, it seemed distant.
And when I'm reading first person, I want to feel like I'm part of the story.
While reading this one, I didn't feel like I was really in Harper's head.
I felt like I was outside looking in.

Harper Connelly has a special ability. She can sense where dead people are and how they died. When she and her brother Tolliver get called to the town of Sarne Arkansas, she finds much more than the body she was paid to recover. Harper is not the most endearing heroine we've ever read about. Nor was the mystery very difficult to figure out. But for me it all worked as something different than anything else I've read lately. I'd go 3.75 stars but will round up for originality.
I love quirky characters and stories that are totally different. I hit the jackpot with this series! As much as I love Harper and Tolliver... the truth is they're weird. This series is part mystery, part semi-paranormal with a little bit of taboo romance thrown in to boot! It's one of my favorites!
After reading the Lily Bard series, I have to admit to being a little disappointed by Harper Connolly. The book seemed slow and it took forever to resolve. I'll continue on in the series to see if there's improvement.
There's nothing wrong with this. It's a solid, well crafted murder mystery with touches of the paranormal. Unfortunately, this is not up to scratch when compared to her Sookie Stackhouse series.
