https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36381091-the-cabin-at-the-end-of-the-world
the characters are part of the draw - the happily vacationing family at the center of the situation are eric and andrew and their seven-year-old daughter wen, whom they adopted from china as a baby, and they are as loving and enviable a family as you could possibly want if you were looking to illustrate the “terrible things happening to good people” angle.
‘How would I do a home invasion novel I’d like to read?’ I guarantee you have not read one like this one before.Image from JoeCruzMM.files.wordpress.comThe intent doesn’t matter much if you do not care about those in the home being invaded.
(When the going gets seriously tough, the seriously tough get going to FourHorsemenOutfitters.com, your goto provider for your end-times needs.
Review posted – 3/16/18Publication date – 6/26/18=============================EXTRA STUFFLinks to the author’s personal, Twitter and FB pagesHe has a story collection coming out in 2019, and his next novel in 2020.An excerpt - from Entertainment WeeklyI sure hope Tremblay doesn’t take a shovel to my review.
Please."I love that, when you pick up a Paul Tremblay novel, you never know exactly what you're getting yourself into until you finish the book.
Regardless of which book you've taken to mostly, I think all who enjoy his books can agree that no one writes about the dark and gritty unseen moments of domestic life like he can.
That said, I enjoyed The Cabin At The End Of The World, but it wasn't my favorite.
I did enjoy the plot, but I think I'm middle of the fence on how the ending worked for me.
But one day a man approaches Wen while she is busy catching her grasshoppers and tells her "None of what’s going to happen is your fault".
and "Your dads won’t want to let us in, Wen. But they must.
Tremblay has the reader caring so much for their characters that of course, we don't want those four-people coming into their lives and into their cabin.
Why should the reader care about what the four-people invading this home have to say?I would have given this book 5 stars had it not been for the ending.
You discover pretty quickly that Tremblay only has a couple ideas with which to prop up The Cabin at the End of the World, and a whole lot of pages are spent with repetitive dialogue as the characters go back and forth, and back and forth, and back and forth some more, arguing the same freaking points over and over and over and over and over in laborious fashion.
In terms of home invasion horrors, The Cabin at the End of the World has an excellent killer premise.
But this book asks that question in an unique way- right before it rips your heart out and stomps all over it!Eric and Andrew take their daughter Wen on vacation to a remote cabin located on a lake in the woods of New Hampshire.
Unfortunately, their dream vacation came to a screeching halt when a large man named Leonard wandered into their front yard and started talking to Wen. Soon thereafter, three more people join him and together, they enter the cabin.
First, I love the way that Paul Tremblay writes families.
Run to the cabin she does to warn daddy Eric and daddy Andrew.
The cabin doors are bolted....the man as BIG as a boulder and his scary entourage appear, and the relaxing week at the lake turns threatening and deadly.
No doubt about it, THE CABIN AT THE END OF THE WORLD is a horrific tale, one of sacrifice and survival and for me so much better than A HEAD FULL OF GHOSTS.
if you think you can handle a few hours of suspenseful horror and evil-doing.......time is running out.
I really think this is a book that is best to go into blind.
He makes you care and because you care you just keep flipping those pages hoping beyond hope for the safety of this family.There is one scene in this book where I will admit that I cursed you Mr. Tremblay ....HOW COULD YOU DO THAT?
*Weeps* I think the ending of this book is going to get a lot of people talking.
People are either going to love it or hate it.
I found it to be tragically romantic if that is actually a thing.
One last thing....COVER LOVE!
A little girl chasing and catching grasshoppers runs into a gentle giant who wants to be her friend, offering to help her catch more of the insects.
That seems okay to her at first, but then he starts bugging her to let him inside the cabin to talk with her dads, assuring her that none of what is going to happen will be her fault.
I almost got a tension neck reading this with my shoulders all scrunched up like an old crone.
I liked this author's A Head Full of Ghosts just okay, but Tremblay really ups the ante in a big way with this one, in my opinion.
Writing a review like this is more difficult when the author is quite active on bookstagram etc, especially when they are a pretty cool guy, as Tremblay is, but I do believe it's of the utmost importance to always be honest in your reviews.
This book was majorly hyped on bookstagram but unfortunately it really fell flat for me.The first 50 pages or so were incredibly promising - I was HOOKED and needed to know what happened next.
It was basically 250 pages of a group of characters arguing with each other and no one really taking a minute to calm down and ask the intruders to explain everything from the very beginning to the present moment.
Review first appeared in the September/October 2018 issue of Scream Magazine!So this book, The Cabin at the End of the World by Paul Tremblay is going to be my new ‘go-to’ recommendation for any reader that still thinks horror is only “blood & guts and scary stuff”.
He only writes scary stuff right?”I try not to take offense to these sort of ignorant statements (I say ignorant not to be insulting but truly because they just don’t know).
On the off chance there is a horror section, it’s usually a whole bookcase with King and Koontz because, well, they have a lot of books and they write in the same genre so...voila!
With the threat of an apocalypse and intense need to protect family the fear and anticipation was oozing from the pages.The story begins with seven year old Wen out in front of the cabin that she is staying in with her two dads, Eric and Andrew, just doing what kids should do playing outdoors and trying to catch some grasshoppers.
Eric and Andrew do their best to protect each other and their daughter from the mysterious strangers who are claiming the end of the world is coming and the fate of every lies in their hands.
**4.5-WTH DID I JUST READ-STARS**Well, this book launched me into the throes of a full-blown existential crisis.What is life?
Are you there God, it's me Meg?Wen and her Daddies, Andrew and Eric, head off on a family vacation to a little cabin in the woods of New Hampshire to unplug from the world for a while.
Wen knows she shouldn't talk to strangers but this man seems nice and eventually gets her to let down her guard.
If you are someone who likes everything to be tied up with a nice little bow at the end however, this may not be the book for you.
Wow!
That was brilliant.
I am overwhelmed.
The Cabin at the End of the World is a non-stop roller coaster ride of violent shocks that keep coming.
Your worst fears are realized you are under the control of a malignant group of strangers who won't rest until you make a terrible decision--you must end the life of someone you love.
A triumph of horror down to the macabre weapons of these 4 horsemen of the apocalypse, The Cabin at the End of the World, is never banal, always triumphant.
in its belief in the human spirit and of love.
Sooo good. Not what I expected at all. A true thriller. My full review will be up on my booktube channel at http://YouTube.com/peterlikesbooks
It follows a gay couple Eric and Andrew and their daughter Wen. I loved reading about a LGBT characters in a thriller, because they are so underrepresented in thrillers, and it's amazing to see it being normalized like this.
I absolutely adored Andrew and Eric and Wen in this book, which is what made this book so hard to read!The writing in this book is really gorgeous, and really intense!
I love seeing an LGBT couple at the center of a horror/thriller novel, and I wish there were more books like this.
This book is not that short and the circumstances were not ideal but I could not stop reading it.
If it is night time and you are in bed, when you finally finish it you're going to have a hard time getting to sleep even if you've stayed up to the wee hours.Horror novels and thrillers should, in my opinion, mainly be exercises in creating feelings or moods.
I should say up front, a lot of people are not going to like this book.
I liked that despite all the tension Tremblay still gives his characters room to breathe.
I typically write my reviews as soon as I'm done reading the book so my thoughts are fresh and I say exactly how I felt as I turned that last page.
The blurb on the back cover sums it up perfectly: a "...gripping tale of paranoia, sacrifice, apocalypse and survival..." You really don't need to know anything more than that before going in.The beginning starts off innocently enough as we get introduced to the adorable 7 year old Wen catching grasshoppers...
(true story)Look, this book has a LOT going on - it's a tale of faith, loyalty, love and sacrifice.
Repetition galore.And, the ending was exactly what I predicted when the four of them finally got down to actually discussing what they were here for.I still say Tremblay's Head Full of Ghosts was one of the best horror reads of last year, but this one is so goddamn bad, I'm honestly questioning if I missed some badness there, or Tremblay actually got someone else to write this particular stinker.Honestly, had I known it was this awful, I wouldn't have read this novel if it was the last one in the last cabin at the end of the world.And for those keeping score, of the five hotly anticipated books of this year, King disappointed me, Kepnes let me down, but Tremblay cratered.
What can I say but that Paul Tremblay is brilliant! Full of dark suspense, paranoia and fear.. this story will definitely blow your mind!!! Crazy intense to the end (which left me wanting more), a solid 5 heart-stopping ☆ read for me. No second guessing to adding A Head Full of Ghosts to my tbr!
I received this ARC in a giveaway from the author.I'm going to hide any major spoilers in this review, but I am including a short synopsis, so if you want to go into this book knowing nothing you should stop right here.Seven-year-old Wen and her dads Eric and Andrew take a vacation to a remote cabin on a lake in New Hampshire.
I was incredibly anxious and almost literally on the edge of my seat for most of the story.(view spoiler)[The strangers are religious zealots who all claim to have had the same visions and are convinced that they needed to travel to the cabin in order to stop the apocalypse from happening.
See that you are not frightened, for those things must take place, but that is not yet the end.
When the events turn grisly and things in the world seem to point to the happenings these people have predicted, the story takes a gruesome turn and people will die.This is certainly not my normal read but I was taken with the book's explanation and the story while terrifying, kept me interested as it came to its conclusion.
Are some lives more elite than others?Thank you to Paul Trembly who offered me a look at his vision of the end of the world.
Much like our gorgeous couple, I went back and forth between not believing the people who had disrupted their peaceful lives and wondering if maybe they were actually telling the truth.This is not a casual read and if you’re going through a stressful time in your life you may want to put this book on hold until your stress event has faded somewhat.
I kept getting this image of my life being this red stress ball at the time and reading this book felt like adding sharp metal spikes to it.
4.5 Stars!THE CABIN AT THE END OF THE WORLD, by Paul Tremblay, is an intense, emotional novel of raw psychological horror.
Once begun, there was simply NO place that "felt" like a good stopping point.
Each was a so well fleshed-out, and their love for each other so complete, that I couldn't help but feel this was the perfection of a family unit.Then, come four strangers with a mission of their own .
I won't go into any details of the action in the story itself, because this is simply a book that you need to read yourself in order to fully experience it.
And this is just one of the problems I had with the book.To start off, I read this book on Kindle and I really enjoyed the first 10%.
I’m kind of glad I did in a way but only because I don’t like leaving books unfinished.The Cabin at the End of the World didn’t work for me at all.
Their outcomes were my only reason to continue reading.I’ve seen a lot of folk fawning over this book, and that’s fine, I’m happy it worked for them (really I am.
I'm a Paul Tremblay newbie and The Cabin at the End of the World was my first reading experience with him.
It leaves the reader with the question: When the end of your world comes, how will you respond?
My favorite quote:"Maybe the world should end if any small part of it was made to be like this."Note: I originally rated this book 2-stars but have since raised it after reflection.
After recognizing my personal issue and separating it from the reading experience as a whole, I think 3-stars is fair.
The Cabin at the End of the World, the latest from horror master Paul Tremblay, begins on the front lawn of a secluded cabin: Wen, a girl of seven, is catching caterpillars and naming them.
What Tremblay has proven in recent novels is he specializes in writing children, and those skills are well utilized here.
This is novel that rips and bites like old-school horror: daunting and psychologically challenging, it is comfortable in its own skin as a scary modern story.
Doing so would give one a basic idea of what to expect from this novel; Tremblay manages to shock, however, as only he can.
Paul Tremblay is the real deal! CABIN AT THE END OF THE WORLD is a heart-pounding, edge of your seat thriller that will leave you with one simple question - what would you do?
This book is going to be the most difficult book to review in 2018, I can call this out now. Wow, I am at a loss for words at the moment. How do you review a book that you're still questioning about a day later?  The Cabin at the End of the World  is my first attempt in venturing into Paul Tremblay's world of horror and psychological suspense. The story's arc is your typical home invasion horror (one of my favorite movies The Strangers comes to mind), mixed with the confusion and chaos reminisce
How do you review a book that you're still questioning about a day later?
The story's arc is your typical home invasion horror (one of my favorite movies The Strangers comes to mind), mixed with the confusion and chaos reminiscent in the movie 10 Cloverfield Lane.
Immediately, several people walk toward the house carrying makeshift weapons and demand to talk to Wen's parents.
Leonard and his group demand to talk to the family because they believe that they can save the world.
Once you pick up the book, the story immediately carries you to a world of chaos with no moment to relax.
The Cabin at the End of the World is definitely not a book for everyone, and personally, I would not recommend this to readers who prefer stories that tie up neatly with no ambiguity.
One wonders why Leonard and his pals didn’t just leave their weapons in the woods and approach the house pretending to be a family in need of some help after their car broke down, as it would have spared us all this pointless time-wasting and back-and-forth.In some ways, I feel The Cabin at the End of the World would have probably made for a better short story.
