https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/345396.The_Awakening_Land
Conrad Richter wrote some of the most wonderful books about pioneer life in the mid-West. I read The Awakening Land (actually 3 seperate books) after I watched the mini-series back in the early 80's. His book, "A Light in the Forest" is one of my all-time favorite novels.
(Actually it's three books bound in one: The Trees, The Fields, The Town.) I liked reading them bound together so the story could continue on immediately.Conrad Richter was an excellent writer!
I was led to read The Awakening Land after reading one of Richter's short stories, "Early Marriage." I was enthralled with his style in that story and was not disappointed in his longer works.
I've read many books by selected authors because they write really good, hard-to-put-down stories.
But I believe this is the first author I choose to read just because he writes so beautifully.
They come to Ohio when it is a howling wilderness (hard for me to imagine) with wolves, poisonous snakes, Indians, and an endless forest.
The main character is a woman named Sayward, with husband Portius.The book is filled with memorable characters, both good and bad.
At the end Sayward thinks that the first settlers in the rugged wilderness were all different, but when civilization comes everyone is the same.Much of the book is almost poetic.
The long war that Sayward wages against the forest is an epic.
She wins, but as an old woman she misses the trees and plants new ones.
excellent
The books center around a family of pioneers in Ohio, with the oldest daughter, Sayward (or Saird as she's known) being the pivotal character.
But once you get used to the nomenclature (i.e. using the word "butts" for "trees" for instance)it's a great read.
They endure hardships, lose people to the wilderness, to sickness or just running off but at the heart are a family and the theme of family stays strong throughout the books.
Richter's prose reflects that and introduces more "educated characters" including Sayward husband, a lawyer from Rhode Island.
Richter does a great job with his characters and a view into the world of the settlers.
Sean years ago located this amazing and rare collection for me. I have an obsession with the passage of time, how fields become cities, and the people who made it happen. That's what the three books in this collection do, take you from forest to city, accompanying a very compelling no-nonsense heroine, from girl to old lady.
By far, one of the best trilogies I've ever read. Richter's style is poetic and deep. The series centers on the primary character, Sayward, following her from youth to matriarchy and old age. At the same time, the frontier itself is a character, developing from wild forest to fields to town. Richter puts you right there in the thick of it. An amazing accomplishment.
The three books take the main character from childhood to old age and the land where her family settled from wilderness to a thriving town. An American classic. The Town won the 1951 Pulitzer for fiction. I read these books as a child and the stories stayed with me. Enjoyed the second reading just as much.
I read this many years ago. It remains one of my favorite pieces of literature ever. I intend to go back and read it again as soon as time allows! Sayward and her journey through this young country are moving and timeless.
You will enter the world of families beginning a new life in the Ohio wilderness. The saga is told through the voice of Sayward, the eldest daughter.The edition contains all three of the trilogy - The Trees, The Fields, The Town. They can also be purchased separately.
An epic trilogy of bygone days and turbulent times.
The unravelling of Sayward Luckett's story, in settling Ohio, turning it from woodland, to farmland, and to a town will envelope, haunt, and inspire you--this must be the among the greatest overlooked classics of American literature.
If ever there is a book about the life, influence and power of an early American woman this is it.It could be easy to wish for bygone days when finished with this masterpiece, but in doing so we would miss the point.
The point being it is not only in circumstances of the past one can be a pioneer.
I really loved this. While I read it many years ago, several parts of the book still stick with me.
My favorite book of all time! This was a reread.
A very long, detailed novel, but so good.
The first book, The Trees tells the story of a family who has left Pennsylvania when the United States is new.
Starting with a hunter/gatherer existence the family carves out a new life in the wilderness of northwest Ohio.
When more settlers start populating the woods, he leaves the family for good in his obsession to hunt and be less confined.The Fields continues the family story of settlement as the trees give way to farming.
He is a lawyer who left "the Bay State" under mysterious circumstances and is living a solitary existence in a hut.
From the standpoint of our modern sensibilities this book has flaws.
But this book is not about modern sensibilities.
Conrad Richter could be called an environmentalist in his evocation of the primeval forest and a feminist in his admirable portrait of his strong heroine, Sayward Luckett Wheeler.
The first two books of the trilogy, the Trees and the Fields, are the best, describing the pitched battle to subdue the forest.
Richter is sorry the forest is gone and so am I.
There his voice rang true and strong and unforgettable.
I quit in the middle of this book, which means I made it through 300 pages before giving up, so it's not terrible.
Theoretically, I love this book.
But Richter's pacing was just too slow.
The idea of following an area and the characters over a lifespan in the early stages of American frontier is pretty good.
I even suspect the character stories were about to improve since the protagonist's children are starting to enter young adulthood.
I just couldn't take it anymore.
Along the way, there are themes of family, love, adultery, death, and heartbreak.
I loved how this book started out - it's actually 3 books, I read them all in one.
The three books are entitled, "The Trees," "The Fields," "The Town." Pretty obvious, a family settles in a forest, they burn down the trees into fields and then create a town.
I enjoy books that are real life.
The last book however got a little strange for me; pessimistic and more overtly political than the others, that is the reason for only 4 stars.
I would recommend to anyone who enjoys historical fiction.
Yes I know that I am currently reading two books with similar titles (The Awakening Land by C. Richter/The Awakening by K. Chopin)but trust me this was a coincindence. This book is somewhat LONG and will take me a while to read because it uses words and terminology that I am not used to. It is set in the early 18th century and main characters are mostly ignorant eastern pioneers. I have to keep stopping to google words like ranker, bullet mould and haunch drippings!
This trilogy (THE TREES, THE FIELDS, THE TOWN) should be required reading in America. Though not a fan of multigenerational sagas, I LIVED WITH SaywardLuckett, her parents and her progeny, from the opening paragraph as theyfollowed the game out of Pennsylvania into the forever-forest and the future.Truly there were giants in the earth....
I lived inside this series as I was reading them. The details and descriptions, from inside the characters, gave my imagination a lot to work withI have now an even deeper appreciation about what sturdy stuff our early settlers were made of. Sayward is an extraordinary character.
I remember loving this book. Especially the first one The Trees.. I still have one of them hardbound on my top shelf at home. The other two I lent out. I'll re read at least the first and see if I still love it.
Mostly forgotten fiction from the 1950's, the second installment, "The Fields," won a Pulitzer Prize for Richter. Vividly and poignantly describes life on the Ohio frontier during the early years of white settlement
Always one of my favorites!
Awesome story, re-read several times. Was made into a movie after i read it, but did not do it justice, although movie with elizabeth montgomery was pretty good.
Three slim books that tell the tale of Sayward "Saird" Lucket and her family in the settling of Ohio. Wonderful story. Beautifully written.
The Trees was excellent, The Fields good and The Town seemed sooo looong. The author should have stuck to his style he used in the trees.
This is a series of three books in one. It was really interesting, but I'm putting it down for now .
F Ric
One of my favorites reads of all time; the story of the settling of the Ohio Valley where I grew up. This is truly a neglected masterpiece.
