https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1697363.Star_Trek_I
The Final Frontier goes to the Big Screen!  THE FORCE FACTOR This is the novelization of Star Trek: The Motion Picture, written by Gene Roddenberry, but I think that Alan Dean Foster must be the "ghost writer" of the novelization.I think that all was due the "competition" between Star Trek and Star Wars, and since around that time, was published too the novelization of Star Wars (known nowadays as Episode IV: A New Hope written by George Lucas, and while that was already exposed that it was ind
This is the novelization of Star Trek: The Motion Picture, written by Gene Roddenberry, but I think that Alan Dean Foster must be the "ghost writer" of the novelization.I think that all was due the "competition" between Star Trek and Star Wars, and since around that time, was published too the novelization of Star Wars (known nowadays as Episode IV: A New Hope written by George Lucas, and while that was already exposed that it was indeed Alan Dean Foster, at that time.So, I supposed that it sounded good that both creators of the two sci-fi franchises would be the writers of the novelizations of the movies.
Since George Lucas indeed wrote the original script but for obvious reasons wasn't able to invest the proper time to write the novelization of Star Wars, I found quite odd that Gene Roddenberry would actually write a novelization from a script made by other people.
My mom was a huge Star Trek fan, and she was so excited that there was a movie after years of watching re-runs of the television show.
As I added books to my cart, I realized that the Star Trek series would be a great start to my quest to pare down my TBR in 2018!
I found the footnotes to be a distraction, rather than interesting asides.A lot of Star Trek fans today agree that the first movie was not very good.
At the time, the special effects were amazing, the refit of Enterprise was sweet, and the return of the familiar crew was exciting.
All right, I'm going to come right out and say it: because of this book, The Motion Picture is my actual favorite Star Trek movie.
The book's main and most invaluable service is showing what a gosh darned good plot TMP actually has, underneath all the...
The book also illuminates our much-loved characters motivations and backgrounds, adding breadth and emotion and making this a must-read for TOS fans.
(If you, like me, have a tendency to think of TOS - or at least the movies - as the love story of Kirk and Spock, then wow, your life will be improved tenfold by reading this.) (What's up, "not helpful" ratings.)
This is a rare instance of a novelization of a movie being far better as a book than as a movie.
However, I am reasonably certain that Alan Dean Foster, sometimes believed to have written the novel, did not.
There were some fingerprints I think I'd recognize if I ever come across another sample of this person's writing again.
It's surprising to learn that there is really quite a good story here that the movie took ninety minutes too long to convey, but that the book tells just fine.Still, the book is not a 5-star book.
This book explains so much that the movie doesn't, and as it is written by the show's creator, it's given even more weight.
I'll echo what others have said, "it's better than the movie." And there's actually a few little snippets in there that didn't make it into (or were just slightly altered from) the movie's commercial release.
I read it at a time when I was a big TOS (The Original Series) trek fan.
I remember hearing Gene Roddenberry speak at a Trek Con down in Detroit (1980?).
He gave some small talk about his favorite episodes and introduced the fan favorite TV blooper real.
It was my first sci-fi related con and a real eye-opener witnessing the wild fandom that followed Star Trek.
Unfortunately, it does get bogged down a lot by anatomical descriptions of the sexual kind and I find it kinda gross how Decker and Kirk think about Ilia and then later on the exact mechanical replica of her body after she has been killed...
I’ll take the week long entry of the Enterprise in the film over this.Plus the final reveal works a lot better on film.I did like that we got to explore a bit more depth into the characters in terms of motivations and emotions.AND THE PLOT IS STILL SO GOOD THIS IS SUCH A GOOD SCI-FI PLOT DESPITE THE UNFORTUNATE SUBPLOT ABOVE!!!!!
2.5. the movie plays better than the book Roddenberry wrote and that's saying something.
*3.5 Stars**The Gush*I'm going to commit a horrible Star Trek faux pas: I don't like this movie.
However, aside from those things, I actually liked this novel.
BECAUSE IT ACTUALLY EXPLAINS THINGS!
There are also a few footnotes in the book that explain or clarify things from Kirk's POV.
Instead, they cut out key parts that actually explain what the heck is going on!
Kirk is explained.
The thing and Ilia and her clone are explained.
I, in fact, remember several times when they were completely not okay with similar instances.
Furthermore, within the first couple of pages Kirk literally gets a hard-on at the sight of the illustrious Lori Ciani (who is quickly killed off and then never mentioned again), and I can absolutely tell you more about the smell of Ilia’s pheromones than I can tell you about her personality, for which she apparently has none.
Finally lets touch upon a point that the author felt the need to stress at multiple times throughout the novel.
Its five-year mision: to explore strange new worlds, to seek out new life and new civilizations; to boldly go where no man has gone before." -Captain James Tiberius Kirk.
The man, who created Captain Kirk and all other Star Trek characters, puts them all together again here in his first Star Trek novel!Kirk, Spock, McCoy, Scotty and all the crew have scattered to other jobs or other lives.
But now an alien force has treatened Earth and the human race, and the crew must venture out into the deep space to meet the challenge.
If you aren't familiar with Star Trek, then this great book will suck you tino its world.
loved reading the book of the film.
As stated by other reviews the start gives some interesting back story and ideas into what earth is like in the Star Trek universe but the rest is very similar to the film.
However it does fill in some more details of what the characters were thinking.
I actually really like this Star Trek film as I think it fits in well with the Star Trek ethos.
Although slow in places it reminds me of 2001 Space Oddesey.
I enjoyed being reminded of all this in the book and the vivid description of Vger.
This certainly explains things better than the movie and without the odd cinematography and pacing. Although the 3rd person omniscient POV come across as very strange when you remember that this book was supposedly written by a reporter that the Enterprise crew spoke with after the events of the book. (How did the author know Decker's thoughts? Ilia's? Vejur's? We just don't know.) I would have liked if Decker was given more personality so that his actions at the climax of the story had a more solid motivation, but the motivations given were ok, too.
Dreadfully written, horribly sexist, contains 80% less K/S than I want.
So the impetus for reading this book was my first viewing of 'The Motion Picture itself' and I know the infamous reputation the movie has as the "Slow Motion Picture" or "Motionless Picture" but I personally enjoy it as a visual masterpiece and a strong science fiction tale.I won't go into great detail about the movie, since almost every Trekkie should have caught a glimpse of it by now, the book is a somewhat different creature.First of all I found it an unusual but interesting concept that the introduction (in my edition anyways) takes the form of a preface by Kirk himself, explaining that the events presented in the story is a manuscript penned by Gene Roddenberry - talk about being meta!
This is the first Star Trek book published by Pocket Books after they acquired the franchise from Bantam.
When the cloud next destroys the Federation out-post station Epsilon Nine, the station sending the pictures of the Klingon distruction, the Federation knows it must react quickly.With this huge anomaly now heading towards Earth Kirk is called back to federation headquarters in order to give advice on how to handle the impending crisis.
A good job of relating what was in the movie and a good beginning to the Pocket Books franchise which will control the publishing Star Trek books and full length novels many year into the future.
I've honestly been putting off reading this, and now that I've got around to it I can't believe how much better than the movie it is!
But it's such an improvement - there's more character work here for one, and although the pacing isn't perfect, it still swept me along a little in a way that simply didn't happen with the source material.
I've been reading a lot of this franchise lately, and I have to say I like the older, introspective Kirk trying to hang on (and wondering if he's hanging on too long) much more than I like his younger, brasher self.
In fact, I'd go as far to say that this is the best Star Trek tale ever told.
It captures everything I love about science fiction while also expanding upon characters I've grown to love over many years.
Roddenberry's genius vividly comes to fruition in this tale as well.
(view spoiler)[ One small thing I noticed that I greatly enjoyed was the shift in perspective that happened when the novel discussed V-GER.
This really captured the entire perspective of what was going on.
(hide spoiler)]Overall well worth the read to any Star Trek fan or general science fiction lover.

This novelization seems to be a faithful retelling of the movie, as best as one can remember.
Images of Shatner, Nimoy, and Doohan come to mind as different scenes in the book replay in the mind.
The story itself is novel if one is unfamiliar with the plot.
It flows smoothly and develops well throughout the pages of the book.
Star Trek always had a hint of sexy time and this novelization includes some veiled (and a few not so veiled) references to that as well.
Otherwise, anybody who would be interested in this book is probably mature enough to handle it.
Explains lots of stuff that was glossed over in the film, and doesn't spend a mind-numbingly long time on the visual aspects of V'Ger and the cloud it generates. Also everything in the novel is about 150% gayer than the movie, which is excellent. It's very important to me to know that Kirk actually engages in self-reflection about his motivations for taking over command of the Enterprise, since the movie made him look like a self-important bully.
This novelization of the movie was absolutely fantastic. So much of the inner struggles, dialogs, and motivations that couldn't translate to the big screen enriched the plot immeasurably. And the depth and detail describing things that made no sense to look at in the movie made it all so much more interesting and philosophical.
As a standalone book it was allright. The storyline wasn't earth shattering, but I really enjoyed the character's perspectives on their lives post Enterprise 5 yr mission. When compared to the movie though, wow. The movie leaves out practically the whole plot.
Better than the movie. Which isn‘t really saying that much. At least it‘s quite short and rather painless which isn‘t something you can say about the film. Also: How many times can one use the word „lovely“ to describe a big floating space cloud machine thingy?
This book makes me incredibly glad Rodenberry didn't write more Star Trek books...
A well written movie novelization that adds some background to the movie and more context to the characters.
Was as good as the movie..
I know this is over-used but I had watched the movie before getting the book and the book explains things so much better than the movie did. Glad I found this.
The novelization of the first Star Trek film isn't perfect by any stretch: it moves from one thought to another entirely too quickly at times (Kirk's relationship with Nogura, for instance) and some of the characterizations are off.
But what it brings to the story is a warmth largely missing from the movie.Here, we see the crew interact as if they know each other with their individual quirks coming through loud and clear.
There is a deeper understanding of the emotions and thoughts of the lead characters missing from the movie itself.
There is a desperation, primarily from Kirk, in confronting V'Ger.
I love this story because it showcased what Star Trek is about, and is pretty mind-blowing to boot.
