https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14891.A_Tree_Grows_in_Brooklyn
Some books give young girls dreams of ponies, kittens, and visions of eternal love.
Even if you're the best person in the world, life can still slap you in the face, and you can only take what fate has handed you.
Parents can and will play favorites, despite your best efforts.Even if your mother works her hands to the bone to support you and your brother, you will secretly love your wastrel, drunkard of a father more, for unfathomable reasons.
Not all little girls need constant beauty and joy and complacency.
They need to know that they, too, can survive and thrive, despite what life throws at them.
"Dear God, let me be something every minute of every hour of my life.
Let me be gay; let me be sad.
Let me be cold; let me be warm.
Let me be truthful; let me be a liar.
Let me be honorable and let me sin.
Only let me be something every blessed minute.
And when I sleep, let me dream all the time so that not one little piece of living is ever lost.""Don't say that.
Then she has to find something else to do with her time.""I know that's what people say- you'll get over it.
It's such a simple story--Francie Nolan is a smart little girl who's trying to find beauty in her sometimes ugly, always poverty-stricken life.
Her adored father is wonderful, but too plagued by his own demons to support his family.
Her mother loves her children fiercely but is often harsh because she thinks it's her job to keep them grounded in reality (oh, and she seems to love Francie's brother more).
Together, this family lives dirt-poor in Brooklyn.
But from this simple premise grows a tender, heartbreaking story.
It's the only book that fills me with sadness just by thinking about it.
This was the Brooklyn of the 1950s, yet by immersing myself in Betty Smith's timeless A Tree Grows in Brooklyn for two days, I entered into an environment that was both wholesome and dangerous and a perfect setting for coming of age: the Brooklyn of the 1910s.
The Nolan parents may have been born in Brooklyn, but both only had an eighth grade education and had been working in factories from the time they were fourteen.
For an adolescent girl reading this for the first time, A Tree Grows in Brooklyn would be a special experience.
طالما كان جوابي علي سؤال : (ما هي روايتك المفضلة؟) هو أن لم يخطر اسم معين ببالي بمجرد قرائتي للسؤال، و لذلك يمكنني القول أني لم أجدها بعد. ******************************26/7/2016  في عامي الثاني و العشرينشجرة تنمو في بروكلين روايتي المفضلة.فرانسي نولان أجمل فتاة في العالم، أحبك.
An historical document(?) You know what, I'm not done talking about Ghostbusters, so we better stick with "a historical document."The book is excruciatingly detailed about day-to-day life in Brooklyn during the early 1900's, down to what they had at the candy store.
Just what happens at your average Brooklyn pickle place.So I get why it's important, but that doesn't mean I want to read it.
My brother would tell you that without Casablanca there is no Ghostbusters, and I can't disagree with that.
But it's true, and that means there's really no time to waste on something that, though not terrible, just isn't doing much for me.
Loved it from page 1Slow paced and really descriptive but I loved it.I really enjoyed learning about life back then for the NolansHighs and lows of life and daily experience I was so emotionally attached to Francie. She was a brillant character and I loved her to pieces
I opened the page.....Started reading and fell in love with the story of Francie and her family, living in Brooklyn during the early 1900's.
Kate her mother, a very strong woman who worked extremely hard, Johnny her charming, hard drinking Irish father and her brother Neely a short year younger than herself.
We don't have this anymore in this global world and that's a shame imo.Would I have appreciated all the nuances of family life within this story, the struggles they went through if I had read this when I was in school, I think not.
I loved reading about this young girl who loved to read as much as I did.
How I could relate to her love of going to the library and finding that special book - that treasure!
Thus, this book became my treasure.
It holds a place on my favorite book list!Francie Nolan is a very poor young girl living in the slums of Williamsburg.
She finds pleasure in the things she can, while enduring hardships such as no or little heat, lack of proper food, loneliness, assault and loss.
They are flawed, make mistakes, but always try to do the right thing.
Betty Smith's "A Tree Grows in Brooklyn" has been passed down through at least three or four generations and is highly regarded as a classic novel perfect for any young adult bent on entering adulthood and escaping from the gaping clutches of a complicated childhood.
If she could survive-no, flourish-living in the slums of Brooklyn with a drunk Irish father and a mother who was not always there for her, why could I not do so in absolute comfort?
Still, as every young adult feels at one point during this trying time, I have often thought that there was no one to whom I could turn for steady support)Secondly, Betty Smith wrote the novel in a fluid, page-turning manner.
"I want to hold the way the night is - cold without wind.
I want to hold all of it tight until it hollers out, 'Let me go!
Let me go!'"The title of this novel refers to a tree that grows persistently up through the concrete and harsh conditions of a poor tenement neighborhood in early 1900s Brooklyn.
She is a sweet, innocent girl who grows and flourishes despite a harsh environment of neglect and poverty.I fell in love with Francie.
And they are beautiful.I just want to hold all of them tight until they holler out, "Let me go!
It has love and loss and pain and happiness and wonder and ugliness - all candidly and unapologetically presented to the readers allowing them to arrive at their own conclusions just as Francie Nolan has arrived at hers.Apparently when this book was published in mid-1940s, it caused a wave of disappointment and disagreement with the subject matters it raised, the subject matters that some of the public, like the well-meaning but clearly clueless teacher Miss Garnder in this book, probably found too 'sordid' for their taste: the poverty, the pro-union message, the lack of condemnation of female sexuality, the alcoholism, the treatment of immigrants unfamiliar with their rights, the exploitation of the poor and weak ones by those in power - you name it.
مخطئ من يظن أن لدينا حياة واحدة لنعيشها، مادامت هناك روايات مثل شجرة تنمو في بروكلين
The tree that grows in Brooklyn isn't about Brooklyn at all.
From the eyes of ever-evolving Francie, who writes about it all, writing herself out of nightmarish situations (deaths, hunger, & a sexual deviant that lingers in the hallways) and childhood idylls (trips to the candy store...
& feeling validated, loved, cared for).
She describes things that are funny & tragic at once; because she survives the story--this is a loose autobiography, infused, no doubt, with the novelist's godly fictions--we end up loving her.
&, implicitly, we fall in love with family, childhood, life, fiction, history.
I felt like the last person in the world to have read this book, and based on what everyone has said about it over the years, I expected this to be the next best thing after the Crispy Potato Soft Taco at Taco Bell.
But as I read the first 200 pages, I thought everyone was out of their freaking minds.
Things actually started happening, and the chapters weren't just excuses to explain some sort of mundane aspect of Francie's life.
This book lacked that for a good portion of the story.When things did get interesting, I started to understand why so many people love this book.
I enjoy photographs that take something ordinary or dreary in real life and turn it into something interesting and beautiful, and this book is the written equivalent of that.There is a section of this story when Francie meets with her English teacher, in which Smith states one of her theories on writing, and it has stuck with me.
Her teacher dislikes these stories and tells Francie that successful writing is always about something beautiful and better than life.
This is a major conflict for Francie because her father was a beautiful, better-than-life person to her despite his alcoholism, and she feels her teacher’s judgment of their poverty.
Yet, what little things can make it up; a place of shelter when it rains—a cup of strong hot coffee when you're blue; for a man, a cigarette for contentment; a book to read when you're alone—just to be with someone you love.
Which one brings the most guilt: surviving hunger and not returning to feed every child, or surviving and refusing to speak up about it?Coffee stains form tiny dots across the ridges of my book's pages, tinted strokes that become one with the flaws and dinginess of humanity.
I think most of the novelty of the story is how different our world is 100 years later.
The writing didn't really do much for me—so much of it felt like things happening to Francie as opposed to her actually doing things.
I felt like Betty Smith was just telling me all of it but not showing it to me.
Overall it was an okay story that I'm SO glad to have finally read (it was on my shelf for years), but it's not one I connected to as strongly as so many others.
When Johnny dies an alcohol-related death, leaving behind the two school-aged children and another on the way, Francie cannot quite believe that life can carry on as before.
As she heads off to college at the end of the book, Francie leaves behind the old neighborhood, but carries away in her heart the beloved Brooklyn of her childhood.No matter your age or your status in life the rich prose A Tree Grows In Brooklyn will fuel your dreams and bring joy to your heart as you are transported to another time.
This book has so many beautiful lines which have a lot of depth. A true classic.

Kate favours Neeley, the son, while Johnny, the father, provides the love and understanding Francie needs.
Personally, I was deflated to learn there was no sequel; I loved Francie and felt I had grown up in Brooklyn with her.
So probably I do know what happened in Francie’s later life although I still wanted to read it, wanted to hear it in Francie’s words.Anna Quindlen, in her wonderful introduction says: “It is not a showy book from a literary point of view.
I think it is a story that remains relevant no matter the year or your age.
I wish twelve year-old me had known this book existed, and had been able to experience the life of Francie Nolan when we were closer to the same age.
I have never in my life related more to a quote from a book than I did this one:“From that time on, the world was hers for the reading.
Books because her friends and there was one for every mood.”I had a hard time making friends with kids my own age when I first started school.
I'm just soooo not into this right now. Maybe I'll pick it up again at a later date!
Read concurrently with my son. They don't do characterization like this anymore. Rich, multi-layered, and ultimately a song of hope. One of my fave reads of recent years.
A Tree Grows in Brooklyn is my absolute favorite book of all time.While the story is set at the turn of the century (1902-1919) and contains many historical elements that may feel alien to the modern reader, the message that is subtly and intricately woven into the fabric of the story is one that I feel not only transcends the ages, but also one with which many of us can identify.The protagonist, Francie, and her family represent the sort of wonderfully complex characters who come alive in the reader's mind as fully as if they were old friends.
No words can express the love I have for this book. Pure Perfection for this reader. It will be added to the favorite shelf.
OH WHAT A WONDERFUL COMING-OF-AGE STORY!In Betty Smith's classic, A Tree Grows In Brooklyn, she re-creates the challenging world of extreme poverty, starvation and hardship that she grew up in as a girl and teen in the Williamsburg slums from 1902-1919.As an avid reader, it is hard not to fall in love with Francie, her love of books and the explosive excitement she feels from learning and attaining her goals.
Between papa's shenanigans, crazy ole Aunt Sissy, and the disappointments of young love......not to mention Francie's encounter with the pervert.....I can only say, I don't know why I waited so long to read this memorable and entertaining classic.Highly Recommend!
4.5 stars to this timeless literary feast that sets a high bar for the definition of characterisation.
It was definitely my delicious slow burning read of the month.
This American modern classic is set in 1900s, and about Francie Nolan's coming-of-age story.
Throughout the book, we follow Francie.
It's a really slow book, not much happens, but a lot happens at the same time :) I can say, if you like action packed books, maybe it's not for you.
But, if you like slow burning, real life stories with complex character development.
Then, Betty Smith's book is amazing.
And this year I discovered that it was one of the most popular books on my TBR, much to my surprise.WHAT Makes It A ClassicA Tree Grows in Brooklyn probably doesn't count as a classic in the UK because it's a very American story.
A Tree Grows in Brooklyn is an utterly wonderful and unforgettable tale of family and growing up.“Oh, magic hour, when a child first knows she can read printed words.”WILL It Stay A ClassicIt's a beloved book in the USA and I'm sure it'll be read for many years to come – Francie's tale will never stop being poignant.WHO I’d Recommend It ToPeople who love young adult and children's fiction.
