https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48200.A_Lost_Lady
A Lost Lady is the story of Mrs. Marian Forrester and young Neil Herbert who adores her.
But Marian is not perfect, and she begins her downfall in Neil's eyes when he discovers she is having an affair while her husband is away.
Later in the story, after her husband has died, Marian has a relationship with the despised Ivy Peters, and her decline is complete for Neil.
Willa Cather always develops memorable characters in her novels, and Marian Forrester is no exception.
I've read most of Cather's novels and I put A Lost Lady right up there with My Ántonia and One of Ours.
Ha letto My mortal Enemy?"   Senza un'espressione particolare rispose: "Per la verità l'ho scritto."L’opera della Cather ebbe una prima versione cinematografica all’epoca del muto, nel 1924.La signora in questione, Willa Cather, che all’epoca di questo incontro era prossima alla fine del suo cammino, aveva indimenticabili occhi azzurri, dell'azzurro chiaro, vivido, tenero dei cieli sopra le praterie.Echi di bovarismo, perché ogni donna che cerca di sfuggire alla monotonia del vincolo matrimoniale e della vita di provincia va sempre ricondotta al celebre personaggio flaubertiano; profumi di Henry James ed Edith Wharton, per qualcuno anche nuance di Tolstòj, per me invece la fascinazione da innamorato in erba che il giovane Neil nutre per la signora Forrester rimanda a “The Go-Between” L.P.Hartley; grande scrittrice, apprezzata al suo tempo, meno dopo la sua uscita di scena, adesso riconosciuta ma non ancora celebre, Willa Cather pubblicò questo romanzo breve nel 1923 ambientandolo alla fine del secolo precedente.
Narrated in indirect style by Niel Herbert, an impressionable young man besotted with the irresistible charms of Mrs Forrester, the novel provides a tone, a lyric and an ethical vision of life that goes beyond the accurate portrayal of this lost lady.Cather seems to link the inexorable degeneration of an idealized woman with the extinction of the pioneers’ American dream.
When the mask of romantic infatuation falls down from his face, the true nature of Mrs. Forrester is revealed, history has moved on and a new page is about to be written, leaving all glories of past days as mere postcards, blurred memories of better versions of ourselves.Quite an enlightening novella, and one that will introduce the reader to a less known facet of this romantic writer.
Earlier this year, in the Fall, my family decided to go through all of my grandma's old books.
I was looking at this book, A Lost Lady, when my cousin came in and told me how incredibly boring Willa Cather is.
I really loved this book.
It made me feel nostalgic in a way that I just adore.
It's a coming-of-age story in a way.
But, as time goes by, he accepts her as she is, both in real life and in his mind.
Even if it takes some time.

un personaggio femminile immerso nel fluido dei facili costumi riceve e dà al romanzo una spinta verso l'alto pari al peso della reputazione spostata.
Her themes : America gradually moves into the "modern world," and Americans painfully come to terms with life.
Niel Herbert gets to know Mrs Forrester when he's 12 and she is in her 20s, married to a much older, kindly gent.
The story criss-crosses their lives and changing America.
As Mr Forrester said, "My philosophy is that what you plan for day by day -- you will get.
Unless you are one of the people who get nothing in this world.
There are such people." Many years later, in his 30s, Niel learns the fate of his "lost-lady."
My review: https://theblankgarden.com/2017/12/16...
A young man grows up worshiping an older, gracious woman but he can't forgive her for choosing a vigorous, full life over his youthful, staid definition propriety.
You can feel his angst over his puppy love for her battling the static vision he needs from her.
She however, has her own longing to keep living and loving to her fullest ability.
Cather explores how well we can actually know and understand others.
As a young woman the aging heroine married a much older man.
He honors her with this more complete and intimate understanding of her in a way the heroine worshipping boy can't.
Há livros em que me sinto perdida para dizer algo sobre eles.
Embora este não seja considerado o seu melhor romance, a sua leitura é um prazer, quer pela escrita - delicada e cativante -, quer pela história que conta: a de Marian Forrester, uma mulher que não renuncia ao amor, mesmo indo contra as convenções da sua época; e quando a fatalidade a atinge inventa forças para lutar contra a adversidade, mantendo sempre a vontade de viver...
"Ela conservava ainda a sua natureza indomável, qual actriz a representar o papel de sempre - mas no teatro, para a ouvir, só restavam os maquinistas de cena e os ajudantes."
Load up on details about landscape, and the weight takes the story down.
I've been wedded to that view for a LONG time, but I recently got a divorce -- thanks to A Lost Lady.
Well, maybe not a divorce, but I've agreed to a trial separation.
The surprises in the plot of A Lost Lady are not the came-out-of-nowhere type.
Cather's characters are fascinating.
And her descriptions of the natural world are actually interesting.
Who knew?
Other readers, of course.
I should have read Cather's novels years ago.
Very glad that I finally read this one.
También es un relato sobre el paso de la adolescencia a la adultez, donde todo nos es revelado tal y como es, sin el tamiz que aporta la ingenuidad y la candidez típicas de la juventud; cambios que se reflejan en las diferentes etapas por las que pasa la relación entre el joven Niel y la señora Forrester.En la contraportada de la edición de Alba Editorial se comenta cierto episodio entre Cather y Scott Fitzgerald, a propósito de la semejanza de esta obra y El gran Gatsby.
A Lost Lady is both an outstanding portrait of transitional America as well as a character sketch of a pioneering woman in a small prairie town of the central plains: Mrs. Marian Forrester.
Her husband is an aging older man, influential and wealthy, who made his fortune in the railroad business.
She is a woman with charm, passion, and intelligence, admired by many in the rural town of Sweet Water.
The story follows her life, a life seemingly of quiet satisfaction and steadfast loyalty, through the eyes of a young narrator who is attracted to her.
A great American classic.
Should be read by all Americans.
Fin da bambino è sempre stato affascinato dalla risata e dai modi della donna, ma la maturità lo costringerà a guardare oltre la superficie ed è così che, attraverso le crepe, riuscirà a scorgere cosa giace dietro gli occhi brillanti e i lunghi capelli di lei, dietro la sua risata melodiosa e scrosciante come un ruscello.La prosa di Willa Cather rispecchia a tutti gli effetti il fascino della sua protagonista: è leggera, morbida e scorrevole.
I thought I'd read all of the Willa Cather books worth reading -- the "big six" novels (My Antonia, The Song of the Lark, One of Ours, The Professors House, O Pioneers!, and Death Comes to the Archbishop), all of which are brilliant, and most of the stories -- but then I stumbled upon A Lost Lady for the first time this month and was very much delighted.
The oblique, retrospective narrative voice is strikingly reminiscent of My Antonia, but the story itself is probably the most nuanced, even ambiguous, of Cather's works.
I like her understated prose, and I like that her characters can simultaneously be symbols, yet vibrant and complex people that defy simple descriptions.Cather thought of this book as a character study, which is gutsy, as Marian is narrated almost entirely through other people (and men, at that).
This isn't a book for people that have to love the hero/heroine.
This isn't my favorite of hers (I LOVED Death Comes for the Archbishop), but it is a great classic for people that can't invest the time for a Tolstoy.
The pity is that I was first introduced to Willa Cather while in grade school.
She was force fed to me because, surprise-surprise, I grew up in Nebraska.
It has taken me years to come back around and give her a fair shake.And yet, I still don't like this novel.
Its an easy read, most of her works are.
The characters also simply fell flat.
Cather's characters usually remain understated, but passionatate, here however, they lacked her usual depth to me.I would recommend her other books, such as Oh!
They are simply better, while this truly isn't the best representation of her work.
Wonderful character study. Not a happy book, but a reminder that even the noblest among us can be reduced under circumstances, particularly in the eyes of someone who has created a vision of a person who never really existed.
This is the first book I've read by Willa Cather.
I liked most that every word counts, that Cather tells her story in a direct way.
When I look at today's publications, I'm often mystified by 500+ page counts that seems to sale books.
It's the quality that counts!
And there must have been hundreds of thousands of American women during the "wild west" development with much the same story as in "A Lost Lady." .
You'd think, from 1960s TV westerns, the women were either prostitutes or dedicated housewives with no mind of their own.
However, I really did not care for any of the characters and frankly I felt like this book was enforcing traditional gender roles.
but I'm sure my AP teacher will discuss this book when school rolls around.
I felt like she needed a rich husband for her to be "her best." The book is probably focusing on just Mrs. Forrester and not implying that all women in general need rich husbands to live happy lives.
And even if Willa Cather was implying that...
times have changed and everyone knows that is complete CRAP.
but who knows my thoughts might change.
I continue to be amazed at the consistency of Willa Cather's work.
Cather's also been a reliable bet, and A Lost Lady didn't let me down.
It's a classic portrayal of the changing American West as only Cather could give us, with her simple, beautiful language.
I haven't read anyone quite like her, and I think she's an absolute delight.My only quibble is that the cover of my 1972 Vintage paperback shows a strawberry-blonde woman, so the couple of times Cather mentioned Marian Forrester's black hair threw me off.
Still like the cover, though.
Now, I'm not going to try to be precise since I'm not acquainted with the American geography but it is basically a tale of a phenomenal woman living in a laid back, rural American town.The book is narrated from the eyes of a young boy Neil Herbert who is enamoured by her beauty and nature, falls in and out of love with her and continues to think of and respect her until and after her death.This is a book with much earth-moving action but is a slow, leisurely tale driven by the characters, especially of Mrs Forrester, a beautiful, enigmatic woman with charms that arrest every eye that meets her.
It also paints a picture of a beautiful town growing and changing, modernising and becoming shrewd and is a great, great read if you are a person like me who likes these kinds of books.
*3.5/5 stars.
A fabulous book.
Throughout the years contained in this book, chivalrous Niel insists on referring to the lady by her married name: Mrs. Forrester.
This boy is a future serial killer, okay?So naturally, Ivy comes back in the second half of the book and fucks with our narrator's world view.And because Willa Cather had her agenda, our narrator assigns the blame to Mrs. Forrester, who essentially is just trying to survive, all moral scruples aside.One way to interpret this is to question the double-sided sword of chivalry.
Ug.And not to put too fine a point on this book's "situation," but it looks like Niel totally has a chance with Mrs. Forrester.
He initially has a romanticized view of Mrs. Forrester, a pretty young aristocrat in town, but eventually, his feelings toward her shift and become much more complex once he discovers her flaws.Niel's narrative of disillusionment corresponds to the narrative of America.
The country was still young throughout the nineteenth century, and as it changed into something different while entering the twentieth, many Americans saw a previous nobility giving way to greed.Of course, in both cases, the ideal that was believed in was a false one.
Even Captain Forrester, the symbol for an old world nobility and a seemingly beneficent citizen, provides glimpses into his own thinking that shatter this myth.
It is an examination of Marian Forrester, the young wife of one of those old pioneers, as seen through the eyes of young Niel Herbert.Cather, to say the least, does an eerily good job of writing from a young man’s point of view.
“Nice” is not exactly the word I would use to describe the old railway man’s wife.
And those are, of course, the very best kind.I cannot say I was wowed by A Lost Lady, but then, I don’t think that was Cather’s intention.
Bel romanzo che però per la sua brevità non sono riuscita a gustare appieno. Molti temi purtroppo vengono solo accennati (come l'attaccamento alla propria terra e ai valori di un'era, quella pionieristica, che sta per lasciare il posto a quella industriale), e personalmente avrei preferito che il romanzo fosse decisamente più ricco e approfondito, ma la scrittura della Cather è evocativa e carica di simbolismo, e il libro si fa leggere comunque con piacere.
“He had seen the end of an era, the sunset of the pioneer. He had come upon it when already its glory was nearly spent."“but she had always the power of suggesting things much lovelier than herself, as the perfume of a single flower may call up the whole sweetness of spring”I was surprised I liked this book as much as I did. A good, quick & moving read!
Willa Cather does it again. I really enjoyed this story. Willa Cather's descriptions of small town life and characters are superb. The way that Niel views Mrs. Forrester and the change from small town to capitalistic ways over the years is an interesting parallel.
