https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/346780.Eirik_the_Red_and_Other_Icelandic_Sagas
Some of the characters and places are in common between the individual sagas but from a reader point I feel they are discrete.Having read a few sagas I can say that the editors and translators are what make or break a collection and this editor does am amazing job.
Gwyn Jones brings the translation to life eloquently and vividly, the beautiful turns of phrase make these sagas clear and almost contemporary in feeling.
Read this for Myth & Saga.
This translation seems relatively clear, though, and aside from the confusing names, it's easy to read.
The history you get glimpses of, the Viking encounters with Native Americans, is interesting -- I think I knew a bit about it before, but it's interesting to actually read literature about those encounters.Probably, since I'm studying it, I should reread the relevant sagas soon, to get a better grip on them.
When I do, since I'll have more experience with reading sagas by then, and I'll have been to all the lectures, I might add something to this review.
Some of the sagas in this collection really wouldn't have been out of place in Tolkein's Unfinished Tales.
They read very much like rough early drafts of tales from Middle Earth.The first few sagas drag somewhat.
King Hrolf and his Champions is by far the longest tale in the collection — albeit still only a hundred pages or so.
But this is ample time to actually get involved in the story and allow it to build to a fine climax.
The final battle in this saga that closes the book is both suitably epic in scale and surprisingly moving.
A fine book overall.
I just was not very impressed with the language use in this collection, it lacked any poetic quality (even the short snippets of verse seemed to lack a poetic feel).
The first story was terrible.
Such petty squabbles, and simple minded concerns were difficult to relate to.
Perhaps these types of feuds were in fact the main concerns of peasants in this sort of environment, who am I to say?
If it was I can't say it makes for terribly interesting literature.
The latter stories in this collection were more interesting by far.
This collection tells the tales of the mortal men of Iceland and the surrounding areas showing how the culture and communities of the time valued their ancestry and their honour above all is.
These sagas also deal with the discovery of America by the Icelandic people and of the introduction of Christianity and how this changed the culture and religion of the Icelandic communities.
Overall an interesting and engrossing collection that is well translated and accessible to any reader whether they have a previous knowledge of the Icelandic culture or not
Yes, it's 'Eirik', not 'Eric', or close enough, in modern English. I wrote about him in my "Glome's Saga" book, one of the more memorable Viking era characters and a great pitch-man. Want new settlers to come to a place, sight unseen? Call it "Greenland", even if it isn't, so much. Of course his son Leif, considered lucky, helped popularize the re-discovery an exploration of Vinland. His daughter might have been the toughest of the bunch, though, and the meanest.
Wonderfully entertaining...and even a bit mysterious because in one of the stories written over 1,000 years ago the writer describes with a high degree of accuracy the northeast coast of North America including what seems to be present-day Massachusetts!
Never met an Icelandic saga i didn't like and this is no exception. Entertaining and enlightening to the culture of the time.
If you like Tolkien, dig deeper.
As the Gen Y would say, "Lit AF."Horse thieves, shady real estate developers, in/famous kings, water, boats, helmets, and so on. So good. End tales move towards true-ish-not-true-at-all-come-on. But undead battle!!!!!Language proves fair well challenging at times. Sometimes a street battle passage at a time. In other cases, the whole darn tale. Suspect on the part of multiple authors across a span of time since the translation is singularly perform. By nameplate, at least.If you're ready to take your reading game to the next level then step up on it!
Read this as a follow-up to a video course on great discoveries. The "Eirik" section is fairly short; most of these sagas are hard to follow and/or boring.
All right, I couldn’t be bothered finishing it when I left norway. It’s ok. Might pick it up again one day when I’m in the region.
Fans of fantasy writers such as Tolkien will clearly be able to see parallels - such as the man cursed to spend half his time as a bear.I found it difficult at times to keep up with the family trees and who was related to whom - some of the names are very similar and while it may have been interesting for the story-tellers and writers (and their audiences) to explain everyone's lineage in great detail, it's headache-inducing for a modern reader.
Overall a reasonable read with some interesting historical elements, but you can clearly see where the story-tellers used certain formulas when composing/reciting their tales which makes them repetitive in a collection like this one.
Certainly chock full of classic from +/- 1000 years ago.A few were a little hard for me to get through - they seemed more focused on telling confusing lineages of similarly named people only vaguely connected to the story. Almost biblical in those points.On the whole though, rollicking good times were had reading about the Scandahoovians and Icelanders - especially the ones telling of going to the new world hundred of years ahead of that other fellow who gets all the credit in popular culture.
In the end this was tough reading. It was interesting to see a whole bunch of old stories that basically had no supernatural or magical elements - just stories about real people. Of course, the real people were always fighting and killing each other. However, the stories at times were difficult to follow because there were just too many characters introduced as relations to the central characters.
Fascinating stuff, and particularly enjoyed reading the tales of Eirik the Red arriving in Greenland and the north west coast of America a millenium ago. In many of the stories people seem to travel between Sweden, England, Iceland, Ireland, Orkney Isles, etc at the drop of a hat, as you clearly do. Some other tales included here tend towards complicated family tree and wedding match stories.
I tried to read this and couldn't get past all of the names.
A fascinating contemporary account of the Norse in North America including tantalizing glimpses of the indigenous peoples encountered.
