https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12585.The_Optimist_s_Daughter
Welty moves the story from a New Orleans hospital to small town Mount Scalus , Mississippi.
Even though Mount Scalus prays that Fay leaves town, Welty has created in her a character who embodies life moving on and changing how things are done in a small town way of life.
Having read my share of Pulitzers, The Optimist's Daughter holds its own yet does not quite rank as high as some of the other novels I have read.
A testament to Welty's illustrious career, The Optimist's Daughter is a short novel that intimately defines life and relationships in a southern small town.
"Memory lived not in initial possession but in the freed hands, pardoned and freed, and in the heart that can empty but fill again, in the patterns restored by dreams."  Eudora WeltyEudora Welty won the Pulitzer Prize for this book in 1973. It was written much later than the bulk of the rest of her work. She had, as it turned out, one more little gem left in her pen. I've read some other reviews and realize that the book was confusing to some people even to the point that they gave up relativel
It was hard to have sympathy for the character Fay McKelva, but it was only after I had finished the book and had pondered on my feelings for a while that I realized how crazy that town was driving this little girl from Madrid, Texas.
She was sent to sleep under a velvety cloak of words, richly patterned and stitched with gold, straight out of a fairy tale, while they went reading on into her dreams."Judge McKelva dies and then the struggle between the daughter that has known him her entire life, and the new wife that has only known him a short time becomes painful.
Eudora Welty (1909-2001).
She was 92 when she died.
A life that spanned almost the entirety of the 20th century.
A lifetime of writing achievement crowned by her masterpiece, The Optimist's Daughter.
Many readers overlook Welty or disregard her work because it is "stuffed" into a certain genre, Southern Literature, which limits her exposure.
But life is life and people are people, and Welty had the innate skill to bring the complexities and nuances of everyday life to her characters in a way that very few writers are able to do.
And that is what is most evident in The Optimist's Daughter.
The Optimist's Daughter: Eudora Welty's Celebration of Life and Memory "But the guilt of outliving those you love is justly to be borne, she thought. Outliving is something we do to them. The fantasies of dying could be no stranger than the fantasies of living. Surviving is perhaps the strangest fantasy of them all."--Laurel McKelva Hand It is bittersweet to write about this little gem. It comes with no frills, no literary allusions, no photographs.My mother died on February 1, 2012. She gave me
The Optimist's Daughter: Eudora Welty's Celebration of Life and Memory
But perhaps tears are better shed in privacy, as opposed to Fay's widow's breakdown, perfectly timed and very public, though I suppose there is a place for that, if the feelings are true.Welty puts this story together in layer upon layer as carefully as my grandmother put together a coconut cake at Christmas.
But he moved forward where Laurel did not.I can't put my hands on that Christmas gift from years ago.
And when I do, I will read that gift from a Christmas so long ago.As Miss Welty said, 
She realizes that in the end, we are left with nothing but fond memories of things that used to be, and people that have passed through our lives, touching us in ways that will never be forgotten.
Who needs things when you have a memory like this one:When Laurel was a child, in this room and in this bed where she lay now, she closed her eyes like this and the rhythmic, nighttime sound of the two beloved reading voices came rising in turn up the stairs, every night to reach her.
But this was a happy occasion that called for minimum mutual griping -- and, while Little Bro's girlfriend is well-versed in just how deeply fucked up our parents are and understands our need for the sporadic bitch session, I tend to clam up about such things around her, as her much more loving mother died when she was 14, leaving FSIL at the mercy of both a father and step-father who did not treat her at all like her good-hearted self deserves.
Achingly beautiful. There is a reason this book won the Pulitzer Prize. There is so much space between the words on the page. You have to do some filling in, and because you have to involve yourself more while reading, you start to merge with Laurel, the narrator. All of Laurel's thoughts and feelings become that much more poignant and revelatory. The story is also imbued with the melancholy and fatalism often seen in good Southern literature. This short book deserves several readings.
"Even if you have kept silent for the sake of the dead, you cannot rest in your silence, as the dead rest." I think it should he considered good etiquette not to attend a funeral even if one is invited, if one isn't heavily grieved by loss of the deceased or of his/her close ones. I mean what is point of creating an indifferent crowd busy in gossiping and telling tales when there are people genuinely mourning? Isn't disrespectful for dead? As it is, there is friction enough even among those gen
As it is, there is friction enough even among those genuinely grieved (which explains the argument in last chapter for me) Mourning seems to be a very private thing that people are forced to do in public.The impersonal, distant narration - with a lot of conversation thus had made this book a two star stuff.
It is one of those novels best appreciated in retrospect.The same can be about Fay. Marrying a rich man twice her age, hiding the existence of her family and too melodramatic ways - she doesn't seem to get a lot of sympathy.
“Between the optimist and the pessimist, the difference is droll. The optimist sees the doughnut; the pessimist the hole!”  ~Oscar WildeI guess I saw the holes in this book. The Optimist's Daughter won the Pulitzer Prize and is considered by many a modern day classic. I hate giving low ratings on what are considered classic books because it makes me seem unsophisticated somehow. However, I just don't understand the praise for this book. I didn't feel the characters were very developed, I felt t
“Between the optimist and the pessimist, the difference is droll.
The optimist sees the doughnut; the pessimist the hole!”
~Oscar WildeI guess I saw the holes in this book.
The Optimist's Daughter won the Pulitzer Prize and is considered by many a modern day classic.
I hate giving low ratings on what are considered classic books because it makes me seem unsophisticated somehow.
However, I just don't understand the praise for this book.
It's books like these that make me question why I put myself through this and force myself to read classics.
Thankfully there seems to be more classic doughnuts than classic holes.
"Memory returned like spring, Laurel thought.
Memory had the character of spring.
As is the present.Memory and death are two of the major themes of this short novel, but along with these is rebirth, both of the Judge's home garden, described in careful and loving detail by many, and of his daughter.
Perhaps also of the Judge who seems not to have been truly living for some time.I found so much to enjoy here; there are the same poetic writing I've come to expect and anticipate from Welty and the characters who are both eccentric and very human.
I'm talking about The Scene-Stealer.It's not Judge McKelva, the self-proclaimed Optimist of the book's title.
He gets bumped off early: some issue with his eye requires surgery and then his heart gives out unexpectedly during his recuperation in the hospital.And it's not Judge McKelva's daughter, Laurel.
But, honestly, that's hard to do on St. Patrick's Day.But I perked up every time Fay, the Judge's second wife, came on stage.
And when her family from Texas shows up for the funeral, you see that she got it honestly.Maybe there should be a sequel: The Scene-Stealer's Daughter.
I must be missing something, as it's won the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction and has numerous sparkling reviews, but I did not enjoy this book at all.
At only 180 pages, this book was still a struggle for me to get through.
I often wondered if the protagonist, Laurel, wasn't a bit slow given her absence of interaction with other characters.
All-in-all, I was left dissatisfied and wanting after reading.
Perhaps if there had been more character development, I would have become more involved and vested in the outcome.
As it was, I was bored and disinterested by the confrontation at the end and simply wanted to be done with it.
There is little that could be mistaken for humor, and I felt a total abhorrence for the character, Fay, which is also a departure from what I have come to expect from Welty.
Her characters are generally likable at some level.Of course, the subject matter, death and its aftermath, is so serious and Welty addresses it head on.
I felt so sad for Laurel and the complete loss she experiences.
Even in light of all the kind people who care for her in the town, she has suffered a loss that cannot be lightly comforted.Perhaps, having lost my own parents, I felt this at a visceral level.
B.R.A.CE. 2018 Ένα βιβλίο που ήταν υποψήφιο για το βραβείο Pulitzer   και το κέρδισε κιόλας!Καλοσυνάτη προειδοποίηση σε περίπτωση που το συγκεκριμένο βιβλίο πέσει στα χέρια σας:"ΜΗΝ ΞΕΚΙΝΗΣΕΤΕ ΜΕ ΤΟΝ ΠΡΟΛΟΓΟ" Spoiler όλο το βιβλίο! Αφήστε το για το τέλος σαν ένα υπέροχο επίμετρο που, ευτυχώς για την ύπαρξη του, θα σας βοηθήσει ( και με βοήθησε όντως ) να καταλάβετε παραπάνω το κείμενο που διαβάσατε.Νομίζω για το συγκεκριμένο βιβλίο να "μιλήσει" στον αναγνώστη, πρέπει ο αναγνώστης να έχει ζήσει
2018 Ένα βιβλίο που ήταν υποψήφιο για το βραβείο Pulitzer
και το κέρδισε κιόλας!Καλοσυνάτη προειδοποίηση σε περίπτωση που το συγκεκριμένο βιβλίο πέσει στα χέρια σας:"ΜΗΝ ΞΕΚΙΝΗΣΕΤΕ ΜΕ ΤΟΝ ΠΡΟΛΟΓΟ" Spoiler όλο το βιβλίο!
Παραδέχομαι πως με τον πρόλογο / επίμετρο μπόρεσα να εκτιμήσω καλύτερα το κείμενο, τι ήθελε να πει και που ήθελε να με πάει.
A perfect novel about family, hometowns, the grip of memory, and the dignity of living with sadness. So quietly and eloquently written and brutally full of heart.
A Filha do Optimista, que deu a Welty um Pulitzer, narra o reencontro de Laurel McKelva com o passado, na pacata cidade de Mount Salus, Mississípi.
Quando se inteira do estado de saúde do juiz Clinton McKelva, com uma grave e inexplicável complicação num dos olhos, Laurel regressa de Chicago para acompanhar o pai até Nova Orleães.
Nesta viagem, segue também Fay, a segunda mulher do juiz, mais nova que a própria enteada e natural do Texas.Em Nova Orleães, Clinton é observado por um médico conhecido da família, cujos estudos ajudou a financiar.
I think it was the description of the funeral and really hooking into Welty's understanding of the intricacies of southern etiquette, spoken but more importantly unspoken (yet expected.) It really solidified it for me when she describes books and how they connected her to her father, who has just died.The neighbors respect her father for his strength while dying of cancer, while his young second wife is silly and has spurts of dramatic mourning that are not what people want to see."There's no telling when she last had a decent home-cooked meal with honest vegetables," said Miss Tennyson Bullock.
Welty's novel has spunk.
Horrified by the new wife's character at the beginning of a narrative that seems built around an old man dying, my initial impression was that this book would be an ensemble cast narrative of a specific Southern community and somewhat comic but lightweight reading.
Just when you think the introspection is where the book will leave off, however, Welty satisfies with some sharp dramatic prose that takes the book full circle.
They gave it a rich and satisfying feel, almost as if the author had said: "Oh, you think you're reading one kind of book.
Laurel Hand travels from her home in Chicago to New Orleans when her father, Judge McKelva has an an eye operation.
After the judge's death the women return to Mt. Salus, Mississippi with his body, and friends and neighbors who've known the McKelva family for ages come around to express their condolences, help out, and so on.
Meanwhile Laurel remains in her childhood home for a weekend, visiting with friends and trying to come to terms with the deaths of several loved ones: her mother Becky some years ago, her husband Phil in the war, and her father.
This was just not my thing. While parts of the writing was good and the main two characters were excellent, it just threw too much my way and I started to get pointlessly confused as a reader. I didn't hate or like this. I thought it to be extremely average. I don't recommend it, though. I am giving this one a 2.5 out of 5 stars.
Simples, e personagens com densidade e vívidas.
Velvety Cloak of Words, Richly Patterned and Stitched with GoldA story of an adult daughter's (Laurel*) struggle with the death of her father, after already having lost her husband and her mother.
She recalls her mom and dad reading parts of books to each other: “She was sent to sleep under a velvety cloak of words, richly patterned and stitched with gold, straight out of a fairy tale, while they went reading on into her dreams.”  It is a story of the people and things we recall upon the death of a parent, the loss of that part of your life, the rooms, the stories, and the attempt to hold onto what others see as the smaller things.
Nothing much happens beyond this, but through conversation, and Laurel's silent observations, Welty draws a delightful picture of Southern nuances - the difference between Mississippi folk and Texans; the proper way to grieve a death (Laurel's) and the improper way (Fay's); the importance of position, and a willingness to forgive an error in judgment, but not a lack of manners.Laurel is alone in the world, having lost her mother, her husband, and now her father.
Wow, what a treat. This is a fabulous audiobook that was read by the author. I'm not sure why this book isn't rated higher by readers. I really enjoyed this one. It is more character driven than plot driven.
Beautifully written, as I always heard about Welty (I've never read anything by her before). Laurel's father dies and his new wife, Wanda Fay, is younger than Laurel (they are both in their forties). Oh yeah, this did win the Pulitzer Prize for fiction in the early 1970s.
The main character Laurel faces dilemmas and competing loyalties after the death of her father, as she reflects on the deaths of her mother and husband before him.
Laurel's husband's name was Hand, and the no-account handyman who is unable to chase the dirty chimney swift out of the house is named Cheek, though the maid, Missouri, is more successful.
There is much dark comedy surrounding the funeral and Laurel's father's second wife Faye, who believes she represents the future and has cut all ties with her past (the family from Texas who shows up to the funeral).
Frases daquelas que lemos e voltamos atrás para reler uma, duas, três vezes.O tema sobre o qual se debruça é dos mais delicados, perturbantes e emotivos pelo qual qualquer ser humano tem de sobreviver - a passagem de um ente querido.Então porquê as 2 estrelas?Eudora Welty.
Oca.E penso que uma leitura com tão belas frases, sobre um tema tão Humano, não deveria ser assim.“Quando Laurel era criança, neste quarto e nesta cama onde se encontrava agora, fechava os olhos assim e o rítmico som nocturno das vozes dos dois entes queridos, a lerem alternadamente, subia as escadas para ir ter com ela.
First, I think Eudora Welty is a great writer.
The way she uses language, and the way she constructs her sentences are just beautiful.
There are parts of this book where the prose is just lovely.
So, I feel like we should be "speaking" the same language in many ways.
I can see many can get a lot out of this book.
The parts of the book that reflect on Laurel's grief and how she process it are very good.
And, maybe it is just me because I expected a lot.
It is a Pulitzer novel, and I know what Eudora Welty is capable of.
The Optimist's Daughter is a subtle, old-fashioned novel set in the South that explores social class, death, and values through the conflict between the middle-aged, widowed, well-bred daughter of a judge, Laurel, and her ignorant, red necked, younger stepmother, Fay. Once the judge dies under questionable circumstances, the old world - Laurel and her bridesmaids - try to fend off the encroaching new one - Fay, and her hayseed relatives.
As Eudora Welty so beautifully puts it, "Memory returned like spring..." And, both Laurel and Fay need to deal with it.Perhaps this eloquent novel would have grabbed me emotionally if I had read it when it was originally published in the 70s.
3.5 stars.
