https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3559.From_Beirut_to_Jerusalem
If you're sick and tired of what a pedantic wind-bag Thomas Friedman has become since his stupid 'lexus & olive-tree' epiphany, take a trip back to when he was less pedantic, less wind-baggish, and could make a point without the use of a dozen unnecessary, self-aggrandizing anecdotes.From Beirut to Jerusalem is entertaining, well-written, poignant, and a great primer to middle-eastern/Israeli-Palestinian affairs. The Beirut section of the book is a bit better than the Jerusalem section (I get the feeling he had different editors for each), but overall it remains indispensable reading.
What the reviewer doesn’t know is what it’s like to have it taken away – a defining experience to which both Israelis and Palestinians lay claim.This is but one of many divides between American culture and what’s going on in the Middle East, which is why Americans may never truly understand what’s happening there.
I admit that my feelings toward Israel as a Zionistic Jew currently living here in Israel tend to be emotional and irrational, and I’m aware that it was with no small measure of hypersensitivity and defensiveness that I read Friedman’s criticisms of Israeli behavior.
It was an Israeli friend who told me that if I wanted to understand today's Middle East, I should read this book.
He’d then spend almost four years as the Jerusalem Bureau Chief for the New York Times.I’ve read criticisms of Friedman’s style as risible, with mixed metaphors and outlandish analogies.
Maybe it’s that his stylistic tics, as some reviewers suggest, increased over time and the Beirut portions were based on material written earlier.
He certainly took to task not just Arabs, but the Israelis and the Americans for a generous share of the blame.
Thought he was a pretty interesting guy even if I didn’t subscribe to his politics.
I decided to go back to his first book From Beirut to Jerusalem to see how he got his start.
The book does not travel the span of time well.I give props to Friedman, he has some cojones going to report on the Lebanese civil war as his first big assignment.
His treatment of Lebanese society seemed like caricatures.He moves to Jerusalem and reports on Israel.
The book does give a more nuanced view of the society with its warring factions over how to deal with the West Bank and Gaza.
Knowing nothing or Friedman I found it interesting that I was ridiculed for having this book in hand.
Knowing nothing of these conflicts, I appreciated his presentation of their development and, especially, America's involvement.By the time Friedman, and the book, move on to Jerusalem, my interest slowly slipped away.
But, here's what I got out of it.Unlike Beirut, Friedman presents little fact based history on the development of the Israeli State.
I cannot fathom how, or why, as a highly revered journalist, he can get away with the hypothetical speeches he has imagined Prime Ministers deliver at the end of the book.
Sống động, tràn đầy thông tin, độ chân thực thì chưa rõ, nhưng đọc rất hấp dẫn!
4.5/5 The first half of the book deals with the Civil War in Lebanon.
Half-a-dozen tribes/sects and each of them in war with every1 else and the neighbours getting involved to burn their hands.
Finally, understood what it was about.The second half is on the Israel-Palestine conflict.
Again the author discusses Zionism, the various sections of the Israeli society, the roots of the conflict,the intifada, its media coverage in the West and the relations between America and Israel in some depth.
And 3 5-star ratings out of the 4 books that I have read by him.
احتمالا بهترین کتابی است که درباره مناقشه فلسطین- اسرائیل و ایضا جنگ داخلی لبنان خوانده ام. شفاف، دقیق، روشن کننده و از متن حوادثکتاب سه بخش دارد. بیروت. قدس و واشنگتن.بخش بیروت را بدون زمین گذاشتن خواندم. چون اصلا نمیشد زمین گذاشت. بخش قدس (اسرائیل) را با فاصله و به تفاریق. ولی بخش واشنگتن را اصلا نخواندم. گمانم در دو بخش به استغنا رسیدم.
احتمالا بهترین کتابی است که درباره مناقشه فلسطین- اسرائیل و ایضا جنگ داخلی لبنان خوانده ام. شفاف، دقیق، روشن کننده و از متن حوادثکتاب سه بخش دارد. بیروت. قدس و واشنگتن.بخش بیروت را بدون زمین گذاشتن خواندم. چون اصلا نمی‌شد زمین گذاشت. بخش قدس (اسرائیل) را با فاصله و به تفاریق. ولی بخش واشنگتن را اصلا نخواندم. گمانم در دو بخش به استغنا رسیدم.
A one sided extremely biased book. Mr. Friedman! You could have done a much better job had you relayed the views of both conflicting parties of the Lebanese war. Blaming all the miseries on one side only while picturing the other side as the innocent victim only accentuates your incomprehension of the reasons that led to the war, or maybe reflects the result of an 'inflated pocket'!!!
A very insightful book that tells the story of two different cultures at odds, not just with one another, but with themselves.
He draws parallels between these two disparate societies by focusing on each one's search for identity.
Nhưng là "đa tộc" thay cho "tam quốc" và "xung đột lợi ích" thay cho "diễn nghĩa".Sau khi được NYT thiên chuyển đến Jerusalem, Friedman đã dành 5 năm tiếp theo cuộc cuộc đời để tìm hiểu và sống cuộc sống của một người Do Thái, trên một đất nước Do Thái, vô cùng đa sắc và nhiều biến cố.
Thomas Friedman là một nhà báo, và ông đã hoàn thành những nhiệm vụ của mình: nói sự thật và chỉ sự thật (không chèn cảm xúc cá nhân).Một cuấn sách có nhiều giá trị về nhiều mặt.
I am woefully ignorant of most of the conflicts in the Middle East, and even though the information in this book is pretty dated, it offers a useful window into the dynamics in Lebanon and Israel. Friedman writes with restraint and insight, and has some truly great pieces of analysis, like the chapter on Israel and Jewish identity. Now if he could only stop indulging his analogy fetish. Which one is it, Tom? Is the Middle East like an ice cream cone, or is it like The Great Gatsby? Make up your mind!
I'm not a huge fan of Friedman lately, but this book is great. I thought the section on Beirut to be more autobiographical in terms of relating directly to his experience as a journalist there. Meanwhile, the Jerusalem section seemed more broad. I can't help but wonder (I'm sure I can read his NY Times column if I wanted to find out)how he views events since- post- assasination of Rabin, premiership of Netanyahu, second intifada. At any rate, this is a must read for anyone interested in that area of the world.
I started reading this once before, then had it stolen by Mike Silverburg...bastad! Reacquired at Borders, 2008-04-08Well, I very much disliked The World is Flat, but this was pretty awesome. Not at all a history, per say (although you'll get a good glimpse of the 80's era, especially the Beirut troubles and the Arafat era prior to the first intifada), but a pretty solid memoir of a fascinating time and place.
I can understand why the Middle East is the way it is now. Friedman was boots on the ground in both Beirut and Jerusalem in the 1980s as a reporter for the New York Times. An excellent writer, he keeps you engaged and draws thought-provoking analogies and conclusions throughout the book. I'd highly recommend it to anyone interested in the region.
This is a great book. I like the writing style and I learned a lot. Friedman is extremely well-informed and his first-hand experiences are truly interesting. Just be aware that it covers a limited period of time, and is very much an exposition of Friedman's own perspective.
This is his only good book. It's a good account of the middle east at the time that he was staioned in Beirut and the writing quality is far better than his current books. It's a great primer if you need middle east politics background
it's easy to laugh at friedman: 'he's an intellectual lightweight', 'he's a diehard optimist', blahblahblah... put simply: this is always my first recommendation for anyone curious to read about the middle east. that's because it's fucking great. should be required reading.
This was required reading for one of my undergrad poli sci classes, and it's very good. Anyone who's interested in learning more about the history of the Israeli/Palestinian conflict should read it.
If you switch out "Beirut" for "Damascus", most of the stories would still apply. The sentence I liked the most was "Arabs constantly live under an IBM protocol: Inshallah, Bokra, Ma3lesh"

A book with great humanitarian value.
His formulas suggest that everyone should try for limits and realism, except, of course, Friedman himself.His book would have been more interesting had his account of himself included some narrative of how he achieved such awesome powers, or of how being a reporter for the Times in the Middle East elevates one to institutional status, or of how the selection of what’s fit to print (for example, Friedman’s use of the word indiscriminate to describe Israel’s 1982 bombing of Beirut was removed by then Times editor A.
This is one of the only times in the book he discusses the effect of the conflict on Israelis; the rest describes Israeli actions against Palestinians.- He describes the first Palestinian intifada as “non-lethal civil disobedience” despite the fact that this conflict killed 160 Israelis and over 1500 Palestinians, while implying general support for its goals.It is worth pointing out that although Friedman is highly critical of the Israelis, his proposal for a solution implies that Palestinians undertake virtually all the initiatives, and until they do, he does not blame Israelis for their skepticism of any peace deal.
I believe this to be accurate.In general, this book provides an informative account of the formation of the PLO and some of the reasons for the anti-Israel attitudes among Palestinians, as well as an interesting solution.
I have mixed feelings about Friedman as a columnist, but this book is built on his time as a journalist in the region - first as a reporter in Beirut, then later as bureau chief in both Beirut and Jerusalem.
I found myself, throughout the second half of the book, waiting for Friedman to put the higher-level analysis on hold to give a quick narrative of the events - which never really quite came.
The book is split in two parts, first one explains the horrors faced by Beirut and second one talks about an alarming situation in Jerusalem.
If you are interested in knowing details on why these two sides are fighting, this book gives a fairly decent explanation.Friedman, who is a Jew, should be commended for his objective analysis.
It becomes very apparent in the second part, the part that talks about Israel, that he is more concerned about only one side of the conflict.Fortunately, many of use have our homelands.
He was in Beirut during the Lebanese civil war and the Israeli invasion, intended to drive out Arafat and the PLO, and moved on to Jerusalem in time for the first intifada, beginning in 1987.
He lived in Beirut while there and although he conducted interviews with leaders and individuals from all the different factions, this portion of the book seemed to include more personal observations and, as another reviewer noted, fewer analogies.
But when he got to the portion of the book when he was living in Jerusalem there seems to be more emphasis on the philosophies of various groups.
bombs killing children are nothing like stolen china), political infighting as quaking fault lines (not so much tenuous as unimaginative), and opposing groups unable to compromise (e.g. Palestinians and Israelis) as a couple lying about wanting to get pregnant (??) (unfortunately this - there's really no other word: weird - simile comes at the end of the book, leaving an undesirable aftertaste in this reader's mouth despite the book's many high points).I also just personally felt awkward reading a very reporter-esque transcription of certain events coupled with Friedman's own biases, and this might simply be a response inherent in the experience of a Jew reading a Jew criticizing the Jewish homeland.
The first half of the book is a riveting account of Friedman's stay in Beirut between 1979 - 1984 as a journalist for the New York Times.
I would recommend this book to anyone just for the Beirut half.
It contained more speculation than real experience, if you compare it to the Beirut half.
It compared the Israeli Jews' perspective of America and America's perspective of Israel.
It examined the media coverage of the Palestinian-Jew conflict and tried to get at what the real story was and is.
This is a really eye-opening book, especially for someone of my generation.
So, Friedman provides a thoughtful, insightful analysis of the Middle Eastern problem.
He gives a lot of background and makes it interesting by including his own personal experiences with terrorist bombing and hijackings.
His personal knowledge of events really shines through.
The discerning reader will notice that Friedman is a lot sharper and more on-point in his analysis of the issues in Beirut.
When it comes to analyzing Israel, especially the culture, it seems as if he relies less on facts and more on generalizations.
