https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28390369-swing-time
Both authors throw in some perfect characterization and wonderfully-written scenes, but the two lengthy books each left me feeling like "is that it?"Swing Time constantly jumps between different times and places, making it honestly quite difficult to stay invested in any of the wandering roads it takes.
Maybe it was because we were never encouraged to warm to her that the novel felt so aloof and intellectual - delivering its interesting concepts without any pull or life to them.On the more positive side, I liked how the author explored the ways rich people throw money at causes with little thought to if and how it helps.
this is a three and a half star that i am unapologetically rounding up to four.is it zadie smith's best book?far from it.a great book is like an egg - it is round and firm and full of burning life-bits held in place by a narrative design both delicate and strong enough to sustain its beating heart.but this book, if you will permit the metaphor, is an egg slightly scrambled.
and for me, that's not a dealbreaker, because zadie smith's writing is strong enough that i'm truly a reader captivated.
in a book where race is such a focus, it's fitting that the biracial narrator comes across as tonally beige.
It started promising enough, our narrator and her friend Tracy, two brown girls dream about being dancers.
Tracy is the one with dance talent and her acceptance into a dance school with serve to start the separation of our two friends.Forward to the future, our narrator is an assistant to popular dancer/singer, maybe a Brittany Spears type of entertainer who wants to build a girl's school in West Africa.
It is hard to overcome the fact that a secondary character, Tracy is so much more interesting, that the parts that include her pulled me in, while the other characters just seem wooden.Cultural identity is explored, old movies, dance but not as much as the title of the book leads us to believe.
As is usually the case with Zadie Smith the finest attributes of this novel all centre on her remarkable gift for identifying the changing nature of social and cultural guidelines.
She’s a modern day Nick Carraway – except Fitzgerald used the brilliantly self-effacing Nick to tell the bigger story of Gatsby while Smith’s narrator is way more egotistical and often puts the focus on herself rather than on the more compelling characters around her.
The narrator herself is emotionally inarticulate throughout the novel but only realises it on the last page.
Nope .
. .• Drags on .
. .• Disjointed and confusing plot• One-dimensional characters• Randomly preachy (and not in a way that made me think)• Bizarre and gratuitous sex stuff (I don’t mind sex at all in books if it advances the plot or even if it is part of a cheesy romance and is there to titillate the reader.
In this book, it is just weird)• Not very clearly delineated time jumps• Events that don’t really make a lot of sense• Lack of resolution• I wa
. .•	Disjointed and confusing plot•	One-dimensional characters•	Randomly preachy (and not in a way that made me think)•	Bizarre and gratuitous sex stuff (I don’t mind sex at all in books if it advances the plot or even if it is part of a cheesy romance and is there to titillate the reader.
In this book, it is just weird)•	Not very clearly delineated time jumps•	Events that don’t really make a lot of sense•	Lack of resolution•	I wanted to DNF this about ten times.
I usually never have a desire to DNF, even when I don’t like a book.
So, that speaks volumes!I can see that some like this book, and that is great.
I am not sure how this review will turn out because of my astonishment.
I should know by now that Zadie (in my mind we are on a first name basis) will deliver a piece of literature that will tantalize, satisfy, teach and also help me reflect on both my inner and outer world.
She KNOWS the world in ways most of us don't.
Zadie does not stop there though, she hints and cajoles us into becoming familiar if not comfortable with Universal Truths and that with increased awareness and respect we can impact the world around us.Zadie is a sorceress as in this novel she accomplished profundities not by stylized writing or eccentric conversations or unconventional prose.
What Smith gets very right in the book is the way relationships between characters are based upon their relative power; the way superstar Aimee is a vortex around which all other lives are determined; the power of language, what is said, or how and when speech is withheld; the removal of agency or belonging when all those around you are speaking another language, literal or metaphorical.
It's an imbalance that illuminates the overarching idea of the novel.At times the novel meanders too far from its core themes, though perhaps it was a reflection of the main character getting lost in her life as much as the story being lost in itself.
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend.
As other reviewers have already noted, the parts with Aimee, the pop star, and the visits to Africa are by far not as interesting as her life before - and especially Tracey's life.
I enjoyed Tracey as a character and would have loved for her to be at the centre of the book (especially because the description made it sound like she would be).
The confusion of identities is not challenged for years, during which time the handmaiden begins to observe cracks in the world she sought to manage.She is nameless, the narrator.
The thing she does do so beautifully is poke a mixed London heritage and point to those little moments we recognize: anguish over unequal opportunity disguised as childish jealousy (Tracey); admiration for someone's ability to draw people into their orbit with generosity and joy (Hiwot in West Africa, her mother in London); how to be just who you are without designators like age or race or education or accomplishments (her father, James & Darryl in NYC).
This book certainly doesn't lack ambition, it is always readable and entertaining and parts of it are excellent, but once again I was left feeling this is not the great work that such a talented writer should be capable of, and for me none of her subsequent novels have matched her debut White Teeth.To start with the positives - I really enjoyed the first part in which the unnamed narrator describes her childhood friendship with Tracey.
They meet in a dance class and share a love of old musicals, Tracey is the more talented dancer but without the narrator she lacks direction and struggles to escape her broken family and her largely absent criminal father.
Everyone/everything/everywhere gets stripped naked of sentimentality and tossed into the fire of truth!Wait -- the annoying Australian Madonna-ish character was barely singed, and the U.S. way she was rendered made me wonder whether the author believes that North Americans are superior to people from other countries.
Was it that ‘life sucks and then you die’ or that some people really really need anti-depressants or that pursuit of goodness is a waste of time or that neither can we control our destinies nor can anyone help us?Four stars for enough educational and excellent writing to make me grateful that I read this, yet there was potential for much more.
I've come to the conclusion that I might just not be intelligent enough for her books.This has that quality you see when you look at fine art and think, "I understand it's special and important, but I just don't fully understand it." And that's fine.
I can read a story like this—one with really natural writing with characters that are well developed, but maybe with a plot that just loses you and themes that are obviously there and getting at something that you don't quite comprehend—and just not 'get it.' At least, I'm okay with that because Smith is a really good writer; I can see that.
Zadie Smith’s narrator in ‘Swing Time’ attempts to hold this fleeting, substantial thing in her hand and poke it for its secrets over a good 35-40 years.This is a story primarily about a brown girl in London, whose life arcs diverse places, people and emotions, keeping, somehow, another brown girl, Tracey, at its epicentre.
Perhaps, the superfluity did what the overlapping timelines did not – overshadow the narrator.Despite all, ‘Swing Time’ is a good outing; one that brings some vital air, if not a piece of fresh memory to take back home.[Note: Thanks to Netgalley and Penguin Books (UK) for providing me an ARC.]
It is hard when you really love an author and their book just doesn't really work for you.
The "Aimee" chapters lack the loveliness of the "Tracey" chapters, which may well be purposeful, but as a reader it made for a disconnected experience.
Just when things start getting interesting in the Tracey story, we leave it and never return to it in a satisfying way.One thing I did note is that this novel suffers from the same kind of problem that most novels have when their narrator is less interesting than the other main characters.
The "Aimee" chapters in particular suffer from this, the "Tracey" chapters early on are much more successful.
B.) Novels with racial dynamics at their core (particularly those written from a black perspective about the white world around them) certainly pique my interest, but my inability to put myself completely in a black person's shoes (be it a mixed-race 'estate'-girl from London like  Swing Time, a Nigerian woman émigré to the US in Americanah, or a girl grappling with Deep South prejudice, poverty, and Hurricane Katrina in Salvage the Bones) makes me a terrible arbiter of such works.
Dig the message!' - 'Swing' from Bernstein's Wonderful TownPossibly Zadie Smith's most divisive novel to date, Swing Time is a tale of two brown girls, both dancers, dreaming of being the Ginger to someone's Fred.
The sections of the novel dealing with our narrator's relationship with Tracey are by far its saving grace.
Never a chore to read (unlike other sections) everything is so naturalistic between them and Smith writes this relationship with such intimate detail that at times one forgets that this novel is fiction.
Swing Time is a minor novel in Smith's oeuvre.
And just like The Autograph Man, I think Swing Time is more a Smith novel for Smith fans.

Unfortunately - the books that fall flat are always a little easier to talk about....I'd rather be disappointed with myself than with anything Zadie-related, but after reading a bunch of GR reviews, I had to admit that I'm among many readers who found this book disappointing for reasons they were able to cogently identify (and with which I fully agree).
Sure, there's dancing going on IN the book: it's a recurring plot device in both the "Tracey/London" and "Aimee/Africa" sections, and as indicated by the book's title, the narrator references significant moments in the history of dance and their racial and cultural implications.
This is a great novel and I think one of the strongest (if not the strongest) of Zadie Smith’s already impressive body of work.The story works on many levels and takes in multifarious themes, which although are generally familiar territory for Zadie Smith, are approached in what feels like a very focussed, new and intelligent way.There is so much in this novel, it is difficult to know where to start, challenging to encapsulate – but in an attempt to try and convey… This is a story of friendship, family, betrayal, ambition, life and death, race and racial politics, power, class and gender; but it is much more than that – questions are suggested concerning – what is success, what is privilege – what is it and what does it actually mean to any of us?
"I saw all my years at once, but they were not piled up on each other, experience after experience, building into something of substance - the opposite. A truth was being revealed to me: that I had always tried to attach myself to the light of other people, that I never had any light of my own. I experienced myself as a kind of shadow." This quote from Zadie Smith's Swing Time is very early in the novel, and for me calls out the difficult choices and construction that led me to give the work a
Her prose is excellent, some of her characters very compelling, and she finds creative ways to explore differences and nuances and make observations on race, class, education, and worldview, with her cast of characters interacting and colliding, speaking and not speaking to reveal these ideas and truths.
With Tracey, we get school and much of the dance and early family dynamics; with Aimee it's adult relationship turmoil and celebrity culture and white (and mixed) do-gooders in Africa; for both Smith's commentary on race and class follow.
But it doesn't stop there, the book also addresses issues of cultural identity, the importance of education, parenting, and a scathing indictment of a lack of cultural awareness and personal growth through the evolution (or lack thereof) and squandered opportunities in the character of the narrator.Smith writes the book in the first person so the reader views the world through the eyes of the nondescript narrator.
It is through the secondary characters and the narrator's perceptions that put meat on the bones of the narrator so to speak.(view spoiler)[The story is of two young girls both bi-racial and both lower middle class (Tracey and the narrator).
The story begins with the childhood friendship between two ‘brown girls’ who forge a strong bond, despite their difference in upbringing and approach to life.
The pop star the narrator works for might conjure up an image or two of real life divas, the mother is a character who leaves a strong and forceful impression on her daughter, and there is no question that Tracey’s friendship has had an impact.
I hope I’ve taken from the book what the author was attempting to express, but for some reason, I find it difficult to articulate what that might be.
*religiously counts the days until November*
Smith’s fifth novel spans 25 years and journeys from London to New York City and West Africa in tracing the different paths two black girls’ lives take.
The narrator (who is never named) and Tracey, both biracial, meet through dance lessons at age seven in 1982 and soon become inseparable.
The narrator alternates chapters about her friendship with Tracey with chapters about her work for pop star Aimee in Africa.
Unfortunately, the Africa material is not very convincing or lively and I was impatient for these sections to finish.
The Aimee subplot and the way Tracey turns out struck me as equally clichéd.
Then the central character ends up working for an aging pop star and her charity work in Africa, and somehow the lessons I felt we were supposed to "learn" there didn't have the punch they could or should have.
But just the same, I find it somehow forgettable.It probably didn't help that I was also reading The Story of a New Name at the same time, also about two girls who were friends and grew into womanhood with different amounts of privilege.
I had no empathy with the characters in Swing Time.
A sweeping multi-layered novel that reads like a dance through childhood into adulthood, across cultures, exploring race, class and gender issues.
She feels barely noticed and out of place until her friendship with Tracey begins.The narrator is unnamed throughout the novel and her childhood friend is Tracey, who is boisterous, adventurous, fun loving and narcissistic.
Tracey is a brilliantly talented dancer and though the narrator loves dancing, she lacks Tracey’s talent.
After a few gigs as a dancer, Tracey’s dancing career fades and she is a single mother to three children all by different fathers and is still living in the public housing estates, a fate the narrator’s mother warned against.
While reading "Swing Time" - my first novel by Zadie Smith - I felt conflicted.
Some parts of it I loved and I could really appreciate the beauty of the characters' story and the writing.
Other parts felt dragging to me, and while they were not unimportant they didn't get the attention from me that they maybe needed.
I liked how it deals with so many diverse topics, but at the same time I felt rootless throughout - where was this going and how was I feeling about it?
All in all, I definitely see why Zadie Smith is a well-loved author because she definitely has talent.
And I found more than enough of them to keep me reading through some 450+ pages.Perhaps I’m coming off too much as an apologist—and I fully admit to being a Zadie Smith fanboy—but I’m also instinctually sympathetic to what I sense is the overall project.
No, Swing Time is not a masterpiece, but it feels quite obvious to me that Smith is moving toward one—like the dancers she celebrates through the novel Smith is feeling out prose rhythms, stretching stylistic muscle, undergoing the hard work necessary to scale the dizzying heights of the extraordinary (one need only recall, say, the multi-volume process implied between the raw talent of Virginia Woolf’s The Voyage Out and the indisputable mastery of Mrs. Dalloway and after; I suspect Smith is on a similar trajectory).And I get it—not everyone particularly wants to see what goes on behind the curtains and between the acts.
I really enjoyed this book. It had a lot of themes throughout and looked at friendships, parent-child roles, economic and racial issues. It was just a good book from start to finish. Not disappointed
