https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/177250.The_Mirror_of_Her_Dreams
Main character too frustrating and not entirely credibleI was disappointed and even slightly disgusted by "The Mirror of Her Dreams" and its sequel, "A Man Rides Through."SPOILER ALERT!
I don't give away the end or even the middle, but still a bit of a SPOILER...My biggest complaint was that this was too obviously a middle-aged male author's botched attempt at portraying a young female protagonist (Terisa).
I felt like I was reading the thinly-disguised and slightly perverted fantasies of a middle-age man who wants to pretend that teenage virgins still desire him.I realize many of you will mark me as unhelpful for that.
Unlike his Thomas Covenant, this duology is one of my favorites. I really love the characters, and the story is really interesting and well-told.
I also felt the characters physical actions were over exaggerated and animated, kind of like comparing old silent film acting to modern day acting.To be honest, I wonder if I would love it as much if it was my first time reading it, and if my enjoyment is based on my fond memories of reading this book back in '93 or if it is because I know the outcome.
(Still a virgin by the end of this book)In book 2 confirmed her first only and last time is with the heroCheating- Terisa is drawn to Eremis and not Geridan at first.
In a word: Boring. Prolix.In two words: glacial plotting. Unsympathetic characters.In five words: Pathetic, colorless, wimpy uninteresting heroine. I'm 1/3 of the way through listening to this (9 hours or so!!) and I'm thinking of quitting. Maybe I'll read it so I can skim. God he's wordy and keeps saying the same thing over and over and over again (maybe I don't exist, my father didn't love me). Boohoo. Hullo? We get it!!Mostly, I want to slap the heroine. And the king. Or kill them both so the story would be over.
This might be frustrating or boring to some readers as so much of the book is focused on world building, politics and heavy descriptions but I really love watching Terisa come alive.
The more Terisa learns about the world of Mordant and it's people, the more real it becomes for her- and herself along with it.
She isn't the typical kind of main character so this book series won't be for everyone but if you like heavy plot lines, complex worlds, politics and slow building tension- then give this one a try.
Terisa Morgan is a rich girl living in a high-rise in NYC when a handsome young man from an alternate reality stumbles into her apartment through one of her mirrors.
Imagers with particular talents are able to cast auguries, creating mirrors with small images that can foretell the future.
These images are small, appearing only after the original mirror has been broken into bits (it's intentional; the mirror was created specifically for the augury).
Geraden, the handsome young man who "accidentally" found Terisa in her apartment, figures strongly in one of the auguries cast.
One of the most problematic reads I have ever picked up. It ended up in my trash can. Never. Again.
The blurb on the back intrigued me so I checked it out.I loved this book!
I think I kept looking in my bathroom mirror after I read this, just hoping I'd catch a glimpse of another world.
This is awful!!"So I explained "How do you think I felt, when I had to actually wait for the book at the library?" I was nice and loaned him the second.Fond memories thinking of this story.
I actually haven't re-read it.
I think I prefer my memories of coming home from work, curling up on the easy chair in the living room and reading this.
This is one of my favourite two-part series, which is interesting because the main character is not really that likeable of a person.
That being said, it makes sense that she is these things because of the way she was raised and for some reason, it made me want to see her come into her own.I think it's the universe that is the most interesting to me.
That there might be another place on the other side of the mirror is fascinating to me and I enjoyed how they showed the use of mirrors in Mordent.The characters are not always likeable, but they're not suppose to be.
I chose this book because the author was said to have redefined the Fantasy genre ...
and since I write fantasies, I thought it a good idea to check this one out.
While the world was compelling and the plot was interesting, I could not get over my dislike for the main character.
Teresa was weird at first, and her sense of detachment to the world was a little sympathetic -- but I stress "at first." As the plot continued forward, I grew to hate her.
My enjoyment of Gerarden could not balance out this hatred, so I have to give the book two stars.
In the land of Mordant, mirrors are magical things that are meticulously crafted by Imagers to see other places within their own realm as well as into parallel worlds.
Also we're given the sense that Terisa and Geraden are going to play a big role in saving Mordant, but what and how that might be is a mystery, as both of them seem like the most unlikely of saviors.
That's why, when the Congery needed someone to step through a mirror and bring back their augured Champion, Geraden was the one chosen for his expendability.
One of my favorite fantasies. The protagonist is passive and unsure of herself, but that just makes the political intrigue of the world she's taken to that more intricate and fascinating. I love books with twisty political mysteries, and this one is full of them.
Subtle is a good description of this book.
It has an almost Alice in Wonderland quality, with more time spent being lost in the main character's confusion than lost in the unfamiliar customs and creatures of an alternate world.
Although complex, and at times bogged down with its own intricate details, this book was very well-crafted.
Subtle but terrifying.
In my opinion, it takes good writing to really make a reader detest a character, so in this the author has proven his skill.
The characters are all well-developed, unique, and interesting.
Overall, a very, very original and entertaining story.Onto the conclusion and book two.
I got so far through this book....
One of Terisa's actions that was pretty much the breaking point for me was her attraction(if that's the word for it) for an annoying rude middle aged man.
Yes okay, whatever, I mean it's not like there is this cute and adorable young man about your age who is practically in love with you hanging around.
If don't know what love is, please don't try to find it with a middle aged man!
Once I get through about 50% of the book I usually try to finish, but this is just not one of those cases.
As always, the main requirement of crisp well-defined characters has been met.
The storyline is unique (to me) and I totally relate to the main character, which as I have read in other reviews totally irritates many of the other readers...
explains alot on other peoples irritation for me through the years (I guess).
(I also relate to her counterpart lead character) But yet I totally understand the feeling of invisibility...
And I devour how the characters overcome these limitations or learn to accept them as not a limitation as defined by others.
Really enjoyed this.
Is she there by accident or is she really their saviour ??
Aided by the accident prone apprentice Geraden the heroine battles all the intrigues of Court, the assassins sent to silence her, the smooth talking rogue Eremis and tries to fathom why the brilliant King sits idly by whilst the kingdom falls to ruin.
Superb magic concepts with mirrors and imagery, sword play, sieges, wild beasts, man eating bugs, romance and lots of political intrigue - yep this was excellent.
This 2 book story is my favorite fantasy novel of all time. I reread it every couple of years. While it's obviously well written, because Donaldson never puts out a book that isn't, I think it's the core of each character that moves me the most. Each recognizes their imperfections, doubts their strength, but just keeps moving forward and accomplishing more than they thought possible. And while recognizing their own weaknesses, they also recognize the strengths in each other and band together to build an "us" that is far greater than the sum of each "me."
It's been a while since I read this book.
Stephen Donaldson has a way of creating thoroughly dislikeable lead characters.
This book is much the same in that regard as Terisa's self-involved ignorance gave me, to put it crudely, the shits.
The fantasy world was interesting, though, as was the way in which magic functioned.
And, though I spent a good amount of the first book just wishing Terisa dead so that we could actually concentrate on the story and on Gerarden without her incessant idiocy getting in the way, I did want to continue reading it and read the concluding book.
I'm not too sure, and I don't really want to analyze it.
Where DOES the time go?), and it's just come to my attention that perhaps I need to replace them, as they are no longer in top condition, but very, very well read - even though I treat my books as I should.Sigh.
Love them, want more.EDITED: I've just realised, that I bought them two years after the birth of my daughter, when they first came out.
So, make that THREE decades (now I'm really depressed, hmmm, perhaps I need to read this series again...).

My god this book draaaaags.
It is an interesting story about a girl who ends up in another world and has to deal with that world and all of its intrigue but boy does it need a good editor.
It isn't that he goes into too much detail about the world.
The problem is that there is so much detail about every little decision that the main character makes.
Actually, a different heroine would be good too.
She is just so dense you want to scream at the book.
How much sex are you going to almost have?"There are better books out there, good idea notwithstanding.
And again, I don't like this subplot, it wasn't necessary and there were many other ways in which Donaldson could have achieved the same effect without utilizing sexual violence, but I can appreciate how it ties into Terisa's growth.Geraden, btw, the dude hero, is WONDERFUL, like, he is a total beta man, he's repeatedly described as being puppyish - eager and kind and thoughtful - and while he totally loves Terisa, like, a LOT, like from first sight, dude is totally like Aladdin spotting Jasmine in the marketplace all WOW [sighs wistfully], he never once forces his feelings on her.
Now, I’m confronted with Terisa Morgan, possibly the dullest, most slow witted, whiniest protagonist that I have ever encountered in science fiction and fantasy.
How did she actually summon the energy to step through the mirror into the world of Mordant?Despite supposedly being the lynchpin on which the future of Mordant rests, she continues to whine and lollygag around, denying that she could possibly be of any importance and rarely using her brain to think about things.
But I want to know who done what, so I will read the second book and thank my lucky stars that there are only two of them, unlike the seemingly endless Thomas Covenant series.Book 219 of my science fiction & fantasy reading project.
Halfway into it, I was prepared to throw it away.
But, I didn't throw it away.
Instead, I skipped all the way to the end, and found out that this character, Terisa Morgan, doesn't get any better.
She stays almost as weak and stupid as she was at the start of the novel, only mildly showing some intelligence at the very very very end of the book.
For a person who likes strong women characters, or at least female characters who may start out weak, but who at least emerge stronger a lot earlier in the the book, I really really hated this character.
This book--which I first read back in junior high or high school--fit the bill perfectly.
It's a fat, fluffy, fantasy novel and you know it's all going to come right in the end.
I'm not going to complain about Terisa's passivity; he made a good case for why she is the way she is, and I'm fine with that.
Maybe it was OK to mention once, as a comment on their various strengths, but to harp on it just got old.Though it's a thick book, it's best read quickly.
It's best not to think too deeply about it; then you're able to just enjoy the escapist fantasy of it all.
I know the author wanted to show the reader the progression of a timid girl into a strong, fierce woman, but the protagonist started out so insipid and cowardly, she irritated me constantly.
He also has a low regard for his readers' ability to figure anything out, so everything is explained in excruciating detail.
Also, I was very aware of a male author writing a female character--or what he thinks a female character would be like.
I don't want to leave on a negative note, because the author did have some intriguing ideas that he implemented well.
I really enjoyed the feel the prologue gave to the whole book.
Several of the characters were week and frustrating, but the teased curse in the prologue made it excusable.This was a book club book and I didn't do my due diligence to realize before the last 20 pages this was a duology, which gave out a very sudden and unsatisfying ending.
After I read the 2nd book I may come back a chance my star rating.
Up if it wraps up many of the mysteries the 1st book has me invested in our down if it doesn't pay off I the end.
The best kinds of books—like the best kinds of teas—are the ones able to be savored over and over again, without losing their magic. "The Mirror of her Dreams" is this kind of book for me. Just like St. Paul's London Breakfast Tea, my BookTasting companion to Donaldson's novel. Together, it's poetry in notion. Find the full review here: http://www.graspingforthewind.com/201...
I keep reading Donaldson's books, hoping he will eventually write a "protagonist" character I don't hate. I mean, really hate. There's no doubt Donaldson is a good author; no other writer in my memory has ever made me hate their characters like Donaldson does. This book is no different; as others have mentioned, the primary starts out so weak, so spineless and cowardly, I can generate zero empathy for her. It's true genius how Donaldson keeps writing about such winning personalities over all these years...
