https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/318404.Drums_Girls_Dangerous_Pie
glad i finally picked this one up! it was really touching. i do think i prefer the sequel that i accidentally read before reading this book. XD there were just a few lines that bothered me and i had a hard time liking the main character (though he won me over in the end). and let me just say that the ending of the story had me so emo.
The Girls are Renee Albert, the hot cheerleader and neighbor who Steven wishes would notice he was alive, and Annette Watson, a pianist and friend of Steven’s who occasionally watches his younger brother Jeffrey on weekends.
His younger brother is a little terror, his parents are annoying, he hates math, and he has a crush on the hottest girl in school.
When Jeffrey has a nosebleed that doesn’t want to stop, Steven’s life is suddenly turned upside down when he learns his little brother has leukemia.
Hah, even my son read faster than me :D What a wonderful book it is, we laughed from the jokes, were teary in some moments and of course, we were charmed by the main character.
The main reason my son and I loved this book, is that it's about a 13 years old boy, who has life struggle.
My son is 13 and it was a fun read for him as some situations from the book reminded him about his ordinary day at school.
Little brothers can be pretty annoying.
I should know, being a little brother myself.
Ask lots of questions, be spontaneously obnoxious and sometimes loud (in order to be heard of course), pop-ups in the middle of the elders all-girl slumber party, tattle once in awhile (sorry sis), and ask lots of questions (did I say that already?
How could we not want to follow in your footsteps – albeit exasperatedly close behind you?I’m not saying Steven’s little brother Jeffrey is nearly this annoying.
Hidden behind the wall that a big brother erects there lies sibling love.
Big brother: protector, mentor, friend.
That little wall is removed by the unfortunate news of cancer.

13-year-old Steve Alpers is obsessed with drums: he’s good enough to play with the All-City Middle and High School Band; girls: mainly his best friend, Annette, and “the hottest girl in eighth grade,” Renee; and his annoying 5-year-old little brother, Jeffrey, who is always underfoot and makes messes like the title pie.
(I also liked that I don’t think I’ve ever read a book about a drummer before, so the vocabulary and practice drills were a whole new experience for me.) A note as a USAmerican reader: Part of the story is about fundraising to help pay for the tens of thousands of dollars Steve’s family is running up in medical bills, even with “good” insurance.
for TeensReadToo.com"The most annoying thing in the world is...My little brother, Jeffrey." That's what thirteen-year-old Steven Alper had written in his journal for his English class.
But his brother doesn't seem to be getting any better, and Steven has a hard time concentrating at school, he's not turning in his homework, and his grades are starting to fall behind.
The author's great voice shows real characters with real feelings, and the true struggle of a teenager trying to understand the unfairness of a deadly disease, and how to cope with the fear of losing his beloved little brother.
So you think your little brother is a pest?
অনেক দিন পরে এতত চমতকার একটা মিডল গরেড বই পড়লাম। সতযিই খুব ভালো লেগেছে। সবচেয়ে ইনটেরেসটিং বযাপার হচছে বইটা পড়ার সময় যে পেজে আপনি অনেক জোরে জোরে হাসবেন ঠিক সেই পেজেই পরের পাতায় এমন কিছু কথা লেখা থাকবে আপনার মনে হবে যে দুনিয়া এত খারাপ কেন। আর সতযি কথা বলতে দুই একবার যে আপনা আপনিই আমার চোখ ভিজে উঠেছিল যেন কিভাবে। মহা ঝামেলার বই। :/ গলপটা সটীভের। এইটথ গরেডে পড়ে। ডরামার। আর মেয়েদের আশে পাশে গেলে তার যেন কি হয়ে যায়। তো তাকে যখন একবার জিজঞেস করা হয় যে তার কাছে সবচেয়ে বিরকতিকর লাগে কোন জিনিসটা। সে বলে য
অনেক দিন পরে এত্ত চমতকার একটা মিডল গ্রেড বই পড়লাম। সত্যিই খুব ভালো লেগেছে। সবচেয়ে ইন্টেরেস্টিং ব্যাপ
I recommend this book, it is a really interesting book and it's hard not to read the chapters all at once. At the end there is a big turning point…I'm not going to say what it is because I don't want to spoil the book for everyone else. This book has a lot of important/sad moments, but in my opinion it makes the book x10 better! I can't wait to read after ever after!
An amazing story of what family truly is - giving up what you want and need for the protection of a sibling. When the main characters little brother is diagnosed with a severe form of leukemia cancer, his older brother has to give up his life, career, and enjoyment to keep his brother not only safe, but happy.
Obviously, many of these were related to Jeffrey, the main character's little brother who has leukemia.
But the bond between Steven and Jeffrey was enough to bring me close to tears.
Steven would risk anything for his brother, and I felt their bond really brought the story to life.
Also, the story was super realistic.
I really appreciated how the author didnt try to make Steven a perfect, bubbly teenager.
He made Steven a REAL teenager.
He WASN'T perfect, and this made me feel like I was IN the book.Overall, really liked this book and highly recommend it.
This book makes you happy and sad at the same time by making you fall in love with the characters.
The book describes the life of an ordinary 13 year old boy that loves drumming and has some relationship problems, but his little brother's cancer flips his life upside down.
The theme of the book is love, because in the book, without love from his friends and family, Steven, the main character, wouldn't of survived the whole ordeal with his school work and his little brother's cancer.
I recommend this book to people who enjoy a book with deep meaning but also some romance and humor.
Mr. Sonnenblick aptly captures and conveys the perplexities of a 13-year-old boy---the obvious, an abundant use of “like” in his dialogue, but also the subtle, self-sacrificing inner voice rarely credited to teens.
This outwardly awkward adolescent is more than a pounding prodigy on a drum kit and all-around funny guy; he’s an older brother.Even at a blush, he is kind, tolerant and indulgent with the feisty five-year-old boy who gleefully dismisses his elder sibling’s ‘rules’.
Mr. Sonnenblick wrote this book in 12 short weeks.
Needing to help and knowing that a good book could; he searched for just the right one to share; did not find it.
Originally Posted HERE.DANGEROUS NOVEL PIE!WARNING: This book should not be read in public because it has a tendency to make you laugh and cry at the same time.
One minute you're laughing so hard and then with just one phrase or sentence, ,a tear could possibly fall it could make you sad in an instant.
Sure, I like to give five stars to almost all the graphic novels and superhuman stories that I've read but this one is on a different level.
Every sentence you read out of it would not be a waste of your time.
Make you laugh and cry sad at the same time.
A thirteen year old is, by nature and brain chemistry, somewhat self-absorbed. Crushes, schoolwork, embarrassing parents, annoying siblings are all consuming.This is the story of one selfish thirteen year old kid who is forced to look outside himself by one of the worst circumstances possible, when his little brother is diagnosed with leukemia.It's a tear jerker, and it has its funny moments.
This book is an amazing book. It shows real character when Stevens little brother gets leukemia. Steven and his family go through lots of ups and downs. But they fight through the problems and secede.there are sad parts but also parts were you will smile. This book shows strength in relationships.this is a must read, - Lauren Ellerbusch #11 clymer pd1
Man, books like these are really like a kick in the gut reminding you to be grateful for everything you have in the world.
This was a great quick read. I love the little brother and the story from the boy's perspective. I now have a strange urge to learn to play the drums. What a cool skill to develop. Still not sure I'd ever get my kid a drum kit. =)

*Cross posted on AmyLovesYA.comLet me start by saying that this is the first Jordan Sonnenblick book I've read, It will NOT be the last.
As an eighth grader, Steven thought his biggest worries were drum practice, his crush on Renee Albert, and protecting his stuff from his little brother, but Jeffrey's diagnosis turns the whole family upside down.Sonnenblick, a former eighth grade English teacher, perfectly crafts each family member's reaction to Jeffrey's diagnosis and treatment with heart-breaking clarity sprinkled with bits of relieving humor.
4.5 StarsFamily, love, loyalty, Drums, Girls, & Dangerous Pie! :) I loved it all.A touching, powerful story about how a family struggles to survive through a crisis and scare together. Humor and such sensitivity bring this story to life. A story and voice that went straight to my heart. Through 13 year old Steven Alper’s voice, readers will see and feel just how much a brother’s love can do and mean.Three Big Reasons Why My Heart Loved this Book1. Family LOVE”Now, normally I am not the bigge
:) I loved it all.A touching, powerful story about how a family struggles to survive through a crisis and scare together.
A story and voice that went straight to my heart.
Through 13 year old Steven Alper’s voice, readers will see and feel just how much a brother’s love can do and mean.Three Big Reasons Why My Heart Loved this Book1.
Family LOVE”Now, normally I am not the biggest fan of being hugged by my mother in broad daylight at this point in my adolescent years, but I must say, it felt pretty nice right then.”2.
I like this book because the main character shows a lot of caring and tells me in that no matter what happen I will always be there with you little bro.Ms.zika has chosen the right book for her class to read because it is interesting and it not boring.The things I like is when Jeffery says moatmeal instead of oatmeal and how Steven help raise money for Jeffery's treatment.One thing I didn't like was when Jeffery went to the emergency room.If I was to give this book a rate I would say I liked it,no I LOVE it.
This is an adolescent novel about luekemia, targetted probably to 12-15 year olds.
Despite the subject, it's very funny, with lovely banter between the 8th grade boy, who narrates, and his sick five-year-old brother.
There were difficult passages describing the treatments the boy received in the hospital and the side effects.
It touched on the undesired attention the narrator received as a "tragic figure," which I thought was really important, especially for the targetted age group.
It was a frank book, and I cried through much of it, but I thought it was both good and important.
A few pages into this book I had to laugh because there was a scene which included a sentence that summed up what my daughter was saying, and I found it to be that "real" feel throughout the book.This is not a lighthearted funny and happy ever after read, it's emotional, funny and yet it touches you and doesn't leave you after finishing it.
I won't be super specific but just some personal thoughts but beware I will say a little bit about Jeffrey that is left a mystery in the first part of the book so don't read on if you don't want to know that.
Everything that used to be easy about his self-centered life becomes more difficult when his younger brother, Jeffrey, becomes seriously ill.During most of my time in this novel, I felt irritated at Steven.
His sarcasm is like acid on every page; I grew tired of it.
Some of my friends who read this book thought that his sarcasm was funny, but I did not.
Maybe that is because I grew up in a family with a seriously ill child -- me.
I would not recommend this as book-of-the-year, that's for sure.
I really loved reading this book.
It made me feal really bad, sad during the book.
The book go's through Steven's perspective and tells how he feels all the time.
Weather he is happy or sad, it explains hoe Steven is feeling all the time!
Steven loses his mind, and the only two people at his school that care about him is his friend Annette and crush, Renee.I'd suggest you should check this book out!
Both guys and girls would like to read this book.
to enjoy this book most you should be able to take on a few disturbing things that happen to Jeffery and be able to read saddening books!
This book was an assigned adolescent fiction book for my 11-year-old brother's 6th grade English class.
Now as the 21-year-old sibling, you must be wondering, why would I even entertain the idea of reading this book.
BUT to my surprise I not only did I enjoy reading this book, I even was MOVED.
The reader is able to truly see the world through the eyes of an adolescent boy, without feeling anything was sugarcoated or exaggerated.
So I congratulate Jordan Sonnenblick for being able to tactfully approach the subject of cancer and its afflictions to the teenage household, while keeping the story upbeat and meaningful.
This book was a solid 4 to me until the author's note at the end.
I think this is the first time an author's note has bumped up a book rating for me.
DO NOT SKIP THE AUTHOR'S NOTE AT THE END OF THE BOOK.
I REPEAT, DO NOT SKIP THE AUTHOR'S NOTE AT THE END OF THE BOOK!!!!!
The book was powerful and funny and full of heart.
It really shows how people can make a difference in our lives without even knowing it.
It shows the power of being a teacher, and with that power comes great responsibility.
Steven is a a normal thirteen year old boy who likes to play the drums. He has a crush on the hottest girl in school,and has a little brother named Jeffery. Who Steven thinks is positively annoying, but then Jeffery gets luekemia and is now always upset and kinda lifeless. Unless if he is playing the drums in the all city jazz band,but when his big night comes Jeffery gets sick and seven decides to go to the hospital with him. Read more to find out
This book is so well done. I love Steven, the narrator and his honest confusion and heartbreak he addresses as part of this narrative. It's sweet and selfless and even funny at times. As a mother, I found some of the scenes painfully emotional, yet a young person would empathize differently, I'm sure. Sonnenblick is one of my favorites.
