https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77489.The_Black_Book
As the series progresses this relationship deepens and becomes ever more complex (I know this because of the random order I’ve happened to read these books), and any time these two share the same page the quality of the dialogue goes up a further notch – in my opinion it’s the high point of Rankin’s writing.
For that reason, I’d say it’s not one of the best books in this series.
However, there’s really no such thing as a bad Rebus book and I’d take any instalment above ninety percent of the crime fiction novels out there.
I was rooting around a sale bin in a second hand bookstore & looky looky what I found.
I've been following this series for years but somehow missed this one.
Made my day.
This is an old one & there's only about a kabillion reviews already so I won't bother, I'm sure it's all been said.
But it reminded me of one of the things I love about reading.....when you come across a series that for whatever reason, you become attached to & read just for the pure pleasure of spending time with that character.
Here's hoping Rebus continues to stroll the streets of Edinburgh for years to come.
Nell suspects he had worries on his mind and as Rebus waits with bated breath for the recovery of an unconscious Holmes, he focuses on the fire which destroyed the Central Hotel five years previously that is extensively covered in Holmes "black book" and something more significant than the surveillance operation; that of placing Big Ger at the scene.Added to this Rebus also handles a stabbing in a butchers with the victim unwilling to corroborate any details and the arrival of a convicted sex offender in the locality.
Keeping a close eye on the surveillance operation results, albeit without putting in too much legwork, Rebus stokes these ongoing enquiries all with an eye on the bigger prize of Big Ger. With Holmes in hospital, the officer who works alongside Rebus is female DC Clarke.
Not sure what happened, this started out well. But then either I lost the plot, or storyline went off on a strange tangent. I usually enjoy Rebus books, but not this one. Let's hope the next one is back up to standard.
I've read a number of Rebus books over the years and always enjoyed them.
Rebus is a great character and Rankin is a great writer.
These days I'm picking up odd ones from charity shops from the early days and I've not read a bad one yet.
It's a decent crime read.
I guess I was surprised to find just how well this early one stacked up against both Rankin's later books and work from other current authors.
For me this one stood the test of time far better than many books I've read from other authors written in the intervening period.
I have read several of the Rebus series now and plan to work my way progressively through all of them. This one was particularly good in that Rebus seems to be mostly in control of things, his boss is supporting him and his love life is at a standstill. So much more time is spent on actual police work and solving crimes, always a good thing I think in a crime novel. I found this particular book a great way to spend time on a long plane flight and I look forward to reading the next one soon.
The Black Book by Ian Rankin.The main theme or focus for Rebus is the burning down of the Central Hotel 5 years ago.
The key to solving this mystery is a black book that was in the possession of Brian Holmes.
His head was bashed with something hard that left him concussed and hospitalized.
While visiting Brian in the hospital Nell (Brian's former steady) told him about the black Book and where Brian kept it.
Rebus had no doubt that big Ger Cafferty was behind most if not all of this down to the burning of the Central Hotel and the murder of the body found there.
3.5Expected better from Rankin in this one. It wasn't as noir as the previous booksI'll read the 6th book in the series and see if it's any better It's my least fav Rebus so far
Siobhan Clarke was a new partner for Rebus in this book, working with Rebus on Unsolved Crimes; brother of Rebus gets out of prison and needs place to sleep so he joins the crowd of college students renting from Rebus; Big Ger Cafferty is not at all likable in this earlier book, dramatically changing my view of that character.
His father and his brother had a "falling out" and did not speak thereafter.
"She'd started speaking before Rebus realised she was saying grace.
'Some hae eat and cannae eat, and some hae nane that want it.
An intricately woven, tense noir thriller and the best I have read thus far. Incredible storytelling.
Ian Rankin's The Black Book is the 5th of his Inspector John Rebus series set in Edinburgh; this is the first of his novels I've read.
As the story threads come together, Rebus's personal and professional life become entirely entangled as a key piece of evidence to the old murder lands in his hands.
Rankin shifts between a third person narrative focussed on Rebus to the other characters as they uncover their own motives in the moment and on to richly detailed commentary about life and surroundings in the chief setting of Edinburgh.
He is crusty, crafty and will stoop to conquer any “bad” guys that happen to cross him.In this, the fifth full Rebus mystery novel, we do find out what happens with his current love affair (I was itching to know after the end of book four) and how he treats his fellow workers and friends - er, scratch that last bit.
This is a strong testament to the fully realized character Ian Rankin manages to create in John Rebus.A character which keeps me coming back for more.This novel deals with Rebus getting involved in a case which supposedly died five years ago.
From BBC Radio 4 - Classic Serial:Ian Rankin's maverick detective, Inspector Rebus, investigates an unsolved murder, with the help of a notebook full of coded clues.
4 StarsIn the ongoing saga that is John Rebus's life; he must contend with a 5 year old murder, his ex-con brother returning to town, having a break-up with his girl, and trying to head an undercover sting.... oh yeah, a child molester is on parole and living across the street from a primary school. Aahhhh, a day in the life of John Rebus. Things wrap up nicely, but not neatly. There is always a line to be crossed or a cliff edge to step to with Rebus. Still loving this series.
Διαβάζω τις περιπέτειες του Τζον Ρέμπους, ανάκατα, κάθε φορά που μπουκώνω (δηλαδή συχνά) απ' τη θεωρούμενη (απ' τους άλλους, όχι από μένα) ως σοβαρή ή υψηλή λογοτεχνία (στην προκειμένη περίπτωση παράτησα στη μέση έναν Ρόμπερτ Βάλζερ, όχι γιατί δεν ήταν καλός, αλλά απλώς γιατί μπούχτισα). Καμιά φορά περνάει καιρός, μέχρι να ξαναπιάσω κάποιο βιβλίο με τον Ρέμπους στα χέρια μου, αλλά ποτέ δεν με απογοητεύει. Και πολλές φορές σκέφτομαι πως ο Ρέμπους είναι υπαρκτό πρόσωπο και κάπου τα πίνει σε καμιά παμπ του Εδιμβούργου.
Best Rebus yet. The more I read him the better I like him; not in spite of his flaws but because of them. My enjoyment of this book was helped by my currently being in Scotland and having just visited Edinburgh which, as in 3 of the previous books, figures prominently in the storyline. However, in addition to the picturesque unfolding of Edinburgh's multi-faceted personality and the fabulously flawed character of John Rebus, this novel boasts an excellent plot and a most challenging and convoluted mystery. Well-done Ian Rankin. Can't wait to read the next one.

Al igual que los anteriores libros de la serie, una buena historia. Me gusta mucho el personaje de John Rebus.
I had read my last Ian Rankin book a long time ago, and as far as I remember that one was a collection of short stories, which I didn’t particularly enjoy.
Rebus takes up the cause and finds a black book belonging to the colleague which contains cryptic messages related to crimes mostly unsolved.
Filled with departmental politics, parallel sub plots and dangerous jumps in narrative between these plots, the book all the time felt like a chronicle of sorts from Rebus’ life, where in between all these personal issues he also managed to solve a crime.
After his detective sergeant gets hit over the head in a parking lot behind an Elvis-themed restaurant and lands in the hospital, the victim's estranged girlfriend tells Rebus about a black book that (in code) details cold cases the guy had been investigating on his own time.
She says he had seemed very stressed lately.Rebus follows the leads in the book, against the wishes of his superiors, and unsettles some powerful Edinborough worthies.
And speaking of recently released, what should Rebus do about his formerly drug-dealing brother?I like Rankin's plots and the way all the pieces tie up at the end.
May he never tire of Rebus and Edinborough!
**1/2.About one-third of the way through this novel by Rankin, I made a startling discovery: I could no longer remember the names of the various characters or what their roles in the story were.
All of this confusion in spite of my practice of writing down the names of characters in a book as they appear, along with a couple of words that will help me identify them.
Needless to say, I read the remaining two-thirds of the novel with little interest.
What worries me is the miasma that overcame me while reading this novel.
I've read other Rebus novels, but I won't be reading any more. This is over-long, there are too many bad jokes and then one of the main players conveniently explains everything in his journal! I think I've had enough of heavy drinking bad tempered detectives.
I confirm, I am obsessed with Rebus now. It's nice to get into a series late and know there's another 15 or so books to get stuck into.
This originally appeared at The Irresponsible Reader.--- As interesting and well-written as the mystery in this novel was, as I think about the book, I have a hard time thinking about it -- the non-case material dominates the book, and seems more important for the series as a whole.
I really wanted more of it -- and the people Rebus talked to about this case.
She's got a good sense of humor and duty -- both of which make her one of my favorite characters in this series almost immediately (second only to Rebus).The big thing is our meeting Morris Gerald "Big Ger" Cafferty – we'd brushed up against him in Tooth & Nail.
This was another strong entry in the series. It was a little bloated and not as tightly plotted as it could've been with a LOT of characters and threads running through it. As ever it's satisfying when they all come together, but it was difficult to keep track of throughout. Nice to see it continue forming into a series rather than a stand alone book though, and Rebus as a character continues to come into focus. I would not be cool with my landlord turning up and sleeping on my couch though.
I'm enjoying reading Rankin's Rebus series in order, watching the character grow. Rankin does provide more complex plots than do many other authors, which is both a blessing and a curse. I sometimes find myself a bit confused over who is doing (or has done) what. That said, he has great characters, so it's all good fun.
For me reading an Ian Rankin book is like polishing off a candy bar.
When a young member of Rebus's team, Brian Holmes, is assaulted at a restaurant with an Elvis theme, The Heartbreak Cafe, everyone is mystified as to why this would happen.
Brian had been living with a young librarian, Nell, but they had recently broken up.
As with all of Rankin's books, this has too many twists and turns to recount here.
Let's just say that a lot of great things happen here, there's more than a touch of that Tartan noir and humor that Rankin is so famous for, and that there is, as always, a surprise at the end.
Cafferty feels like the sort of criminal that would walk the streets of Edinburgh, or rather be driven by his chauffeur in some flash motor.Again I find myself reflecting that I enjoyed these novels more the first time round, and now, re-reading them at a more critical level, with the 'benefit' of having studied literature at uni, I find the weaknesses glaring and it's a shame because there is so much to like in Rankin's writing and the world he draws for us.

This was the best Inspector Rebus novel I have read so far.
I enjoyed the addition of another sidekick, a young female to take under his wing, and the inclusion of repeat performances by characters from these previous adventures into the seamier side of his town.
We are beginning to feel like we are more than visitors.
It seems like he was stretching too far to be able to draw those conclusions, but it's just a wee bit of the book and it really doesn't play a crucial part to the over-all.
