https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36998793-nightflyers
I wanted to really love this novella since it has a very interesting premise.
Unfortunately, Nightflyers is an okay read with mediocre characters.What hindered me from rating Nightflyers anything about three stars are the flat characters and the repeated use of the same descriptors.
Unfortunately, I think Nightflyers will work better as in a visual medium rather than a novella.
I’m not the best person to comment on the horror aspects of a novel because I rarely read them.
I love reading stories that mix science fiction and horror because it has the potential to create truly scary and unsettling stories.
The Nightflyer seems to be haunted.From the mysterious Captain Royd-who never appears in person and only via hologram; to the odd things that seem to be happening on the Nightflyer, to finally when, one by one, the crew members are being killed off.
Stephen King once wrote a book about a mysterious traveler who flew a private plane and killed his victims-he was known as the Nightflyer, don't know if that was a factor in the naming of this tale.The story is excellent.
A nice, creepy tale about a potentially haunted space ship.
However, I eventually was howling at the ironic humor in Martin’s plot (and reading with my eyes closed - don’t ask me how I do that, but hint: skimming and skipping paragraphs might also be involved along with squeezing my eyelids shut).
Great writers often do their best work stoned out of their minds - just ask Stephen King about his youthful work...
This novella is put together entirely in a coherent understandable plot.
Personally speaking, I have watched every Sharknado movie made so far, so keep that in mind when reading my review.
Weird people on a spaceship, and one is crazy about an alien species that’s almost mythical. People begin dying off, and it’s up to Melantha to figure things out.The story was ok. Kind of interesting. A whodunit that’s a little creepy. I only liked the main character Melantha; everyone else was kind of forgettable.
Really 2 and a half stars.
1980 novella that's a mix of science fiction and horror, set aboard a spaceship.
I thought it was slow in the beginning, but the pace picked up halfway through the story.
I did like that a particular horror trope was given a futuristic setting.
This book was released with a number of color illustrations, and in anticipation of the new SyFy Channel series (premiering December 2, 2018) adapted from this story.
I think it'll make a better tv script than a novella, as it is very visual in its descriptions.
There were times when I was invested in the story, when I was desperate to see how everything came together, but as a whole I failed to feel the depth of emotion I had expected to feel towards this one.
I wanted to be obsessed, instead I took a stroll through the story.Nightflyers was an interesting notion, giving us a few different things to enjoy throughout.
I appreciate good art, but I’m usually so invested in a story that it takes second place.
With Nightflyers, I found myself appreciating the illustrations more than the story.
Reading that, I felt some optimism; horror as a genre has never worked well for me, because without investment in the characters I feel bored rather than scared.Unfortunately, there was no humor or characterization here.
Instead, there's sexism like whoa and long wait for anything to actually happen.The characterization largely consists of information about the sexual exploits of the female members of the crew, particularly the heroine, Melantha Jhirl, who is more evolved than all the other humans, which she mostly exhibits through her smarts and lack of sexual inhibitions.
An interesting concept and very quick read with a mixture of typical humans, those with special abilities, and "upgraded new models", a phrase that I tired of while reading due to overuse.
There are so many things I'd like to have seen more of, but the overuse of descriptors and flatness of the non-key characters also made me glad to have finally reached the conclusion.
We learn little of the expanse of humanity through the stars, but get glimpses of it as each individual talks about their home world.
I saw this at my local library and picked it up on a whim because I’m interested in the upcoming Syfy series. This was engrossing, but I ultimately didn’t enjoy it all that much. The illustrations were beautiful though.
Competent sci-fi horror. The journey was better than the destination with this one. I don't even rightly remember what happened at the end because I had checked out. But I liked the beginning and middle bits.
It's a good story... I enjoyed it, but the first question it raises in my mind is.... How in the HELL is this short-even-for-a-novella novella going to be made into a *series*?
The plotline was easy to figure out, and I did not like the characters which of course makes you care less for the story overall.
It's a super quick read which is probably why you couldn't really invest in the characters too much.
I was more interested in the stuff happening outside the main storyline like the volcryn or what human civilization has gotten to after leaving Earth and all the aliens they've encountered.
Other authors have done this storyline better in my opinion , so I didn't feel like Martin contributed anything original to this style of story.
I didn't get a good enough sense of them until that point to keep them straight in my head.As for the creepy parts, Martin's descriptions reminded me (in a good way) of an extended version of his opening scene in "A Game of Thrones".
His descriptions in that scene gave me nightmares after I made the mistake of starting the GOT book late one night while by myself.
The last half of this book was deliciously chilling in the same way, but with a sci-fi twist.Overall, I enjoyed this book, but I still think I like Martin's later writing better.
meh it was okay. a horror story in space. everyone starts dying one by one. nothing new. at less than 200 pages and with a show coming soon i figured id give it a go. not much lost, not much gained. unless you've got hard-on for the author of game of thrones i wouldnt recommend it. 3 stars
"A haunted house story on a star ship" GRRM The ship Nightflyer is chartered to meet up with a mythical ancient species called the volcryn.
Characters:volcryn – an ancient alien species thought by some to be mythical/legendary.
They “sexed often but not with each other” (Idky GRRM says that because later they do "sex").Alys Northwind (female) Xenotech (studies alien technology) she ate constantly and never washed.=========================================="Nightflyers, as well as the Hugo and Nebula-winning novelette Sandkings, was the direct result of a writer being told he couldn’t do something:  “[T]he inspiration for both of those stories,” Martin explained, “was a statement I read somewhere by a critic, to the effect that SF and horror was opposites, and fundamentally incompatible.
A nice, atmospheric little piece. Simultaneously very typically George RR Martin in how flowery the text is, but also strangely sparse given what he's become famous for. I imagine it was an influence on the set of Event Horizon and I have no idea how SyFy intends to sustain a multi season show off this. Either way, this makes for a perfect rainy afternoon read.
Omg. I loved this little book. It was so intense and well written I couldn’t put it down. Two hours to read and I was enthralled the whole time. There’s a reason Martin is beloved. His writing is vivid and keeps you engaged. I only wished the story was longer and kept going!
This is an early Martin sci-fi work from 1980 that is getting a reboot due to the SyFy limited series based on this book coming out this month (December, 2018) which is the primary reason I wanted to read it.
Without giving away any spoilers this book is part Alien and 2001 Space Odyssey, but not as good as either of those.
Saying that, it is still a page turner though you know what is about to happen to some of the characters.
This is a quick read novella that doesn't pretend to anything than a page turning thriller in space.
Je suis passée totalement à côté de ce huis-clos à l'ambiance qui n'est pas sans rappeler celle d' Aliens ...
Je sors de cette lecture avec un goût de trop plein, un peu comme si Le volcryn était une énorme quantité de nourriture servie dans une toute petite assiette...
Cette façon qu'a George R.R. Martin de vouloir en dire un max sur ses personnages tandis que la place lui manque (il s'agit d'une novella) m'a fait constamment perdre le fil, ayant fini par lire les pages sans forcément les comprendre.Dans le même "univers", j'avais largement préféré L'agonie de la lumière, roman plus long et donc histoire plus développée même si les deux n'ont rien à voir.
Je testerai  Le Volcryn  à l'écran, pour voir.
3.5 starsShort Summary: A group of individuals set out on a scientific expedition to uncover the mys
I read this when it first came out in Analog, and the story still grips me today. A mysterious ship with a never-seen captain, filled with researchers chasing a legend. Then the deaths begin . . .Nightflyers is a ghost story in space, brilliant in its crafting of the nine researchers and the enigmatic captain-owner. It's solid as a science-fiction story and equally stunning as a work of horror.
More like a 3.5, but not a bad book at all. The premise was interesting and the plot entertaining.
What a book! The best one I've read so far this year. Goosebumps all over. Who knew sci-fi and murder could go together so well.
Good and creepy sci-fi novella. I know GRRM for his fantasy, so wasn’t sure what to expect, but I enjoyed this. It definitely borrows from other sci-fi, and the use of “sexed” instead of many less awkward alternatives threw me off a bit, but otherwise worth a read (doesn’t take long either).
Still a great story.
I find myself somewhat miffed now (upon a second reading decades after the first) that Melantha gets the extremely short end of the stick, affirming in the last pages that she will never leave Royd alone.
That's...great.
After spending the entire novella talking about how awesome and enhanced and generally better you are, you decide that living on a spaceship possessed by your quasi-lover and his sociopath mother and spending the rest of your life (which will be at least a hundred years) doing research with him while avoiding his mother's attempts to kill you is the way to go.
Proving that even in the immensely-far future, women still get to sacrifice everything for a man.
Even a man who is technically no longer alive.
It added nothing to the story.The story was also frustrating to read at times as some technical aspects did not make sense to me.For example, much of the story takes place within a spacecraft where the command/control section is separated from the passenger area, the cargo holds, and the engines by a solid bulkhead.
The passengers had been free to go from their area to/from the cargo holds and the engine room and yet there was not a single bulkhead door between the command/control section and the remainder of the spacecraft.At one point an external door was opened to the vacuum of space resulting in considerable damage as the air was released.
In the story, a crew of a few people chase after a volcryn, which seems to be some alien-spacecraft thing that has been travelling the cosmos since what seems to be the beginning of time.
I believe it was done so that readers would know that time had passed between our world and the world within the book, but it seems a tad bit confusing.
I believe that this skipping over of time excluded much of the story that would have developed the feelings between the characters, because in the book, the jumping around makes it seem like random thoughts and feeling pop up, and again, you are left a bit confused.
Royd Eris, the Nightflyers mysterious and reclusive captain, spies on his passengers at all times and only communicates with them via hologram.
Soon, the passengers begin to perish at the hands of this mysterious presence and call into question Captain Royd's role and knowledge in them.
The Nightflyers is a George R.R. Martin novella built around maintaining an oppressive atmosphere similar to the Alien movie franchise or Event Horizon.
The Captain and Nightflyer end up being the more interesting mystery than the Volcryn, which ultimately ends up feeling a bit disappointing.
My original version with the Binary Star publication had been signed so long ago, that each time I attempted to read it I frightened myself about it and would place it gently on the shelf.
The story begins with the question, How would we connect with another person?
As I read through this pictorial version of the story, it was not the images engraved on the pages that frightened me, but the text itself.
The conundrum that I personally face is that at times you read a story when you needed?
This is also a movie from 1987 with the same name (and can be watched in full on Youtube.) So what makes this so interesting that it is one of the only properties of Martin's that has been adapted, and not only once but twice?
And then people start dying.Martin has a tendency to start his works by introducing a large cast of characters right off the bat, and this is no exception, but he does a good job in helping us keep them all straight.
