https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/568674.Th_r_se_Desqueyroux
Niente ci separa dal nostro complice più del suo delirio".Lei avverte pungente la propria aridità e quella del loro rapporto, tanto da domandargli : "Non hai mai, come me, il sentimento profondo della tua inutilità?
Non pensi che la vita di gente come noi assomigli già terribilmente alla morte?".Un romanzo bellissimo come pochi altri.
trovano rappresentazioni che non possono lasciare indifferenti.Lo stesso Mauriac ha detto : "Credo che il dramma di Therese Desqueyroux sia il dramma di un disadattamento alla vita, il 'non siamo al mondo' ".
Ma il percorso di Therese avrebbe dovuto condurla ad "accettarsi; questo obbliga i migliori di noi ad affrontare se stessi", per lasciare che la fonte interiore sgorghi nell'autenticità.
(ambiguo) profilo di donnaC’è chi si assoggetta (più o meno volentieri, più o meno consapevolmente) alle regole del vivere comune, al formalismo, al perbenismo di facciata o, perché no, alla moda del momento.C’è chi, invece, non vi si  vuole  assoggettare.Ma c’è anche chi – per temperamento, carattere, indole, natura – non vi si  può  assoggettare. E’ qui che sta il vero dramma.”Come spiegarle? Non capirebbe che io sono colma di me stessa, che mi occupo interamente. Anne aspetta solo di avere de
(ambiguo) profilo di donnaC’è chi si assoggetta (più o meno volentieri, più o meno consapevolmente) alle regole del vivere comune, al formalismo, al perbenismo di facciata o, perché no, alla moda del momento.C’è chi, invece, non vi si 
assoggettare.Ma c’è anche chi – per temperamento, carattere, indole, natura – non vi si 
Ma io, ma io...”.Figlia della buona borghesia, raffinata, colta, intelligente, curiosa del mondo, ma anche solitaria, annoiata, inquieta, Thérèse è uno dei “cuori sepolti e intimamente legati a un corpo di fango” che abitano i romanzi di Mauriac.
Quello che gli è venuto meglio.Mauriac ha ripreso il personaggio di Thérèse in un altro romanzo (La fine della notte).
Therese - la ragazza più ricca e più intelligente della regione, forse non la più bella, “ma non ci si domanda se sia bella o brutta, si è schiavi del suo fascino” - non sa perché l’ha fatto.
Un periodo nel quale anche le creature più pure ignorano in cosa vengono coinvolte ogni giorno, ogni notte, ignorano quanto di velenoso germogli sotto i loro passi infantili.Per poi saltare con la mente al giorno soffocante delle nozze, il giorno in cui si vide perduta, prevedendo ciò che da quella sera stessa era sul punto di dover sopportare – ciò che di irrimediabile il suo corpo innocente stava per subire.Nelle sue fantasie notturne Therese immagina una possibile vita a Parigi.
I know nothing of love save that it is the constant object of my desire, a desire that possesses me and blinds me, setting my feet on the ways of the waste land, dashing me against the walls, forcing me into bogs and quagmires, stretching me exhausted in the muddy ditches of life.Run away, Thérèse.
How dare she want anything else?!) I don't know how she accepted the shallow waters of convent friend, and Bernard's half-sister, Anne, as affection.
Anne and her kind don't know anymore than Thérèse does about happiness.
Anne, pelo seu lado, está só à espera de ter filhos para se anular neles, como fez a mãe, como fazem todas as mulheres da família.
Ao primeiro vagido do fedelho que este anão lhe fará, sem despir sequer a jaqueta, Anne esquecerá a sua adolescência junto de mim e as carícias de Jean Azevedo.
As mulheres da família aspiram a perder toda a sua existência individual.
Mas eu, mas eu..."— François Mauriac, Thérèse Desqueyroux"Nós mulheres somos impetuosas, e por isso inconstantes.
Quando um ser do sexo feminino deseja uma coisa, vive, agoniza, morre para a obter.
In this brief novel boiling with tension, we see the inner conflicts of the type in Madam Bovary or Anna Karenina, but a lot more compressed and intense. Usually, I don’t like dark novels of this type, but what kept me hooked is the powerful story-telling of Mauriac, an absolute masterpiece. A deeply flawed character, Therese, keeps us engaged, because Mauriac has skillfully transferred her point of view upon us, so we are with her even if we know she is doing something unethical.
A gift from my brother.This novel is based on a true story when in May 1905 (thanks Wayne for your important remark about it!), the author attended the trial of the poisoner Mrs. Canaby: L’affaire des Chartrons.Therese, as well as Madame Bovary in some way, lives in her own world since her husband is not able to understand her feelings.
20Digitaline sol: 20 grammesThe first movie version of this book was made in 1962: Therese (1962)  with Emmanuelle Riva and Philippe Noiret.A new version was made in 2012: Thérèse (2012) with Audrey Tautou and Gilles Lellouche.
"One can make the most contrary judgements about the same person, and yet be right- that it is all a question of the way the light falls and that no one form of light is more revealing than another."This novel may be a foreign country to a male reader (despite the fact it was written by a man!) because it describes the servitude of women who, throughout history, have ached and desired and cried in silence for freedom.
She needs the Male to define her, fulfill her silence; it is as if she unconsciously seeks to murder all men to compensate for the life she never could take, that of her husband.
But this “flesh” extends beyond the actual flesh into all the background, all the buried impulses and motivations that lurk within our lives, leading our flesh into situations and traps, leaving it stranded and suffering and vying for an out, or at least a moment of tainted pleasure.
The receptacle for this compassionate disgust in this volume is Therese Desqueyroux.
Each day offers new age-old traps so one must step lightly through life, but then again what’s the use?
I suppose this is where his Christianity steps in, though that’s left out of the novels and sketches in this volume.
«زندگی حتی اگر سراپا به گناه آلوده باشد، باز هم عظمت وجود انسان را ضایع نمی کند... کسانی که ظاهراً محکوم به بدی شده اند، شاید خداوند قبل از دیگران آنها را برگزیند و عمق سقوط آنان، درجه شایستگی و هدایت آنهاست.»فرانسوا موریاک باید اضافه کنم که فیلم فرانسوی ترز دکرو با اقتباس از این رمان در سال 2012 ساخته شده
François Mauriac begins Thérèse Desqueyroux with her criminal case being dismissed.
And yet it’s Thérèse’s ambivalence about the crime which confounds her as well as us, the readers, as to the extent of her actual guilt, premeditation and remorse.
They give us glimpses of Thérèse from the time she is released to Paris from her house arrest until near the end of her life.
Here many earlier threads of Thérèse’s life come together and Mauriac reveals the true character of our heroine for all who can see, delivering a very satisfying, yet not unbelievable or saccharine ending.
pertence àquela categoria de livros grandes demais para o número de páginas que albergam.
Neste livro conhecemos a ilustre Thérese, logo à saída do julgamento onde foi absolvida pela tentativa de homicídio do marido, por envenenamento.
Além destes artifícios técnicos, a descrição física dos personagens reflete, nas suas doenças ou deficiências, a sua moral igualmente imperfeita.Mauriac faz alusões subtis, sugerindo ao leitor que debata e reflita sobre temas como o amor inatingível que Thérese vive (a componente religiosa também é muito debatida).
Deixando-nos com a aparente ilusão de liberdade com que começámos o livro, parece apelar à sua releitura.
As suas sequelas serão outros livros, outra personagem como não conhecemos aqui.
An indelible memory - I read this French classic a long time but have never forgotten it. Not sure if it's translated in English, but it certainly deserves to be discovered in this country. Mauriac is one of the great masters of the French language, and this novel is, deservedly so, one of his most famous and most celebrated. The title character, a murderess, is fascinating and her story is riveting. It's also a formidable portrait of French bourgeoisie.
Inspired by a "fait divers" concerning an actual court case that he read in his youth, Mauriac became deeply drawn to the young woman at the centre of it: what motivated her to want to poison her husband, getting charged with attempted murder, but then sentenced for a much lesser crime.
Interspersed into the musings that incorporate flashbacks on her earlier life, the author addresses Therese directly or, at times, adds his "pauvre Bernard" and other brief commentary.
Mauriac, no doubt, created in Therese a most complex character, a young woman contradictory in her behaviour and attitudes, who on the one hand knowingly entered a marriage that had as much to do with property and landownership as with family needs.
Therese is married to Bernard Desqueroux, who, although he owns acres of pine trees in France's Bordeaux region and can offer her an easy life, is stern and distant.
All of Mauriac's narrative attention is focused on Therese as she waits for Bernard to take her back home.
She looks back upon the crime through alternate states of conciousness and semi-consciousness not so much with feelings of guilt or horror at the attempted poisoning, but more upon how she can satisfactorily explain her motives to Bernard when he meets her at the station.
An unforgettable portrayal of a complex,fascinating woman trapped by provincial life.Reminds me of Madam Bovary.They all know Therese is guilty but family honour means she walks free after being acquitted!But as she looks back towards the events that led to this she begins to wonder if her punishment has just begun.A brilliant novel with exquisite prose.Now to continue the story as I find there are three more stories that follow on from this.
Of Mauriac's writing, Justin O'Brien tells the following in the New York Times: 'Both his subject and his style frequently recall Racine and Baudelaire; and indeed we often feel that we are dealing here with a poem, so rich is the symbolism and so fleet is the arrangement of themes.' Martin Seymour-Smith says that: 'His books are bewitchingly readable.'The author's foreword, directed as it is toward Therese, ends: 'I take my leave of you upon a city's pavements, hoping, at least, that you will not for ever be utterly alone.' The title story begins with Therese walking from court, 'having been charged with attempting to poison her husband'.
La risposta, a mio avviso, è scoperta ma anche abbastanza sorprendente per uno scrittore profondamente cattolico come Mauriac: la causa del gesto di Thérèse è la famiglia, i rapporti sociali ed umani che si instaurano all'interno dell'istituzione che la chiesa cattolica (e non solo) considera il pilastro dell'ordine morale e sociale.Analizziamo infatti il contesto: la vicenda è ambientata nella profonda provincia francese, le lande rimboschite con pini neri a sud di Bordeaux, uno dei paesaggi più monotoni di tutta la Francia.
Lorsque Mauriac expose les pensées profondes de Thérèse, à chaque fois, je me suis dit "voilà une remarque peu féminine".
J'ai trouvé Thérèse peu attachante, je ne me suis pas investi dans la lecture de ce roman.
Mon avis est personnel, mais d'après moi Mauriac comprend peu la psychologie féminine.
Il ne parvient pas à créer un personnage féminin pour lequel on éprouve une profonde empathie.
Thérèse Desqueyroux, c'est une mauvaise Emma Bovary.
Tout est si peu original!!!
Je ne recommande pas cette lecture, c'est un roman très court et pourtant j'ai trouvé le moyen de m'ennuyer!
What a hard book to read!
So complex.
Although I really love Therese but sometimes I couldn't connected to her in some ways.
Her voice and mind are very complex to read of.
This book was so intricate for me that I need to put it down and take a walk, play with cats after I read every 10 pages or so and then pick it up again.
The plot was quite simple but the way it laid it out and connected it with a complex character mind and how she 'act and react' to it was quite amazing.
No fim, é este acto quase insconsciente que, quase tirando a vida a Bernard, a vai libertar da família, até porque se tornou num empecilho e Bernard decide que ela poderá ir viver para Paris e fazer a sua vida longe dele.Muito mais se pode dizer sobre este livro, faço aqui apenas um pequeno resumo, na verdade, Thérèse é uma personagem muito complexa e os seus comportamentos e acções, tudo o que pensa e faz podem levar a reflexões por parte do leitor, assim como é importante reflectir o que é que Mauriac nos quis, afinal, transmitir com este romance.
“What did it matter—the sort of country one was fond of, pines or maples, sea or plain? Life alone was interesting, people of flesh and blood. ‘It is not the bricks and mortar that I love, nor even the lectures and museums, but the living human forest that fills the streets, the creatures torn by passions more violent than any storm. The moaning of the pines at Argelouse in the darkness of the night thrilled me only because it had an almost human sound!’”Gorgeously written! Thérèse is such a voracious antihero, an absolute treasure to encounter on the page.
Nobel Prize ProjectYear: 1952Winner: François Mauriac Review: This volume consists of Mauriac's two novels about Thérèse, Thérèse Desqueyroux and The End of the Night, as well as two short stories about her life.
Collectively the two novels, especially Thérèse Desqueyroux.
I'm glad I read the books, because they are well written and well translated, but I'm not rushing out to read more of François Mauriac's outputVerdict: François Mauriac was a famous author in his time, and critically acclaimed, and it was probably inevitable that he would win the Nobel.
It is the story of an arranged marriage involving the provincial nobility of France.
Our heroine Therese finds her husband to be such an unspeakable bore that she attempts to get out of her marriage by attempting to poison him She administers a good number of doses of arsenic before the pharmacist turns her in.
Her good-natured if boring husband agrees to grant her a divorce.The characterizations are so well done that the novel works brilliantly.
Its portrait of the social mores of the provincial nobility is fabulous.After you read it, download the movie with Audrey Tautou in the lead role.
It's another Thirst for Love! Fabulous!
الزوج ينجو ويسامح ويترك لتيريز حريتها لتعيش حياتها، يوصلها بنفسه إلى باريس بعيدا عن همسات وقيود بلدتها أرجلوز وبداخله رغبة واحدة وهي معرفة لماذا أقدمت تيريز على محاولة قتله.
بداية تمثّل هذا العالم بحبيب صديقتها وشقيقة زوجها جان أزيفيدو، وهو يهودي ومن طبقة إجتماعية غير ميسورة كما أنه مستقل ولا يكترث لكل من يحيط به وربما كان النموذج الذي أرادت الاحتذاء به دون ان تعرف كيف.
كتب مورياك هذه الرواية نقلا عن قصة حقيقية لمحاكمة مدام كنابي التي عاشت نفس ظروف بطلة روايته تيريز ديكيرو وأقدمت على محاولة قتل زوجها الذي نجا أيضًا لكنها حوكمت بالسجن خمسة عشر شهرا.
تجدر الإشارة إلى أن فرانسوا مورياك حاصل على جائزة نوبل للآداب عام ١٩٥٢.
Sans trop dévoiler, je vais tout simplement dire que cette histoire est bien du Mauriac.
On y rencontre ses personnages tourmentés, l’hypocrisie des familles, le climat lourd qui semble tout envelopper…L’écrivain tel un analyste des passions essai de jeter de la lumière sur le mal, son origine, son déclic, ses motivations, ses conséquences.
Une chose est claire : le mal, ou le péché, est un vrai mystère.
J’ai moins apprécié le sujet du roman que la technique narratrice, tant elle est riche en métaphores, figures de rhétorique, et traitement du temps.
C’est ça, du moins pour moi, où réside toute la richesse littéraire de cet ouvrage.
Amor não correspondido é tramado. O divórcio às vezes tornas as coisas mais fáceis mas naquela altura não se usava de todo. A Teresa é tramada e consegue levar a sua vontade avante. Teimosa e obstinada tem os seus recursos. Belo livro apesar de curto.
A really dark and depressing little novel. Of course I loved it.
Over the next 10 years he wrote three additional sections that he would tack onto the novella; two very short ones, in which Thérèse has left her tiny hamlet and her infant daughter and husband and moved to Paris as a single woman, and a longer one, equal in length to the original novella, in which her heart ailment becomes increasingly painful and brings her closer to death, and her daughter Marie, now 17, visits her in Paris because she has fallen in love with a young man studying there.
