https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5985.An_Episode_of_Sparrows
I've ordered a copy and look forward to immersing myself in it as I did as the ten-year-old searching for a bright future among the bomb sites and food shortages of post-war U.K.AFTER RE-READINGI couldn’t have been more than ten-years-old when I first read 'An Episode of Sparrows', but I remembered with great fondness the feisty waif, Lovejoy, and her gargantuan efforts to make a secret flower garden in a hidden corner of a London bombsite in a downtrodden section of the British capital.
I obviously can’t know for sure, but I couldn’t help feeling as I re-read ‘An Episode of Sparrows’ some fifty years later that the book must have had a profound effect on me.
Whenever I read a book by Rumer Godden I’m reminded why I like her so much.
Mrs. Combie’s flighty husband, George/Vincent (which is real name?)—who leaves us constantly wondering at his sanity—a sometime restaurateur, shows the most genuine affection for Lovejoy but who knows if this is a good thing?
The Misses Angela and Oliva refer to the street children as ‘sparrows’ but mean very different things in their use of the term.
I'd give it 5.5 stars if I could.An added bonus was learning how Godden was inspired to write the story.
The full meaning will only be revealed if you read the story.
The Square had gone down, its big houses were mostly divided into flats....while the poor streets had come up; Catford Street though drab and shabby with children playing in the street, an open air market at the river end on Saturdays, and the Canal Works behind it, was proud and respectable.
Lovejoy makes garden plans and finds allies among the children and grownups of Catford Street and gradually, through her eyes, we learn the dreams and struggles of life in this little neighborhood.There are so many wonderful characters--a whole glorious world of them.
What I learned from this book--how very much can be said, how much 'mood' conveyed, without overwriting.
This author will never look as if she was paid by the word.
I found most of her stories moving, well-written, true to the era and culture they were set in.
She sometimes has her books classified as children's books because she often writes about children...which just gives me one more reason to hate categorizing books as children's books.This was the first book I read by Rumer Godden.
The best was probably Thursday's Children--I'll have to go find that ISBN so I can get it on the site.
I really did enjoy this book, although Lovejoy was quite unlovable for the most part. I do believe she was her own worst enemy. Her life was extraordinarily hard and she tried to make things beautiful in her small world, she was determined and that saw her through many scrapes. Her friend Tip was endearing as he became so important to her, her life-line. Miss Olivia who saw these poor children as sparrows was a wise woman who needed to speak out for herself and stand up to her sister sooner.
What a lovely book.Lovejoy finds some seeds which she sows in the bombed ruins of post war London.The gang destroy it but Lovejoy finds the ruins of a church where she then grows her garden with the help of Tip and Sparkey.Beautifully written and reminds me of The Secret Garden.
I read and loved this book when I was thirteen, and picked it up again because my daughter is reading it. I loved it even more this time. It's a wry, compassionate, and wholly beautiful book that uses a seemingly simple "episode" (a desire for a garden) to explore the beauty of hope in environments hostile to the imagination and the potential that human relationships have when we set aside our prejudices and open ourselves to each other.
It deals with tough social issues, like abandoned children, mothers who sleep around, and gangs -- so may not be appropriate for some younger children (under 12 years old?).The story centers on the residents of a neighborhood in London.
Following WW2, the rich people on the square no longer have an iron fence to "protect" their lovely garden from the poor children.
Lovejoy Mason, a young girl left in the care of a poor restauranteur and his wife while her mother follows a stage career, is tough.
I love that this book, unlike Secret Garden (but like many post-WW2 books), does not have a sickly sweet all-better fairytale ending.
I have seen An Episode of Sparrows referred to as a young adult or even a children’s book, although Wikipedia lists it in amongst Rumer Godden’s adult novels, and having read it I think it fits there more comfortably.
To me it certainly doesn’t read as a children’s book (although nothing in the content would preclude a child reading it) but more, as a book for adults about children.
Rumer Godden’s depiction of children and childhood is particularly good as I have found in other novels by her.
Drawing the reader into the everyday lives of London characters, "An Episode of Sparrows" examines human pretensions, survival, resilience, law and order and what constitutes real compassion versus true justice, and whether we are going to live as an 'Angela' or an 'Olivia'.Lovejoy comes across a packet of seeds, and her imagination is sparked.“I want a garden,” said Lovejoy.
I wanted to give Lovejoy’s mother a good scolding (at the very least), and buy a gardening apron, tools and flats of pansies for Lovejoy.
Even though this is classified as a children's book here -- and even though Rumer Godden is primarily known as a children's author (I don't know how popular she is in the States but Celeste had read her) -- I think this is actually a book *about* children that isn't intended *for* children.
Some people might find this a bit saccharine, but if you want to read a beautifully written but still very uplifting (eek -- I don't usually use that word!) novel peopled by very real children, here it is.
I would have said that I'm not sure that this is really a children's book. I did read it as a child, though, and really loved it. The main plot is about a young girl growing up in post-Blitz London, who almost by chance, decides to make a garden in one of the bombed-out sections in her neighborhood. There are a few other subplots, but the the book's theme is that of making something beautiful out of imperfect beginnings. One of my favorite books ever.
I read this book very early in my writing career and loved the way the author moved through time. "As Jenny was to find out later...." was a sentence I never forgot. Sets the narrator apart from the character in one way, but draws the reader in. It's as if the author is whispering secrets in the reader's ear, but never with malicious intent. I love authors who love their characters, despite their faults, and Rumer Godden always does.
This was a reread. It's a simple and yet deeply described tale of just post-WWII London's children in the ruins. Such a difference between "trouble" for urban kids now to then. It's similar to The Secret Garden and it would be a delightful youth read, IMHO.
I do love Rumer Godden and wish she were better known. I hadn't read this before and was charmed by it: a lovely secret garden novel set in London, with spot-on characterization.
I'm surprised that NYR has classified this as a childrens' (or perhaps YA?) book.Godden was an expert observer of people and their surroundings, and this is an almost-perfect "mood" piece (not unlike Muriel Spark's "The Girls of Slender Means," or Godden's own "Breakfast at the Nikolides").Her characterizations are deft and subtle, and there's not a wasted word in this book. My only misgivings have to do with the conclusion (somewhat abrupt, I think), but that's small potatoes at best.
This was one of my favorite, favorite books as a child. In fact, I'm so surprised I don't still have my copy from that time as I have most of the others of my favorites. I'm so afraid to reread it for fear of finding it not what it was. But I'm feeling more confident with it being published by the NYRB as they have only been bringing out the best. I remember mainly a feisty waif, a bombed out area, and a garden.ETA Still as good as I remembered. Truly lovely book.
That moment when something exceeds your expectations...4.5 starsThis book feels a tiny bit like the urban version of The Secret Garden.
She proceeds to build a secret garden in a bombed-out churchyard and ends up transforming the lives of the people around her.I started slow and the writing was also hard for me to get into at first, but I ended up loving it.
Even though they had their squabbles and arguments, I was glad that Lovejoy had someone she could actually turn to, even if he found her hard to understand sometimes.
Here is an endearing tale of street children and English society which may plant seeds of respect for independent thinking in readers' minds.When I first pulled this paperback from my bookseller's used fiction shelf and glanced through it cursorily, an excerpted quote in the front caught my fancy:"You are making a mountain out of a molehill," said Angela.
Olivia was suddenly inspired to answer, "A molehill can be a mountain to a sparrow."I bought it.On first reading I was charmed with the finely detailed, realistic descriptions of English streets and their inhabitants.
Lovejoy Mason is one of the children on Catford Street in London.
All 11-year-old Lovejoy wants is a small flower garden of her own (she has practically nothing else), but finding a spot and getting things to plant in it requires ingenuity and stealth.
And some assistance from Tip Malone, one of the neighborhood toughs (who must be all of 13), and the annoying attentions of 5-year-old Sparky, who idolizes Tip and begs to be in his gang.
The garden is not Lovejoy's only problem; children and adults alike have their struggles in this memorable tale.
That said, this is a marvelous book about children and their place in a society recovering from a great tragedy (WW II).
The children make their own community and develop skills to survive.
The adults are also struggling to survive - some do it well, some miss the mark completely.
But the desire to create a beautiful space in which to thrive is important to all.
How each character defines that for him and herself is what makes this lovely little book so rich and beautiful.
The author delicately describes the struggles of this community and their hopes and dreams for themselves and each other.
I've always liked Rumer Godden. Her books are compelling without being grotesque or bawdy.I am only as an adult noticing the thread of Catholicism that runs through them. It's a fine thread, but very strong.Sparrows takes place in post-war London. Classes struggle to maintain their places, and human nature keeps on doing what it does, showing both the good and the bad in people.This book is, strangely, almost devoid of 'bad guys'. There are characters you like more, or less, but no characters with a real presence in the book are characterized as bad. The characters are portrayed quite realistically.
An unhurried but very absorbing and detailed picture of Londoners searching for purpose and connection shortly after the devastation of World War 2. Rumer Godden always wrote glowingly but not sentimentally about children in some pain and our scrappy heroine Lovejoy, who we see being abandoned by her mother but finding a cause to live in creating her tiny scratched together garden in the ruins of a bombed church, is particularly memorable.
Curious piece of gritty fiction that had me alternating between enchantment and disgust. The writing is evocative but strangely disjointed and even jarring at times. I didn't really like most of the characters at first but surprisingly understood and appreciated each one of them by the end, illustrating the power of the author's writing and leading to the four star rating.
At first, I had a little trouble falling into the story. By the end, I had lot of trouble not crying on the bus. What a lovely novel. It's a children's book, but with plenty of adult themes. People are good, bad, cruel, kind, thoughtless, attentive, cowardly and brave. Sometimes all at once.
Young Adult book.I enjoyed every word, every scene.Poor neighborhood London 1945.Children, gangs, adult intrigues and young, lonely girl passion for a piece of garden.I recommend the book with all my heart.If I have time, I'll read it again.
Yet, I feel that while the writing is evocative of its setting, the story transcends it.I'm surprised to find that many on this board were introduced to an episode of sparrows as children's literature.
But, much of the book's subtly comes from the children's interactions with adults and from the way the children are viewed, but eh adult characters.
Much of the book's richness turns on the inner growth of an adult character, who has been treated as a child by her sister.
A child might enjoy them on one level and an adult on another and an even older adult on yet another.
I've been reading a lot of books written by goofy English ladies lately, and I am getting tired of them.
This was a commuting book, one I originally bought, because a lot of women on Chicklit talked a great deal about how great Godden was, and how hard her books are to find.
Especially, because I had read one of her children's books when I was young about a family of dolls, and I loved it.
Etc. It's not a totally original story, is what I am saying.
It just that the story didn't tell me anything that I hadn't read before in any other of these quiet English lady stories.

Back in 1968, when I was in junior high, we were assigned writing a letter to a celebrity in an English class.
Oh, the fan mail to Leonard Whiting and Michael York!
(Can you guess which movie had just come out?) Me, I wrote to Rumer Godden.
I had read many of her books, but this is the one I mentioned in my letter.
It is achingly sad in its depiction of connections made and broken, and what 13-year-old doesn't want to inhabit tragedy for a time?
(Hence the popularity of said movie.)Unlike An Episode of Sparrows, my story had a happy ending -- Ms. Godden wrote back to me!
