https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/106085.Masquerade
The rest of the book is of the same quality - same flat characters, same obsession with parties, expensive things and good looks, same absence of noticeable climax, and, sadly, same plot (or lack of it).What goes for these books however is a very intriguing new take on vampire lore.
Because seriously, how many centuries will it take these millenia-old fallen angels to redeem themselves in the eyes of God if all they seem to care about are: clothes, modeling, parties, and hooking up?
My guess is: very many centuries (and books).In spite of the obvious low quality of the books, I am still moving on to book 3.
ehhhhh it was okay but i don't think i'll be continuing with this series. it just reminds me of vampire academy, but a slightly crappy version.
It continues where "Blue Bloods" left off, when Schuyler's grandmother was reprocessed through the vampire cycle, where she would eventually be reborn, after an interrupted attack by a Silver Blood.
The connection between Mimi and Jack through all of their life cycles is explored well, but apart from that their characters are much the same.
She could've ended the series with the sequel or maybe with the next one, making this a trilogy, but instead she's stretching the plot too thin with news of more books to come.
It just so happen that I read it recently so it was just very unfortunate, I can assume that if I read it before Twilight, Vampire Academy or House of Night it can be one of the vampire series I would rate higher.But still I find the book very sexy and still it was a bit different because it talks more about fashion and the vampires are associated with fallen angels and I really loved the author's writing style it was not annoying and I really like how she describe dresses and gowns that sort of stuff.
It worked against the previous novel, basically since it made the characters even more distant and unrelatable (except the fact that they're, you know, vampires and all), since I don't think any reader had any idea who those designers were anyway.
All the subplots that were hinted at in Blue Bloods are fleshed out in this novel as well, and I like how they are developing so far.Of course, the saving grace of this whole series is the vampires Melissa de la Cruz has created.
I don't know, maybe the plot will flesh out into something more, but for the time being, it doesn't seem to have enough substance.Also, what was the point of the Masquerade ball?
I bought this book yesterday and finished yesterday too.Urgh.
I was too intrigued by the first book's whole IDEA to let this one go by without a read.
I buy books out of habit, one I should VERY much stop until I have read it before since this one too was a waste of my money.Urgh again!
Also, Mimi said in the first book that she couldn't remember anything before Roanoke and now suddenly she remembers ROME and PARADISE and Lucifer himself?
Mimi just rubs me wrong.de la Cruz focuses to much on random modeling crap and should focus more on scenery and setting and STOP skipping key pieces of time.
I didn't like Masquerade, I loved it beacuse it will leave you with so many questions that you will have to read the next book.
Unfortunately, her world is turned upside down when a explosion goes off in the most secure place for a Blue Bloods.
As Schuyler continues to find out all about the deaths by Silver Bloods the effects are worst then anyone could have imagined.
I would definately recommend Masquerade by Melissa De La Cruz if you read the first book and you are thirsting for more romance drama and vampires.
Reviewed by Randstostipher "tallnlankyrn" Nguyen for TeensReadToo.comWhen we last left off with Schuyler Van Alen, she was just getting used to the news of being a Blue Blood, or what we normally label them as, a vampire.
She gets invited into the New York Blood Bank Committee and, before she knows it, Schuyler is swept away into the unknown world of the Blue Bloods.
Unfortunately, it seems like Schuyler discovered her true self at the wrong time, since three Blue Blood teens have been murdered.
Melissa de la Cruz continues her amazing series, BLUE BLOODS, with full force in MASQUERADE.
Cliff Hanger: yes!Rating: 4 StarsScore SheetAll out of tenCover:  8Plot:  7Characters: 7World Building: 7Flow:  6Series Congruity: 6Writing: 7Ending: 9Total: 7In DeptBest Part: Vampire Action!Worst Part: No help moving from book 1 to book 2.Thoughts Had: I remember nothing; Holy shit; WTH just happened?!?ConclusionContinuing the Series: yahRecommending: yahShort Review: It's been about 2months since i read the first book, and i remembered nothing.
I liked the book, but there wasn't a whole lot going on.
The plot was moving forwards but i felt like there was wayyy too much side stuff going on.
I hope book 3 is a big more straight forward.
The writing hasn’t improved much from book one, but the characters and the plot sure did!
This book had great pacing, and an even amount of plot development as well as scenes showing past events/explanations for things.
Overall this book is your pretty typical sequel, lots of filler and interaction among the characters.
I think I'll skip going crazy about the characters in this one because I know that the next book reveals a LOT of "secrets" and that there are some significant relationship developments (including one of my fave ships ever ayyyyy)
So, this is a pretty damn good vampire series so far but I am so ready for something to happen to Allegra already!
It did get a bit exhausting with the explosion and finding out who has responsible but it is interesting to know that Schuyler inherited some of her mother's abilities.
Maybe it has something to do with the idea that she is the lost daughter of Allegra and I need to know what the heck is going on.
But I also have a feeling that she's going to turn evil.
The teen Blue Bloods attend Duchesne School, enjoy the most fabulous parties and share a dark secret.
She finds him, but he doesn't seem to be interested in helping her fight the Silver Bloods, who have tried to get rid of the Blue Bloods throughout history.
Mimi and Jack Force are leading the Blue Bloods in getting ready for the traditional Four Hundred Ball.
Mimi begins to plan an exclusive afterparty for the teen vampires, but she is most looking forward to letting everyone know that she and Jack are destined to be together from history.
The story is still interesting (I like how de la Cruz worked Roanoke and Croatan into her plot, and I really like the idea that the elite of New York aren't just freakishly rich, they're also kind of, well, freaks.)I didn't like the new developments between Schuyler and Oliver.
I really didn't like Schuyler because of it - I'm a sucker for the pining childhood friend, so I came down on Oliver's side.I'm not wildly interested in the namedropping and the clothes, but it certainly serves its place in forming a picture of the world they live in.
I'll admit, I'm beginning to really like this series. I'm even gonna start book three right now, since that ending didn't even deserve to be called an ending. It was the biggest cliffhanger in all of Cliffhangersville.
Too slow in the beginning/middle. Need more of the Silver blood mystery throughout rather than just at the end! Still pretty interesting, excited to see what happens next :)
Nejvíce se mi na celé knize líbí to propojení s minulými životy. Podle mně je tohle úžasné série a strašně mě zajímá jak to celé nakonec dopadne.
“Never trust a shiny surface. They hide a multitude of flaws.”
It ended with a cliff hanger, which I hate, and the thing with the Silver Bloods is starting to annoy me.
Although, it was pretty weird when the author writes that Jack says he is going to have to pretend that Schuyler doesn't exist, but through the rest of the book he doesn't do that at all.
Why is it that she can start flirting with all the guys she wants to, but doesn't allow Jack to like anybody.
I am glad I didn't get bored in this book like I did with Blue Bloods.
I really liked this book a lot.
(i always ended up skipping that part of the book - i knew claudia dressed funky, okay?!) jack is still around and we don't really know why.
the blue bloods have their equivalent of a coming-out-deb ball, and the true persona's of mimi, jack, allegra, and the rest are revealed.
it's SO COOL to see how she ties this all to a bigger mythology, and how schulyer isn't the same - how she doesn't fit the story.
there are layers to these characters that i feel like we are just beginning to learn, and that's something i felt was missing from both the Twilight and  Gossip Girl series.
Since I hated everything about the first book, I was scepitcal to continue with the series. HOWEVER I did enjoy the second book LOTS more than the first book. I felt like there was actually something happening this time - we had a plot with action and everything. The characters are still very flat, and to be honest most of the storyline is very predictable. I felt myself enjoying this book. It was a quick and easy read.
Mimi the biatch was up into trouble because of Schuyler, wanting her out of the way for her and Jack Force to live happily ever after.
I feel a pang of guilt after realizing how I bashed her character in the 1st book and now, I think I love her character.*The revelations to Kingsley Drexel Martin’s real motive behind all his mysterious and mischievous actions.
And after all the trouble of Mimi Force and the trial, Kingsley’s nowhere to find!
What will happen to Sky now that she’s living with the FORCES???2.
Nine times out of ten, you hear about the whole werewolf-vampire hybrid combination (in my own opinion that's a bit overrated) so the fact that this author switched things up with a vampire-human hybrid makes this whole series incredibly interesting.My only major beef with this book was there could have been more suspense, more love/sexual desire, more action and aggressive approach to give the gnawing feeling to the reader to rush to the end to find out what will happen next.Other than that I think this could be a new favorite series for me.
The book is told through the alternate points of view of three Blue Blood females: Schuyler, who just found out that she’s a vampire and has started her transition, Mimi Force, the most powerful/popular Blue Blood at their school, and Bliss Llewlyn, Texan daughter of a senator who is newlly transplanted to New York and has found herself under Mimi’s finger.
She’s still on the trail of who is killing Blue Bloods, and they do get closer to the truth in book two.Mimi Force is still a mean girl, but in this book, she’s busy not only planning the Four Hundred Ball and the coming out of her and her twin brother Jack’s true angel identities, but also a Masquerade after party that is invitation only that is sure to cause a stir.
3.5 starsWhile I liked this book a lot, for most of the time I've felt like I was reading a filler book.
If you guys dont know what a filler means let me explain it to you; they are basically random (anime) events/episodes/arcs/characters that do not happen whatsoever in the manga.
Was this book truly felt like a filler episode?
No, not truly but there were moments,lots of moments made me think I was watching/reading one.Nothing worthwhile happens in the book until the end.
I really like the characters, though.
It felt like the author knew the setting and couldn't help but show off her knowledge, even though it had NOTHING TO DO with the story.The fashion talk was still annoying, but there seemed to be less of it in Masquerade.
One other thing that annoyed me: the further I got into this series, the more Schuyler felt like a Mary Sue. I think I'm ending my journey with this series here.
I know, I know a lot of you hate this series but................The story starts off a little slow in the beginning and the pov alternates between 3 or 4 different characters, which takes a while to get used to.
The story really devolps and becomes really interesting.I will read the 3rd book in this series, I thought I would dread it, but now I am actually looking foward to it and want to hurry up and get started!The ending was great, the author gives us a juicy tidbit of information.
If you absolutely hated the 1st one, this series is probably not for you.
WOW!I loved this book.
I can't even believe that such a short book could have so many things going on at the same time.
Maybe that's the reason why I love this series so much.
I thought it would not be a good series, but I ended up loving it.
I still can't decide if I want her to end up with Jack or with Oliver, I like both of them so much!And so many things happened in this book that I couldn't stop reading it.
And what an ending, now I'm dying to know what will happen next.
I loved the return of Schuyler, Mimi, Bliss, Jack and Oliver as well as other minor characters and the drama and intrigue they added to the plot.
I was enchanted by the secrets and the mysteries abound and couldn't wait to continue reading the story.
Every single chapter there was something new and marvellous.
The fact that there were vampires or "Blue Bloods" added to the mystique and general appeal to me.
It was exciting and new and I have run out of compliments to give the series...
:PCongratulations to Melissa de la Cruz on publishing an outstanding sequel to the 'Blue Bloods' series!
Can't wait to read book three!
I loved this book.
It was sooo good I read it in one day.
It is probably better for girls because it is written from a girl's point of view, but I think anyone would enjoy it.
It was one of the best books I have ever read.
This book was about Schuyler, a girl who is a blue blood, or a vampire.
But the vampires peacefully live among humans.
It is about teens who are learning how to live with the powers of being a vampire.
This book leaves you wishing there were more to it.
The ending leaves you haning, but it is still really good.
I enjoyed the second book in this series. We found out a little more about the characters and I can tell that it is building up. I like the idea of the masquerade ball, I believe that would be fun. Onto number three!
