https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/123938.America_Day_by_Day
"Another woman shakes my hand effusively: "I thank you in the name of France.' I would certainly like to know what supernatural voices gave them such mandates.Most of the intellectuals that I met in New York amazed me with their abstention from social and political questions, but these young people (she's at liberal Oberlin University in Ohio) amaze me even more.
She was interested in seeing our culture whenever she can find it:"And inherent in what I like and loathe in this country is something fascinating: the enormous opportunities and risks America runs today and the world along with it.

And, having a deep-rooted, completely cliche love of France, French-culture, food, women, et al., I think I might be more willing to read the musings of a French woman.That being said: my irritation/tiring feelings toward the novel emerged precisely because of that--du Beauvoir presents HERESELF as anything but "a French woman." She's intelligent, independent, a philosopher, looking at cultures with "the eyes of a sociologist." Granted, she's obviously more informed than most, especially most women at that time, but lets be honest.
I've been wanting to read this for years, and am glad it has finally appeared in print again.
The book describes de Beauvoir's three-month tour of the US in 1947, and recounts her impressions of the country as she travels around giving lectures at mainly privileged women's colleges, meeting new friends (including Nelson Algren in Chicago who was to become one of the great loves of her life with Sartre and Lanzmann), and visiting Hollywood.
She is not always flattering about Americans, but her observations remain interesting and pertinent even 70 or so years later.
This is book was recommended to me in the context for urban studies, but I also found it a compelling travel diary and memoir.The author is often overlooked because she is overshadowed by her famous love interest and her more well known book, but if you are interested in reading the perspective of an America long-gone by a foreigner, this is an excellent read. There is great attention to detail is the regional identity, speech, values and geography. As a foreigner, she is observant of the scenery and does not take for granted the American backdrop, which hardly exists anymore.
Oh, Simone. I had to head-butt my way through to the end of this book, probably mostly due to her increasingly condescending all or nothing statements about American Indians and small towns. It's still incredibly interesting to read her impressions of a country so unlike her own in terms of age and size. I want to get into a semi-heated conversation with her, which is actually not a wholly negative way to respond to a book.
A An excellent memoir of traveling in America; I really enjoyed her descriptions of her travels. I know many places have changed, but her impressions are important. I really enjoyed her insight into racism - she has a good perspective that shocked a lot of people for the time.
I keep fighting the urge to copy page after page in my notebook.
Cosman's work was especially brilliant in the moments where de Beauvoir first encounters different landscapes, and where she compares the American scenes to places she loves and knows at home.The scope of this book includes rather magnified insights into New York and Chicago, in addition to a survey of the nation.
I need another perspective on this subject from this time period.The narrative is bookended by de Beauvoir's experiences in New York and Chicago, and it is clearly with this vibrant urban culture that she most identifies.
Venturing up into Harlem against the advice of the usual fear-mongers, de Beauvoir indulges her love of jazz and muses on the persistent attitude of jealousy, resentment & shame on the part of the white population in relation to the black, and how those deep-rooted attitudes bloom into all-out hatred and fury as her travels take her thru the segregated south.
At times thrilling, at others dull, this travelogue is more often than not a joy, by one who knows the transformative power of travel and of seeking out and embracing the unknown.

I truly enjoyed this book.
Her observations about life as she saw and experienced it in the US are astute and insightful.
She is touring colleges and universities on a lecture circuit and meets many interesting people, does lots of sightseeing, and comments on everything that strikes her.
Jazz, NYC, the South, students and student life, Indian Pueblos, the Old West and the New West, Hollywood, New Orleans, Chicago's underbelly, 'the negro question', buses and bus stations, landscapes, cars, trains, homeless men, psychiatric hospitals, bars and drinking habits, fashion and politics.
Nothing escapes her comment.
Ein sehr interessantes, toll zu lesendes Reisetagebuch. Beauvoir verknüpft den eigentlichen Reisebericht mit mal knapp, mal ausführlich eingeflochtenen Gedanken zu Amerika; zu dem, was sie selbst dort erlebt, zu den Menschen, die ihr begegnen und zu dem Land und seiner Bevölkerung im Allgemeinen. Obwohl ihre Reise 1947 stattgefunden hat und das Land, von dem wir lesen, demnach eines von vor 70 Jahren ist, sind ihre Eindrücke und Einblicke um nichts weniger interessant und aufschlussreich. Angenehm ist auch, wie sehr die Intellektuelle Beauvoir sich ihre Neugier, Aufgeschlossenheit und Fähigkeit zum Staunen bewahrt, was in dem Text auf jeder Seite spürbar ist.
If you need to know America, the people, read this as your initial starting point.
This was a fascinating peek into America in 1947, as seen through the eyes of the iconic Simone de Beauvoir, who toured the whole country for four months.
Getting to see America through her eyes was a wonderful experience, like I was there myself in her company, observing all the landscapes that she drank in.
Such observations are interspersed throughout her day-to-day recollections of her tour, making "America Day By Day" an interesting read and a great introduction to the curious and perceptive voice of Simone de Beauvoir.
I picked it up because I was doing research on the period and have sometimes found the accounts of foreigner travelers useful because they report on things too commonplace for an American to mention.But de Beauvoir's observations about places are fairly dull.
In fact, not five blocks from that disappointing supper club was 52nd Street, the epicenter of jazz in 1947.
It was lined with popular clubs, Dizzy Gillespie, Charlie Parker, Thelonious Monk, etc., played for a cheap cover charge.The de Beauvoir of this book strikes me as someone lacking in genuine curiosity.
The book chronicles her journey from New York City to Chicago, Los Angeles, Santa Fe, New Orleans and back via the South.
As I read this book, I marvelled at how her observations about our culture and society could have been written today with respect to bigotry, poverty and racial insensitivity/prejudices.
She observed that students at the universities where she spoke weren't thinkers.
Towards the end of the book, I got the sense that she liked being in New York but, throughout the book, she seemed to dislike most things about America compared to France, her homeland.
It was full of insightful observations.
It only took me several years to get through this book, but it was a labor of love. What stunned me most were the parallels between issues in America today and those de Beauvoir observed in the forties. That, and her capacity to stay up all night "drinking whiskey and eating hamburgers." What a woman!
Excellent travel memoir. This book was written at the end of the 40s, but it's interesting to see how much hasn't changed in the United States based on her descriptions. I loved her descriptions of New York. If you live here, you'll enjoy what she has to say a about the different neighborhoods in Manhattan.
Ms. de Beauvoir provides insight about "America." Little wonder given the title. However, unlike de Tocqueville, Ms. Beauvoir seemed to wary of our country, the longer she stayed. Her keen observations about New Mexico were so compelling, I visited there soon after reading her book. Interestingly enough, nothing much had changed since her 1947 observations.
Check this book out for Simone De Beauvoir's fascinating takes on Americans and American culture in general, read it all the way through for the moments when she speaks with horror about the hideous ear muffs children wear.
This book is remarkably relevant for a look at today's American culture. De Beauvoir came to America at the beginning of the red scare. While much has changed, there are some notes on the difference between American & French culture and politics that still ring true.
absolutely wonderful. could have been written last week. her insight and analysis of the american psyche and way of life are penetrating, fascinating. and she drinks loads of whiskey and often stays up til four, talking literature and philosophy. i want to travel with her!
Lots of tedious stuff, as one would expect from a diary, but every once again there's a nugget or two
917.30491 B3861 1999
Beautiful and insightful as always. The last ten pages are pretty damning, but perfect and still lovely.
a very interesting look at 1940s American by a famous French thinker and writer.
Possibly my favorite travel log ever!
I really like this book. I'm reading it in bits and pieces whiling putting the baby to sleep. I think a lot of what she says is applicable today. Said by a European who has visited New York twice...
Shocking how little the mind of America has changed over sixty years.
