https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/539428.Arthur
The best I've ever read.
The story tellers each have a unique voice and cadence and I really love how it doesn't switch POVs except in each book 'part' so I can get stuck nice and comfortably inside one person's head.The writing style is often hard to read, wherefore this book isn't just a pick-up-and-go sort of thing, and it can seem to drag at times just because of that.The plot itself kept up a good pace most of the time, and I really liked the ending.
A rather good read indeed (although I still think the first one is the best).
I read this book in high school.
I'm sure I read it before the year I graduated, but since I can't remember the specific year, I'll just put 96.
This book was fantastic when I read it in High School.
It was truly a different perspective to the story of King Arthur than in books that I originally read on Arthur.
All in all, this novel includes a lot more Celtic ideas than other versions of King Arthur's story.
Great read.

I need to read this one again, but I remember Arthur and loving this book.
Then, upon waking one morning, it came into my mind that Morgian, Queen of Air and Darkness, was fear driven.
Why did she act now after all these years?
Because something drove her to act – and the something was fear.
Morgian was afraid.I'm so glad I got around to re-reading this book!
It's such a brilliant book about the Arthurian legend!
Lawhead's continues his Pendragon series with Arthur.
In this story, we see Arthur become the foretold high king ruler of the Isle of the Mighty.
Arthur and Myrddin must combat treasonous kings as well as multiple invasions of Britain by barbarians.
I'm glad Lawhead chose to use the first person account of the story once again, this time from a perspective of three characters.
Also, like the other books, there's a good deal of Christianity wrapped into the story, as there may have been in 4th and 5th century Britain.
However, I found it less intertwined and more preachy in this book.
Just finished the 3rd in Stephen Lawheads 'Pendragon Cycle', "Arthur".
Lawhead continues to weave wonder fiction around history and myth.
While the depth of character was maintained in this book, the storyline was not nearly as detailed as the earlier ones.
To portray Arthur as a master strategist, the story is filled with the history and detail of many battles.
The unfortunate thing is that the story between these battles often seemed forced nor as detailed as his prior books.
This is not necessarily a bad thing because it helped paint the picture that this time of Arthur's life was filled with the intensity of war.
Continuing on in the Pendragon series, "Arthur" is a great read.
I love this series and having a thing for Arthurian Legend, I have read a lot of these.
This is now my favorite Arthurian series.
Lawhead is a great storyteller and his characters come alive.
This series is written with Arthur and Merlin as followers of Jehu (Jesus) and is full of honor and bravery.
Some of they typical Arthurian characters are missing and some have come in a new and different way.
I can recommend for ages 14 and up, though it is geared for adult reading.
Good story == I have been re-reading the five book series of King Author by Stenphen R.
The books begin at the tail end of the Roman heydays and the implosion of Atlantis.
They take the reader through the few people who escaped to Britain and establish a community there.
Heir to these people if Merlin and King Author.
The stories are greatly embellished and provide believable tale of Authur, his round table, knights, many battles and the search for the holy grail.
Good reading!
These books are on my home bookshelf and get read regularly about every couple of years.
The archetypical Western Canon hero can be quite boring. Having a stiff upper lip, square jaw, abjuring preemptive action and being achingly pious can result in a distinct lack of dramatic tension for the reader. Lawhead's Arthur overcomes all of the above disadvantages (and more) and coming across as a genuinely interesting and inspiring character. Lawhead also adopts a multiple first person narrative to good effect in this book. Highly recommended, but be sure to read the first two books in the sequence first.
Great ending to a fun series. This was probably my favorite book in this series as most of the characters were quite familiar to me (from King Arther and Queen Gwenhwyvar to Merlin of course). The book is a tale of Arthur uniting the British "Summer Kingdom" together and so there is a lot of battles and war. All the same, I quite enjoyed the story and was very impressed overall with Stephen Lawhead's ability to tell this story and his knowledge of the British legends. I plan to read more from him.
Seguimos con otro gran libro dentro de esta saga. Si en el anterior teníamos a Merlin, aquí vamos con Arturo, el otro gran personaje que da nombre a todas las sagas artúricas, el "héroe" y leal caballero por excelencia.Lawhead sigue manteniendo el tono narrativo que hace que no puedas parar de leer página tras página.Arturo deberá luchar…y lo hace, acompañado por Merlín y su magia, símbolo de la unión de celtas y atlantes
Lawhead is a brilliant writer in many aspects but also not so brilliant in others, his lengthy scenes and descriptions can drag on too long and be completely unrelated to the story. But a lot of the time I do enjoy his writing and how he portrays each character, I especially like how Arthur is portrayed as a strong and yet vulnerable young king.Overall I really enjoyed this book.
Lawhead is a Christian writer that has the ability to weave Christianity into the fabric of a story (even historical fiction) without cheapening the faith or ruining the story. This is what he has accomplished in his telling of Arthur story. Imagine beginning with the destruction of Atlantis, the conversion of the Druids and Christianization of the British Isles. A fantastic story!
Este libro hace homenaje a los dos mejores personajes de las leyendas Artúricas. Muy épico y con mucha acción, está muy bien escrito y logro que olvidara mis prevenciones con esta saga debido al amor que le tengo a la vulgata escrita en el medioevo.
Just as good the second time around! :D
Another worthy viewpoint on this legend
I'm a fan of Arthurian legend, but Lawhead's treatment is distant and a little impersonal. There are far better versions of the tale of King Arthur. I recommend Mary Stewart's "Merlin" trilogy.
Existem mais três livros do autor com as personagens, mas são como que "à parte" ou derivados.
A lenda do Rei Artur, de Merlim, Morgana e todos os que a ela estão associados (Cavaleiros da Távola Redonda...) sempre foram elementos da minha curiosidade e do meu interesse.
Gostei muito dos dois livros anteriores, mas este tem um gosto especial.
Não podia deixar de mencionar duas outras personagens que tem um grande relevo ao longo deste livro: Merlim e Morgana.
É um prazer ler estes livros, pois, de facto, são obras de relevo da literatura, especialmente no que toca à lenda do Rei Artur.
A beautiful, epic treatment of the Arthurian legends, with several interesting twists that diverge from what I was expecting.
The Celtic or Old English interpretations of several names made each new character a mysterious revelation, and the multiple narrators made the story a fascinating shift of perspectives.
As big a fan I am of Bernard Cornwell's historical warfare fiction (including another spin on the Arthurian legend), his work is vehemently anti-Christian (or, at the very least, anti-church)...so it was refreshing to read of Christianity as a light in the world instead of the ugly, corrupt caricatures found in Cornwell's stories.
It felt like Mr. Lawhead was simply trying to cover everything in one book.
Pelleas, as assistant to Merlin, was able to tell us about Arthur's character and rise to power.
(I did root for him though--I mean, it's King Arthur!) Maybe Mr. Lawhead intended for his hero to be a bit mysterious, but I still would have liked more of a personal touch.In contrast, Taliesin (book 1) was written in third person, enabling the reader to get a good look at the main characters without having to go through a separate one.
Merlin was pretty dang good, with only a lull in the middle of the book.
Arthur was pretty dang ok.
The first two books were at least partly narrated by the titular character.
This book didn't give Arthur's point of view even once.
The first was Pellas, Merlin's right-man.
The second was Bedwyr, Arthur's right-hand man.
Perhaps, it's to lend a feel to the huge legend the man has become (for historians do think the legends were based on a historical king).
So perhaps I'll finish by saying the story covered in the first 3 books of this series was good in its own right.
Very well written and I cannot believe that it has not a popular adaptation! My favourite character is still Merlin.
This is my absolute, most favorite book about King Arthur EVER written.
This is a soldier's story, a man who could discern the ebb and flow of a battle better than anyone every had.
Arthur was a hero of battles, a great leader even though he was young.
I was enchanted with this version of Arthur.
Just as real were the clashing of the swords, the screams of the men and horses pierced and dying on the battle field.
Arthur.
Man of my dreams, King of my heart.
Although it was a good book, Arthur was an unsatisfactory ending to the original Pendragon Cycle.
Although there are three more books I am pretty sure they will not be able to fix this ending.
I guess I shouldn't judge them before I read them but Arthur ends with Arthur disappearing along with the last of the Atlantians.
When you spend two and 1/2 books trying to build a wonderful kingdom, obviously you will be disappointed when it seems to last such a short amount of time.
Especially the first half when it tells of how Arthur struggles to be named King and take control of his kingdom.
This book is "too much" for me.
Basically the book itself, the story, the characters are fine.
But too long!
The story divided into 3 parts: 1st narrated by Pelleas, 2nd narrated by Bedwyr and 3rd narrated by Aneirin.
In my opinion the 1st and 2nd parts are very very long, and boring.
The Pendragon Cycle series is also too long.
5 books (around 2200 pages at all) are more than enough for the story of Arthur.
I will continue to read the series, but I hope the remaining 2 books will be not "too much" :)
A very good read.
Arthur's rise to become High King is difficult as he works to gain the support of all the kings in the kingdom.
Even when he attains the crown his support among some is tenuous.
The impact of Morgian, her father, and her son Medraut takes its toll on Arthur's supporters.
When Arthur and his knights leave the Summer Kingdom to assist Rome, Merlin and Gwenhwyvar, the queen, are captured and held prisoner while most of those he left behind have been murdered and his kingdom pillaged.
While I enjoyed this read my favorite in the series is still Merlin.
I continued my Arthurian travails with The Pendragon Cycle series.
This is a modern sci-fi / fantasy take on the Arthurian legends.
The first book started off as an interesting fantasy take on Arthur with some Atlantis thrown in.
I thought it was pretty original and easy reading at first.
However, the characters were pretty weak and didn't keep me totally engaged.
As the series progressed, it dragged more and became a lot more preachy and the characters were just too shallow.
I only ended up reading 3 out of the 5 or 6 books in the series.
Très bon livres, meilleur que le tome deux, qui avait un rythme un peu lent.
Les personnages des livres précédents poursuivent lors évolutions et de nouveaux personnages bien créés font leur apparition.
L.histoire est solide et j'aime bien que le livre soit séparé en trois parties, chacune racontée par un personnage différent.
Cela brise un peu la monotonie, apporte une touche et un point de vue différent.
Bref, même s'il en demeure un livre au rythme relativement lent, j'a bien aimé lire cette version d'une si grande et merveilleuse légende.
was quite disappointed to see the pagan and druid religion regarded so badly in these books when i had thought that merlin was very much a druid and the fact that he and all the others are portrayed more as catholics and so fervent at that was very disappointing.
also this book in particular is very much all about wars and i am not so much into wars but i suppose that was the reality of life in those times!!
Must say that i did start to respect arthur a bit more during the reading of this book but still prefer merlin!!
