https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149196.Eva_Luna
I've read most books of her books - but never read this one.....which is now available as a Kindle download-- for $2.99Eva, ( a storyteller much like Isabel Allende, and revolutionary), begins this story -- narrating in first person.
...and after the professor dies her one friend, Huberto Naranjo at the time - and later sometime lover until she falls for another man - places her in the care a Lady Pimp named La Senora.
It's been a while since I remember reading early-fiction books by Isabel Allende.
If readers liked Isabel' early fiction books - but missed this one - they are sure to enjoy "Eva Luna".
And the story itself is about a girl who loses her mother and loves her mother deeply and has all kinds of wooooonderful adventures, only to discover writing and have even more maaaaaaagical adventures, and become highly successful, and be pursued by a general and also a communist rebel and a successful photographer.
I will also say I disliked that the narrator had a quality of simply announcing the events of the book.
I like to move with a narrator, not several steps behind her.
All I know is I'm glad I checked this book out of the library instead of buying it.
I found that reading this book was a bit like attending a storytellers' cocktail party, at which the hostess (the author) has got drunk and decided to rapidly parade every unusual and eccentric character she could possibly imagine before the gathering, in order to impress her friends.A host of unusual tales tumble out of this book, like so many magpie-gathered jewels that had been crammed into a box.
I wanted to know Eva Luna and the characters she encounters, a little more, explore their emoitional depths, understand their motives, perhaps even warm to them.
Not too much logic involved, only how it makes a person feel.This story spans decades, as one has always come to expect of the Allende novel.
It's possible that as Eva went from the young girl who battled many obstacles to the fearless young woman she became, I was drawn to her risky love choices and her modern political reality.
There is a certain mystical realism that is utterly convincing but most importantly, I love how Eva uses her imaginative strength to triumph over a challenging reality.

The Good:The characters are all amazing - mythical figures inhabiting an unnamed part of Latin America some time in the middle of the 20th century.
The setting is vivid, and the series of vignettes through the first half of the book read like fairy tales.
It's also pretty funny.The Bad:The sense of magic really died away in the second half.
It became a fairly shallow political story full of neat resolutions and pleasant anticlimaxes.
And books about writers always feel a bit self-congratulatory.'Friends' character the protagonist is most like:Eva is the emotional rock to her loved ones, and fiercely loyal, just like Joey.
She managed with difficulty to overthrow the barrier of prejudice and Melecio convinced the benefits of the proposal. He felt first shocked by the atmosphere of the place, but, during his first night, he discovered that not only housed a woman in itself, but rather an artist.Undoubtedly a novel worthy of 4 stars.
I think I was deeply moved and inspired by the novel because of the formative time period in my life when I read it.
The entire novel for me is about the journey not just of herself but of an entire society that learns to adapt and transform reality in order not to dwell in suffering but to live a life of appreciation and joy.
For example, a passage in the novel reads, "As I approached my seventeenth year, I grew to my full height and my face became the face I have today.
It's the only book by Allende I have read and I really liked the story. The characters are very varied. There's an important character, an Arab immigrant, who is a lovely person, honest, generous and modest.Anyway, I've been told this author can get very repetitive... Save for that sweet Arab immigrant, I didn't find much in the book that might encourage me to go on with other works by Allende.
The psychological lense of me understands Eva Luna's storytelling as therapeutic tool, her retelling of a traumatic past with newly imagined happiness makes the present palatable and a future possible.
And I'm grateful that despite the novel's trekking through some terrible times--destruction of the Indians, abusive childhoods, government suppression, guerrilla revolutions, and violence against women--Allende does not glory in the gore but tells her story frankly and magically.
The novel let me taste again the wonderful mystery of the literary art.
Sure, at times logical and understandable with child development and psychoanalytic theory, but mysterious and fiercely beautiful nonetheless.
I wonder how much these mental wanderings of mine were prompted by the fact that Eva Luna is, among other things, a novel about a woman who becomes a writer.
A heroine may have romantic feelings or attraction even towards man from the regime (take for example, the army fiance in Love and Shadows and the military figure who courts Eva in Eva Luna).Often the female protagonist is, at some point in the narrative, imprisoned or tortured.
As Allende herself notes in Eva Luna- sometimes changing even a little detail can change the story.
There is something otherworldly about magical realism, something surreal, whereby the reader is transported into a parallel universe, a universe where, despite the stories ostensibly being set in our world, the colours, sights and sounds are richer and vibrate with the vivacity of the writer's imagination and the sensuality engendered by their prose.
Although 'Eva Luna' contains many of the tropes associated with magic realism; political dissidence and violence, a cast of eccentric characters including clairvoyants and curmudgeons, a strong sense of sensuality and a almost limitless litany of surreal scenes and scenarios, Allende's effortless storytelling, her ability to the draw the reader in to the lives of the characters she creates and the richness of the world she imagines causes the reader to forget the feeling of deja vu they sometimes experience during the reading of 'Eva Luna'.
مذهلة
Set in an unnamed, South American country Eva Luna is a poetic, modern day Latina flavored version of 1001 Arabian nights.
The romantic triangle in the novel, though not empahsized, is what nags at the reader's mind and keeps them dedicated throughout all of the smaller sub plots.
But I must reiterate, that the wonder of these sub stories is how Allende later makes them relevant to the main plot.Politically and passionatly charged Eva Luna is a fantastic novel about what it is like to be female growing up with enouigh flavor of it's to make it a unique tale.
The beginning of the novel deserves 5 stars.
But once Eva Luna moved on from Riad Halabí (about halfway in the novel) the story became rushed and not as descriptive.
I was unsatisfied with the ending because there could have been more character development on Rolf Carlé.
Rolf Carlé’s story was shared alongside Eva Luna’s account of her own life.
I feel like since Rolf Carlé was such a prominent character he deserved more.
Nevertheless, Eva Luna is a great story filled with characters I will always remember, passion and eroticism, and of course in true Allende fashion, historical and feminist connections.
Ir žinoma, Allende kūryboje labai daug diktatūros, perversmo, revoliucijos, partizanų vaizdinių, bet visa tai rašytoja pasakoja tik iš paprastų žmonių perspektyvos ir labai kažkaip artimai – pažinčiai su Pietų Amerika turbūt pats tas.Kaip visada niekam tikusioje anotacijoje tarp daug tuščiažodžiavimo ir klaidinimo, „Eva Luna“ apibūdinama kaip meilės istorija (vienintelis konkretus ten parašytas dalykas), įtariu, kad daug kas ją taip vadina, bet man atrodo jai toli gražu iki to.
Tie įsimylėjėliai pirmą kartą susitinka likus šeštadaliui knygos (penkiasdešimčiai iš trijų šimtų puslapių) ir knyga labiau pasakoja tų dviejų žmonių gyvenimo istorijas, atskirus jų gyvenimo kelius, sunkius ir kliūčių kupinus, kuriuos galiausiai sujungė meilė, bet ji toli gražu nebuvo centrinis romano dalykas.O pasakodama tas dvi didžiąsias istorijas Allende įpina ir daug pašalinių, dažnai tragiškų, komiškų ar neįtikimų istorijų.
This is the first book by  Isabel Allende that I've read and I can totally see myself getting addicted to her writing...That, and my mother has sent me about 10 of her books to read here in Malaysia.
But I stayed up all night last night just to finish the last half of the book, and that usually means that I really like it.
The story is also about the social and political situation in the annoymous South American country Allende is writing about.
I just picked up some of her short stories in Spanish, so I'm pretty excited to keep reading this author!
Isabel Allende is one of my favorite authors and I’m having fun re-reading some of her books.
It took me a little longer to complete this one.
I mean that in a good way.
Her writing is so beautiful and so rich, that I often found myself re-reading paragraphs.
I love the depth and richness of all the characters.
A quote that I loved: “The house was a vast labyrinth of books.
Volumes were stacked from floor to ceiling on every wall, dark, crackling, redolent of leather bindings, smooth to the touch, with their gold titles and translucent gilt-edged pages and delicate typography.”
"Chamo-me Eva, que quer dizer vida, segundo um livro que a minha mãe consultou para escolher o meu nome. Nasci no quarto dos fundos de uma casa sombria e cresci entre móveis antigos, livros em latim e múmias humanas, mas isso não conseguiu tornar-me melancólica, porque vim ao mundo com um sopro de selva na memória." (Isabel Allende, Eva Luna)
Reseña en el canal: https://youtu.be/Js7BScLH86YEste libro me acompañó por casi diez días y Eva me llenó de historias de personajes pintorescos e historia latinoamericana con la imaginación y la pluma que sólo Isabel Allende sabe manejar.
Como casi todos los libros de Allende, un viaje a través de la memoria y la imaginación.
I'm delighted to say that my second Allende novel pretty much lived up to my expectations set by The House of the Spirits!
She seamlessly blends magical realism with love, sexuality, politics, and feminism with a knack for characterisation that makes every sentence a joy to read!.Eva Luna is a story about stories; as Eva grows up in a tumultuous political climate, she finds herself in the care of an eclectic range of people, all of whom later feature as characters in the stories she trades and writes for a living.
And by we I mean me and the many voices in my head that are trying to sort this book out.
If we are to believe her words in that quote then how are we to believe the words that she wrote in this book?
The relationships in this book seem a bit of to me as well.
There is a bit of an incestuous theme throughout the book that makes me wonder what Allende was trying to achieve by making the relationships the way she did.
I think I'll be thinking about this book for some time.

Eva Luna is a storyteller.
These are her stories about her mother, her childhood as an orphan, her growing up and becoming a writer, various loves, and the many interesting characters that come and go from her life.
While this book is mainly about Eva, we also get the story of Rolf Carle.
His story runs parallel to Eva's, and they eventually meet as adults, but we learn about both of them through the stories of their youth.
This book was well-written, though slow-paced.
The characters were strong and interesting.
Characters made choices without any real explanation or lead up; events happened just because they happened.
Although the writing was lush and the events themselves often interesting, the fact that the book was so expository was irritating, and I didn't wind up caring much for any of the characters as a result.
Additionally, the whole book is about this FANTASTIC, mesmerizing storyteller, a modern-day Scheherazade -- and yet with the exception of one page of her actual storytelling near the novel's end, I have no idea why I should believe that she's so incredible other than that I'm told (by the character herself) that she is so, repeatedly.
I read this book over 2 decades ago but I recall it being a wonderful read full of love and adventure.
Isabel of course will always mourn the assassination of her father Salvador Allende by Pinochet's henchmen (and backed by the CIA) and some of this intrigue is woven into the story line.
Her writing contains a touch of the magical realism of Marquez but with a very female (and sexually active female at that) perspective.
There is also a sub-narrative and perhaps it is fair to call it post-modern in that it varies the narration and even gives some of the ending away as the drama unfolds.
Was assigned this for the Feminist Ethics course where I composed the paper on thisKafka: Toward a Minor Literature. Enjoyed Eva Luna immensely on the political level, but, then, there's the melodrama. This is a telenovela, a Fassbinder for those in the cult of the (Latin American) Boom. There is a fascinating positioning of common tropes to allegedly higher ends.Despite is exaggeration, the model Allende employs lends itself well to theory, for those inclined.
Izvrsna priča koja u sebi nosi sve ono što bi jedan roman trebao imati. Glavni lik je žena koja na svom putu susreće različite likove ( muškarce). Njen zanimljiv život opisan u ovoj knjizi tjera i suze i smijeh na oči! Preporuka!
Intriguing and promising in the first third of narration, but then it slows down. Events a bit predictable. Why it is less enchanting than The House of the Spirits?
