https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34050917-the-girl-in-the-tower
Every time you take one path, you must live with the memory of the other: of a life left unchosen. Decide as seems best, one course or the other; each way will have its bitter with its sweet. Magical. Dark. Beautiful. Fans of The Bear and the Nightingale should love this sequel at least as much as its predecessor. The Girl in the Tower contains everything I loved about the first book, but I feel like Vasya has really grown as a character. She's still as spirited as always, but older and wiser,
The Girl in the Tower contains everything I loved about the first book, but I feel like Vasya has really grown as a character.
Details of everyday life add to the novel's realism, such as the hygiene (or, I should say, lack of) and the dangers lurking in the woods.As with the first book, The Girl in the Tower gains strength from its atmosphere and strong sense of place.
Add to this the stifling constraints placed on women of the time, and you have a very emotionally engaging experience.I am being careful not to say too much, but this book is definitely worth the read if you enjoyed The Bear and the Nightingale.
ARC provided by the publisher via Netgalley in exchange for an honest review.1.) The Bear and the Nightingale ★★★★★  “Vasilisa Petrovna, murderer, savior, lost child, rode away from the house in the fir-grove.”  Hi, my name is Melanie and I’m in love with a frost demon. You guys, please stop sleeping on this series. This is the best historical fantasy I’ve ever read in my entire life. And all of the Russian folklore is actual perfection. This is the type of book that reminds me that literature c
Well, unfortunately, Vasya soon finds that the world has to offer many cruelties, and some of the surrounding forest towns have been burned down and had their young daughters stolen away.Vasya can’t help but want to save these people that remind her so much of her own village back home.
And Vasya soon finds out that her niece is much more like her than the world would want.
Like, this entire series is about a girl who doesn’t want to fit into women’s gender-norm for this time period.
And even when she feels like she has the whole world against her, Vasya never backs down or changes who she is.
4.5 stars. “Has the world run dry of warriors?' She asked...'There were no heroes,' said Vasya between her teeth. 'There was only me.”   Vasya lives in a time where women were not given many choices.  A woman married. Or she became a nun. Or she died. That was what being a woman meant. Wanting neither of the three, Vasya chooses to remake herself to create her own, fourth option. She takes up the mantle of a warrior and sets off to do something about her dismal country. What she didn't count on,
“Has the world run dry of warriors?' She asked...'There were no heroes,' said Vasya between her teeth.
What she didn't count on, is actually being really good at it (though with a winter demon one one side and a magical horse on the other, she certainly gets quite a bit of help).With the help of the Russian fair folk and creatures (whom only a select few humans can see) and her own grit and determination, Vasya rises in power until she has the ear of her ruler.But every second she spends in the limelight is a chance for her true identity to be found out - and if that is revealed, who knows what would happen?Katherine Arden absolutely blows me away with her latest creation.Vasya is incredible - her strength, her cunning and her fearless attitude all combine in just the right way.
Arden creates such a glorious and wonderful world that I was actually disappointed to see this book end.
Only time will tell if she’s made the right decisions and the commitment may be more than she can bear.This second installment has more action and adventure, the addition of new characters, and clues that offer insight to some of the events in the first book.
I enjoyed the characters and relationships, especially Vasya’s relationship with Morozko and her horse Solovey.
(hide spoiler)]When I first began reading, I felt as though I was right back in the first book again and had to remember a few of the characters.
‘’Think of me sometimes’’, he returned, ‘’When the snowdrops have bloomed and the snow has melted.’’ Moving on to the 2nd book of the trilogy immediately after finishing the 1st volume was a no-brainer and from the very first pages, I knew that this would prove to be an exciting journey. Well, ‘’exciting’’ is an understatement actually. In my opinion, this was a rollercoaster of images, of characters and emotions. It was better than that the 1st part of the Winternight series and its atmosphere
It was better than that the 1st part of the Winternight series and its atmosphere was more ‘’Russian’’, more faithful to the original legend, more authentic.In the rare cases in which I have dedicated my reading time to a trilogy, I’ve found that the 2nd book is usually my favourite.
She is a really capable writer and her writing here is mature, engaging and haunting, fully doing justice to the beautiful wintry fairy tales from the land of the Rus.There is not a single trace of YA tropes and norms in this novel, and despite the extensive presence of characters of a world beyond our own, this reads more like a Historical Fiction book, rather than a fantasy.
They’re unexpectedly joined by a red-haired lord called Kasyan Lutovich, who unexpectedly appears with his men to help with the search, explaining that his lands (called Bashnya Kostei, the “Tower of Bones”) have also been raided by these bandits.Vasya’s refusal to comply with the customs and rules of 14th century Russia regarding the proper role and behavior of women ― in particular, highborn women ― gets Vasya into a lot of trouble, both on the way to Moscow and once she arrives.
The deeply conflicted priest Konstantin also reappears in The Girl in the Tower, but there’s far less of the “evils of Christianity” subtext that made The Bear and the Nightingale sometimes uncomfortable reading.Traditional boyar dressKatherine Arden weaves a magical tapestry of medieval Russia, but she doesn’t shy away from the harsh facts of life in those times.
if ‘the bear and the nightingale’ is a comforting fairytale read right before falling asleep, then ‘the girl in the tower’ is an epic legend that is shared among friends sat around a fireplace.
both are tales, rich in wonder and mystery; but where the first books strength is in its quiet enchantment, this sequel draws on its sense of daring adventure.
not only does it shed more light on things that were hinted at in the first book, but there is plenty of action and intrigue built within this story.
the book felt genuine and faithful to the tales of old, but wow.
this book was a masterpiece in its own right.
the book is a perfect balance of classical and modern storytelling; descriptions pretty and poetic:-Men lived too near the bone in winter to bother with things that did not concern them.-Her fear was a wild thing's fear when the dogs are running.heroine feminist and fierce:Sudden anger burned out Vasya's gathering hurt.
it’s not that modern.***********************************in what is certainly the most difficult decision anyone has ever had to make - i have been salivating for this book, and i was thrilled when i got approved to read it through netgalley at the beginning of the month, but i am only reading horror for october and i keep worrying about it over there waiting for me, thinking i am not interested in it, but i AM!
Before we enter the wilderness-with Vasilisa Petrovna...(Vasya/Vasilii)....we meet her older sister, Olga Vladimirova -who has two young children and a third one on the way.
I don't want to spoil the story itself --but Vasya with her mare - traveling - and putting herself in dangers way - maturing day by day - and all the supporting characters are absolutely dazzling.
The last person I must say a HUGE THANK YOU TOO is Katherine Arden!!!!The lovely prose had me STOP- RE-READ -and......BASK-with PLEASURE!!!
-- Sons and Daughters will love these books too!!
Disguised as a boy, she wanders the forest, set to become a traveler and explore the world she was once kept away from.
Unfortunately, the world can be dangerous and the people cruel even to a boy.If you found The Bear and the Nightingale marvellous, you should have no problem being swept away by this sequel.
I wasn’t sure why these creatures pertaining to the fantasy world were even in it, but now I understand everything better and am all the more eager to read the conclusion because I know the ending will be glorious.But of course, part of me never wants it to end and the other part wishes to become Vasya the Brave!
Either way I fell in love with book one, eagerly awaited this book two, fell into both with immense interest and joy.Medieval Russia, superstitions at the forefront, many believe but few can see these creatures of ancient myth.
Vasya is one, but she is also a young woman who refuses to slot herself into the limited role available to women.
Arden has done such a magnificent job, creating this time period and inserting the reader into the magic that lives all around us if we could only see.
There is magic, family, folklore, the arising power of the church, battles, adventure, political uprisings so much.
Every time you take one path, you must live with the memory of the other: of a life left unchosenAn adventure Vasya started in book 1 continues in The Girl from the Tower.
None of them were a hero; they had struggles on their paths and it was clear book 2 would continue with the question: what will become of Vasya, Morozko, Konstantin, Sasha and Olga?
Of course, without a doubt, for Vasya it was a new experience as she started as a naive country girl who wanted to see the world, and it's quite understandable that the level of intrigue suits Vasya's perception of the world at the given moment.
Most fairy tales were born this way, through stories told generation after generation, and then eventually put to print.
The original versions of these fairy tales, the ones that we were typically raised on, are not the Disneyfied ones that we think of, cleansed of sex, rape, incest, murder, but still contain a darker side.
To balance that darker side, typically there is the use of enchantment, and often, folkloric characters – fairies, witches, and such, fantasy.
As a child, I loved the fairy tales I was read, and then not much later read on my own.
"Close your eyes," he said into her ear. "Come with me."She did so, and suddenly she saw what he saw. She was the wind, the clouds gathering in the smoky sky, the thick snow of deep winter. She was nothing. She was everything. ✨ I wish I had thought of a way to create a magical gem in which I'd have kept all the beautiful words because let's face it, my ability to write a review has been seriously fading these past months.I want to say that Katherine Arden's writing is so gorgeous and enchantin
✨ I wish I had thought of a way to create a magical gem in which I'd have kept all the beautiful words because let's face it, my ability to write a review has been seriously fading these past months.I want to say that Katherine Arden's writing is so gorgeous and enchanting that its brilliance inspired me to delve into my forgotten idioms but today, more than ever, my fingers hover above the keyboard and I don't know how to express my love?Where are chierti when we need them?Oh, well, I'll do my best.✨ The Girl in the Tower begins right after the events of The Bear and the Nightingale, when our beloved Vasya must escape her village, failing which she'd end in a convent, married, or worst if the frightened whispers and the accusations of witchcraft take precedence.
The things I loved, loved, loved about the first part of this series are still all here:- brilliant characters with believable interactions,- sibling relationships that are complicated and true,- an atmosphere so all-encompassing that it makes you forget your own surroundings,- wonderfully immersive descriptions,- a surprising and wonderful way to construct sentences that just sound like nobody else (in the best possible way) while still retaining that fairy-talesque rhythm that makes this series so readable,- an understanding of the essence of fairy-tales that shows itself in the brilliant way the familiar tropes are both used and subverted, and- the wonderful setting of Medieval Russia.- And many more things.From the very first chapter I was fully immersed in the story as we follow Vasya fleeing her home town after the events of the last book lest she be burned as a witch.
5 stars for this beautiful, medieval Russian fantasy!The story of Vasya continues! Orphaned, and exiled from her village in the woods following her fathers death, she longs to see the world, and to not be put in the traditional role of wife, that would be for young girls of her age. She takes off on her magical horse, dressed as a boy. There are such dynamic characters in this story. I was very taken by this second book of the trilogy!A very grateful thank you to Random House for sending this book to me!
She reaches for a new identity and role, despite being exhorted to make other choices by Morozko, the Winter King, the death and frost demon, her monk brother, Sasha, and her sister, Olya, pregnant with her third child.
Vasya joins her cousin, the Grand Prince of Moscow, Sasha and Kasyan Lutovich to find the bandits.
An impenetrable shadow hangs over Moscow and the Khans want their contribution, the Grand Prince faces threats, political intrigue, a web of deceit and lies, and where the spirits and guardians hang by a merest of threads.
But this is not a girl who is going to accept the traditions and restrictions of Russian society, religion, or her family; she is bold and fearless, she needs to be free and she wants more for herself.
And boy do we want more for her, rarely have I cheered on a girl so much.
The foundation in both Russian history and folk lore has once again been extensively researched by Arden, illustrated in spectacular detail throughout the book, and infusing the tale with both darkness and enchantment.
So this is how one follows up a great book with a great sequel...
while reading my mickey-taking brain cells were fully awake, yet I can find no reason to criticize this book, except for its name, which has the word 'Girl' in its title.The story progresses seamlessly.
Vasya does the type of things that even the most rebellious of princesses would balk at.
She wants to be free, and so she disguises herself as a guy and makes her way into the world.Only there's a twist.
I'll let you read the book and find out for yourself.
insanely and obscenely entertained when reading this book.
In the sequel, Vasya truly begins to grow up, and her errors and imperfections fuel the plot's trials and tribulations that make for character building for her, exciting and nail-biting reading for us.Overall, Arden is able to take a beautifully told, enchanting story of The Bear and the Nightingale, and present a worthy successor in The Girl in the Tower, one that lives up to the excellence of its predecessor but establishing its own darker, more dangerous tone, rapidly expanding the historical and fantastical worldbuilding while ratcheting up the tension and adventure.
Re-read 2018 thoughts:Morozko is my book husband.
Everyone deserves an older brother like Sasha.Original review:Ohh guys, this beautiful book.
It was everything I hoped for and more after falling in love with The Bear and the Nightingale earlier this year.
It brings into sharp focus many things only hinted at in BEAR, and is packed with action, intrigue, and yes, even some R O M A N C E (I can't spoil the surprise but I must say, I'm a happy little toaster strudel).
You can read my full review on my blog!Thank you to the publisher for providing a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.
This was an excellent follow up to the first book!
I liked it just the same, or maybe better!
There was more of Vasya in this one, which I was excited to see.
Nothing stands in her way when she wants to do something, and sometimes this can cause consequences.
It all makes her appear more human, though.
The sibling bond between her, Sasha, and Olga felt perfectly real.
Loved them!
My main pet peeve was that there wasn't enough of the Frost Demon.
I want to know more about Morozko because he is amazing!
I can't wait for the next book!!
While reading Bear and the Nightingale I was charmed with the story and Vasya and couldn’t wait to dive into book two.
It started in an interesting twist, but when it came to the new Vasya and her role…… I couldn’t get into Vasya’s new role fully as it felt like a weakly based one, like an unfinished painting.
After some time, the incredible Vasya, I fell in love in book 1, was back.
The story came back to the suspenseful part with twists where I found myself sitting on an edge of my seat and couldn’t stop reading.
The story of Vasya continues as she makes her way through the forest and to Moscow on her great adventure.
She must dress like and present herself as a boy to travel unhindered.
Vasya kept me angry through a lot of it.
Yes, she is her own woman, she's independent and strong, but if only she showed a little thought before she plunged in, I would not be so exasperated with the character.
She continually places herself in the center of attention, even as she is trying to pass as a boy.She does get reunited with her beloved brother and sister in this story and we learn a little bit more about her ancestors.
This book delved more into political unease and action, however the Russian folklore we were introduced to in the first book does appear and it was such a treat for the imagination.The first 50 pages of the book I was thinking that this wasn't for me- it focused on what was happening in Moscow with political unrest and bandits that burn villages and take girls.
I found that this book invoked emotions such as dread, anger and wonder (as well as some others!) whether it was because Vasya experienced them or because her circumstances deserved those emotions, you find yourself involved with her story.
This book was such an exciting read and stayed true to the magical literary fairytale introduced in the first book.I cannot wait for the third book...
Beneath the trees swaying in the darkness, peering from behind cringing shadows, inhuman eyes are watching and waiting.
Something evil is stirring in medieval Russia, burning villages, snatching girl children and spiriting them away leaving no trace.
Beware a bird with a woman's face, a priest with a bitter soul, a tower made of bones, and a staircase without an end.
After fleeing from the only options given her - marrying or joining a nunnery - Vasya is a traveler now.
Still seeing what others cannot, bringing faded things into sharp relief.
Copy furnished by the publisher in exchange for a review.
after book one, I HAVE to read this book. immediately.
Everything I loved from the first novel - the atmospheric setting of medieval Russia, the richness and depth of characters, and a strong background rooted in Russian folklore were developed and expanded upon to make one of the best reads of the year.The Girl in the Tower continues to follow Vasya, as she struggles to find herself now she's free from her strict father and the rules she has been made to follow.
Honestly, I think I'm a little bit in love.Vasya has also grown so much as a character since we first saw her in The Bear and the Nightingale, and it's great to see her develop slowly.
The second book in the trilogy and every bit as good as the first!Again Arden serves up big helpings of Russian folklore and fairy tales and adds a dash of her own magic to the mix.
Vasya is still the same great character, trying to avoid her fate of marriage or a convent in a time when, for women, there was nothing else.
Tension too when Vasya is in danger which is a lot of the time!
Still the best moments are those between Vasya and the Winter King, where for a while it did seem romance was developing.
I guess Book three will have an answer and I am looking forward to it very much.
5 Reasons To Read The Girl In The Tower ★★★★✬ 4.5 starsYou can read the full and formatted review here on my blog.Reason #1.  Vasya Is A Great Model Of Female Power Vasya is such an amazing woman! Sure, she's a tomboy, she's rash and doesn't quite think things through, but also? She's brave, she's daring, and through her character and her experiences, we get to see the obstacles women had to face before our times. I have always known that life for women was tough, back in the day. We all know t
5 Reasons To Read The Girl In The Tower
Had to put the book down for a day or two!Reason #4.
You'd think that if Vasya, a strong and fighting woman, is in the spotlight here, this book says that the strength is only in fighting?
Olga displays incredible strength in the face of adversity, and she only bears that kind of life because that's the way she can protect everyone she loves, keep her responsibilities.
I know I loved this book and it was very easy for me to follow.
