https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1149370.Katharine_the_Virgin_Widow
Jean Plaidy was my absolute fave in historical fiction those many years ago when I discovered Henry and Eleanor (Peter and Kate) in Lion in Winter and went absolutely Plantagenet-crazy throughout high school.
As time has passed, I've noticed the quirks of Plaidy's writing in recent years (mainly the dryness and repetition of the prose) and consequently she's no longer my favorite when it comes to a good historical that is light on the romance and meatier with True Historical Factz.
I have no idea if Henry VII actually planned to marry the widow Katherine, or pursued a marriage to Juana after Elizabeth croaked, but it made good drama.
Audiobook #246
I just don't think that in years to come I will remember actually reading this book, because the events are already fading from my mind.
And although this isn't my favourite part of the Tudor era to read about...I know that this book can't use that as an excuse.
But this was pretty forgettable, and I don't know if I would read another book by this author if they are all going to be like this one.
I enjoy reading ‘Tudor’ historical fiction and was pleasantly surprised when this author showed up on a reading list that I am trying to get through (my last reading list for this year).
It was written well, but it just seemed like a regurgitation of facts.
And there seemed to be a lot of repetition of the same facts as if I had forgotten those facts since I just read it in the last chapter.The author did give full descriptions on everyone in that small span of time that it covered.
A most excellent way to learn a bit about the history of the British monarchy! Thank goodness for Plaidy doing all the research and then putting it in an easy to read and understand form for the rest of us!! Read it on the heels of "To Hold the Crown" so some seemed a bit redundant, but I guess history doesn't change, even if the title of a novel does!
This second one – and the two that follow it – are really sequels from the Daughters of Spain series.In consequence, a huge portion of Book One is retold in Book Two. Book One follows on from the Plantagenet series, and it’s a shame that the author didn’t write up to the point where she starts this novel.We do, however, see more events from Katharine of Aragon’s viewpoint in this story, along with her maidservents’ activities, plus what’s going on in Spain.Katharine’s sister Juana is the most well-developed and engaging character.
Plaidy breaks up the story of Katherine into three books and this one focuses on the period of betrothal, doomed marriage, and endless forgotten waiting the young woman was subjected to.
To pad the story, she focuses on the trials of Katherine's family, specifically her father Ferdinand and sister Juana, the "mad" queen.
While this is all interesting and relevant to what happened to Katherine, it was an unexpected detour in the story for me.
There are other side stories regarding some of Katherine's household members and reveal the motives behind their actions.
For me these side stories made me impatient to get back to Katherine.
Review - Possibly the best novel I've ever read on Katherine of Aragon, particularly on her early life, before her marriage to Henry VIII.
If there was anything that would get me interested in the actual history of Katherine of Aragon, this would be it, as this early period is what made her into the amazing queen she was.Genre?
- Katherine of Aragon / Maria de Salinas / Henry VII / Henry VIII / Prince Arthur Tudor / Elizabeth of York / Princess Mary / Princess Margaret / Isabella I of Castile / Ferdinand II of Aragon / Philip of Burgundy / Juana the MadSetting?
Well writtenGreat insight and details about Katherine of Aragon and her life before her marriage to Henry VIII. The lives of her parents beyond "the Christopher Columbus" story, and the fate of her siblings, especially Juana, was well written and gave even more insight to the political ambitions and machinations of Europe's nobility.
Following on from "Daughters of Spain", this book covers the life of Katherine of Aragon from her voyage to England to her marriage to Henry VIII. It covers much the same period as the chronologically first book in the Tudor series "Uneasy Lies the Head", but from the point of view of Katherine. Another steady historical novel.
slowjust not for me.....slow but descriptive and pleasant...no real complaint.....maybe just know the story too well. Not sorry I bought it......would recommend for any Tudor history fan.
Good story well told but unsatisfactorily ended. It wasn’t all about Katharine’s life but more about events and people surrounded her, and her story didn’t ended when she married Henry VIII, however as the title of the book is ‘Katharine, the Virgin Widow,’ I guess it warrants the abrupt ending.
A beautiful and mostly accurate telling of the life of Katherine, Henry VIII first wife. I listened to this on audio book and the accents were very good. A series worth reading/hearing for some history with your entertainment.
No review at this time
Plaidy is a excellent author of history and historical fiction. Katherine, the once bride of both Henry VIII and his brother Arthur is a fascinating read.
Different point of view from other books I've read of this period.
Had to work hard to finish this one.
Wonderful Series!
My pet subject of the Tudors.Mostly enjoyable, but the narrative seemed to be beefed out by events in Spain which didn't add much to the story of Katharine
I rarely read historical fiction and this reminded me as to why that is.This is the tale of Katherine of Aragon, beginning with her departure from her family in Spain and arriving in England to be married to Prince Arthur, son Henry VII and finishing with her wedding to Henry VII.
I find when you're reading about people like this it's very limiting as we know what happened and there's no scope for character development outside of what we know already.
That is not considered at all necessary."This sequel to Uneasy Lies The Head traces the melancholy life of Katharine of Aragon following the death of her first husband Prince Arthur, right up until her marriage to Henry VIII.
Despite being betrothed to Henry VIII several years before, there were twists and turns along the way for Katharine before she got to the glittering marriage ceremony - and her betrothal looked rather shaky several times; especially after the outspoken and brusque Fuensalida became involved.
There are two reasons why I didn't give it five stars: 1) It was a little slow and I may not have finished it if I wasn't listening to it as an audiobook.
2) There was one scene probably a third of the way through that went a little too far in description of the post-wedding rituals of the time.
The biggest thing I walked away with was respect toward the princesses of the time.
More often than not, they were sent to marry greedy royals who lacked virtue in every respect and they were made absolutely miserable.
Struggling for money, she endures a long wait to find out if she can marry the new Prince of Wales, the young Henry.Another good Tudor read, similar in story to Philippa Gregory's 'The Constant Princess'.
It is pretty shocking the way Henry VII and her own father didn't seem to give a damn whether she lived or died, heaping humiliation on her as she struggled to feed and clothe her household.
This book finishes with Henry and Katharine being crowned King and Queen, when she was happy and looking forward to a new life.
The first in the trilogy about Katherine of Aragon, the daughter of Ferdinand and Isabella, king and queen of a united Spain.
What is does detail is the political intrigue and skullduggery between kings, queens, ambassadors, bishops, countries and just about everyone else.Henry VII had obviously got rid of most of those with a claim on his crown and England was relatively stable.
Spain was split into Aragon and Castille, but at the time was united by the marriage of Katherine's parents, but there were plenty of people waiting in the wings ready to stake their claim or the claim of their children.This is political espionage at its best and it's mainly all true.
This historical fiction novel focuses on Catherine of Aragon, known today as Henry VIII's first wife who he divorced forcing him to break with Rome.
Therefore it is believed that Arthur's death left Katherine a 'virgin widow', and, stuck in England with no husband, whilst her father in law uses her as a pawn with her parents, she lives for years in near-poverty not knowing whether she will eventually marry Henry Prince of Wales or continue as the Virgin Widow for the rest of her existence.This is an interesting novel about Catherine of Aragon and her early years in England, with a lot of historical fact.
I recommend this novel if you want something detailing the years just before Henry VIII became king or are interested in Henry VIII's first queen.
This book is the second of Jean Plaidy’s Tudor Series, telling the story of Katharine of Aragon from the time she left Spain at 14 through her marriage to Henry VIII.
It was Henry’s frail older brother Arthur that Katharine had come to wed, but Plaidy follows the theory that the marriage was never consummated before Arthur died of illness shortly thereafter.
This was not covered in another book on Katharine I’d read, and I found it interesting.
(view spoiler)[ It was sad to see that Juana was treated so poorly by her handsome husband that she sunk into madness.
Although the story predominately focuses on Katharine of Aragon, Plaidy also explores the lives of some of the key players around her at the time.
Most stories focus on Katharine's marriage to Henry VIII so it was refreshing for this one to concentrate on the period of her marriage to Arthur and the interim before her marriage to Henry.
Plaidy explores some fascinating stories from the other characters, such as the story of Katharine's sister Juana and her descent into madness.
This is a great book, from a wonderfully storyteller.
It's a little dated but this doesn't detract from the book.
I wish this would fall out of the Tudor historical fiction, as well as Richard III being in love with his niece, ok, thanks.It's really hard to find good Tudor books; a true needle in the haystack where the facts and personalities are there, yet it is entertaining as well.
It's kind of sad when I'm able to prove wrong facts, and this isn't my specialty; I've done no intense research to write a book, and still know more somehow than many Tudor authors portray in their books.
“I see that all traitors should be hanged.” ~ Henry VIII, as a child.
Such foreshadowing.
I Love how Henry only wants to marry Katherine because his father does not want him to.
And marries her to spite the speculation that he will marry to France or other powerful countries in Europe and not to Katherine.
Her sister Juana is a much more pitiful creature then Katherine could ever be.
Pitiful creature who worships a man who mistreats her so and cherishes his dead body.
First Henry VII and Elizabeth of York, Ferdinand and Isabella, and Juana and Phillip.
Here begins the fascinating story of Queen Katharine who was undoubtedly the purest and most deserving of Henry’s wives.
The Queen that Katharine will become is created here, as she is pulled into politics and learns what will be expected of her, and waits for her turn to shine.Jean Plaidy writes with an authority that can be felt, a feeling of historical accuracy and intimacy with the characters.
Her detailed descriptions of characters, place and historical events, as well as the sense of individual perspectives, is entertaining.
This book, and the 2 that follow it, telling the story of Queen Katharine, were totally engrossing.
