https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15990969-ten-tiny-breaths
I have two copies of this book on my bookshelf.
But I felt bad that I was neglecting the other copy, so I decided to read it too, but I started with the last word and read the whole book backwards.
I wouldn't recommend doing that, it doesn't really make much sense.
And it takes longer to read the book back to front than it does front to back, because our brains aren't used to working in reverse.
If you read this book, which I think you should, I would highly recommend reading it front to back.
"Listen......,are you breathing just a little and calling it a life?" How long has it been since you've read a fairytale? Let me tell you about the one I came across recently.......a fairytale about redemption and forgiveness, about love and life, a fairytale about healing, about second chances..... in a land not that far away lived a girl called Kacey. She was a girl with auburn hair and light blue eyes - the princess of our story.She lived in happy times, in a happy palace of warmth, emotions
She was a girl with auburn hair and light blue eyes - the princess of our story.She lived in happy times, in a happy palace of warmth, emotions, and sunshine......But one day on her way to home with her family, best friend and boyfriend, bantering with her Dad something happened, something truly terrible, horrifying....and she had no idea of the fate awaiting them......BANG!!
I’m falling.Falling backward into the deep, dark water.It’s pouring over me, into me, through my mouth, up my nose, filling my lungs, seizing my will to breathe, to live.I accept it.
I think I’m about to read a love/hate romance story when what I get is a mystery book.
I didn’t connect to her, because broken heroes and heroines are very hit or miss for me, but I dare say I wouldn’t mind reading another book with her in it.As for *trumpets* Trent, the hot and mysterious guy with gorgeous blue eyes from the laundry room, I’m going to say that I’m not displeased.
Of course, I predicted the plot twist, so that’s always a down, but I didn’t mind him… Thing is, he’s pretty much like every other New Adult broken hero I’ve encountered before, except for the fact that he carries a little less of a heavy pack of anger, self-pity and self-destruction with him.
Audio re-read 11/13/15. This book! Still love it just as much as the first time <3  Just breathe. Ten tiny breaths... Seize them. Feel them. Love them. This story is absolutely beautiful. “Our past isn’t who we are. I’m me and you’re you and that’s who we need to be.”This is Kacey’s story Twenty year old Kacey and her little sister Livie move to Miami, far away from their aunt and uncle in Michigan. A car accident several years ago took Kacey’s parents, best friend, and boyfriend from her and
Twenty year old Kacey and her little sister Livie move to Miami, far away from their aunt and uncle in Michigan.
Trent is Kacey and Livie’s neighbor.
Kacey starts to feel things for Trent that she hasn’t felt for years.
I feel like I’ve come up for my first gasp of air after being under water for years.
Loved Trent Kacey also meets another neighbor, Storm and her daughter Mia. Storm was wonderful!
(hide spoiler)]This is a story that will stay with you long after you read it.
My heart broke for Kacey and Trent.
4.5 stars  “Just breathe,” my mom would say.“Ten tiny breaths …Seize them.Feel them.Love them.”   My Trent casting^^  This is a story about a girl who was drowning in the pain of her shattered life and the boy with a dark past of his own who pulled her out and helped her to breath, to live, and to love again.
I'll take everything that comes with it."  This book doesn’t ease you in to the story, it just plunges you right in and submerges you in its beautiful and spiraling journey of pain, horrific loss and heart ache, and then it pulls out back up, until you feel the forgiveness and healing the characters have reached.
Why not deep?Well our Kacey asks the same exact questions.They don't work.But she takes them anyways.That's a little bit of her mom left with her.The story starts with 20 year old Kacey and her 15 year old sister Livie arriving in Miami.After the accident which resulted in their parent's death along with Kacey's best friend Jenny and boyfriend Billy,their custody had been handed over to their aunt and uncle.But when one drunken night their uncle makes a pass at Livie,Kacey packs up their suitcases and they come to Miami to start a new life.There in their new apartment they meet their neighbours Storm and her five year old daughter Mia.Also Kacey meets with their sexy,beautiful and smoldering hot neighbour Trent.No one looking at these two beautiful people will ever guess how very damaged they are.The Kacey before the accident is dead and buried.Now all she has is pain and anger and hatred.Which she channels out during kickboxing.Yes,she can kick some serious ass.But unbeknownst to her,somehow Mia,Storm,Trent manage to creep in.And nothing is more vulnerable than LOVE.
"A hissing sound..Bright lights...And then it all just...stops. And I'm vaguely aware that something is very wrong. "Mom? Dad?" There's no answer. It's hard to breathe..."  "Just breathe," my mom would say. "Ten tiny breaths..." ~ Seize them.~ Feel them. ~ Love them.  And that is exactly what Kacey does every time she feels like the world has fallen form underneath her feet and she just can't breath any more...Ten tiny breaths is a remarkable story about loss, love, friendship and about losing e
And that is exactly what Kacey does every time she feels like the world has fallen form underneath her feet and she just can't breath any more...Ten tiny breaths is a remarkable story about loss, love, friendship and about losing everything you have in life and learning how to pick up the pieces to make it whole again...
That is what you'll have to find out for yourself by reading this wonderful story...Ten Tiny Breaths follows the journey of a girl named Kacey Cleary--When we first meet Kacey, she's not the same person she used to be four years ago...
Old MacKacey had a farm. E-I-E-I-O. And on this farm she had a Trent. E-I-E-I-O.With a wink, wink, here and a smirk, smirk, there. Here a wink, there a wink, everywhere a wink, wink.Old MacKacey had a farm. E-I-E-I-OOOOOOOOOOHHHHHHHHHHH...  2.5 stars. Sleepy Stacia after a long weekend = nothing in the bag of tricks other than some random thoughts. I'll avoid non-tagged major spoilers of specific outcome-revealing details, but there will probably be dancing around general plot points of the bo
(hide spoiler)]*Stacia lays her head down on the desk and tries out this 'ten tiny breaths' technique as shown in the book*I felt like the 'twist' was unnecessary and turned a touching story about one person's emotional recovery into something wrong, twisted, and useful only for the purpose of shock value.
Why couldn't (view spoiler)[Trent have just been a normal guy who helped Kacey learn to start living again?
If Storm (or Livie) had helped Kacey start to put the pieces back together instead of Trent, this could have been a "wow" book for me.
This book was a fucking mess. There was NOTHING about it that I enjoyed. The main character was a bitch, the entire book's premise was unrealistic and disgusting, the romance was dry, rushed, and unrealistic, there was slut shaming, etc. NOTHING in this book made sense. I am appalled someone read this and went "!!!! wow!!!!! let's publish this!!!!!" the storyline was so predictable and cheesy and the relationship was SO gross and toxic, and the entire construction of this book was a trainwreck. WOW I hated it. I can't believe I made myself finish it.
What blew my mind was that this book was a fast paced easy read despite the trauma, heartache, loss, and pain.
I loved how their relationship wasn't rushed, but that's exactly what made Trent's "You are so very beautiful" comment seem a little out of place...awkward even.
The other mind blowing experience of Ten Tiny Breaths was the secondary characters.
All. Caring about these characters helped make this such a fast read.
I would have loved to see a little more out of the ending (specifically Trent and Kacey's beginning...together), but again, I think it was more about me not wanting to let these characters go.
Stage One-Comfortably Numb  Stage Two-Denial  Stage Three-Resistance  Stage Four-Acceptance  Stage Five-Dependence  Stage Six-Withdrawal  Stage Seven-Breakdown Stage Eight-Recovery Stage Nine-ForgivenessAfter a tragic accident that took the lives of her parents,best friend and boyfriend Kacey changed!Before she was a sweet girl..Now she is a mess.She sunk into the world of drugs,alcohol,sex.She doesn't cry and she doesn't let people in.She can’t stand the feel of hands because they remind her of death.She use boxing to forget her past.
I've just read another phenomenal book!I picked Ten Tiny Breaths because of its postive reviews on Goodreads and I'm so happy that I made a great decision.
The story was handled and delivered well by the author.Ten Tiny Breaths tells us a story about the main character Kacey Cleary whose life has changed ever since the day her parents, her boyfriend, and her bestfriend died in a car accident.
Although the writing style of the author didn't feel as captivating to me at first, I enjoyed the book as I've read further because of the surprisingly peculiar effect it had in me.Kacey is a great character.
Ok so Ten Tiny Breaths follows the story of Kacey Cleary, a girl who is trying to get her life back on track after a traumatic accident.
Towards the middle of the story I started to like her a lot more, but by the end I was hating her again.
At first when the story started from the way Kacey talked to her, to the way the author portrayed her, I assumed both girls were a lot younger.
Something serious happens between the two characters toward mid-end and all ya boy has to do is say "whoops my B" and Kacey is back in love with him.
“Just breathe...Ten tiny breaths ...Seize them...Feel them...Love them...”BreathHow many deaths can you bear before you get drowned?Will you ever recover from your past?KaceyKacey lost her parents , her best friend and her boyfriend in a car accident.Since then she was living at her aunt's house .After an incident Kacey decided that it wasn't safe for her and her sister to live there and they ran away.They moved to a new town.They started a new life."Our pasts isnt who we are.I'm me and you are you and that's who we need to be."There they met Storm and her five year old daughter Mia.Livvie and Mia started to spend a lot of time together and Kacey after all these years she found someone who she could rely on.TrentHe was her hot neighbor.He wanted to be with her from the first moment but whenever he got a chance he wouldn't grab it.He wanted things between them to be real.“I want to make you smile.
My Kacey and Trent: "The blue floors, the rusty old machines, the walls, everything around me vanishes under the weight if his gaze as it strips me of my protective bitch coat, yanking it clean off my body, levaing me bare and vulnerable in second." After tragical death of Kacey's dearest ones and after her younger sister was almost molested by their uncle, Kacey decides to act as Livie's guardian and run away with her to Miami to start over again. But after everything Kacey had to go through, s
Until she meets her new neighbour, good looking and charming Trent, who knows exactly how to get through that protective wall of hers...Ten Tiny Breaths is one of those stories that after reading blurb you think you know exactly what it is going to be about but once you start reading you do not have an idea what hit you.
Ten Tiny Breaths is book about ways of dealing with death of close person and overcoming the trauma.
Ten Tiny Breaths is about Trent, main male character who got my full attention from the very fist moment he appeared in this story.
I actually didn't like how the book depicted them leaving home - what with some drug induced manipulations and whatnot, but I figured for the sake of the story, I'd follow it.Kacey really turned out to be a horrible protagonist in more ways than one, basically coming across in spurts as the female version of Travis Maddox from Beautiful Disaster.
The only time I think I actually felt for Kacey's coming to terms was when her sister Livie pretty much told her to buck up and that she was tired of going through the same things that her older sister put her through.
This depth I am talking about will surely connect with everybody because we all know life sometimes can be hard, but we must find a reason to keep going.So, taking into consideration the above info, let me tell you something about the story.
Trent at first sight is perfect, caring so much about Kacey and making her feel special, but there are a lot of things we don't know about him and as the plot progresses, be prepared to be surprised and why not, cry.
“Just breathe,” my mom would say. “Ten tiny breaths…Seize them. Feel them. Love them.”     What the hell does a tiny breath do? Why not a deep breath? Why not three or five or twenty? I’d scream and she’d simply smile her little smile. I didn’t understand then.I do now.   This isn’t your average love story.This isn’t about how a beautiful girl meets the beautiful boy and then they go off into the sunset and live a beautiful life.You’re going to cry. And you’re going to scream. And you’re going
This isn’t your average love story.This isn’t about how a beautiful girl meets the beautiful boy and then they go off into the sunset and live a beautiful life.You’re going to cry.
And you’re going to scream.
And words still fall parachuteless from her mouth.But as far as she’s concerned, she died in a car wreck caused by a drunk driver.♦ The same car wreck that killed her mom, dad, best friend, and boyfriend.
Ten tiny breaths.Sieze them.Feel them.
My Kacey and TrentFantastic book! I was in a huge book hangover from my last read and I was worried that whatever I read next would be difficult, but Ten Tiny Breaths was just what I needed.It was a really easy read. I flew through it in about twelve hours and it was relatively pain free.The characters were great. Trent was impossible not to fall in love with from the very beginning. He was sexy and seductive, with his panty dropping laundromat introductions... I was hooked.  I think I'm going t
Trent was impossible not to fall in love with from the very beginning.
He's a fantastic, gorgeous, adorable hero and I'm officially adding Trent Emerson to my ever growing collection of book boyfriends.
"I want to make you smile.
Whatever makes you smile and laugh more.
After all, a book where the heroine spends the entire time rebuffing the hero is no fun for anyone.
There were some great surrounding characters that really made this book what it was...
But ultimately, this book is a moving story of forgiveness, coping through adversity and love.
“Just breathe,” “Ten tiny breaths… Seize them.Feel them.Love them.”   Ten Tiny Breaths is about  Kacey Cleary  and the   Stages of her Life    Stage One ~  Comfortably Numb   After a tragic drunk driving accident that took the lives of her parents, best friend, and boyfriend, Kacey became an Ice Queen.
After that, Trent became a regular at the bar, always watching her, and Kacey starts flirting with him too.
Stage Six ~  Withdrawal    Trent's gone.
You have to find out what happens next.I'll leave you with that, and the few stages of Kacey's life.
And I want a sister like her :)And of course, Trent.
Final rating: 4.75/5 stars  “I want to make you smile. For real. Always. We’re going to go for dinners, and see movies, and walk on the beach. We’ll go hang-gliding, or bungee jumping, or whatever you want to do. Whatever makes you smile and laugh more.” His fingers toy with my bottom lip. “Let me make you smile.”  Wow. Wow. Wow. At first, i wasn't impressed with this book. I didn't connect with the main character - in fact, she pissed me off. I didn't find the story interesting, felt that it ne
I didn't find the story interesting, felt that it needed more, and wondered if it was going to continue being like it whole book.
First half of the book left me wondering - Why?
Like i said before, i didn't like Kacey for the first half of the book.
Just like Kacey does.
Just like Kacey does.
Just like Kacey does.
He begins to fall in love in Kacey, her each move, each smile, her craziness.
there were so many characters in this book who are amazing.
And i am glad that in the end, Kacey forgave him.
”Ten tiny breaths...Seize them. Feel them. Love them.” In an attempt not to swoon all over this review (I LOVED everything about this book!!!) or give anything away, I'll try to keep it simple. This story takes you on a journey to Miami with Kacey and her sister, Livie. We take each step with Kacey as she slowly walks through her grief and numbness to living and feeling. ”I’m not Kacey Cleary anymore. I’m an empty shell who cracks inappropriate jokes and feels nothing. I’m a Kacey imposter.” ~
This story takes you on a journey to Miami with Kacey and her sister, Livie.
We take each step with Kacey as she slowly walks through her grief and numbness to living and feeling.
I’m a Kacey imposter.”
~ KaceyTrent’s feelings for Kacey on his quest for her love and smiles had me swoony!
"I want to make you smile.
~Trent
~Trent
I'm broken." Trent squeezes me close to him.
Give me your heart, Kacey.
~TrentThis is a story about love, loss, healing, forgiveness and rebirth.
This is a definite reread story for me.
: Ten Tiny Breaths by K.A. Tucker "I want to make you smile. For real. Always. We’re going to go for dinners, see movies, and walk on the beach. We’ll go hang-gliding, or bungee jumping, or whatever you want to do. Whatever makes you smile and laugh more. Let me make you smile." This book was recommended to me by so many readers and everyone was raving about it, it had so much hype surrounding it. When I decided to see what the fuss was about I naturally had high expectations that I tried really
After the tragic event her aunt who was a bible fanatic got custody of Kacey and her little sister Livie.Kacey suffered from severe PTSD (Post Traumatic Stress Disorder) and at first tried to cope by using drugs, drinking and being promiscuous after that didn’t work, she found a more effective way which was kickboxing at the gym.
And that’s where the book starts; they rent an apartment in Miami, where they meet Nora AKA Storm a single mother to an adorable 5 year old, Trent the hot mysterious neighbor and Tanner the landlord and they form a little family.Surprisingly it was a really fast paced book; I finished it in one sitting.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ ^^^^This one did it for me. In case we haven’t yet met . . . .  For real – but I do try and pick out books that I won't hate. I got denied a reader copy of this book waaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaay back in the Fall of ’13 and promptly forgot all about it. Then a few weeks ago I was stalking her Facebook page noticed Tarryn Fisher had just read/recommended He Will Be My Ruin by K.A. Tucker. Of course since I had used up all of my librarian
Of course since I had used up all of my librarian requests making sure the pornography collection was well-stocked, that book wasn’t available.
Fast forward a few years and Kasey and Livie hightailing it to Miami after their creeper of an uncle “accidentally” climbed into bed with Livie.
Okay, it’s NA so panties be dropping after a whole lotta angst and in fade-to-black style, but they still be dropping.
Chick meets dude in the laundry room, immediately runs away because she has some wicked PTSD that she’s never dealt with due to watching nearly everyone she loved die around and she’s scurrrrred of feeling the feels but then fast-forward a couple of weeks later to .
TEN TINY BREATHS by K.A TUCKER is a New Adult novel that is beautifully written, emotional and ends up as a feel good read which I thought was quite good!
I found TEN TINY BREATHS was easy to follow along with the storyline and all the secondary characters involved.I don't normally read romance novels but this was definitely a nice change from all the Thrillers & Suspense novels that I normally read.
The ENDING was quite touching, satisfying and very pleasing for a very pleasant reading experience.At the end of the book I fell in love with both Kacey & Trent and all of my TEN TINY BREATHS taken throughout this novel.
They live on a small apartment just enough for them and their neighbors are warm and friendly, like Storm and her little daughter Mia. At first, Kacey is really aloof but tries her best to engage in conversations.
It seems Trent has a traumatic past and the truth might ruin Kacey again.
Talking about the past makes her vulnerable but for the sake of the people who care and love her, she conquered by seeking help in order to forgive and heal the scars that damaged her.
I love the chemistry between Kacey and Trent.
Reviewed by: Hello Beautiful Book Blog Passionate story with twists along the way. Must read for new adult romance fans. This author ranks with some of the best.  Just breathe, Kacey. Ten tiny breaths. Seize them. Feel them. Love them. My first book by K.A. Tucker. I always like to start at the beginning with an author when I can. That way you can see how far they’ve come as an artist. Am I alone in that or does everyone like to do that?This starts out as your typical romance. Girl moves to new
I loved that Kacey wasn’t your typical herione and didn’t follow what people thought she should be doing.
She was so helpful with getting Kacey a decent paying job and making sure her and Livie were taken care of.Trent Emerson is the perfect love interest.
He and Kacey are bound together and I love that.
Trent and Kacey harbor a very special connection and I don’t think that should be taken lightly.Kacey Cleary’s story is filled with cheese and unbelievable senarios, however Tucker does a wonderful job of making you not care.
She is such a strong storyteller, as I was turning each page I couldn’t help but love this book.What did y’all think about this one?
Love them.”That's what Kacey's mom used to tell her to do when things got tough.
She doesn't need or want anything in her life except her sister Livie.
~KaceyWhen Kacey runs into her new neighbor Trent she can't help but to want him.
After a scare in her apartment and Trent comes to the rescue Kacey thinks things are heating up between her and her sexy neighbor.
Trent wants Kacey to open up about her past.
I promise you, I will,” ~TrentI loved Trent.
O.O!When Trents past catches up with him my heart was breaking for both him and Kacey.
Things take a turn for the better with Kacey and Livie moving to Miami and getting to know their neighbors, Storm and Mia and Trent.
And I was a bit concerned about Trent's true feelings so I was really glad that things were clarified.
Storm and her daughter, Mia, were just what Kacey and Livie needed and I really liked how their relationships developed.
After the reveal, you could really see how close Storm and Kacey had gotten and I liked how they continued their relationship.
It started off heavy and like any process, things did get better.
Love them.”♥ “I want to make you smile.
WOW. Let me get my emotions together before I write this review. But damn, this was absolutely amazing!!!!!! Epic. Perfect. Love love love it!!!!!Review coming soon!Ten Tiny Breaths....  Ten. Tiny. Breaths.One...Two...Three...Four...Five...Six...Seven...Eight...Nine...TenSeize them.Feel them.Love them.Wow, I am still in awe of this book. Amazing doesn't describe my feelings, not even close. So excuse my mumbling because this book had me all kinds of emotional.We all know how drunk driving can ef
Breaths.One...Two...Three...Four...Five...Six...Seven...Eight...Nine...TenSeize them.Feel them.Love them.Wow, I am still in awe of this book.
So excuse my mumbling because this book had me all kinds of emotional.We all know how drunk driving can effect our lives.
All because some kids weren't paying attention to the road after a night of drinking...and it cost Kacey her family...her life.
These characters really touched my heart in ways I never thought possible and when I saw what they were going through, I wanted to hug them and kiss them and take their pain away.
Character in this book left a place in my heart.
