https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11903.The_Eleventh_Hour
Don your favorite costume and join Horace the elephant in celebration of his eleventh birthday.
Bring your magnifying glass and your suspicion too, for a mystery awaits in The Eleventh Hour.
Eleven animals arrive for Horace's party, all bedecked in costume: The Pig came as an Admiral, the Zebra as a Punk.
Horace has a sweet pad, no doubt about it.
Before the eleventh hour strikes, a hideous crime occurs.
It's up to the reader to puzzle out the clues and solve the mystery.
For those who wish to solve the mystery themselves, much detective work awaits.
The whole family got in on this mystery.
It really is a mystery too.
I didn't have time to go through the book to see who did it.
There are clues, supposedly hidden on each page so it takes time.
The kids are going to scour the pages today and see if they can figure it out.
Well, they play all kinds of games and by the time dinner come, someone ate all the food.
We don't know.Anyone who wants to spoil me, I welcome the answer.
I am in finals and don't have time to figure it out.
I want to read MORE!
In their dotage the Offspring will still be talking about their crazy mom having a signed first of this that she would read to them, but wouldn't let them touch until they washed their hands.
The mystery isn't revealed until near the end, and the book definitely requires that you look back through it to solve the mystery.
Overall, mystery hunting aside, I enjoyed this book, the fun characters, and the whimsical, jam-packed illustrations!
My only gripe was that the end note made it appear that the mystery would be easily solved by looking at the pictures, which led me to think a simple glance back through would suffice.
But, knowing how all the clues worked into the story, I was even more impressed with the illustrations!So, definitely a fun, creative book/hidden clues mystery!
I LOVE THIS BOOK. I did a program based in it for tweens last year and it was amazing (albeit sparsely attended, but it's a tween program so any attendance is great!). Any time any person expresses any interest in puzzles (coworkers, kids, parents, strangers) I leap up and offer them this book. I love introducing kids to anagrams and pigpen ciphers, because I distinctly remember my elementary school library helping me as I pored over this book as a weird 5th grader. I had so much fun!
One of the most amazing illustrations I've ever seen in children's books.
The pictures are so detailed and there are hundreds of things going on in them, you could just look for hours.
In this case, there's a mystery to be solved and some really fun clues to be looking for in the pictures.
Not easy enough of a mystery for a small child, but just tough enough for my 1st grader, and it kept me interested too!
The clues are hidden in the pictures and many deal with letters and words.
Lots of fun and a book we'll go back to over and over again.
The other day, my son brought this home from my parents' house. I remembered it as one of my favorite children's books--and it didn't disappoint. This who-dunnit mystery is teeming with hidden puzzles, many of which I couldn't even solve today (morse code, musical notes, and more). I had so much fun re-"reading" (more like "puzzling over") this that I ordered seven more of Base's books--ostensibly for my kids.
One of my very favorite books as an older child - my sisters and I poured over this book for weeks.
I usually don't review picture books, but this is the most author-indulgent thing I've ever read.Every page is indeed covered with challenging codes and clues, but 98% of them are either useless or actively misleading.
A lot of them literally say "red herring." That doesn't motivate me to find more clues.Finding the clues is seriously the least efficient way you can solve this mystery.
It's hard to make a picture book so boring with so few pages, but this one managed.
You're not even helping the innocent animals solve the little mystery because the clues aren't part of the plot.
Graeme Base is one of my favorite authors and artists.
This book came to my memory recently - vaguely at first.
My brother and I spent something like two hours researching online from our memory (we searched those findthechildhoodbookthatyoucantrememberthetitleof.com sites) and finally rediscovered Graeme Base and this book.
It took hours to figure the mystery out, and I was still left stymied when I arrived at the back cover.And don't let the fact that this is a "children's" book deter you from reading or seeking it out - adults, if they are still clever and human, can enjoy this as much as a child.
I had read this before, but that time I didn't make the effort to look for clues, solve the mystery, or even read the solution.
This time I read the book, looked for clues, deciphered many of the hidden messages, and solved the mystery before ever reading through the solution pages!
And wow, the solution pages pointed out many clues I hadn't even noticed.
Although some of those clues are red herrings, so I was glad I hadn't taken time with them!
If you like cracking codes, noticing minute details, and solving mysteries, you will enjoy this book.
Ok this may be the coolest kids book ever, if you have a smart kid who likes puzzles or codes.
It took us two or three HOURS to solve the book.
He did solve it, but we had to resort to a hint off the internet to find the swan's name.
My kid is now enjoying looking back at the amazing illustrations.
Sort of like a daVinci code for kids, except this book was way better than that.
I'm buying a bunch of these to give out as birthday gifts to the kids in my life.
This was a gift for my then, twenty-year old daughter. She loved it. One of her favorites.Who says all kids books have to be read to, or bought for kids? :D
In this "curious mystery" by Graeme Base, author of Animalia,Horace Elephant invites 11 friends to his eleventh birthday party.
The brilliantly embedded clues and breathtaking illustrations contribute to the clever rhyming tale in this modern masterpiece.No elementary school classroom or personal library is complete without The Eleventh Hour.
This intricately constructed mystery is supported by magnificent illustrations, clues in borders, and gratefully, by detailed author's notes in the back of the book that help young sleuths (and adults) locate the brilliantly conceived clues.
This is a good mystery story for older young kids.
I don't think that the clues presented themselves very readily, and that's a good thing in a mystery.
In a *children's* mystery story, however, maybe a few *slightly* more obvious clues would have been good--I'm not saying the challenge should have been removed, but an easier bone every now and then would have been welcome.
In short, my niece enjoyed the book, but I know she would not have found any of the clues on her own.
The illustrations and well-crafted text raises this from a three star to a four star for me.
She brought it home, and we had a lot of fun reading it together, pouring over the beautiful illustrations, and trying to decipher the mystery.When Horace the elephant turns 11 he throws himself an elaborate birthday party, and invites all of his other animal friends to join in the fun.
There are games, costumes, and of course an elaborate feast that Horace himself had prepared.
Through a series of clues, the reader is left to discover who stole the feast.Author/illustrator Graeme Base pulls out all the stops in this book, which is full of mysterious clues, scrambled sentences, riddles, and hidden characters cleverly placed in the beautiful art.
This book is great for kids who are into mysteries, clues, and decoding.
Even better, this is great for kids who are into awesome illustrations.
Even better, even better, this poem features some pretty sweetly rhyming pages.
Secret aside for parents: If your child is not a decoder, figure out the mystery ahead of time, or look it up on the Internet.
Luckily, the "help" pages are now taped together in the back of the book rather than having to send a mail order off for them, but even so.
Your kids interests will dwindle once there is no new artwork if they aren't into mysteries.
The point is all the puzzles and "clues" hidden in the pictures.
Unfortunately, in the effort to put "oh, so many!" things to find in the pictures, really very few (or even none) of them must be solved to figure out the mystery.
And many of the hidden messages actually say "red herring" or don't say that but don't provide much helpful information anyway (Watch the clocks!
I read this with my daughter and we found some of the hidden messages and we did figure out who stole the feast, though mostly through decryption rather than picture searching.
My husband grew up with this book and, although I loved Animalia as a kid, this book was not in my collection. The two of us spent a couple of nights over the Thanksgiving break working out this mystery--what a fun way to pass an evening! The mystery here is simple enough for an older child to figure out with a little parental guidance, but the clues in code are quite difficult. There are so many beautiful and funny details hidden in the illustrations, and the whole concept is extremely well carried out.
I'm just not a big fan of animals in human clothing, but I did like how much is going on in each of these paintings at the surface level. Intrigued by all of the codes lurking in the background. Might take a shot at solving this without consulting the Internet. If kids can figure it out, surely I can, right? :)
The Eleventh Hour by Graeme Base is a wonderful mystery picture book for children.
Throughout the day, they all play the different games waiting for the eleventh hour when they can finally devour the feast.
To their horror, the eleventh hour comes and the feast is gone.
These elements make this book very high quality.To be considered under the mystery genre, stories must have some characteristics.
The Eleventh Hour has these mystery elements.
By going back through the book, they can deduce who the real thief was.As a children’s mystery, The Eleventh Hour is a great choice.
The most important part of the party, however, is the giant feast that he promises to feed his guests on the 11th hour.
Who could commit such an atrocious act?This book is unnecessarily long, meaning that about half of the pages had nothing to do with the actual plot.
Instead, the book does not discuss the actual mystery until the very end, and then it cuts off and leaves the reader guessing at who is the culprit.
Every illustration has a lot of detail and color/patterns so that the answer to the mystery isn't obvious since it is hidden in the drawings.
The children’s mystery book The Eleventh Hour by Graeme Base tells the story of Horace the Elephant who holds a party for his eleventh birthday.
I don’t want to spoil the ending but if you pay close attention to the characters in the illustrations and crack the code at the end of the book you are able to figure out who the thief is.The Eleventh Hour is a great children’s mystery book.
If you have an attentive audience it is a great read aloud.
Overall, I feel this is a great children’s book that every teacher, parent and student should read.
I actually read this book for the first time while completing the genre presentation with my group.
When I initially flipped through it, I saw all the colorful illustrations and the all the busy pages and was really intrigued.
I really liked how at the end, it turns out to be the mouse who ate the dinner (along with some friends of course).
They are very busy in order to conceal the details to solve the mystery but were very engaging and the colors really seemed to burst off the pages.
I fondly remember the hours of fun I had figuring out the puzzles in this book with my mother when I was in 5th grade or so.
You don't necessarily need to solve every puzzle to get the answer in the end.Even without the clever puzzles this book would be a winner for the illustrations.
I'd recommend this for any children in the later grades of elementary school, but even younger children will still enjoy the illustrations and the story even if they may not be able to solve all the puzzles without a lot of help.
"The Eleventh Hour" by Graeme Base is about an elephant named Horace.
Horace is having an extravagant birthday party.
Horace isn't saddened though because he reappears with sandwiches and his humungo surprise birthday cake.
The genre of this text is mystery.
"The Eleventh Hour" is a great companion to "Theodore Boone Kid Lawyer" by John Grisham.
Both books are mysteries.
The reader has to look between the lines at the evidence and clues that are strewn throughout the text.
Both mysteries occur when the characters least expect it.
Both are great reads!
A combination mystery and picture book in rhyme. It is extremely rare to find such a skilled and creative illustrator/poet that makes children's books. I remember working on solving all the different puzzles hidden in this book with my siblings when we were young. It took us quite a while, but we felt very accomplished when we figured them out.
Wonderful rhyming, rhythm, and story! Superb artwork! A story filled with merriment and mystery. How did I miss this one for my children. This book will sure to spark the brain cells of any youngster.
Very clever book that will entertain for hours. Illustrations are magical with hidden clues, and drawings. So much in this little book that could absorb (especially a child) for very long periods of time.
Stunning artwork! I think I'll have to work on the mystery for a bit...
