https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/408704.Novel_on_Yellow_Paper
Stevie Smith is rightly hailed as one of the finest poets of the 20thC, noted among many others for ‘Not Waving But Drowning’, a humorous and melancholy poem that found a second life as a Manic Street Preachers lyric. This short extemporised novel is droll, erudite, and exquisitely modernist in that charming manner of pre-war English fiction, helped along by Smith’s own wit (indebted to her reading of Dorothy Parker), and bizarre Latin coinages that seem entirely another world away now. A charming read.
My review: https://theblankgarden.com/2017/05/12...
A fabulously unconventional young lower-middle class White woman with no pretensions to objectivity or representativeness narrates her thoughts as-they-come in England between the wars.
She does not complete her thoughts or her stories and they follow one another in no kind of order.
Her style is never serious, ranging from whimsical and disarmingly self-deprecating to crisply sardonic, especially on the social position of women and on sex.
On the latter subjects I admire her, as on friendship and fellowship between women, but on politics and literature I cannot agree with her, though she speaks with clarity and some insight.
Well, it's a novel, and it's written on yellow paper, but beyond that it's nothing like what you'd expect, unless you're expecting awesomeness, which it pretty much delivers.
I rather like Pompey Casmilus, the narrator of this slightly off-kilter stream of consciousness novel, which in Stevie Smith's opinion makes me a “foot-off-the-ground” sort of person.
Not only is this a jolly good thing to be, but it is wholly necessary if one is to fully appreciate her exuberant chatter.This was Smith's first novel, printed in 1936, and could perhaps be described as a frenetic, not quite fictional, ingeniously funny memoir.
She discusses and analyses the people in her life - characters quite obviously based on Smith's actual friends and relatives – and leaves the reader feeling altogether exhilarated, enervated and not infrequently bewildered.I expect people either love or loathe this book.
Impossible to say what it is about, but the narrative voice becomes increasingly funny and endearing, a breathless falling-over-itself colloquial tone that the writer said is intended to evoke everyday speech rather than high literary style, but you don't know anyone that talks like this unless you hang around with upper middle-class young British women who have somehow become displaced in time by 3/4s of a century or so.
Really "startlingly original" though that sounds like lazy book review boilerplate (not as a bad as "finely observed first novel").
It's hard to put anything about this one into words. "Novel" is more or less a misnomer; this is a discursive, stream-of-consciousness narrative, obviously pretty autobiographical, running over a wide variety of Smith's/Pompey Casimilus's experiences in England and Germany in the 30s. Interesting, half shocking, contemporary thoughts on anti-semitism, forming and unforming relationships, work, etc. She makes judgments throughout on her readers, telling straightforward plot-driven people to put the book down but the undecideds to keep going--I returned it to the library already or I'd go get the quote. It's worth reading.

Very neat book where an intelligent witty 1930s lady digresses about various topics such as nazi germany, sex, ancient greek theatre, relationships, the church and her cool aunt. wonderful turn of phrase and style, and i especially liked the part where she says that if you want to read a normal book you should read something else instead.
Underneath Stevie Smith's playful prose is a dead seriousness about the world. She just refuses to keep her feet on the ground. And I get that. It's almost insufferable, but not quite. In the meantime, there are some fabulous lines. "But oh how sure I am that it is so much better to have love with all its pains and terrors and fanaticism than to live untouched the life of the vegetable. But how it tears one, and how unruhig it is."
Stevie Smith was an English poet.
Her collected works was recently published and I started casually skimming the volume, but it was NOVEL ON YELLOW PAPER, her first novel, that I wanted to start with.
It was supposedly her response to a publisher she brought her poems to who suggested she write a novel instead, so she did, using the yellow paper from the office she worked in as assistant to some magazine executive.
You can tell her prose is the work on a poet.
And she’s so English that I felt as if a translator is needed to fully understand her.
You could not know.’The 27th entry on the Virago Modern Classics list, which has recently been reissued, is Novel on Yellow Paper, ‘the bestselling debut novel that made Stevie Smith a star’, and which took her only ten weeks to write.
Pompey herself writes that ‘this book is the talking voice that runs on, and the thoughts come, the way I said, and the people come too, and come and go, to illustrate the thoughts, to paint the moral, to adorn the tale’.Novel on Yellow Paper is a melancholy work, breathy and almost exhausting to read in places.
Read for Just Read readathon, sponsored by Reema RattanI think this is the fourth book of this type I've read for Just Read - the vignettey, not-quite-a-novel-not-quite-a-memoir, impressionistic kinda thing: My Struggle, The Argonauts, Speedboat and now this (and in between, on the side, Luke Carman's An elegant young man...). Read in isolation, I think Novel on Yellow Paper would have delighted me, but right now I want to read a book set in an imaginary world with a gripping story line and characters that are clearly not the author. But it's not Stevie's fault.

At first this appears vague and wandering, but it is stylised and contains snippets of poetry, observational humour and real insight. Occasionally profound. Mostly should be read as one reads poetry – even though it is outwardly prose - although does contain some passages that can only be read as prose. Lyrical. Beautiful.
Written in the mid 1930s - many years before she became the famous, much anthologised poet - this sees Stevie Smith's alter ego Pompey recording her thoughts as she wanders through the London suburbs and Berlin. It feels not unlike several rather brilliant poems wrapped in a longer free-form, unstructured prose piece that felt flat to me.
Many of the ideas contained in her "novel" show a woman way before her time. It is hard to believe that it was written in the 1930s. However, the book is too non-linear for me. As Pompey describes it I prefer a foot-on-the-ground-novel. (Purchased secondhand at Judd Books, London)
A great book! The narrator is touching and sometimes deep. There is no real story but simply the confessions of a secretary typing away while the work is slow.
Charming, girlish, and wise with the wisdom of a cynical, well-read twenty-year-old. So thankful to be introduced to this writer for class.
torn on how to rate this. parts of it were super funny but others parts were like wtf am i reading? i guess i'm what the narrator would call a foot-on-the-ground person. and i'm ok with that.
Must be in a particular mood to enjoy, and perhaps best read aloud.
Impossible to rate this one, but I tried. Stevie Smith is somehow beyond the star system.
A unique literary voice. Echoes of Virginia Woolf and the tone of an eighteenth-century romp. Excellent, entertaining, innovative. Five stars.
Pompey works as a personal assistant and when she is not typing letters and speeches on blue office paper she puts down whatever thoughts occur to her on yellow office paper, which I suppose makes it look as though she is busy. That is the premise of the book, although I'm sure a bit more construction went into it than it appears.The result is a curiosity, with a certain amount of contemporary relevance and quirky humour, a couple of failed love affairs and a lot of playing around with words.
In contrast to Stevie Smith's poetry this reads as a book of its time,England in the 1930's,whereas the poems are more timeless and general in their grasp of the Human Condition.Certainly the Human Condition is here in the novelbut it is sometimes dated and narrow.Although the section on girls and marriageis too current for comfort.So a mixed bag and certainly an interesting read on many levels.Its origins lie in a delicious irony.Having rejected her poems, the naive publishertold her to "go away and write a novel."This was also rejected as being too much of a risk.Risk??
I liked Stevie Smith's Novel on Yellow Paper, and who knows--I may just love it once I've lived with it a bit longer.
It reminds me of what James Joyce and T.S. Eliot were doing in 1922 with Ulyssess and The Waste Land, respectively: stream-of-consciousness, mixed formats (poetry, prose, lots of allusive scrap-book type passages), and relatively "vague" characterizations.
In addition to the Joyce/Eliot combination, Smith's novel also reminds me of a British Beatnik road novel (before the beatniks were truly out and about).
It takes time to read, too, re-reading passages to figure out what she means, much like one of the more dense Joyce novels.
I thoroughly enjoyed it, and thought the character of Pompey had amazing insights and was an especially forward thinker for the time (20th century in the years immediately leading up to WWII).
Novel on Yellow Paper is for those who like JD Salinger's short stories, e.e. cummings poetry, and the insight of Graham Greene (very specifically, if you loved the diary part of The End of the Affair like I did, you'll enjoy this book).
I chose this book because Barbara Pym stated it to be one of her favorites.
Since I really like Barbara Pym's novels, I was intrigued.
Novel on Yellow Paper was written by Stevie Smith, in the 1930's.
Basically, the novel contains the thoughts of Pompey Casmilus, a secretary of a magazine publisher.
She writes on yellow office paper whatever is on her mind, however, I found the novel hard to follow.
The back of the book says, "Novel on Yellow Paper remains one of the masterpieces of twentieth-century literature." That was a curious statement to me, because the book is basically about nothing and makes little sense.
I have no idea if Stevie Smith wrote this as near-automatic fiction (consistently comic fiction kind of has to be), but the narrative rhythm is so smooth but spontaneous that it reads that way.
In her own words:"This is a foot-off-the-ground novel that came by the left hand.
And if you are a foot-off-the-ground person I make no bones to say that is how you will write and only how you will write.
And if you are a foot-on-the-ground person, this book will be for you a desert of weariness and exasperation.
It was a mistake for you to get this book.
Not really a novel, more a series of (very) loosely connected anecdotes/observations/commentaries/diversions etc.
What it most reminded me of was the script for a stand-up routine (albeit a wryly rather than laugh-out-loudly funny one).
I enjoyed the authentic feel of a "voice" from the 1930's and the uniqueness of the voice itself, and the poetic style.
Quite short, but needed to be read slowly to fully appreciate.
This is a "keeper" though, and I suspect that next time I read it I might bump it up to 4 stars (especially if between-times I swot up on my German!).(Oh, and it inspired me to go and read Phèdre!)
