https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/162971.Selected_Letters
The Cambridge edition edited by Shackleton Bailey is so so great.
Shackleton Bailey includes very few letters not written by Cicero and I could immediately tell the difference in writing style.
I was also drawn to the letters that discussed Roman theater/morality (e.g. Fam. 7.1).
Since Shackleton Bailey's an expert on Cicero and in the correspondence in particular I felt like I was in good hands.
Shackleton Bailey's expertise really shines in his commentary on word usage in Cicero.
Cicero inserts Greek words and phrases almost every letter and sometimes Shackleton Bailey translates them outright and sometimes he only includes background information on the word(s).
While I have no qualms with Professor Bailey's selection of letters, I do have some issues with the commentary itself.
I'd selected this for my advanced, undergraduate course, and but in retrospect I'm not sure it was the best decision.
The commentary was wide-ranging, and certainly showcases Professor Bailey's considerable knowledge of Cicero, but it was also unhelpful for undergraduates puzzling their way through the particular, and often confusing turns of Cicero's grammar and vocabulary in the letters.
I just don't feel that it was the best fit for even sturdy, capable undergraduates in their second or third semester of advanced Latin.
Read or translated them in Latin. Cicero seemed very human and the grief he has over his daughters dead was very touching, he wrote some things that are very accurate today.
“I absorb myself in literary work, writing or reading. Some of my visitors listen to me as a man of learning, because I know a little more than themselves. All the rest of the time is given to the claims of the body. As for my country, I have already mourned her longer and more deeply than any mother ever mourned her only son.”
For those who treasure glimpses into the minds and hearts of historical figures, and who enjoy filling out the record with greater insights into personality and character, letters such as these are a boon.
It's a wonder to think that after two thousand years we can look in on the great statesman during his informal moments - though of course the business of office/court was never far from his mind (consequently several letters also provide interesting pathways into events of the time).This selection is just a fraction of the corpus, which tallies at over 800 letters - an amazing resource!
Shackleton-Bailey's introductions and notes are concise and helpful, even though there are some gaps, and the translation highly readable.
Highly recommended.
Triumph. Bravery. Disillusionment. Vanity. Righteousness. A desire to do his country good. A desire to prove his own worth. A desire for acknowledgement, from the world and from himself. Cicero the man was of many faces. For as much as the ancients insisted that a man's character remained fixed since birth, Cicero was always evolving. Justification. Rationalization. Excuses to friends and to himself. His letters afford us a front seat to the portrait of Cicero, the politician and the man, of his thoughts and motives, of his sense of honor and justice, and finally of his own place in history.
Cicero was a man of quick wit, as evidenced by his speeches, of deep conviction, as evidenced by his essays, and, from the evidence of his letters at least, a good friend.(This isn't the exact edition I read.)
Although Cicero's insight comes through even in his personal letters, his excessive use of flattery for servants of the state makes this book rather dry reading. It is an interesting peek into the great senator and orator's mental life.
"Nothing tends more to the reader's enjoyment than varieties of circumstance and vicissitudes of fortune." Basically!
Read for class. The closest thing we'll get to an unedited look into the thought processes of a politician from the last chaotic years of the Roman Republic.
A must read for everyone.
Really surprised at how much I enjoyed these.
supposed to be a wonderful read...recommended by alberto manguel
