https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/820274.It_Looked_Like_Spilt_Milk
All the shapes that appeared in the book could be the obvious item whose outline is shown. Neo and I were both baffled that things were not as they appeared. However, in the end, we both saw the error of our ways. Cute book to begin a weekend together!
I recently came across this book while teaching a group of first graders.First grade, maybe Kinder. That's when this book was read to me. And I love it. For whatever reason, it was eye opening. Anything could be anything. The world was a playground for my imagination. It looked like Spilt Milkbut it wasn't spilt milk...Read this book to your kid. Read this book to yourself. It's so simple. And so wonderful.
This was a great book about imagination and perspective for young children. This book would be a great addition to any pre-k classroom. It can easily be combine with activities for the children to do where they can make there own 'spilt milk' creation. It teaches about seeing things in different ways and how something simple could seem like more.
Another definite and quite memorable book from the childhood. What truly made this so unique was the fact that the whole page was in fact blue with just a white picture and the white font standing in contrast. Children are asked to open their minds to see what they can see and this can be a fun book to read before going on a cloud-watching trip. What will you see?
What is the white shape on the blue background? Is it different shapes in split milk? Sometimes it looks like a Flower.But it wasn't a Flower.Sometimes it looked like a Birthday Cake.But it wasn't a Birthday Cake.This delightful, creative picture book will foster children's imagination as they try to guess each shape. The text follows a rhythm they will quickly pick up on. The nonrepresentational art on a blue page sparks creativity for art projects and cloud watching. An inspirational book.
Simple story of pictures in the sky!
I did like this book because it makes you think that the book is about what shapes the spilled milk can make.
This book focuses on a child's imagination and it makes them think about what kind of figures their spilled milk can make or what it looks like.
The clouds do change depending on the weather and if it will be sunny or cloudy.
The book is enjoyable because we can ask the children questions like "Can you guess what the next picture will be?" and we will get to hear each child's opinion.
I used this book in a preschool story time to introduce the concept of imagination. The kids absolutely loved guessing what each picture could be. I enjoyed their responses when I turned the book upside down and they reevaluated their previous ideas. A great way to encourage kids to use their imaginations.
Simple, but very cute. This is a great book for story time and easily adapted to felt board. Shaw uses a repetitve verse which kids will easily be able to follow and they'll enjoy trying to guess what each white shape is. Todder, PreK.No reviews available.
It looked like a birdbut it's not a bird!!It looked like a flowerbut it's not a flower!!It always takes all the shapes you dare to imagine, what would it be??!!
!!!!!! - a Rorschach (milk) test ! ?
Thanks to a colleague for the recommendation to read this book, take kids outside to see things in clouds, and to make our own clouds with white paint and blue construction paper. Pre-K kids LOVED it all!
I loved this book when I was small, and now, the kids I work with love it too. we love to pretend the different shapes are other things. I love these kinds of kids' books.
Imagination comes naturally to a child, so as an adult reader when I first glanced at the contrasting blue and white pages of “It looked like spilled milk” I thought it was a story about teaching children to identify different objects through shape and in some ways I was correct.
What Shaw attempts to render to us as the reader is that every single person on the planet has the ability to be creative; human beings are creative by nature but through the fog of life our perception of our ability to exercise such expression becomes more complicated.
At the end of the book children learn the shape is not spilt milk; rather it is a cloud!This book is a science and literacy resource.
A perfect science lesson for children would be to take them outside and let them observe the shapes of the clouds.
They could also draw their own pictures and write, "It Looked Like..." Art and drama can be integrated with this book because children use their imaginations to create pictures of clouds.
I LOVE this book!!!In terms of literacy students could write a narrative about a cloud in the sky.
Although the book is extremely repetitive, it's keeps children on their toes and even has a surprise ending.
The images (of white shapes that resemble a bird, a birthday cake, a tree, an owl, a bunny, and many other things) are simple and unique.
As previously stated, the text is quite repetitive and always says something like, "Sometimes, it looked like a bird.
But it wasn't a bird", "Sometimes, it looked like a tree.
But it wasn't a tree", "Sometimes, it looked like a birthday cake.
But it wasn't a birthday cake", and so on.
Each picture is very simple: a blue background with some sort of white shape that resembles a different object on each page.
Before children get to the last page and discover it is a cloud, the suspense of what this white space could be would keep a child interested in the book and probably impatient to find out what it is!
This book would be very relatable to children because children have the biggest imaginations of all and i'm sure every child has looked up at a cloud and saw it as something else.
This book keeps young readers from guessing and using their cognitive skills by using their imagination.
The pages are blue and the illustration is white and the words as well.
In the last page it said, "sometimes it looked like split milk but it was not split milk.
It was just a cloud in the sky." It is kind of pretty cool how the author used blue as the background for the pages.
In some of the pages, I will not read the sentence, but I will ask the children what they think the picture is which will make them guess and try to figure it out.
The picture-book version is fine, but so simple that I'm glad there's a board book version. Even though, as Michael points out, it's been abridged. I'm glad some of these older books are still (again?) being treasured.Btw, on the edition I read the cover 'white' is more of a creamy color... I don't know if anyone here remembers, but milk used to be richer; people didn't drink 'skimmed' milk. The pictures inside are stark white and navy blue, though, which isn't as wonderful as it could be, imo.Cute, but I have to honestly admit, a bit disappointing.
Yolanda Mason's Review!I Liked this book very much, the illustrations were very good and the content was good. this book spoke to the imagination of children,what does this spilled milk take on the shape of- what does this spilled milk look like? I believe the children would respond with encouragement to know this actually happens, it would open up their creativity. I would emphasize what great things we can do with our imagination.
I really liked this book, I think mainly because some of the picture were said to be a certain thing but in my opinion I saw something else and that made it so much more special to me. I think a lot of the younger children will enjoy the fact that they may all see something different compared to each other. It will for sure be in my future Pre-k classroom
Good book for preschool age to get their minds thinking outside the box. Very easy to read book for independent reading or read alongs. Pictures/colors are dull because it's supposed to look like spilt milk, but overall good book.
This is such a simple but quite unique book. The repetition in the book can help our younger readers with their prediction skills. As the teacher reads the book, she can read the repetitive lines and have the students guess if it is spilt milk and if not, what it could be.
What I liked about this book is that you think that your looking at pictures from a puddle of spilt milk but your really looking at clouds. A great activity will be to have the students go out side and look up at the clouds and draw what they see.
ماذا ترين في السماء ياهدى؟رأيت نفسي في هذا الكتاب، طفلة في السادسة مستلقية في المقعد الخلفي لسيارة تجوب الولايات الأمريكيةكم تبدو تلك الأيام قريبة رغم بعدهاالحمدلله على نعمة الذكريات
A book about the imagination. Simple and short.
Clouds make crazy shapesImagination
It looked like spilt milk By Charles G.
ShawReviewed by Luisa DanielThis book “It looked like spilt milk” is about the shapes that are created in the cloud and what there similarities are but it really is not what you see, it is just a cloud.This book by Charles G.
When reading the book and going one you kind of wonder what it is talking about and why are they saying “sometimes it looked like a ice cream cone but it’s not an ice cream cone.” You do not know until the end that the author is talking about clouds.
Overall, the book is very simple but interesting and I liked it.
Copyright: 1947Number of Pages: unnumberedBook Format: hardcoverReading Level: grades preK-3, GR level: CGenre: FictionLit Requirement: Predictable bookSummary:This book begins by showing a white blob that looked like spilt milk, then moved on to saying a rabbit, a tree, etc...
Each page is the same, sentence on the left page with a white blob picture on the right.
The last page says that each blob is just a could in the sky.Review:While thsi book is intended for younger readers, I feel as though it is boring and will not keep the attention of readers.
I feel as though there is no theme or meaning to the book.
This book, is an early picture book to help young kids us their imagination and be able to understand shapes, and animals.
Throughout the entire book, it would "It looked like a bunny.
But is wasn't a bunny".
In the end it said it "It looked like spilt milk.
But it wasn't spilt milk".
This book has an ongoing cycle that makes it easy for young children to remember.In "It Looked Like Spilt Milk", is a book for young children.
This book is easy for the children to understand and can comprehend.
