https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44045.A_Universal_History_of_Iniquity
And then in the words of Borges, "That night Billy lays his blanket out next to the dead man and sleeps - ostentatiously - until morning."Monk Eastman, Purveyor of IniquitiesHere is a description of noted personalities from this urban tale, "The chaotic story takes place in the cellars of old breweries turned into Negro tenements, in a seedy, three-story New York City filed with gangs of thugs like the Swamp Angels, who would swarm out of the labyrinthine sewers on marauding expeditions; gangs of cutthroats like the Daybreak boys, who recruited precocious murderers of ten and eleven years old; brazen, solitary giants like the Plug Uglies, whose stiff bowler hats stuffed with wood and whose vast shirttails blowing in the wind of the slums might provoke a passerby's improbable smile, but who carried huge bludgeons in their right hands and long, narrow pistols; and gangs of street toughs like the Dead Rabbit gang, who entered into battle under the banner of their mascot impaled upon a pike.
Briefly: A catalog, a biographical dictionary of vile people with a worldwide range, real and/or imagined (imagined, certainly, even the real).
This owes a debt to Marcel Schwob’s Imaginary Lives and to which J.
Rodolfo Wilcox owes a debt for having enabled The Temple of Iconoclasts (which I’ll now return to liking quite a lot), and more recently, providing premise for Roberto Bolaño’s Nazi Literature in the Americas (which I read first, bassackwards, I).4 stars for a fun, creepy read, made more enjoyable with the inclusion of a mini-bio of Billy the Kid.
(Americans like to think our bad guys are as bad as anyone else’s)
This is the first, published in 1935.I had read several profound and passionate reviews by friends, and felt the building lure of Borges, aided by a growing awareness of how influential he was to many other writers.
I know that labyrinths recur throughout Borges' work, and the first mention is on the second page, in relation to the Mississippi delta.The Improbable Imposter Tom Castro 5*This story reminded me of Patricia Highsmith's Talented Mr Ripley.
"In matters of grave importance, style, not sincerity, is the vital thing."  Oscar WildeExercises in Style These stories are fascinating exercises in style.They effectively document the development of Borges' style at a time when "he was a shy sort of man who could not bring himself to write short stories, and so amused himself by changing and distorting (sometimes without aesthetic justification) the stories of other men." Matter of Fact As Borges said in an earlier Preface, "the stories are n
An author or narrator can make a reader complicit in their fraud, their forgery of truth.An Impostor Forges His Style These exercises in style, therefore, witness Borges mimicking and constructing styles of fiction and non-fiction that give the appearance of truth, veracity and authenticity.If he fakes the style of non-fiction well enough, we will assume that he is sincere, or at least as sincere as history is capable of.Of course, it's not enough that we believe that what is factual is true.
The final story, The Man in the corner of the pink wall is different, since it refers, apparently, to any specific historical character and the style is much more slang.
Finally, the History of Infamy, who led us around the world, ends with a dozen small fictions all (a few lines, a few pages), stories of rewrites picked here and there by Borges, especially in the Book of the Thousand and One Nights.In "History of Eternity" met a patchwork of tests that have little to them, and even less with the Universal History of Infamy, even if they can give, at the turn, some indications on the style fictions of the first part.
Talvez pelo fascínio que o Velho Oeste sempre exerceu sobre mim, o relato que mais me marcou destas universais e infamantes histórias de Borges, tenha sido "O assassino desinteressado Bill Harrigan", breve narração da atribulada e breve vida de Billy the Kid, morto aos 21 anos pelo Xerife Pat Garrett, acusado de 21 mortes "sem contar os mexicanos".
Hay palabras que necesitan de mas palabras para ser definidas, y la infamia es una de esas. Borges en este libro de Ficción presenta cuentos creados con personajes biográficos. La voz del narrador en tercera persona llamo mi atención, cuando durante la lectura te encuentras con la primera persona y durante la narración también lees Borges no es exactamente un personaje, sin embargo no se confunde con el narrador de la historia, al usar voz narrativa en tercera persona. La voz narrativa de este l
Borges en este libro de Ficción presenta cuentos creados con personajes biográficos.
En el camino, el autor brinda información que va desde lo particular hacia lo general, la narrativa ve de adentro para fuera de la historia.
Borges hace uso de metáforas como la que le asigna como título a un capitulo: El simulador de la infamia.
Hay quienes mencionan que para leer a Borges se necesita madurez literaria, tal vez por el lenguaje o el uso de constantes metáforas lo dificulte.
Un poco paciencia y desde este libro de ficción podrás entrar en mundo de Borges, como buena alternativa de inicio de lectura de este autor.
এই বইটির বাংলা শিরোনাম করা যেতে পারে "কুখযাতির সারবজনীন ইতিহাস"। কোন কোন বোদধার মতে বোরহেসের তরুণ বয়সে লেখা এই বইটির মাধযমেই লযাটিন আমেরিকান মযাজিক রিয়ালিজম বা যাদু-বাসতবতার পদযাতরা শুরু। তবে এটা সংখযালঘু মতামত। যাদু-বাসতবতার কলাসিক উপাদান বলতে আমরা যা কিছু বুঝি, তা এখানে মোটের উপর অনুপসথিত। এখন পরযনত যাদু-বাসতবতার পিতৃতব কিউবার ঔপনযাসিক আলেহো কারপেনতিয়ের-এর ঘাড়েই বরতায়, এবং "কুখযাতি" পড়ার পরে সেই মতামত হুট করে বদলে ফেলার কোন সঙগত কারণ খুঁজে পেলাম না।তবে হযাঁ, বিংশ শতাবদীর সাহিতযে ভয়ংকর পরভাবশাল

De estos últimos, destaca el desconcertante “El espejo de tinta”.Con “Historia universal de la infamia” inicia el periodo clásico de Borges (Un crítico calificó este libro como la obra que inicia el realismo mágico latinoamericano), puede leerse como introducción al mundo Borgesiano y también como un libro de relatos históricos excelentemente escrito.
El ánimo histórico y periodístico, lo coloca a como un libro menos complicado comparado con otras colecciones de relatos del autor (“El Aleph” y “Ficciones”), pero esto no significa que la lectura sea muy rápida, puesto que el lector deseará confrontar los innumerables datos y referencias mencionadas.
Un relato corto de Borges puede contener más información que una novela completa de otros autores.
Sucede que, en esta antología de relatos criminales, Borges se apropia de historias verídicas (sin duda, caídas del ambar de viejas páginas policiales o de las polvorientas leyendas de antaño) y las envuelve en una atmósfera fascinante.
Quizás por eso, en el capítulo final (llamado "Etcétera"), Borges introduce 6 relatos nuevos, enteramente ficcionales.Pese a la amplitud de su temática, las historias de este libro son breves y concisas.
My only problem with this book was that it was too short. :) This is the sort of book that makes you want to make further explorations. Widow Ching the Pirate is probably my next stop somewhere over there between my historical reads.
Okuma, elbette, yazmadan sonra gelen bir etkinliktir; daha gösterişsiz, daha özgür, daha düşünseldir” “Kitabın adında yer alan alçaklık sözcüğü de çok ağır bir söz, ama bütün bu tantananın ardında hiçbir şey yok” diyen Borges, kitabın tekrar yayınlandığı tarihten yirmi yıl önceki haliyle hiç değiştirmeden tekrar yayınlatırken; bir yandan da alçakgönüllülüğün-üzerine basa basa da olsa, gönül almanın-öncesinde kıra kıra da olsa, tarihini yazıyor ennn barok tarafından.
“Zalim Kurtarıcı Lazarus Morell” kitabın ilk hikayesi ve akıllara ziyan da bir giriş’e sahip.
Bu adilane düzen, bu insancıl dönüşüm bir süre sonra sanatta isyana dönüşünce de her zaman olduğu gibi san’at kazanıyor hiç kuşkusuz.
Awww, my 1st Borges ^^ I remember the beauty, the confusion...just don't read it in your teenage years :D

This was an enjoyable read and much better than some have mentioned in their criticisms. Borges' style is so natural and free. It is as if he is sitting there in front of you, relaxing, relating his story to our sharpening delight.
صفحات كتاب از چوبه دار و مجازات شدگان و تبهكاران و دزدان دريايي انباشته شده و واژه بي عدالتي و شرارت در عنوان كتاب،ترس و هيبت بر مي انگيزد،اما زير اين همه طوفان هيچي و پوچي است.همه اش فقط ظاهر است و براي همين است كه شايد خوانندگان بتوانند از آن لذت ببرند.
গুডরিডসে পরতি সপতাহে হালি খানেক রিভিউ নামক বকবকানি পোসট করার একটি অভযাস ছিল, যদিও বুঝতে পারছিলাম যারা এসব পড়ছে তারা বেশ বিরকতই হচছে, তা সততবেও সে অভযাস ধরে রাখার বেশ শকত ইচছা রাখতাম। কিনতু ইচছায় সব হয় না। পড়তেই পারছি কই, আর রিভিউ। লেখার বযাপারেও ইনারশিয়া। যাক সে কথা, আজও রিভিউ লিখতে বসিনি। শুধু বোরহেস পড়তে শুরু করেছি, একটি বই পড়ে শেষ করেছি সেটা জানাতে বসেছি, খুশী ভাগ করতে এসেছি। Historia universal de la infamia এর দুখানা অনুবাদ আছে একটা ১৯৭২ সালের A Universal History of Infamy, আরেকটা ১৯৯৯ সালের
গুডরিডসে প্রতি সপ্তাহে হালি খানেক রিভিউ নামক বকবকানি পোস্ট করার একটি অভ্যাস ছিল, যদিও বুঝতে পারছিলাম
Es imposible que le de a Borges menos de 5 estrellas. Sus libros han llenado mi mundo de magia y enigmas siempre y cada una de las veces que los leo. Este, sin embargo, es otro de mis favoritos. Borges siempre será el mejor (para mí)
Amazing. Loved it.
Borges is primarily a writer of concepts. And here he spreads them in short, short tales, which might be imagined completely or partly or simply remixed from some olden writings—with JLB you never know. Characters die and continue living in the same house, or pretend to be a missing son without having no resembling features. The stories are full of knives, deaths and somehow are fun to read.
Benim için kitabın en önemli yanı Büyülü Gerçekçilik Akımı'nın ilk örneği olarak görülmesi. Borges öyle bir tarz başlatıyor ki tüm Latin Amerika onun peşinden gidiyor. Sonrasında Yüzyıllık Yalnızlık gibi şahane kitaplar ortaya çıkıyor. Alçaklığın Evrensel Tarihi'ni Kum Kitabı kadar sevemedim ama Arap kültüründen seçmelerle yazdığı son hikayeler çok iyiydi. Borges her ne kadar kendini şair olarak tanımlasa da hikaye anlatıcısı olarak çok başarılı olduğu kesin.
Another re-read. Young Borges working his way toward fiction by playing with fact. Perfidious individuals from history and legend stride through the pages of this slim book, spreading death and fear across 4 continents before coming to, for the most part, sticky ends. A great preamble to a unique body of work, but don't let this be your first or only Borges.
И все пак, какво ви очаква измежду страниците? Пирати и търговци на роби. Хора без съвест, които се представят за чужди синове, измамници, негодници, негодяи и обикновени убийци от Дивия Запад.Борхес разказва страховити истории за жестоки мъже и жени, които обаче, за разлика от начина, по който сме свикнали да слушаме, тук се разтварят във въздуха. Изядени се от прозаичен край или нелепа смърт, животите в тях са сведени до няколко параграфа.Научих много от този сборник. Препоръчвам го на хора, които пишат.Цялото ревю в "Изумен": http://izumen.blogspot.bg/2017/04/blo...
It's difficult to know what I really think of this, save that this is my first Borges, I devoured it quickly and throughly enjoyed the writing style, particularly the fanged sarcasm.A biographical quasi-version of  A Perfect Vacuum perhaps, only based on real people with a highly fictionalised and distorted version of the truth.The most interesting thing for me was not that Borges claims this was his chance to covertly try his hand at short story writing, but that I don't know much about the people he wrote about, so had no idea where the truth ended and fantasy started and, considering these were published in a newspaper, there seems something quite troubling with that.

Evrenin çeşitli yerlerinden yaşanan alçaklığı büyülü gerçekçilikle güzel harmanlıyor Borges. Post-Modern izlerini fazlasıyla hissettiriyor.

Me encanta la magia y la sorpresa cuando leo cada uno de sus relatos.
Debo admitir que siempre he leído sus cuentos de forma saltada, así que ahora me dispuse a leer en orden cronológico.
Este libro me parece increíble, mezcla tradiciones que derivan del judaísmo, el cristianismo, el medio oriente e incluso el criollismo argentino.
Se nota a medida que uno avanza y cuando llega a etcétera, el influjo de las mil y una noche, especialmente en historia de los dos que soñaron.
Mis favoritos de este libro son Maestros de las ceremonias del te y un teólogo en la muerte.
I somehow managed to get a BA with a focus on comparative literature and continental philosophy and then a PhD with a focus on twentieth century literature without reading any Borges.
Well, any time I tried to read South American 'magical realist' literature I broke out in hives of boredom, and I thought maybe Borges was to blame; in addition, I thought, and still think, that Borges might be responsible in part for recent developments in the anglo-american literature of conceit (you know, books called things like The Amazing Adventures of Kloofy Krumpleflugger, in which Kloofy Krumpleflugger has some kind of cute mental condition, a conflicted relationship with his mother, and is able to talk to animals--but which has absolutely no intellectual, emotional or ethical weight whatsoever outside a bland kind of liberalism).
این کتاب انگار نوشتنش برای بورخس تمرین بوده، خوندنش هم تمرینیه. مسابقه تو کتابهای دیگهاش اتفاق میافته.
این کتاب انگار نوشتنش برای بورخس تمرین بوده، خوندنش هم تمرینیه. مسابقه تو کتاب‌های دیگه‌اش اتفاق می‌افته.
