https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13481275-lost-lake
Sarah Addison Allen writes books that you want to keep after you finish them to read them again & again :)Wishing she would write a few more sequels to Garden Spells to keep that story going onward!Love Love Love her writing!
5 Magical Stars I don’t really know what this it with this author, but every book of her leaves me with a smile on my face and this book was no exception. The stories have always some magical aspects, and backgrounds so sweet and perfect, that makes impossible not wanting to be a part of these book-worlds. This was a beautiful story about a mother and a daughter, about a small town, about friendship and loyalty. About healing, and forgiving and romance and the magic that surrounds all of it. I c
5 Magical Stars	I don’t really know what this it with this author, but every book of her leaves me with a smile on my face and this book was no exception.
The stories have always some magical aspects, and backgrounds so sweet and perfect, that makes impossible not wanting to be a part of these book-worlds.
Magical, sweet and always with unexpected aspects.Writing Style:  Past tense, third person.
Amazing writing style.
Character Development:  Sweet and strong.
Kate is great and her daughter is sweet.
The supportive characters are also great.
HEA: 	(view spoiler)[Yes.
(hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Finally, I read it! I'll try to post my review soon, but I'll just say now that I really loved it :)-----------------------I really can't wait for it! :DAnd finally, there's a cover!
I cannot wait for this book - I love Sarah Addison Allen...her novels are like a great vacation at home for me :)On a second reading, I increased my star rating - I really liked this book this time around!
If you don't like the ending, you make up a new one." -- Lost LakeI read so much heavy stuff that it was nice to escape into this lovely story about a woman trying to start a new life after her husband's death.
My favorite book of hers is still The Peach Keeper, but Lost Lake is a delightful read.In the Acknowledgments, Allen says she was diagnosed with advanced-stage breast cancer in 2011 and has now had two years in remission.
She wrote, "The year of horrible change brought me to an amazing place in my life." There was more grief in this novel than in her previous books, and the writing was deeper.
This books feels like her journey to healing.
There is a magical quality, not only in the actual story, but in the writing as well.Widow Kate and her 8 year old daughter need to heal.
A place where Kate spent one very unforgettable childhood summer with her family when she was young.
It was a place where strangers were family, and where she almost had her first kiss.
This place is like that.
I need to get more wine.” Selma was filing her nails at the next table.
“Why do you need so much wine?
The story builds just like you imagined and wanted it to.
It is impossible for me to give this book any lower than a four star rating.
Her characters are so interesting, have very poignant back stories and are always fully fleshed people brought to life among the pages.
Her books are quirky, magical, and comforting.
I finished this with a smile on my face and a big awwwwwww.
Love the cover, the title and the place itself.
Love the little girl Devon and all her amazing outfits.
Heart warming and heartbreaking all at the same time Aaazing talent.
Not quite as magical but enough for all of us to remember those times fondly.

To me, Sarah Addison Allen's books always look good on the outside with their pretty covers and titles, I mean just look at "The Girl Who Chased The Moon".
I would like to see for myself how everyone had a good time and got along instead of just being told it happened and they did.
I was expecting more and when stuff finally happened and the book ended, I was like, "That was it?".
Others may love this book and good for them, but it didn't live up to my expectations of an enchanting read.
Her mother had gone a little crazy after that, like she’d pulled the in the event of an emergency switch that the women in her family told her to pull if her husband ever died, and this was what happened.She wouldn’t come out of her room for months.
In theory, I liked the idea of Kate and Eby (two women living under the same family curse) coming together in this place apart from the rest of the world and .
When her daughter finds some old correspondence from her great aunt Eby Pim, Kate is reminded of the wonderful summer she spent with her at a place called Lost Lake.
This trip sets off a whole new path of self discovery for not only Kate but an interesting group of people connected to the lake and Aunt Eby. Lost Lake holds some wonderful memories for them as well as some tragedies.
It was lovely to see Kate use the lake as her anchor to restore herself, rekindling a romance from her past and letting her daughter be a child again through the magic of Lost Lake.
Lost Lake Cottages at Suley, Georgia, was almost a hidden place, discovered by people who needed its magnetism to recover from their own tumultuous lives.
It was a place where stories could have new endings each time the visitors went there over many years.
If you don't like the ending, you make up a new one."All the characters in the book have their own stories to tell.
Eight-year-old Devin discovered her own magic realism when she recognized a soulmate in the waters of the lake.
If you don't like the ending, you make up a new one."Eby Pim is the owner of Lost Lake - a quaint lakeside property with a bunch of cabin rentals.
And as Kate arrives at Lost Lake, its an entirely new world.
Other characters come into play and as their lives coincide, so begins a charming story about a bunch of misfits, a story of love, loss and redemption, a story about the power of choice, of belief and of lost chances and new beginnings.
*3.5 stars*For me, Sarah Addison Allen books are like a cozy blanket or hot chocolate: They are my comfort food version of reading, and I can't get enough of them.
However, while "Lost Lake" was predictably good and nicely narrated, it just didn't have the WOW factor of some of her other stories.I'll talk a little about the narration first.
I enjoyed the narrator, Janet Metzger, who expertly did a nice range of voices and throaty, Southern accents.
I enjoyed her soothing way of speaking and thought it worked nicely with the story.
It wasn't as powerful for me as her other books, but it charmed me nonetheless.
a beautiful story, with a sense of peace and hope in it...
and a touch of magic :)It's a story that's easy to sink into, a pleasant dream or a nice getaway with people to help you pass the time.
Eby is it's caretaker, along with Lisette.Everyone's story gets told here but it doesn't feel crowded.
she came to it in her own time, and I was very happy for her :).I loved the story, even in the slow spots...
Selma thinks no one likes her, but what she doesn't see is she does have friends if chooses to open her eyes.
I can always rely on Sarah Addison Allen to carry me away to a place I can get lost and submerge myself into a comforting read. Her light touch creating characters and setting with a sprinkle of magic makes this story sparkle. Lost Lake is about new beginnings and confronting the past to illuminate the future.
Some magical realism, a dose of comeuppance and a lot of heart made for a light, satisfying, read.She understood that the hardest times in life to go through were when you were transitioning from one version of yourself to another.This is a story about the haunting of the past, loss, longings, second chances, mending hearts and, to an extent, closure.
It’s the cast of eccentric characters, however, that really shines from Eby, the stalwart aunt with a heart of gold; to Lisette, haunted by the boy who committed suicide when she rejected him; to Buhladeen, the octogenarian with a penchant for the bottle; and Selma, seven times divorced and sashaying her way through town on her way to the eighth.
"Quando o nosso copo está vazio, não nos lamentamos pelo que desapareceu.Porque, se o fizermos, perdemos a oportunidade de o encher outra vez" (pág. 265)Também são assim os livros escritos por Sarah Allen. Não devemos lamentar termos acabado um, caso contrário perderemos a oportunidade de ler outro.
These two ladies have been coming to Lost Lake for years and cracked me up most of the time, I loved that the author gave us a good background on these characters and not just here they are.As with other Addison books there is some big time magical realism going on here in more ways than one which made this one unique, there are a few different magical realism stories here and they are so different yet the way they fit into this story is so well done that I believed it all.
“She understood that the hardest times in life to go through were when you were transitioning from one version of yourself to another.” [Wednesday, January 02, 2013] OMG!! Sarah has a new book!!! And it's due for this year! Thank God it's 2013!! I already put 5 stars and added the book to my favorites! I mean come on! Each of Sarah's books have lingered with me afterward and has been read and re-read so many times that there is no point of adding anything but 5 stars... I totally cracked the sp
Each of Sarah's books have lingered with me afterward and has been read and re-read so many times that there is no point of adding anything but 5 stars...
I can't wait, wherever Sarah wants to go is okay with me.[‎Saturday, ‎April ‎12, ‎2014] Last night, I read the last page of Lost Lake, and it filled me with longing and melancholy.
Her books stay with me for so long, not just as stories, but the feelings they give me stay.
I got a B&N gift card - it has Lost Lake written all over it - I finally picked up this lovely story, I read it in 1 day.
I was thinking it is about broken people fixing each other, then realized it is like Pink's song "We're not broken, just bent, and we can learn to love again" I loved every character, (well, except the Uncle).
I really hate loving a book so much I finish it in a day, sure glad I got it with a gift card!
To see how love is blooming at Lost Lake!
She impulsively takes her eight-year-old daughter to an old lakeside resort in Georgia owned by her great-aunt Eby. The Lost Lake was where Kate spent her "last best summer" of her childhood.
Kate finds Eby in the process of selling her property, and some visitors are spending one last time at the resort.
Kate's daughter helps unearth some secrets from years ago, and each visitor benefits from their stay at Lost Lake.This is a story about grief, healing, moving forward in life, and treasuring friendships.
"Lost Lake" is a light book that some readers would enjoy as a vacation read.
It's nice.I liked it.But I didn't love it.
I do no feel friendly toward them) but I think in this case, I got too wrapped up wanting to get to the end that I failed to appreciate the meat, ya know?
Again, I think the ending being so strongly apparent so soon in the story made me want to simply rush to get there and I couldn't because I listened to this and it goes at its own pace.It was a charming read, lovely and full of eccentric women which is always a plus, but, ultimately, I don't think this one will stick with me.
Driven by loss, grief and indecision, Kate goes to Lost Lake Cottages to give her daughter her last best summer.
There she reconciles with her great grand-aunt, Eby, the owner of the now decrepit Lost Lake Cottages, and her mute cook.
Just like Kate and her daughter, Devin, Lost Lake Cottages is also on its last best summer, so Eby invites three of the best long-time patrons of Lost Lake Cottages.
What was supposed to be the last best summer for all, becomes the race to save Lost Lake.My favorite part of the book is the Lost Lake itself.
Lost Lake is an old lake resort near a small town and is hidden away save for the people who magically find their way there.
I loved the blend of old nostalgia for what used to be, the intriguing moments of magical realism, people who have been lost finding their way, and of course love- one old and one a second chance for a younger pair.There is a large cast of colorful, quirky characters and the narration shifts between them all.
This does not affect my opinion of the book or the content of my review.‘Sometimes, all you need is something to believe in.’Kate has lived in a slumberous state since her husband passed away a year ago.
Nothing is as she would want it and she decides to take a spontaneous trip with Devin to Lost Lake, an unforgettable place where she visited one summer as a childSarah Addison Allen’s signature magical touches were present in Lost Lake but what was even more magical was her exceptional cast of characters.
The ending was a welcome surprise(I knew Selma had a kind spirit).Lost Lake is such an enchanting and engrossing book; it will pull you to Lost Lake and make you want to look for the alligator.
I received an advanced copy of Lost Lake and made me see the magic there is in front of our eyes, "Ever read a story that you simply can’t imagine how it will end?
The best things in life are like that." I'm looking forward to read other books for Allen.
3.5 stars  Arc provided by St. Martin's Press through NetgalleyIt's a universally known truth that i love Sarah Addison Allen writing style. I love the voice she gives to her stories, the way her characters are crafted and, basically the way she creates the most vividly real scenarios.She's definitely a word painter. She uses earth tones to do it, but then all of a sudden she sprinkles her canvas with fairy dust and enchanting elements that just leave me well and truly hooked. (This just baffles
I love the voice she gives to her stories, the way her characters are crafted and, basically the way she creates the most vividly real scenarios.She's definitely a word painter.
Do you remember how it starts?In this story, something bad happens to Kate, and for awhile she just shuts down...until the day she wakes up to life again.After that, it's Kate and her daughter Devin, trying to find another place for them in the world.The grief in this book, is the type of one, that almost makes people stop living.
Pursuant to that, my candid opinions follow.On the positive side, the author has a delightful sense of place and character.
The images she constructs of the "Lost Lake" are idyllic and serene and the sorts of places we'd all like to end up in our old age.
I despised Cricket and Lazlo practically from the first utterance of their names.To the negative side, despite all her carefully constructed place and person the story is terribly cliche.
Generally speaking I'm OK with the supernatural but the thread of it in this case seemed just a bit too brittle.In summary, I liked the book but it had its clear disappointments.
I received a copy of this book for free from St. Martin's Press via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.Lantern lights are basically my favorite thing in the entire world.. they really do create a magical atmosphere, so I was a sucker for the cover of Lost Lake and had to read it from the moment I saw it. Plus, I'm a big fan of Sarah Addison Allen. And I loooove lakes. Like heat from a fire, the closer to water you are, the stronger you feel it. What could go wrong?Lost Lake is set in Sul
I received a copy of this book for free from St. Martin's Press via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.Lantern lights are basically my favorite thing in the entire world..
What could go wrong?Lost Lake is set in Suley, Georgia, a middle-of-nowhere town where Eby and George decide to settle and run a summer cabin getaway.
Little does she know that Eby has almost lost hope for saving Lost Lake...
And George (Eby's late husband that you learn about through her memories) is the kind of man that is truly and purely good.
