https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/479740.The_Archidamian_War
The Archidamian War is the 2d volume in Kagan's massive history of The Peloponnesian War. This volume covers the war's first 10 years to 421 BC.
From the opening strategies of Athens' Pericles and Sparta's Archidamus to the exhausted Peace of Nicias and all the heroes and failures in between, Kagan never loses sight of the fact that history is made by individuals and social groups shaped by political ambitions.
The result is history as immediate and human as anything in our time.
This is magnificent history.
His footnotes are simply outstanding as just about every idea or theory of earlier writers are given credit or dissected.
If you have listened to Kagan's lectures at Yale (on YouTube for plebians such as myself), you can hear his voice leap off the page as he sternly admonishes a prior author's clumsy interpretation of events or gives credit where appropriate.
My only complaint concerns the poor quality and scarcity of the maps, but that is simply remedied by keeping a good atlas of ancient Greece at the ready.
In 1974 the standard of mapping was just not up to today's standards.
Do not read this book unless you are seriously interested in the Peloponnesian War. I was simulating a Spartan committee for model UN one year so I had to read it.
That disclaimer aside, this book is great if you're serious.
Kagan is a great scholar.
For me, undoubtedly his strength is the degree to which he dissects and explains the thought processes of the Athenians vis-a-vis the Spartans at each step of the war.
Both come across as highly cerebral, though, surprisingly, the Spartans seem much more the doves and the Athenians more the hawks.
My second Kagan history book.Not bad overall. It's not dry and Kagan does a good job (of what I assume is) presenting lots of information from the war. A few parts of the book did seem to move slowly, but part of me wishes I could go back in time to see those boats and crew rowing and sneaking by and all that jazz!
Meant more for a scholar than a casual readerThis book, nevertheless, is clear and concise. That is if you overlook all those Greek names ! I learned a bit about Ancient Greece as well how the leaders of both the Athenians and the Spartans conducted a war.
