https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/815263.Quick_as_a_Cricket
This book has the most fabulous illustrations that depict the adjectives described in the book.
This book is all similes that are comparing adjectives to animals.
This book can be read a very expressive way that helps to describe the adjectives even more.
I just can’t get over the illustrations, they are so descriptive and colorful, and they can be found on the author’s website.
I would hand them out to children in the class right before I read the book and as went through the pages of the book I would the child with that prop stand up and depict with their voice and body the adjective.
A hit with my three year old. We got it from the library, and within a few days he could "read" the entire thing to us or himself. I think it's the first book he's memorized in its entirety.The illustrations are great--big, lush, expressive. That's all it needs to be a great book in my mind. But in this case, maybe it will also help just a little with his current phase of insisting he's "happy all the time"--even through tears. And that would be a welcome bonus.
Great book get children moving with action and lets them know that their personality is made up of many feelings and it's ok to feel the opposite of one feeling or another,feel big, feel small, feel loud, feel quiet. We are all of these things and that's what makes us unique.
Definite toddler potential. It might be a bit too long for the really young crowd I usually get. So I'm looking at how to shorten, and also involve them without being too repetitive or, well, odd.8/2/10 I shortened the book, but I think this group could have handled it. They were a good group in joining along with the different animals. They liked the ending.8/4/10 smaller, younger, wiggly, and more distract-able group. Shortening it was a wise choice. Some followed, some didn't. Ending was still liked.
This is a good book that can be used for very young children.
Each page has a different animal as well as a description using an adjective of what that animal might be thought of being.
It has great colorful illustrations that could hold the attention of the children.An activity I would do is after reading and talking about the book, the children could draw a picture about themselves using different materials and write a describe that states what they feel are their capabilities or abilities.
And it can also be use for an activity about animals and learning about them and what they can do.
"Quick as a Cricket" is full of wonderful detailed illustrations. This is a very basic "all about me book" that young readers would love. The only character in this book is a young boy that describes himself using a variety of animals. For example he states, "I'm as loud as a lion." This book would be great to teach comparisons using similes. Also, this book would be a great model for the students to write their own "all about me" book.
Un copil se compară cu diferite animale, atribuindu-şi de la fiecare câte o însuşire, de fiecare dată aceste însuşiri vin în opoziţie una cu alta, sau ar fi complementare. Pictorul a lucrat mult şi a făcut treabă bună.
A wonderful short text with beautiful rhymes but AWFUL illustrations!!
Fun to read and as a read-along - catchy to say the least. Beautiful full page illustrations. Still quoted and my children are grown!
This formatting includes a metaphor, for example, “I’m as large as a whale.” Although this book uses very simple language, it would be great to read to young children when teaching about elements of speech, particularly metaphors.
However, this can be used during a read aloud and the child can guess what animal will come next; for example, “I’m as brave as a tiger, I’m as shy as a shrimp, I’m as tame as a poodle, I’m as wild as a chimp.” If the adult hides the page from the child beforehand, the child can guess that the word is "chimp," and then can see the illustration of all the chimps flying around the jungle.
This book is composed entirely of similes which makes it fun to read especially for young children.
It shows the differences in animals and how that each difference makes up this young boy and his personality.
I would highly encourage this book to be read to children before and preschool grade level.
I would use this in a science classroom when discussing different animal traits.
Students can be create and use new vocabulary words that describe different animals.
They can use these descriptive words and see if any of them match with their own personality.
Great short story that made many connections from the little boy explaining how he is "tough as an ox" and "loud as a lion." With these connections, children can associate two things together and even know something about that animal... they are also learning about metaphors! The color scheme was well done as each picture (colors used) set the mood. Great book, I give it 5 stars because children will be able to pick up on such easy metaphors and transfer them into their lives.
Message: You can be so many different thing and still be you; you are what you choose to be; you are dynamic and contradicting but you are you no matter what. I also love how it describes so many different animals. Then, you have the opposites like quick and slow, cold and hot, Brave and shy. Honestly you can do so much with book, it makes for a perfect classroom book. It's also fun and silly which is the most important part to the kids.
This book is an old favorite of mine that I read to my sons and look forward to reading to my grandkids. As everyone else has said in their reviews, the illustrations are magnificent. A great book for 3-4 year olds. It is also a wonderful interactive book for children. I liked to ask my sons to mimic the faces of the little boy and they loved acting "as loud as a lion" and "as wild as a chimp". A happy book!
This is one of the best picture books for children ever. This makes a great bedtime story book for very young babies to early readers. This is a wonderful story to read to children. This book has beautiful artwork, rhyme and rhythm to the words, and interesting characters to capture little imaginations.
I love this book. It is very simple with large pictures, but is great for introducing comparisons and adjectives. ("I'm as quick as a cricket") It's simplicity is appealing yet it also uses words that are a little less common in a preschooler's vocabulary. The young kids can enjoy the story and get in some practice using opposites.
Every page is colorful, one animal with a short sentence. The children will learn a lot of adjective words and animals, and will understand what is the meaning of simile. The young children will read it by themselves easily after hearing few times. It is a self book which let children know they can have many kind of characters.
The illustrations are vivid, detailed, and captivating. This book teaches comparisons of qualities, size, feelings, etc., using similes. The book is great for preschoolers, exposing them to new adjectives and names of animals. The theme of the book teaches highlights on a child's uniqueness and abilities.
The board book edition looses a star for me. Many of the illustrations are cut off, the story starts on the front cover and ends on the back cover- the library bar code covers it up. It’s painful to loose so much of these gorgeous illustrations. The charming similes and even rhyme scheme make it an excellent book.
I like this book because it is my son’s favorite book. This is a perfect book for read aloud to young children. They will learn many vocabularies and new words. Good illustration and colorful book. After reading this book to kids, the teacher could discuss with them about all vocabularies. For example, sad, happy, small...
his makes a great bedtime story book for very young babies to early readers. This is a wonderful story to read to children. This book has beautiful artwork, rhyme and rhythm to the words, and interesting characters to capture little imaginations.
Interesting illustrations. Lots of imagination and fun to be had in this book. The boy's traits about himself seem to contradict each other at times. But it might help to point out to children that they can be many traits at once and can call on a particular one in the right place and time.
A child talks about all the different animals and insects he is like. Beautiful illustrations with simple, easy to read words. My preschoolers LOVE this book! It opens so many different conversations with each of them. I will read it every year I am a teacher.
Great book of acceptance because it gives the characteristics of different animals, from slow, happy, weak etc. in a positive way. It compares and highlights each animal which children can relate to people. Great colorful illustrations and good moral behind the story.
I enjoyed the book, it gives good examples of the different personalities a child can have. The illustrations make it easy to retell the story. I believe this book could open up good discussions on how a child feels.
This book is full of descriptive words and different animal names. The children would be able to enhance their vocabulary while following along with a fun story. The pictures are colorful and entertaining to complete the story.
This book was delightful! I loved all the colorful illustrations and animals depicted throughout the book. The description was heavy which I think is important to have many adjectives in an early children's poetry book.
alliteration, metaphor, animals, beautiful illustrations
Incredible illustrations and simple words. This book is ideal for pre-school and young readers. It has rhyming words and lots of similes. Absolutely amazing!!!!
nice book and illustrations
