https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/120705.Alligators_All_Around
Quirky Maurice. This is his alphabet book with alligators. It is quite cute. The nephew wants to learn his letters and he thought this was a fun book. He spends time looking at the pages.I still enjoy reading Maurice. He has his own beat - for certain.
“Alligators All Around” is apart of the popular Nutshell Library by Maurice Sendak and it details a family of alligators showing the audience about learning the alphabet through various humorous phrases.
Parents should tell their children that it is not nice to push other children around and therefore, children should not imitate the image of the alligator pushing the children so often.“Alligators All Around” is a brilliant book about learning the letters of the alphabet in a creative way that will have many children enjoying this book for a long time.
Lovely book, but for the letter I- "Imitating Indians". Just not quite what I want to be modeling for this impressionable little babe.
Sendak. Caimanes. ¿Qué más se puede pedir?
I remember reading this book when I was a kid and thinking What is the deal with these alligators?
Like what's the deal with the kid alligator with the propeller beanie?
Any kid over the age of two knows that wearing a propeller beanie is a sure sign of juvenile delinquency.
Now just about everyone these days except for the fans of Clevelands' baseball team knows cultural appropriation is just not cool, but what is the deal with the young alligator smoking a peace pipe?
This version of the ABCs using Alligators as the main characters was perfect for 2-4 year olds. The pictures often depict little alligators being pretty naughty, the colors are more muted than typical children's stories but clearly illustrated by Sendak's unique style. The naughty little Alligators present themselves as good talking points to illustrate what not to do. Illustrator Project Book
Fun illustrations present a fun way for kids to learn or reinforce sounds of the letters of the alphabet. Although it has classic, two-tone illustrations, the clever poses and ideas will keep kids' interest.
I adore this book. I used to listen to a record (yes, record) of Carole King's musical adaptations of this and other Maurice Sendak books and I love, love, love them. Naturally this book takes me back to the days of records and not to mention Wonder Woman pajamas.
Love this book! If you enjoy a good ABC story and the art of Maurice Sendek how can you go wrong with this one! The alligators in the title are talso the actors bringing the alphabet to life.
Maurice Sendak's alphabet book will have young "readers" reciting their ABC's in no time.
(Baby to preschool) --Emilie Coulter (amazon.com))Professional Recommendation/Review #2: (George Hunt (Books for Keeps No. 73, March 1992) A modest but deceptively spacious quartet by Maurice Sendak, consisting of a book of months, a forward and backward counting rhyme, an alligator alphabet and a cautionary tale in verse, all cautionary tale in verse, all presented in a quaint miniature format.
The use of alliteration also helps with the flow of the book, making it an easy, rhythmic read for new readers.)Consideration of Instructional Application: (In the classroom, this book can serve various purposes.
Prose: Modern FantasyMaurice Sendak uses alligators to share the alphabet. Meant for young kids.
A playful, memorable book for a child learning the alphabet, and, best of all as an older person-- it is fun for adults to read, too. Each letter has a brief phrase spelt with that letter, such as, "keeping kangeroos", and "yackety yackety. The ever - iconic illustrations could easily lend themselves into creating a story, and inspiring a child to read into the pictures. A great addition to a child's reading list.
My favorite page of all is L looking like lions, where each of the alligator family members wears a hairy mane around his or her neck and creeps in a menacing way off to the left-hand side of the page.
I can't imagine how he pulls it off, but only Maurice Sendak could make alligators look like lions and alligators at the same time.For the most part, I think this book is brilliant and maybe even the best alphabet book I've ever read.
The opening page depicts the alligators with snouts pointed up, eyes closed, and hand claws purposefully bent towards the body.
And so, with the turn of the page, we are invited to watch as an outside observer the antics of this family.
They seem not to notice or care that the reader is watching, they are fully absorbed in themselves and their activities.Each page is bordered by a thin black line.
Large black typography sets off each letter while it is repeated often in the caption below.
The last page is a clever punctuation where picture and words synchronize together to emphasize the title...Alligators really are All Around.
This picture book looks at the alphabet with pictures of alligators using phrases that match what they are doing, as well as with the alphabet. The imagery is great and matches the content very well. I enjoyed how the phrases were done so articulately,that they were saying what the alligators were doing, witch would keep the audience engaged. I would use this in my class for early readers and students that need a little more help.
New York: Harper Collins, 1962.Take a bite into the life of an alligator, while learning your ABC’s along the way!
Sendak’s classic alphabet book uses fun alliterative descriptions of the alligators engaging in daily activities.
Moreover, Sendak’s unique illustrations enhance comprehension by demonstrating what’s occurring in the statement below.
While the images are a bit dated, they are so animated and full of life that readers will easily engage in them.
Alphabet books are so essential, for they are ultimately where the reading process commences; therefore, books that will engage learners and maintain their interest are key—Alligators All Around does just this.
This story is an informational alphabet book that teaches kids each letter in a fun and engaging way.
The alligators are teaching the alphabet in a song form so each page is meant to be sung as a song.
The book is written with the alligators almost performing in a circus and with each new letter they use different props to illustrate and show it.
The way this book is written and created is extremely engaging for students, students and children love the use of animals in books so to incorporate animals with an informational book is a smart strategy.
“Alligators all around” by Maurice Sendak is a book that will make you smile and make you feel so good about the world around you.
The book is an alphabet book but all about alligators and their day-to-day life.
“Alligators all around” is an alphabet book that teaches a lot.
The illustrations are absolutely gorgeously done and have the humour intact about them.
Maurice Sendak is a well-known children’s writer but I don’t think he wrote for children.
All said and done, “Alligators all around” will appeal to both children and adults and is a book to keep.
The illustrations in the book really help the children visualized what the alligators are doing during that time so they can connect that letter with that activity.Theme: The theme in this book would be that learning the alphabet can be easy and fun.Personal Response: I grew up with this book and I still have the copy that my mother would read to be when I was younger.
She would make the book kind of like a song, so when I would read it, it was kind of memorized by I still was learning the alphabet along the way.
Alligators All Around is an ABC book that follows a family of alligators through the funny and sometimes weird things that they do.
While you are learning about this family of alligators you are learning about the letters of the alphabet.
However, Sendak manages to create a cohesive story with the alphabet by using the same family of alligators.
The illustrations all contain a border to separate the reader from the story.
Each letter of the alphabet is placed below the border in the lower left-hand corner.
In Maurice’s final edition to this collection, he wrote an illustrated the alphabet book Alligators All Around.
The book personifies alligators and the lives they live.
Each letter is on a different page.
Each letter is used to describe something that the alligators do just like human.
The letter is that correlates with each page is very large and in both upper and lowercase.
In this book the colors are minimal again but he chooses to highlights the green.
The little alligator family acts out what each page says making to the non reader could possible guess that word that starts with the letter.
Maurice Sendak alphabet book, Alligators All Around, is beautifully illustrated picture book.
It was originally published in 1962 and recommended for readers between 4 and 8.
Maurice Sendak is a laudable author and illustrator.
He was awarded the Hans Christian Anderson award for his body of work but no award for this book specifically.
This cartoon alligator nuclear family is not always on their best behavior but they are always acting alphabetically!
Their behavior is sometimes silly and bad but they are alligators, so it is to be expected.
The book is charming and enjoyable but slightly older readers will get the most out of it, enjoying the alliterations.
This story is a family of alligators that teach their audience the alphabet in clever and funny ways.
They teach the alphabet in a clever way because they act almost as a circus performing how each letter looks with different props.
I would definitely keep this in class library and use it as a read aloud book.
This is an awesome way for me to teach the alphabet in one of my younger classes.
It is fun and engaging and could help students remember the alphabet better because we are singing and interacting as we read.
My son received this book as a gift from a friend of mine, and I'm a little embarrassed to admit that it is one of the first Maurice Sendak books I can accurately remember reading.
My son seemed to think the pictures were entertaining, and that's the important thing as he's a little young at this point to be learning the alphabet - three months is probably too young at any rate.
But they are classic Sendak and there is merit in that.
This is a classic ABCs book, but it isn't my favorite of the ones I have read so far.
Alligators All Around is an alphabet children’s book about an alligator going through the letters A to Z to help readers learn. This is another great book for a younger classroom. It will help them learn the alphabet and a lot of words that go with it. This is a fun book to involve the whole classroom and get them excited about reading. I thought this would be a great book for students around the age of 4 to 6 years old because that's the age where they are normally learning to read and learn the letters.
Alligators do things from A to Z.For the most part this is a pretty zany alphabet book with alligators doing some rather unusual and unexpected things. The I page will put this on the blacklist for many because it has the alligators imitating Indians (Native Americans). Perhaps it is a good teaching moment to talk about how to respect other cultures. The rest of the book is good fun and you could use this for teaching verbs.
I was looking for books with alligators as part of letter A week with Natalie. Maurice Sendak was something I had to check out. I was quite happy with this book. While hoping for an actual story, I really liked that this alphabet featured the alligators throughout and that it consistently used alliteration throughout. I felt that the actions and descriptions, even though so short, actually developed character of the alligators to some degree.
Each letter is represented with a picture corresponding to the two or three word phrase describing what the alligators are doing. I liked the fact that the words need some thinking, a beginning reader cannot read them all by guessing from the picture alone. He must use decoding. I didn't like the "I" page, "imitating indians," though. The alligators are even wearing headdresses, holding a tomohawk and smoking a peacepipe. Stereotypical and not politically correct.
I found this book on Goodreads, and decided to look it up because I had not seen it before. I found a video on Youtube with a song that went along with this book. I thought it was very good. It would be good for younger kids learning the alphabet or those students who need a review on it. It has good rhymes and has words that students can understand for the most part. It would be very beneficial to have this book in the classroom library.
Interesting that so many people get upset about I, which is for "imitating Indians," while no one seems bothered that P is for "pushing people". The appearance of an activity in this book hardly qualifies as an endorsement of the same. Sometimes alligators (and people, too) do things that perhaps they shouldn't. This alphabet seems particularly amusing to me as all of the entries in it are eminently relatable.
