https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24233708-an-absolutely-remarkable-thing
WOW! This was excellent! I honestly went into it very skeptical, but I am leaving this feeling super satisfied with every aspect of this story. I'm so happy that there's going to be a sequel, because that ending left me hanging! It was the ONLY thing I wasn't satisfied with.
I’ve just grown tired with John Green romanticizing the white heterosexual nerd’s quest for the perfect woman whom they win by using the longest most pretentious words possible, and I was very curious to read his brother’s work.Frankly, I expected to tumble into this book dissonant and harsh in my criticism—but what do you know...I actually liked it.
She is now a celebrity, hated and loved with equal ferocity, and when people start getting besieged by perplexing dreams of the Carls making, April takes upon herself the inconvenience of persuading everyone that the Carls are a peaceful entity and not whatever maleficent meaning many want to suit to their existence.April soon finds out that the fame that tied her to the Carls made the world—and maybe even her closest friends—love her a little less.
I just finished An Absolutely Remarkable Thing and it was great!! I had so much fun flying through this book. My booktalk will be coming later this week, I'm excited to discuss with yall!
I simply had to keep reading to figure out what was up with Carl.But I think my favorite aspect were the two discussions about fame as well as mistrust of change/"outsiders." The first topic was especially interesting to me as it was written by an online creator and, being one myself (though a much smaller one), I could semi-relate to it.Despite my excitement for this story, I had to dock off a little because I felt like Hank Green's writing from a woman's perspective felt a little off.
I'm going to write it so that the reader won't be able to tell when the exposition ended and the actual story starts.
Hank: *Whispers* There actually isn't really going to be a plot just a bunch of random scenes that are boring but kind of make sense.Publisher: Sounds great!
I'm going to start writing.Hank: One more thing, let's make the cover really pretty so we can trick the reader into thinking it's a good book.Publisher: I'll have the cover department work on that!Hank: Oh, one more random thing.
OH MAN. What a dang read. Shoot peeps. This one hit me really hard. It was one of those books where the second I finished it all I wanted to do was read it again.So I will. Soon. And you should too.
*I'm going to mull this over before I review/rate it because I've bounced around A LOT*
Fuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuck. This was SO. GOOD. SOOOOO GOOD. I love Hank so I was really worried that I wasn’t going to love it but WOW. What a phenomenal read. I need more NOW 😫
Okay where is my crash course squad?
April May is the snarky, relationship wrecking narrator who is unwittingly catapulted into the dizzying heights of international fame upon being the first to discover a randomly named “Carl”.
April becomes addicted to being first and staying first within the media both social and otherwise.
At first glance this seems like a Young Adult novel and it will excite this audience but there is a lot more going on than the plot might lead you to believe which makes it appealing to more mature readers.
This is a fantastical journey that leads one to an unexpected destination.
I thought these were strong characters, with original views, personalities, and voices, and I liked the way they worked together through the problems of the Carls.And while the message of the book was a blatant one, at times, it's perfect for the time.
This book was very focused on bringing people together across the globe; April realizes time and time again that working through a problem alone never solves it.
I needed a conclusion for April.Overall, I love the way this book is laid out.
Meh. It had a really cool plot but I hated the writing style. And that ending made it even worse for me. I did not realize this would be part of a series when I picked it up so I was expecting a satisfying ending, and it did not deliver for me. Bummer.
But I think I will just stick to the other brother of John for now oops.
Like April is an actual horrible person so why would I care about her?
This is BEFORE they think it's an alien.
Why would people even care (this is prior to the alien part, just keep that in mind).
I didn't care.
¯\_(ツ)_/¯ But I think what made me most disenchanted was April just being a total jerk at every opportunity.
Who she continues to use for solving alien puzzles but treated her like utter trash.) And I found the writing really dry tbh.Anyway.
I hate that people are calling this "young adult".
Stop it with the inane labels that turn people off instead of bringing them in.
Maybe it's a late 20s human that also enjoys reading the novels of Ernest Cline, Robin Sloan,Mira Grant, and/or Peter Clines.
OR maybe they're a thirty-something mom that likes to read fast-moving books about random robot-alien encounters.
Or maybe they're a forty-something that picked this one up because they also liked John Green and they thought this was his new book but realized after the fact that it said Hank -- and they won't be disappointed.
Don’t judge me as we all do this!🌟 Now the major problem in this book was its genre, I think it can be classified as contemporary/ Sci-fi which are two different and opposite genres.
I still don’ know if I am willing to continue it and only time will tell when book 2 is released.Prescription: for those who like both contemporary/ Sci-fi and looking for a good social media representation by an own-voice author (Given that the Green brothers lives has been changed by social media).
"Coming home from work at three a.m., twenty-three-year-old April May..."April MayNope. Ya lost me.
Buddy Read with Fellow Cardan the Furry Enthusiast "Carl is not a possible thing, and yet there he is, guarding the Chipotle, leading people to conclude that he was not created by humans." So ... just like I thought ... Trash.I went in to this with semi high hopes as everyone says that Hank Green is the Better Brother due to the fact that John just keeps putting out Not So Great Books. There was tons of hype around this book that I was gladly not involved in but I read this in favor of a friend
They completely ruined this amazing idea and I am still a tad angry.An Absolutely Remarkable Thing is about April, a normal girl who lives in New York, working an insanely annoying App coding job.
Sure we are, but DO NOT build up this book about science and potential aliens and robots and fame and hollywood ONLY to end it on Garbage.
But as someone who was read John Greens books for over 5+ years and having to deal with ridiculous characters who think they're so quirky because they don't do normal things, I'm just tired.
I knew it! I still listen to Hank and John Green's podcast, and a few episodes ago Hank teased an announcement. Totally nailed it with my guess it was going to be a book! Love both the brothers and the impact they've had on Internet culture. Hank is especially well-spoken and enthusiastic about so many important things, can't wait to see how this translates into a novel.*casually sells soul for an ARC**(...or at least a release date? C'mon!)
Amazing! RTC.
I do admire what Hank did in the book and making it realistic but I don't need that kind of realism right now.On that same note, I felt like a good portion of this book was like watching a Vlogbrothers video.
I also thought a lot of Hank's own experiences with fame and the pressures of his position in the media and with such a substantial following were dumped into the book.
Some ways it felt like a weird brain dump from Hank.
April was like the female version of Hank...and that's not necessarily bad but I struggled with some of the evangelizing that comes across in some Vlogbrothers videos and especially in this book.
*kicks down the door of every single person on the planet*   Y'ALL, GET A LOAD OF THIS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!   ngl i've always liked hank more than john and i'm so excited i think i'm gonna scream
This is a story about identity, friendship, and the effects of sudden fame.
We follow her through her journey.I picked up the book because I've enjoyed John Green's books in the past, specially TURTLES ALL THE WAY DOWN and THE FAULT IN OUR STARS.
The author of this book is his brother so I imagined I'd see John's influence in his work.Even though the premise was interesting I was not captivated by the novel and found myself skimming some sections.
Overall, it was ok, I would still recommend it to those who enjoy sci-fi, YA, NA, and contemporary fiction.
eu não sabia muito bem o que esperar desse livro e o que eu encontrei aqui, definitivamente, me surpreendeu muito.
eu passei boa parte da leitura com BIRRA da protagonista e dos personagens secundários que me pareciam rasos demais, mas conforme a narrativa foi me dando as peças que eu precisava pra entender a mensagem da minha maneira, fui ficando fascinado pelas ideias malucas de hank green.
assim que eu terminei a última página (berrando), chamei rafael para contar pra ele um pouco sobre o livro e fiquei quase 5 minutos explicando sem que ele entendesse nada.
I mean, it was fun and I love a good cipher, but it was very...moral, wasn't it?
Like, at the end, the message/moral (Good things happen when the whole world works together!
And April May, the protagonist—for as much as Green tries to dull her sparkle— is still a bit of the Manic Pixie Dream Girl, with the added bonus of being the Chosen One because even the Carls aren't immune to her quirky charm.But, as I stated earlier, it was fun and full of good ciphers and a great soundtrack and it is a debut, so some slack must be granted.
Gods know it's going to sell a bajlilionty copies, even if it's absolute crap.
And it's not absolute crap.
Kristen Sieh did a great job as April May and the tone of this book is so conversational that I think it was best read aloud.
There are so many thoughts about life, the goodness of people, fame and humanity here that scream Hank Green (obviously, and as they should) that having Kristen Sieh be the one to deliver those thoughts was great.
I think whether or not that is true for you will depend on your investment in the Carl mystery.
Even all said and done, I had more investment in April May than in figuring out what the Carl's were.
(I know people hate that.) John Green is a genius.
Hank Green is a genius.
5 novels and a long short story, several more books for the HPA and Project for Awesome.
who also wrote several books HPA and PFA but has not yet released anything but some wonderfully nerdy songs on his record label, DFTBA records...Until now!
But, never mind that, let's get on to my own creative efforts inspired by the matter, shall we?Warning:Nerdfighter Material AheadCause I needHank Green's novel Like a puppy sized elephant needs water And as I wait for a release dateMy need growsOh AccioBook titleIncendio The word 'untitled'I hope it lives up to all my hopesOh AccioA book by Hank GreenOh, AccioA book by Hank Green!And, Hank, I'll see you on my Followed Authors list.DFTBA
I listened to 100% of it on audio.The tone reminded me so much of Ready Player One, which was interesting because RPO has a male narrator and here we have April May, who is a young adult woman.
Because of this, I found reading this book on audio to be a great medium, so I would definitely recommend it.
something was missing with the way she was written but I can't quite put my finger on it.What I really enjoyed was how the book discussed Internet fame, building an internet community, and how we interact with others on the Internet.
I'm not going to lie: Green has some really good ideas about what it's like to be part of this worldwide Internet culture thing.
It's to the point where it almost feels like Green's liveblog musings (or maybe his podcast?
Ultimately, instead of a cohesive and well-considered book with strong plot points, it feels flabby and a vehicle for these blog post moments.
It just feels like the book is often nothing more than short blog posts made by Green himself and shoehorned into a plot.All I can do is shrug.
At many points in this book it almost felt more like a manifesto than a novel.
I loved this book and the things he had to say.
leaves open for a next book, so here's hoping) I want to read it again more slowly and fully take in the messages and comments on humanity that are there.
It made me think about the internet, and social media, and humanity.
I'll leave you with this - I recommend this book to anyone who is interested in humans and how we relate to each other, and the internet and social media.
Okay, so I'm basically dying but I think I have to livestream it maybe? You know... for my brand...This was really fast paced, had some really gripping moments and I totally get where Hank is coming from but 1) I didn't like the writing style (it was wayyyy to jumpy-ish?)2) A lot of what was happening was just absurd or strange or both3) the protagonist was just so mean and stupid sometimesNevertheless I was very entertained but you just can't expect this to be the perfectly deep and clever book I was expecting.
