https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/379255.Monsieur_Proust
She was thirty and she thought her life was over.But Céleste lived on to be ninety-two and kept her memories to herself for most of that period in spite of many requests for intimate details of her life with Marcel Proust.
The result is very readable and we suspect that Georges Belmont is the very best kind of ghost writer, almost invisible yet very present in a practical way.For those who have read and revelled in Proust’s work, Céleste’s memories are the perfect way to regain a little flavour of the world of A la recherche du temps perdu.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Monsieur Proust, Céleste Albaret Céleste Albaret (née Gineste, 17 May 1891 – 25 April 1984) was a country girl who moved to Paris in 1913 when she married the taxi driver Odilon Albaret.
The most regular of Odilon Albaret's regular clients was the celebrated novelist and critic, Marcel Proust.
Lonely and bored in the grand city, and at her husband's suggestion, Albaret began to run errands for Proust.
Céleste Albaret, Marcel Proust's majordomo and jacqueline-of-all-trades for the last ten years (or so) of his life, 'wrote' this memoir in the 1970s.
But probably another layer of removal is implied by the fifty years which passed between the events of the book and Albaret's recollections.
But nothing is more damaging to her claim of nearly exhaustive knowledge of Proust during the final years of his life than her insistence that he was not a homosexual.
If you've devoted a significant chunk of your life to reading all of A la recherche du temps perdu, then make time for the additional four hundred pages of Monsieur Proust.
Un cuore semplice (?)"Oggi, prima di lasciare a mia volta questo mondo, l'idea che possa rimanere un dubbio o una menzogna su tutto ciò che ho visto, e che è la verità, mi è divenuta a tal punto intollerabile che voglio dire, una volta per tutte, che le pagine che seguiranno sono l'esatta ricostruzione della mia memoria e che ho a tal punto riesaminato, controllato e riverificato i fatti da avere la certezza dell'assoluta fedeltà alla realtà di quel che accadde.
Monsieur Proust vi è idealizzato, si è detto, Céleste non è sincera e tende a negare alcune evidenze della biografia proustiana (la sua omosessualità, in primo luogo).
Allo stesso modo, ogni volta che devo risolvere un problema personale, prendo consiglio dal suo ricordo, e la decisione mi viene facilitata.
Il sentimento di Céleste è dedizione e fedeltà assolute, ammirazione, tenerezza; aderirà totalmente non solo al suo stile di vita giustificandone le stravaganze e le piccole tirannie ma anche al suo modo di guardare al mondo crescendo accanto a lui e maturando nel tempo spirito di osservazione acutezza di giudizio ed una memoria sorprendente che le permette all'età di 82 anni di rievocare con assoluta sicurezza dettagli e circostanze.
As it is, however, we do have the memoir that she dictated to the Kitty Kelly of her time and place, in 1972, at age 82, fifty years after she stood by her employer's bed as he died.What is clear in the text, at least, is that Celeste Albaret possessed an extraordinarily rare trait of personality.
Let us say that if this memoir is true even in the remotest sense, then we owe the existence of Proust's novel to Celeste Albaret.
Albaret took up her employment just after Proust had completed Swann's Way, and remained with him until he died.
The fact that she was 80 years old should not necessarily be an issue as I have met a few folks that are still very lucid at that age i.e., long-term memory is not the issue that short-term memory is.There are others that have written some things that are not in agreement with Celeste, but she was in a position to know.Marcel was definitely an unusual character, but in my mind not an odd-ball as some suggest:especially considering his chosen line of work.I found myself actually choked up as this book came to an end.
After reading The Year of Reading Proust, I remembered that I hadn't quite finished reading Celeste Albaret's Monsieur Proust.
It goes without saying that all of us who read In Search of Lost Time loved Celeste Albaret.
It also goes without saying that this is a must read for any Proust reader.
Readers will always be in debt to Celeste for this account which righted the wrongs of the many rumors that surrounded Proust's life.
Proust.We all have our memories and after reading Proust and like Celeste and her Monsieur Proust, they will always be to us "a source of happiness, almost of exaltation."Bon nuit.
Proust liked sole, served on a napkin, if he ate at all.Sometimes he drank one coffee, sometimes two.Proust did not use soap, only dabbed his face with a towel.He brushed with tooth powder, which on occasion sifted down to his tie. But, as he remarked, no one saw him for his ties.Proust kept the hours of a vampire.He should have left his housekeeper some money.
Felt fully engrossed in this fascinating biography. I can't decide if Céleste had an impossible crush on Proust or if she was a saint, in which case she ought to be properly canonized.
No final, depois de terminar ambas as leituras, e apesar de aceitar que o mundo do romance é imaginário, ele tem tanto de Proust, que só podemos aceitar que o que Proust almejava para a sua arte, foi inteiramente conseguido.Fecho com algumas das citações que mais me marcaram na leitura do livro, embora não cite nada da fase final do livro, dos últimos dias e horas de vida do escritor, porque foram de uma leitura extremamente intensa, além de acreditar só fazer sentido serem lidas por quem já leu a “Busca”.As memórias, sempre as memórias.Celeste: “Peut-être que, s’il a lutté ainsi contre le temps pour terminer au plus vite, c’était qu’il pressentait la fin de tant de choses qu’il avait aimées et qui n’étaient déjà plus que des ombres de souvenir, alors que, lui-même, il était pressé par la mort.”Proust: “Les fleurs représentent l’amitié et l’amour qu’on porte aux vivants ; les morts n’en ont que faire.
Kayıp zamanın izinde serisinin yazarı kibar, çekici, gereğinden fazla tutkulu ve naif Marcel Proust.
Céleste ise onun sadık hizmetkârı, annesi, kardeşi, arkadaşı her şeyi olmuş.
Eserini yazarken de çok yardımı dokunmuş ve ondan izler taşıyor.
1913 yılından ölümüne kadar 9 yıllık süreçte, Proust’a dair aklında ne varsa, ne biliyorsa ve yaşadıysa hepsini aktarmaya çalışmış.
Proust’un annesinin yerine koyduğu, hayatının son yıllarında ve eserini yazarken her anında yanında olan ve her isteğini yerine getiren Céleste.
Sanki Proust’un yanındaymışçasına okudum tüm kitabı.
Kahvesini nasıl içtiğini, ne zaman uyuduğunu, nasıl yazdığını, sohbetini...Bence Kayıp Zamanın İzinde serisini okuduktan sonra okunmalı.
Çünkü öyle güzel detaylar var ki, bunları eserini bilerek okumak daha verimli olacaktır.
Men på Prousts anmodning gjorde hun det alligevel, og hun sammenligner sin første oplevelse af soveværelset med dét at befinde sig inden i en enorm vinprop ”på grund af de korkpaneler, der var sømmet fast med lister over det hele for at holde alle lyde ude”.Céleste Albaret måtte vende op og ned på alt i sit hidtidige liv for at kunne tjene Marcel Proust – til en begyndelse døgnets gang, for han arbejdede om natten og sov om dagen.
”Og det faldt hverken ham eller mig nogensinde ind, at jeg måtte være træt!” Célestes betydning som fødselshjælper i forhold til det litterære ’barn’, der nærved og næsten nåede at blive født inden Prousts død, kan derfor ikke overvurderes.
Entregar en propia mano se consideraba de suma elegancia y el escritor siempre se caracterizó por ser encantador, delicado y seductor.Cuando estalló la Primera Guerra Mundial, Odilón se enlistó en el ejército y, Madame Céleste se fue a vivir a casa del escritor como sirvienta.
La época en que Madame Albaret sirvió a Marcel fue el último decenio de la vida del escritor, cuando salía poco de su cuarto y se dedicaba únicamente a escribirlos 7 libros de "A la Recherche du Temps perdu".Céleste y el hermano Robert Proust, acompañaron a Marcel hasta el momento de su muerte un 19 de noviembre de 1923.Los recuerdos de Madame Albaret sirvieron para desmontar muchas ideas preconcebidas sobre el escritor.
It's a biography as dictated by his "personal assistant".
Proust the artist was sui generis, Proust the person and employer was if anything more so.
Then one day after the war-it was his sole concession to fashion, if it were really a concession- he decided to have a sort of Charlie Chaplin moustache, though not without considering the question and talking about it to me.
They say I should have a Chaplin moustache!
"Dear Celeste, do you think I look foolish with this little toothbrush under my nose?" "No, on the contrary, Monsieur, It really does make you look younger."He was delighted..."
Marcel Proust's housekeeper and companion for the last ten years of his life, Celeste "wrote" this book 50 years after his death.
She obviously was devoted to Proust and loved him, and only decided to speak after all the "lies" she was hearing about Marcel.
She does seem to have had some insight into his work and in particular, how he felt he had to live his life in order to produce this work.
Proust's whole object, his whole great sacrifice for his work, was to set himself outside time in order to rediscover it."
An intimate and affectionate biopic of Marcel Proust' s last 10 years of life. Written when Mme. Albaret, Proust's housekeeper, was 82, the story she tells of her employer, their employment relationship, and her employer's eccentricities is quite charming. At the same time what she reveals is guarded by a continuing loyalty to M. Proust. Not surprisingly, her role as housekeeper gave her no insight into the writing or publication of In Search of Lost Time.
حالا مي فهمم همه تلاش و جستجوي آقاي پروست و همه از خود گذشتگي اش براي خلق اثرش، براي اين بود تا از سويي بتواند خودش را خارج از زمان قرار دهد و از سويي ديگر، بتواند زمان را دريابد. وقتي سكوت برقرار است، زمان وجود ندارد. او به اين سكوت نياز داشت تا فقط صداهايي را كه مي خواست بشنود، همان صداهايي كه در كتابش آمده
حالا مي فهمم همه تلاش و جستجوي آقاي پروست و همه از خود گذشتگي ‌اش براي خلق اثرش، براي اين بود تا از سويي بتواند خودش را خارج از زمان قرار دهد و از سويي ديگر، بتواند زمان را دريابد. وقتي سكوت برقرار است، زمان وجود ندارد. او به اين سكوت نياز داشت تا فقط صداهايي را كه مي خواست بشنود، همان صداهايي كه در كتابش آمده
An absolutely delightful memoir written many years later by the young woman who was Proust's housekeeper during the last few years of his life. When Céleste was newly married to Proust's driver, he suggested she run errands and perform the odd task for his employer. This soon turned into a full-time job which lasted until Proust's death.
Marcel Proust's Haushälterin erzählt wie es "wirklich" war. Unglaublich interessant. Celeste war in den letzten 10 Lebensjahren die "Frau" in seinem Leben. Haushälterin, Botin, Mutter, Vertraute...Unverbrüchlich solidarisch und und und... Für Proustianer ein wichtiges Buch - unbedigt lesenswert.
انطور که باید نبودسلست آلباره شاید به خاطر علاقه شدیدی که به مارسل پروست داشته در برخی صفحات و خاطرات ستایش بیش از حدش محسوس
Turns out I loved it, and to this day when I go to the donut shop I always come away with a box of donuts for the family and a low fat blueberry muffin for me.After reading Marcel Proust’s Swann’s Way, as well as some articles about Proust, I decided to pick up Celeste Albaret’s recounting of her years working for Monsieur Proust.
OK - truth be told, the back cover of the book was a lot like mom’s wrinkled nose warning me off that low fat blueberry muffin, but instead of “low fat” the words of warning were “suicidal,” “monstrous,” “horror,” “physical revulsion,” “madman,” “deforming,” and “repugnant.” I’m not a teenaged boy anymore, so this time I hesitated.Turns out I loved it!
I have really fond memories of carrying Proust around strange corners of Europe some ten years back but actually didn’t know that much about his life it, and so this lengthy series of reminiscences by the author’s maid were a lot of fun. Reading of his deathbed creativity I couldn’t help but be reminded of the great James Dewitt Yancey, more popularly known as J Dilla, who’s final torturous months were given over to the creation of Donuts, in its own way as seminal a work as À la recherche du temps perdu.
I nurture a noisy obsession with Marcel Proust, so I was excited to read this book, a memoir by his housekeeper, who was perhaps his closest confidante for 10 years.
So… it is what it is, and it is a valuable glimpse into the quiet, interior life of one of the world’s greatest writers, but I wasn’t in love with it.From the beginning of the book:“For fifty years I refused to write the story of my life with M.
The reason I finally changed my mind is that so many inaccurate and even completely false things have been written about him by people who knew him less well than I did or even not at all, except through books and gossip.
I was so curious about Proust's personal life because I have read that he spent most of his hours in his room, seldom leaving his apartment.
She could imitate his voice to perfection, and Proust himself said to her, "You know everything about me." Her reminiscences of her employer present an intimate picture of the daily life of a great writer who was also a deeply peculiar man, while Madame Albaret herself proves to be a shrewd and engaging companion." Nuff said.

این دو ستاره هم فقط برای این است که کتاب درباره‌ی مارسل پروست است و یکی دو مقطع مهم از زندگی او را - که در کتاب هم اثرگذار بوده- از زبان شاهد زندگی واقعی پروست (با فرض اطمینان به روایت شاهد) می‌خوانیم؛ یکی ماجرای دیدار پروست از تابلوی «چشم‌اندازی از دلفت» و دیگری شرح پایان گرفتن کتاب و پس از آن مرگ پروست.
اینها روی هم می‌شوند کمتر از ۳۰ صفحه از کتاب.از روی خیلی صفحات کتاب سرسری گذشتم و حتا بعضی فصل‌ها را جا زدم.
اینکه مارسل پروست چه پاپوشی در خانه می‌پوشیده یا شیرینی‌اش را می‌گفته از کدام شیرینی‌فروشی بخرند برای من اهمیت خاصی ندارد.
Proust's is one of those stories that you enter with the knowledge that you may never understand the whole truth.
Despite Celeste Albaret's obvious and affable biases (such as her refusal to talk about Proust's sexuality as anything but hetero), she provides an important narrative on the last ten years of Marcel's life in which the celebrated writer spent most of his time in bed writing 'In Search of Lost Time.' Readers are enriched with his daily habits, the kinds of spaces he inhabited, his peculiar wants and needs, and profiles of the people who would later fill out his characters.
Just like Proust's books, I wish I could read it all over again with fresh eyes.
1/کتاب «آقای پروست»، خاطرات 8 سالِ پایانیِ زندگی مارسل پروست – از 1914 تا 1922 - از نگاه آخرین خدمتکارش؛ سلست آلباره است.
نکتهای که درمقدمه هم اشاره میشود اینست که خاطراتِ این دوران بعد از 50سال نوشته شده، زمانی که آلباره در حدود 80 سال داشت.
احتمالا در این فاصلهی مطول او میان نوشتن و ننوشتن ملعق بوده.
و در نهایت نوشتن.
و سبب این تصمیم » خیلیها چه به علت عدم دسترسی به حقیقت و چه از روی مهارت و زیرکی در بیان واقعیت وسواس به خرج ندادند.
اولین ایراد کتاب از خلال همین تصمیم برمیآید «نوشتن و بیان حقی
اولین ایراد کتاب از خلال همین تصمیم برمی‌آید «نوشتن و بیان حقیقت؛ اول برای پیشگیری و بعد رفع سوء تفاهم‌های پیش آمده، سوء تعبیرها و نیز برداشت‌های ناصواب».
این جزئیاتی که مستقیماً به پروست مربوط نمی‌شود برای خواننده کسل‌کننده است.
از اینرو شرایط موجود و خویشتن‌داریِ حتا خودِ آلباره، نزدیک شدن او را به پروست برای فهمیدن هرچه بیشتر اندیشه‌هایش دشوار کرد، و سبب شد این موقعیت بکر از دسترس خواننده خارج شود.
بهرحال نمی‌توان انتظار داشت آلباره بیش از اندازه بتواند به پروست نزدیک شود.
نمی‌توان از او انتظار تحلیل و بررسی عمیق پروست یا حتا اتفاقات پیرامون او را داشت.
This dictated and translated memory of Celeste Albarets' 8 years with Marcel Proust is a wonderful read.It is also a bit intractable to believe.
Perhaps she cherished those years of her life so much and she worked on her memory dutifully.
Since his life and work revolved around memory that isn't a wild leap of logic.
In her absence a whole mythos of the man was created by people with whom he spent precious little time with...
This book is a wonderful read and would reccomend to anyone who is interested to learn of Proust.
Non c’è nulla che la sua fedele Céleste tralasci di appuntare, nulla che non chiarisca, nulla che non riporti fedelmente per proteggere la memoria del suo caro Signor Proust contro coloro che hanno cercato di “fare della letteratura” raccontando falsità sul suo conto.
Infatti, la grande verità che questo libro ci consegna, per cui non smetterò mai di ringraziare Céleste tra me e me, è che Proust, per scrivere una delle più grandi opere letterarie sull'Uomo (quello con la U maiuscola, appunto), non ha mai avuto bisogno di giudicare; ha voluto semplicemente – con costanza e sacrificio, fino al giorno della sua morte – osservare.
