https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7023554-sizzling-sixteen
Book Review  3 of 5 stars to Sizzling Sixteen, the 16th mystery in the Stephanie Plum series, published in 2009 and written by Janet Evanovich. I've come to expect laughs and kooky characters in these books, and this one is full of them. But other than that, it wasn't as good as the rest. I'd even say this is my least favorite of the bunch. The laughs are wonderful, but the substance is declining due to the rush to put them in the stores and on the market. That said, I won't focus on all the n
Book Review
3 of 5 stars to Sizzling Sixteen, the 16th mystery in the Stephanie Plum series, published in 2009 and written by Janet Evanovich.
I've come to expect laughs and kooky characters in these books, and this one is full of them.
you know what to expect.
Vinny's not my favorite character either.
I read one more after this one and then took a hiatus from the series around 2011.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
I write A LOT.
And now I blog A LOT.
Many thanks to their original creators.
The Stephanie Plum series jumped the shark about ten years ago, after book six.
Those first books are some of my favorites of all time, however, so I keep going even though I ought to know better.It bothers me that Stephanie's never getting older, and she doesn't get wiser.
And at this point, there's nothing "sizzling" about her attraction to Ranger.
Ranger has weird, stilted dialogue, and all of their flirting is robotic and unnecessary.
I keep hoping one of these years Janet Evanovich will announce the series is ending.
I know Stephanie's been good to you, Janet, but move on with your life.
Haha I love how critical people are about these.
Yes, the series is very formulaic.
But if you're reading it for something other than that formula, then you're an idiot.
In lieu of a review, here's one of my favorite passages, in which Lula is speculating about what Vinnie (who has been kidnapped) is up to:"He could be in the morgue."Connie shook her head.
"All the cops know Vinnie.
Or they could have taken him to a butcher shop and chopped him up into little pieces and put him into the meat grinder," Lula said.
"I'm gonna eat this jelly doughnut next.
I love jelly doughnuts."
frankly, i don't know why i'm putting myself through this.
masochistic urge to see if evanovich will finally put us out of our misery?
i swear, if she goes all the way to 20 i'm going to start writing her hate mail.** turned out the audiobook gods didn't want me to put myself through this either, a few tracks in the 2nd disc squelched to a halt and i'm letting myself off the hook.
lula shoots at people for no reason3.
lula eats more donuts4.
lula eats more donuts4.
lula shoots at someone else for no reason4.
ranger rescues stephanie & lula5.
Not that you'll spend a lot of time reading--the book was printed with large margins & big print to disguise the fact that there isn't much book.
Hard to believe anyone would want to save a sleazebag but Stephanie, Connie, & Lula do & it's the same-old, same-old.
After the car crash, Hal says to Stephanie, "No disrespect but you've done better."The same can be said to Janet Evanovich about this book.
Save your money--if you absolutely have to read the book because it's next in the series, borrow it from the library!
I know I'll read this because I've read all of them, but I read the first 2 chapters online last weekend and I was not impressed.
I've read so much better stuff from people who can't get published that this reheated mix from Evanovich seems especially unfair.
Hopefully I'll feel differently after I've read the whole book.Well, I didn't.
Same ol' stuff.
I know I used to like Stephanie and care about her.
Now it just seems like nothing happens.
There was a point where she was in a car, thinking that she should screw Ranger and then marry Morelli, and all I could think was "Fine!
I do realize that the Stephanie books are supposed to be fun, easy, light reads, and maybe I’m too hard on this series and expect a lot more than I should, but the past few books have been big letdowns.
This happened in 15 as well, and a little of Lula goes a long way.I truly don’t know what to think about Steph and the triangle anymore.
I’m a Joe fan, have been since book 1 (doesn’t mean I don’t enjoy a hot Ranger scene or two or 10) and I have a hard time understanding why these 2 guys keep hanging around while Steph is her usual undecided self.
I read the reviews on this before I picked it up, so I wasn't expecting much.
I was thinking I would just get through it in order to know what's going on for the next book.
And, I have to say that the negative reviews were right:it was boring, with tired old jokes and a love triangle that is getting really old.
And, is Stephanie actually getting dumber?
I know Lula has, but I swear that Stephanie is regressing.But, on the good side, there were a few good moments towards the end of the book, and I made my way through it pretty quickly.
I really like these books even though they all have exactly the same plot:-Stephanie is super cute and hot (despite eating only donuts and fried chicken) and all the guys want her, even though she thinks she is mostly average-Although she is the worst bond agent ever, keeps her gun in her cookie jar, and loses every skip she goes after, she somehow manages to always save the day and only sometimes has to call one of her two boyfriends to help her-Her two boyfriends are both dreamy but totally different from each other.
She totally wishes she had a checkered prostitute past.When I just want a fast, escapist read, I know exactly what I'll be getting into.
I went and re-read the Plum series before starting this book.
It had the laughs the intense scenes with Ranger, and of course Morelli.
But it's the Ranger that sells this book for me.
I know many are Morelli fan's but there is something there with Ranger that Steph needs to explore before she walks or in Janet's case, keeps dragging it on forever with no satisfaction.
Steph has her usual I hate my job and I don't know what I want to do with my life, melt downs, and constantly ponders over what she should do with the two men in her life.
If Evanovich has realized that Lula is the draw, write a story that showcases her in a substantive way instead of just a barrage of dumb jokes.
And Stephanie is completely stalled, her life is exactly the same in every book now.
Her lines in this book, her encounters with Morelli, Ranger, her parents, Lula and Connie, Grandma Mazur, all could have just been copied from previous books.
Running jokes from previous books are usually fun, but out of context and taken to the extreme, it's just rediculous.
She had a lot more depth in early books, and potential to be a great long-term character.
I loved it when it first started, but now, at 16 books strong (they're bestsellers), I am getting tired of the SAMENESS of them all.Stephanie Plum is crappy at her job as a bonds agent.
She usually finds of her targets, often captures them with the help of Ranger, a hot security consultant, and even more regularly ends up in some kind of embarrassing escapade.
She wrecks one or two cars.This happens in EVERY BOOK.At some point, it would be nice if Stephanie Plum grew up and matured.
The Stephanie Plum books evidently happen in some kind of weird alternative world in which time moves, but never forward or backward.
I will continue to love this series, silly love triangle (of sorts) or not because it never ceases to make me laugh out loud and have a good time.
It was like we traveled to some alternate universe where Lula's Firebird somehow survived a bomb from previous book, Stephanie/Lula/Connie somehow made a decent burglars, and Lula actualy had something wise to say.
Connie and Lula volunteer to help out, and together they devise a plan to rob the guy that got Vinnie and return the money in exchange for his safe return.
I still can't believe they pulled that off."I got my gun, my pepper spray, my flashlight," Lula said.
"And then I got my other gun and a bread knife.""I have an Uzi and the stink bombs," Connie said.
The last time I read this book, I wasn't all that keen on it, but, this time, I loved it!!
How many writers get the fun of saying Hobbits are related to Munchkins?
Then there's Mooner back, and this time with Hobbits, add a yard sale with dynamite and pot brownies, it's one ridiculously funny thing after another.
(Tee hee) Excuse me while I go check out some yard sales.
I'm looking for 'baked' goods.Reread May 2018 — still loving this book and still looking for a yard sale with Mooner brownies!
Every time I finish a Stephanie Plum book, I tell myself I'll never read another one, but here I am, with the newest one. At least it's a quick read.
Loved it! This whole series is fantastic and I can't get enough of it. For me, it never gets old!
I have read books from this series before but I think I love this one the best.
Like Lulu with her tightfitting clothes and ample bosom, with sequins or glitter on her shoes.The dialogue was priceless with every character having their own style of talking that went right along with their unique style of dressing.The situations were so crazy too, I won't tell you about that because it would spoil your fun.This story seems like an incredible ride through ridiculous situation, one after another.
I would say, the kind that makes you want to hold onto your hat.This particular book didn't have any steamy love scene in it, it was on the verge several times.
The reviewers were all comparing this book to the others in this series.
I have come to love you as a real woman in my life so it pains me to say that after reading this, your sixteenth tale of er...adventure, I feel our relationship is coming to an end.Let me explain a few facts of life to you.Something needs to happen in a story apart from witty dialogue and a lot of driving around.After sixteen books, I'd just like to see you apprehend a felon once.
Let your creator know the gig is up and you want a real story with meat on its bones...oops...now I'm getting hungry.Let Morelli and Ranger go off to their shared bliss and get yourself a hot new romance with some actual sex and no whiny discussions about toast in Book 17.Please.Love,AJ.
Yes, it's a little embarrassing to admit that I've read all of the SP series (but not the between the numbers books).
They make me laugh and it reminds me of reading a comic book when I was a kid, without the pictures.
The new book comes out every year around June 21 which is my wedding anniversary and coincides with a trip we take each year at that time that cries out for summer reading.
SP is a guilty pleasure.After reading: this is my last investment in this series.
The first 5 or so were funny and light and silly, but still a little mystery.
I hate so say this more than you know, but I was SOO disappointed in "Sizzling Sixteen." If you read the liner notes, Vinnie was supposedly staying with Ranger, but got kicked out due to "overextending" himself on pay-per-view porn, and that didn't happen in the book.
But sadly, there wasn't anything too funny in the whole book.Also, I am over Stephanie being such a dolt at being a bounty hunter.
:-)I also think that ignoring -- for the most part -- Stephanie's family was a real shame.
Sadly, I did none of this while reading "Sizzling Sixteen."
Stephanie Plum, Lula, Grandma Mazur, and the rest of the gang are back in a brand new adventure.
When Vinnie is captured by some mobsters who he owes money to, it is up to Stephanie, Lula, Connie, and Ranger's team to track him down and save him.
Read on and find out for yourself.This was a great installment of the Stephanie Plum series.
I'll get back to books 13, 15, and the rest of the series at a later time.
You can find this book and the rest of this series starting with One for the Money at your local library and wherever books are sold.
So I am going to be bold and different today and just list the top 16 reasons why I, Giovanni Gelati of Gelati’s Scoops, don’t just enjoy, but love Sizzling Sixteen and Janet Evanovich’s style: ( without including spoilers)Number 16: The ending, I thought it was the most complete one yet.Number15: I can safely say that this is a great summer read for the beach or at poolsideNumber14: Mooner, Mooner, Mooner- need I say more dude or dudette.Number13: I can actually share this novel with almost all my daughters (all except my 11 year old)Number 12: When I read her novels and laugh out loud my wife doesn’t look at me funny; she actually understands.Number 11: When I get one of her novels, I am all of a sudden my daughters’ favorite dad and receive much more attention than usual.Number 10: The place of my birth, Saint Francis Hospital gets another mention for their great care and ability in the area of knife and gunshot wounds.
*sigh* ...and Ms. Evanovich adds yet another story to her numbers series where Stephanie almost gets with Ranger for a split second, but doesn't.
*ahem* So, apart from my Ranger frustration, these books seem to be getting more and more formulaic.
Add some new quirky side characters and voila you have a Stephanie Plum book.
It seems like there was more depth to the first nine or ten books.
Like you really felt that Steph was in danger at various points throughout the story.
Now, it's just crazy shenanigans and running around the whole time.
Ah well...maybe she'll get with Ranger next time.
Yes I'm reviewing the book before I'm finished but that's only because I accidentally saw some of the negative reviews and feel I have to say something.
When reading these types of books you have to expect that it's not going to be Jane Austen literature.
If you're looking for Stephanie to finally make a committment to Morelli or Ranger than you are missing the point of the books and you should stop reading them.
Crap I just became an online ranter...Just finished.
It was as expected.
I think I have read it before.
I blame the fact that I read this on my terrible chest infection. How many times have I sworn off this series? But sometimes, all you want in the world is a new book exactly like an old book, you know?Plus one star for a moment of actual clarity. Plus one star for the thing with the alligator. Minus a star for repetitiveness, sexism, racial stereotypes, and complete failure to move! Fucking! Forward!Okay, I’m really done this time. No really. Really really. I swear. If you see me backhere again next summer, kick me, okay?
If you want a laugh out loud good time the Stephani Plum series can't be beat. A quick read full of action and characters. I can't wait for the movie to come out.Grandma Mazur is a kick and the men in Stephani's life are to die for. One caveat. . .don't read in bed as your partner will get angry because you are keeping them awake with your burst of giggles that shake the bed!
Like many other fans have mentioned, these books have become pretty predictable and have been relying on the love triangle and the laughs to keep propelling this series.
Either end it on a good note, or work hard to continue writing in a form similar to the earlier books.
Things are starting to get slightly interesting.
As others have previously mentioned, something needs to happen with this sick love triangle.
I was a die hard morelli fan, but i feel he has become too controlling and he lost most of his flirty nature that was present in the earlier plum books.
Although, I'm starting to see that Lula and Grandma Mazur have a lot in common .
In "Sizzling Sixteen", Stephanie and Lula are up to their usual "barely getting the job done" tricks, with all sorts of twists in the plot.
I'm eager for #17 - hoping before it's all done that Stephanie Plum will choose between Ranger and Morelli.
I recommend the the Stephanie Plum series to anyone who likes a fun, easy to read novel with some mystery/suspense, a healthy dose of romance without mush, and a set of characters who are as quirky and messed up as most of us in the real world.
Janet Evanovich's Stephanie Plum books are those brownies.Sizzling Sixteen follows the general formula of the others.
I had my way, I'd spread sauce on him and work him like a rib.”) A few bad words here and there, lots of bad guys, and countless trips for fast food, especially to Cluck-in-a-Bucket.In this one, Stephanie's boss gets kidnapped because of bad debts.
As slimy as he is (“Vinnie was like a fungus on my family tree”), Stephanie still feels she needs to save him.
Just like those brownies, you don't want too many in a row but one now and then is a nice treat.
