https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17961.Collected_Fictions
It is only when we think that we control words, when we we think that we know with some certainty what they really, really mean, that they become dangerous.
Speaking and writing words does not control them but spread them like a virus coughed into a crowd.
So humility is the prime virtue of the writer who knows he is controlled by every word he uses.
He tells the truth by letting us know he lies with his words.
He humbles himself before his words in order to become their master.
He is more clever than words because they don't know how to be humble.
As I wander around the site, what I find most fascinating is not star-spotting (they tend to be shielded from prying eyes anyway) but the many and varied pre-production activities needed to make the magic of cinema a reality: building sets and props; puppet-people in motion-capture suits; food carts for the crews; the whir of industrial generators; cabling for light and sound; the making of costumes, weapons and jewellery.
Even this "real" version of the story is illusory.
But an impression will live on in the digital realm and people's memories.
Without such immediate first-hand initiation, anybody, no matter how well read or intellectually savvy, not matter how well traveled or wise in worldly things, will forever remain on the outside looking in.Terence McKenna, an American ethnobotanist and field researcher who has made a lifetime study of the use of plants with psychedelic properties by tribespeople and indigenous cultures, upholds the Secret refers to religious practice based on the use of hallucinogenic plants that have existed for millennia.
In the prologue to Artifices, Borges comments:Of “The South,” which is perhaps my best story, let it suffice for me to suggest that it can be read as a direct narrative of novelistic events, and also in another way.The main character is Juan Dahlmann, a mixture of German and Spanish ancestry, whose life is mundane but who dreams vaguely of a more romantic life, inspired by the Flores side of his heritage and the Flores ranch in the South that he owns but has never visited.
This isn't the most philosophical of Borges' short stories, but I think it's one of the most accessible ones and, thankfully, it has an actual plot!
“You who read me, are You sure of understanding my language?” Jorge Luis Borges, “The Library of Babel” Even though I read Borges’s  “Collected Fictions”  in Spanish, my native tongue, I have to confess I didn’t understand half of it. Presumptuous of me to think I would. Famous for being the founder of postmodernist literature and influenced by the work of fantasists such Edgar Allan Poe and Franz Kafka, whom I adore, I was naive enough to assume I would be able to untangle Borges’s labyrinthin
Jorge Luis Borges, “The Library of Babel” Even though I read Borges’s 
I was also deceived by the apparent simplicity of the tales which turned out to be complex, condensed and thought provoking meditations about philosophical and existential issues.Borges’s enormous erudition, which might be appealing to others, worked the other way round for me, leaving me mostly frustrated by the multitude of literary allusions from cultures around the globe which I struggled to connect with the meaning of his surrealist inventions.
Do yourself a massive favor and read Borges. He can deliver more plot and twists in 2-5 pages than many authors do in 300. Every page will blow your mind as you loose yourself in the brilliant labyrinth of his words. Read it. Now.
Add to that the Apocryphal  nature of his writing– fake reviews of fake books, interpolations from known-fake sources– & his stories become forbidding mind-benders: as Borges remarks in his Paris Review interview– Most of those allusions and references are merely put there as a kind of private joke.Labyrinths, mirrors, dreams, doubles -- so many of the elements that appear over and over in Borges' fiction are symbols of the psyche turned inward–  it's hard to escape solipsism and alter egos of Borges as blind librarians, diffident, celibate, middle-aged academics & writers people the stories– Borges and I, The Other, August 25,1983 are outstanding stories in this regard :Here's Borges having a laugh at his own expense in August 25, 1983: I realized that it was a masterpiece in the most overwhelming sense of the word.
One of his persistent themes is the relative reality of literature, and I always think of Richard III; there are two of them: the monster in Shakespeare's play and the slightly-less-monstrous asshole in real life.
Whereas in Ficciones Borges wrote papers about imaginary books, now it sometimes seems like he's writing abstracts of the papers about the imaginary books.
Others ("Shakespeare's Memory") stand up to his best stuff easily.As I told Alasse below: I feel like I've been waiting for Borges all my life.
Islam tells us that on the unappealable Day of Judgement, all who have perpetrated images of living things will reawaken with their works, and will be ordered to blow life into them, and they will fail, and they and their works will be cast into the fires of punishment.Only Borges could possibly have made such a statement at the beginning of a short story called “Covered Mirrors” under “The Maker” (1960) in this multi-faceted selection of mesmerizing and fascinating short stories.Why I began with “The Maker” which is halfway through the book still deludes me but I’m glad that I began here.
Fame is a form--perhaps the worst form--of incomprehension.I can recall the first time I discovered the name Borges.
Like many a reader and a number of Borges characters, I was never the same.
Some tales like Pierre Menard and The Aleph I must have read 15-20 times in my life.
While I've maintained my love for such episodes as Death and the Compass (see the film starring Peter Brook) I have cultivated an affection for the subtle Borges, the gnawing uneasiness which is both philosophical and all-too-human.There were certainly times poring over these abstracts of imagined books when I not only felt like an illiterate swindler but also that the text would never cease, both like the Book of Sand as well a paged equivalent of the Blue Tiger, forever multiplying in my grasp, like some curse of abundance.
Jorge Luis Borges Collected FictionsBy Luis Borges (1899 -1986)Newly translated by Andrew Hurley, this volume includes all ten editions from 1935 to 1975of Luis Borges short stories.Borges’ characters are murderers, knife fighters, throat slitters, liars, evil and violent, and in his favourite themes, we meet gauchos, Indians, blacks and mirrors, leopards, tigers, books, libraries, infinity and the human identity itself.The majority of these ‘novelitas’ are inspirations from existing works of a variety of ancient or contemporary authors.He took the detective story and turned it into metaphysics, he took fantasy writing and mixing it with everyday reality, central to his works of fiction.He created wholly new and original fictions.
Reading Jorge Luis Borges's Collected Fictions is like being thrown into the ring with a merciless prize fighter, getting the shit kicked out of you, and loving every minute of it.These pieces felt more like punches than short stories.
Borges jabs to your head, jarring your brain with damning conversations with his future self, invented libraries of the Universe and stories that make you feel like a lost kid on your way to Algebra class but accidentally ending up in Trigonometry.
There were times, in certain stories, where my head spun and I wanted to drop to the canvas and not get up.
They are pretty books.Just for a heads up because I wrongly shook my head when I saw other folks reading Borges and not reading this whole-shebang collection of fictions.
Still, if you can have all of Borges’ fiction in one 565 page volume (a short novel), why wouldn’t you?
But you’ll want to do this :: every last time you ever hear anyone mention a title of a Borges short story you will and you must and you will find yourself immediately rushing hither to read that story.
If a Borges story is mentioned in even the most passing of fashion, you’ll want to be familiar with it.
His stories read like Lit Crit and it doesn’t take long before the reader finds themselves in the middle of a hall of mirrors.There was a time when I felt that part of the function of literature was to help create myths that would help us understand the world we live in.
Years ago I tried to free myself from him and went from the mythologies of the suburbs to the games with time and infinity, but those games belong to Borges now and I shall have to imagine other things.
But it's his own fault, really - nobody asked him to go blind, or to be a librarian, or to become captivated by labyrinths and books (which are of course the same thing).
Borges can be difficult, dry, and pretentious, but nobody turns those qualities into virtues as well as he does.Collected Fictions is itself several of the objects described within its pages.
In particular, I suspect it is the Zahir (an object that once glanced at eventually consumes all thought) and the Encyclopedia of Tlön (a book describing a fictional world that our own world is beginning to tranform into).
One of the most famous lines in Spanish literature is this: Nadie lo vio desembarcar an la unanime noche: “No-one saw him slip from the boat in the unanimous night...”(‘A Note on the Translation’, from Selected Stories, by Andrew Hurley)‘No-one saw him disembark in the unanimous night...’ (‘The Circular Ruins’, from Labyrinths, translated by James E.
How is Hurley’s version (and yes, as Hurley and Borges both state, there are only ‘versions’) an improvement on Irby’s?
And while I know it’s impossible to be ‘objective’, especially having read the earlier versions tens of times, my impression is that ‘Streetcorner Man’ is by far the more poetic/iconic title.But let’s leave that line of argument: ‘better/worse’.
There are few other writers whose work has lingered in my mind to the same degree as has Borges.
His short stories are a metaphysical perfume whose aroma, so startling and heady upon the first inhalation, arises, unbidden, at certain points of thought or recollection, working its peculiar and powerful transformative and transfigurative memes upon the seemingly stolid principles that order our universe.
The Library of Babel wrenches the brain like a sudden stop upon a dreamy hexagonal rollercoaster; The Immortal, with its revoltingly abnormal architecture and gibbon men of Homeric lineage, an inky nightmare asleep in the vast, scorched wastes of the desert, haunts tessellated thoughts and turns them to dusty interludes.They exist to be read and reread, magical literary beans that invite whatever Jack dares them to clamber up the stalk their taut text weaves.
I experienced, as I had at other times in the past, the resignation and relief we are made to feel several weeks before final exams, and final paper due dates of the semester.
I reached out to open my room door, and then, as I stepped inside and let my gaze shift from the glass in my hand to the desk, there occurred the first of the many surprises the night would have in store for me - I was already sitting there, with a book in hand.
“বোরহেসের পরতি আমার পরবল অনুরাগ, পরতি রাতে তাঁর লেখা পড়ি। বুয়েনোস আইরেস থেকে একটিমাতর জিনিসই কিনেছি আমি আর তা হল বোরহেসের রচনাসমগর। আমি যেখানেই যাই আমার সযুটকেসের ভেতর খনডগুলি থাকে, পরতিদিন পড়ি, এবং তিনি এমন একজন লেখক যাকে অপছনদ করি; কিনতু পাশাপাশি, তাঁর গলপগুলি ফাঁদতে গিয়ে তিনি যে সুর আর সবর বাঁধেন সেটা আমার ভীষণ পছনদ।”-গযাবরিয়েল গারসিয়া মারকেজ এই বই সেই বই নানা বই পড়ার ফাঁকে অনেক সাহস করে একদিন ধরে ফেললাম হোরহে লুইস বোরহেসের “Collected Fictions” বা সমগর কথাসাহিতয। আর পড়ে গেলাম এক গোলকধাঁধায়। প

Borges is a literary mathematician but he has no understanding of the human heart. Still, it's impossible not to be curious what his equations create.
In any case, I found a copy at a thrift store, have realized that funny/joyous books can be important and fascinating, and, luckily, the fiction isn't as open to self-congratulatory critics saying things like "Borges knew all along that trying to help poor people results in evil, see?" He wrote three kinds of story: metaphysical tales, which take place in an imaginary world or in which someone has a super-power or Arabian Nights style trinket (special bonus: Borges convinced me to start on the 1001 Nights, and it is *fabulous*); literary critical tales in which the same kinds of things happen, but in a book that somebody's reading; and stories about gauchos.
I had to return this to the library before I could fully finish it, but it gave me some real "food for thought" as they say, when it comes to writing.
Borges writes like a fascinating dinner party guest who has been everywhere and seen the most amazing events, recounted in loving, glorious detail and all the more wondrous for being from the point of view of someone humble.
I've been taking some risks with my own writing since I read this and I'm grateful to him for rubbing some of the didactic sheen off my eyes.
The absolute bible...a twisting labryinth that changes everytime you read it and slowly infects all you read.
When I thought of short stories, Jorge Luis Borges' 'Collected Fictions' leapt at me.
I first discovered Borges years back, when I read a review of one of his books, probably this one.
This was one of my favourite stories in the book, because it reveals new secrets with every new re-read and the ending is brilliant everytime.
Some of the other stories that I loved from the book were : 'The Circular Ruins', in which a strange man ends up in the ruins of a temple and he tries to dream of a human and bring that human into the real world.
These cut across the hit-or-miss biographical sketches in A Universal History of Iniquity; Ficciones, perhaps the most overtly philosophical of Borges' works; the globe-trotting The Aleph and Other Stories, which furthers the argument from the famous "Two Kings and Their Two Labyrinths" that there's no better place to get lost in than the wide-open world; the deeply personal sketches of Dreamtigers; the surprising realism of Brodie's Report; the nostalgia and mortality of The Book of Sand; hell, even La memoria de Shakespeare is all sorts of reflective.
Themes of death would come up in Borges' later poetry (some of which is as good as his best short stories), but the preoccupation of it on the Book of Sand makes it one of Borges' most lingering and unjustly overlooked works.
My initial disclaimer is that there is no way to do justice to a work of this magnitude in a single review, just as there is no way to do it justice after only a first reading.Anyone who has read Borges will recognize common objects that show up continually in his writings such as labyrinths, gauchos, knife fights, war, jaguars, and books (some of which are fabricated).
With my new found insight, I will now read translations of non-English works in a new way.
I was hesitant to post anything about this book. Given the stature of Borges it would have been easier just to pretend that I'd never read it. Well, the truth is I hardly did read it. I found his style impenetrable. For me there was no way into these stories, I was just stuck on the outside, with a book full of words on my lap.
It was good, often great, but dense like fudge and required careful reading when fresh (not the half awake bed-time reading that I like to do).
The gauchos, the Europeans, and all the various settling, re-settling and skirmishes and battles all are told in great “fictions”.
The mirrors, the labyrinths, the great libraries of the ancient world and, mostly, the word itself are told fastidiously and creatively.
Often it was dreamlike, other times simply new, fresh and primitive.
I struggled, yet was improved, by the language of another time and a place (often the late nineteenth century) that was foreign in culture.
Superlative. I think of him as science fiction. Like... Yoon Ha Lee. Intellectual intrigue and the spirit of adventure. Few 20th century titans are as fun as this. A reader's writer (he wanders byways of everything ever written, everywhere); a writer's writer (just terrific craft and hauntingness). This translation often took me by the throat; I can't remember the last, I see there's controversy about translations.
Wow.
3.75 starsHaving read some unique stories in his “Ficciones” (Everyman’s Library, 1993) translated by Anthony Kerrigan et al., I thought Borges has amazingly written something mysterious, fantasy-oriented and sometime astonishing as his readers, especially newcomers, would see if they try browsing through some from 101 fictions in this book.
337)And third, “The Rose of Paracelsus” is a truly fantastic story of an aged master hoping to have a disciple.
One night a stranger came and challenged his magic arts.
507)In brief, if one likes reading to find mystery, fantasy and astonishment, these fictions are for you.
I was intrigued and bought this particular book, an English translation from the original Spanish of this Argentinian writer.First thing I realized was, that the guy who recommended Borges had never really read a word of Borges!
Because he never told me what these stories were *really* about, and was probably fibbing from second-hand accounts.These are interesting exercises, experiments in narrative structure and ideas.
The exploration of Infinity makes an appearance in many of his more famous stories.
And so do simulation, recursion and many ideas that perhaps software engineers are more comfortable with but which don't often appear in the realm of literature.Borges' life reflected the irony of his books.
The irony was not lost on him.
A subtle blend of literary forms; some well-rendered scenarios, a few sketches, stories offering profound understanding of culture and human interaction, and the occasional speculative flourishes that bring magic into the entire affair. A scintillating collection of finely polished stories if ever there was one.
I'll review each segment of this collection separately:A Universal History of Iniquityhttps://www.goodreads.com/review/show...The Garden of Forking Pathshttps://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Artificeshttps://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
This is a really interesting yet flawed collection of short stories.I don't have much to say about this volume, as a matter of fact.
The fact that there are dozens of short stories collected here makes it hard for me to review.
One of Borges' most famous, and one of his best stories, is "The Library of Babel." The idea is that there is a library that contains books with every single conceivable combination of words, punctuation, etc.
The story is basically an exploration of this idea: are there books that say virtually the same thing as each other?
Borges writes philosophical fantasy and sometimes mystery stories.1.
It's a simple short story about Borges's identity as a person versus as a writer that I enjoyed.2.
The Garden of Forking Paths (4 stars)- One of the things that is particularly interesting to me about this story is that its concept of time has been hypothesized by the multiverse theory of physics.
The Library of Babel- (5 stars) Amazing thought experiment/ work of philosophy.
Shakespeare's Memory (5 stars)- I love a lot about this story.
I love Borges's conception of personhood.
The Story from Rosendo Juarez (3.5 stars)- Sequel to a Man on a Pink Corner!16.
To read Borges’s Labyrinth is immerse myself in a magical world where the concept of infinity manifests in space and time, where the boundary between dream and reality fades, where the past and the future converge into an instant, where levels of texts superimpose on one another, where fiction imitates nonfiction and life is a drama on stage.
I recommend Labyrinth to anyone who wants to dream of magical worlds, who wants to reflect on reality and fiction, who wants to analyze the boundary between text and the interpreter, and who wants to contemplate on the nature of infinity.
There are no two ways about it, in my mind Jorge Luis Borges is the greatest short story writer to ever live.
I have never read any of his longer works, but I have also never read short stories written by anyone else that can hold a candle to Borges' obvious talent with the medium.
After reading his better stories you an do nothing but sit and marvel at what has just happened on that page in front of your eyes.
I think I simply lack the ability or talent to explain just how wonderful his stories can be, and so you simply must READ THEM AND THANK ME LATER.
A recent conversation I read online regarding sympathetic narratives told from the point-of-view of the monster, e.g. Grendel, led me to read this brief short story.It tells of the myth of the labyrinth, and the Minotaur within that Theseus slew, but Theseus is only mentioned in the last line -- (view spoiler)[“Would you believe it, Ariadne?” said Theseus.
The translation I read -- the author wrote the story in Spanish -- can be found online here, and is well worth the few minutes it would take to read it.
Twists, turns, tricks, intrigue, illusion, imagination, mystery, murder, mysticism, dreams, death, departure; duplicate lives, parallel lives, circular lives, forks in space, forks in time, forks in reality, fiction is truth, truth is fiction, all is one, one is all, everything is now – and it is all here in a hundred or so entertaining short stories and vignettes. Some are mind bending, some are unfathomable, some are sinister, some are comic, and some are mundane. Worth the effort even if by the end you are not sure who you are or why you started.
Best review I've seen on this book. Jorge Luis Borges-Collected Fictions BOOK REVIEW by Better Than Food: Book Reviews
Borges is a magician.Do yourself a favour and read this.Not everything in this collection is perfect, but the best stuff here more than makes up for the lesser parts (and they are still great).
Lovecraft wrote about New England (my home) where Borges mostly wrote about Argentina (somewhere foreign to me).Location and language is another factor that I feel like I have to bring up in this review.
I feel like I can't fully understand everything Borges wrote in these stories.
This book is translated in English, but at times I feel like the translation is off.
I think it's because Borges was a translator himself and langues, as these stories show, are important to him.This isn't a book I'd recommended to others unless I know exactly what you like.
A Sui generis.In the preface to the first collection of stories in this book 'A Universal History of Iniquity', Borges says, "Reading is an activity subsequent to writing: more, resigned, more civil, more intellectual" and over the course of the book you realise that above everything else Borges was a voracious reader, a prodigious consumer of stories himself, of information, of ideas.
In the stories of widows of pirates, of a man dreaming a man into existence, of a library the size of the universe, of mirrors, of men terrified of mirrors, of a man who can not forget anything, of a Kafka-esque drama summed up in 6 pages, there's ideas twisted and turned and stretched and decorated and unadorned.
‘A Garden of Forking Path’ is Borges at his best and rereading it always brings out something new.
How loaded a notion for Dr Stephen Albert to be so informed yet so clueless.
This is a humble homage:In a possible present,I found a way to reach,The end of this listless,Silence and speech,To weave anew,Ideas in matrices,Myriad or few,Doused in a mist of,Known and unknown,The flight of infinity,On wings that have sewn,Shut the door to weariness and stasis,Made of a tapestry of old, familiar faces.This circular rhyme looks over an endless,Array of godly men and mortal gods,And vengeance,That broils in a motley cauldron,Of broken dreams and penance.So come away for comfort,On one marbled dawn,Search for it in my words,Or merely bank on,Their truth or their jarring,Empty drawl.For in a possible past,I languish and fall,And lose this battle,So tired I sprawl,In a state so shriveledAnd drained of its youth.But for now, my helpless darling,My craven truth, is your craven truth.
Borges offers me a place to sit and wonder with myself.
I love somewhat exotic and fantastical worlds that are based in sense.
The other thing that I love about Borges is his totally playful attitude.
But when I think of the author, or think of some of his better stories "The Lottery in Babylon." or "The Garden of Forking Paths" among others that other people have mentioned time and again I see eyes that are twinkling with wit and a sense of attempting to fool the reader into thinking they are safe.
The world, unfortunately, is real; I, unfortunately, am Borges."
