https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15937108-counting-by-7s
Those friends are the siblings Mai and Quang-ha (who is also seeing Dell for his disruptive behaviour) who end up convincing their mother Pattie to take care of Willow temporarily.Willow is a special person: she is a 12-year-old genius, obsessed with nature and with diagnosing medical conditions and who has found it difficult to deal and connect to people until this tragedy has forced her to.The story is centred on Willow’s specialness – despite her oddness she is extremely endearing and moves everybody around her that they all end up changing their lives for the better.
A second can feel like forever if what follows is heartbreak.  Loss. It’s a universal state of feeling. While it’s true that it doesn’t spare anyone, people react differently to it. Still, society has provided us with five stages: denial, anger, bargaining, depression and acceptance.Willow knows this. She is highly gifted. If she could, she would spend entire days studying nature. She can tell you you’re ill just by spending ten minutes in your company. So of course she’s aware that one day los
It’s a universal state of feeling.
While it’s true that it doesn’t spare anyone, people react differently to it.
So of course she’s aware that one day losing her adoptive parents won’t hurt so much.But that doesn’t make her feel better.
One cannot suppress their current emotions just by thinking that in a few months they won’t feel this way.
It’s no wonder human beings can feel such various emotions.
The story is creative but realistic; the characters are authentic and likeable.
The only thing I struggled with was the shift between 1st and 3rd person narration styles.
My friend, Colby, has been raving about this book for months, but I was afraid it would make me cry. It did, but not in the ways I expected. This heartbreaking story is filled with laughter, hope, and light. Willow is an unforgettable character and her story will resonate with anyone who has suffered loss or change. The secondary characters are interesting and well-drawn. In a sea of great middle-grade books this year, Counting by 7s is a standout.
“When you care about other people, it takes the spotlight off your own drama.”  I didn’t give the cover much thought aside from thinking it’s cute but after reading the book, just looking at it forms a lump in my throat that if I didn’t control would certainly leak out of my eyes. *sniffs* Willow, an incredibly smart young girl represents the lone red fish in the cover swimming in a different direction as she loses her sense of balance, direction and meaning after the accident that took the li
“When you care about other people, it takes the spotlight off your own drama.”   I didn’t give the cover much thought aside from thinking it’s cute but after reading the book, just looking at it forms a lump in my throat that if I didn’t control would certainly leak out of my eyes.
“And that is why the deepest form of pain comes out as silence.” I’m not giving the book five stars because some parts of the plot and even Willow’s character are quite unbelievable but I’m very forgiving in this case because it’s a middle grade book.
This is one of those treasures recommended for ages 10 and up that I believe everyone can thoroughly enjoy, not just older elementary and middle-grade people.
I can't imagine the person who would not be charmed, then completely smitten with young Willow, who at the tender age of 12 has her world shattered.
Those touched by Willow intuitively and impulsively stand a little straighter, try a little harder and become more generous.Few books have the ability to render sobs, then a smile, but this one does.
They've been weird, because that's what it means to be hanging out on the edges of the curve, and for some of them I've taken a deep breath, crossed my fingers and hoped for the best for them in middle school.
But sometimes weird isn't the best thing to bring along for your adolescence.So it is for the main character of our book.
She has no friends, but has such a stalwart attitude, and such high hopes for middle school, that I couldn't do anything but love her.
The writing struck me as an older YA, but I'm not sure the older YAs will want to read about a 12-year-old girl.
I totally adored this book and its characters.Counting by 7s is absolutely a heartwarming novel that tells a realistic and profound story of a girl who lost her adoptive parents in a car accident.
A sweet and sad story of a genius child who just wants to make friends and love them and be loved back.I bought this book for the fact that the main character, Willow Chance, is a genius.
At first she's like a common child out there who do the things she wants but after her parent's car accident, it is prominent as the story progress how she grows as a child, who just don't think about scientific and intellectual ideas but also wonders about peoples' emotions.
and near the first half of this book -- so I wasn't tired -YET- of this child's chatter) Willow loves plants, the color red, observing medical conditions, and counting by 7's.
Her life at school gets enmeshed with her school counselor, Dell Duke, the Nguyen family, and variety of characters....that has us look at race, and different cultures.
Most kids - and adults -might benefit having a dictionary near by to keep up with Willow.
It's also a story which inspires others to have passions, interests, do personal research, and make a difference in life.
There is no such thing as a perfect book.But I believe pretty strongly that there IS such a thing as the right book at the right time for the right person.Counting by 7s was the right book at the right time for me.
And for that reason I will probably love it forever.But it certainly isn't a perfect book.
Because the cast of the characters here, and the story of how they came together, was perfect.
Yes, there were times when the author's voice came through too loudly in Willow's narrative, but all in all she was a MAGNIFICENT protagonist.
It had a very magical world sort of feel to it, a bit of fairy tale in its oddness.
They kept saying she was a genius, but except for a few offscreen things (passing tests for adults), you never felt that.
Also, before her parents' deaths (which, how odd to have the diagnosis scene right before that?
So this was probably all going to happen no matter what?), she sort of seemed to have OCD (ie, counting by 7s to calm herself) and perhaps be on the spectrum.
Commonly found when one is trying to cope with things.
That felt odd.
The whole thing felt odd.
As middle school prodigies go, she's slightly less realistic than Susan and Mary Test, and significantly more problematic than Early Auden, whom I've already complained about at length.That might work if it were played for laughs, or if it were in some kind of larger-than-life tall tale, but Counting by 7s is ostensibly contemporary fiction with no fantastic elements.
However, the book is set in Bakersfield, California, and according to the Official California Bird Records, there has never been a recorded sighting of a green-rumped parrot (or parrotlet, which is what it's usually called) in California, much less a flock of them moving into someone's backyard.
It's hard to garner five stars from me.
Four stars?
If Goodreads had seven stars, I would award it just that.This is the story of Willow, a genius who simply has never fit in-until tragedy strikes and she is forced to find her niche in a world that simply doesn't seem to have space for someone like her.
This one is a page-turner, and will surely be a winner as a read aloud.Absolutely stunning.
Counting By 7's is a must read for any upper elementary, middle school or even high school teacher/parent of that age group.
This book has been on my To-Read forever and I was so excited to finally get to it.
However, this book was definitely a disappointment.
There was nothing interesting about her advanced understanding and obsession with learning because when her parents died (that is not a spoiler...
it happens right away) her obsession with learning and growing stopped.
The author focused so much on other stuff that it took away from learning about the main character."Willow Chance is a twelve-year-old genius, obsessed with nature and diagnosing medical conditions, who finds it comforting to count by 7s.
3.5 starsI'm a bit disappointed in this.
It started out with a flashback that didn't end for about 50 pages, and I loved everything then.
The main character is so smart and quirky and such a role model.
Her bright and intelligent personality went away, and I couldn't make sense of a lot that happened with the plot.
I didn't understand a lot of the character interactions, why certain characters were being highlighted and followed.
Regardless I love the character development and now I feel really inspired to learn a new language lol
Willow is a 12-year-old prodigy who's been adopted by parents with very little other family.
-RANT-Let me get this out of the way first: I loathe dead parent/grandparent books.
I know that Willow is a girl that usually reads more nonfiction, but a lackage of dead parents in middle grade literature??
This book has the caring, overworked case worker; the preference for young adorable children and a small glimpse of a group foster home, which, was a little glossy to me (seeing as the one my teenage foster daughter came out of was a run down home in a run down part of town that had some of the counselors on site smoking as much weed with the kids than they could find at school).
Okay, I've read this book so many times and love it so much that I figure I should write a review!I really just love this book so much, so if you insult it, we can't be friends.
I am in love with this book.It is a YA realistic fiction, bordering on middle grade, but to make myself feel better I'm calling it YA.The main character is unique!
Not well maybe, but I am going to try.She's super smart, and a bit of a lone wolf, at least at the start of the book.
She is brilliant and underappreciated in her world, but I loved reading about her!
I read this book last year but it was a really good book.
The entire time I read this, there was an arhythmic thumping in the back of my head.
It was (I think) an un-cadent tattoo to remind me it seems like I've read variations on this book's theme a dozen or more times.
(It doesn't help that the book I've just started reading after this one (The Goldfinch by Donna Tartt) has nearly the same exact plot points as this one, just written for a significantly more mature audience), An overfamiliar theme (a child's grief after losing his or her parents) is not the reason why I rated Counting By 7's so low, though.
I'm not crying YOU'RE crying. Oh goodness. This book was so ridiculously amazing. The cover doesn't really do it justice in my opinion but it's such a beautiful story about how a girl changes five people's lives and I LOVED it. It also had some pretty strong Matilda vibes (she even loves the library!) so if you're looking for the next Matilda, read Counting by 7s!
A decent book about moving on from a life-altering tragedy. But the plot's a bit generic and the author's attempts to make Willow look smart are forced sometimes. 4/5 stars.
E' un libro molto particolare, soprattutto perché Willow e Mai diventano amiche grazie a uno svogliato consulente scolastico incaricato di seguire Willow e il fratello di Mai, sua madre, Pattie, si ritrova a diventare custode temporanea per una ragazzina che non ha mai conosciuto e finalmente Dell, il consulente, inizia a cambiare.E Willow tocca la vita di molte persone.
Pattie, alla quale dà consigli sul suo salone, Dell, che inizia a prendere in mano la propria vita e a migliorarsi.Ciò che mi ha colpito di più è stata l'intelligenza di Willow.
It feels SOOOOooooo good to be so into a book that the only thing you want to do is read.
And it's a great feeling to finish a book in a day.
But, it's always a better idea to listen to your wife.So, I went to school on Thursday - without having finished the book.
Or driving to the school when you have a delay, only to get there and find out it's cancelled and come home to facebook posts telling you teachers are lazy.*)*Ahem* Sorry...
At least, not the part about going into the school on a delay and having it cancelled.
3 out of 5 stars! ⭐ OUR MID-JULY BOOK CLUB READ: Overall I enjoyed reading the book and I thought it was a good solid read. The story was quite cute and some chapters really touched me. 😊📚✨ Here is what the childrens novel is about:   Counting by 7s is a children’s novel that deals with a death and grief. The 12-year-old protagonist, Willow Chance, is a genius outsider whose parents are killed in a car crash as the book begins. After Willow loses her parents in a car crash, the counselor takes a
The 12-year-old protagonist, Willow Chance, is a genius outsider whose parents are killed in a car crash as the book begins.
One issue that I had was that the chapters were variously narrated either by Willow or an omniscient narrator.
Sometimes the change of the narrator within the same chapter gave the book a very strange feel to it.
You really weren‘t able to connect with any of the protagonist for that reason, hence the entire story had a superficial feel to it!
🧐🤭Also, I did not feel that the author managed to really convey what a 12-year-old child would feel in certain situations.
I usually start reading a book while standing at the bar in my kitchen.
Most of the time, when I get a new book, being the nerd I am, I can't help but read the first few pages.
Three hours later, I was still standing by the bar when my devoted hubby asked me if I knew what time it was!
(hide spoiler)] but any book that keeps me standing for 3 hours, deserves a pass for one or two flaws.
Still a really fantastic read though!
A wonderful book about a young girl who sees the world differently and likes the number 7. Her life is dramatically altered forever and this story follows her journey and the people who she meets and touches along the way.A story of being different, life, tragedy, love, friendship and family. How one person can change the lives of those around her and how family isn't always the one we're born into. A great read and a story that pulls at the heart strings.
This book was very slow at the start and nothing was really happening, but as I continued to read more deeper into the book I loved it. Willow chance (the main character) was weird, quirky and funny. 8-15 year olds will definitely enjoy reading this book. Now a quote from counting by 7s 'if your lost you may have to swim against the tide'
M-a fermecat povestea asta. Nici n-am simțit cum am ajuns să simt așa de profund stările personajelor, emoțiile lor și îngrijorarea lor.Se întâmplă că 7 e și numărul meu, așa am ajuns în universul lui Willow. Scrisă simplu, extrem de simplu, ca și cum toată încărcătura stilistică a fost dată la o parte și a fost lăsat esențialul, adevărul, importantul. Willow m-a învățat despre plante, Univers, oameni, iubire, legături, rădăcini, familie. Willow m-a învățat că lumea nu se termină atunci când ți se pare că se termină. Lumea continuă, în alt fel, sub o altă formă, dar continuă, mereu...
Add to that a believability-stretching plotline, a sporadic writing style, and a main character I had a hard time caring for, I’m not sure who I would recommend this to.
I will say that I think the style did work for this book- it’s definitely going to throw a lot of readers off though.The main positive thing for this book was CHARACTER DEVELOPMENT GOALS.
Middle grades can be so good, because they give that focus on family so often wanting from YA, and I just love the family of colorful characters brought together here.
One of my favorite stories to see in fiction, aside from a slow burn hate to love relationship is that of a family forming out of people who aren't necessarily related.
Sure, a lot of people love their birth families, but just because you're not related to someone it doesn't preclude them being your family.
Willow just jumps right off the page and into your head.However, much as I love the narrative voice and the emotions, the writing did leave me wanting.
Her observations, which were under the guise of 'genius trying to understand the world' felt a lot like an adult writer using this platform to complain about teenagers and other people.
Reading these things didn't seem like something a genius would be concerned with if that makes sense.
There were a lot of characters and I found it to be a really odd choice that Willow's chapters were in first person and everyone else's were in third.
Definitely worth the read- I'm curious as to whether other people are annoyed by the same things in it that I was.
