https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2945955-the-maracot-deep
Readers who know of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle through his Sherlock Holmes stories, his tales of Sir Nigel in the 14th century, the Napoleonic adventures of Brigadier Gerard or the sci-fi escapades of Professor Challenger may still be unfamiliar with "The Maracot Deep." Published in 1929, only a year before the author's death, this short novel amply demonstrates that Doyle still retained all his great abilities as a spinner of riveting yarns, even in his twilight years.
Doyle solves the problem of there being no light at the ocean bottom by having Maracot & Co. discover that the ocean floor's globigerina ooze is phosphorescent, due to the decomposing marine life.
Un pie reizes nošāvu divus zaķus, jo šī grāmata ir arī “Fantastikas pasaulē” sērijā.Marakota bezdibenī ietilpst veseli trīs stāsti: Zudusī pasaule, Indīgā josla un Marakota bezdibenis.
Pavisam tajā esot izdoti veseli pieci stāsti, taču pārējie esot tādi mēsli, ka viņus neviens nav atvēzējies publicēt pat PSRS beigu gados.
Marakota bezdibenis gan ir stāsts pats par sevi, un man par brīnumu, nemaz nepiederēja pie Čelindžera cikla.Zudusī pasaule – sarakstīta laikos, kad uz pasaules bija pāris visnotaļ lieli Balti plankumi, kuros varēja slēpties jebkas.
Apokalipses patika jau bērnībā, un tādēļ lieku šim vājajam stāstam 6 no 10 ballēm.Marakota bezdibenis – šis stāsts man pusaudža gados patika ļoti, jo tajā bija runa par Atlantīdu.
Daft but very enjoyable fantasy adventure about a group who go on an expedition to the depths of the ocean and not only encounter a number of strange and deadly creatures, but also discover the remains of Atlantis. And there are still people living there. If that sounds far-fetched, it leads to a climax that can only be described as bonkers.
Loved this book in my early years.Afraid of a reread.Just let the dogs keep sleeping.But I do remember those huge, crazy-ass, Sea Slugs...pretty creepy! Most readers don't know the diversity of Doyle.
"Η Άβυσσος του Μάρακοτ", εκδόσεις Γλάρος.Βαθμολογία: 7/10Το 2010 διάβασα δυο βιβλία του Άρθουρ Κόναν Ντόιλ με ήρωα τον μοναδικό Σέρλοκ Χολμς (Το σκυλί των Μπάσκερβιλ, Το σημάδι των τεσσάρων), κατά τ'άλλα για κάποιον λόγο τον έχω αφήσει παραμελημένο σαν συγγραφέα, παρ'όλο που είμαι λάτρης της αστυνομικής λογοτεχνίας.
Και τώρα που έπιασα επιτέλους βιβλίο του Ντόιλ ξανά, έτυχε να είναι περιπέτεια φαντασίας/επιστημονικής φαντασίας, που ασχολείται με την μυθολογία της Ατλαντίδας.
Θα ξετρελαθούν από την ομορφιά και την ποικιλία των φυτών και των πλασμάτων της θάλασσας, θα ξετρελαθούν ακόμα περισσότερο όμως όταν ανακαλύψουν ένα καταφύγιο και τους κατοίκους του.
Όμως η ιστορία παρουσιάζει ενδιαφέρον χάρη στην όλη μυθολογία της Ατλαντίδας και στις ωραίες περιγραφές των τοπίων και των πλασμάτων.
Conan Doyle and a crazy professor (who looks a lot like Holmes) going on a deep sea adventure.
And they find Atlantis??
Woohoo!
What a ride!
It was a fun read, even if the stuff that happens right before the end was just a little, um, well...???
weird??
out of place??
I dunno, it didn't bother me, it was just so strange.
The science was crazy.
The scientific language/names of all the undersea flora and fauna might turn off a modern reader but one can pass that by easily.
All in all, interesting to take a dive (ha ha) into another of Doyle's interests.
Quickly read in one day and engaging. Definitely ahead of its time regarding oceanographic exploration, although the science is wrong, of course. The Atlantis aspect was novel, too. A stereotypical representation of an American was quite funny. Overall, was worth the read.
Pēc manām sajūtām - ļoti labs piedzīvojumu romāns (bet nu Konan Doils jau vispār ir klasika).
He wrote in just about every genre you can think of, including science fiction, or it might be more accurate to call these books scientific romances.
The Professor Challenger stories are the best known, especially The Lost World.
Maracot and his companions find themselves stranded on the ocean floor, and discover a very unexpected world, in fact a civilisation, deep beneath the waves.
Published in 1929, The Maracot Deep won’t appeal to everyone, but if like me you have a taste for the science fiction of the 19th and early 20th centuries you should get a good deal of enjoyment from it.
I never thought that I would say this of an Arthur Conan Doyle book, but this one had me rolling my eyes pretty much from the moment our three heroes came in contact with the Atlanteans.
I’ve read of early sci fi heroes finding humanoid life forms just about everywhere.
I’ve read of the unlikeliest of life forms, defying gravity and pressure and oxygen requirements and basic physics.
What ruined The Maracot Deep for me was Conan Doyle’s introduction of a supernatural/divine/occultic element (not restricted to reincarnations!) into the story.
But yes, if I were to read Conan Doyle’s non-Holmes work, I’d stick to his boxing stories.
Did you know Sir Arthur Conan Doyle wrote a boring book about deep-sea explorers discovering Atlantis? It's true!
Tal como fazia supor a sinopse, a única ligação entre "O Mundo Perdido no Fundo do Mar" e "O Mundo Perdido" prende-se com o título.
Tal como na obra do francês, temos um cientista, para ajudar a explicar a realidade e dar a motivação para a viagem inicial; o brigão bem-disposto para o "comic relief" e uma terceira personagem mais neutra para servir de narrador e "avatar" do leitor.
Ligação intencional ou não, a verdade é que dá para entender porque é que ambos os escritores escolherem tal trio.
Algumas obras conseguem navegar bem entre a ficção-científica e a fantasia, esta não é uma delas...
After the somewhat mediocre The Poison Belt this new Doyle-adventure was a pleasant surprise.
He leads the little group of three men on a fantastic voyage - to the deepest parts of the ocean.
The story is collected from different sources - but mainly we follow a young zoologist, Cyrus Headley, who narrates most of the story.One has to leave all credibility behind - and just jump into the ocean with them - because what happens next...well, I could tell you, but you wouldn't believe me.
It is short (150 pages at most) and very reminiscent of THE LOST WORLD (i.e. a trio of explorers going where no one's been before, in this case, Atlantis).
At one point the story weaves in reincarnation (if you've read a bio of ACD this will be no surprise) and at the end [small spoiler ahead] the three protagonists fight the Devil (as presented in the story, who else could the "Lord of the Dark Face" be?).
Not Sir ACD's worst tale but not his best either.
It has often been wondered how the creator of the superby self-contained Sherlock Holmes could be such an idiot, but when you read this book it becomes far more plain.Very much of its time, the story is told in a florid, ornate style that feels very overreaching and out of place today.
There is a dream-like quality that, if the author showed any awareness of it, could redeem the whole book, but as it is I felt it was really a bit of a waste of time.
This starts out as an enjoyable adventure in the Lost World mode, although the characters are not as interesting. The fantastic elements are skilfully done, as ever with Doyle, and the epistolary presentation adds an air of realism that helps with the suspension of disbelief. However... And it's a big however... The ending is utterly insane! I wasn't expecting it at all and my jaw did drop. All in alla worthwhile time waster and that ending... Watch out for spoilers among these comments here if you want to be surprised.
Quando leggo un libro di Conan Doyle rimango sempre colpito perchè mi rendo conto di trovarmi di fronte ad un pezzo di storia della letteratura avventurosa/fantascientifica. Certamente alcune parti del racconto sono ricche di stereotipi però bisogna immaginare quanto "L'abisso di Maracot" fosse stato innovativo ai tempi della sua prima pubblicazione, nel lontano 1929. Non all'altezza de "Il mondo perduto" ma comunque scorrevole e piacevole nel suo complesso.
Se em "O Mundo Perdido" se explora um planalto onde a natureza se manteve como era há milénios atrás, aqui exploramos os sobreviventes de um dilúvio que destruiu a Atlântida, uma raça tecnologicamente superior às que habitavam a superfície na época em que o autor viveu, levando este livro para o campo da ficção científica que a maioria dos leitores identifica com o género.Como na maior parte de livros de FC com uma certa idade, temos aqui uma excelente oportunidade de perceber como as gentes da altura viam o futuro, falando de tecnologias que se vieram a tornar reais (como as lâmpadas florescentes e a energia nuclear) e outras que acabaram por ser desacreditadas (como a existência do éter).A história em si possui várias passagens bastante interessantes e descrições inspiradoras, fáceis de visualizar e entusiasmantes, mas penso que a característica que mais salta à vista é a sua estrutura incomum.
If you're of an age like me, you might remember those serials that you would watch at the movie theater where the heroes ended each episode in a perilous situation....In The Maracot Deep, which starts off at a fast pace and just moves steadily along after that, Professor Maracot hires a ship and brings along scientific acquaintance Cyrus Headley to explore the depths of the Atlantic.
These two and the designer of their diving bell, Scanlan, are lowered into the depths of the Maracot Deep (a deep sea channel discovered by Maracot) to see what is down there.
That said, I found this slight and fairly placid Atlantean adventure story really satisfying.
There is a presentation of past lives or reincarnation that certainly seems so.What I enjoyed most about it was the tone and gracefully formal language.
And the story was allowed to move at a patient, deliberate pace, with plenty of time for observations and mild humour.
Again, the final chapter seemed so out of place in a story that was clearly about the excitement of exploration and science, but couldn't mar the adventure genre version of a cosy.
The problem of jaded post modern writing is that there is no longer any sense of adventure.
This is a story that still had such a thing.The story was one of several others in a book, but I didn't read the others.
The book smelled of cigars, so pressing on to finish this one was enough for me.
*spoiler*I absolutely loved that the heroes, once in Atlantis, bring upon themselves and their Atlantean hosts the wrath of the devil.
They smirked at the superstition of the ancient people, invaded the black temple that everyone else wisely avoided, and immediately triggered a visit from the Lord of the Dark Face.
It was a fun read.
Secondhand bookshops are great - you go in , mooch around , & end up finding a gem like this little diamond....Anyway , "The Maracot Deep" , by Arthur Conan Doyle , is basically ACD does Jules Verne - & does it pretty well .
The story is of professor Maracot & his 2 assistants , who end up being shipwrecked in Atlantis , & it's a rattling good yarn .
Simple enough - get to Atlantis , fight bad guy, go home , but it is engagingly done , & I am surprised nobody ever did a film of this .

Doyle should stick to Sherlock Holmes I reckon.
This thin book, read amongst karst mountains on my solo cycle tour through Vietnam, was a fairly poor cousin to 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea and all my criticisms of that book are exaggerated here: the main premise is that a submarine capsule lead by the brilliant Dr Maracot encounters sea monsters and then an ancient Atlantian city at the bottom of a deep ocean trench.
It is even told through the narration of a poor dupe caught up in the adventure exactly like in Verne’s book.
“P=dgh has never been proved” says Dr Maracot.
This book was said to be written in Conan Doyle's later years and there are traces of Spiritualism in it that support that. Overall it was an interesting idea of deep sea explorers coming across the lost world of Atlantis, but somehow it wasn't as strong as his usual sci fi stories. There were a great deal of disjointed stories and sometimes the story would later contradict itself in what was possible. Overall there were parts of extreme interest and creativity, but it is not one of his finest.
A cheap version of The Lost World. An enjoyable journey, although lacking in character development and true emotion. The end reflects Doyle's increasingly spiritualistic views, and while potentially making an interesting story of its own, the entire "Lord of the Dark Face" bit seemed out-of-place and distracting.
An interesting adventure narrated through a retrospection by the help of four documents. Professor Maracot along with his companions go deep into the Atlantic sea. They discover another world and living civilization below the sea. Together, they have a lot of adventures. An interesting feature of this novel is how Arthur Conan Doyle blends adventure and spirituality.
Inizio promettente, ma poi prende una deriva alquanto banale: la bella figlia del Re sottomarino che si innamora del protagonista; ingenuità scientifiche a go-go, solo per far filare liscia la storia; Deus ex machina gigante per risolvere lo scontro finale... insomma, pur tenendo conto che il romanzo ha più di ottant'anni, è invecchiato decisamente male.Molto meglio "Sherlock Holmes".
This was a fun piece of science fiction from the early 1900s. The imagination that Doyle employs to explore the depths of the ocean and the legend of Atlantis was fabulous until the very last chapter. Then it took a dive into fantasy that felt like Doyle realized he was getting long and needed an ending so poof magic!
Another little gem from a master. Not up there with The Lost World, but certainly and thoroughly entertaining. An adventure story set in Atlantis.
