https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77610.The_Mother_Hunt
Naturally the widow was curious about the baby, but she wanted to avoid the publicity of the situation, so she came to Nero Wolfe asking him to find the baby's mother - she wanted to see her for obvious reasons.
Archie Goodwin's usual witticism shines and makes the story really come to life and always keeps it from getting boring, even on the occasions where the detectives come to a dead end in their investigations - and they do it fairly often here.
One of the best in the series. A nine-month widow who has had a baby left on her doorstop wants to find out who the mother is, and she hires Wolfe to do so. Soon after, the search is transformed into a quest for the source of a unique kind of button, bodies begin to accumulate, and before long Wolfe--in order to avoid the awkward questions of Inspector Cramer--is compelled to leave his brownstone home.
A young widow comes to Wolfe to ask him to find the mother of an infant who was left in her vestibule with a note intimating that the baby's father was her late husband. The only clues are some unusual buttons on the baby's clothes.This is the third time that I'm reading through the Wolfe series. Fortunately, I have very little memory for mystery plots, so it's like reading them for the first time. I especially appreciate that they're not very long, about 150-250 pages. Fiction these days, even mysteries, can be 400-500 pages. Sometimes it's too much.
The mystery in this one is not one of Stout's best -- very solvable, even for the teenager I was when I first read this, and with a motive that is mostly a series of question marks.
But the mysteries aren't really the point with Stout, and this book, on a character level, is nothing but fun.
And there's a lot of great Archie moments and a nearly-acceptable level of Saul, including an excellent bit of Saul information.
This is not one of the very best Wolfe books, but it is one I reread pretty regularly.
A pretty good Nero Wolfe adventure, written when the author was 77 and still, as it turned out, had seven more novels in him.
This one is unique in that Wolfe is harried out of his beloved brownstone, forced to leave at a trot through the back door and down the alley as Inspector Cramer is pounding on the front door.
The mystery is a good one, Archie is very much his own man, and his love-hate relationship with Wolfe is on full display.
Wolfe admits he's grasping at straws as he accuses the murderer, and even so he has a bit of information that the reader doesn't.
Brisk and fun Wolfe, which, until the mystery is actually solved, is a great picture of Wolfe and Archie working together. The last twenty pages of solution are kind of anticlimactic. And I question the device of the person-with-the-solution suddenly being dispatched; it happens twice. But other than that, you can't go wrong.
I read my first Nero Wolfe mystery, "Murder by the Book", in translation into my native language, about 1970 or so.
Now I dislike series, but I decided to reread two or three novels in the Nero Wolfe series, just to see whether and how my reception of Mr. Stout's work has changed over time.
She hires Nero Wolfe to find out who the mother is.
The plot is captivating, but rapidly deteriorates when Mr. Stout begins to use, several times, his trademark literary device - gathering in Wolfe's office several characters connected to the investigation and discussing the facts of the case with them.
I was surprised to find that I had been given this book four years ago.
Time does fly, it seems, because I find it hard to believe that I’ve been working my way through the Wolfe books for over four years.
While I’m slightly disappointed to discover that every Wolfe novel revolves around not just a mystery, but a murder, I can also understand that this was Stout’s formula for the Wolfe stories and to wish it different would be like wishing that Wodehouse had written westerns.
Stout continues to be increasingly frank regarding sex in these books–I wonder if the books written in the 70s will go even further.
This Nero Wolfe story only gets three stars from me because I could not understand why the murderer decided why murder must take place. However, Nero, Archie and Fritz always get at least three stars even when the story is a wash. They are always star material!Then I will add another half star because Nero was forced to leave his house on this one! A very rare event indeed....
The Mother Hunt is one of the last Nero Wolfe novels.
Stout is always worth reading.
There are some special bits in this story: Wolfe willingly leaves the house, Archie gets a new love interest, and the Del Bonner Agency gets a shout-out (Bonner is the female detective created by Stout).
Archie and Wolfe attempt to find the mother of an abandoned baby.
The search takes them from the office of a button obsessive, to a baby care home upstate, and even to Long Island.
As they are stumped on the case, Wolfe spends a lot of time reading.
Really enjoyed this one. Part of the reason is that I've been reading the books with the stories inside. The full books are so much better. That Nero had to hide out in a woman's home (he has issues), without his personal chef, or his orchids, and had to walk several blocks. It was that or be arrested. Such a crisis. He solved the mystery he was hired for. But since his investigation got two people killed, he felt annoyed enough to solve the murders.
I have an old Fontana edition of this book and didn't realise until the end that 10 pages were missing. So I may never find out who the murderer was but that didn't stop me from enjoying being back in the world of Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin.
Much of the suspense in detective stories is when they are doing things that are normally considered wrong.
a real gem. some nicely placed turns. nothing felt overly contrived to fit a solution, which is why Stout is such a creator. steady in logic, delightful with the quirks and quips. bravo
I’d like to give The Mother Hunt 4.5 stars. The reason I don’t give it 5 stars is because I wasn’t convinced the murderer/culprit had a good enough reason to commit the murders.
Typical Nero Wolfe. Clever ending. As with all series which go on for a long time, it gets harder and harder to accept Cramer's endless disbelief in Wolfe.
Another good one! It seemed less realistic than some others I’ve read, but still very fun.
An excellent Nero Wolfe mystery!
Finalmente Archie ammette di essere innamorato! (un po' esile come movente e spiegazioni, ma io di NW mi leggo tutto!)
Unique writing style and the story held my interest, but subtracted one star for the misogynistic attitude of the main character Nero Wolfe. Even as a sign of those times, I found it offensive.
Another solid entry in the series.
The buttons were cool. The conclusion was a unsatisfactory
It's an ingenious and idiosyncratic setup, eventually putting Archie & Wolfe in real danger of going to jail.
They sail close to the law in many of the books, but here they step over the line, and only a solution to the murders can save them.
The reader may well wonder if Archie, Wolfe, & their client did the right thing, in the end.
And the impetus for the murders is a bit hazy and farfetched.
But hey, when the book's this much fun to read, these are minor quibbles.Also of note, this is one of the times Archie comes closest to being "caught", I think.
This is classic Archie Goodwin and Nero Wolfe at their best.
This is a thoroughly entertaining book. The improbability of the storyline is not excessive, and the pace of the book never lags. Although the whodunnit element of the story is somewhat compromised by the limited information given to the reader, I would thoroughly recommend it.
Kertojana toimii Archie Goodwin, joka asuu Nero Wolfen talossa kuten myös talouden ylläpidosta huolehtiva kokki Fritz.Nero Wolfe saa asiakkaakseen leskinaisen, jonka eteiseen on jätetty vauva ja viesti »Rouva Richard Valdon, tämä lapsi on jätetty haltuunne, koska pojan tulee mielestäni kasvaa oman isänsä talossa».
Nainen haluaa tavoittaa lapsen äidin, vaikka Nero Wolfe arvelee, että tehtävästä tulee työläs ja kallis ja että se voi silti jäädä tuloksettomaksi.Nero Wolfe muistuttaa monin tavoin Erle Stanley Gardnerin Perry Masonia, joka jättää rutiinitehtävät etsivien hoidettaviksi ja suojelee asiakastaan kaikin laillisin keinoin rikollisia ja virkavaltaa vastaan.
A baby is left at the door of a recent widow with a note saying that a boy should grow up in his father's house.
Fortunately, the widow is wealthy enough to hire Nero Wolfe to find out who left it there, who the mother is and if his father was really her late husband.
Hee!No, the baby does not end up in Wolfe's home, thank god!
Still an involved and diverting book.We are tantalized by Wolfe's statement that the only way to really do scrambled eggs properly takes 40 minutes, but we are not given the instructions!
Fortunately, this is given in "The Nero Wolfe Cookbook." So, there!
I have to put the book down and spend a bit of time with google to see for myself exactly what THAT flower looks like or what THAT dish has in it.The other beautiful things about these books, if I have not mentioned it already, is that they do not have to be read in any particular order.
I must read them in the order written.
So, this is the first and only series of character books, to my knowledge, that I have read out of order and am not disappointed or put off by it.
She hires Wolfe to find out who the mother is.The task is impossible but as usual Wolfe comes up with a plan thanks to the unusual buttons on the baby's outfit.
However, when the buttons traced to its source, a nurse who'd cared for the baby-the nurse is murdered.
Wolfe and Archie find themselves in a tight spot with the cops as they try to find the mother, but are invariably forced to find the killer as well.This was a well-done story with great characters and a twisting and turning plot that drives Wolfe from the Brownstone under the tightest spot of his career as far as the police are concerned.The relationship between Archie and the widow is played very well and honestly I could have seen it going places.
This volume balances the usual interplay between the stock characters with a solid actual mystery plot that is unraveled in a clear telling.One interesting thing about this volume is the frank and open discussion of the mid-1960s realities of unwanted children.
For me, part of the appeal of this book is that the characters act like people rather than the usual parade of barely recognizable names that pass before us.
This helps because it gives the murderer a more believable motive than is usual with Stout novels.
Granted, the motive for the murderer is still pretty had to accept.Classic Wolfe and Stout, and Archie gets a Girlfriend!!!
