https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34912895-the-great-alone
When I found out that her new book, “The Great Alone” was set in Alaska in 1974 (the year I was born); I was itching to get reading.
When he finally came home, Leni saw nothing of the laughing and handsome man she once knew.
The trip to Alaska was almost like a family vacation.
Most people are welcoming and helpful, though Leni wonders if some may not be so good for her father.
In fact, things seem to be getting worse.Could the darkness and the danger in her home be more treacherous than the worst Alaskan winter?Kristin Hannah has done it again!
From a slow and purposeful narrative, to an overly dramatic and rushed ending, it’s almost as if the author crammed two completely different books together.When the story opens, the Allbright family is on the brink of yet another move, this time to Alaska or The Great Alone.
It’s a toxic and vicious cycle they find themselves trapped in—one that feels impossible at times.Kristin Hannah really takes her time laying the foundation for the Allbright family and the tedious work the Alaskan wilderness demands and you know what, that was okay with me.
All this time, Dad had taught Leni how dangerous the outside world was. The truth was that the biggest danger of all was in her own home. This book completely stole my heart. Maybe it's just more fresh in my mind, but I'm pretty sure I enjoyed The Great Alone even more than Kristin Hannah's The Nightingale. In fact, it was verging on a five-star read for me until the final few chapters-- which I felt were too rushed and more sentimental than I personally like. But I still highly recommend it.I
Add to this mix a set of charming secondary characters, a budding romance, snowstorms, near-death experiences and animal encounters, and you have a book that is utterly enthralling.I especially liked how the author captured the feeling of these Alaskans living in a isolated bubble of their own, being afraid of the "Outside" and the possibility of change.
I loved the Alaskan setting and the multiple tales of survival against the odds.
Now Leni was old enough to know that like all fairy tales, theirs was filled with thickets and dark places and broken dreams, and runaway girls.
People who liked Hannah's earlier work, will probably love this book.
But as the days grow colder and the sun disappears from the sky, Ernt's demons come back with a vengeance.Cora reminded me a lot of Vianne from The Nightingale, only with an abusive husband this time.
I was rooting for Leni, I enjoyed her friendship with Matthew, the understanding boy next homestead over, and I was waiting for Ernt's dangerous end-of-the-world prepping to come to a head.
I feel like Hannah wanted to make her readers sad, so they would feel things, and isn't it a good book if it makes you cry?
I am trying my best to keep spoilers out of this review.Just so you know where my thoughts are coming from, I am the wife of a twenty-seven year military veteran, and I initially connected with this story and my heart ached for the family whose lives were changed forever due to the traumas of war, but then I became perplexed and then disturbed with where the storyline was heading, especially regarding the actions of the father, named Ernt.
Service) It's to the wilderness of Alaska, this "Great Alone", a most fitting description, that Leni Allbright and her parents go, seeking yet another place that her mother hoped would be the place that made her dad happy.
My favorite passage is from Leni's college application several years later: "Books are the mile markers of my life.
Large Marge was my favorite but I also loved Matthew who was the only friend Leni could remember having in her life.
Set in the 1970s, it is about Ernt Allbright, a man who returns home to Seattle after being a POW in the Vietnam War. He is now a changed man, suffering sleepless nights, flashbacks, nightmares and volatile in his behaviour.
PTSD was an undiagnosed condition at the time but it ravaged Ernt's life and that of his wife, Cora, and his 13 year old daughter, Leni.
Leni learns to read the signs and triggers that foretell when Ernt is going to lose it and you cannot help but feel for her and Cora.
Oh, man, this book.In 1974, the world was turned upside-down, what with Vietnam, the gas crisis, Watergate, and so much more to cause people to feel unsettled. Thirteen-year-old Leni Allbright knew these feelings all too well, but more because her father, Ernt, a Vietnam POW, has never quite been the same since he returned from being captured during the war. Leni watches the almost all-consuming love her parents have for each other, which is exacerbated by the times when her father "just isn't
Leni watches the almost all-consuming love her parents have for each other, which is exacerbated by the times when her father "just isn't right," suffering nightmares, mood swings, and violent rages which have caused them to pick up and move several times over the last several years."One thing every child of a POW knew was how easily people could be broken."After Ernt loses another job, he makes an impulsive decision: he is going to move his family to a small town in Alaska, and settle on some land left to him by a fellow soldier.
It’s tough for a young girl who feels they are - at times- the only ‘mature’ adult in the family.
Leni felt very attached and protective of her mom - bringing them close - questionable if their closeness was always the best thing - or if boundaries between parent and child got crossed— however they experienced a type of trauma together neither should have had to experience.
We are witness to tragedies.....while getting to know Leni - her family - the community - (neighbor Large Marge is a standout character), Matthew, and life in Alaska.
KRISTIN HANNAH grabbed my attention from the get-go with her freaky cold (Brrrrrrrr) descriptively atmospheric novel set in a remote 1970's Alaska where "you can make one mistake, but the second one will kill you"......literally.
THE FIRST HALF of the story introduces the reader to the Allbright family and the shock of their unimaginably dangerous and unpredictable new life in the wild.LIVING ROUGH (Yikes!) in their inherited little cabin, they must haul water, grow their own vegetables, and hunt for food....all while armed and on the lookout for black bears and wolf packs....AND with only three months each year to prepare for the long, dark and treacherous winter months to come.
So, I was reading History of Wolves, and because I had paper Arcs of both books and wanted to pass them on, I also started this one.
Both deal with the trauma of war, but this one was set in Alaska, and I love books set in cold climates.
Cora, who loves and will do anything for her husband and their young teenage daughter, Leni.Some fabulous characters, fantastic setting, and some extremely challenging issues.
There are many people they meet in Alaska that were loving and helpful, Leni starts a relationship and then tragedy strikes again.
I think Kristen Hannah is like a fine wine.
With each new novel, she gets better and better.
Thirteen year old Leni and her parents move to the Alaskan wilderness as a possible solution to her dad's illness.
The sacrifices both her and her mother make as a means of survival come at a high cost.
The wildness of Alaska will either break them or strengthen who they are and who they will come to be.This is Hannah's crown jewel.
Earl Harlan tells Ernt that Bo left a sizable plot of land and a cabin to him in Kaneq, Alaska.
And Leni just yearns for a place of permanence for once in her young life.With hardly a plan or adequate preparation, the Allbrights find themselves in the jaw-dropping majesty of the Alaskan wilderness.
Ernt begins to resent his new neighbors as the darkness within him takes hold once again.
And once again, Cora invents excuses for Ernt's behavior until she begins to believe it all herself.
Kristin Hannah creates a storyline that lays bare the tragedies of war, broken families, unfulfilled dreams, and the explosive side of a dormant wound.
Life has not been easy for Ernt, Cora or their daughter Leni.
“The Great Alone” is a novel so full of beautiful, vivid descriptions that I could close eyes and see the land, the mountains, the water: the immense beauty that is Alaska - even though I have never been there before.
“The Great Alone” is my first Kristin Hannah novel – it will not be my last.
I was glad to have my sisters close while I read it!Thank you to NetGalley, St. Martin’s Press and Kristin Hannah for an ARC of this novel in exchange for an honest review.
Everything changes for Leni, Cora and the residents of what seemed like the ideal, closely-knit community because of one man’s madness and vicious character.I am sorry to say that this novel left me cold and disappointed…There is no doubt that the premise of the story is interesting and realistic.
The only thing it made me feel was irritation and a deep desire to read the end and abandon the book altogether.
For the beauty of the Alaskan territory and the character of Leni and for the fact that I was not the suitable reader for this book.
Anyway, long story short, I received an advance copy of this book from the publisher, which, of course, meant I had to read it and then review it, which is how this book, despite countless others to choose from, became my first Kristin Hannah novel.
I was experiencing many of the same emotions I normally feel after reading a romance novel.
No one wanted to hint around that there is romance in this story, but....Leni was tested to the brink of her endurance, yet she prevailed and found true love and despite everything she gets her happily ever after!!
4.5 Stars ”Well she seemed all right by dawn's early lightThough she looked a little worried and weak.She tried to pretend he wasn't drinkin' againBut daddy'd left the proof on her cheek.And I was only eight years old that summerAnd I always seemed to be in the waySo I took myself down to the fair in townOn Independence Day.“Well ,word gets around in a small, small townThey said he was a dangerous manBut mama was proud and she stood her groundBut she knew she was on the losin' end.Some folks whi
Her father, Ernt Allbright, angry at the world, angry since he was sent to Vietnam, a POW sent home to solve his own problems that didn’t exist before the war, the sights he’d seen, and can’t un-see.
It still bears the aura of those gold rush days, but it’s 1974.In part, this is a coming-of-age story, Leni is just thirteen as this begins, and this town, remote as it seemed when they first arrived, is Leni’s link to people other than her parents.
Leni is but thirteen in 1974 when her father Ernt comes home with one of his bright idea smiles and tells them he has been left a parcel of land from a deceased war buddy.
Without the slightest provocation, especially when he drank, which he did, often.But Ernt is convinced that things will be better in Alaska, the last frontier, free from the daily demands of civilization, free to live off the land and enjoy nature’s bounty.I have lived in Ontario’s north country, well at least as far north as any road would take you at that time.
*4.5 stars* rounded up for The Great Alone!THE GREAT ALONE by KRISTIN HANNAH is an absolutely wonderful, spellbinding, powerful, tense, touching, and heartbreaking domestic family drama story that was an all-consuming and emotional read for me.
I couldn’t think of anything else but this story and I don’t think I have felt so many different emotions from reading a book in quite some time.
KRISTIN HANNAH delivers an impressive, well-written and beautifully descriptive story here that takes you on an emotional adventure of the Allbright family which is set in remote Alaska in the 1970’s.
All this time I was seeking for a book to just get me when it came to those first signs of infatuation; The Great Alone did it so right.“Leni couldn’t help thinking how small they were in this big dangerous world, just kids who wanted to be in love.”I went through all the stages with Leni, from seeking a friend to share her secrets and longings and bookish love with, to become so easily swept up in the intoxicating head rush that is all grown-up Matthew Walker.
5 Stars for The Great Alone...
Alaska.
It’s 1974 and a family of three, including a father mentally traumatized by his service in the Vietnam War, move to Alaska to a forty acre plot of land left to him by a fellow soldier who never made it out.Life there is so hard and very bleak.
This story is fast paced, and riveting.
The characters so beautifully brought to life.
Such an atmospheric read, I am so happy that I was able to read this at a time when we have our own Arctic Blast going through here in Michigan.Highly Recommended!!Thank you to NetGalley and St. Martin’s Press for the opportunity to read this ARC!!
This would include Ernt’s plan to take his family to Alaska in 1974.
The story is told from the perspective of his daughter, Leni.
But Leni and her mom, Cora, are desperate to believe that this move will be different and Ernt will be healed by Alaska.
I just knew whatever was coming was going to be bad even if the family didn’t see it.
I wanted to shake Cora, to make her see sense, to make her be a mother first and a wife second.
This story couldn’t have taken place anywhere but Alaska.
A gripping story you won’t want to put down.
When he learns that a war buddy of his left him a house in Alaska, Ernt is sure this time happiness will be theirs, so he packs up his daughter and wife and they head for The Great Alone.
As Leni and her mother Cora get a crash course in surviving inhospitable conditions, they find the biggest danger isn’t the weather or the wildlife, but the man they share a house with.
Hannah does an exquisite job expressing the fear Leni lives with every day.It’s also a beautiful story of star-crossed lovers.
I teared up several times during this story.
One of the gifts I received from this book was the very unique experience of living "off the grid" in Alaska.It's the early 1970s, and 13 year old Lenora (Leni) Allbright is living with the stress and uncertainty of her parents' volatile marriage.
Cora came from wealth and her parents disapproved of the marriage, but her love for Ernt was steadfast.
Then a life-changing decision is suddenly made: Ernt receives a letter from the father of a fellow POW- one who didn't make it home alive.
With hope and some trepidation, Cora agrees to leave their Seattle home along with Leni and Ernt for an unknown future in Alaska.
I’ve been a fan of her for years, but fell absolutely head over heels in love with her writing after reading The Nightingale.
Though I wouldn’t class this book as highly as my love for The Nightingale, it was still an extremely powerful and thoroughly enjoyable novel that I truly loved reading.
This story revolves around thirteen-year-old Leni who moves to Alaska with her highly unstable and unpredictable parents.
There are many unforgettable characters who become a part of their new lives in Alaska – each one bringing a new layer to this captivating story.
I highly recommend this wonderful book!
The story is about Leni Allbright, an only child and teenage girl whose parents move around frequently to support her dad’s latest and greatest ideas for new ventures.
Leni’s mom, Cora, puts up with Ernt’s abuse but shields Leni as much as she can, and tries to side with Leni in all situations as she remembers what it was like to be young and crave freedom.
“Even with all the pictures Leni had studied and all the articles and books she’d read, she hadn’t been prepared for the wild, spectacular beauty of Alaska.
I also loved her love of books, and enjoyed many of the characters of the Allbright’s Alaskan community.
I was particularly fond of Large Marge, Tom and Matthew Walker, and Cora.This book covers so many themes with a few being love, hate, loss and recovery (or not), unfulfilled dreams, strength of family, knowing how far you will go for family and for survival, redemption, and the sense of home.
I carried the book in my head the entire time I wasn’t reading it.
It put my real life in a melancholy mood, something I rarely experience when reading a book.
I have read a number of books outside of my usual genre over the last few weeks, something I would encourage everyone to do at some point.
Whatever it might be, Kristin Hannah takes the reader on quite the adventure, exploring the land as well as the psyche of the characters she peppers throughout this piece.
Recommended for those who enjoy tales that take things off the beaten path and allow characters to meander along ti find their own way.I agreed to try this book when a good friend of mine mentioned that it was set in Alaska.
The author offers a handful of other characters who push the narrative forward effectively and serve to offer depth to the various vignettes that provide glimpses into this jagged way of life, loosely woven together to call this journey a single story.
Funny how these things work.The Great Alone begins with the image of a wonderful little family: Cora, Ernt, and Leni.
All the other characters were great in their own ways, too: Ernt, who I don’t like, for good reason, but I sympathize with because of what he’d went through in 'Nam; Large Marge, who is hilarious and an ex-lawyer (that surprised me!); Mr. Walker, who I’m still upset Cora didn’t end up with because he’s a sweetheart; Matthew, who I freaking love and had me almost, almost crying when he had that accident.
What happened to you if you hoped too hard for the best and got the worst?”― Kristin Hannah, The Great AloneI am of two minds when it comes to this book.
I also liked that this book was set in the 70s and 80s, before cell phones and the internet, which served to strengthen the sense of other-worldliness, and of course the effects of Vietnam War were a critical part of this story and why it had to be set in this time.I know I sound a little critical of the book, and maybe, once time has passed and my frustration with the relentless misery foisted upon the characters has worn off, I will be inclined to change this review a bit.
