https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34287.The_Ogre_Downstairs
Pa ipak je dobra.
Najviše podseća na klasike tipa Edit Nezbit ili Edvarda Igera - u svakodnevni život troje dece ulaze najpre očuh i njegova dva sina a potom i čarobni komplet za male hemičare, i treba naučiti kako da se izađe na kraj sa svim tim.
Bonus poeni za tipično Dajanin pristup složenim i živim dečjim likovima, ali i za neočekivano realistično i solidno simpatično ocrtanog očuha (bar je odraslom čitaocu od starta jasno koliko se on trudi oko pastoraka i zašto mu to ne polazi za rukom).
The first time I read it, I thought this book was rather charming.
The growing sibling relationships are fantastic.She does an interesting thing with the POV in this book, which I didn't notice in my first reading.
All of the five are equally important to the story, and all have their own adventures, but somehow it seems completely natural that you only ever know what those three are thinking while Douglas and Malcolm remain external; as though being siblings makes Caspar, Johnny and Gwinny somehow the same person in some manner.
The story of a gaggle of youngsters who can't stand their overbearing step-father and new step-brothers.
They're given a chemistry set to bribe them into good behavior, but quickly discover that it can actually be used to make magic potions.
The potions get them into ever more convoluted schemes and increasing amounts of trouble, until their dysfunctional household finally reaches a crisis point.
I was truthfully a bit troubled by (view spoiler)[how easily the step-father's constant yelling and intermittent hitting were explained away, but I think this is a generational divide rather than a narrative misstep.
(hide spoiler)]
I am on a quest to read all of Diana Wynne Jones books.
So far I have read eight,and they have all been memorable.
There is always a touch of magic, that gives it whimsical fun.The Ogre Downstairs was no exception, the cast was varied and dynamic.
So there was a beautiful message in the book, to go along with all the craziness and chaos the children bring about with their magic chemistry sets.
Gwinny was also adorable, and the scene where she admits to the Ogre that she was trying to murder him, was my favorite.
All in all a fun and thoughtful book.
This was a decent read. It is an early Diana Wynne Jones and it shows. The ending is a bit lame. So is the way one person turned up at the end with no real explanation. However, the five kids are interesting and very individual. It isn't incredibly creative. Certainly I could see roughly how it was going to end, happily ever after. Basically another version of magic goes haywire until finished off. Still, I read it pretty much straight through. The various antics of the magic events were pretty original.
A wildly fun, romp of a book with dark undertones.
When the children in a blended family are given two magical chemistry sets, amazing things happen.
However, this book does visit some dark places first, with two of the children seriously and separately attempting to kill their stepfather - although this is handled in a way that makes it seem more humorous than serious.
It is touching to see both the stepfather and the children change in their interactions with each other.
However, because of the dark themes this book touches on, it is more suitable for upper primary.
I read this book so many times as a child that the library probably thought I purchased it from them.
I have since gotten that same library book at a sale they had.
I've shared this book with my children.
From things being brought to life to flying to the disco, this book looks at just what mischief children can get into while studying chemistry on their own.My oldest son can't seem to mimic the outcomes with his own chemistry set, but he is determined.
The Ogre Downstairs is probably not one of Diana Wynne Jones's best-known books, but it's always been one of my favorites.
Caspar, Johnny, and Gwinny resent their new stepfather (known to them as "the Ogre") and his sons, Douglas and Malcolm, but when the Ogre gives Johnny and Malcolm new chemistry sets, all of the children get mixed up in the magical results.
I've read this book multiple times, and it's always laugh-out-loud funny; Jones is really at the top of her comic form here.
At the same time, she has some serious things to say about families and their relationships.
I found this book and thought it sounded like a nice fun read so I picked it up. Needless to say that it was a nice fun read. I read through it in two days and had fun. I think it would have been even more awesome or interesting if there was more about the magic powders and figuring out their magic etc but it was still enjoyable.
I can't wait to read this with my kids when they are old enough. It was imaginative and fresh. I enjoyed the story and felt the characters stayed true to themselves throughout. The story centers around a family that is adjusting to being family and their exploits with a chemistry set. I wish I had thought of it.
Another precious story. I'm probably the only person who feels this way, but I just adore everything this woman writes. Wrote, rather... :(
This is one of the BEST books I've read of all time. I love her writing way better than the money-maker Harry Potter series. Very, very good!!
The events in this book is well-described. It also gives a moral lesson which is good for the children today.
What a lovely book! Very imaginative and creative, very sweet. And with a nice message - don't take people by face value, literally.
Although this is an older story (copyright 1974), it’s full of the excellent characterizations, beautifully accessible writing, incredible observation of people, and neverending sense of wonder and adventure that mark, well, all of her works that I’ve ever read.
Part of that is the children’s perspective, part is that this is a 70’s story and things were seen differently then, and part is that I work with kids and am trained to be unnaturally sensitive to that sort of thing; however, even with those explanations, the situation was enough to bother me, especially with the ending being what it was.
Casper, Johnny, and Gwinny are quite unhappy when their mother marries Jack, whose dour nature and heavy handed approach to discipline lead them to dub him The Ogre.
When Jack gives each group of children a chemistry set, everyone is surprised, but no one expects magical results.
This leads not only to great fun but opens the door to greater understanding between the children as their magical misadventures force them out of their comfortable roles of resenting others who they have not made any attempt to understand.As with many of the books written for younger readers, this one was less interesting to me than other Wynne Jones wrote.
A living pipe that enjoys being smoked; literal dustbunnies; giant animated feral toffee bars--no twee nonsense about how great it would be if your dollhouse people came to life, because they don't speak English and attack on sight.It gets four stars because of a couple of things that disturbed or disappointed me.
The disappointment was the too-pat ending, in which the family gains a lot of money and it solves all their problems.
My problem is that striking one's children in the kind of rage the Ogre displays is a lot closer to abuse than I'm comfortable with, and doesn't fit with the personality he reveals toward the end of the book.
It's quite a sweet story about a group of children and a magical chemistry set.
The Ogre, in an attempt to be nice, buys two fo the kids a chemistry set which has some various strange items in it.
It's quite nice to watch the friendship develop between the children as they're forced to rely on each other to get out of trouble.
Also, as the story develops, I started to feel more and more for the Ogre who had to put up with it all.
It also feels a bit dated - with the children using record players as such.

أفضل رواية قرأتها لديانا واين جونز لحد الآن ، ضحكت عدد لا محدود من المرات وكل ما قرأت جزئية أحكيها ل
A very nice story about the coming together of a mixed family.
Also an ogre.It actually seems about like how a child whose mom (or dad) gets married may view their family.
Except, of course, Diana likes to add some magic in, in this case in the form of a chemistry set.
It's one of those smooth stories that reads quite nicely and you always cringe a little when they get mad at each other but you're also like, I probably would have done that too (except for trying to kill the ogre - I don't think I would have gone that far).
Fun read, as usual, but not as good as many of her later books. Also, I was rather disconcerted by the kids and the stepfather all realizing that they weren't trying to understand each other, really, and yay we'll all be a happy family now, when to my mind the stepfather's behavior often rose to abusive levels. Mild abuse, I suppose, but abuse is abuse.
I liked it the first time I read it when I was a teenager. Rereading it in my 20s left me wondering why I liked it. But it's fun and easy to read, really light fiction, unlike most magic-fantasy books.
This was the first DWJ I ever read - I brought it home from the library and the whole family was hooked. It's about two boys who receive a chemistry set from their despised stepfather, the Ogre, and the unexpected results of their experiments to their sister and themselves.
A good story which I don't remember reading as a child. I think maybe my parents wisely kept it from me because they knew that if I read it I would probably end up tasting all the substances in my chemistry set. Or hitting people -- the characters in this story seem to hit each other a lot.
Not my favorite Diana Wynne Jones book, but it was still a solid tale about families and magic. I guess it was just...sort of small? And everything was a little random?
Rereading some excellent YA books. I stand by my original rating. DWJ is very excellent at writing from the kids' point of view.
As DWJ's kids' books go, this is one of those most like, well, a kids' book. Nothing wrong with that: it's charming, wacky, and non-stop with the action, an absolute delight. The development of family relationships is low-key touching - and the pitched battle at the end is a (literal) riot!
But there's an extra layer of ingredients, which have some magical effects, as they find out when spilling one mixture on Gwinny results in her floating to the ceiling.From there, I expected them to find the ingredient that would rid them of the Ogre for good, but the book took an unexpected turn in using the chemistry sets for the kids to start finding common ground.
Then even the Ogre turns out to have some sympathy, and learns to soften his approach to keep the peace.It was a fuzzier grey area than I was expecting from a book about a magical chemistry set, and the lessons about giving people a chance and seeing through their eyes are ones I wish more children would be exposed to early on.
Okay, so I'm a sucker to stories about sibling squabbles and blended family difficulties heightened by the ill-advised use of magic chemistry sets. This was fun (although beware that there is a scene featuring corporal punishment) and well-observed (I liked the subtle ways that the differences in class and family culture influenced the characters' interactions). It reminds me of a less complicated and more low-stakes Archer's Goon, where the heart of the story beneath the magical hijinks is imperfect families trying to get along with each other.
