https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/394182.The_New_Book_of_Middle_Eastern_Food
For instance, a reviewer noted that The Cooking of the Eastern Mediterranean did not have pictures (it indeed has none, except for the cover, as well as a few black and white drawings and small photos), however, the recipes and knowledge the author imparts are invaluable.
The author includes classic cooking tales and tidbits throughout the book.
It has luscious food porn pics in only one section of the book, however, the selection of recipes and the presentation, author's writing style and descriptions just sell this book for me.
The salads, mezze, chicken and cheeses are within my limited abilities, but I'll need my sisters for the lamb.
Later, she hosted a BBC TV series, Claudia Roden's Mediterranean Cookery, and has won many awards and trophies.With cameos from Yotam Ottolenghi and Claudia's granddaughter, Nelly Wolman, this entertaining dramatisation shines a light on an extraordinary global cook, still traveling the world sharing recipes and cultures.Episode 1: Claudia remembers her early life in Cairo and the nostalgic dishes of her childhood.
At last, she finds a publisher.Episode 5:As Claudia continues to research and share recipes from all over the world, she is celebrated by fellow cooks and still cooks with her family - this time her granddaugher, Nelly, rather than her mother.
I got the original edition as a gift when I was a teenager and had already been cooking seriously for several years.
Before this, I mostly followed the classical French style; this was my introduction (and my family's) to 'ethnic' cooking and I could not have had a better teacher than Claudia Roden.
Roden grew up in Eqypt so she knows her Middle Eastern cookery.
The recipes are clear, easy to follow and easy to adapt if you don't live near a good Middle Eastern grocer.
These days, for health and kosher kitchen reasons, this is my predominant cooking style: there are lots of recipes that are low fat, vegetarian, and non-dairy.
Before I go on to more critical remarks, I'd like to note that people should own this book, mostly because there are few substitutes with anything resembling the same range and scale.The book has far too many Greek and Moroccan and Tunisian etc.
make really fucking good food.The second is that the recipes given are often for boring, mundane versions of the dishes.
The spices given are frequently a bit off, or lacking, for the relevant dish.
The cross-cultural nature of the thing is also appealing.You'll find recipes for tremendous vegetarian salads and main courses, lovely seafood, sumptuous meat dishes, simple stews, and beautiful desserts.
This is a combination of recipes, folk tales, and cultural history. Really neat!
After college, I discovered a couple middle eastern recipes on allrecipes quite by chance- I was searching for ways to use some of the many tomatoes and cucumbers friends had given me from their gardens.
This led to an increased interest in the food, culture, and languages of the middle east, I found a few more recipes for mainstream standbys like Kofta, Dolma, and Falafel.
This book is like an encyclopaedia of middle eastern foods.
Language, food, and fable are three things that closely tie cultures together, and I love the extra insight these additions bring to the book.
My favorite ethnic cookbook, hands down.
Apparently, in the new edition the author has lowered the fat content in the recipes.
This seems unnecessary to me since the cuisine places a strong emphasis on vegetables and grains, and most of the fat in recipes comes from olive oil.
I really like Roden's style.
She lived throughout the Middle East and isn't beholden to a particular style of cooking.
If you appreciate a literate, knowledgeable and thorough style in a cookbook, you'll likely be pleased with this dense guide to Middle Eastern cuisine.
This is an amazing book, a wide ranging cookbook, with lots of social-historical context, snippets from literature and charming personal anedoctes.
I am sure I will pick this up many times.The recipe writing style is also precisely to my taste.
The range is amazing and inspiring.I have only two small personal quibbles with this : first, my edition (this precise cover) has american units.
I hate american units and always prefer to avoid them.
It is more inspiring to have the recipe close to the photo!
I love Middle Eastern food, and I love this book! While this book is not for beginners, those more experienced in the kitchen will love trying new and exotic flavors and cooking techniques. I made a fantastic feast of kebabs, baba ghanouj (roasted the egglpants under the brioler myself), hummus, tabouli, and HOMEMADE PITA BREAD (took a few days, no joke). But that's just the beginning...the book is full of so many delicious recipes that most AMericans have never heard or conceived of, regardless of how many gyro restaurants you've been to! Every recipe is so authentic, rich, delicious!
Delicious recipes! Roden does a great job of noting regional variations as well, which is fantastic (ie. use fava beans for falafels from Lebanon but chickpeas for those from Israel). Instead of making a completely different recipe she just notes the possible ingredient swaps or additions at the end of each recipe making it really easy to navigate! My only complaint were that there were so few pictures- I'm very visual when flipping through my cookbooks :)
bois de Panamasahlabritual bathshamine eggs Song to a GirlGoodnight, oh watermelon, oh red wheat waiting in a sack,I have waited beneath your window for the past four nightsWithout food or drink, listening for the sound of your voice.Goodnight, oh fresh ripening apricot,I want you for my wife, yet I am too shy to say it.amardine cream
excellent - I've tried many of these recipes
I was recently at a Mediterranean/Arabic restaurant that was bursting with flavourful foods. We’re not talking your usual fast food Mediterranean food. We talking herbs, spices, fresh and hot flat breads (pouffed from cooking). I realized that even though I have been using herbs and spices in my cooking, raising a lot of my own fresh herbs, I could be doing a whole lot more.
This book has been an invaluable resource in the midst of the current Middle Eastern food kick in which I find myself.
So far I have been pleased with the results of everything I've tried, though I've really just started to scratch the surface.
Kefir is Turkish and I made it to take with me to a Turkish barbeque hosted by two of my students who made kofta kebab.
My eyes have been opened to home-made hummus using dried rather than canned chick-peas.
If you make some of the more expensive condiments at home, like hummus and pickles, you can really be thrifty and frugal.
I haven't had time to cook much out of this yet (the green beans with tomato sauce are great, although I reduced the oil), but reading it sure makes me hungry.There is a lot of text apart from the recipes, which some people might find intimidating, but since I'm also a history buff I appreciate having it there to put things in context.
This book has the same problems as many 'comprehensive' cookbooks--there is simply too much.
I don't need eighteen different dips in the first chapter.
I need more photos and less dense text.
I need more specific directions--what does a slice of feta cheese look like?
Overall, while I appreciate that Claudia Roden is a significant figure in her culinary niche, this book was not the medium that delivered her know-how in a useful/attractive/clear way.
The only reason I do not rate it one star is because I do believe that there IS a place for encyclopedia-style cookbooks in the world, this particular one was just not very well done nor do I generally like that style of cookbook.
I own one of the older editions of this cookbook (I think it was published in 1997?) which doesn't have pictures.
The wara einab/stuffed vine leaves recipe is the first that actually worked for me, and I've cooked a few other dishes from the book too.
As funny as it might seem this is a cook book you can read, rather than just lists of recipes.
I'm tempted to buy both the updated edition and Ms Roden's books on Spanish and Jewish cooking.
And I'm definitely buying her 'Arabesque' cookbook, I have a recipe I copied out of a library copy and it's one of my favorite dishes.
So far so good!
I started reading this with sticky notes next to me to mark recipes I wanted to try.
It soon became apparent that sticky notes were not needed - everything sounded fantastic (but the brains - not for me).
Tonight, I made the Ferakh bel Tamatem (Sauteed Chicken Breasts with Tomatoes) and Ful Ahdar bel Roz wal Laban Zabadi (Fresh green fava beans with rice and yogurt), though I used green peas instead of fava beans.
Wow. Awesome dinner that even my 3-year-old liked.
And my picky 5-year-old wants leftovers tomorrow for lunch.
An excellent manual for Middle Eastern cookingThis vast collection of exhaustively researched recipes, accompanied with informative and often charming historical anecdotes and stories of the author's childhood in Egypt and travels in the region, is a must for anyone with an interest in Middle Eastern or North African food. Recipes are easy to follow, and make an effort to provide ingredients and methods that are feasible for the modern Western cook. I would have appreciated more illustrations, particularly pictures of at least some of the dishes. However, that will certainly not stop me from cooking many of these great recipes!
Calling this book by Claudia Roden a cookbook just doesn't do it justice.
It's a story book and includes ancient dishes from across time.
I've made several dishes from this book of wonders, and they have all been a great hit and many have become a main staple in everyday life.
Who knew adding a little lemon juice or adding a small dollop of fried green onions to a bowl of soup could make such an overall difference in taste?
This cookbook isn't all recipes..
it lends history and stories of the origins of rice, spices, herbs, tradition and more.
(said at least 12 wise men and women at the same time)
I want to like this book more than I do, and I'll keep giving it more chances, but I've found a lot of the recipes, while not exactly dull, to be unremarkable. To be fair, I haven't cooked through even a fifth of the book yet. It does serve as a solid way to get a broad regional handle on ME food from one source, and Claudia Roden writes beautifully. If I were to re-try those recipes I have cooked, I'd probably triple her herb / spice quantities to achieve a more authentic replication of taste.
One of my favorites for Middle Eastern food. Two other favorites are A Taste of Persia by Najmieh K. Batmanglij and The Arab Table by May S. Bsiu.I am not good cook, but I love to read cookbooks. These three books are very accessible. I can enjoy reading them, and I can actually make a dish from one of their recipies from time to time withiut having to learn a complicated new skill, purchase some new expensive cooking gadget, or spending days on the internet or a phone trying to find ingredients I will probably use only once.
i liked the book because it has some recipes from different middle eastern countries. however i found some of the recipes not exactly the way they suppose to be according to what i know and the igredients i am used to. i know there are the same name for a recipe but with different methods and ingredients for this reason the name of the book should mention something that gives the reader the impretion that the recipes are with a twist. overall it is informative because i got to know some other recipes and food i am not familiar with.
This is very comprehensive, and in my experience, the recipes are fairly traditional. (My husband's family is Persian, and they haven't reacted to anything by asking "they said to put WHAT in that dish?" as they have with other cookbooks. I wish it had more photos so that I knew what the end result is supposed to look like, but it does a good job explaining Middle Eastern cooking and adapting it for American kitchens.
Packed with recipes. Hidden gems of photographs. I prefer Arabesque: A Taste of Morocco, Turkey, and Lebanon to this book mostly because of the photography and history. However, I would come back to this book in a second if I needed/wanted excellent Middle Eastern recipes.
Well Claudia, I have loved spending this time together. We haven't actually cooked anything yet and actually I'm a little worried that we will simply be distracted by searching for the perfect middle eastern market in Chicago where we can find uncommon ingredients and then me soaking in all the interesting stories in the book for a second time and sipping tea....and nothing will ever actually be cooked. I hope I'm wrong because it all sounds like seriously delicious fun.Jessica
I was expecting to find more vegetarian recipes. Instead, I found many meat-centered recipes. Roasting an entire chicken for myself and maybe my boyfriend? That's not happening any time soon. This is a cookbook that I'll probably want when I have more mouths to feed, but for right now in my young life, this is not for me.I like it for connecting the recipes to Middle Eastern culture, and for an ethnic cookbook, it is very good. I loved my lentils in tomato sauce!
Rich with recipes and stories, fun to read. Am just learning about Persian and related Middle Eastern cooking, expanding on experiments with Moroccan and North African flavors. Some of the recipes are very basic variations on what could pass for European dishes. Others are so heavy with cumin and cardamom that they can overwhelm an unfamiliar palate. But in between are lots of gems, and some great stories and jokes. I got a copy from the library but will be buying one for my shelf.
This has been haunting my To-Read shelf for ages; I didn't think I'd ever get my hands on it, but lo and behold my school library had a copy. I just spent most of Spring Break perusing it. It was as fantastic as I'd hoped, and I will definitely be buying a copy when my budget allows. I don't care about pictures - if I want to look at food, I'll go to a blog. I read this book to learn about Middle Eastern & North African cooking, history, and culture, and I got all three in spades. Boom. Sold.
