https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/305909.Strategy
Liddell Hart’s analysis and applications suffer from his inability to define his terms, culminating in a simplistic analysis which, while raising some interesting philosophical questions, provides little for the modern military historian.The bulk of Strategy is devoted to a chronological survey of major military campaigns of history, attempting to show how in all cases, “effective results in war have rarely been attained unless the approach has had such indirectness as to ensure the opponent’s unreadiness to meet it.
The book in one sentence: no one wins through a direct approach. In the course of history, the most significant battles are the ones that was won using the theory of indirect approach. The aspects discussed there are very much applicable in our daily lives and relevant that we can easily understand and form analogies based on our experiences. The indirect approach can be applied in busniesses, in our work place, in our relationships, in selling our ideas, and more. I highly suggest that you should read this book along with "The Prince" by Machiavelli.
Главная мысль всей книги, можно сказать, звучит так: - "Глубочайшая правда войны состоит в том, что исход битвы решается в умах военачальников, а не в телах их воинов".А главный метод, которым должен обладать великий полководец и стратег состоит в том как применять метод "непрямых действий" для достижения побед в военных сражениях при этом нести минимальные потери или вообще обходиться без последних.
Для военных людей она в самый раз!
Также будет весьма интересной и для тех, кто интересуется историей и особенно историей военного искусства.
The author's views of the genius of General Sherman were particularly spot on.The bad news is that for a guy who quotes Sun Tzu alot he really doesnt seem to have understood anything the man was trying to say.
In fact, in his well intentioned (and quite possibly psychologically inspired from the author's service in the WWI) obsession with the indirect approach makes him predictable as a strategist...and Sun Tzu was above all things about surprise and winning before the fight has even started.
The 4-star rating is mainly due to the fact that this is an old book (Liddell Hart of course wrote doctrine that was ignored by the allies, but the Germans loved it!).
No big deal.I guess that is another reason to read this book.
Liddell Hart's work is early.
He saw his ideas used then wrote about those who used his ideas.
That is the interesting aspect if you read this book.
Here is a perfect example of a person with ideas and those ideas become reality.I enjoyed it and recommend this for its historical and strategic discussions.
It's amazing to think that Hart was one of the first military thinkers of the modern era to discuss tangential strategy.
That is, if you're pursuing a goal you should always be finding and employing the least costly method to reach that goal, even if it doesn't appear to be directly related to the goal.For Hart it was interrupting supply lines and being smart about the direct engagements you choose for your army.
If you take a few steps back his ideas have infinite application (though very well tread-upon since the 20s when this was written).This is a terrible paraphrase of a terrific book I read several years ago, but the bottom line is you should get it.
Even though my brother (an ex-Marine) told me I wouldn't need to know anything the book had to offer, I thought I might as well learn all I could about military thinking before I went in.
I was surprised to learn that one of the most effective military strategies is economic sanctions.
The author posed the theory that WWII wouldn't have lasted nearly as long if England and France had taken sanctions against Germany instead of plunging headlong into war like they did, allowing Germany to maintain its economy and gear up for war.
Read with great caution. BHLH tries to shoehorn every war in the book into "the indirect approach." The last few chapters lay out his theory of strategy and are worth a read.
Among other things this is the prime fault the book falls into.There is something to be said about this treatment of the history of strategy.
A better treatment on the other hand, I think, is to study strategy as a product of its local conditions.
Which brings us back to the Hart's Strategy.Giving a wide enough leeway that the theory was a response to the First World War and the book a product of the Second, there is much to be said about the value of Hart's theory.
One of the classic books on warfare - up with On War and Art of War.
It would be an understatement to say that Liddel Hart is a believer in the indirect approach.
Nonetheless, it is a valuable principle and probably more-so in the context of Liddel Hart's experiences during WWI.
Anyhow, if one can get past the EXTRAORDINARILY selective interpretation of history (take it as illustrative rather than proof) and make peace with the wishy-washy nature of "indirect", there are some valuable insights to be gained from Liddel Hart.
There are a few universally recognized and seminal works on the nature of warfare – notably Sun Tzu’s ART OF WAR and Clausewitz’s ON WAR (and maybe Miyamoto Musashi’s BOOK OF FIVE RINGS, if one is able to extrapolate hand-to-hand combat to warfare/conflict in general).I would also count B.H. Liddell Hart’s STRATEGY among these seminal works.
Liddell Hart accomplishes the monumental task of analyzing pretty much the entire history of warfare, from ancient Greece to the Arab-Israeli conflict, in a single coherent book.
history of strategy from the ancient greeks to ww2.
national policy should direct military aims which in turn should be achieved by effective strategy.
the goal of the strategy should be to achieve military aims by the most economical (in resources and manpower).
much emphasis on 'indirect approach,' which is basically every single strategy other than a straightforward attack on the enemy's center.
amazingly, generals have throughout history ignored the benefits of indirect approach, preferring the grand battle.
liddel hart accurately predicts the future of guerrilla warfare as a response to the nuclear age.
good thing that's the title of liddel hart's next book.
Military strategy deals with finding the best way to marshal one’s limited resources to best an opponent in a zero-sum game.
The great strategic thinkers propose themes, theories, tenets and axioms that, while intended for the military theater, can be applied to many realms of life.Liddell Hart is of these great thinkers; some say the best of the 20th century.
This text is one from which many people can gain insight into the method of strategic analysis.
The lessons of this text can be applied to myriad scenarios, many of which will benefit people from diverse backgrounds.
What a pity for the dreadful lay-out!
The author has a clear preference for the indirect method, which he clearly illustrates along history.On the other hand, I liked the parts on WW I and WW II very much.
Both from a military and psychological point of view, it provides new insights.
Fascinating to read the difference in opinion about the link politics and the military between Hitler and Ludendorff.
As the book abruptly ends around 1941, I wonder what the writer would have added along the WW II-road to further illustrate his indirect method philosophy.
Wonderfully reasoned and argued thesis.
Hart provides evidence to support his thesis from almost every war/battle since the beginning of recorded history.
My only issue with the book lies in his consistency in giving little background or setting for many of the battles.
If you are not already well versed on a particular conflict you will be completely lost.
The little bit of ancient history I have read left me prepped for the 1st quarter of the book, but know very little about medieval military campaigns and was completely lost during that portion.
I liked this book. B.H. Liddell talks about the physical and the psychological aspects of indirect warfare. He uses examples of past wars to illustrate his point with more emphasis on WWI and WWII.
Liddell Hart's "Strategy" comes from the influence of his study of the great strategists of history (especially Sun Tzu, Napoleon, and Belisarius) and their victories, and his understanding of Ju-Jitsu. His strategy of the "Indirect Approach" offers examples from 2500 years of military history to substantiate his thesis.This book has influenced many military strategists including Israel's since 1948 to present day.Liddell Hart is a brilliant strategist and I highly recommend this book for anyone who has an interest in grasping the true art of military history or military thinking.
The phrase that comes to mind is "belaboring the point." Still, I thought it was an interesting look through military history and strategic thinking. The book is written as a piece of military scholarship, and targets readers who are familiar with the field - which I am not. As a result, I had to do a decent amount of outside reading (on the conflicts, and people involved in them) to get context for this book, which may be why it took me so long to finish. Overall though, I feel it was well worth my time.
A very interesting book, but I think he may be stretching in the conclusions he draws from his case studies. Essentially, his argument regarding the superiority of the "indirect approach" to the "direct approach" could more accurately be called maneuver. While maneuver is important (and indeed, a Principle of War), offensive and mass are also critical. The strength of this book lies in his analysis of WWII. He also offers a strong rebuttal to Clausewitz' perceived fixation upon the offensive. Not world changing, but a required read for any strategic thinker.
Гарт учит анализировать войну с точки зрения стратегии, где он находит одну закономерность: непрямые действия более эффективны, чем прямые. Он иллюстрирует этот факт примерами всех важнейших войн за последние 2.5 тысячи лет человеческой истории. Это история развития войны, которая подводит к тому, как и какие войны ведутся сейчас и будут вестись в будущем.Непрямые действия повсюду - в войне, делах, отношениях. Эта книга изменила мой взгляд на логику событий в жизни.Эту книгу интересно перечитывать.Русский перевод не очень. Перечитываю книгу на английском, у автора прекрасный язык.
Tasked with reading 25 pages for school, I ended up reading the whole thing. Authors of books on strategy remind me of astrologers; war has such a broad scope and history that one can find examples to support nearly any assertion. While I enjoyed Hart's walk through time (I will delve deeper into Epaminondas, Subatai, Wolfe, and Cromwell), he lost me when he blamed Clausewitz for WWI AND WWII (p 344). A must-read for the military professional, if only to dicuss theory with peers over coffee.
The book is more fun to read if you use a British accent while reading... At times the book drags but culminates in Part IV with an insightful and fair minded critic of Clausewitz. Depending on ones interests they could probably read this section and forgo the prior 300+ pages and still get a great deal from the book.
If only some famous (and infamous) generals and politicians had read this and taken it to heart, millions of people who have died in the 20th century would be alive today. With many specific examples of general principles, Liddell Hart presented lessons he had learned in the trenches in World War I. The underlying idea is at of the indirect approach.
Enthralling. Outstanding. Fantastic. Hart is the stodgy-looking professor who you're ready to like but then you find yourself completely in love and it's AWESOME. I don't agree with all of his conclusions, or even all of his reasoning, but the man is a genius. It is impossible to understate how important he's been to our understandings of modern warfare.
My middle school humanities teacher, Mr. Wandell (who is, by the way, the best teacher I've ever had), recommended this to us on a regular basis. I finally picked it up and read it this summer. I'd like to take a moment to thank Mr. Wandell for recommending this book to us.
This is a great book to understand military doctrine and strategy up to the "war on terror". Explains the concept of limited war, the prevalence and origins of guerrilla war, and the matching of startegy to grand strategy (policy aims).
Excelente manifiesto aún en nuestros tiempos. La Guerra de la Aproximación Indirecta de Hart lo resume en estas palabras: "comencé a comprender que la aproximación indirecta tenÌa una aplicación mucho más amplia, y que era una ley de la vida en todas sus esferas: una verdad filosófica".
I read this for its historic influence. It’s fairly interesting if you really want to understand strategy with some historical perspective, but I think you need to be pretty into this sort of thing to appreciate it (and not be an officer in the military).
Not an easy read for me. You have to know the wars well to appreciate the commentary. It helped a bit going through the world war 1 section with Dan Carlin's podcast in world war 1. We don't go to war often. If you do, go indirect.
