https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/310070.The_Berenstain_Bears_in_the_Dark
Another good Berenstain Bears outing. In our house the dark can be a little scary, so this little story has a good message. I do like the little book brother bear is reading. I like that the cave makes a little noise and they figure out what makes the noise. It is a nice little touch.I love the art and the bears are simply fun to be with.The kids in my house enjoy these books.
Another great book in the Berenstain Bear series.
Brother and Sister go to the library and pick out some books.
Brothers happens to be a scary mystery book and Sister ends up seeing all sorts of scary things that night in the dark.
If you have kiddos who might be a little scared of the dark, or if you happen to have a young one who saw or read something a little bit scarier than they can handle, this might be a great book to read through.
I highly recommend In the Dark and the Berenstain series as a whole.

Such a cute story about facing your fears.
its a trippy book.but its kinda cool.read it.
This book helped my 4 year-old get over her fear of the dark. A classic great book!
I read all these books to the kids when they were very small.
Maybe because when I was a kid I would scare myself with mysteries from the library, and then not be able to fall asleep at night.I love how Brother and Sister explore books on their own.
And I love the night light.
That's a very cool night light.The ending was perfect - usually what scares us in books is the unknown - and here when the solution is revealed, we find it's nothing near as scary as what they had been imagining.
I love the berenstain bears books in general so reading this one was no different.
These books always have a moral or a problem and solution as well so it makes it a great read for the younger ages because it causes them to think critically about what’s going on.
I think the topic of the book is very relatable to children.
I love the artwork in this book a lot because there’s always so much to look at yet the pages always cause you to focus on what’s most important on that page.
It's a scary book.
Brother makes a scary noise and nobody sleeps well.
The next day, Papa finds an old night light he had as a kid.
Even Papa was afraid of the dark when he was a baby.
The end.It's a good message, just not a very interesting story.The best part: "Sister was looking at a storybook about three kittens who were arguing over which was the prettiest-- and it was a little boring." Just like this book.Message: The dark isn't scary, but it's okay to be afraid of it anyway.For more children's book reviews, see my website at http://www.drttmk.com.
This book is about Sister Bear being afraid of the dark after picking out a scary story to read at the library.
Papa bear talks to scared sister bear and lets her know that the scary things she sees is all in her imagination.
We would use this book in our classroom to teach students that our imaginations can sometimes make us think things that may not actually be true.
Our imaginations are powerful tools and students must have theirs guided when they let their imaginations take them to places that allow them to be scared.
All of the Berenstain Bears books help children learn something new or how to handle a problem.
The book series follows the family of 5 bears living in Bear Country.
In 'The Berenstain Bears in the Dark',Brother Bear reads a scary book to Sister Bear.
She gets scared in the dark, but the book shows how to handle the situation.
This book is good for little kids to read because this is such a common problem for them.
It's helpful for them to know they aren't alone and that there is a solution to help them - read the book to find out what the solution is!
I think there's a very good reason that this book series has spanned decades and maintained popularity.
It gives children the chance to think on their own and make their own choices for behaviors that carry over into their adult lives.
Many of these issues will be ones that will persist through their lives, just on different levels of course.I love the nostalgia reading this as an adult.
I used to be afraid of the dark and finally grew out of it.
But it was great to have a book that touched upon a major issue I had when growing up.
Now I love the dark!
Being afraidof the darkDoesn't just happento you.It happens,sometimes,to little bears, too.After Brother reads her a scary book, Sister has a lot of problems falling asleep and is afraid of the dark.This is actually a good example of Papa Bear being a good father. He is the one that solves Sister's problem by talking with her and giving her a nightlight. This book could be paired with Bad Dream.
This book in particular is a really great book dealing with sleeping in the dark. Each Berenstain Bears series deals with a family of bears and their everyday life issues. targeted toward young children they teach kids how to act/ understand certain situations. this one is about sleeping in the dark, but there are others like being babysat, or eating alot of junk food. i think they are good reads for little kids because they are interesting as well as teaching.
★★★The Berenstain Bears in the Dark by Stan and Jan Berenstain Brother and Sister Bear hear their bedtime story, and then its lights out. The story was spooky, and now Sister is afraid. This teaches kids, that sometimes their imagination can get the better of them, and to not read scary books before bed.
Man, Brother Bear sure is a jerk. The thing about these books is they portray so much bad behavior without immediate repercussions. I know the overall lesson is good, but they're really just showing kids how to be little jerks. Especially since Sister Bear ends up being a little bit of a jerk in the end. That nightlight is really cute, though. I wish I had one.
This book is about Sister Bear being afraid of the dark after picking out a scary story to read at the library. Papa bear talks to scared sister bear and lets her know that the scary things she sees is all in her imagination. I love how all Bernstein bear books have a moral of the story or something new to teach us. The illustrations beautifully tell the story and they don’t over power the text.
I remember reading this book during my speech therapy class as kid. I used to bring different books in the series home with me in plastic ziplock bag everyday and read them or have my mom read them to me. These books taught me that you can always solve your problems. Great books for small children.
I enjoyed reading The Berenstain Bears books as a child. The family dynamic of the family intrigued me, and the books were good for independent reading. I always imagined myself in the books and wished that I could jump into the pages. When reading The Berenstain Bears books, I definitely felt as if I was in their world.
Sister Bear reads a scary story and then it afraid of the dark and wakes her parents up in the middle of the night. After her father tells her there is nothing to be afraid of and takes her up to the attic she is a lot better. I thought this story was enjoyable and children always go through times when they are afraid of the dark.
No judgement! I'm going through a nostalgic phase. This was one of the ones in my collection when I was a kid. How cute is the Bears' little house? This version came with stickers, and even though this was borrowed from the library, not all were used, which is amazing. I didn't take one. I mean, not yet, I still might. Okay, I just did; I'm that kind of rude adult.
I read so many Berenstain Bears books during elementary school it's ridiculous!I rated every book that I read during childhood 5 stars.Why? Well because that was a time in my life when I loved every single thing I read. And because they bring back fond memories. Ah, the joys of being young!
Nothing is better than a Berenstain Bears book. I read them as a child and now I read them to my child. This is a favorite in our house, due to the scary nature of a 5 year old having to sleep all by himself.
Brother Bear gets a spooky mystery book out of the library and reads it to Sister Bear. But it scares her and Brother Bear can't resist the temptation to give her a bit of a fright in the middle of the night, causing chaos. Very funny!
For some reason, we had a bunch of Berenstain Bear books when my daughter was young.. pretty likable and easy going. I don't remember them, but they aren't on this site yet. I think this one was one, but not sure. Variety is good!
weird thing....i was never afraid of the dark, but i had a nightlight as a kid. really, the only reason i kept it was because i used to sneak out of bed and read by the light of the nightlight....i was such a freak.....
This is great book for students to use musical instruments to this book. It is also a great book for a read-aloud around Halloween. This book doesn't say anything about Halloween, but it gives off the idea of Halloween.
This is a great book to read for understanding sequencing. This book is also a great book to do a character study activity since there are a lot of Berenstain Bears books. I think students will enjoy these books because they are fun books to read and listen to.
I liked all of the Berenstain Bears books, but I particularly related to this one because I was scared of the dark as a child. I think a lot of kids are and I like how this book helps them realize they aren't alone and gives them ways to deal with the dark.
After reading a scary story with Brother, Sister is having a hard time falling asleep. The normally cozy comfortable room seems filled with scary shadows and not at all cozy. Following a ruff night, where none of the Bear family got much sleep, Papa comes up with a plan to help Sister out.
