https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1450946.Enchantress_from_the_Stars
This is my best-known novel. Though often given to children as young as the 6th grade because it was a Newbery Honor book, it is really intended for teens and is also enjoyed by many adults.
When I was a young teen I found this book in the early 70s, in the shipboard library on the USS Woodrow Wilson. I was utterly enthralled, and saved up until I could buy my own copy -- my very first hardback fiction purchase! I still have that volume, which introduced me to SF and probably got me where I am today. Yes, it's that good!
"Your feelings for a person who has come to mean something to you colors all your memories, so that you can't describe them effectively." —Elana, "Enchantress from the Stars", PP.
68-69 "If we don't approach this with warmth and compassion and faith in these people as human beings, we haven't a chance of succeeding." —Elana's father, "Enchantress from the Stras", P.
98 The first book I read that really gave me an exceedingly high view of the potentials in the science fiction genre was Nancy Farmer's "The House of the Scorpion", and I am saying an awful lot when I state that I would place "Enchantress from the Stars" in the same company.
I really enjoyed this older YA SF, and will again when it comes up in the Newbery club in the Children's Books group.
Sure, there was an awful lot of discussion and not a whole heck of a lot of action, but that's fine by me because I do read SF for the 'what if' exploration of ideas.
and fans of her Newbery winning SF would probably like this, too.Should generate a good discussion in the club...
would probably lead to even richer conversations in a teen reading group.Only a couple of quotes, because most of the book isn't pithy.
I recall Miep Gies commenting that the only way to decide to help people instead of abandoning them (or worse yet, helping hurt them) was never to believe that anyone deserves what happens to them.I don't agree that the Andrecians have no 'technology'.
At least one of my anthropology teachers argued that a main reason for the collapse of the Roman empire was actually a progressive technological development.
It's also dangerous, because it leads to the notion that people who don't have 'technology' in the narrow sense that's used aren't fully human.It's a pity, really.
I first read this book when I was in the sixth grade, and it changed my life.
Not only was this the first science fiction story I'd ever read, it was my introduction to the idea that where you come from shapes how you see and interpret the world.The story is presented as an intersection of fairy tale and sci-fi adventure, with the medieval residents of the planet Andrecia interpreting the high tech tools of an advanced civilization as a "dragon".
The two other two p.o.v. characters share her idealistic qualities, each expressing them through the lense of his own unique background.
Read as a youth, and remembered as a short story until I ran into Cheryl's review (thanks again!) Picked it up from the library and took out the book for a second spin.The overarching structure is quite clever: the tripartite narrative of a medieval native of a planet, an advanced alien invader, and another, far more advanced alien -- the titular Enchantress -- who is trying to get the second group of aliens to give up their attempt to settle the planet while not letting either group know who she really is.Unfortunately, the creativity of the structure wasn't matched by the creativity of the content.
There's a sequel - also read when I was young - but I think I will leave it be.
The protagonist, a student Elana, belongs to this society of peaceful explorers.
He resolves to perform a heroic deed – kill the ‘dragon’ – and Elana and her crew are set on helping him to drive the dragon (aka the Empire colonists) off Andrecia – for the good of Andrecia, I presume.But what methods could they use without revealing themselves?
Lives are worthless to them compared to their lofty principles.They pull Georyn’s strings like experienced puppeteers, and even Elana, who is falling in love with the young man, obeys her captain’s decrees and plays the role of an ‘enchantress from the stars’, granting Georyn some ‘magical’ wishes and assigning him pretty harrying tasks.
That’s why I don’t think I like Elana much.
Told from three different viewpoints, this story of members of an advanced civilization trying to protect a fledgling society from being conquered by another race of starfarers gets at the heart of what it means to be civilized.Each character comes from a race at different stages of development: Georyn's people are at what we'd call a medieval level of society, Elana is a member of an extremely advanced civilization that has moved past war and conquest, and Jarel's society is technologically advanced but still trying to conquer other worlds.
As someone who has watched way too much Star Trek, this book is basically an exposition on the Prime Directive.
Elena is a trainee about to enter the service which protects "younger" civilizations from self-destruction or domination by other species.
At the end Elena must leave Georyn behind to protect his species.The story is good, and the book is well written.
I've never liked books written in the first person, and the dominant story line is told in the first person.
I might have given it 4 stars, if it weren't in the first person.
This is not the best science fiction ever, but I loved the idea of the three levels of development for civilizations and people too: First wonder and believing in the supernatural, second discarding superstition and revering science, and finally the discovery is made that what was termed "supernatural" (or faith) has been perfectly natural all along and is in reality a part of the very science that sought to reject it.
Ten to fifteen years after reading this book, I still remember the scene in which the anthropologist-from-the-stars gives the woodcutter-who-believes-in-magic orange soda, and he's like "magic elixer!" Hah! Loved this story of high technology and low meeting--it's kinda a Prime Directive parable.
To take up this task is a poor woodcutter's youngest son, aided by a beautiful enchantress and a wise old man who give him three tasks and reward him with the magical gift needed to defeat the dragon."Enchantress from the Stars" retells this story from the point of view of Elana, the young "enchantress" who is, in fact, a member of a far more advanced race charged with watching over the young society of the Andrecians (the society to which the woodcutter's son belongs) and protecting them from a more advanced society which has invaded and is using their machines (read: dragon) to colonize Andrecia.
...I didn't like this.I really wanted to like it!
1. I didn't particularly like any of the characters.
The whole book itself moved really slowly and even at the climax, I didn't really want to see what happened next.
I didn't really care about the characters or the story.4.
That whole romantic subplot thing was kind of weird.
I don't mind romantic subplots at all!
This one just didn't work, because I felt like it was just there.
The characters brought up a lot of interesting moral views that were really cool to read about.
I read about this young adult fiction in the Chinaberry catalog.
It's a Newberry Honor Book that had been out of print.
What a delightful book -- full of mythology and symbolism and right vs.
wrong dilemmas.
Elana is a stowaway on a Federation Anthropological Service mission headed by her father.
They go to a "youngling" world to try to stop interference from another society invading the planet.
Elana becomes the key to the mission, and it's fraught with dangers and difficult decisions.
Elana's choices help her grow, and her courage when all seems lost is heartwrenching.
What a WONDERFUL book for young and old alike.
An old fashioned science fiction YA book with a bit of a Star Trek vibe (I love Star Trek!). I have to admit that it's obviously well-written and the plot and characters are interesting. Moreover, it has some of my favourite elements, like a clash of different cultures or a more or less believable romance. It also has an important message. It's definitely worth reading. Still, because of the writing style (some POVs are like memoirs, some like legends of the round table), it's just not really captivating. Mostly not atmospheric. Why? It could have been great...
I'm rounding this up from 3, because grade-school me would have LOVED this book at a 5+.
With this Newbery honor book, you get space-oriented fairytale fantasy action that would leave Joseph Campbell proud of the hero quest that is involved and Gene Roddenberry nodding at the oath that regulates the interaction of an advanced race with those that are below it.
The undertone of preachiness and advocacy of manipulation training keeps adult me from hitting that 5-star mark, but I still enjoyed the read.
Still - for 1970, Elana was a remarkably advanced young female protagonist.
I thought I had a coherent review in my head, but I think instead I have a scattering of points, centered on each POV:1) Georyn is by far the highlight of this book, and the style and voice of his sections are my favourite.
What I was so excited about in 2014 was a book that gave so much dignity and respect to someone from a roughly medieval situation--this is sadly lacking in a lot of public understanding and even historical fiction.
I'm so glad I decided to reread Sylvia Engdahl's Enchantress from the Stars for my Newbery reading challenge.
(I love it when a book rereads well.
That's one way you can distinguish between a good book and a great book.) I would definitely say it's a premise-driven book, but, that being said there is plenty of action and plenty of characterization.
Georyn is a native to Andrecia; Jarel is from another planet, a planet in a different stage than Georyn's, but a great deal less advanced than Elana's.
These brothers see Elana an an enchantress, a faery perhaps.
I loved Elana.
I loved Jarel.
This book is, like, on the level where I can't even articulate the degree of wonderfulness that it achieves so I'm sitting here gaping and making indeterminate hand gestures.
It's a book that really makes you think and touches your heart, and gives you the immense pleasure of inhabiting this strange and intriguing and wonderful and often scary new planet for a little while.
read this book.[Also, I must mention how gorgeous the cover art is.
And it's not too fancy, but I love the inside text layout.]
I thought this book was very good theoretically, but somehow was missing something in actuality.
The concepts about fairy tales, science, and how civilization moves from myth to science to something else beyond- in this particular story telepathic powers- were really fabulous as well as the rigor, rationalization, and practice of leaving less developed civilizations alone.
Perhaps it is that the love story seems more of a literary fairy tale while the rest of the book could be a beautifully rendered science fiction tale.
However, the author has chosen to make it a fictional account of what the others might have been thinking by the main character, rationalizing the homogenization, yet taking the easy way out.
A great sci-fi book in the same way that "The Giver" by Lois Lowry is. Philosophy, a great boook for pleasure reading or a book report. Some cheesy lines here and there, but it adds to the charm. Its a good book to think about, and dscuss with friends.
I changed this rating from a 2 to a 4. I reread this book and I like it much better. So many concepts are amazing.
The main 'problem' with the book is a galaxy full of inhabited planets where all the naturally-occurring intelligent life is human, or very nearly so; but paying attention to alien biology would be to miss the point of the book (and in 1970, it was still a somewhat acceptable idea).The book is a clash between three civilizations, with a viewpoint character from each one.
There are plenty of problems of course, and it makes a good YA adventure, with a certain amount of philosophy and growing up.The main part that works is each of the three viewpoint character's sections are written differently.
But try to undo it she does, along with two other agents, and together they create a plan involving the native man Georyn, whose real belief in magic and superstition might just be the key to everything.OH my goodness this was a surprisingly great read.
Teens are introduced to some pretty intriguing topics in a way that's really accessible - the idea of colonizers viewing native populations as "lesser than" or that anyone who is less technologically advanced is somehow beneath you.
There is a sweet romantic plot and I liked how we got to see the story from both Elana and Georyn's points of view.
But...I hate love triangles, and I did NOT buy the ending.(view spoiler)[It also reads like an episode of Star Trek: The Next Generation where Wesley goes planetside against orders, is forced to clean up his mess and does so mostly by luck, then gets unequivocally praised by Picard when he gets back.
And that's not even covering the craptastic way the main character treats the Love of Her Life--falling in love with someone else, emotionally ditching him even though he's telepathically aware of what's going on, and then assuming he'll fall in line after she's forced to ditch guy #2.
(When one thinks about it, I immediately think of Fermi's paradox and The Drake Equation and how these work together to inspire thoughts of many, many planets that may exist like our own.)Elana is a part of a "more advanced" civilization that has peace keeping duties across the galaxy.
This is a wonderful blend of "fantasy" and science fiction, as the explanation for the Federation's help is described in the way of magic (Enchantress, Starwatcher and their gifts) and the defeat of a "Dragon".This was a fun read and really deals with topics of colonialism and culture.
I liked how this didn't turn out amazingly well in the end, it made it seem more real.While I was reading it, I realized Younglings are like what we used to be in, like, the 1200s.
idk when Shakespear was around, but 1200s seem like the right time.
But it's kind of Brave New World themed, like "this might be us though that's not very likely, but use your imaginations" (I've never read Brave New World, but from what I've heard, it seems pretty similar to this book).Overall, it was pretty interesting and did a good job of keeping you interested until the end.
The story as told from the "Youngling" planet native point-of-view felt like a fairy tale quest type of story, yet was more of a science fiction adventure story from the technologically advanced visitor-from-space "Enchantress" point-of-view.
That made me think about other stories I've read that were fairy tale quest-types and how it would be interesting if there was also a science fiction adventure story to go along with them.
Anyhow, I liked thinking about the concept and how a familiar story could be very different when told from the point-of-view of another character who has a very different interpretation of events, objects, etc., because of their advanced knowledge.
I really liked the mix of different genres and registers but woooooooffff, some of the real-life implications are NOT GREAT. I can see why it’s a classic that people always bring up but I was uneasy with lots of it.
