https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/438131.Incident_at_Hawk_s_Hill
He has not only captured the world as seen from the point of view of toddler Ben, but also from the point of view of the badger!!
The interactions between Ben and the badger is appropriately progressive from the beginning, starting with a lack of trust to a growth of trust.
Then, when Ben is hungry, and she proposes her milk is equally moving.Ben’s survival in the underground didn’t stretch credibility, and when the badger tickles his feet to push him out made me laugh.The scene where the badger fights the dog to save Ben, and when she shows up at his parents house are not only touching but also perfectly credible.
The little one and I both highly enjoyed this story. I had read it myself back when I was her age, and remembered only that I thought it was 'gnarly.' (Leave me alone, man, it was the mid-eighties.)It's a well-written and excellently-paced story of survival, acceptance, and perseverance. And, now that I read it with adult eyes, it may be the first novel I'd ever read that had an autistic protagonist.Did I cry at the end? Maybe. Hey, shut up, my daughter did, too.
I loved it with my whole heart then, and was relieved to find that I still love it.This story, allegedly based on a true incident, is about a boy who lives with a badger for a period of time.
The natural history details are glorious- everything you ever wanted to know about badgers, their habits, their diets, and their vocalizations!
The story itself is good, though a touch on the melodramatic side.Recommended for natural history people and animal lovers with a high tolerance for exhaustively detailed descriptions of the omnivorous badger's diet (which included lots of cute furry things).
My reading group just finished this book today. It's high praise when a fifth grader hands you the book and says, "Best book ever." with eyes shining. It's the (possibly) true story of a young boy who wanders away from home and bonds with a badger in the wild. The author writes about the animals and humans in a very realistic way. And the ending, while kind of manipulative, tugs at you even after you've finished the book. It will be on my class reading list every year.
This book is about a young boy who is able to copy animal sounds and then one day gets lost in the woods and it starts to storm so he seeks shelter in a badger hole then soon the badger comes back soon they develop a friendship that will be put to the test.I loved this book because every thing was described so well that you would think that you were there!I learned that true long lasting friendship is a road with a lot of hardships and happiness.
I also wanted to revisit it to see why I hated it so much and to see if I could figure out why a teacher would include it in their lesson plans.After a second reading I can honestly say that I really hate this book.To begin with, I don't typically enjoy nature, adventure stories.
This is a great book. Very detailed. I may have learned more than I ever wanted to know about badgers, but I did fall in love with little Ben and his adopted badger-mom. As a side note, it's very interesting to see the differences in children's literature since this book was published (1972) and now. This book by today's standards would be very slow and boring, with not much action. It's really too bad that our children are growing up on Captain Underpants instead of quality books like this one.
1.Six-year-old Ben is very small for his age, and gets along better with animals than people.
One June day in 1870, Ben wanders away from his home on Hawk's Hill and disappears into the waving prairie grass.
This book would be a good read for 3rd-5th grade3.
I would use this book when discussing wildlife or with a history lesson on life before the 1900's.4.
Kids could use this book to do a literature circle or a jackdaw project with.6.
This book could be fun to read to the class aloud but I don't think I would use it.7.
This might be the best book you never read.
Maybe you saw the movie during primary school.
Maybe someone read it to you when you were young and you have this vague recollection of a story about a little boy and a badger...
but you can't quite recall...I originally read Incident at Hawk's Hill when I was eight and loved it.
It inspired my love of nature.
It's the first book that evoked emotion from me, anger, fear, grief, joy.
It is definitely going on my "All time loves" shelf.(l
We picked this book because Joshua is writing his 3rd grade Mammal Report on badgers.
In this true story, a 6 year old boy wanders away from home and gets lost on the prairie in 1870.
A mother badger who just lost her babies finds the boy and cares for him for 2 months until he is found.
Joshua was mesmerized by the story and all the details of nature.
Rachel liked the story line but wasn't as interested in all the badger details.
There is some "nature violence" and death, and Josh was in tears when the badger ate baby mice.
This book brought to mind Walt Whitman's "Sometimes I think I could turn and live with animals." It's lovely to know that the story's based on a true incident of a badger caring for a boy. Here the author develops that intriguing germ of an idea into a book that also speaks about acceptance and understanding of those who don't conform to expected norms and about the power of love to bridge distances and bring healing to a troubled family. Especially recommended for animal and nature lovers.
Sometimes you just wanna live with badgers. Read this as a child. Can't remember much, other than wanting to hang out with badgers. Little me couldn't get enough of these types of books.
Book was incredible...highly recommend. Left me hanging at the end which was really tough to sleep after reading this.
Everyone thrived except the youngest child, Ben. At six years old, he was much smaller than other children his own age.
Some believe Eckert’s story is based on legend while others think that it came from an article about a boy who, in 1873, lived in a badger hole for 10 days.
Because of the emotional commitment required on the reader’s part, the author should have provided a definitive ending merely out of a sense of obligation…especially given the age of the intended audience.
This is not one of those stories and will undoubtedly leave the reader growling, chittering, wailing, and hissing and sounding very much like an angry badger.
I read this book to my 8 year old son who struggles to pay attention and listen to read a louds.
He does however love books about animals.
This book came up in my good reads feed and since it is a Newberry Honor Winner, I decided to read it.
This is one of those books that is equally entertaining to both child and adult.
I enjoyed this book so much that I could have read this book on my own!Also, I read on Wikipedia that although the Newberry is a children’s book award, this book was originally published as an adult book.
If you liked "Old Yeller," read this book. If you liked Jody and Fodder-wing in "The Yearling," read this book. If you cried in the last few pages of "Where the Red Fern Grows," you'll be crying in the final pages of this story. Six-year old Ben is a fragile, introspective wild child, more at ease with barnyard animals than with people, even his own parents and siblings. Time and circumstances bring Ben and a ferocious badger together as allies licking each other's wounds. Read this book. It will be good for your soul.
I can't believe I only just now read this book! Growing up, I loved reading stories about nature especially if it was a true tale! This one is fascinating. The writing quality is excellent. There are a few incidents where God's name is taken in vain. No other swear words. I recommend this book for lovers of nature and young readers studying animals! There is a detailed introduction to badgers in this book!
A boy small for his age , who indeed loves animals, goes missing. Ben lives with badger, who fiercely protects him. The young boy becomes as a badger with only those instincts, he doesn't even recognize his brother when he is found. The boy lives between the lives of humans and the lives of badgers, two worlds , one boy. A heart wrenching story as a little boy has to bury his best friend and becomes a man!
I'm wondering how I missed this book as a child. I enjoyed reading it with my son.There are some slow elements, but it builds to a climax that kept us fascinated. The MacDonalds farm on the prairie near Winnipeg, Canada. The youngest son, Ben, has a natural affinity for animals and spends days observing and imitating them. When their rough neighbor kills a badger, it sets off a chain of events that leave Ben lost in the prairie and his family searching for him.
I loved this book, even the grisly fight scenes which usually repulse me. The author's descriptions, especially of the natural world, are so detailed and fascinating that I felt like I was there. There is enough suspense for those who like action. Due to violence, I recommend it to high school and adults only. [After I wrote this I found out this book was originally published as an adult novel and that later it became the basis for a Disney TV movie.]
A captivating book based on a true occurrence of a 6 year boy wandering away from home and living in the wild for 2 months and survived only because a badger rescued him. On the boy's behalf he was very attuned to nature and spent hours and hours watching animals, imitating both body movements and sounds. Beautifully written. Have a tissue by your side as you read.
You've got to be a nature lover to enjoy this rather eccentric tale of a boy adopted by a badger. The story takes place in Canada and is full of rich descriptions of the landscape, flora and fauna. The novel starts off rather slow but becomes quite intriguing at the end. This novel might appeal to, mostly, boys that identify with being different.
This was my favourite book as a child; I read it at least four times. It's heart-warming and the relationship described between the badger and the boy is remarkable.
Such a good story!
One of my favorites from elementary school
❤
J'ai trouvé l'intrigue sympa, d'autant qu'elle s'inspire d'une histoire vraie. En revanche, je ne recommanderais pas ce livre à des enfants de 8 ans, il y a beaucoup trop de passages violents.
Good little story. Read it to a group of kids and they thoroughly enjoyed it.
Worldview: Universally AcceptableAgeRead Aloud - 6 yrs +Independent Reader - 9 yrs + Setting:Location - Winnipeg, Red River, ManitobaTime Period - 1870Review: This is an uplifting, touching story about a small boy who becomes lost in the prairies near Winnipeg. He has a natural affinity to animals and survives two months alone through his friendship with a badger. There is a wealth of naturalistic information presented in this book. The habits of badgers and beautiful descriptions of the prairie
He has a natural affinity to animals and survives two months alone through his friendship with a badger.
An underlying theme of this book is certainly being a good steward of nature and being a responsible hunter who does not allow an animal to suffer.
This presents an interesting opportunity to have a student research documented cases of animals adopting young of a different species when their own offspring die, allowing them to draw their own conclusions as to whether the book is fact or fiction.This book gives a wonderful feel for the prairie environment.
Each incident is true to real life and nature.
Most are hunted by the badger herself, but several animals are trapped in leg traps and suffering.
George Burton is a trapper, he traps animals in a very cruel way, and he lets them suffer.
One day Ben goes out on to the prairie, he meets some type of animal he has never seen before, it’s a badger.
Ben realizes that she is a mama badger and he finds her three dead mice.
Later on Burton goes and puts a trap a few yards away from the badger’s den.
The male badger gets trap.
Burton puts another trap and the female badger gets trapped.
The badger and Ben had been through a lot.
