https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/824986.The_Quincunx
If every other novel was like this it would be terrible.
Empires might tumble, Bob Dylan might be chosen as the next Pope, I wouldn't notice.Anyway, fortunately, most novels aren't either this good or this long, so we can live reasonably normal lives.The Quincunx involves lots of delicious Victorian squalor, detail upon detail of filth and horror, the bilgewaters floweth and the sewers burst forth, there are villains, people have goitres, there are beatings, and I think there's a little donkey in there somewhere.
Weightier than a bag of coal and with more pages than her majesty's coronation.
I view my current love of this sort of Victorian era homage with the highest amusement for, despite having recently read and enjoyed The Crimson Petal and the White and Jonathan Strange & Mr Norrell and now The Quincunx, I am yet to read the books which these so lovingly ape.
This is a good book for those of you out there who want complexity, density and longevity in a read.
i also have to say that i was let down by the curiously drab ending...
the various activities by the incredibly large number of villains made me long for justice, revenge, just anything, really.
wish-fulfillment should never be the goal of any reader but it's hard to avoid wishing for some kind of payback if the catastrophes that befall sympathetic characters are so deviously engineered yet so banally evil...
and there certainly was no wish fulfillment in this novel.
all that said, and drab ending aside, this is a rich and nourishing novel.
i read the last third all through one long night and into the next day.
But that didn't stop me from reading more and more books like them.Fast-forward to my early twenties.
I was at a bookstore, and found this beautiful artwork on the dust jacket of this very thick book by an author I had never heard of: Charles Palliser.
The story, like a Dickens book, is complex, mysterious, and full of adventure.
The point is that if what I have described thus far fills you with visions of curling up with a book in your favorite reading corner while you shut out the world, this is the book for you.
Five stars for the book for being immersive and awesome. Five star for me for reading an 800 page book. We're both winners here. Or losers depending on your perspective. Also - I'm going to read only very short books from now on. Pamphlets. Can you rate pamphlets on Goodreads?
The stylization is perfect.“Loomed at us from the shadows like a theatrical show: the drawn faces of the very poor, the laughing faces of those in funds or already drunk, but always, in one form or another, misery and fear and shame and desperation, whether clothed in rags or in tawdry finery, and everywhere a profligacy of children – children of all ages, children in tatters, dirty, with unkempt hair, their chests pinched inwards and their legs bowed, and with running sores on their faces or on their limbs that were visible through their rags; children running, fighting, stealing, swarming in the kennels.”Beginning with the early childhood Charles Palliser keeps pitilessly driving his hero into the darkest of all the corners… “I understood what I had to do, though my conscience and my stomach alike revolted against it.
The Quincunx is a mystery novel with just a little postmodern twist in it – the reader must find the solution to the mystery on one’s own.
It had every Victorian trope imaginable: the lost inheritance, the fatherless hero, the consumptive beauty, the abandoned manor, the mysterious break-in, the lost birth certificate, the evil money-hungry miser, the intolerable boys' school, the nightmarish insane asylum, the missing will, the charming crook, the grave robber, the poor starving governess, the vermin-ridden slums, and so on and so on, all packed into one frustrating yet compelling plot.
It's absorbing, despite the occasional and annoyingly heavy-handed Victorianisms -- when you can practically hear the ominous music in the background -- which you have to forgive, because they're actually part of the whole parody/send-up.
A tatty old copy of this book arrived in the mail today (April 8, 2011).It has particular significance to me, because I first read about it in a newspaper review of another book ("if you like The Quincunx, you will like" this other book).I had never heard of this unusual word or the book, and promptly googled it.I found Paul Bryant's GR review of it, and thus began a lifelong obsession with GR (and Paul Bryant).
Throw in opium addiction, prostitution, money-laundering, grave-robbing, duels, murders and mayhem; plunk it down in (extremely well-researched) early 19thC London, divide it up into five books representing five families, and spin it all around a will, a codicil to a will, another will, and an heir: a young boy, John, who doesn’t know who his father is and whose life, quite literally, depends on his ability to figure it all out … and you have The Quincunx.
They affected John, but he didn’t know how, he didn’t who his father was, and he didn’t know who his friends and enemies were.He did know that he was in danger, caught in a complicated conspiracy, and that he had to work out how to survive and claim the inheritance that he believed was his.Every kind of character, every scenario, every setting, you might think of finding in a Victorian novel is to be found in this book.Sometimes the plot lingers, but I found the details of day to day living and how practical problems were faced quite fascinating.
The language, the plot curves, the characters, the settings, these elements all work admirably towards that end.
If you are transported by historically accurate nineteenth century details; if you love very, very complex mysteries; if intrigues and the Gordian knots of family genealogies lure you; if the you are charmed by the reconstruction of pre-Victorian plot conventions, this book is definitely for you.
And, therefore, these explications become numerous, frequent, and tedious.But many readers, I am certain, will very much enjoy the unraveling of this complex puzzle.
I had very high hopes for this novel--the author is obviously highly imaginative and has great potential talent (atmosphere is arguably the main character in this novel, and he has obviously spent much time and energy devoted to researching his subject)--however, this first novel, overall, I found hideously disappointing.
The ending is a complete disappointment as well, after 780-odd pages of redundant detail, the reader is left unsatisfied as to the few aspects of the plot that you can manage to care about.
- so after hearing her rave about it, I decided I had to re-read it, & I loved it even more the 2nd time!
It's the story of young John, who may (or may not) be the lost heir to a great estate.
In the process he slowly learns the family history, meets a beautiful & mysterious girl, finds out who his true friends are, & learns a lot of very convoluted English inheritance/estate law!
The first time I read it, I actually kept notes & as I went along, developed lots of bizarre theories about some of the central mysteries of the book.
There is a helpful list of characters in the back, and it is important since some characters seem to go by more than one name.As the novel proceeds, it becomes both more convoluted even as it begins to fill in blank spaces of the plot so that the reader gains insight into the issues and personalities involved.
One wonders - at least I do - why, in 1989, Palliser would choose to write a “Victorian” novel, a novel evocative of the style and times of the mid to late 19th century.
And it is interesting to examine in what ways his novel is necessarily different from those earlier works, in what ways it is also quintessentially late 20th century.
Palliser's book makes a grand Dickensian sweep through the slums and ballrooms of Victorian England.
Palliser did extensive research into the period, and intricate detail lends marvelously to the setting.
Intricate legal mechanisms were devised by rich landowners to deprive the poor of whatever little land they owned; more machinations made things worse by driving the price o flab or down.
If a dead body was found, it was the custom not to strip it for anything valuable (like clothes), because after the body washed into the river it would be scavenged by those who eked out their living in such a manner.
please, please don't waste your time, this is over 1000 pages of tripe.!
The Author tries to be too clever, claiming this is an attempt to "play with the conventions of a victorian novel".
What is particularly irritating is that there is probably a good book buried in here somewhere, at half the length and told in a more straightforward way this would have been a good read, as the man can write, but this is not that book unfortunately.
This continued for many years and I'd wager if circumstances allowed such, we'd all still gather and view the film again.
By consensus our chief complaint was the too- tidy character of X, played with aplomb by Donald Sutherland.
This walking Rosetta Stone meets Jim Garrison at Arlington National and proceeds to connect all the dots in Garrison's investigation.
The primary characters would make impossibly stupid decisions, regroup and continue.
Nearing collapse, the reader is more fortunate than John Huffam as a whole cadre of Donald Sutherlands step forward and reveal ALL the veiled areas of the multifaceted plot.
This is a masterful novel, both a parody and a celebration of a Dickensian novel. It's set in Victorian London and teems with mysteries, strange enemies, colourful characters, great inheritance... It's an unputdownable, giant of a novel of great complexity and intelligence. It's one of those rare books you wish to read all over again once you've finished it -- despite its great lenght.
I suspended my disbelief for far too long, and what did I receive at the end?
The lengths the author went to in letting us know that there was no pattern or higher meaning to the "hero"'s struggles and suffering was in itself far too fraught with coincidence to be credible.
A young man is persecuted literally from one end of England to the other, and every single person he meets is part of a vast conspiracy to do him harm.
Not one charitable stranger emerges who doesn't know something about him to his or her own advantage.
Holy Cow what a page turner, and it better freaken be at 700 something pages!!! I may have made a big mistake reading this now that school is back in session, I may not finish it till schools out. All that aside its really good. It feels like a really good Dickens with lots of crazy characters and twists and turns. Love it!!!Now that I've finished it I'm a bit bummed with the ending. But then again how very Dickens. He seemed to have some trouble wrapping up his endings as well. Ah the same I still loved it!!
And perhaps it takes the Dickens to 11 at the very least, both in terms of legal/inheritance wrangling as plot driver and of risible degrees and numbers of coincidences at least in that Dickens' and Palliser's Londons have hilariously small populations.And there is still more to keep the 21st century reader chuckling, for about halfway through, when a certain heraldry puzzle assumes paramount importance, the penny drops and one realizes she is in fact reading a high quality prose version of a hidden object game.
I read this book a gazillion years ago and loved it. You might not. Do you like Dickens? Because I think that would be a minimum requirement for liking this book. So, if characters like Pip and Mrs. Haversham break you out in a rash, don't read this book. Rashes are gross.
Bettie's Books
Recall that time when themes were veiled in multiple layers of plot and characters, that era in which an author might freely discourse with his reader.It is to this previous epoch, more than to our own, that The Quincunx, Charles Palliser’s novel of early 19th-century England belongs.The Oxford English Dictionary defines ‘quincunx’ as ‘an arrangement or disposition of five objects so placed that the four occupy the corners, and the fifth the centre’.
For a decade, the Huffam heirs have feuded, employing both legal and criminal means, for the control of a vast fortune, the disposition of which depends upon the suppression, destruction or revelation of a codicil to a will.The central figure of Palliser’s quincunx is John Mellamphy.
This book was full of twists and turns.
It was definitely a little confusing determining the family lineage at times, and I got confused with how inter-connected every character was in the novel.
But it was a joy to read.
It follows the life of a young London boy, and all the travesties, mostly, for there was little joy in his life, that he miraculously overcame either by his own wits or the help of people he knew little of.
They travel to London to escape their pursuers, but are endlessly faced with problems once they reach that destination.
If you love historical mystery fiction, this is definitely the book for you!
Five stars.
Long and windy, knotted up family histories, inheritances, betrayals, greed and power, estate law and wills, so much London, and mostly the nasty bits you don't often read about.
It's not perfect, most of the characters make you want to throttle them in some way, but intricately researched and planned, spirals upon webs of inter-connected plots and people that was so satisfying to see come together.
I read nearly 1000 pages in a month so it tells me something.
Like Bleak House and The Woman in White and a bunch of other things dashed in as well.
I like Charles Palliser.
This novel is one of my all-time favorites which I've never successfully turned anyone on to. Though it starts slow, it becomes an entirely new novel once the main characters move to London. A really well-crafted Dickensian novel that partially incorporates the life of Dickens himself. There's a lot of depth here of which I'm sure I've only scratched the surface.
Somehow I had come to believe that both the story and the prose were 19th Century.
The prose however, did not seem to me to be 19th Century.
I have certainly seen trowsers in Trollope's novels, so it isn't as if I haven't ignored such spelling previously.
There are plenty of novels set in the 19th Century that don't resort to such pretense.We know from the beginning that there are nefarious plots afoot.
Despite this, I kept reading.
Goodness knows I have had the wherewithal to abandon a book.
(Actually the edition I read is 781 pages).
So I kept reading.
A young english boy, eventually man, goes through all these horrendous experiences because he is the secret heir to a fortune and numerous other people (who all benefit from his NOT becoming the heir)want to kill him.
He is subjected to a litany of tortures (you get the feeling the author wants the reader to vicariously experience every possible early nineteenth century disaster there was to experience) before emerging...
Well, I'm not going to say how he emerges, because that would give it away, but let's say after all the hell he went through, I was hoping for something more satisfying.
The author clearly knows a a lot about his period and mines it for all its worth.
My first read from this author and I had high hopes for this book.
I ended up sorely disappointed.The author, obviously, is a fan of Dickens.
The language and "feel" of the book definitely spoke that clearly.
I'm not asking for a fairy tale ending or that everyone lives "happily ever after" (which anyone who reads this book would never buy), but give me a tiny bit of closure at least.It has been a long while since I have read a book and am left with the feeling that I wasted my time.
This book left me feeling just that though.
