https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85957.Assassins
Due to my personal belief in the Bible, I have found this entire series to be extremely entertaining and sometimes a little scary. I strongly recommend reading the series in chronological order, or there will be a lot of details that won't make sense. I realize atheists, agnostics, other religions, and even some Christian sects will scoff at the whole concept of the series, and that is their prerogative. I still think they might find the books entertaining, regardless of their theistic leaning. I definitely recommend reading these books.
And Rayford, filled with the grief and rage he feels, knows what he must do.
Being the leader of this group means he must burden himself with the murder of Antichrist.Rayford is short with his friends and family.
Between the two of them, the Tribulation Force is able to know what is going on, what is being plotted and what has actually transpired.
Only the believers can see these deadly horsemen though, leaving the Global Community pointing fingers at the Tribulation Force and their followers.
Some members of the Tribulation Force get to witness first hand the resurrection of two of the murder victims.
It seemed like the authors were just trying too hard to make some things come to life.
Whenever that happens (and it happens fairly often), the authors go into a lonnnnng tangent to explain the "whats," "hows," and "whys" for whatever technology they are using.
It COULD work!" Also, some of the characters go into some kind of "funk" and it is never truly explained what is happening with them.
When you follow a set of characters through six books and something is glaringly wrong, you want to know why.
Anyway, I still liked it okay, and I'm glad I read it so I can move on to the next book.
Assassins , the sixth book in the Left Behind Series, presents an interesting moral dilemma. The Tribulation Saints know from their study of Scripture that someone will assassinate the Antichrist. Which is convenient since several characters become so enraged at Carpathia that they’re willing to be the ones to do it. However, Rayford Steele is now a believer. His growing anger at and hatred of Carpathia represent sin in his life that needs to be dealt with. Since Rayford isn’t willing to repent
The Tribulation Saints know from their study of Scripture that someone will assassinate the Antichrist.
The plot of this book grows a bit complicated as old and new characters fight to survive, work to foil the Antichrist’s plot, and struggle to protect their loved ones.
All who have closed their hearts to God see only nature’s forces.This reminded me of a story from II Kings about the Old Testament prophet Elisha.
Based on such stories, the authors imagined a great gift for the Tribulation saints: the ability to discern what’s really going on in the world around them—no matter how many others remain blind.
It's still rife with problems, though; the kid referenced in my last review is now 14 months old, even though by the end of the book it's 3 years, six months into the Apocalypse.
Now, this might not seem like a big deal BUT: the parents don't meet until after the Rapture, and they didn't marry (and certainly weren't having premarital sex) until at least a year and half after said Rapture, probably slightly longer.
we have two years.
Two years and nine months.
9 months!
JUST BASIC MATH!
MY GODS DOES YOUR GOD PROHIBIT BASIC MATHS?
The book was really slow, but the ending...😱 OH MY WORD!!!
In the meantime, Nicolae is working to restore order from all the damage that was done from "The Rapture"; he is rebuilding roads and airports and a cellular/solar satellite phone system--all designed to help him become supreme ruler of the world.The members of the Tribulation Force are fugitives hiding at the safe house where they fear they may have been compromised while at the same time the world is facing more judgement that wipes out a third of the remaining population.Dr. LaHaye and Jerry Jenkins provide a fictional background for the real events that the final book of The Bible, Revelation, speak about: the end times.
This book was too slow in parts. I think the next one might have more action(I hope).
While this book continued the tradition in the series so far (this is book 6) of being engaging and interesting, I would say this book was not as good as the last three books in the series, which have been absolute gems.
Nevertheless, the book was still great and was crafted into quite a good story.
The cliffhanger at the end definitely got me.
I love how this book really gets me thinking about the book of Revelation and the truth that many of us forget to face within God's word about the upcoming end times.
I read what I did of this series because it was one of the few books my then-husband would read, and I wanted to be able to discuss books with him. I won't be reading more of these books, or re-reading any of the ones I already read, and reading them didn't help give me and my ex-husband anything interesting to talk about anyway since he didn't want to hear the ways in which my opinion on the series varied from his.
The action in these novels continue to accelerate.
People die.
People are saved.
There's a cliffhanger that makes me very glad I already have the next book.
They're cleverer than you think)Test books like these against the Bible, always They're fiction, the Bible is the truth.
It's good to think on these subjects because no-one knows how soon the end of the world might be.
Finally, this book is a reminder we can't hide our sin behind God & His word.
People have done this through history (Crusades, persecution) God will have His way, not you.
The ends don't justify the means.
(hide spoiler)]I did not necessarily like the character development (or lack thereof) or character regression that went on in the book.
I do realize some of what Rayford is going through is no doubt pretty realistic; I still did not like what the authors did to him or his character.
(hide spoiler)]One thing that I do like is the book's cover.
(view spoiler)[It just really bothered me that the "Christians" (regardless of how "new-born" they might be) were so intent and obsessed with assassinating the Antichrist, and that they believed they might be the ones God "honored" by using them to kill the global leader.
Of all of the "Left Behind" books, this has been the one that disappointed me the most - and also the one which had me grasping for the next book the most, thus earning a 3/5 rather than a 2/5 which I had been planning on giving it up until the last 50 pages or so.Where it failed: Some of the newer characters were so flat that they were hard to tell apart.
Mediocre at best as a work of "literary acclaim", but near-perfect as a device to keep the reader reaching for the next book in the series.I am anxious to start and finish the next one for sure.
In "Assassins" we find the various members of the Tribulation Force under attack & fighting for their lives in various parts of the world.
We also witness the arrival of the 6th Trumpet Judgement of 200 million demonic horsemen who wipe out a third of the world's population in addition to Rayford Steele's intended quest to assassinate Carpathia.
LaHaye & Jenkins do an excellent job with the paranoia factor of the people who still don't believe & that of the Antichrist (Carpathia) himself who is still convinced that these events can be explained away.
I am beginning to be disturbed by LaHaye's Christian fantasy world.
Most of the characters spend the whole book being angry and threatening violence again the leader of the Global Community, who is guilty of lying and manipulating people.
Most of the book he doesn't even appear, just delegates the work of government.
When he does appear, LaHaye glosses over huge sections with "a lot of people gave speeches"...
"and then an earthquake happened," while devoting entirely too many words to how much the Christians want to kill the anti-Christ.
The first book was good, but this is the worst one I've read so far.
Ah Book #6! I didn't think I'd make it this far, but given the way this book ended I will be sure to read number 7. I have found myself skimming over more pages now. There are a lot of 'sermons' and also scripture that I tend to skim over. It is just too much for the story. Either way, I liked the book.
The full name of Tim LaHaye's sixth venture into forcing Jerry B. Jenkins to ghost-write his cash cow for him? "Assassins: Assignment: Jerusalem, Target: Antichrist". Man. This book could rival Lara Croft: Tomb Raider: The Cradle of Life in terms of excessive colons.Marked this book as read because I'm sure I've read it sometime.
Okay, this story needs to wrap it up already. It was interesting reading about the "pale horses of death", but I'm starting to feel like this is being dragged out too much. I'm only on book 6 and there are 6 more books in the series!? Just let Jesus come back already, sheesh! But the series hasn't totally lost me yet, so I'll keep on going.
Quite a cliffhanger, suspenseful!
It is a fictional book, listed as #6 in the series, that is based on true end of times events following the start of the Tribulation as referenced in the Bible's book of Revelations.
In this book you have a core group of characters which have been well developed throughout the series and who have become integral players in the constant battle of good vs evil.
I did shelve those books on and off until I got through them, but once you get into the third and fourth books it becomes very enjoyable and worth the read.Violence: Characters are in constant battle.
I was very seriously considering a brief break from the series and might still follow through.
I simply must know what will happen next.
Rayford Steele is getting on my last nerve.
I seriously wanted him to pass.
I hate to rant but I'm also quite annoyed with Leah getting offended.
There was a happening that really touched me.
Let others mock you, you have God on your side and that makes you the victor in the battle of good and evil.
Although this was probably my least favorite of the Left Behind books, I have not given up yet.
Maybe it's just me but as the series goes on, I find myself losing focus.
I am still enjoying the series because I am new to religion and have never heard the stories and did not grow up going to church.
Sometimes I find myself looking things up on google once I have finished a book, just because I found the concept to be so interesting.
One thing I did not like about this particular book was Rayford's newfound rage.
I am going to finish the series but I am hoping that my interest doesn't keep fading.
This book felt like more of a filler that didn't really have a climax (until the very end, which seems to be a recurring theme for this series).
So far none of the books in the series have really capitalized on the climax/high point/most exciting portion of the book.
There seems to be a never-ending gradual build-up that never actually builds up.
This book in the series continues to support that storyline, with only the individual actions of the different characters showing any kind of variation.
There is beginning to be a feeling of unreality to these books but it’s hard to fictionalize what you don’t know will happen.
It’s starting to feel a little bit like a Robert Ludlum spying oval in the 80s only transferred to the 90s.
The theology is getting a little preachy but I am the choir so you don’t have to convince me.
My goal is to finish three more this week and I think the weather will cooperate since it has certainly turned cold except I would’ve stayed inside with the air conditioner on it required not that I don’t do that anyway.
Nothing new in that, since the last few entries have held back on the titular catastrophe until the final third, however the twist this time is that the reader has no clue as to who the assassin will be - and End of Days whodunnit?!.
Where Assassins fails to deliver is with the set-pieces, usually well crafted and exciting, they feel flat due to the changes in the central characters and the two-dimensional peripheral cast.
The endgame is squeezed in at the end with too much redundant narrative to get there.
It's a necessary chapter, however Assassins just feels too padded out.
Starting this review is well, easy to say the least.
I started reading the first book in this wonderful series just as soon as I heard about them.
Being from a christian home life growing up and as well as my husband and family this was a no brainier.
I am going to do one review including the whole series.
From the first page of the first book to the last page in the last book, I was not able to put these books down.
This series, although some would call fictional, I believe are very close to what will:To read more of my review: https://breathoflifebookreviews.blogs...
This series has me utterly captivated, despite knowing how the book of revelations ends (As do all the characters in the book who follow Christ.
I'll spare you the plot , but suffice it to stay "Left Behind" begins with the disappearance of millions of people around the globe as The Bible's book of revelations begins it's literal assent towards the second coming of Jesus.
It's an amazing series if you enjoy the thought of what if A: Revelations is completely literal and B: you were alive to live through Armageddon.
The book is called assassins for a very good, and very entertaining reason...
The series continues on as the Tribulation Force works undercover in their battle against the regime of the anti-Christ. This book was generally slower than the previous one's but sets the bridge, I would assume, for the next phrase of the unfolding of their presentation of the tribulation period, into the "Great Tribulation." Potential readers must remember that this is a fictional presentation of what the tribulation (from a pre-millennial perspective of Eschatology) might look like based upon modern technology.
This series just keeps getting better and better with each book! I cannot WAIT to get my hands on the next one. My questions lie mostly what will happy with Chloe and baby Kenny with Buck getting antsy and going back to the journalist lifestyle while Rayford seems to be out for revenge. And what's the story with Hattie? She seems so brainless to me, but there has to be more than what meets the eye there. I guess we'll see!
I love this series. It is enthralling and well written. On the one hand it is written rather simplistically but on the other hand the subject matter (the Book of Revelation!) is dense and very difficult to grasp or understand, so I appreciate being taught as I go.
