https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/453960.In_the_Ocean_of_Night
Benford works with a fascinating concept here.In the Ocean of Night was first published in episodic format, before the pieces were cobbled together to form this first novel in the Galactic Centre series.
It’s a good novel too.
Things pick up after that, though, and Benford is a very good writer.
There is also the question of the Chicken and the Egg...Heavy on philosophy and science, In the Ocean of Night also touches on some themes that are reminiscent of 2001: A Space Odyssey.
I must preface this review with the fact I’m an emotional void in true life and books … getting involved in relationships real and written should be avoided at all costs.
The intro mentioned all the SciFi I was looking for, derelict ship, first contact and the fact the aliens want to wipe us out … Plus it has won prestigious awards … not a single mention of a single mung bean … Great I think!
Imagine my surprise when a third way through the book I’ve already had to literally skip most of the chapters since they involve personal relationship and god rubbish that for the life of me I cannot see being relevant to a hard scifi book ..
Started off strong with asteroids and mysterious aliens, but then, near the end... Big-foot. I'm not even kidding. Big-foot.50% Intriguing science fiction25% Inter-personal relationships that are at least mildly interesting20% Lame social and religious blah blah 4% Random digressions into poetry (yeah, I don't quite get that) 1% Big-foot... No, seriously!
Todo indica que el cometa Ícaro impactará con la Tierra próximamente.
El astronauta Nigel Walmsley se dirige a investigar el cometa e intentar volarlo con cargas explosivas.
Pero pronto se lleva una sorpresa que cambiará la manera de afrontar la misión: Ícaro no es un cometa, sino una nave.
‘En el océano de la noche’ (In the Ocean Night, 1977), de Gregory Benford, es la primera novela de llamado Ciclo del Centro Galáctico, formado por seis títulos.
El arranque es francamente bueno, pero ese sentido de la maravilla se va perdiendo a lo largo de la historia, ya que se centra demasiado en los problemas personales de Nigel.
An OK read, difficult to become invested in the characters.
loved the lifting sweep as a misty dust of snow sprang up beneath the machine like chiming crystals attempting to fly anew—farewell—this unflagging energy of the mind he loved the most as each sense in turn made a fresh grab at the greased pig which was the world even as he waves upward at the veiled white faces receding,a good representation of the incoherence ,that is this book
Benford wrote what is clearly a ‘hard’ science fiction book, and those tend to age poorly, but what this had going for it that so many others do not, is a hauntingly beautiful story.The final part, where some of the mysteries presented early in the novel are explained, the story drags a bit.
This is a 40 year old book that looks at humanity dealing with the night sky full of sentient machines, and a history of violence written all over the galaxy – and the solar system itself.Only read if you can sit and think about what’s being written.
Thank you Gregory, and thanks Andrew, for the introduction.I loved it, and can’t wait to read another of Benford’s books.
While there's some hope for him by the end of the novel, after reading his stream of consciousness babble, I can't help but think he's just going to be a different flavor of insufferable, self-absorbed, patronizing jerk going forward.So is there anything good here?
Now I probably shouldn't be so critical of a book that was written over 40 years ago and was one of Benford's first works, but this was a book that was nominated for both the Nebula and Locus awards.
How can Benford do that to her?Maybe, this book probably would've been easier to deal with reading it right after it was finished, trapped in the 70s, but by 1980 this book's days were numbered.
Don't stop here!This initial book of the series is the weakest in the series, but it should not discourage you from continuing with the series which is quickly becoming my one of favorites. There are some that suggest you skip this first novel and jump right to volume 2. The completionist in me could never allow me to do that but looking back, I think it's a totally viable option. If you can suffer through it, you will see that Benford does begin setting the stage for a story of a much larger story that will unfold in later tales.
white british dude whose only personality trait is getting irrationally angry at complete strangers about religion goes from being in a polyamorous relationship with two women to getting a petite Japanese manic pixie dream girl to fall in love with him via impressing her with weed? and being incredibly patronizing towards her. (and of course those three women are the only ones in the entire novel) plus the occasional misogynistic introspection from the pretentious white british dude. the scifi stuff is okay, standard machines vs organics stuff, ending made 0 sense.
That conflict could become even more intense, especially if the machine side is ultimately represented, as this book postulates, by "things" whose origins (not hinted at explicitly in the present work) aren't of this planet.The question in all this that's often not addressed is why a conflict should exist at all.
It drops hints at a different possibility: Perhaps these intelligent machines view any form of biological life as a malignancy that threatens the peace and tranquility of the entire galaxy.There is a plausible argument for this point of view.
In all three of these books, if the protagonist notices a woman, then you can know without a shadow of doubt he will have sex with her.
It's the obnoxious arrogance of the Omnicompetent Man. No matter what happens, the protagonists in these books always have to be the smartest person in the room.
Which is bizarre because the main character becomes some kind of a weird spiritualist at the end, but whatever.)I'm tempted to go into psychoanalysis of what it would take to write prose like this, but I won't.
This book, like the others I've mentioned, just reeks of smugness and arrogance.So why three stars instead of 2?
This is basically a first contact story with a fair amount of soft sf content, including religious fanatics, sexual experimentation, and some attempts at prose poetry.
None of this "experimental" material is so poorly carried off that it damages the work; in fact it would not be nearly as good without it.
Many reviewers have expressed dislike for the sexual content in the novel; I would defend it as being consistent with other sf of the time, and ultimately not damaging to the narrative.
The result is a great improvement over the Cambellian hard SF of previous years; with Benford I feel like I got good science speculation without the embarrassment of poor SF writing.
My favourite thing about this book has got to be Nigel Walmsley.
He's probably one of my favourite characters in fiction, ever.
The storyline of this book is a very interesting one and I enjoyed the other characters too: Mr Ichino and Nikka are fun, and I was surprised at the emotional depth that was involved with Alexandria's storyline.
Learning about the Snark was fascinating, and I really enjoyed the scenes with it.Every scene that involves Nigel coming in contact with someone of the New Suns is pure gold.I'll definitely be checking out the rest of the series.
Dreary, mysoginistic crap. Combining all the very worst aspects of Clarke, Asimov, and Heinlein, with nothing that made any of those three any good.I thought Heart of the Comet was pretty bland when I read it way back when, but this set impressive new lows.Back to the second hand bookshop with you, book, and I'm not even bothering to crack open the sequel.
A series of episodes dealing with man's first contact and one man's struggle against those elements of humanity who would sooner destroy or supress aliens than welcome or attempt to learn from them.However, the aliens turn out to be quite different than he expected and subject to as much fear and petty mindedness as humans are.
The first in a series, have to reread this to see if the series is worth getting into.
3.5 stars.A flawed, but interesting novel.
With the biggest flaw being Benford's apparent belief that great things happen because of one great man, and the ultimate challenge being management, which is inherently as evil as it is incompetent.
Enter Nigel Walmsley, who through clumsy plotting is always right and gets to save the day despite management's best efforts.
The interesting part is Benford's take on the Fermi Paradox.
Now "we don't see other civilizations because something kills off everyone stupid enough to announce themselves" is pretty much the default in sci-fi, but this is the first example I've encountered from the 70s.

I still think about this book. Dr. Benford is the author of my favorite poem of all time, "Blood on Glass," and I am a poet. I want it to be read at my funeral. I also respect and admire the scientific, if dystopic, branch of his work best expressed in Deep Time, so I am predisposed to like him. That said, I applaud his three-dimensional, spiritually challenged characters, the sentience of his landscapes, his erudite exposition, and his compelling narrative. My advice? Read Dr. Benford's work whenever you can.
It was okay. The third act got a little strange and the ending was mysterious. Some interesting ideas, good character development.As for the series, I'm skeptical of the whole machines-fighting-people idea. If machines have enough intelligence to build themselves, then they probably have enough to rapidly self-evolve until their powers become godlike and any fight with us would be hopelessly in their favor.
Too big, too much, too weird. The aliens are cool but the humans are borderline insufferable. Did I mention the story is too big? The universe is HUGE but somehow Earth and humans fall at the center of it and the whole series just drags on and on. Interesting idea but poorly executed.
Ik weet niet goed wat ik er van moet denken. Benford is een meester in beschrijvingen, maar hier ook duidelijk in het laten voortvloeien van het verhaal. Maar het is toch wat rommelig, en het einde van het boek laat teveel zaken open. Toch vier sterren, want graag wil ik het vervolg lezen.
Good story, but I felt the pace was a bit slow at times (especially in the beginning).
When this fails, the ship leaves, but the wreckage of another ship is then discovered on the Moon and once more Nigel is recruited to help investigate its secrets.It’s not clear why Benford chose to make his hero British, and ‘Nigel Walmsley’ reminds me of one of A Bertram Chandler’s Rim novels in which the hero is called ‘Derek’.
It’s a small quibble, but one would have thought that at the time of writing, and certainly when the book was being revised for republication, that Benford would have asked someone British to read through it and check the dialogue for authenticity.On a more positive side, this is one of Benford’s best novels.
Into one third of the story I started to suspect that the original book is older than my daughter, and later my suspicion was confirmed by mention of microfilms used in 2034.
The story, however, started well, right into hard science fiction, astronauts discovering an alien artificial asteroid.
But then jump again, and now I was discovering the alien ship's computer.
It was an alien ship, for god's sake!And then came Mr Itchino (I hope I spell it right after hearing), who went to play being a hermit in the woods on the hillside.
It's as painful to read as it's fun to write, judging from my own experience.) Anyway, our protagonist, a rebellious British astronaut-superscientist called Nigel Walmsley is 'possessed' by alien entities on two separate occasions, and it is only during those periods that the ideas advance.
I think the poor writing is the primary reason I didn't like this book, despite the ideas.The characters, despite the heavy amount of development, have an element of Mary Sue-esque author-fantasy-insertion to them that leaves a sour taste.
(Walmsley's crusty rebelliousness didn't help either.)In summary, poor writing, poor characters, poor story development, but there're still some great ideas in this book that push it to two stars.
By the end of the book, it's starting to feel a lot like the latter.
(The kind of funny thing about the religion-takes-over paranoia that certain writers cherish is that they it universally misses the religion that the writer himself subscribes to while denying that it's a religion.)The epilogue is particularly hard to read but I give Benford points for using a poetic, almost stream-of-consciousness style, while rejecting the notion that it reflects enlightenment very well, to say nothing rejecting of the entire premise of the book.
C’est assez dommage, puisque ces luttes d’influence sont somme toute stériles, et n’influent jamais sur la volonté hors du commun du héros qui ne suit que son instinct.
C’est, peut-être, dû aux formations des auteurs, mais ça n’en est pas moins une grave faute contre le lecteur qui trouvera au mieux l’histoire desservie par des auteurs maladroits.
C’en est d’autant plus dommage qu’il s’agit du premier tome du centre galactique, et que ce tome offre des ouvertures intéressantes, qui seront développées avec peut-être plus de justesse dans, par exemple, La grand rivière du ciel, ou le conflit entre les hommes et les machines, ce dont l’auteur parle ici de l’accès au monde des essences.
“A splendid, brilliant, overwhelming book. I wish I had written it. Best s-f novel I have read in years.” --- Robert Silverberg It has been awhile since I ventured into the territory of sci-fi. The wait was worth it, as I have inadvertently stumbled on a truly great, hard science fiction writer. As both a physicist and a poet, Benford combines his delivery of the conventions of sci-fi with the prose of lyricism. “Perspective defies the innate order. The handiwork of man blinds even this awesome
Best s-f novel I have read in years.” --- Robert Silverberg	It has been awhile since I ventured into the territory of sci-fi.
A satisfying read for those of the hard sci-fi bend that also like some introspection.
“He stared down at the cinder world that had betrayed his hopes by being so substantial, so deadly.”	“…his sentences paraded out to display a new facet of lock jawed Latinisms, words converging like a pack of erudite wolves to devour some snippet of causation …”	“He had a sudden perception of death: a small thing moving in from the distance, winging slowly in the night air as she slept.
