https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16372.The_Mirror_Crack_d_from_Side_to_Side
Their is a new vicar and Miss Bantry has sold the prominent Gossington Hall to movie star Marina Gregg and her husband Jason Rudd.
In this case Agatha Christie addresses ageism is she has the housekeeper treating Miss Marple like a feeble invalid even should she remains sound in body and mind.
Marina Gregg's story is ripped from the headlines as she represents a prominent Hollywood star who has been married five times and seeks life in a small village like St Mary Mead to settle down.
It is always a treat to read Agatha Christie, and A Mirror Crack'd From Side to Side ended up being an enjoyable 3.75 stars.
Mrs Badcock tells her a long story about when she met the movie actress, Marine Gregg, who is now living at Gossington Hall.
She tells this story again some days later to Miss Gregg herself at another fete, this time at Gossington Hall.
Mrs Bantry is quick to inform Miss Marple, telling her that, while she unfolded her story, Marina Gregg looked frozen in shock – much like the Lady of Shalott…It is obvious that Miss Marple needs an interest and so she is keen to learn all she can about the murder; even going as far as gathering up an armful of gossipy film magazines from the hairdresser.
Well, there I was all happy that I had all the Agatha Christie books, courtesy of my mother, so participating in the Miss Marple Challenge was going to be fun.
Then we got to July and all of sudden I found my mother didn't actually leave me all the Agatha Christie books, so I had to go hunting for the matching volumes i was missing (4 missing out of 39 I think).
Its great to see the re-appearance of Mrs Bantry and to know that Miss Marple (I had to revert to her full title, slapped wrists for being too casual) is still going strong.
احدى المدعوات الى حفل خيري تموت فجأة عن طريق التسمم من قتلها في هذا الحشد الكبير .بعد التحقيقات يتبين انها ليست المقصودة بل واعية الحفل ممثلة شابة.لغز مثير ومشوق والسيدة العجوز مَس ماربل استطاعت ان تحلل القضية بطريقة تحليلية رائعةاستمتعت
This is a classic Christie mystery told firmly in her inimitable style with a most interesting true to life motive for murder.
This story was related to Ms. Christie in some fashion regarding the then film actress Gene Tierney of “Laura” and “The Ghost and Mrs. Muir” fame.
Shortly after her appearance, Ms. Tierney contracted Rubella and as a result her daughter Daria was born prematurely with severe mental retardation and birth defects.
In her own words, “I just silently looked at her and then walked away” “After that I didn't care whether ever again I was anyone's favorite actress." It was from this moment that Ms. Tierney’s mental spiral downward began.
“Do you remember the Lady of Shalott?
The mirror crack’d from side to side: ‘The doom has come upon me,’ cried the Lady of Shalott.
Well, that’s what she looked like.I very much enjoyed re-reading this Christie mystery, not for the murder as such - the identity of the culprit and reason branded in my mind - which was very well crafted, but for Miss Marple’s growing loss of patience with her situation.
I’d be crawling up the wall like Miss Marple, but it was a surprise to see her dealing with it, and yes, funny, which was very much needed since this is a rather sad story.
I really thought I had this one figured out.  It begins to look like a famous actress has a murderer after her. Luckily the main detective on the case has this sweet little old aunt who is really nosy.  Miss Marple finds clues no one else does and has a line of gossipy friends. Gotta love Agatha Christie!
The older residents of St Mary Mead―Miss Marple among them―try to come to terms with and adapt to the changes, thankful for what is left of the old life.
This was a Marple book I hadn’t read before but I had seen an adaptation (with Elizabeth Taylor) long ago so did remember whodunit.
But still, the puzzle is once again complicated though an element of it is similar to what one has seen in AC’s books (at least two others, with Miss Marple in one of them).
But nothing can mislead Miss Marple for long, for though she may be older and frailer, her mind is as sharp as ever.
I've never really loved Miss Marple, but lately, I have to admit, she has surprised me time and again. Truth be told, in the case of The Mirror Crack'd I may be a little biased because I guessed both murderer and motive, and that never happens to me, but I genuinely enjoyed this investigation and this case. Wholeheartedly recommended!
When Heather Badcock (one of the development residents) winds up dead at the party hosted by film actress Marina Gregg, at Gossington Hall, Miss Marple knows this is the best medicine for her to jolt her out of a dull lull.Another home run by Christie!
Marina Gregg, a noted film actress, has moved into Gossington Hall and is throwing a party in it.
Heather Badcock dies suddenly after drinking a cocktail handed to her by Marina Gregg herself.
Add to that, the poison from which Heather died is widely available at the home of Miss Gregg.
I read this one a few years back, so it was nice to revisit it since I had the book on my shelf.We have Miss Marple dealing with the changing of the village of St. Mary Mead after World War II.
It's not explicitly said, but based on some of the descriptions of people's clothing choices and other things, I imagine it had to be the 1950s or 1960s when this was supposed to take place.Miss Marple is feeling a bit frustrated, because after an illness, she is dealing with having a nurse hovering over her all of the time, and she is definitely feeling her age.
Out flew the web and floated wide;The mirror crack'd from side to side:"The curse is upon me!" CriedThe Lady of Shallot. Another classic of typical Christie misdirection. During a party hosted by the famous actress Marina Gregg, her rather silly fan Heather Babcock is killed through a poisoned drink - but it soon comes out that that drink was meant for the actress herself. That, coupled with the actress's horrified expression as she stared at something over Heather's shoulder as she prattled (p
That, coupled with the actress's horrified expression as she stared at something over Heather's shoulder as she prattled (presumably, because she saw someone who frightened her - she is unwilling to talk about it) set the police on a hunt to track a killer, who would presumably try to strike again.However, a chance statement by one of the characters provides Miss Marple with a clue to a totally unexpected solution.This should have been four stars, but it contained too many murders for my liking and (yet again) I semi-guessed the solution.
Another nicely convoluted story line which has you guessing to the end.Although I do enjoy Miss Marple, I think Poirot is still my favourite Christie detective. Often Miss Marple is on the sidelines and not directly into the story the way that Poirot is so may that is part of it? Still, so interesting that Christie would create an amateur detective like Marple. Very unique.
Not as underwhelming as Postern of Fate (that is the AC book I found the worst), but - AND I REALLY HATE TO SAY THIS ABOUT AN AGATHA CHRISTIE BOOK- still boring, dragging and most of the time pointless. YAWN.
أغاثا كريستي دائما تبهرني بنهاياتها الغير متوقعة ,,,, رائعة :)
3.5*While I find the way Miss Marple deals with her increased age more relevant now that my parents are in their late 80s, I still don't really like this one. Emilia Fox does a good narration (though I found her American accents didn't sound like any American I know!); too bad I couldn't find an audiobook edition narrated by Joan Hickson!
The American actress has taken the old Bantry house on rent and is trying to make a go of it in English village life with the party.Thus Mrs. Bantry is invited to the party and sees Heather Badcock dying.
Marple get involved and is able to solve the mystery merely by reading the film magazines.
The village has changed beyond recognition in the post-war years and it is one of Miss Marple's challenges to overcome these changes and understand the human nature behind them.
The daily quibbles of village life, which make these Marples so intriguing are there in full flow in this book too.
The Mirror Crack’d from Side to Side is the third and final Agatha Christie book that I picked up last year during a couple of big book sales I went to, the others being Murder in Retrospect and Passenger to Frankfurt.
I can honestly say I’ve never read any other mystery writer, current or otherwise, that has the skill to do this as much as Christie had.The characters are strong as ever, with Miss Marple being the star as I’m sure is per usual in her mystery companion books.
Bellissimo giallo della Christie con l’adorabile Miss Marple alle prese con… lo scorrere del tempo: 
Audiobook performed by Emilia Fox.3.5***Miss Marple is showing her age and the doctor insists that she have a nursemaid/companion.
When a local woman is dies during a large charity event at an estate now owned by Hollywood actress Marina Gregg and her latest husband (is he # 4 or # 5?) authorities discover that the cocktail she drank was doctored.
It appears this was a terrible accident, but that the lethal dose was meant for Marina Gregg.
I also really enjoyed the subplot of Miss Marple’s need for a companion.
Emilia Fox did a superb job narrating the audiobook.
What can i say about this book? I loved it from the begining to the end. I had seen the movie with Elizabeth Taylor a few years ago and i could not remember much, except i knew right from the start who the murderer was but it didn't bother me at all. I also consider this book the best case of Miss Marple. Agatha Christie has never let me down so far. Love all her books!!!
Miss Marple è una vecchietta deliziosa, e tutto ciò che fa di contorno al romanzo non è pesante come in altri casi, ma molto azzeccato.
Anche i personaggi secondari sono ben delineati, come la signorina Knight che, pur essendo definita una brava donna, viene mal sopportata dalla vecchietta (e dalle interazioni questo emerge chiaramente).Il mistero è interessante quanto basta ed un classico caso in cui ci focalizza sul dettaglio sbagliato!
Ottimo giallo!(view spoiler)[ In particolare ci si focalizza su cosa abbia vistoMarina Gregg: la sua espressione è davver sconvolta, o agghiacciata, e rivolta verso gli ospiti che salivano le scale (o piuttosto al quadro di una Madonna del Bellini, appeso alla parete?).
I didn't remember reading this until about chapter 2 - when I clearly remembered the killer and the motive - before a murder even happened. It was kind of fun reading it from that side - I do love Agatha Christie.
Todo parece indicar que en realidad el intento de asesinato tenía como objetivo a la misma Marina, la actriz.Este libro no sigue la estructura de los otros que he leído, en los que suele haber relatos de todos los involucrados, sino que sigue una línea continua.
Pero con los libros de Agatha eso es imposible de hacer.Quizá no es el mejor que he leído de ella, pero sigue siendo sorprendente, con personajes entrañables y un misterio que no importa cuantas vueltas le des no eres capaz de descubrir (quizá fui yo la lenta, porque por lo general tenía sueño al leerlo).
And the cleaner, Cherry, is nice and provides a valuable clue.Miss Marple's friend Mrs. Bantry has sold Gossington Hall and it eventually lands in the hands of a movie star and her director husband.
They hold a big fete for the ambulance service and specifically invite Mrs. Bantry to come to the reception.
She has a story about how she got out of a sickbed which she goes on about, both with Miss Marple (when she fell down in front of the woman's house) and with the movie star.
Right after telling the movie star about her story she falls dead.
I read an article a while ago about an analysis of the words used in Agatha Christie's novels and how you can actually see her dementia showing itself in her later works based on the complexity (and lack thereof) of language.
I couldn't stop thinking about that while reading this novel--partly because there is a picture of a very fabulous but also very ancient Agatha on the back cover, but moreso because Miss Marple herself grappling with her old age.
I wonder if that wasn't also one of Christie's own coping mechanisms as her memory began to fail her as she grew older.Oh, the mystery is pretty good too.
Three Agatha Christie books within the same month.
Good one Fred.
I just love her and once I start, I cannot tear myself away.
In terms of favourite authors, she is at least in the Top Two!Last year, And Then There Were None was my most recent Christie interest.
This, Lord Edgware Dies, and Murder on the Orient Express have now formed their places in my Top 3 Christie Books.
Words cannot express how phenomenal these novels are.The Mirror Crack’d From Side To Side is a masterpiece, to say the least.
Any Agatha Christie fans would love it to pieces.
The Lady of Shalott - Alfred Lord TennysonMarina Gregg, the famous film star, has brought some much needed glamour to St. Mary Mead.
Which other characters from the Mary Mead cast will perish before the credits roll?
شابک: 9789643636487هنرپیشه محبوب و زیبا «مارینا کرگ»، به همراهی همسرش «جیسون راد»، زمین­های «گوسینگتون هال» را خریداری می­کنند.
در زمین­های آن­ها جشنی برگزار می­شود برای گردآوری پول، جهت سازمان «سنت جان»، بیشتر اهالی، از جمله «هدرکوک»، در جشن شرکت می­کنند.
او در جشن مسموم می­شود و دوشیزه مارپل سرنخ­هایی دارد...
مأساة ..وكم كبير من القتلى في هذه الرواية..جريمة تقع في قصر السيدة بانتري السابق وهي صديقة السيدة ماربل (إذا تذكرون وقعت أحداث رواية جثة في المكتبة في ذلك القصر )حيث وصلت ممثلة شهيرة تدعى مارينا ..وزوجها وحاشيتها الكبيرة ..وخلال حفل خيري يقام في القصر .. تقتل السيدة بادكوك ..وهي سيدة لطيفة وثرثارة يبدو أن هناك ماضيا يربطها بالممثلة مارينا غريغ .. وتتوالي الأحداث لتحلها لنا في النهاية السيدة ماربل ..*كنت متوقعة النهاية ربما لم أحل كل أوجه الجريمة ولكن لب الموضوع خطر ببالي ..مملة قليلا ..ربما لأن السيدة ماربل لم تخرج كثيرا من منزلها بسبب تقدم عمرها ..
A good crime/mystery novel. I had plenty of theories and none was what happened at the end. I did guessed what happened though, at the same time that "Miss Marple" our protagonist did, and I wish that I didn't until she explains it, that would have made the "mystery solved" feeling even better.*Full review to come*
