https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/105744.Meg
3.5 *If you see her glow, it's too late* stars Duunnn dunnn... duuuunnnn duun... duuunnnnnnnn dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dunnnnnnnnnnn dunnnn.As you all know by now, I love sharks.  I love everything related to sharks. Watching shark movies is my guilty pleasure. Deep Blue Sea, The Reef, Open Water, 47 Meters Down, Jaws 2… But there's one more that stands above the rest. Yes, you've guessed it. Jaws, the granddaddy of them all.  I even watched Sharknado. I watched it and found it de
duuunnnnnnnn dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dunnnnnnnnnnn dunnnn.As you all know by now, I love sharks.
Watching shark movies is my guilty pleasure.
Deep Blue Sea, The Reef, Open Water, 47 Meters Down, Jaws 2… But there's one more that stands above the rest.
Professor and U.S Navy deep sea diver Jonas Taylor believes that the Megalodon is still alive and thriving in the Mariana Trench.
Meg rises from the depths of the Mariana Trench, and goes full Jaws on unsuspecting beachgoers.
I'm not here for the human drama, I just want some shark action dammit!
I'll leave you with this- be kind to sharks.
I have the updated version and after hearing of some differences, I'm glad.Anyway, this is the story of Jonas Taylor, a dishonorably discharged Navy commander specialized in deep dives, who has believed in the existence of megalodons (basically huge, pre-historic versions of the Great White) ever since that fateful dive a few years ago when two scientists diving with him got killed.
:DKnow that feeling when reading a book or watching a movie and sitting at the edge of your seat, full of suspense about whether or not the hero is gonna be able to save the day?
I had some high hopes for Meg. I love a good action/thriller that could be described as a get away from complex literature – i.e. a fun read.
of the Meg. But, after the 20th scene describing all the instincts in play and the thoughts going through the Meg’s head, I started to zone out.NO, NOT THAT MEG!The second issue kind of relates to the book losing my interest after a while.
And, it just expands upon a story from the main book that I am not sure needed expanding.In closing, it was kinda fun and if you like action/thriller getaway literature, give it a go.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/I had never even heard of Meg until I took my kids to see my boyfriend Jeff’s new movie, Jurassic Park 47, and this popped up in the preview .
.  Um, yes please.
I knew I had to get my hands on a copy.
And not just a borrowed copy – I needed to own this and add it to the shark stack.
Thanks to discoverbooks.com (no, I’m not affiliated, I’m just poor and this site enables me to add to my hoard on the cheap) I was able to obtain a co
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/I had never even heard of Meg until I took my kids to see my boyfriend Jeff’s new movie, Jurassic Park 47, and this popped up in the preview .
Thanks to discoverbooks.com (no, I’m not affiliated, I’m just poor and this site enables me to add to my hoard on the cheap) I was able to obtain a copy just in time for Shark Week.
I failed at posting a timely review because I’m now insane and post shitty book pics to Instagram (shameless plug for myself – get over it, I do what I do) and knew EXACTLY the right spot to take a photo worthy of this literary masterpiece.
This book/series deserves 529 stars!
Any book with a jacket blurb stating "I have just two words for you: JURASSIC SHARK!" deserves the Nobel Prize for first class airport literature.This is what pulpy, guilty-pleasure reading is all about.
You've got action, sex, and PREHISTORIC SHARKS!Dan Brown's book (I've only read one and that was too much) seriously insulted my intelligence - I recognized the Fibonacci numbers from a high school class - THAT I FLUNKED!
Steve Alten does not insult your intelligence.
You feel so much smarter after reading his novels.
"I pity the fool who don't like Jurassic Shark!"
Everything in me wanted to either rebel against reading this or just submit to the gleeful horror of a shark who's head is as big as a truck.Obviously, I had to submit.And you know what really caught me off-guard?The plausibility.
Yeah, a 65-foot albino shark from the deep trenches, or rather, the ongoing survival of the species, living in the depths, never needing to see sunlight...
Well, this is written well and fun, all horror, then adventure, and then pure action.
:) But you know what I like best about it?*spoiler alert*The story of Jonah inside the whale.
noooo spoilers!!!!
I could have done without some cliche characters like the hard-driven, ambitious, evil wife, but the scene with the shark pod was epic enough to make up for it.
Jonas was a main character strong enough to propel this shark-driven story forward - it opens with him lecturing about the legend of the monster, then he's forced to confront his worst fears and make them a new reality.The pacing is swift and this one is hard to put down.
Did I stay up way too late last night reading this terrible/ brilliant book?
It's got everything you need: 1) a misunderstood hero2) people you REALLY want to die a painful, bloody death3) a monstrously awesome monster shark I honestly don't read enough like this, it's practically self-care to take the time to do so.
It's silly and fun and swims that line between sublimely ridiculous and faintly plausible.
Plus, it's got a massive shark in it.
Why wouldn't you read it???Note to self: yes, it's all fun and games now, but what happens next time you swim in the sea?
OMG I don't know why I took so long to read this book.
5 million stars for being a fun and fast read, full of action, adrenaline and one pissed off megalodon.Our main character Jonas Taylor took a trip down the Marinas Trench 7 years ago and saw something that caused him to change his career path and become a world famous paleontologist.
Just from the title alone you know the book is about a Megalodon.
I thought I would never read that book and now I want to.
I read this book in about 16 hours.
I don't care if you judge me for giving 5 stars to this one. I absolutely enjoyed this, there is nothing I would like to change. There is correct chemistry between characters (that includes the Meg) and appropriate people are being killed and eaten. What's not to like?Update 6/9/2018-I watched the movie MEG last weekend and only thing to say is - such a disappointment! Book is 100% times better than movie. Not even Jason Statham can save it.
You'd think i'd get tired of reading this book after a billion times, but nope, still my favorite <3(reread again... still love it)Read it again for the billionth time... still the best.Has everyone seen the movie trailer yet??? So excited!!!
This was a re-read of a novel I originally read on holiday in Turkey back in 2000. Believe it or not, this has been on my 'to re-read' list for about three years now and it's a total coincidence that I finally got around to it on the week the movie adaptation was released in cinemas.Was I little generous with my original 5 star review? It's possible, but I'm not changing it now. I still had an absolute blast reading this 'b-movie-in-book-form' classic. What an ending! :-D
The book was very entertaining, so much better than I expected which is always a nice surprise.
But I do know that I LOVE monster movies with one of two things: crazy angry carnivores or unknown humongous cryptids.
And this time...it's a GIANT shark.
And I even like the shark.
I like Steve Alten's writing....he mixes a scientific feel with an action/monster plot very well.About the only complaint I have is a bit of an issue with the audio book narration.
Not sure what the exact problem is, but I have partial hearing loss so crisp, quality sound on audio books is essential for me.
And now that I've read the book....I can see the movie!
Nonstop action!Professor Jonas Taylor is a little obsessed with the idea that a prehistoric monster is lurking in the Mariana Trench.
The plot is well-thought-out and well-executed and written in a way that's easy to follow from one point to the next.
I enjoy how the author moved swiftly and steadily from one action point to the next and kept you on your toes throughout the entire book.
I also enjoyed the characters both sinister and heroic and thought they were well developed and even relatable.This book will definitely make a great film.
Check ☑Heck, while reading the book I couldn't help but be reminded of that magnum opus of creature features: Shark Attack 3: Megalodon.
And so when someone rides their jet ski into the shark's mouth you can forgive how silly it is and rejoice in the moment.Meg's greatest failing is, ironically, that it's not quite bad enough.
Seriously, if the whole book had been as awesome as a freaking T-rex hunting a pack of honest to goodness Shantungosaurus then it would've been a contender for three stars.
To the real story.Jonas Taylor, a deep-sea expert, ex-Navy submersible extraordinaire, and also the world's foremost expert on the extinct Megalodon, is called upon to inspect some sensors that have gone off the grid in the Mariana Trench.
But I will say that if you like every scene of carnage to include the words: entrails, teeth, entrails some more, some more teeth, and, yes, entrails again, then you'll love how creative Alten is with his descriptions.
STOP READING IF YOU DON'T WANT TO KNOW THE ENDING!!When the final battle scene takes place, Jonas finds himself in the belly of the beast.
A re-read after watching the movie. The book is far less campy than the movie and the science seems almost believable for sci-fi. A solid book
But keep in mind that even though the oceans cover 71% of our planet’s surface and contain 99% of its living space, 95% of it remains unexplored.That’s actually a very nice opportunity for an author to tell a convincing tale about a 42,000 pound shark with a garage-sized head terrorizing stupid people, not quite so stupid people and some poor whales as well.Paleontologist Jonas Taylor doesn’t believe in megalodon’s extinction.
And I’m convinced now that Alten can do better.This was a buddy read with my dear friend Trish, the world’s leading expert in horrendous deaths that actually make people laugh.
I first heard about The Meg when I saw a trailer for the forthcoming Statham movie.I honestly thought it was a Sharknado inspired Shark film.So I was really surprised to see the movie tie-in edition and instantly had to pick it up.This book certainly delivers on the big dumb cheesy monsterfest.
A believed extinct prehistoric Megalodon is terrorises anything that stands in its way...It’s was just the right side of enjoyable for me.
I wasn’t fully invested in all the characters and the way the book ended, I’m not too desperate to pick up the next instalment.That said I’m more interested in seeing the movie now, so I’m glad that I’d decided to read the book first.
I do enjoy a good shark story.
This is a decent, sometimes good, shark story.
It's the rest of it that drags this story down.
The story regarding the Meg is pretty decent and I wished the author had spent more time on the shark.
Instead we are treated to a low class soap opera of stupid people.
I might have given it a 1 star rating but the shark parts do save the story-the rest of the characters?
Could care less and they drag the story down into a bunch of banal tropes and enormous stupidity.
Card-board cut out characters do nothing for the story.

10 years later and I still love this book to pieces.
Cannot wait for the movie to premiere soon.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I think it's finally time that this gets added to my favorites shelf.
Me and my hubby started buddyreading this book during shark week for the past three years, and it seems like I love it more each read.
The writing isn't the best and there's a really cheesy scene towards the end, but I can overlook that.
And this is FINALLY becoming a movie thanks to the so sexy gore master, Eli Roth!
About fucking time!!
:DWhat could be better than a 60 foot shark?
I don’t even know how many times I’ve read this book and the rest of the series.
It’s one of my go to books when I want to just relax and enjoy the story.
Plus, I love anything sharks.
After years trying to prove he’s right and waking up screaming from freakish nightmares, Joans is compelled to once again brave the deep, and what happens next is worse than any nightmare he’s ever had.Oh yeah, I loved this book.
After reading books and seeing movies about Great White Sharks, I think they’re bad enough.
For something that could use a 20 footer as a toothpick to arrive in our waters is truly terrifying.Dive into MEG.
The MUST-HAVE edition!
I immediately sat down with the book and started reading, and being a writer and knowing something of the subject I soon became disappointed.Meg is about submersible pilot Jonas Taylor working out of the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute who is working on a Navy project diving into the Mariana Trench reputedly the deepest part of our oceans, in that dive Taylor thinks he sees a Megalodon and blows his tanks in an emergency ascent to the surface killing two researchers.
Carcharodon megalodon, the 70-foot, 70,000 pound prehistoric cousin of the Great White shark. Imagine a shark as big as two Greyhound buses, with a jaw wide enough to eat an African elephant in two gi-normous bites, and you have Meg.  Jonas whispered, “We should have left you alone.” SHARKS! Bring the fucking terror!So, I went to see the MEG a few weeks or months or whenever it was out. Sometime between July and now. I know I could easily google, but I'm not going to. Sue me.And it was pretty g
So I figured the book would likely be pretty good too.I WAS WRONG!This is better!Yes there was giant sharkalicious fun, but there was a surprising plausibility to it all.
And the writing was good, it completely knew when to wait and give the characters time to shine, and when to bring on a prehistoric 60ft albino shark.I also loved when the book would get all sciency and nerdy about nature.
I want David Attenborough to narrate my life.So Meg brings the terror and fun and blood and science(?) - disclaimer: I don't know science.
Not a sentence I want to read in an action novella/novel that precedes a blockbuster movie.
The scientific info dumps read as if they had been copied straight out of Wikipedia and didn‘t flow well with the narrative.The novel actually got better or maybe I got used to the style.
The only women not looking like Hollywood stars were prostitutes.
The right kind of stuff for a lazy day out on the balcony with something cold to drink.I watched the trailer of the upcoming movie and I think it will be quite different in some parts.
I agree with every single review I've read about this book.
Wooden characters, cheap motivations, ridiculous set ups so people can be eaten by the shark, ridiculous climax, but the book was fantastic - in the same way SyFy's recent movie Mongollion Death Worms was fantastic: it has no pretenses that it is anything other than what it is.
If this sounds good to you then you'll probably like this book and if not then you'd better avoid it.I've even already bought the sequel in which I've found a major fault without even reading the first page: its too long.
What's not to love about a giant great white shark??? MEG is a very engaging and fun adventure offering from Alten.
