https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/646118.A_Summer_Bird_Cage
Both have just recently left "Ox" as they call it and have launched themselves into life - trying to work out where they belong, what options are open to them and both more or less fearful of the narrow paths of marriage and babies.This story isn't really about plot - the ending is rather weak and not completely believable, but I certainly sympathise with both sisters; they need to make a living and as educated young women with worthy degrees, they want to use their intelligence and skills.
C'mon girls! Do you believe in love? Cos Margaret's got something to say about it. And it goes something like this......don't marry heartless homosexual sadists for their money. Marry warm heterosexual actors who are kind to children. (Also, be less of a bitch to your sister).That's about it.http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GsVcUz...
I have such a sister.Another theme in novels by women published in 1962 is a growing awareness of a woman's place in society and in marriage, which would eventually become the Feminist movement, although that question has come up sporadically in novels I have read from earlier years.Examples: The Golden Notebook by Doris Lessing, Love and Friendship by Alison Lurie, An Unofficial Rose by Iris Murdoch.A Summer Bird-Cage falls into both categories.
Dopo la delusione della Piena, speravo di poter rivalutare mrs Drabble. Invece l’annoiata lettura di questo racconto sciapo sulla rivalità tra due sorelle, ha risvegliato in me il desiderio di tornare a leggere la talentuosa Byatt.Pare che le celebri sorelle non leggano mai i rispettivi libri. E hanno ragione: la distanza è siderale.Addio, mrs Drabble.
Louise is three years older than Sarah, who estimates that her sister is thus also three inches taller than herself.
In matters of the heart, the immediate is always more likely to stir the emotions.Throughout A Summer Bird-Cage the two sisters interact and we hear Sarah’s version of the envy, the bitchiness, the conflict, the resolution, the co-operation, the closeness and distance of their relationship.
“By the way,” the reader might ask her, “did you really feel such resentment at everything your sister…” And no doubt Sarah would reply at length and in detail.In A Summer Bird-Cage the encounters are real.
Two middle-class sisters, Sarah and Louise, three years apart, in the early '60s after graduating ("coming down") from Oxford, are finding their ways in the world.
She's an intelligent, wry, bookish, romantic girl who's always taken second place to the more beautiful Louise.
Louise marries a rich, boring, successful author, brings Sarah home from Paris to England for the wedding.
Sarah remains in London trying to find her place in the world of the employed vs.
the married-with-children friends from school.
That's what we find out in Margaret Drabble's beautiful, revealing prose.
My mother used to have shelves of Margaret Drabble.
Drabble knows how to write about the complexity of sisterly love. You don't always like the people you love.So much truth, so much wit.
In the novel, the protagonist Sarah returns home from aimlessly teaching English in Paris to attend her beautiful, talented sister Louise’s wedding to a boring but wealthy novelist, Stephen.
Sarah feels out of her depth and liberated when she finally leaves the pretentious party.On the way home, Sarah is accosted by Stephen’s friend, Wilfred, and has a snarky conversation about Louise, where she points out her own first-class degree in literature while ostensibly defending her sister’s supposedly respectable second in PPE and calls her, “nothing but a novelist’s wife.” Wilfred points out Louise’s affair with John and explains his concerns for Stephen, whom he claims has stopped writing and describes as a clinical neurotic.
I read this on the back of Drabble's reputation and the fact I love A S Byatt's work.
Drabble's novel was also clearly an exploration of the dichotomous adversarial relationship she has with her own sister and it's not hard to see why the two are reputed not to get along all that well.
I'll try another Drabble novel as this was merely the slimmest of books and clearly shows the teething marks of a freshly hatched writer ...
mi è difficile commentare questo libro sapendo che l'autrice e la sorella (che poi è una delle mie autrici preferite, Antonia S.
Byatt) sono in faida da circa mezzo secolo.
E questo è un romanzo - tra le altre cose - su un complesso rapporto tra sorelle.
È impossibile non pensare che ci sia dell'ispirazione autobiografica dietro questo libro...
È un romanzo ben scritto e molto realistico nel descrivere le donne, mi ha ricordato alcuni romanzi della Atwood, ma con una patina un poco più polverosa.
Non male (ma la Byatt, nei suoi romanzi riusciti, mi piace immensamente di più).
As the reader Kalika says, i like that "there is a bleak pessimism towards marriage, domesticity, child-bearing, even love that runs through out this short novel".
Written in 1962, this book takes us back to the beginning of the era when women were starting to push back against the assumption that, even if they went to college, they would marry and have kids right after.
Sarah, our narrator, is a bit surprised that her older sister, the stunningly beautiful Louise, is not just marrying, but marrying Stephen, a writer who is distinctly odd.
The sisters have never been close, so Sarah has no idea why Louise might be marrying who she does.
Sarah doesn’t give it too much attention, though; she’s having her own crisis of trying to figure out what she wants to do with her life now that she’s graduated.
A Summer Bird-Cage is evidence that an author can make a novel work for me even when I find the two main characters, an insufferable pair of sisters named Sarah and Louise, neither likable nor interesting.
Louise marries a snotty, rich author and Sarah moves to London and works as a file clerk while deciding what to do.
Actually, the main theme of this story, of being "over-educated but without any sense of vocation," of being a thinking person adrift in a largely amoral consumer society, is certainly still revelant, and the story still feels fresh and lively fifty years after its first publication.
This one is narrated by Sarah, a British woman in her early 20s, with a fresh degree from Oxford in hand, who simply does not know what to do with herself.
Complicating things is the fact that Sarah has spent her life trying to live up to her classically beautiful, elegant, elusive, perfect older sister, Louise.
The novel begins with Sarah attending Louise’s wedding, and the bridegroom is one of those things that Sarah does not like.
The novel is a little uneven, as it consists mainly of Sarah wandering around, trying on different approaches to life.

"dilemma" of women graduate from college اسلوبها بسيط وكوميدى جداا بس برغم ان المشكلة اللى بتتكلم عنها منتشرة فى مجتمعنا جدا وهيا صعوبة ان الست تبقى ناجحة فى بيتها وعملها وانها لازم تختار بس الصراحة انا نفسى زى سارة "T want to have my cake and eat it " شخصية سارة فيها نقاط سلبية كتيير طول الرواية بنشوف الشخصيات من وجهة نظرها المنتقدة لكل اللى حواليها نقد لازع ومستفز ف بعض الاحيان
One sister older, glamourous & cold; younger home from Paris to be in wedding Choices women make
Just tolerable.
It is very much a feminist novel of England in 1960s.
There is a bleak pessimism towards marriage, domesticity, child-bearing, even love that runs through out this short novel.
Her strange relationship with her sister, and the sister's even stranger marriage, as well as Sarah's experiences with her friends in London all underscore the gender inequality and the prevalent patriarchy in the social norms that intelligent, educated women are expected (by others and themselves) to uphold.
There is no radical solution at hand, just a self-defeating realization of the binds of marriage, motherhood and economic dependence.
A Summer Bird-Cage is my 4th Drabble book (after The Millstone, Radiant Way, and Seven Sisters).
It is a story about 2 sisters, their relationships and marriage.
I really enjoy Drabble's early books such as The Millstone.
It is witty, honest, thoughtful, well-prosed and quite philosophical.
Very interesting analysis on the older sister's behaviour, seen by the younger one.
Some conversations are a bit too complex for me and perhaps it is so because I never experienced their world, their style, their class and lifestyle, but it's all the same very charming, thought-provoking, intelligent and funny.
Perhaps the rare and simple pleasure of being seen for what one is, compensates for the misery of being it.- Margaret Drabble, A Summer BirdcageA Summer Birdcage was published in 1963 by a 24 year-old Margaret Drabble about things that would concern a 24 year-old middle-class woman.
The sixties is not a decade I generally read in and I wasn’t sure what to expect.
The truly vintage cover, the pocket for the old-school library date due card, the sepia-toned pages, the heavy serif font, these things both put me off and drew me in.
I never thought I’d find that not much has changed in the past 50 years.Read Full Review
"To force a unity from a quarrel, a high continuum from a sequence of defeats and petty disasters, to live on the level of the heart rather than the level of the slipping petticoat, this is what we spend our life on, and this is what wears us out.
My attitude to the petticoat is firmer than hers, but I am exhausted nevertheless."One of the most comforting and quotable paragraphs I've read in a long time.
Already looking forward to re-reading.
An enjoyable if slight book and the first book I've read by Margaret Drabble - her first book.Slightly difficult to feel any great sympathy for, or empathise with, either of the two main protagonists and the style of writing seems very much rooted in a different, earlier period (this was published in 1962 and set around the same time). It struck me as quite similar in the tone of the language to Jane Austen.The story though, such as it is, does enough to compel you through the book and to find out what happens to the main players.
Margaret Drabble's wit and brains are surely stimulating and entertaining. But this book is a downer, about neurotic and half-formed middle-class Brits who talk trash about each other all day long (with virtual strangers) and spend inordinate amounts of energy keeping each other at arm's length (including siblings). She was only 23 when she wrote it so we have to forgive her. I have a soft spot for those "London bedsit" scenes, but you can get those in Barbara Pym or Agatha Christie, without feeling so bad about being a human being.
The story of 2 sisters Margaret Drabble and A.S. Byatt-unbeknownst to me at the time of reading. How much is fiction is unclear but in true love/hate fashion both sisters struggle to find their place in the world and in relation to each other. There is not much love on either side, more competition really not all of it healthy. There is a reconciliation of sorts at the end of this fairly bleak look at single women's lives in the early sixties.
Starts off well enough but does not deliver. All too clear that this was not written to engage and entertain the reader but more as a device in which Drabble could try to work out her deep-rooted feelings of envy for her actual big sister. That, along with the petty snobbery and superficiality of the protagonist and her crowd does not make for a good read and in fact I threw the book away from me in disgust after four or five chapters.
Sarah has come to be a bridesmaid in her older sister's summer wedding. This is the story of Sarah and Louise's rocky adult relationship; told from Sarah's perspective as she comes to terms with her sister's new marriage. Sarah had idolized her sister as a child, and goes through a year of self-discovery as she finds her new place in the relationship with Louise. I liked this story, although it did drag in parts. I give it an A!
Sicuramente una lettura non banale e con diversi spunti di riflessione sugli anni sessanta e il radicale cambiamento dei costumi. Qualcosa non mi ha convinto appieno, la storia non mi ha appassionato, i personaggi non mi stavano simpatici e in generale il libro, scritto nel 63, risulta un po' datato.
Good character study of sister rivalry, especially when sisters don't truly know each other. I found the ending sweet but also somewhat disappointing as the author, Margaret Drabble, had led the reader to believe much more would be revealed about a marriage not exactly made in heaven. I'll have a commentary in the coming days at readingwithdebra.blogspot.com.
I much prefer vintage Margaret Drabble, when she was first exploring young women and their roles in society at a time of great change. In this novel, marriage and a woman's role with or without it are explored through two very different sisters.
