https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19161902-the-alcoholics
Not one of Thompson's best. Not very plotty, no crime. Though it is published by Vintage Crime (I have the paperback - my boyfriend once found it at a used bookstore, and also didn't like It). I can only imagine this was written for the money, one of those exploitative drugstore paperbacks, telling you the scandals of alcoholism. There is sex. From 1953.
There are many reasons why I picked up THE ALCOHOLICS by Jim Thompson.
It’s short.
I’m working on a book about Alcoholics Anonymous and felt reading this novel would be somehow thematically appropriate.
There’s no specific AA talk on these pages, though there are points where the two intersect, such as how they define the “alcoholic.” But Thompson’s gothic tale of a suicidal doctor running a sanatorium for rummies, complete with a lisping femme fatale nurse and a couple of salt-of-the-earth black employees, in far superior in that it’s less dogmatic and has more interesting characters.
Whatever shall we do?" "Let's put on a show!" Chapter Two: "Nurse, you are a cheap, blonde whore!" "Like ya likes 'em, doc!" "Not only that, but you're also stealing drugs!" "You're a fine one to talk, chum!" Chapter Three: "The show had a modicum of success!
We saved the clinic!" "Hooray!" "Let's have a drink to celebrate!" Chapter Four: "Nurse..." "Yes...?" "You may be cheap..." "Yes..." "You may be a whore..." "Yes..." "You may be stealing drugs and selling them to pay me for your abortions..." "Well, you won't do the abortions for free..." "But, you've got a heart of gold!
I give this one three stars because Jim Thompson's like a diner: He's no five star restaurant, but if you want to see the other 99 percent of America, read Jim Thompson.
Here he is describing a "successful" American: "It was [his success], rather, because of an attribute which many claim, but which, happily, very few possess: the trait of making no move which did not somehow contribute to his personal advancement." Also, some fantastic insight into the condition of patients in rehab.
I know; I lasted a day before fleeing like Robert Downey, Jr. But I wasn't at The El Healthy Rehab, where I would have lasted longer.When I say three stars, I mean five stars...in this case.
However, the elements of the noir here are still present and the femme fatale in the form of a nurse, is in its place correcting the line of stockings.The plot develops on the principle of tightening a loop around the neck of the protagonist.
Впрочем, элементы нуара здесь все же присутствуют и фам-фаталь в форме медсестры, находится на своем месте поправляя линию чулков.Сюжет развивается по принципу петли неумолимо затягивающейся на шее главного героя.
После кульминации он вероятно умирает, так как происходящее далее невозможно объяснить как попаданием на небеса.А отношения между главным героем и его фам фаталь, они как у паучков.
This is one messed-up book.
I see why it is almost forgotten except by die-hard Thompson fans.
It is so freakin' weird and is not a crime novel at all.
Rather, it's sort of a Gothic, but without a satisfying payoff, which is what makes it even more twisted.
It's just freakin' bizarre.
It's just sheer weirdness like a Fellini movie or David Lynch.
I'm quite sure it's based directly on Thompson's experiences; in fact, the author himself makes a resoundingly-unveiled appearance in it.
It's awesome and weird and messed up, but definitely not for everyone.
Sordid yarn about a writer who dries out in a sanatorium and gets bullied all through the book by a mean nurse. The doctor is named Murphy, just like Randall McMurphy, hmmm....do you suppose Ken Kesey swiped just a little bit of this stuff for his book "One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest"? Thompson should've sued. He could've used the money!
Not one of my favorite Jim Thompson novels. The bad guys weren't very bad in this one.
More cheerful than you might think. ;)
Fans of asylum films like THE COBWEB and SHOCK CORRIDOR will have a field day with this lurid little novella full of extreme characters ( doctor being just as nuts as everyone else) populating a time capsule of antiquated 1950's era ideas that regard diseases of the mind with a moral superiority that borders on comedy.
acrid, blunt,. funny (if you r in the know) true, brutal
More chaotic than all of the other books by him that i've read. Slight disappointment.
Not a very interesting Thompson novel, pretty disappointed. With as much booze as Jim threw in him you'd think he'd have been able to write a half-decent novel about his favorite subject. Anyways, I forgive him and it has its quirky moments I suppose.
Fast and fun. This was my first Thompson and it is zany and illicit and satisfying in the way of "One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest" without being too involved with itself. I'll bet this was as fun to write as it was to read.
Doing that is interesting, because it’s essentially a random dice-roll chance of getting a good book.
Doc Murphy is head of the El Healtho (seriously?) Rehab Clinic for alcoholics and he’s on the beach surrounding the clinic, thinking about his patients and stuff, then thinking about walking into the ocean and drowning himself.
There’s a flimsy threat that if one of his patients doesn’t continue staying on the whole clinic’ll go under, but the story never focuses on this or makes it seem like a huge deal (big mistake).
Instead, this whole book focuses on each of the alcoholics, most of whom are as uninteresting as ants (bad comparison, ants are way more interesting).
I've read a lot of Jim Thompson, about fifteen or so of his books. This is about the worst of them. The attempted humour falls flat and the plot goes absolutely nowhere.
Каждый пациент с утра няшный и вполне адекватный субьект, но уже ближе к обеду ему совершенно нельзя верить.
Знаешь чем отличается алкаш от простого смертного, спросит доктор Питер Мерфи у своего утреннего гостя, алкаш никогда не врёт, он только искажает реальность и в этом ему нет равных.
У чернокожего амбала-медбрата с психикой всё окей, вот только он уверен, что его способы нетрадиционной медицины тоже имеют право на существование.
И вроде бы всё неплохо, и медсестру - жестко и поперек койки, но сеттинг шепчет тебе в ухо – а ведь на мне можно было так покататься.
А ты ему – а ведь и правда, бро.
I'm a big fan of Jim Thompson's dark and disturbing form of crime novels but this book threw me for a loop.
This is not really a crime novel and it has what I guess you would call a happy ending.
I guess much of this book was probably somewhat shocking back in the day however I just found it to be an uneven fumble of comedy and disturbing behavior.
The story never really goes anywhere and as I said before ends with everyone happy and in a better place...except the lobotomized pervert.
The Summer 2016 Jim Thompson binge continues...The Alcoholics.
The three-sentence synopsis on the back is sadly one of the few engaging things about this novella; otherwise, there's really nothing that's memorable.
Basically there's next to no storyline here, and the unmemorable and underdeveloped characters fail to bolster the book.
Certainly some of the topics addressed and the dialogue would have been racy for their time, so I did find that aspect of things remotely interesting.
Overall, The Alcoholics remains a dud though; probably had some real potential, but it fails to deliver.
The title tells you exactly and entirely what this story is about - the difficulties and frustrations inherent in dealing with or being an alcoholic. If, like me, you enjoy a well-told story, that keeps tightly to its theme, and manages to restrain itself from wandering into unrelated digressions, then you'll enjoy this book; if not, try something by James Ellroy or Raymond Chandler, both of which writers Jim Thompson produces material very similar to [sorry about that awful sentence construction, I talked myself into a corner].
This guy is a crime writer (well, he was, he apparently died in 1977) with a supposedly (according to the New York Review of Books) literary bent.I found it interesting enough to read through to the end, but it seemed quite contrived and simplistic to me.
I would imagine that's probably just a result of its being a product of its time, though.
In any case, if real people were like the good and bad characters in the book, the world would probably be a much nicer place than it is, but perhaps not as interesting.
This is a good, quick read; however if you are looking for true noir, this isn't it.
Set in an alcoholism rehab center in the Los Angeles, CA area around 1950 or so, the main character, Dr. Peter S.
Interesting reflection of the ethos of the era it was written in - some things would probably be considered politically incorrect today by some.
The other thing I found curious about it, there was no mention of Alcoholics Anonymous.
Don't know if that reflects the attitudes toward it of the era's medical establishment, or the author's own prejudices.
A goal of mine is to own and read all of Thompson's work. this one is funnier and way lighter than say pop. 1280 which is utterly brutal and amazing. Who knows, he may have been thinking up a play in his mind when writing this book, it seems theatrical to me. Humorous way of writing like some dialects sound (can't remember the term for that right now...). he writes compassionately about the misery of hopeless alcoholism which gives the story heart. was hoping he'd vamp on that even more. on to the next one!
Ah, the beauty of Jim Thompson: Take a seemingly simple idea, give it layers and lather it with a fun plot.I kept waiting for a murder until I realised that this one was more about a great twist and the oh-so-excellent ending (and wow was I proud of myself when I figured out how this would end).I didn't give it five stars because I've read a few of Mr Thompson's that have been even better, and yeah, maybe I prefer a murder.
Different from the typical Jim Thompson thriller, this book is more funny, less dark, and with a much more sympathetic hero. Plus, it was ahead of its time (1953) in more ways than one --- competent, capable black characters, for one thing, but also in its whole treatment of alcoholism, before A.A. was a well-known concept. In parts, it read like a warning tract against alcoholism written by an old-timer A.A. man, but it was mainly very good.
I read a handful of James Thompson novels last year, because I'd always heard he was great and wanted to give him a try. The Alcoholics was my second, selected because I thought he did such a good job of capturing alcoholic behavior in my first exposure, After Dark, My Sweet. I should have read the reviews here and on Amazon; this book is Dullsville, and only of interest because of its descriptions of outdated methods for "curing" alcoholism.
Completely implausible. Mildly entertaining. A product of its time (1953), the writer displays a fair bit of both racism and misogyny -- the people of color as well as the women in the story are cartoonish. The biggest bit of praise I can give is that the author does seem to have true empathy towards, and understanding of, the plight of the alcoholic.
A strange story. A struggling, frantic doctor, Dr. Murphy, runs a struggling, weird clinic to treat alcoholics. With a sadistic nurse. And a pregnant woman. And a man who is essentially a vegetable. Just a weird, strange story.
This was tedious as fuck, almost like a handful of stories about drunks and nurses in a crappy sort of rehab, all woven together loosely with the doctor of the joint. Would have given this book two stars, but the final few chapter really started coming together in an interesting way.
Q: How would The Alcoholics be different if it had been written by any noir writer of the 1950s other than Jim Thompson?A: It would not be in print!First reading: circa 1999Second reading: 20 March 2010
