https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/350065.Scruples
This was THE pornographic novel in my coming of age story. It was the only thing I had access to that was mildly explicit when I was a throbbing tween, so the spine was broken and the dirty pages dogeared. I'd probably cringe if I read it today, but it has a special place in my heart and in my pants.
Really, I could put any book by JK here -- I have read her entire oeuvre -- but Scruples was the book that stole my heart. An overweight, awkward, ostracized ugly duckling who sheds her weight, sheds her billionaire husband, finds her power and wants to run the world? Billy Hunnenwell Ikehorn Orsini Elliott 4-ever.
Did every girl in the world steal this from her mother just read the sex parts and then sneak it back on the shelf? I feel vindicated that most of the Good Reads reviews say the same thing. Totally trashy and awesome. I've been wanting to re-read this for a while, just to see if it's still as shocking to me. Probably not.
by which time i have a good idea that perhaps this need not be read (even) once...this is very much a book of the materialistic '80s.
there was a tv show i must have seen a few times as a youth, i think called 'lifestyles of the rich and famous', and this book is kind of that.
this was a book of the early eighties (when i read must have been late eighties).
i think i read this through trying to discover what women want: money and sex.
I loved Judith Krantz's books when I was in my twenties and still find anything contra to my own culture and old traditional values exciting. In fact, we raved about her books. I'm not rating it since I've read it so long ago and might have a totally different experience if I reread it.I just wanted to add them to my book experiences.
But when I bought a grubby, well-thumbed copy in a small second-hand-store ten years ago, I got addicted for a few months and had to read all the other Krantz books as well - ploughing facinatedly through the high society glamour and relationship drama and steaminess.
Though, each time I see shelves tagged with "guilty pleasure" I immediately think of Scruples and the rest of those sticky sweets.
2015: "I am re-reading Scruples - for the third time in fifteen years.
I would be a bit ashamed otherwise since the book is the epitome of the term "guilty pleasure" and revolves around lots of beautiful and/or filthily rich people who survive on pure greed and horniness."
total trash, but so worth it!decadent 80's excess, fashion, sex, love, business...it has it all.A guilty pleasure, trashy beach book you cant put down!
I’ve been comparing many novels to SCRUPLES and yet still no post...http://sleaze-factor.blogspot.ca/2016...
The entire time I was reading I kept asking myself "why?" Why make a book about this modern Cinderella type woman and her boutique and then devote hundreds of pages to supportive filler bullshit like Spider's obsession with a depressed model?
Why make a nearly 600 page book about self-obsessed, driven, rich people who can't make up their minds?
Billy is a decent character and some parts are more entertaining than others, but you will forget the whole thing as soon as you turn the last page.
Honestly probably closer to 3 starts, but for some reason this felt like it took FOREVER to get through. Fun & light but ... wouldn't have minded it cut down a bit.
Trashy. Trashy. Trashy. Love it. Put on the shelf of books to read when your brain is tired and needs some good old smut. An even better option for such a mindset: Valley of the Dolls!
Book 7 of the reading challenge. A bestseller from the year I graduated high school. (40 years ago). Really??!!It was a good story but unnecessarily crude. If the author wasn’t a woman she wouldn’t have been able to get away with some of the language she used
Well ... I thought this was going to be more fun than it ended up being. Hyped up as a sexy, lavish romance in Hollywood, where everyone is so rich they could never go broke and everyone is having sex with everyone else. And really, that's exactly what you get, and it was kind of depressing, to be totally honest. If this is anything like what fame and excessive wealth are actually like, I'm incredibly glad I have neither.
Read this years and years ago. I remember that I loved it and red it more than once. I think I was 15/16 at that time so reading all those books (Harold Robbins comes to mind) where you read about sex I devoured it. So yes my taste has changed over the years, but for the above reasons I am giving this 5 stars.
This is one of those books that teenage girls pass back and forth so they can all read the "sex parts." It's crazy! Crazy good.
Oh my god, this is trash at it's very best. This book taught me what "glory holes" are. Life changing!
This was one of those "forbidden" books that I snuck into the house and read under the covers so my Mom would not catch me reading it [to be fair to her, she never really censored me per say, but would have been unhappy that her 13/14 year old daughter was reading such an "adult" novel]. I do not remember a lot about this book, I will admit. I believe I liked it at the time and I know I checked it out more than once.
BEVERLY HILLS GLITZ & GLAM👍: three compelling main characters, intersecting plot lines, insights into the film industry and the world of high fashion. 👎: a few too many minor characters, endlessly rambling descriptions that devolve into tedious tangents, the trashy sex scenes were a bit much. Overall a very entertaining glimpse into the bicoastal world of wealth, power, & haute couture.
I read this at 13, 14... or maybe earlier, at 12? I remember loving it, the pornography, the presentation of luxury, if I'm not mistaken someone wins an Oscar in the story? I'd love to read this today for laughs. Anyway, I survived it. I'm not going to mind a bit if my kids turn to smut when they (hopefully) become young readers.
This book was so borrring.......... I managed to get through about 70% but then just could not bring myself to go any further. The writing style is terrible and the story is nothing. If you want guilty pleasure type palette cleansers, read Valley of the Dolls or something.
This seems like it's straight from the author's actual life, so I can see how that would creep in there, but it took the book in a different direction that I didn't like as much.Spider, our California boy is equally boring.
It's actually pretty cheese-filled.There's also a whole lot in the middle and end of the book about a journalist whose name I can't remember (Maggie?), and it doesn't say much about her that I don't think she's even mentioned in this Wikipedia write-up.
I think I'm mainly giving it three stars because of the potential it had--money!, sex!!, scandal!!!--and not so much what it actually is--some boring characters, also some completely irrelevant characters, a so-so ending.
I knew I'd love this book.
I'd read "Till We Meet Again" years ago after spontaneously remembering the miniseries and wondered why I'd never read "Scruples." So basically Judith Krantz described the store exactly the way I picture Anthropologie.
Love it.Also, how could it end like that?
But this is how to end a book with a HEA.
Judith Krantz probably didn't even think to write a sequel until years later, right?
That's how it's done.Oh, but if long sentences are not your thing, then you'll probably need a valium to get through there.
I think I counted six commas in one sentence.
I felt like it was a dirty pleasure, thumbing through pages of sex, profanity, power, socialites...I'm going to have to get a trenchcoat and sunglasses and hit the bookstore to get more Judith Krantz perhaps.I loved the characters.
I loved the use of the "C" word in a positive, lusty light as well as a derogatory way that women today are dramatically horrified to hear.My only dislike was Billy's true path to happiness.
She forgets her birth control pills for 3 months because her subconscious is sabotaging her, knowing that true happiness is pregnancy?
I repeat, dirty pleasure!
I read this book when I was 11-years-old.
And it would seem that I read it because of the sex.
To be honest, the real draw for me was the glamour.
Krantz tells a story of a world I was fascinated by at that time.
It was about money and fashion, fame and glamour.
I don't really remember the sex scenes, but I do remember Krantz's descriptions of outfits, interiors, store merchandise and scenes.
And I think that is the brilliance of this book.
Sure, it's a trashy novel, but it is a fun story.
Although Judith Krantz displays very limited knowledge about South America by committing mistakes such as saying Buenos Aires is in Brazil, and that people speak Spanish in Rio, I have to admit she was able to create a very involving and interesting story about the world of fashion and cinema in Beverly Hills.
She is indeed a writer of "sex and shopping" as it was said before, but also a writer who really knows the meaning of reading for fun...
Her book is highly entertaining and addictive, her characters are poignant and real.
I can't wait to read another book by her.
I know, chee-zy, Schmaltzy (with a capital 'S').....but, this book was one great read when I read it! Really entertaining and it spoke to my fascination with all things glamorous when I read it as a teenager. I want to re-read this book asap. I still have one thing I related to and consequently learned in this book in play today: Wear black with cleavage and you're properly accessorized. Simple. It's kind of naughty, too. It's on my top 10 list. Cheap and tawdry, and so alluring.
I found this book on my parents' bookshelf when I was about 12... I could not put it down! I had never seen/heard/read anything like it, and I think that I owe a lot of my sex education to this book. LOL I should go back and read it again as an adult and see what I think of it, and how much my pre-teen mind took away from it aside, of course, from the naughty bits. My mom found it under my bed and about killed me. Hahahaha! God, this book has memories!
This is one of the books we can blame for my lifelong passion for commercial fiction. I fell in love with this book when I was in high school, and I still think Billy Ikehorn is one of the great characters in the genre. In my next life, I plan to study abroad in France and marry a rich guy (or several) and own lots of department stores.
One of the ultimate guilty pleasures of the eighties. Probably quite bad, but hard to resist all the same. Judith Kranz was the queen of glitzy trash, and somehow she knew how to make it work. This one, and Princess Daisy, are great fun - in the same way bad campy movies can be. Just don't take them seriously. And enjoy the ride.
Yeah, OK, go ahead, mock me. I devoured this in college.
