https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/564318.The_Thing_on_the_Doorstep_and_Other_Weird_Stories
Like the other two Joshi Lovecraft anthologies, this collection is helpfully annotated, expertly introduced, and includes pieces Lovecraft wrote throughout his career.
The anthology ends with three of the authors most effective works: "The Dunwich Horror" (a powerful long short story marred by a conventional ending which dissipates that true horror of Wilbur Whateley's death and the revelation of his alien nature), "The Case of Charles Dexter Ward" (a novel which effectively combines a Lovecraft-like protagonist with a Hawthorneian gothic atmosphere and a host of subterranean horrors), and "The Mountains of Madness" (an impressionistic and abstract short novel which evokes horror primarily through the suggestive details of an antarctic landscape).
Lovecraft is most definitely one of the BEST<\b>!
This is a good introduction to Lovecraft's stories if you haven't read any.
I think the question of genre is one of the more interesting endemic to Lovecraft’s work and legacy.
Both the modernist genre products meant for mass consumption & the highbrow, avant garde or countercultural niches are dynamic conceptual poles & most novels, stories, poems & whatever else, exist somewhere on a spectrum between them; and at the risk of sounding like a dilettantish Deleuzo-Derridean, this is a continuum of variously assembled protocols, each with its own hybrid atomic structure which determines the thematic or narratological coordinates the work itself receives.
This book contains some of the best short stories I've ever read, despite a few of them feeling unfinished.
One of the best is The Case of Charles Dexter Ward, the story of a man seeking out the truth about his great-great-great grandfather, and the terrible secrets that he uncovered in this search.My favorite story of all, though, is At the Mountains of Madness.
Don't make the mistake of passing this one up thinking that's all he has to offer.
Lovecraft was virtually unknown during his lifetime, and only achieved fame after his death.ReviewThis 500-page collection contains what Lovecraft considers his “best work” of fiction, in particular 10 short stories and two short novels.
It’s a very beautifully written story about our search for the perfect place in the world, with a nice twist in the end.Lovecraft works best with short stories.
His stories include references to historical events, scientific discoveries, old books, and works by other authors.Lovecraft’s weakness is novels.
Lovecraft works best with short stories.
I rarely rate short story collections higher than 3 stars but this was brilliant!
I liked that there were recurring themes within the stories and Lovecraft's whole invented mythology of the Old Ones was amazing and creepy.
The nods to Edgar Allen Poe were nice too.I think my favourite stories in this collection were The Dunwich Horror, The Case of Charles Dexter Ward and Under the Pyramids - all were awesomely weird and superbly well developed.
Under the Pyramids was particularly great and had me wondering why I've never read anything like it before?!
The concept was brilliant and the Egyptian setting worked brilliantly.Overall conclusion: yes to Lovecraft!
This took me a little longer than I thought.
I love Lovecraft and like the majority of theses stories, but I found this one longer than the other collection I've read (The Call of Cthulhu and Other Weird Stories).
There was one story called "The Case of Charles Dexter Ward" that I thought went on a little too long, but I still enjoyed it, but maybe my least favorite in the book.
That story was about 100 pages too long.
My two favorite stories in this were "Beyond the Wall of Sleep" and "Under the Pyramids." I found it kind of neat Lovecraft ghost wrote a story for Harry Houdini.
Psychadelic.But holy crap can he write good stories!
Not gonna lie, if you don't like the paranormal, bending-reality, Tim Buron/Stephen King style, Lovecraft might be hard to enjoy.
:) He's the original master of thriller, horror, and supernatural suspense!
All of his stories are intense, suspenseful, unique thrillers.
You may not love each character, but you grow immensely attached to them; they are your guide through whatever universe Lovecraft has placed them in.
No story is alike.Pretty much, if you like Supernatural, Welcome to Night Vale, X-Files, Stephen King, or Tim Burton, you'll love their original inspiration: Lovecraft.
Would have been 2 stars if I just took my average rating of the five stories included in this collection.But a short story collection should have at least one story I enjoy reading.
And this didn't.In the end I really had to fight through this book, which clearly means 1 star for me.The collection I read (in German) contains the following stories:- Das Ding auf der Schwelle (The Thing on the Doorstep)- Der Außenseiter (The Outsider)- Die Farbe aus dem All (The Colour Out of Space)- Träume im Hexenhaus (The Dreams in the Witch-House)- Der Schatten aus der Zeit (The Shadow Out of Time)For me 'Die Farbe aus dem All' was the best of the five stories.
But I wouldn't have rated it 3 stars.Maybe H.P. Lovecraft's weird tales are just not my cup of tea.
I love H.P. Lovecraft.
He's the author I remember wishing I could read in middle school but didn't know existed (although I tried writing a few disastrous stories of my own).
I thought this one line from At the Mountains of Madness (1931) sums him up neatly:"It is absolutely necessary, for the peace and safety of mankind, that some of earth's dark, dead corners and unplumbed depths be let alone; lest sleeping abnormalities wake to resurgent life, and blasphemously surviving nightmares squirm and splash out of their black lairs to newer and wider conquests."
Lovecraft's stories are curious, intense and chilling. He is a genuine master of the genre and the short story form.
My first introduction to HPL. It was without a doubt a difficult read for the numerous references as well as a century old language. Even though it took me at least three minutes to read a page, it was an interesting read. Very easy to get distracted but he is a great author. I like the type of horror he created. All the pieces in this hook were unique, and tying together with his imaginary places and people. All in all I look forward to the necronomicon. 👍
Lovecraft's storytelling is unmatched unfathomed and unexplainable
Don't go to Antarctica.
This collection didn't grab me the way that Call of Cthulhu & Other Weird Stories did. Mountains of Madness is a classic, of course, and Dunwich Horror is fun--but they didn't particularly capture me as such; it was more that I wanted to take the worldbuilding he'd done and make plots with it.
Despite the fact that the author, himself, expressed displeasure at many of the tales included in this collection, it still demonstrates quite distinctly Lovecraft's affinity for the grotesque and uncanny.
It's rare that the written word manages to truly frighten me, yet I gleefully admit that I found myself tense and jumpy more than once.
Sadly, Lovecraft's regrettable and distasteful ethnocentricity (if not outright bigotry) rears its ugly head numerous times throughout the collection.
At other times, though, Lovecraft's heavy-handed defamations actually distract from the story itself, breaking the delicately woven spell – and reminding the reader that the worst evils lurk not in ocean depths or frozen wastelands but in petty human hearts everywhere.
But as I started digging into his more well-known stories, the ones I was most excited to read ("The Case of Charles Dexter Ward," "Dunwich Horror," and "At the Mountains of Madness") I was less enthused by the end.To Lovecraft's credit, he is consistent in his writing, but to the point where it became predictable.
I've always been vaguely interested in Lovecraft.
But, I admit, what really got me into wanting to read his work is Bloodborne, a game with heavy Lovecraftian influence.
I wanted more of the mysterious, otherworldy horror experience so I picked up this anthology.
After reading, I can safely say he is one of the best.
I personally enjoy horror best when it involves something alien and incomprehensible.
My favorites were The Tomb, The Music of Erich Zann, The Case of Charles Dexter Ward, and The Dunwich Horror.
I am definitely going to read more.
For a long time I struggled with this book, mostly due to The Case of Charles Dexter Ward, reportedly Lovecraft's longest work, and perhaps far from his best.
For my money, the best two pieces in here are At the Mountains of Madness, and The Thing on the Doorstep - the former managing to nicely work the tension across a more drawn-out escapade, and the latter wonderfully concise.
I'd give the set four stars if it wasn't so uneven or padded with filler, but it's still worth picking up for the good stuff.
This is one of the better anthologies of H.P. Lovecraft's work that I've come across.
It has all of his greatest hits, like "The Temple," "Under the Pyramids," and "At the Mountains of Madness." Each and everyone is a beautiful story of cosmic horror, and realistic terror.
The thing to appreciate is that HPL wrote about the "average" person.
Which he didn't have a lot of esteem for; so when his characters are foolhardy, or lack the foresight of a more sensible person--you can chalk it up to Lovecraft's disdain for the average person.
Relative newcomer to this writer's work. Very impressive. Extraordinary works of imagination written with such realism the stories are engrossing, believable and chilling. Repeated re-readings will be rewarding and I'm looking forward to the losing myself in the rest of his work.Also, this edition was well put together with bibliographies for every tale and insightful footnotes. I'll be sticking to this series for the rest.
After considerable effort, I finally finished reading The Dunwich Horror. I admit that it was at times hilarious, and I appreciate that, in this story, a dog and a librarian save the world. Regarding the remaining selections, I can only attest to their sedative effect. Despite my high level of anxiety, they reliably put me to sleep each time I attempted to read them. So I give up!
This was my first Lovecraft book, and I was hooked completley! I recomend all of his stories!The thing on the Doorstep is great. It starts with this friend recalling how a body came to be on his doorstep, and from there he unveils this long story of the occult and body snatching and evil spirits. And in the end you are left with the sense of horror at what had occured.
There is a thin line between "subtle, creeping horror" and "extremely dull." Lovecraft mostly knows where that line is.(There is also a thin line between "establishing setting through detailed description" and "I did a shit-tonne of research and you're going to hear about it." Lovecraft has no idea where that line is.)
I always heard good things about H.P. Lovecraft, so I checked this out. Good short-stories, sort of Poe-ish, creepy, weird and creative. However, the writing is dense, a bit too dense for me in parts. I want to read Call of Cthulhu next, that's his most famous short story, and hopefully more accessible than this collection.
I learned that you should never dig up bodies in graveyards for any reason whatsoever, not even if your oldest friend (who has progressively gone made from dabbling in evil science) asks for your help.
"The Tomb"--"The Tomb" is about the possibilities, risks, & pleasures of the imagination, as symbolized by the "moist verdure" of Jervas's hollow, with the attendant Spenserian imagery of the "bower." The bower of bliss, and the bower of the imagination, in which Lovecraft's self-proclaimed day-dreamer has the opportunity to read, think, and conjure new worlds, far removed from the tedious banalities of everyday life.
A beautiful, if terrible, vision of the artist lost at sea in lands where folks don't care much for art."Pickman's Model"--One of Lovecraft's most horrifying stories, as far as I'm concerned.
But our life is too short and our power of vision too small for us to be more than friends in the sense of this sublime possibility.Let us then believe in our star friendship even if we should be compelled to be earth enemies.’ Friedrich NietzscheBeyond the Wall of Sleep was written in 1919.
… but who can tell what lies beyond the basalt pillars of the West?’ (p.24)Maybe:Beyond some symbolical connections between The White Ship and desire of the unknown …Beyond some connection between The White Ship and Plato’s lost realm of Atlantis situated beyond, again, the Pillars of Hercules …The White Ship is the calling / imagination / evocation of fantastic worlds beyond and inside the Pillars of Hercules.A quotation:‘for ocean is more ancient than the mountains, and freighted with the memories and the dreams of Time.’ (p.
The stories themselves are unnecessarily lengthy, giving long and detailed descriptions, which I suppose should have given the narrative more credibility and realism or something (and maybe they did some hundred years ago).
I got tired of the same reaction of the characters to whatever was happening, predictability of it all and numerous attempts of the author to promote his other books (especially Necronomicon).
Finally, the events could probably be considered weird many many years ago, but I didn't think they were at all, apart from a couple of nice twists here and there.
I didn't like this book.
