https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13079.Skinny_Dip
Ok, now I get it! And by "it" I mean all the Hiaasen hoopla among those with whom I share a certain brand of humor – an "it" that baffled me after my first encounter with Carl via Bad Monkey. We're back in Florida, where even the craziest of characters are plausible probable. Since I'm not exactly trailblazing new territory here in book review land, I'll just give you some quick picks from the cast of   Skinny Dip   which may or may not overlap with everyone's favorite super secret spy agency (d
We're back in Florida, where even the craziest of characters are plausible probable.
Since I'm not exactly trailblazing new territory here in book review land, I'll just give you some quick picks from the cast of 
Joey Perrone
tossed off a cruise ship and into the drink by her husband Chaz (who is selfish even by Sterling Archer standards).
Chaz Perrone
He's more than happy to fake results for his boss whose farming operations pollute the fragile ecosystem, but, he's not exactly outdoorsy.
Assorted other tie-ins?Dumb muscle bodyguard (and one of the funniest characters).
If fate dealt Joey a cruel blow that night on the cruise ship, it's certainly making up for it by creating the perfect situation in which to exact revenge on her philandering and murderous husband.
However, for all of the absurdity, there is an underlying environmental message about the Everglades and how big money and political influence can circumvent the very agencies who are trying to do right by our planet.
However, if you're not looking for an environmental message, that's cool--still consider giving Hiaasen a try.
In this book, Hiassen concentrates on Everglades pollution.The story:  Chaz Perrone - who likes to be called 'Dr. Perrone' - has a Ph.D. in marine biology and a cushy job for the state of Florida - monitoring pollution in the Everglades.
He rids the house of Joey's belongings; romances his long-time girlfriend/hairdresser Ricca Spillman; and dreams of a fruitful, long-lasting partnership with Red. Though Chaz is repeatedly questioned by Detective Rolvaag (à la Columbo), he believes there's no proof of his crime.
As they spend time together, Joey and Mick develop an attraction, which should appeal to romance fans.
That he's good, there's no doubt.
All the bad people got what was coming to them and none of the good people ever fell prey to their various bumblings and inadequacies.
I devoured the last half of the tale in a single sitting, staying up late enough in bed reading that my performance at the office the next day may have been diminished.It's just...
I've read the greats.
You end up feeling kind of hollow.No hard feelings, Carl?
You're still as good as Elmore Leonard!
It got me thinking.So I asked one of my friends.The conversation went like this:Me:You don't think I'm weird because I'm from Florida, do you?Them: Remember last summer?Me: Yeah?Them: Remember when you killed that snake?Me: The copperhead?
I remember this time when a moccasin got in our house, and she pinned it to the couch with that machete and then cut it's head off with a steak knife!
Of course, hanging on to a bail of weed in the middle of the ocean gives a girl a lot of time to think about her questionable choice in men.
A place where police officers keep large pythons as pets in their apartments and paid killers collect memorial crosses from the side of the road.I have read and enjoyed the novels of Carl Hiaasen before, and Skinny Dip is one of his better efforts.
Skinny Dip is a stand-alone among the novels written by Carl Hiaasen, but fans of the author will recognize some recurring personages, among them Skink, the one-eyed giant wearing a shower cap and living off the land in the middle of the swamp, as usual saving damzels in distress and dealing cruel and unusual punishment to environmental criminals.
This is a favorite author of mine. He has the very best of characters. Bizarre, misdirected, lost, but always fun.
Hiassen moves the story along nicely and the revenge is so sweet, you will be chuckling.
Here are some nuggets for you purview:As Red Hammernut listened to Chaz Perrone’s story, he thought of the many blessings that had come his way, but also of the toil.
Red Hammernut got infuriated every time he heard some pissy liberal refer to the federal farm bill as corporate welfare.
The only problem is I am adding a bunch of Carl Hiassen’s novels to my TBR as he is just damn funny and, what the heck, I’m always up for chips and salsa.
Stranahan is back! (And so is ex-governor 'Skink'). That may be why I put a fifth(!) star on this one. Or it just fit me perfectly at the time. Anyway, I had a tremendously fun time with this book.
This book was plain hilarious. It begins with Chaz throwing wife Joey overboard a cruise ship and her not only surviving, but plotting her revenge against him with ex-cop Mick. She decides to "stay dead" while slowly driving Chaz mad until the big ending. A little action, comedy, and romance wrapped into one book. As unrealistic and laughable as Hiaasen's books are, they somehow tend to work out well this way. I always feel like it's a light break from the heavy stuff and can always expect a good laugh. This is one of my favorite of his novels.
After their bizarre chance encounter, Joey and Mick team up to find out why Joey’s philandering husband would choose to kill her rather than ask for a divorce and to get some payback in the process.Like all of Hiassen’s books, Skinny Dip takes place in the Sunshine State
I’ve seen a lot of reviewers say that Hiassen is obviously a woman hater.
Hiassen is a man’s man and writes books that dudes would want to read.
Unfortunately in Skinny Dip one of the leads is a woman.
While not even remotely as brilliant as Bad Monkey, Skinny Dip was still a fun read.
This is the seventh Hiaasen book I’ve read.
I’m pretty sure a couple of the supporting characters were extraneous and could either have been cut out completely or had their parts performed by one of the other characters.Don’t get me wrong; I did enjoy this book (hence three stars and not two) and its weaknesses certainly won’t put me off reading more Hiaasen in the future but it was definitely my least favourite of all his books I’ve read so far.
I much preferred ‘Skin Tight’, the first book to feature Stranahan.Buddy read with Sunshine Seaspray.
This book was recommended as great light, pulpy reading by two of the people I love and respect most in this world.
And it is with all respect to those two people that I say here, I just don't get it.
I mean I know its supposed to be pulpy, but the dialogue in this book reminded me of a Michael Bay screenplay.
I mean he managed to tie up all the plot points in as contrived a way as possible, while at the same time completely managing to miss anything that resembles a satisfying ending.
Carl Hiaasen is a funny author. He creates a lot of compelling and funny characters. That said, why are his female characters (especially the lead here) underdeveloped and boring. When you have tertiary characters (Tool, Red, the Captain) that are far more interesting than your main character, you have to wonder about the author's ability to flesh out the women in his books. I have the same complaint about the only other book of his (Lucky You) that I've read.Still, an amusing book - well-plotted and entertaining.
For, curiously, at the very same time that some climate scientists are questioning whether the city will even survive into the next century, Miami Beach is going through an economic and building boom that evokes nothing so much as Bloomberg-era New York at its most sparkly and flash.
'Dead' spots in the ocean, particularly all around Florida beaches!http://news.nationalgeographic.com/ne...http://www.smithsonianmag.com/science...In my humble opinion, I think America is going to have a homegrown refugee problem within a century.
It’s not a police procedural, although a policeman is trying to make the case against the murderer throughout the book.
In the beginning, the antagonist, biologist Chaz Perrone, pitches his wife Joey overboard from a cruise ship.
The rest of the book is dedicated to Joey taking revenge on her inept murderer of a husband.
She is also trying to figure out why he decided to murder her.The plot line is preposterous to the point of crazy, but the value of this novel doesn’t reside in the plot, it is in the characters.
This self-admiring worm is the best-defined character in the novel, the focal point of the action.
I picked this up at a used bookstore because I had seen it several times before and it looked somewhat amusing.
And that's about all it was: somewhat amusing.
The main characters are hollow and stereotypical, and the plot, for all its twists and turns, is fairly predictable.
(I did like Ricca, the Woman On The Side...
she was the only character whose manner and speech were both realistic and funny throughout.) The worst part about this book is the writing style: repetitious and unimaginitive, Hiaasen spells out every single detail, and in doing so ruins some of his cleverly imagined situations.
I do love to junk out on Carl Hiaasen - his characters are the best of the best as far as endearing-bizarre-flaky.
A failed attempt at killing his wife leads a fantastically sleazy, comical and completely unlikable pseudo-biologist down a hot, sticky, mosquito-infested, crocodile-ridden, and ridiculously ill-fated path...
from a previously bland housing-development life in Boca Raton to the depths of the swampy Everglades.
Crimes against the environment and one miserably failed murder attempt after the next definitely kept this read fast, fun and intriguing.
As always, Hiaasen's beyond-quirky characters drive the story.
I enjoyed this, but Nature Girl still reigns supreme
Tool is, to me, the best character in the book: very large, very dumb, but soft-hearted, lonely, and more open to new ideas and new relationships than anyone else in the story.
The story wraps up in a satisfying way, with "cosmic justice" for all!Discussion: There are several hilarious ongoing jokes in this book, from Chaz’s relationship to his male member, to Tool’s love of collecting roadside crosses, to the trials and tribulations of criminals.
Mick Stranahan may be an “old geezer” as Joey calls him affectionally, but he is one of the most endearing as well as romantic characters I have encountered in fiction.
Carl Hiaasen's books are, hands down, the best Florida postcards in the market.
That said, Carl Hiaasen writes about Floridians, apparently some of the most...
And I mean that in a good way.Now, wait a minute, there was something else I wanted to say about the novel but, given it's kind of late, I have forgotten all about it.
It's about some idiot who wants to kill his wife but fails miserably; then he tries to kill another two people but, being an absolute dim witted moron bastard, fails again.
Floridians in Carl Hiaasen's books are badass.
Ticked beyond reason, Joey wants to torment her husband.Meanwhile, Charles spends most of his time behaving like an adolescent and getting freaked out by a curious cop, Rolvaag, who thinks the marine biologist is not quite what he seems, and his real employer, Red Hammernut, whose assets would be in danger if he actually implemented the environmental practices dictated by government ordnances.Good:This is a really good plot concept.
The plot concept was good, but got bogged down in recounting Chaz's sexual life, Tool's rear injury and idiosyncrasies, little episodes about Karl's move to Minnesota, Red's rantings, and all the strange, not quite explained things that Joey and Mick do to drive Chaz nuts.
There are a lot of things that Chaz isn’t good at - marriage, his job, telling the truth, and murder, but he is good at fraud, at least for a while.
Author Carl Hiaasen has liberally dosed this tale with humor, made sure the good guys come out on top, and even redeems a bad guy through an unusual relationship.
This fun read is a quirky ride through the swampy land of the Everglades and is peopled with equally quirky characters sure to entertain you from beginning to end.
It's kind of like going on a date with a cute, charming, alcoholic electrician who's got a lot of wonderful qualities, but you can't stop thinking of another cute, charming, alcoholic electrician from your past, and wishing you were out with him instead.
I also just like his books a whole lot more in general.
I would not recommend reading this in the dead of winter if you're someplace cold, because that'd probably make you depressed and bitter.Should I make an effort to stop comparing him unfavorably to Leonard, and read more Hiassen?
Audiobook read by Stephen HoyeOn their anniversary cruise, Chaz Perrone throws his wife Joey overboard.
The bad guys are, as usual the most colorful of the lot – a hirsute giant with an addiction to painkillers, an incompetent scientist who would rather be golfing (when he’s not boinking his mistress), and a moneyed “farmer” who believes environmental regulations don’t (or shouldn’t) apply to him.
The good guys – Detective Rolvaag and Mick – are straight arrows, strong, and silent.
They have their own quirks, of course – Rolvaag has two pet pythons, and Mick has been married six times – but they are definitely good guys.
I didn't like or care about any of the characters (except for Tool, he was interesting).
Chaz and Joey are caricatures of unlikable people.
Because I didn't care about them I found the whole set up a waste of my time and stretching incredulity.
I felt nostalgic for the South Florida of my youth as I was reading it (I haven't lived in Miami since 1986).But that wasn't enough to keep me in this book.
Life is too short, and I have too many books I want to read to waste this much time on something I hate doing.
A botched murder attempt by a self absorbed, fairly clever and fraudulent biologist husband of his far more clever and resourceful wife leads to a plot of revenge from "beyond the grave".
By the time the book ended, I didn't care much for what happened to the characters.
The character of Chaz Porrone, the naughty husband, became less interesting as the book progressed.
In the end, I was disappointed hoping that he had been messed with on a much greater scale.The book was occasionally funny.
Maybe it didn't register in the audiobook and would be funnier when read.In the end, a great idea with average execution.

this guy had a great plot for a book, but wasted my time writing it. the whole thing was a masturbatory exercise in stereotyping and - ready to be shocked? - creating a baseless, boring romance between a gruff older cop and a gorgeous younger woman. i was completely underwhelmed by this novel and will be steering clear of his other books.
Plane-ride perfection.
Actually, my favorite character was Tool, the hirsute hit man.
In Skinny Dip, we find Chaz (who'd rather be golfing than puttering around the "hot, buggy, funky-smelling and treacherous" reaches of nature) falsifying water samples to help Hammernut turn the 'Glades into "God's septic tank." That scheme, though, is endangered not just by Joey's sudden disappearance, but by the suspicions of a python-loving police detective and Chaz's own outstanding inability to tame his Viagra-enhanced tumescence.
Even by assigning Chaz a baby-sitter--the hulking, hirsute, and painkiller-addicted Tool--Hammernut can't keep his pet biologist out of trouble.
As Joey and Stranahan unfold their revenge plot, and Tool's conscience grows in competition with Chaz's ego, the reader can only marvel at the extent of the train wreck ahead.
