https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2701593-along-the-road-notes-and-essays-of-a-tourist
I picked up this book at a used books store, and was intrigued by the theme of this collection of essays- travel writing in the 1920s.
Part 1 of the collection is quite interesting mainly because of the quaint nature of travelling at the time.
Indeed, any volume of European travels, however dull,, is interesting provided it be written before the age of railways and Ruskin."(I wish it was true about Huxley’s own collection)"Nature worship increases in an exact ratio with distance from the Mediterranean.
Reading and travelling, they say, broaden the mind, stimulate the imagination, are a liberal education.
These are specious arguments; but nobody is very much impressed by them for though it may be quite true that, for certain people, desultory reading and aimless travelling are richly educative, it is not for that reason that most true readers and travellers born indulge their tastes.
A man might spend his life in trains and restaurants and know nothing of humanity at the end.
Though there are some gems in it and some really interesting stories as you'd expect from Huxley, some bits are rather dull. The most exciting bits to me were the ones talking about the traveller person, and some of the travel stories that were also vivid. It's an easy and overall enjoyable read so I'd still recommend it.
He's actually a lot better than most of his contemporaries in this regard, but the essay on popular music, in particular, is made thoroughly repulsive by his prejudice and ignorance of the subject ('negro' and Italian music are vulgarly sexual, popular music is a vulgar and trivialized derivation from 'serious' music, jazz is primitive thumping, etc.)If you like Huxley but aren't a big fan, give this one a miss.
If you want to read a truly fine essayist of Huxley's generation, I recommend George Orwell.
And there are any number of better contemporary travel writers, from the obvious (Graham Greene) to the exotic (Robert Byron).
"L'autenticitat a la llarga sempre triomfa. Però en un moment donat la majoria de la gent, si no arriba a preferir clarament la falsificació al que és real, si més no ho troba igual de bo."
good insights on how to be a good traveler.
