https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/101509.Nectar_in_a_Sieve
Despite the increase of so many feeding mouths, Nathan and Rukmani somehow manages to feed their sons and daughter, give a fulfilling life, even they are challenged all the way with poverty, drought and flood, sacrifice their farm and fight lots of battles, and through out the whole journey, Rukmani stands tall and strong shoulder-to-shoulder with her husband until the very end.There are so many stories that highlight an India's life right after the independence but only a few stand out, just like, Nectar in a Sieve is one such ground breaking classic Indian literature that brings out the basic and simple life of a farmer somewhere rural in South India.
Oh, man, talk about grimsville!! I think I'll just run along now and lay my head on that old railroad track! These characters are just born to suffer and endure and work their tails off and all for what? Nothing, because they get screwed every time they start to get some hope back. Screwed either by Mother Nature or by their fellow human beings. Imagine seeing your child die from starvation and feeling relieved because you won't have to watch him suffer anymore!Grimmest of all is that there are people all over the world right now living similar lives.
In some respects, Providence was kind to her; in many others cruel.But it would spoil the book to tell Rukmani’s tale before you read it.
Very soon into the book, what becomes obvious is that it doesn’t matter so much what happens to Rukmani or her family.
What profit to bewail that which has always been and cannot change?’Rukmani was a survivor; she knew the secret of life was to endure—patiently, quietly, lovingly.Nectar in a Sieve is a haunting story of the sweetness of life running out as quickly as its title.****dedicated to my partner in reading this, Melissa
Beautiful and touching, Nectar in a Sieve follows a young Rukmani who is married to Nathan, a tenant farmer, when she is only twelve.
I had one minor issue with this book...that is that there wasn't more.The story should be depressing because the family has to scrape by to survive.
Of course, neither did Rukmani, which was perhaps common for a woman in her situation, but I wanted to know how their lives turned out.
In any case, a story that should have been depressing was touching.
They never really had a break, but I felt like they were happy in their own way.
'Sometimes at night I think that my husband is with me again, coming gently through the mists, and we are tranquil together," begins Rukmani as she takes the reader into her life, the rare ups and several downs of it as she reminisces the years following her marriage to Nathan, a poor tenant farmer.
The aura of this book is that of gloom and depression, they are depressed when they do not have children, they are upset when they have too many children to feed and the reader is upset because life is so unfair for this couple.
"Work without hope draws nectar in a sieve,and hope without an object cannot live." Coleridge Written in 1954 this million-copy bestseller with a afterward by Thrity Umrigar is the story of Rukmani a very young girl whose father marries her off to Nathan an unknown farmer in rural India.
Reminiscent of Pearl S Buck's The Good Earth in its theme featuring a strong woman who spends her life battling adversity and poverty while trying to best care for the ones she loves.
Cited as a favorite book by my friend Sharon , a retired English teacher who " knows her stuff." 4 stars
The story is compelling and full of interesting details, but I couldn't help feeling there was something unreal and stilted about it. Strangely enough, the section set in the city seemed more felt and was more believable to me, although it was filled with unexpected and strange turns of events. (view spoiler)[Sad: Ira's parents condemn her for unwillingly resorting to sex work to save herself and her infant brother from starvationSad: The landowner's agent demands payment when the harvest fails due to the too-late monsoonHappy: The protagonist and her husband love and value each other (hide spoiler)]
Man alive !Apart from the book 'Untouchable', also set in India, I do not believe I have read a more dismal, depressing and hopeless book.
Grrrrrrrr to myself ), I know nothing of true starvation, nothing what the characters endure with no anger or bitterness.I can not say this is a 'wonderful' book because it is so sad and grim, but I loved it just the same and want to see if my library has any other titles by this author who died in the 1980s.
Each page in this book depicts the sufferings faced by a family (let's say a group of people, a village or surrounding as a whole).
Each character in this book suffers a lot.
Still the author turns the plot optimistic making the people around the main characters suffer more than them.
Simply stating set some higher-valued goals or you will regret later.A Few After Thoughts:A question from this book which made me think a lot.
"Do you think spiritual grace comes from being in want, or from suffering?" Let's state the question this way.
Because suffering boosts up our state of being in want.
The only inspiration one could draw from this is to hate to hate economic development, hate outsiders, or become determined to not be like these people, who can't or won't do anything to prevent ruin.
Unfortunately in this desperation there is also little sense of love or bonding, such that the reader can only understand that it is terrible for people to be torn apart or turned against each other, rather than feel it as they read.
The real strength of the book is its exotic moments, like people feasting on a swarm of locusts, which give us something we don't have and can't get from a host of other socially conscious, xenophobic and/or historical novels.
This was required reading for me in high school. I just adored it. So well written, powerful and emotional. It is still one of my favorite books after all these years. I consider it a must read.
The author, born in the highest caste in India but lived mainly in England, writes about the tale of a family's struggles with poverty and globalization.
I started to get the feeling that this could be somewhat exaggerated to back the author's point that globalization was negative to the poor.
Although  Nectar in a Sieve brought a cool perspective on culture to the table, I felt that the chain of extremely negative events made me not even want to continue as I helplessly watched as the characters' lives lead to absolutely nothing.
Meh. Whatever. The husband dies. Who cares. He cheated on her a zillion years ago and I won't forgive him. The End.
Markandaya times the novel in this time of change in a community that solely thrives on outcome of monsoon season.
The society as a whole fails these rural communities that has no infrastructure to fall back on as they rely completely on a successful monsoon.
Markandaya exposes the culture of child marriage, dowry, zamindari system (leasing land for farming) and lack of education in poverty stricken areas.Its been more than seventy years since this novel came out but the story is still fresh and relevant to this day and age.
This book was basically the diary of the main character, Rukmani. From the get go the emotions were raw and real. This is a very realistic story that follows the life of Rukmani and her struggles throughout it. Anyone who likes autobiographies would enjoy reading this book.
The back cover honestly doesn't do it justice. It was soooooooo good!
Throughout the novel, Rukmani, her husband Nathan, and their children, oppose the effects of globalization and fight the bounds of society, always trying to make their lives better.
Struggling against their tightly bound resources and opportunity, Ruku and Nathan see their children born, dead, prostituted, and working.
It creates situations unbearable for the reader, unexpected, and unwelcome in Ruku and Nathan’s lives.
Despite the clear assets of writing style and characterization, Nectar in a Sieve, to my biased opinion was very saddening and frustrating to read.
The heroine, Rukmani, is a sort of female Wang Lung, who narrates the rise and fall of her family as India grows and changes around them.The story begins with Rukmani remembering her past, already advanced and age and living without her husband and sons.
It is a story of struggle, but also of joy in the simplicities of life, as the characters are happiest when our most mundane needs of sustenance and companionship are met.But the story is not only the biography of a family, it is also a commentary on the realities of change and the impact of modernization.
Nectar in a Sieve, written by Kamala Markandaya, is a wonderful novel that lets the reader peek inside the heart of Indian culture.
Nectar in a Sieve follows the life of an average lower-class Indian, looking at the effects of globalization and the conflict between traditional and rural India.
Markandaya simply takes the problems of India (drought, monsoon, loss of tradition) and applies them to her fictional characters.
Also, the Indian views and culture was clearly seen through the events that the characters experienced and their thoughts and feelings, and it was wonderful to learn about it.
One of the best readings on colonial India.
Told from the POV of a village woman from the day of her marriage until late in her life.
Students seem to really enjoy the straight forward and simple narrative.
I first read this as part of my junior english class in 1995, thanks Mrs. Thomson.
It has to be the first female protagonist that I actually like to read about.
I read the book in two nights, seven days ahead of schedule.
I would also have to say that the relationship between Irrawady and her parents makes for a great discussion about parents with kids who make bad decisions.
I found this to be beautifully written, with characters that were believable and admirable. I always appreciate the opportunity to see life from the honest viewpoint of another culture. This book was a firm reminder of how impossibly difficult life is for so many people.
The best book I have ever read, hands down, and I have read many 1000s of books. I have no connection to this author whatsoever, I just happened to love her writing. I also read Handful of Rice, which was also very good, but this one was the best!
I really disliked this book.
He was such a good husband and loved Rukmani so much, their relationships was so admirable till the end...how he stuck with her through sticks and stones and how she was always there to shield him from those sharp stones; they are always there for each other in their ailing starving, hopeless moments.The one thing that is very clear in this novel - rather in the character Rukmani and her family - is Hope: it's in their hearts, their hut, their relations, in religion, in their beliefs, in their paddy field, in the rice grains, in their harvests, in their festivals, in their adjusts to change, in their children, in their futures and even in the present, in the weather....in all the nature that surrounds them - the Mother Earth they laid their lives to, is their one and only home.The tragically difficult struggle filled life the farmers or the low classes in India live, is very powerfully brought to light and one can only sympathize with the novel's characters.
I truly feel it is important to walk in another's shoes for a little while, and what a better way to do that than in a book?
I do not think or react in the way the protagonist does, and I learned much from the book.
By book two, I was so grateful to see her do this too, though on a smaller scale.
It is a story that challenges the virtues and ambitions of the modern urban society, and takes a deep look at the impact on people who don't really have a say in the direction the world is moving in.
But it was the early part of the book that really had an impact on me - impossible to believe that such a simple life, devoid of ambition could mean happiness, and yet the characters are really happy - you could argue that the happiness came from ignorance, but maybe everyone's happiness does.
I thought I had finished my freshman year reading list earlier this year until this work surfaced at a library sale. While it was an award winning book in 1955, it didn't do much for me in 1971, and it didn't do all that much now. This is described as one woman's struggle for survival in India. To me it is one woman's struggle with misfortune some inflicted by her parents, some by her children, some by her husband and yet more by the world around her. Not an overwhelming work in my mind.
Read during my #lostinthewoodsreadathon! Course required reading.
The strength of the human spirit shines through this heartbreaking story. Perhaps it is meant to open hearts to understanding, perhaps to quiet complaints from we who have so much or maybe inspiration that we truly can overcome anything.
I originally had no idea what this book was about before reading it, so I had zero expectation aside from the line on the cover saying, "very moving." After 50 pages, I still was not quite sure; I gathered it follows a struggling Indian family during British colonization.
But as the book continues, the purpose of the story becomes clear: Markandaya has a palpable distaste for her characters and their petty existence; consequently, she enjoys causing them great suffering while offering a mild commentary on British colonization.
I do not require a happy ending, but there is no point in the novel where hope seems justified, as nothing in this story goes well, ever.
