https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/347752.The_Philadelphia_Story
My wife was just cast as Tracy Lord in a community theatre production, so I've been reading the play.
That said, it also makes me appreciate Katharine Hepburn, Cary Grant, and Jimmy Stewart even more.
Playwright Philip Barry (who also wrote another great play adapted into a Hepburn/Grant film, Holiday) often hints at facts about his characters that really aren't demonstrated by anything they actually say in the script.
And yet in the film, they very definitely do.
Anyway, this has me resolved to read more plays.
Having grown up in suburban Philadelphia and having seen the film many times (it’s a household favorite), I wanted to read the original play.
Much of the script of the film is word for word from the play which is nice to see, though there are certain characters excised from the film and tweaks to the plot as a result.
Partially due to the chemistry of the actors, partially to the careful reallocation of story points and scenes (and partially, perhaps, due to my love of the film which I saw first), I think that the Tracy-Dexter relationship comes off more believably on film than in the play.
The movie is way better, but I might be biased because I've seen it so many times
I'm giving this four stars because I truly love the movie and would love to see a production of it.
Such a fun romantic and comedic romp.
I really identify with Tracy.
We need to start being able to accept mistakes as a positive part of us for human growth.
There are too many stage directions that are not necessary.
If I were to direct it I would use maybe a quarter of them.
I do get that it was the original way the production was, but made it confusing.
I can't wait to watch the movie again.
I'm more of a 3.5 at the moment, but I'll give it the benefit of the doubt.
I like many things about this play, but the comedy hasn't aged flawlessly.
Some of what should be jokes fall flat to my modern eye; this is partially due to my own lack of a context for the humor and references, but is also due to us no longer finding it funny to, say, hint at hitting your wife.
There might be one subplot too many, but it still moves quickly enough most of the time.
All in all, it's enjoyable and kind of romantic, so I approve.
The film version of The Philadelphia Story is one of my all-time favorite films.
This is the third time I’ve read the play (the first being in high school after trying to track down public-school-appropriate plays with strong female characters – it’s harder than you’d think).
I still like the play, but the tweaks they made to the film – plus the talent of the three leads – makes the movie into something much bigger, much more rare than the play alone.
Oh, the play is good … but this is one of those rare times when I say skip the play and see the movie.
I enjoy reading Dexter’s dialogue most; it really “pops” off the page.
The plot is not my favorite (it’s just sort of odd and a little confusing), but overall, I enjoyed the play.
I have seen the movie with Katherine Hepburn, and I enjoyed it immensely.
I’m sure I would have felt the same thing reading the play if I hadn’t already seen the movie.
Even though this isn’t a favorite play, I would really enjoy being involved in a production of it; there’s a lot of fun things to do.
A witty play marred by some backwards misogyny, even for the thirties. Mr Lord is a hardcore scumbag and we're supposed to think Tracy is a frigid bitch for not wanting him at her wedding. No thanks. I also don't love how under-drawn the relationship between Tracy and Dexter is, when the dialogue more thoroughly supports a Mike and Tracy ending. Ah, well. Not the best thirties romcom, but propped up by a stellar cast in the film version.
I was crazy enough to read this play which contains nothing that cannot be found in the wonderful movie starring Jimmy Stewart, Cary Grant and Katherine Hepburn.The Philadelphia Story is of course quite odious. Its basic message is that money isn't everything you also need breeding. Social climbers with neither are the lowest of the low. Artists belong to a lower level of humanity than those with money and breeding provided that they respect their social betters.
Absolutely hysterical; this is my favorite movie and now my favorite play -- although I did note one or two typos, it doesn't take away from the story or some of my absolute favorite lines. "Uncle Willy is around in the pantry doing weird and wonderful things." "I have feet made of clay made of clay - did you know? Goo' Night' sleep well, little man."
Having loved the current production of High Society at The Old Vic in London, I've been catching up on the film versions, and now the original play. An interesting story, with engaging characters and moments of real humour. And I did enjoy the echoes of Emma's story in Tracy's.
The dialogue is enriched with the colloquial of the era. With TPS, Barry demonstrates his gift of high comedic-style of writing. I enjoyed reading the play much more than I did watching the movie adaption.
I haven't seen the film, so the script was my first experience with this story. There were a couple of confusing things...mainly keeping track of who was talking about whom and why, but the characters are delightful! I'm hoping to audition for the Katherine Hepburn role.
Didn't care for this plot, but I loved the witty dialogue.
I was not a fan of the main character.
Delightful.
Rich people problems
Pretty silly story that is not really all that funny.
I loved the movie, which was very faithfully taken from the play. Witty writing!
Summer reading for high school
Sure, a film with Cary Grant, Katherine Hepburn, and Jimmy Stewart is going to be good, but the script remains fabulous without them. So funny and earnest.
Dinah Lord, 2012
Not nearly as snappily good as the film, expanding Dexter's role for the film made an enormous difference.
