https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/351211.The_Disorderly_Knights
It took me over a month to work my way through this third novel in Dorothy Dunnett's challenging Lymond series.
This is still a challenging read, however, with lots of different personalities to keep track of, political and family conflicts to understand, and layers of complexity and deception to unravel.
Disorderly Knights  is the third book in the series the Lymond Chronicles.
Lymond after his french court insanity in  Queen's Play  leaves to help the Knights of Malta defend their home from the upcoming evasion of their mortal enemy, the Turks.
I have never once read a book that mentioned Malta.
This book incorporates the Knights of Malta.
If you didn't know all of Dorothy Dunnett's novels need commitment, and the time to really imagine what is happening.
That is how amazing of a writer Dorothy Dunnett is, and she must of been exhausted writing about Lymond and his adventures.
The third outing of Francis Crawford of Lymond takes him to Malta, last refuge of the once powerful Order of the Knights Hospitaliers, now torn apart by internal struggles mirroring the larger conflict in Europe between the powerful monarchs of Spain, France, England, Germany (Heir to the holy Roman Empire), the Italian city-states and the Papacy.
Both the Queen Dowager and the Knights of Malta plot to remove Lymond from the command of the company and to appropriate the men for their own interests.In this way the novel weaves together the personal struggle between Lymond and his archenemy with the larger issues of Europe in its moment of transition from small barons to centralized power.
ok here is my review for this bookin helpful illustrated form
On one hand, I am amazed that Dunnett is able to so completely enthrall a jaded reader such as myself; and yes, pretentious though that may sound, I feel qualified to say so because I've read so many damn books, and it gets harder and harder to completely suck me in, to knock me onto my butt with something I've never seen or felt or been made to feel before.
Interestingly, the reader gets put in the same position.+ Jerott Blyth is pretty cool, but I have a feeling he becomes a fuller character in later books, since the treatment of the tragic death of his fiancee is mentioned about three times and then is dropped completely in favor of Antics.
I liked this third book the best so far, probably because I found it the easiest to follow in terms of the history and politics of the time.
In every book, she manages to make you absolutely hate the hero, and that takes some doing: we’re conditioned to like the protagonist.
But in every book, she still manages to make me despise the hero and love him all over again by the end.
If you don’t like it at first, please stick with it and give it a good, long chance; it’s worth it!
Oh my god!
What a book!
There's only one problem!
Now I've gotta read Pawn in Frankincense!
And I'm already dreading it all being over!Dunnett spins a wonderful, intricate, suspenseful plot.
Sometimes she makes me laugh, sometimes she makes me look up words, but always she entertains me.
:)This series has made me fall in love with the characters over time.
The depth of character building is phenomenal.
The plotting is sine qua non.
The world building is impeccable.
Just read them.
The The Dorothy Dunnett Companion is very helpful to those of us who can't just identify quotes and French off the top of our heads.
Every book you look guilty as hell of whatever crimes most have all of Scotland/France/Malta/Wherever up in arms, and every book you turn out to be, well, I'm trying not to spoil anything here, but there are three more books in this series, so certain truths are probably pretty evident, even to the kinds of people you're so very, very good at fooling...The Disorderly Knights, the third in the great Dorothy Dunnet's great Lymond Chronicles, broadens the geographic, political and moral scope of our favorite Renaissance bad boy considerably.
Third installment of this very excellent historical series. This book introduces a villan almost as compelling and mesmerisisng as Francis Lymond himself.Can't add much more than what other readers have already stated. These books are lengthy and have quite convoluted plots but the characters and their motives are wonderful and engaging reading. Wonderful author and simply a top notch series
Dunnett always toys with you and your expectation of where the plot is going. Loved it.
As Dunnett slowly peels back the layers of her story, the reader is taken from Malta to embattled Tripoli and then back again to Scotland as Francis intrigues to discover Graham's hidden agendas.
Dunnett is also very subtle (sometimes too much so!) and you do have to wait until the very end when all is revealed during a heart stopping sword fight in an Edinburgh cathedral, and a big surprise for Francis that will have you scrambling for the next book in the series, Pawn in Frankincense: Fourth in the Legendary Lymond Chronicles.
Complicated, like all her books. She has no tolerance for lazy readers, and the ending! I have to find the next book right now!
Just when I think I’ve read all the really good stuff out there, I discover a series like this one.
Among the men being trained are a group of refugee Knights of Malta, led by Sir Graham Malett, whose openly stated goal is to recruit the humanist Crawford into his religious order.I won’t even attempt to describe the plot because the slightest spoiler would be ruinous to the intense suspense.
I miss books and good verse and decent talk.

His decision to go is definitely not in any way influenced the fact that a certain Oonagh O Dwyer has taken up residence on the nearby Island of Gozo.Throughout the early part of the book I feel Lymond is like a frustrating shadow – always somewhere else – his story told, as usual, though someone else eyes, but we seem more distant from the action and the sparkling wit than in previous books.
The author's skill is such that I hardly notice the writing, the way she leads us into this trap, this is fiction after all, but the emotion is visceral.This book is wonderfully well written, intelligent, shocking and irreverent – the author is in complete control at all times.
I deducted a star just because (view spoiler)[a lot of the conflict here turned on the supposed chastity or lack thereof of a female character, which always makes me uncomfortable no matter how villainous that character might be or how consistent it might be with the time period the book depicts.
(hide spoiler)] That said, nobody could ever accuse Dunnett of not loving all her other magnificent female characters (Oonagh!
There will be incidents that seem to be overexplained and narrated, which once again, at the end prove necessary for you to believe in why our "man" is a psychopath.The historical aspects are beautifully done as always by Dunnett: the insidious infighting of the Spanish & French that weakens and destroys the St John Templars of Malta, the unrest within the Arabic world as the Ottomans gain power & territory, and the intrigue that surrounds the Scottish court as this small country is being played with master players of the French & English royalty - are juggled and captured in a way that entertains AND instructs.So in construction we have the scene set in the shorter 1st two parts, along with a big slab of history; in the final longest Part, we are reading a mystery.
I knew, from Game of Kings and Queen’s Play, that Dorothy had produced the hero to end all heroes (despite a few definite character flaws and a sometimes questionable set of morals, we love Lymond, don’t we?) – but in Disorderly Knights she also hands us the villain to end all villains.
Seriously amazing.
This might have to do with it involving more familiar characters and thus requiring less confusing set up than the previous two.
These books are wonderful and really reward close reading.
The historical details are amazing.
What really pulls the books, though, are the amazing characters.
Phillipa is wonderful, Oonagh is one tough cookie and the Scotts continue to be lovable.
The fact that the book can be full of so many characters that it makes my brain hurt, and yet they all manage to feel real and well defined is amazing.
Dunnett remains the only author I've read in the last ten years whose books make me repeatedly exclaim, laugh and gasp aloud.
I found this the least gripping of the Lymond chronicles so far, and it's taken me 6 weeks to read it--too much exposition of the "they went here, they went there, this and this and this happened" type, but it still had wonderful jaw-dropping moments.
Like when Gabriel's shirt gets ripped off and we discover that HE TOO is scarred with HIS SISTER'S MARK (BLEH!!
BLEH!!) or the heart-stopping paragraph when he describes in shiveringly graphic detail what his plans are for Lymond's son (BLEH!!!!).I like it that mousy 13-year-old Philippa is turning into a hero.
I jumped in at the middle of the Lymond Chronicles series with this book, my first DD read.
I had to take it slow, as the vocabulary was challenging, the plot rather complex and detailed, and the war accoutrements unfamiliar.
This is a substantial piece of writing that requires your full attention, and in return you garner history, full throttled action, colorful geography, and mind boggling plot twists.
This is not my typical genre, but the adventures of the Scottish Lymond, a brilliant and enigmatic 16th century mercenary, captured my imagination and provided me with a pleasantly challenging summer read.

Dunnett provides the most audacious action set- pieces (including the best duel I’ve ever read in The Game of Kings), breathtakingly exciting plot twists, as well as extremely witty dialogue and a brilliant sense of time and place.
(hide spoiler)]It might be a while before I read the next in the Lymond Chronicles as they are rich, intermittently indigestible fare.
Although I am thoroughly enjoying the Lymond Chronicles so far, this third book in the series struck me as having more difficulties in structure than the previous two (I am a first-time reader, so don't have the luxury of knowing how it all turns out in the end).
His mission is challenged by the presence of the charismatic Gabriel, a Knight of the Order, whose piety, gentleness and tolerance conceal an intellect as sharp and ambitious as Lymond's own.I was struck by the fact that here, as in "The Game of Kings", we are shown what happens without really understanding it until the end.
This series continues to get better with each book. And darker. Much darker. Dunnett continues to shock me at the end of each book with the intricate plot and non-stop twists present in this story. Long battles, massive betrayals, utter depravity and fascinating characters. ⚔⚔
This series continues to get better with each book. And darker. Much darker. Dunnett continues to shock me at the end of each book with the intricate plot and non-stop twists present in this story. Long battles, massive betrayals, utter depravity and fascinating characters. ⚔️⚔️
The beautiful landscape of Malta, Tripoli, Gozo is the setting for the meeting with an astonishing new character, Sir Graham Red Mallett, and you better remember his name.Back to Scotland, where Lymond engages in building his own superb mega elite army, and the spyral down begins again.
You get to really hate this part.
I mean HATE IT.
You even get to hate Lymond.
And this huge, heart breaking ending, which sets in motion events for the next book.
Maybe I should note that in a rare treat, I got to guess the ending, and even then, it was magnificent!
I only hav e one word of any relevance: more!(view spoiler)[That might nake me a terrible person (it probablt does, that's alright with me) but I was okay with ditching the baby since Lymnd can't be sure until he finds him, whether his son is still alive or even rral.
Kind of didn't enjoy Philippa giving Gabriel this chance iof escape.
What kind of freak do you suppose I am?
I know you wouldn’t think so, but he is thoroughly upset by TE’s death; and when Francis is troubled he doesn’t show it, he just goes and makes life wretched for somebody.”
Looking down the list of reviews I wondered what the proportion of female to male readership is for these books.
I thought about it too when I picked up this book.
It's been a long time since I read any historical fiction, and what I was really expecting was a sappy romance I wouldn't pursue very far.
The prose is often convoluted and the meaning not always explicit, so sometimes re-reading a passage is necessary to tease out the implications, but this is not something I mind doing.
I can't say I will read any more books in this series, but I enjoyed this one.
The beginning is a little slow, but it soon picks up pace, moving from Malta to north Africa to France to Scotland, all while Dunnett manages to juggle characters and plotlines with a dexterity that astounds.
It all should descend to farce and melodrama, especially given some of Lymond's propensities and characteristics, but the astounding thing is that it doesn't.The twist at the end is telegraphed perhaps a little soon, even if only subtly--Lymond is painted with so black a brush that you know it can't be true.

