https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10083786-within-a-budding-grove-part-2
And when the curtains were finally parted towards noon, it was as if they opened on a theatre setting for a play called 'Les Vacances à Balbec', the sea making a spectacular backdrop to the action on the promenade stage.
We remember the Tansonville gardens, the Vinteuil house near Combray, Mme Swann's house in Paris, the children playing in the Champs Élysée gardens, and always, the narrator longing to have a role to play in every scene.And because he spends so much time observing rather than acting, it is as an observer that he excels, and more and more with every stage of his young life.
In this, the second part of In the Shadow of Young Girls in Flower, Marcel travels to Balbec with his grandmother, and his arrival brings with it a string of disappointments.Marcel had built up great expectations for both a church in Balbec and the ocean itself, and both, as he arrives and sees them, turn out to be quite different from what he expected.
The subject of habit turns up several times over the course of the entire work, and habit is generally a good thing, it orders our surroundings, it makes the new feel like home after a few days.
I think this would be impossible to recommend to anybody who is not interested in philosophy or French history or culture, or reading books simply because they are regarded as classics. The unusual writing style might be of interest to aspiring authors, or those studying literature, but that's about it. It's a very difficult book to recommend on it's own merits.
He manages to invite himself to tea regularly at the Swann’s, “playing” with Gilberte takes a turn for the sensual, he is once again disappointed by reality as compared to his imagination when he meets the writer Bergotte, and his admiration for Gilberte’s beautiful mother grows.
Madame Swann’s beauty and grace remain fond remembrances.Part II: Place-Names: The PlaceSome two years after the Gilberte Debacle, the Narrator’s grandmother drags him to the seaside resort of Balbec for the summer.
Mme de Villeparisis takes them on rides through the countryside and talks about all the famous artists she knows, the Narrator meets just about every rich/aristocratic person in Balbec and at least two of Madame Swann’s lovers.
I read this in English due to it being a gift and then of course the beautiful trnaslation of G.K.SCOTT MONCIREFF AND TERENCE KILMARTIN by the Modern Library.
I'm three fourths, and it is an impressionistic ancient film of pastel images of mind and memory, being truly drunk & lost in time, a sort of limbo, really pleasing, bring in a romance phantaste and a little ghostly, if someone picked up on that, but the narration doesn't let you stop, the long long phrases carry you through and make landmarks on your soul, and at least myself I never get lost, different to Joyce in both Ulysses and Finnegans, which I admire more in a linguistic manner.
I hope to make it to the whole Search for Lost Time volumes while I have time,BestFed
This is a different kind of book than most of us are used to reading.
One must give up the idea of finishing it this weekend or next or the weekend after that.
Only once in a while we come to a break--I mean once in hundreds and hundreds of pages, and we can put it down to catch up on the accumulated stack of New Yorkers or whatever.
And, if you resist hurrying, you find that you do understand and you do get drawn into this alternate existence, and Paris and Combray and Balbec are yours.
A masterful and beautiful book, much easier and more pleasant to read than Swann's Way, not like that dark book in that sense, but really Proust starting to come into his own with the complex sentence structures he is known for. Makes sense that it won the prize. I finished this a few years ago and am tempted to read it again having just finished the Guermantes Way, a very different but also rich and complex book.
And there seems to be descriptions of it well before this, back to the days of Homer and early Christian writers; but it was associated with the occult, past lives and such, so it was viewed with a certain wariness.---- this is when the mind stops, the usually incessant inner chatter has receded, and young Marcel is present with the sceneAaah, this is great, thank you – I felt a little whoosh going through my head on reading this – I let go of trying to “understand”, and instead in some way embraced “recognizing”, if that makes sense.There’s also a passage that follows on from the three trees - the carriage going up to the crest of a hill – and he then goes on to describe, in a similar way, how this experience in that landscape goes on echoing through his life, when he traverses similar hills, or smells certain smells, or for any number of triggers and sensations...
Jeg forundres dog jævnligt over det der foregår - hvad er det for et forhold han har til sin mormor?
Hvad er det dog for et liv de lever?
Sover til langt ud på formiddagen, hvilket dog delvist skyldes fortællerens svage helbred, går på visitter, fører de mærkeligste samtaler, hvor man oftest siger det modsatte af det man mener, er underlagt en social kodeks som der bruges meget tid på at forvalte, en masse snobberi, etc.
Der lægges ikke fingre i mellem, det er ikke særlig flatterende, og alligevel så elsker han dem jo!
Marcel is still very bourgeoisly ill.
Vapors!
Fits!
Inopportune swooning!
Gilberte Swann is clearly “that sort of woman” in training.
She’s making Marcel twitterpated.
So Marcel and his dear grandmama remove to the beach at Balbec.
Promenade strolling!
Dressing for dinner!
More strolling!
And at last, Marcel meets Albertine, the perfect anodyne to THOT Gilberte.
He longs to possess Albertine.
Glances!
Notes!
More stuff about hawthorn blossoms!
She’s fetchingly déshabillé, languorously draped across her bed.
He thinks one thing, but Albertine has another game afoot.
DENIED!It’s the perfect jumping off point for five more volumes and 6000 more pages.
Continuing where we left off, Marcel's infatuations have leapt from his mother, to Gilberte, and then Albertine. It is the story of a man discovering different kinds of love - maternal, lust, and friendship. With homosexual undertones, Within a Budding Grove further's Proust's sexual awakening and the maturity of his relationships.
I've enjoyed it since the beginning, yet I still felt that Swann's Way was more superior than this one.
However, the book changes drastically when he sees the band of girls by the beach.
Proust is one of the best authors who can zoom in on one moment in time, freeze it and intensify it.
He chooses moments that are haiku-like, but unlike the haiku he write profusely in the most beautiful prose, using abundant metaphors to describe a certain memory.
He's also the only author who could write such beautiful prose about the difficulty of getting up after an afternoon nap.
It's a beautiful beautiful book.
I'm starting to think that the best way to read Proust is as a book of quotations. There's lots of dry desert between moments of exquisite beauty in this. Took me a long time to slog through it, even with the help of Mr Rowe reading to me so well. Still, I do think that Proust makes you look at things differently and want to try to capture beauty in the ordinary things of everyday life - before the moment flits past and becomes memory.
Quite good--I wondered if I would want to tackle the whole series but believe I will.Two highlights of this book--after arriving at Balbec--are the comparisons of the "band of girls" to a garden of rose; and the social networks of the dining room to the rotating galaxies and orbiting planets.Light on plot, but intentionally so, Proust creates and interprets a delicious world to the reader.
Totally absorbing. His depth of vision is incredible as he continually diverges to liken his emotions and experiences to other situations and natural phenomenon.It is not an adventure book and is very deep but the prose is thrilling and encourages the reader to relate Proust's experiences to those of our own. Not a quick read but worth the investment of time.Now on to Part 3.
What can anyone say about the Proust books: In Search of Lost Time? True literature, classic, and must reads for any real bibliophile. Like Shakespeare and warm English beer, it can be a challenging task to undertake. I'm nearly half-way through the books and I find comfort knowing that are more ahead of me than behind me.
I loved listening to the first book in this series but was disappointed with the second which took up right where the first left off and was just too much the same--same boy with the same obsessions in the same place, with all the same characters doing the same things. I may come back to it later or may move on to another book by Proust where the narrator is already an adult.
The society Proust describes is even more narcissistic than he - if that is possible. But this world is pictured in such detail, it is possible to feel yourself in this stiff hotel in balbec, watching the staff and guests dance their social dance.
Yes, Proust is difficult, recondite, long-winded and dense. But there's no one else like him for sensual and psychological penetration (well, perhaps only Joyce) and his discursions on young love pierced my heart. In the end he is very moving.
This volume seemed more tedious than the first one. I still plan to complete the series but I'm taking a break and listening to something else before continuing on.
As every other part this one is also completely Proustian...Proust is the secret of mental energy...
Ultimately it's hard to rate this until I finish the entire body of work. The overall impression is that if you put a million monkeys on a million therapists' couches this is what you'd get.
convincing in its descriptions of doubt and going against an inner grain of truth to achieve pleasure. Got somewhat tired of the agonies of a tormented mind. Still worthwhile the effort.
Ce livre est difficile d'accès, j'ai relu les 80 premières pages plusieurs fois. Mais une fois que le lecteur est dedans, c'est un pur bonheur!
It's too bad we no longer live in an age when it's cool to write this way. Something is missed.
Superb observation and imagination!
Someone said, "I read half the book and gave it three stars on Goodreads, but I'm keeping still the rest on the five foot shelf."
